( 26l > 'preface. QE VERAL full and accurate defer!ptions of the mufcles have af- ready been publiflied. But their fize and prolixity have ren- dered them of lefs value to the dilTeftor than the fmall treatife of Dr Douglas, which was firft publiflied about the beginning of this century; and fince that time has undergone various impreflions, without receiving any improvement, excepting the addition of the fynonyma from Albinus. It is therefore prefumed, that a limple and concife defeription of the mufcles, which fliould contain all the improvements of the moderns, is ftill wanting. To clafs the mufcles according to their ufes, may do very well in I a large work, or in deferibing their compound adlions : But this me- thod can never anfwer the purpofes of dilTedlion. To remedy this inconvenience, the mufcles in the following Treatife are deferibed chiefly as they appear in dilTecfting the human body. The deferibing ofthe mufcles according to their origins and infer- tions prevents much circumlocution. This is the method purfued by Dr Douglas; and wherever his deferiptions feemed tolerably ac- curate, they have been followed with little alteration. But Dr Douglas’s book is peculiarly defeftivfe =with regard to the mufcles of the abdomen, back, and neck: in deferibing thefe, therefore the method of Albinus has been preferred. Thofe who have not opportunity, or are averfe from undergo- ing the labour of diflefting, may deiive conlidcrable advantages fiom comparing the deferiptions now given with the beautiful and corredl tables of Albinus; and, to facilitate ftill more the ftudy of thefe intricate organs, I have caufed eight of Albinus’s tables to- be publiflied, with concife explanations, on a fmall fcale adapted for the pocket. - i For the benefit of thofe who wifli to examine the hiftory of the mufcles more minutely, the fynonyma of the beft authors are added ; and, for the fake of brevity, the compound adion of the mufcles, I and the origin and infertion of feveral inconflderable fibres, are o- mitted. The reader will obferve, that in general, the mufcles of one fide only are deferibed; becaufe all the mufcles of the body, with veiy few exceptions, have con’efpondent ones on the oppofite fide. A