Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 77 gan of hearing. Into the maftoicl procefs the (lerno-nia- ftoideus mufcle is inferted: and to its back part, where the furface is rough, the trachelo-maftoideus and part of the fplenius are fixed. About an inch farther forward, tlie fecond procefs begins to rife out from the bone ; and ha- ving its origin continued oblitjutly downwards and for- wards for fome way, it becomes fmaller, and is ftretched forwards to join \yith the os roalae-, they together forming ,tl\e,,bony jugum, under which the temporal mufcle pafles. Hence this procefs Ik^s been named zygomatic (J). Its up- 1, per edge has the ftrong aponeurofis of the temporal mufcle fixed into it; and its lower part gives rife to a fhare of the maffeter.— The fore-part of the bafe of this procefs is au oblong tubercle, which, in a recent fubjeft, is covered y'ith a fmooth poliflied cartilage, continued from that which lints the cavjty immediately behind this tubercle. •~r-From under the craggy paft of the os temporum, the third procefs (lands out obliquely; forw;\rds. The fliape •of it is generally faid to refemble the ancient Jlylus ferip- torius } and therefore it is called Jlylcidprocefs (c). Some autliofs (f) however contend, ; tliat it ought to be named flehid, front its being, more like a pillar. Several mufclcs have their origin from this procefs, and borrow one half of dieir name from it; as fyiQ-glffuSy JiyIo-f.yoideSy Jlylo- pharyngcus : a ligament of the os hyoides is fometimes fixed to it; and -another is extended from it to the inlide of the. artgle of the lower jaw. This procefs is often, even in adults, not. entirely oflil^ed, but is ligamentous at its root, and is fomttirae.s compofed*of two or three diflincl pieces. Round die root of it, efpecially at the forepart, there ((/) Paris, anfsE offiom temporum, olTa arcualia, paria, jugalia, conjugalia. (f) rpaiy««Ji), gjXa.offJ'i), TTKiiKipov, Os calaminum, fagittale, clavale, acuale calcar capitis. (/) Galen, Deufu part, lib, cap. 4.—Fallop. Obfetvi anat.