Part I. 62 OF THE SKELETON. the orbit to its bottom j -then naoutiting upon its inficle, it is continued by the root of the nofe down the internal part of the other orbit, and rifes up again on its outfide to the other canthus. It may be Iiere remarked, that there are fome interruptions of this future in the courfe 1 have,de- feribed ; for the bones are not every where contiguous, but are fepavated, to leave holes and apertures, as Ihall be men- tioned hereafter. The futures are one on each fide, being fhort and flanting from above obliquely downwards and back- wards, to join a procefs of the cheek bone to one of the temporal bones, which advance towards the face ; fo that the two procelles thus united, form a. fort of bridge or ju- gum, under which .the temporal mufcle pafles, on which account the procefl'es, and future joining them, have been called zygomatic. It mull be obferved, that the Indentations of the futures are not fo .ftrongly marked on the inlide as on the outfide of the cranium ; and fometimes the bones feem to be join- ed by a ftraight line : Nay, in fome Ikulls, the internal fu- face is found entire, while, the futures are ixianifefl; with- out; which may poflibly be owing to the lefs extent of thei' concave than of the convex furface of the cranium, where- by the fibres of the internal fide would be llretched far- ther out at the edges of the bones than the. exterior ones, if they were not refilled. The refinances are, the fibres of the oppofite bone, the parts within the dkiiil, ami the diploe,: the lall of which bein^ the weakell, the moft atl- vanced fibres or ferrae run into it, and leave the contigu- > OU3 edges equal, and more ready to unite; wlitreas the ferrae of tile external table have fpace enough for tiidr ad- mifiion between the .fibres of the oppofite bone, and therefore remain of the indented form, and are lefs liable to the con- cretion whereby the futures are obliterated {d).—By this mechanifm, (d) Hunall. Memoirss de I’acad dcs fciecccs, 1730. f