^3 Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. mechanlfm, there is no rifk of the fliarp points of the bones growing inwards* fince the external itrrx of each of the conjoined bones' red upon the internal fmooth-etiged table of the other ; and external forces applietl to thefe parts are ftrongly refifted, becaufoi the futures cannot yield, unlefs the ferrated edges of the one bone, and the plain internal plate of the other, are broken (e). The advantages of the futures of the cranium are,thefe ; i. That this capfula is more eafily formed and extended into-a fpherical figure, than if it had been one continued bone. 2. That the bones which are at fome diftance from each other at birth, might then yield, and allow to the head a ' change of fltape, accommodated to the paflage it is engaged in. Whence, in difficult parturition, the bones of the cranium, inftead of being only brought into contaft, are fometimes made to mount one upon the other. 3. It is alledged, that, through the futures there is a tran- fpiration of fteams from the brain, whicji was the old doc- trine ; or fome communication of the velTels without, and of thofe within the flcull, ilarger here than in any other part of 'ithe cranium, according to fome moderns; and therefore cucuphae, fomentations, cataplafms, cephalic plafters, blitters, are applied^i and iffues are eroded or cut in the head, at thofe places where the futures are longctt in forming, and where the coiine£lion of the bones is after- wards loofett, for the eyre of a phrenitis, mania, invete- rate headach, epilepfy, apoplexy^ and other difeafes of the head, "^flie favourers of-the doctrine jof ^tranfpiration, or communication of velTels at the futures, endeavour to fup- port It by obfervations of perfons fubjecil to headachs which caulfed death, ^from the futures being too clofcly united (f)i 4. jThat .the durai mater may be more firmly ifufpendeU by ‘/j jUf.if <TjI-ji, I:.. I'T-rol ii jt'i'dini ■ ttdi its Mcmpircs dc i’ncacl. des feiences, T72QJ j vd' (// Columb. <le re. anat. lib. i. cap. 5. Verduc. NouvcUc Oflco- logie, chap. 14. Dionis, Anat. 3. dcmonfl. des os.