z6 OF THE BONES Parti joined to other bones by an immoveable articulation, there are fmaller ones annexed, which afterwards become fcarce diflinguifliable from the fubftance of the bone itfclf. Thefe are called eptphyfes or appetidices {n). Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four of thofe appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, which are of a confi- derable thicknefs in children, but' by age become thinner, the offification proceeding fiom the end of the bone on one {ide, and from the epiphyfes on the otlier, till at laft, in adults, the place of their conjunflion can fcarcely be feen on the external furface ; and it is only fometimes that we can then fee any mark, of didindlion in the cancel!i (o). Several procefTes ('<■• g. trochanters of the thigh, fp'ine of the fcapula, &c.) have epiphyfes; and procefles frequently rife out from epiphyfes; for example, at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, 2cc. (/>). The epiphyfes are united chiefly to fuch bones as are de- (lined for frequent and violent motion ; and for this pur- pofe they are wifely framed of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to: For, by this means, the furface of contafl between the two bones of any articulation being increafed, their conjun£lion becomes firmer, and the mufcles infertod into them a£l with greater force by reafon of their .‘axes being further removed from the centre of motion. Thefe advantages miglit indeed have been obtained by the expanfion of the end of the bone itfeif to a thicknefs equal to that of the epiphyfes; but then the conflant feparation f)f new plates to form fo wide a cellular llruflure, muft have left the folid fidcs of the bones fo thin as to yield ea- fdy, either to the action of the mufcles fixed to them and paffing over them, to the weight leveral of them are obli- ged (/») Applantatio, aclditamentuni, adnafeentia, adnexum, perone. (e) Winfiow, Expcfition anatomique de corps humaiii, traitc t'es os fees, § ii6. (p) Vcfal. Dc human, corp. fabrica, lib. I, cap.