7* Chap. II BONES OFT HE HEAD. ftimulate the fenfihle membranes j from which alfo there would be fuch a conftant flow of glairy mucus, as would retard, if not hinder a cure, and Would make the fore de- generate into an incurable fiftula. Befides, as it would be altnoft impoflible in this cafe to prevent the air, pafling through the nofe, from having conftant accefs to the dura mater or brain; fuch a corruption would be brought on thefe parts as would be attended with great danger. Farther, in refpiration, the air rulhing violently into thefe cavities of the os fronds, and pafling through tlie external orifice, whenever it was not well covered and defended, would not only prevent the clofing up of the external orifice, but might otherwife bring on bad confequences (y).—^The mem- brane lining thefe finufes is fo fenfible, that inflammations of it muft create violent torture (r); ‘ and worms, or other infefts crawling there, muft give great' uneafinefs (r). The upper circular part of the os frontis is joined to the oflTa parietalia, from one temple to the other, by the co- ronal future. From the termination of the coronal future to the external angular procelTes, this bone is connefted to the fphenoid by the fphenoidal future. At the external canthi of the eyes, its angular procefles are joined by the tranfverfe future to the ofla malarum, to which it adheres one-third down the outfide of the orbits; whence to the bottom of thefe cavities, and a little upon their internal fides, thefe orbitar prbcefTes are connefted to the fphenoi- dal bone by that fame future.' -In fome few flculls, how- ever, a difcontinuation of thefe two bones appears at the upper part of the long flit, near the bottom of the orbit. —On the infide of each orbit, the drbitar procefs is in- dented (y) Paaw de ofllbus, parfe i. cap. 7, ^Palfyne Anatom, cliir. traite 4. chap. 15.. ' Nbuvelle Oft'eolbgie, partie 2. chap. 3. (r) Fernel Pathalog. lib. 5. cap. 7. Saltzman Decur. obferv. 10. (j) Fernel Patholog. lib. 5. cap 7.——Bartholin. BpUlol. Medic, cent. %, epift. 74.—Hifl.de I’acad. des fcicaccs, 1708 & 1733,