[ 4 ] the ftrufture of the parts, by way of corollaries and queftions: which fuch an anatomical work confined me to. And this me- thod has otherwife a good cfFc6l : For, when a perfon meets with an ufeful propofition, and is obliged to employ ^ little thought to find out its folution, the impreffion it makes is deeper, and he acquires a fondnefs for it, as being in part his own difcovery. My pupils have frequently affured me, that they could, with very fmall refleftion, trace out the whole reafonings from which my conclu- fions were drawn ; 1 hope that their fucceffors will alfo think this an agreeable manner of being inftrufted. Thofe gentlemen who defired I would add the leAures which I pr»nounce in my college as a commentary upon the text, where the difeafes are mentioned, will, 1 perfuade myfelf, excufe me for not complying with their defiie, when they confider the defign of this Is to be a fchool-book, and how great the difference is be- tween inftrudling youth in private, and pretending to inform the public. Arl.-x.s.v, vol. v. ofMedicalEffays andObfervations,publIfh> ed in this place, Is oneof thefe Icdlures which I gave asacommentary on the paragraph {p, 14.) concerning the different kinds oicaries. In this edition, I have corredfed the miftakes and obfcure paf- fages which I difcovered In the former, and In fome places I have made the defcriptlons more full and exaft, aiming all 1 could to fhun unneceffary mlnutenefs on the one hand, and a blameable in- accuracy on the other. Wliether 1 have hit that jull medium, is what you and the public muft now judge. You have advantageous opportunities In this place of ftudymg all parts of medicine, under the profelTors of its different branches in the Univerfity, a'nd of feeing the practice of pharmacy, furgery, and phyfic, with our furgeon apothecaries, and In the royal inlir- mary, where the difeafed poor arc carefully treated. Thefe your interefl, and,, 1 hope, your inclinations, will lead you, Gentle- men "fo to Improve, as that they become the happy means of your making a confiderable figure in your feveral ftations. Whatever allKtance is in my pow'cr towards fuch a defirable event, fhall be given with the greatelt pleafure by, Your humble fervant, ALEX, MONRO.