7« OF THE SKELETON. Part I, fmus commonly opens by a roundilh fmall hole, at the inner and lower part of the internal angular procefles, into a Cnus formed in the nofe, at the upper and back part of the os un- guis ; near to which tliere are alfo’ fame other fmall finufct of tjjis bone (/>), thg greater part of which open feparately near the feptum narium, and often terminate in the fame common canal with the large ones. » In a natural and found ftate, thefe cavities are of confi- derable advantage; for the organ of fmelling being thus enlarged, the effluvia of odorous bodies more difficultly cfcape it; and their impreffions being more numeraus, arc therefore ftronger, and affedl the organ more. That odo- rous particles may be applied to the membrane of the C- nufes, is evident from the pain felt in this part of the fore- head, when jthe effluvia of volative fpirits, or of ftrong aromatics, are drawn up into the nofe by a quick infpira- tion. Thefe, and the other cavities which open into the nofe, increafe the found of our voice, and render it more melodious, by ferving as fo many vaults to refound the notes. Hence people labouring under a coryza, or ftpp- page of the nofe from any other caufe, when they are by the vulgar, though falfely, faid to fpeak through the nofe, have fuch a difagreeable harfh voice. The liquor fepa- xated in the membrane of thefe finuf^ runs down upon the membrane of the nofe to keep it moifl. From the defeription . of thefe fmufes, it is evident, how ufelefs, nay, how permcipus, it muft be to apply a tre-. pan on this purt ,ojE,;the fkulf : for this inflrument, inftead of piercing into the,, cavity of the cranium, would reach no further than the finufesj or, if the inner table was per- forated, any extravafated blood that happened to be with- in the fkull, would pot be difeharged outwardly, but :Oj£n/‘ nv,,, ' would fall into the finufes, and there llagnate, corrupt, and ftimuhtc _ Isnr. [f,) Cowper in Drake's AhtfirOlioTog. book 3. chap. lo. V