7 Chap. I. IN GENERAL. When we attempt to tear off the per'Bfteum from bones, we fee a great number of white threads produced from the membrane into them ; and, after a fuccefsful inje<fl;ion of the arteries with a red liquor, numerous veffels are not on- ly feen on the periofteum (e), but mod of the fibres fent from the membranes to the bone, fliew themfelves to be veflels entering it, with the injeded liquor in them; and when they are broken, by tearing off the periofteum, the fur- face of the bone is almoft covered with red points. The veins correfponding to thefe arteries are fometimes to be feen in tubjefts that die with their veffels full of blood; tliough fuch numerous ramifications of them, as of the arteries, Can felftom be demonftrated, becaufe few of them naturally contain coloured liquors, and fuch liquors can difficultly be injeded into them. This, however, is fometimes done {d). The great fenlibility of the periofteum in the deep-feated fpecies of paronychia, in exoftofes, nodi, tophi, and-gum- mata, from a lues venerea, or whenever this membrane is in an inflamed ftate, is a fufficient proof that it is well pro-, vided with nerves, though they are perhaps too fmall to be traced upon it; and therefore it is difficult to determine, whether they are fent along with the arteries in the com- mon way, or are derived from the tendinous fibres of the inufcles expanded on the periofteum (e). Velfds alfo pafs through the periofteum to the marrow; of which more hereafter. And frequently mufcles, liga- ments, or cartilages, pierce through the periofteum, to be inferted into the bones. ' \ Tlie (c) Ruyfeh. Epifl. 5. tab. 5. fig. i. a. Epift. §. tab. 9. fig. i, 9. (</) Sue Traite d’Ofteologie,traduit de l*Anglois de Mr. Monro; note in p. 9. {e) See the difpute about the fenfibility ef this and other membranes. In Zimmerman. DifiTert. de irritabilit.—Aft. Getting, vol. a. Haller fur la nature ferffiblc ct irritable.—Whytt’s Fhyfiolpg. eflay a.—Remar. DyTcrt. dc ftingo articular. § a6. 34.