iCE IMP ( 323 ) Rub off the outer lemon-rind on the sugar, also the rind of two China oranges. Dissolve the sugar by pouring the juice of the fruit (which should be squeezed dry) over it, and then press- ing and stii-ring it until thoroughly mixed, as much depends on the careful incorporation of the juices with the sugar; add water (boiling) until the sherbet, for so it is called, is of the desired flavour, and when cool enough, pour in brandy and rum—a pint of each will be suffi- cient. This wiU make four quarts of excellent punch. The Italians beat the whites of eggs to froth, and add it to the sherbet; it is then iced, and served in glasses. The sherbet is much richer if the lemon-pulp be beaten in with the sugar, but it should be strained before the spu'its are added to it. Iceland Moss Jelly.—Wash four ounces of Iceland moss in warm water, and having drained it set it over the fire in a quart of cold water. Stir until it boils, when it should be covered up and allowed to simmer for an hour. Add four ounces of sugar, a gill of sherry, the juice of two lemons, the rind of half a lemon, and the white of an egg whisked with half a gill of cold water; stir the jelly until it boils, and strain through a flannel bag. This moss is considered efficacious in cases of debility and chest com- plaints, but its bitter taste renders it disagree- able. Ices.—For the following ices see under their respective headings:— Almond Cream Milanese Almond and Orange Millb Fruit Apple Water Noyeau Ice Cream Apricot Ice Cream Oranoe Water Apkicot Water Orgeat Cream Barberry Water Peach Cream Ice Bohemian Ice Cream Peach Water Bread, Brown, Ice Pine-apple Water Cream Pomegranate Water Cherry Water Raspberry- Cream Chocolate Cream Ratafia Cream Cinnamon Cream Rum Ice Coffee Ice Cream Sherbkt Currant Cream Strawberry Cream Currant Water Strawberry Icb and Ginger Cream Vanilla Ice in Ginger Water one mould Grape Water Strawberry Water Lemon Ice Cream Vanilla Cream LIaraschino Water Ice. Melon Water leas, Sugar Clarified for—Dissolve SIX pounds of sugar m four quarts of water. Let it then come slowly to a boil; add the white of an egg, well beaten, to the water, and boil ten minutes, when it may be strained and bottled. It is difficult to freeze ices which are over sweet.' Icing for Cakes {see Frost or Icing for Cakes). ° Icing for Cakes, Almond {see Abnond Icing for Cakes). Icing for Fruit Pies and Tarts.— Betore putting the pie or tart in the oven, wet it all over with cold water, sprinkle fine white sugar thickly on it, and press this lightly With the hand. Imperial.—Slice a large lemon without paring it, and bruise well two ounces of ginger. Put these into an earthen jar with two pounds of loaf sugar and an ounce of cream of tartar. Pour over it two gallons of boiling water, and let it remain until cold; then stir in two table- spoonfuls of yeast, and cover. Strain the next day, and bottle, when it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Or, take double the quantity of cream of tartar and lemon, pour over these six quarts of boiling water, and add a quart of rum and sugar to taste. Strain it the next day, when the imperial should bo bottled and tightly corked. Probable cost, exclusive of rum. Is. 6d. Imperial Cake.—Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs, beat the yolks until light, and the whites to a firm froth. Have ready the crumb of three French rolls soaked in milk and squeezed dry. Beat the bread and four ounces of warmed butter together, then add the egg-yolks, two ounces of fine sugar (pounded), and some grated lemon-peel. Wliile beating the mixture, add currants, sultana raisins, pounded blanched almonds, and candied peel, two ounces of each, and lastly stir in the frothed whites of the eggs. Bake in a shallow cake-tin and a moderate oven. Sprinkle the tin with fine crumbs, and the cake, when done, with fine sugar. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. Imperial Cream.—Put the strained juice of thi'ee lemons into a rather deep glass dish. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, and pour it into a jug, stii'ring in at the same time, by degrees, eight ounces of finely- powdered sugar. Keep the cream stii-red until it is nearly cold, and the sugar is quite dissolved, then add it to the strained juice, keeping the jug as high as possible, and mixing the juice and cream well together as it falls from the spout of the jug. This cream should be allowed several hours to set. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Imperial Drink.—Put half an ounce of cream of tartar into a large jug, which should be well heated first, add the rind of a large lemon, a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and about three pints of boiling water from the kettle. Cover closely, and let the jug stand near the fire for an hour or so. Stir the liquid occasionally while hot, and when quite cold and clear, pour off from the sediment. This is a cooling and pleasant drink for the summer. Probable cost, 3d. Imperial Gingerbread.—Take twelve ounces of dried flour, and blend with it six ounces of butter. Make into a paste with a pint of cream and six ounces of treacle stirred together by degrees before being added to the flour; the cream is liable to get turned if this is not carefully done. Strew in an ounce of cara- way seeds, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half an ounce of powdered ginger. The paste should be stiff. When cut into shapes, stick candied orange or lemon peel on the top, and bake on a tin plate, well buttered. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6dk for this quantity*