( 107 ) CAB CAR and chopped, threo boned ancliovies, a tea- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, half a shallot chopped small, a pinch of Kilt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a pinch of powdered allspice, and two table - spoonfuls of tinely-grated bread-crumbs. Put these in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir all weU together with the yolk of an egg till it is stifi and smooth, then fill the fish, sew it up to prevent the forcemeat escaping, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew bread- crumbs upon it. Pour oiled butter over it, cover it with stock, and bake for one hour. Place the carp on a hot dish, and thicken the gravy in which it was baked with a little flour and butter, season it with cayenne, a tea- spoonful of mustard, and a table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, and the last thing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve the sauce in a tureen. Suffi- cient for two persons. Carp, Saked (another way).—Wash, scale, and draw the fish. Squeeze over it the juice of two lemons, and let it remain in this for an hour, tm-ning it at the end of half an hour. Put it into a dish, pour upon it three ounces of oiled butter, and strew over it two minced shallots. Cover it with oUed writing-paper, and bake it gently, basting it frequently. When it is nearly baked, melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan, and stii- smoothlj'- into it a table- spoonful of flour and a cupful of boiling water, a small salt-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne. Let the sauce boil; then add to it gradually haK a pint of new milk or cream, and, at the last moment, draw it from the fire and add the juice of a lemon. Mince finely four large gherkins, stir them into the sauce, and poiir it over the fish. Time to bake, one hour. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Boiled.—Wash, scale, and draw a carp, preserving the liver and roe. Put it into boiling salt and water, allowing a table-spoon- ful of salt to two quarts of water, and let it boil gently, tiU it is ready. Make a sauce with haH a pint of the liquor in which the fish was boiled, a cupful of port, two shallots finely minced, two boned anchovies, a table-spoonful of soy, gait and cayenne. Let these boil gently tiU the anchovies are dissolved, then thicken the sauce with flour and butter, and add the liver finely minced. Garnish with the roe fried, and sUces of lemon. Time to boil, from twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Boiled (au bleu). — Clean and draw the carp. Cut it into convenient-sized pieces, put it_ in the fish-kettle with a large onion stuck with four cloves, some salt, pepper, and scraped horse-radish, and two bay-leaves! Pour over it equal quantities of boiling vinegarj port, and water, allowing sufficient liquid only to cover the fish. Let it boil gently until sufficiently cooked, skim it well, let it get cold in the liquor, and serve on a napkin. Time to boil, from twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp (en Matelote). —Wash and prepare a carp, and if obtainable, an eel, and cut them mto pieces about an inch and a half long. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan, let it melt, then fry in it one dozen small onions. Dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, and stir in smoothly and very gradually a cupful of red wine, and the same of broth. Add salt and cayenne, two bay-leaves, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a clove of garlic. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of eel, and, ten minutes afterwards, the ca:-p, with the roe. Simmer for a quarter of an hour more. Remove the herbs and the garlic, and pour the sauce hot over the fish. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost of the eel, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Carp, Fried.—Clean and empty the fish, dry it well with a cloth, split it open and lay it flat, being careful to remove the gall-stone, which will be found in the head, or it may give a bitterness to the dish. Dredge it well with flour, and sprinkle salt and cayenne over it, then fry it in plenty of hot butter or dripping tiU. it is lightly browned. . Lay it on some blot- ting paper to drain oflP the fat. Garnish with fried sippets, and the roes, also fried. Serve with anchovy sauce. Time, about twenty minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Carp, Fried (another way). — Cut a carp into convenient-sized pieces or fillets; sprinkle over them a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, two small onions finely minced, a tea- spoonful of pai'sley, and one of lemon and thyme. Put them into a stewpan, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them. Place the carp on a gentle fire, and partly cook it, moving it about constantl}', until it has imbibed the flavouring. Take it out, drain it, dredge flour over it, and fry in hot lard or butter. Squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Time, about forty minutes. Carp, Grilled.—^Scale, gut, and clean the carp. Rub them over with oil, wrap them in well-oiled writing paper, and broil. Serve with sorrel round them, and a little sauce in a dish. They are more tasty if some finely- minced herbs are put inside the paper, which may be either taken o& or left on. A little lemon-juice should be squeezed over them. Grill for about a quarter of an hour. Carp Pie.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with a good light crust. Stuff a medium-sized carp with oyster forcemeat, sew it up to prevent this escaping, and lay it in the middle of the dish. Put roimd it pieces of eel about an inch and a half in length, which have been already partly cooked. Take three-quarters of a pint of the liquor in which the eel was stewed, put with it a cupful of port, a little sfilt and cayenne, an onion stuck with four gloves, and a blade of mace. Let these simmer gently until they are reduced to half a pint of gravy, which may be thickened with a little flour and butter. Pour this over the fish, cover with crust, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Carp Roe.—Put the roes of three or foui- carp into a stewpan, strew a little salt over them, and cover with vinegar. Boil them f6r..toa or fifteen minutes, then chop tliem up wiUi