(63) pound. Time to fry, from eight to ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding.— Take one pound of rump steak, boat and cut it into long strips for rolling, or, if preferred, in pieces about half an inch square. Season well w-ith pepper and salt, and dredge over it a little lloui-; cut half a pound of beef kidney into thin slices, season in the same way, and lay it with, the beef into a basin lined with a good suet paste, about half an inch thick; throw in a little water and close over the top securely Avith paste. Let it boil three hours, and keep the saucepan well filled up all the time. A few mushrooms or oysters may be put into the pudding, and will be a very great improvement. Cost, rump steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound; kidney, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef Steak and Cuciimbers. — When cucumbers are plentiful this makes an economical and pleasant dish. Peel and slice a large cucumber and three or four onions- Brown them in a frj'ing-pan. Broil or fry two pounds of rump steak, then put it on a dish. Simmer the cucumber and onions in half a pint of good grav)', and pour round the meat. Time, ten minutes to fry if thick. Probable cost of steak. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Beef Steak (a la Mode).—Take two pounds of rump steak that is not over-fat, lard, and put it into a stewpan with some slices of lemon. Let it cook slowly, and when all the gravy is drawn from it, add a little stock and port wine in equal quantities. Boil slowly until the broth thickens, and when ready to serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef Steak, Fried.—If no gridiron is at hand, put some butter or dripping in a frying-pan and let it boil; then lay in a steak of half an inch thick and move it continually with the side of a knife or steak-tongs to pre- vent it from burning. When sufficiently well done on one side, which will be seen by the colour being well spread over the meat, tm-n it on the other, continuing to move it about with the tongs in a similar manner. If a fork must be used, do not stick it into the juicy part of the meat, but into the fat or edge. When done serve on a hot dish with a little butter (not melted) and some mushroom ketchup, tomato, or other sauce or gravy as preferred. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beefsteak, Pried (another way).—Cut the steak as for broiling; on being put into the pan, shift and turn it frequently. Let it be done brown all over, and placed in a hot dish when finished. Gravj' may be made by pour- ing a little hot water into the pan (after the Bteak is out, and the fat poured away), with a little pepper, salt, ketchup, and flour; the gravy so formed is to be poured into the dish with the steak; send to table immediately. If omons are required, cut them in thin slices, and fry till they arc soft. They should bo fried after the steak, and merely with part of the fat. Beef Steak Pie.—Take a pie-Jish accord- ing to the size required; two pounds of fresh rump steak cut into long thin sti-ips will make a good pie; lay out the strips -wdth a small piece of fat on each, a seasoning of salt and jDcppcr, and a dust of flour; two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper will be sufficient for the whole pie; roU up each strip neatly and lay it in the dish, and between each layer sprinkle a little of the seasoning and "flour; a shred onion or eschalot is sometimes liked, and a few oysters will be a great improvement; put an edging of paste round the dish, and throw in water enough to cover the rolls of meat, and lay a crust of about half an inch thick over all; ornament the top tastefully, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cost of steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak Pie with Oysters,—Three pounds of rump steak will make an excellent pie. Get beef that has been hung for some days, so that the beating process may not be required. Make a seasoning with half a dozen shalots, half an ounce of pepper and salt mixed together, a very little cayenne and pounded cloves, and a table-spoonful of flour as a thicken- ing for the gravy; di^^de the meat into pieces of two and a half inches, put a layer in the dish with the seasoning equally distributed, and some large oysters, parboiled and bearded, in alternate layers, till all is used up. Reduce the liquor of the oysters, take equal quantities of it and good gravy to make half a pint, pour it into the pie and cover with the paste. Bake for two hours or more. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef Steak Pudding Baked.—Make a batter with two eggs, three-quarters of a pint of milk*, and half a pound of flour, mix smoothly, and pour a little of it into a pie-dish ; season one pound of steak and half a pound of kidney ac- cording to taste (they should be cut into small pieces), and lay them on the top of the batter; fill up the dish with the remainder and bake in a quick oven for about an hour and three-quar- ters. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Steak, Roasted, and StuflTed.— Fry in a little butter the f olloA\ang ingredients, and make a forcemeat of them and two French rolls, which have been prcAdously soaked in milk; see that the frying-pan is quite clean, and put into it one ounce of butter, a slice of lean ham, well scraped, a bay-leaf, a little minced parsley, two shalots, a clove, two blades of mace, and a few mushrooms. Put the rolls into a stewpan after having squeezed out all the milk, and add to them three or four table- spoonfuls of rich stock; then put half a pint of stock to the ingredients in the frjnng-pan. boil for twenty minutes, and strain the liquid into the stewpan over the rolls, place it over the fire and stir in a little butter; when dry keep still stin-ing; then add the yolks of two eggs to bind it. Have ready two pounds of