^^^^^ CAS8ELL8 COOKERY, takes lish, two entries, a slice off one of the joints, and some game—a fail- average, we beUeve, of what ordinary healthy people would eat. Thia means sixty lai-ge silver forks, and probably the establishment only boasts twenty-four. What is universally done, even at large public dinners, is for the forks to be quickly washed immediately they are taken out of the room. For this purpose there should be two good-sized jugs just outside the dining-room door, one containing hot soda and water, and the other plain cold water; also there should be handy a couple of cloths. As the forks ai-e cleared away, let them be fii'st wiped on a dishcloth, then jjlunged into the hot soda and water, and shaken biickwards and forwards for a few seconds, and then plmiged into the cold water and again rinsed, and then dried on a clean cloth. A dozen forks can by this means be washed under a minute. Now exactly the same principle applies to the plates as to the forks, only these latter of course must be washed up down-staii's. In the dinner in question, sixty lai'ge plates would be as requisite as the sixty large forks. Should there be therefore two persons waiting at table, another person acting as a messenger between the dining-room and kitchen and the cook down-stairs; if each and every one of these persons understands his and her duty, there should be no delay, no confusion, and Above all no talking or whispering on the part of those waiting. The cook down- stairs should have ready at the commencement of dinner two large tubs, one full of hot water with plenty of soda in it, the other full of plain hot water. The jjlates should be treated just like the forks, first scraped or wiped—the former is the best, and there are indiarubber combs sold for the purjDose—next plunged into the hot soda and water, and again wiped with a dishcloth; then rinsed for a few seconds in the hot water without soda, and then allowed to di-ain on the rack, or they may be quickly wiped. In washing up in the ordinar-y method, it is customary to wash the plates in hot soda and water first, and then rinse them in cold water. In washing up, however, during dinner, recollect it is necessaiy that the plates should be hot. Consequently, by rinsing the plates in hot water to get rid of the soda and water the temperature of the plate is maintained, though, of course, if there was sufficient time it would be advisable to place the plates on the plate-warmer. WASHING UP. I would, however, here give a few words of advice to cooks about this very subject of washing tip, which is highly important. Now you all know how very quickly a dozen plates are washed up, supposing they ai-e wanted immediately for the dinner that is going on. Probably the dozen dirty fish plates and the two dozen plates used for the entries are quickly washed. Yet how is it that you will not persevere and wash up -all the things as they come down-stairs, down to the cheese plates, instead of as a rule only going on washing as long as you know the things are wanted inunediately ? Half an hour's more perseverance at the time would probably save you two hours' work later on. Yet it is your custom to give up washing as soon as you know they have got enough to finish with up-staii's; and consequently, after dinner is over, the wash-house or back kitchen, as the case may be, presents the appearance of stacks of dirty plates getting cold, the grease hardening and settling on them, while heaps of dii'ty forks and spoons are lying by the side. The amount of trouble that would be saved by washing all these up at once is somethuig wonderful. Recollect that the time taken to wa,sh up two dozen plates is not double the time taken to wash one dozen. What occupies the time principally is gettmg the things ready—the hot water, the- tubs, &c.