( 160 ) ORE ORE of toasted bread, and eerve. Probable coat of crayfish, 28. per quart. Sufficient for six or 8e\'on persons. Cream.—In the ordinary use of the word, cream is the name given to the yellow, delicious matter which rises to the surface of milk, and can bo taken from it by skimming. In cookery, it applies to a number of rich dishes in which cream is the principal ingredient, and which are generally named after the flavouring material. Creams may bo served either moulded or in cus- tard-glasses. When they ai-e moulded, they should, if possible, bo frozen, and if this cannot be done, they should bo made stiff with isinglass. It is almost impossible to give minute directions as to the amount of isinglass to bo used; the strength and quality differ so much, but it may be useful to remember that a larger proportion of isinglass will be needed for a largo mould than a small one. Too much sugar and too much water both tend to prevent a mould from turning out in shape. The moulds for creams should always be oiled or immersed in cold water before they are used. In all the recipes where cream is required, and when it is not easily obtained, Swiss milk will be most useful. Though it is not agreeable to drink, it is excellent for cookery, and much less expensive than cream, and it must be remembered that whenever it is used, sugar may be entirely dis- pensed with. In calculating the cost of the various sweet dishes, cream is put down at Is. 6d. per pint. If the Swiss or Aylesbury milk were used it would be much less. In the same way isinglass is reckoned at Is. 2d. per ounce, which is the price of the best. If opaque gelatine be used, which, though not nearly so nice, is considered by many quite satisfactory, that may be obtained at 4d. per ounce. Cream (a la Parisienne).—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint and a half of milk ; stir it well, add the juice of half a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and half a pound of good jam—apricot is to be preferred —but none must be used which was not pressed through a sieve at the time it was made. The jam should be added gradually, and the cream stirred till it is nearly cold, or the jam will sink to the bottom. It vsdll be richer and better if cream be entirely or partially substituted for milk. Time: an hour to prepare; twelve hours or more to stiffen. Probable cost, Is. lOd. with milk, or 3s. lOd. with cream. Sufficient for a quart mould. Cream (a la Valois).—Cut three or four spongecakes into thin slices. Arrange them on a dish with a little jam spread on each, and pour over them a wine-glassful of sherry. Dis- solve an ounce and a half of isinglass in one pint of boiling milk or cream. Sweeten it, and add a table-spoonful of brandy and the same of lemon-juice. Stir it well, then pour a little into an oiled mould, and lot it set; then place the sponge biscuit on it. Fill the mould with the remainder of the cream, and when it is firm turn it on a glass dish. Time, an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the sherry and brandy. Sufficient for a quart mould. . Cream, Apple Pie.—Make an apple pia m the usual way. When it is sufficiently cookod, take it out of the oven, cut out the pastry from the middle, and, when cold, pour a pmt of good custard in its ijlace. Put some ornaments of puff paste on the cover. Any kind of firm fruit may bo sent to table La the same way. Cream Biscuits (flavoured with lemon). —Boat up the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of finely-sifted sugar. When well worked together, add six whites whipped to a froth, one gill of whipped cream, and the grated pool of a lemon. Bake in a moderate oven for ten to twelve minutes. 'These biscuits may be varied by substituting orange or vanilla for lemon. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Cream, Burnt.—Boil a pint of milk in a saucepan, with a stick of cinnamon, and a little candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Let it remain by the side of the fire to draw out the flavour, then strain it, and pour it over the yolks of thi-ee or four eggs well beaten. Put the mix- ture on the fire, and simmer the custard gently until it thickens. Pour it into a dish; when cold, cover the surface with powdered loaf sugar, and brown vdth a salamander. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Cream, Clotted.—Clotted cream, usually called Devonshire cream, is sold in the London markets in small square tins, and is exceedingly delicious when eaten with fresh fruit. It is made by putting the milk into a large metal pan, and allowing it to stand without moving it for some hours, twenty-four in winter, twelve in summer. The pan is then placed on a stove, or over a very slow fire, and some distance above it, so that it will heat without boiling or even simmering until a solid mass forms on the top. The pan should be then taken to the cool dairy, and the cream lifted off when cold. Time, the slower the better. Probable cost, Is. for a small tin. Cream Cake — Beat three ounces of butter to a cream, and mix with it, very smoothly, half a pound of fine flour, a small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon sliced as thinly as possible, and a cupful of thick cream beaten up Tvith an egg. If the cream is a little turned it will not signify; indeed, it is rather an advantage than otherwise. It should make a light batter. Put it in a well- oiled dish, and bake in a moderate oven for rather more than half] an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a small cake. Cream Crust.—Pastry is much improved if it is mixed with cream instead of water. Less butter will be required ; indeed, for home consumption, it is very good -wathout any at all. It should be baked as soon as made. Cream Fritters.—Pound in a mortar half a dozen macaroons, two ounces of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the rind, grated, of half a lemon. Beat up two whites and half a dozen yolks of eggs separately, ■with half a pint of cream, and stir aU weU together.