BEE (64) BEE rump steak, cut tliick, bousou it with poppor and aalt, uud roll it up tight with tho iibovo forco- moat carofuUy onclosod, that it may not drop out. Iloast it for ono hoiu- and a half bui'oro a good, cloar liro, basting constantly witli butter, and sorve with brown gravy. I'robablo cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for four porsons. Beef Steak, Bump.—A good rump steak should bo about three-quarters of an iucli thick, and cut from meat that has lumg for a few days to make it tender. Pare away the binew, trim it neatly, brusli it over with oil, season well witli popper, and put it on a heated gridiron, tho bai-s of wliich have been rubbed witli good fat or suet to koop tho steak from adhering to them. Bo sure tho fire is clear before conuuoucing to broil; turn tho steak often. In from eight to ton numites ono of ordinary thickness will be done enough. Have reiidy a very hot dish on which a shalot, or onion, if preferred, has been rubbod soundly to extract the juice. Slightly warm a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup or other beef sauce, and dish up the meat quickly with some butter on tho top, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Use quite fresh butter, or it will spoil the flavoiu' of the steak; and garnish the dish with horse-radish grated. Oyster, onion, or any other sauce liked may be served with it. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef Steak and Pried Potatoes.— Get steak from the fillet of the sirloin, if pos- sible, and broil it over a clear fire; the steak should be about a third of an inch thick, and turned frequently for five minutes, when it will be sufficiently cooked ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, with seven or eight potatoes sliced long and thin, and fry till they become a good brown colour. The butter in which the potatoes were fried should be used to warm up the seasoning, and a tea-spoonfvd of minced herbs. When ready, put the herbs under the steak and garnish with the pota- toes. Allow half a pound of steak for each person. Beef, Stewed, and Celery Sauce.— Simmer three heads of celery and two onions in a pint of good gravy till all are tender, then add two pounds of cold boiled or roast beef cut into thick pieces, and stew gently for ten or twelve minutes. The celery should be cut evenly in pieces of about two inches long. Serve with potatoes sliced and fiied crisp. Average cost, 8d., exclusive of meat. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. Beef, Stewed, as Hare.—^^^lcn hare cannot be obtained, a good substitute for it will be found in a piece of rump of beef of suitable size. Take four or five pounds, which ctit into pieces of about three ounces. Divide into slices half a pound of bacon, and another half pound into dice, without the skin. Prepare a seasoning of the following ingredients:—A few sprigs of parsley cut small, the rind of half a lemon minced, a blade of mace, half a nutmeg grated, and a good flavouring of salt and pepper. Dust some flour over tho beef and fry in butter until it becomes light brown; do this over a quick fire that the meat may bo only slightly cooked, then lay the sUces of bacon, as a lining, round tho Btewpan; put in tlie beef and diced bacon in layers, with tlie soasouing w^ually distriljuted, and add a krgu onion stuck with lialf a dozen cloves. Make a gravy witli tlie butter in the pan, a httle broth and ludf a pint of ale; throw it over tho meat, close tho lid, and stew over a very gentle fire from three to four hours. Thicken the gravy with flour and add a gla«s of ALtdeiiu. I'robablo cost of b(;ef, Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beef, Stewed, with Oysters.—Take two pounds of tender steak about an inch and a half thick. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the steak, and brown it lightly. Dredge a little flour over it, and pour in aa much boiling stock as will cover the bottom of the pan but not cover the meat. Add the strained liquor from a dozen and a half of oysters. Cover the pan closely, and stew the meat very gently till tender. Skim the liquor, season it with pepper and salt, and suld the oysters. Put the beef in a hot dish, and send to table with the oysters upon it and the gravy poured round it. Time to stew tho beef, about one horn- and a half. Probable cost, 4s. Beef, Stewed (French method).—Take two pounds of steak, cut thick. Brown on both sides in fat and cover with broth, IMince a small carrot, two shalots, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and two ounces of bacon. Frj'^ these for a minute in butter, pour a glass of claret over them, and put the nnrepoix upon the steak. Simmer gentl)' for two hours. Strain, if necessary thicken the sauce with com flour, and add pepper and salt. Pour it over the steak, and serve. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Beef, Stewed (Irish method). — Divide two pounds of beef into small pieces—any part will do—and put them into an earthenware pan with a light-fitting cover, with a pint and a half of water, two or three onions, a carrot cut up. and a little salt and pepper. Stew all together in the oven for an hour or more. Lay on the top some peeled potatoes, cover up and put it back into the oven for an hour and a haK more, when the potatoes will be reduced to a mash, and the stew will be, as all Irish stews are, ex- cellent. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See Iiish Stew). Beef Stewed in Beer.—Take eight pounds of the silver-side of the round, hang it some days—as the weather wiU permit—to make it tender. Trim it, and bind it firmly, then put it into a stewpan with a liquid composed of part mild beer and water, to nearly covei- the meat. Add a few slices of bacon, two onions, some cloves, a bay-leaf, a small cup of vinegar, a table-spoonful of treacle, and the same of any sauce, according to taste. Let it simjner for three hours; remove the scum as it rises, and when done, take out the beef on a dish, strain and thicken the gravy ; add pepper and salt, and throw all over the meat. Probable cost, 78. 6d.