NOY ( 460 ) NOU boiling liquid, and simmer pcntly for threc- quartors of an hour, \intil it lias become a stili' pasto. Take it from tlio tiro, and when it is cool etu- briskly in with it tho well-beaton yolks of six oggs. Spread it out on a largo buttered baking-tin, about a qmirtor of an inch thick, jind bako in a modorato oven ; when brightly coloured, take it out, divide it in halves, put one half upon a largo Hat dish, spread some jam thickly over, place tho other half upon it, pressing it lightly with tho fingers, and wlicn quite cold, stamp it in small shapes with an ordinaiy pastry-cuttor. Serve neatly arranged on a napkin. These cakes should bo prepared the day they ai-e wanted for use, as they do not improve with keeping. Time to bako, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd., if simmered in milk. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Nouilles, Genoises de {see Genoises de Nouillcs). Nouilles Pudding.—Make some nouilles pastry as before directed. Cut and dry tho nouilles, throw them into boiliug water, and let them simmer imtil soft. Take them up with a strainer, and stir into them, while hot, two ounces of fresh butter; beat three ounces of butter to a cream, mix with it the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and add this to the rest. Butter a pudding mould rather thickly, cover the inside with bread raspings; whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth. Gently stir them into the pudding, put it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about haK an hour. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Rolled (a German recipe).— Roll out some nouilles pastry as thin as possible, then, instead of cutting it into threads as before directed (see Nouilles), cut it into rounds about the size of a crown-piece, sprinkle a little finely-minced ham, mixed with parsley and any seasoning that may be wished, upon each, and roll it up. Put the rolls in a stewpan, pour over them a little broth, and let them simmer very gently for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Soup of.—Make half a pound of flour into nouilles at directed. Cut it into strips, and spread it on a sheet of paper in a warm place to dry. Take three pints of any nicely seasoned soup; put it on the fire, and when it is boiling, drop the nouilles gra- dually in with one hand, and with the other stir them gently with a wooden spoon, to keep them from getting into lumps. They will swell considerably in the liquid. Ser\^e as hot as possible. Time to boil the nouilles, ten minutes. Probable cost of nouilles, 3d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Nouilles Turnovers.—Nouilles turn- overs are slightly similar to nouilles rolls. Make the pastry rather softer than usual by adding a little water, roll it out very thin, cut into pieces the shape of an egg, about two inches across, and cover half the surface of each with a little fruit finely-minced, sweetened, and flavoured, and mixed with » few bread-crumbs. TiAn the other halves over, fasten the edges securely, put tho turnovers into a little boihng water, and let them simmer gently imlil done enough. Drain them well, and serve them on a hot dish with powdered sugar sprinkled thickly over them. Time to simmer, one hour. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, with Ham.—Prepare some nouilles paste as dii-ected in the preceding recipe. Simmer for sbc minutes, drain, and diy them; put them into a saucepan, with a pint and a half of boiling gravj', one ounce of fresh butter, three ounces of boiled liam (fat and lean together cut into dice), and two ouncea of grated Pai-mesan, or, if preferred, any other cheese which is not strong in flavour. Mix lightly with a wooden spoon, taking care not to break the nouilles, add pepper and salt if required, and serve in a hot vegetable dish, accompanied by hot buttered toast, and a little good mustard. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Nouilles with Parmesan, or au Gratin.—Make half a pound of flour into nouilles paste, as directed in the last recipe. Cut it into strips, and boil these for ten minutes in three pints of water, slightly salted. Take them out, drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint of milk or gravy, an ounce of butter, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Simmer gently until all the liquid has been absorbed, then add another quarter of a pint of either cream or gravy, a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, and another ounce of butter; shake the pan over the fire, until the cheese is melted. PUe the mixture high in a buttered dish> sprinkle over it one oimce of grated Parmesan, a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg passed thi'ough a sieve and powdered. Place the dish in the oven for a few minutes, or hold a red-hot iron shovel over it until it is lightly coloured, and serve as hot as possible. Time, altogether^ an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. November, Fifth of, Gingerbread for the {see Gingerbread Parkin). Noyeau.—Noyeau is a liqueur prepared in the island of Martinique, in the West Indies, from a berry which grows there. It requires to be used with great care, as it is not whole- some. Imitations of it are very common, as the real article is rare and expensive. Two or three recipes are here given. Noyeau, Imitation.—This is a liqueur with an agreeable nutty taste. It should only be partaken of, however, in ^^rnaU quantities in consequence of the considerable propoiiion of prussic acid which it contains. Take three ounces of bruised bitter almonds, one quart of spirit, and a pound of sugar dissolved in tlirec- quarters of a pint of water. ]\Iacerate for ten days, shaking thv-^ vessel at frequent intervals . at "the end of that time let it rest for a few days, then decant the clear liquid. Apricots or peach- kernels, with the shells bruised, may be sub- stituted for the almonds.