ACI ( ALB immediately it is suflioiontly done; but great caro must bo taken tliat the iiro is not too strong, and tliat the sugar docs not boil over or burn. If there is any danger of this, a small piece of butter may bo thrown in. Time nbout twenty minutes, rrobablo cost for this quantity, lOd. Acidulated Lemonade. — To three pints of boiling water add four ounces of fresh lemon-juice, half an ounce of thin lemon-pccl freshly cut, and four oimces of iinely-powdercd loaf sugar. 'When cold, strain through a jolly- bag. If not wanted immediately, it must bo bottled and carefully corked. Acidulated Pudding.—Take the thin rind of three lemons and two Seville oranges, with a quarter of a pound of sugar: place them in a bowl with a pint of boiling water, and let them remain about an hour and a half; then remove the rinds, and add the juice of the lemons. Put three or four slices of sponge- cake into a glass dish, and strain the liquid over them; let them soak till they have ab- sorbed the syrup, then pour over them a good custard, and strew a little pink sugar over the top. Sufficient for four or live persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Acorn Coffee. —In Germany "acorn coffee" is used; and greatly hked, as a sub- stitute for oi-dinary coffee, and is considered to be very strengthening for consumptive people and delicate children. The acoms are gathered in autumn when they are ripe, shelled, and, after being cut into pieces of the size of coffee- berries, they are thoroughly dried in front of the fire, or in a cool oven. They are then roasted like ordinary cofiiee, until they become a cinnamon-brown coloiir. Immediately after roasting, the acoms are ground or pounded in a moi-tar, to prevent their becoming tough. Whilst the coffee is being ground or pounded, a very little butter is added, and the coffee is then placed in air-tight bottles. For children: prepare in the same way as ordinary coffee, using a quarter of an oimce to a pint of water, adding milk and sugar to taste. Young chil- dren should take it with two or three parts of milk. For adults: half an ovmco of the coffee may be used to a pint of water. Acorn coffee and ordinary coffee are frequently mixed, and the decoction is found very palatable. In their raw state, acoms are Imown to bo powerfully astringent, but they lose this quality in the process of roasting. In some respects acom coffee is preferable to coffee proper, having none of the drying properties attributed to the latter. Adelaide Pudding. — Put a pint of water and the thinly-peeled rind and juice of a lemon into a saucepan. Bring it slowly to a boil; then take it off the fire and stir into it, while hot, six ounces of butter and a cupful of sugar; mix -vyith it, very gradually and smoothly, half a pound of flour; let it cool; add six well-beaten eggs and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Half fill some buttered cups, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about lialf an hour. Sufficient for one dozen cups. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Adelaide Sandwiches.—Cut up cold chicken and hum in small wjuaros, in tlie pro- portion (jf two-thirds of chicken to one-third of hum. Next jjlaco two largo table-spoonfuls of sauce and one of curry pusttj in a stewpan, and when they boil add tlie cliicken and ham mixing all well together. Prepare thin tilicos of stale br(!ad, cut in small circles, by frying them in clarified butter. Spread the prepared chicken and ham slightly between two slices of the bread. Upon the top of esich sandwich ])laco a ball, about the size of a walnut, and composed of grated Parmewin cheese and l^utter in equal ])arts, kneaded into a paste. I'lace the sandwiches on a baking-cloth, ])ake for five minutes in a brisk oven, dish up on a napkin, and serve as a second-course savoury dish. Admiral's Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter, and put into it one tea-spoonful of chopped capers, three or four shallots chopped, two pounded anchovies, and a little thin lomon-rind. Let all simmer gently; add pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, and serve in a tureen. Time to simmer, till the anchovies are dissolved. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Agnew Pudding.—Pare and core eight russets, and boil them to a pulp with the rind of half a lemon. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and add to them tlii-ee ounces of melted butter ; sweeten to taste, and beat all together. Line a pudding-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake until it becomes a light brown colour. Time to bake, thirty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Albany Cakes.—Lightly beat six eggs, and stir them into a quart of milk; add a tea- spoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt, dissolved in a little hot water. Stir in sufficient fine flour to make a thick batter. Butter smaU tins the size of a tea-saucer, and half fill them ■with the mixture. Bake them in a quick oven. This makes very nice cakes, which are much used for breakfast in America. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Albemarle Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet and three or four bitter almonds; blanch and pound them, being careful not to let them oil. Beat four eggs and add to them their weight in sifted sugar; whisk them over the fire till the sugar is molted, then pour them out at once; let them get cold, and then stir in the almond paste. Beat altogether to a froth, and while in this state put the mixture into a well-oiled tin, and bake immediately. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. Albert Cake or Biscuits. — Take the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of two, and beat them up with ten ounces of pounded sugar and eight ounces of finely - cJiopped almonds, for twenty minutrs. WTiisk the remaining whites of the eggs, and mi.x with them six ounces of flour, two ounces of finely- shred candied orango-pocl, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon powder, half a tea-spoonful^ of ground cloves, and a little grated Icmon-rijid. Mix all thoroughly together, and pouf out