EEL EEIi Eels, Baked.—Take a large eel that has been skirmed and well cleansed. Fill it with a forcemeat composed of the following mgi-e- dients: three table-spoonfuls of hread-crumbs, and the Kime quantity of shelled shrimps, a little pounded mace, two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, pounded to a paste, with the beaten yolk of an egg. When stuffed, put the eel into a roimd baking-dish with water and sherry, the quantity of the former being twice as much as that of the latter, add two or three ounces of butter, and bake. When ready to serve, skim and strain the gravy. Garnish with slices of I lemon. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for two or more persons. Eels, Boiled.—Soak three or four small ones (if they are preferred), ia strong salt and water for an hour. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with just the quantity of water requisite to cover the fish. Add a bunch of parsley, and let the eels simmer about half an hour. Serve in a shallow dish, with melted butter sharpened with plenty of lemqn-juice. Sufficient for four persons. Eels, Boiled, for Convalescents £xVALID Cookeky).—When the skin has been awn off the eel, it is placed before a clear fire, or on a gridiron over a fire, to rid it of the oUy matter. When it has parted with the fat (it will not require to be kept before the fire for this purpose more than ten minutes), scrape and wash it in warm water, and then put it into a saucepan with more hot water—about one quart—add a bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of salt, and simmer till done. Serve with a little of the broth in the dish, and minced parsley as well. It should be simmered for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per povmd. Eels, Broiled.—Clean and skin two eels; if large ones, cut them into pieces of three or four inches; if small, they should be curled round, but first sprinkled with a mixture of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little powdered sage, then rubbed or dipped in yolk of egg, and strewn with bread-crumbs. Broil over a clear fire till lightly browned. Send to table melted butter sharpened with lemon-juice. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, from 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. COULARBD EELS, Eels, Collared.—Take a large eel, cut off the head and tail, and remove the skin and backbone without tearing the flesh. Spread it out flat on a board, and cover it with a season- ing composed of the following ingredients:— A small bunch of herbs, two leaves of sage minced very fine, two cloves, two blades of mace, and a little aUspico and whole pepper well pounded, with salt to taste. Roll up the eel, beginning with the broad end, and bind it tightly with a tape. BoU down the backbone, head, and tail with pepper, salt, mace, and vinegar. Put the eel to this liquor, and stew about three-quarters of an hour, and when tender set it aside. Boil up the liquor with more vinegar and spice, if required, and when cool add it to the fish. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per poiind. Eels (en Matelote).—Cut up some very small onions—five or six of them—and brown them with a little butter and flour in a stew- pan. When of a light brown, add about haH a pint of good broth and a vtdne-glassful of port wine, a few mushrooms, a laurel-leaf, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Have ready two pounds of eels, divided into lengths of three inches, simmer them in this gravy till tender, then remove the eels and place them high in the centre of a dish. Thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and serve it hot poured over. Time to stew the eels, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for four or five persons. Eels, Fricasseed.—Cut up four pounds of skinned eels into pieces of four inches in length, put them into a stewpan with equal quantities of sheny wine and water, enough to cover them; add twenty oysters, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with five or six cloves, some parsley, pepper, salt, and cayenne. WTien the eels have stewed one hour remove them to a dish, strain the gravy, and put it back into the stewpan with a quarter of a pint of cream and some butter —about an ounce—rolled in flour. Thicken this gravj', and pour it over the fish. Serve with horse-radish as a garnish. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Eels, Fried.—After the eel has been skinned and cleansed, cut it into neat pieces of four inches long, and when quite dry, season them with salt and pepper, and dip each piece into the beaten yolk of egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, and fry to a nice brown in butter or lard. If the eels are small they are usually curled round instead of being cut into pieces. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve on a napkin. Fry for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per poimd. Eels, Mayonnaise of.—Skin and empty an eel of about two pounds and a half weight, and cut it into lengths of two inches and a half. Throw the pieces into salt and water, and, when thoroughly cleansed, drain and dry them. Place them in neat layers, with spice between each layer, in a potting-dish. Pour a mixture of vinegar and water, with a little dissolved isin- glass in it over the contents of the pot, and siavr or bake in a moderate oven tUl tender. When sent to table, fill a dish with the pieces of eel, and pour over them as much Mayonnaise sauce as will cover them ; decorate according to taste, and surround the dish with lumps of jelly taken from the potting-dish. Time, about one hour to pot.