PIUNCIPLES—SPARKLING WINES. Ixxxij; now called, Mo(jt and Chandon—especially for their Brut Imperial, which is a very fine wine—and Roederer all rank very high. I would also mention Jules Mumms, Iluinart pfere et fils, Giesler, Perrier Jouet, Wachter, Piper, Veuve Clicquot, <fec. The last of these is a fine wine of excellent bouquet, but not altogether adapted to the English palate, as it is a somewhat sweet wine. However, during the last few years a new kind of wine has been imported called Veuve Clicquot (sec), which is well worth a trial. Of all Champagnes, perhaps Moet's is the best known, and this wine seems to be universally chosen by publicans as the one wine they keep. Champagne is best kept in a cooler cellar than that which is requisite for Ports, Clarets, or Burgundies. Great cai'e should also be taken in seeing that the bottles are placed on their sides, as if Champagne is kept for any length of time upright it will become flat. Champagne is generally imported in wooden cases, and it is usual to keep the wine in these boxes, which are, as a rule, marked " Keep this side up," iis a guide how they should be placed before they are opened. We have now run through the genei-al wines drunk in this country, viz.. Sherry, Port, Claret, Burgundy, Hock, Moselle, and Champagne. There is one wine, however, once most popular, but that of late years seems to have gone out of fashion, and that is Madeira. There seems, however, a strong probability of this wine coming in again. The vines in Madeira, which so completely failed some few years ago, have very much recovered. Good old East India Madeira, such as ls now rarely to be obtained, save at a public dinner of some City companj'-, will bear comparison with almost any wine in the world. The new Madeira now imported is, for its price, really a far cheaper wine than sherry, the principal drawback to it being it is somewhat sweet. However, in a few years' time there seems every probability of Madeira recovering its lost position, and those who possess good cellars might certainly make worse speculations than that of laying down some of the new Madeira, which they can get at about 48s. a dozen. There is good sound Madeira to be got at a far cheaper rate. The objection of sweetness is fatal to a large class of wines, and as the public taste just now runs upon dry wines, it is a bad time to attempt to introduce any wine save those that possess this quality. The consumption, for instance, of Sparkling Hock, Sparkling Moselle, and Sparkling Burgundy is less in proportion than that of former years, owing to the difficulty of obtaining these wines dry. Sparkling Hock has too often a tendency to acidity. Sparkling Moselle is a deliciously-scented wine, but is often sweet. It is what used to be called a ladies' wine, and I should imagine children would prefer Sparkling Moselle to ordinary Champagne. At least I am judging of my own feelings and tastes a.s a child—for in the present day it seems to me that so-called children acquire tastes for dry wines and lobster salads before they leave ofif knickerbockera. Sparkling Burgundy, when not too sweet, is a magnificent wine, and as its price is below that of the first brands of Champagne, it is somewhat strange that it is not more gen(!rally drunk. With regard to the order in which wine should be drunk at dinner we have already alluded. If dinner is preceded by those expensive luxuries, oysters, nothing cm compare with a glass of Chablis. After soup, a glass of sherry; if the soup be turtle, a glass of Madeira. After fish, either a dry sherry. Of should the fish be rich, such as stewed eels, a glass of old East India sherry. Hock, after light entr^s; an(l claret or Burgundy after richer entries. Champagne not too early in the dinner 1^ diy, and not tUl late if at all sweet. This seems the fashion in the present day.