BBE BBK mixture of white of egg and flour. If the dish be made very hot the sippets will not stay in theu" places. Bread, Soda.—IMix one tea-spoonful of tartaric acid with two pounds of flour, and a t.'u-spooiiful of salt. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of cai-bouate of soda in a pint of milk, and when it is free from sediment add it to the flour, and mix the whole quickly into a light dough. This quantity will make two loaves. They should be put into a brisk oven immediately, and baked for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Bread, Stale, How to use up — When bread has become so hard that it cannot be eaten, it should be grated into coarse powder, and preserved in wide-mouthed bottles or jars.- When kept well covered up, and in a dry place, it will remain good for a considerable time. Bread thus powdered will be found very useful for the preparation of puddings, stuffings, and similar purposes. Bread, Tipsy.—Cut a French roll into t.bin slices, and j)are ofE the crusts, leaving it a nice round shape; spread raspberry, strawberry, or currant jam over each slice, and pile them one on the other in a glass dish. Pour over them as much sherry as the bread will absorb. Ornament it round with blanched almonds cut into very fine strips, and stick them also on the top; pour a custard round and serve. This is a quickly-prepared and cheap dish. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bread, TJnfermented.—Take two ounces of carbonate of soda, one ounce and a quarter of tartaric acid, and a piece of sal- ammoniac, about the size a hazel-nut, powdered. Let these be well mixed in a perfectly dry state. Then blend them with half a peck of wheaten flour—or one-third of barley floxxr may be used—and about two ounces of salt. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour so pre- pared, and pour in as much cold water as will make the dough somewhat less stiff than bread dough is usually made. Mix it briskly and well. Make this quantity iato thi'ee loaves. Put them immediately iato a quick oven, and let them bake for one hour and ten minutes. The exact time will depend, of course, upon the heat of the oven; but a very little practice will deter- mine this. Sweet palatable nutritious bread can bo made cheaply by carefully following this recipe. Bread without Yeast.—To every half- quartcm of flour add one tea-spoonful of car- bonate of soda and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix altogether; then to the water, sufficient to make a dough, add half atea-spoonfulof mui-iatic acid. Set into the oven at once. This makes deli- cious and wholesome bread. Some use tartaric acid; in which case the bread will contain tar- trate of soda, which, although not poisonous, is mcdici^l, being slightly purgative. On the other h§.nd, muriatic acid neutralises soda just as well as tartaric acid, and the resultiug com- pound is only common salt. Breadand Fruit Fritters.-Taketwelve slices of broad and butter, cut off the crust, and let them be of equal thickness; spread them over with jam—any sort that may be liked—and make a cover with another slice; press them tightly together, and cut them into any desired forms. Make a batter, as for apple fritters, dip them in and fry in boiling lard about ten minutes; diy them before the fire on a piece of blotting-paper, and serve on a napkin with sifted sugar sprinkled over. Probable cost, 1b. Sufficient for a small dish. Bread and Meat Pudding, Port- able.—Make a bread dough, roll out the paste- thick, and put any kind of fat meat, seasoned according to taste, upon it; wrap it over, and bake or boil as may be most con- venient. This mode of cooking is particularly adapted for travellers or colonial Ufe. Any- kind of game, poultry, or meat may be stuffed, and, if well skewered before the paste is put around it, will be a convenient dish of bread, meat, and sauce combined, as they may first be cooked at home, and afterwards warmed for use when required. Bread and Parsley Fritters.-^^Pour boiling water on six ounces of bread without I crust, cover it up for an hoiu-, and then beat it I up with a fork until quite smooth; add, and I mix thoroughly, an ounce of finely-chopped i parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and four eggs, well beaten. Fry, in fritters, a nice brown, and serve with brown sauce. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost, about 6d. Bread, Wheat and Bice.—Beat one poimd and a half of well-boiled rice to a paste, j and mix it with seven pounds of fine wheaten I floui- while still warm; take a pint and a half I of warm milk and water, four ounces of salt, i and foirr table-spoonfuls of yeast, put them into- I the centre of the flour, make a thin batter, i cover the top with flour, and leave it to rise for ! an hour and a half; then make it into a dough with more milk and water, and after kneading and forming it into loaves, set it by the fire for another hour to rise before being put into the oven. Bake from one and a half to two hours. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for four loaves. Breakfast Biscuits.—Mix flour with cream to a proper consistency, and salt to taste. One pound of flour to a quarter of a pint oi thin cream will make a paste sufficiently stiff. Form into small biscuits, prick them, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen or twenty minutes.. Probable cost, about 6d. Or, mix flour as stated with a small bit of butter, the size of a pigeon's- egg, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add a little salt, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, about 4d. Breakfast Cakes or Kolls.—Take one pound of fine flom-, and make it into a dough with an ounce of butter which has been warmed, a little salt, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of good fresh German yeast dissolved in. warm water; cover it well up, and leave it all night by the side of the fire. In the morning make up into rolls, and if they stand for half an hour before halving they will be all tho better. Seven or eight rolls "may be made with