ONI om ( 471 ) or earthen jars, place layers of spice amongst them, allo\ving an ounce of whole pepper, a tea-spoonful of mustard seed, and a quarter of a tea-spoouful of coriander seed to each quart of onions. Cover them with, cold vinegar, and cork securely. As the vinegar is ahsorbed by the onions more should be added, so as to keep them well covered. Store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of onions, Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled, with Cucumbers. —Put a moderate-sized onion with three cuctmi- bers. Peel and slice them, and take the seeds out of the cucumbers. Put the slices in a colander. Sprinkle salt over them, and leave them twenty-four hours to drain, then place them in a large earthen jar, and pour over them sufficient boUrng vinegar to cover them. Tie a bladder over them, and place the jar near the fire. BoU up the vinegar every day, pour it upon the pickle, and cover the jar instantly, so that none of the steam may escape. Eepeat this until the cucumbers are green; and add an ounce of whole pepper to every quart of vinegar the last time of boiling. Store in a cool, dry place. The vinegar of this pickle is excellent for salads. Time, four or five days. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each; cucumbers, Is. Onions, Plain, Boiled. — Peel half a dozen medium-sized Spanish onions, and boil them gently for five or six minutes in a little salt and water. Drain them on a sieve, and throw them into cold water for an hour. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and let them simmer gently imtil they are tender quite through, Avithout being broken. Serve on a. hot dich, with a little melted butter poured over them. Time, medium-sized Spanish onions, an hour and a half to boil. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Sliced and Pried. — Onions, cut into thin slices, fried in a little hot butter untn they are bro'WTied, ^vithout being burnt, then mixed with flour, and afterwards pressed through a fine sieve, are excellent for flavour- ing and colouring bro>vn soups and sauces. Onions, Spanish, and Beet-root, to Pickle.—Take equal quantities of Spanish onions and beet-root. Slice the onions, and lay them in brine for twenty-four hours, then drain them well. Wash the beet-root gently; if the skin or fibres are broken the colour will be spoilt. Boil it for an hoirr, and leave it also until the next day. Peel the roots, and cut them into slices. Place alternate layers of beet-root and onion in wide-mouthed earthen jars, pour over them vinegar which has been boiled with spices and allowed to cool. Cover with bladder, and store for use. Two or three drops of cochineal will improve the colour of this pickle, and will not harm it. Beet-root, time to boil, one hour. ' Onions, Spanish, Baked. —Wash and trim, without peeling, half a dozen Spanish onions of medium size. Put them into a sauce- pan, cover them with water slightly salted, and let them simmer very gently for about an hour. Take them up, di-ain them, wrap each onion in a ■ separate piece of paper, put them into a moderate oven, and let them remain until quite tender. Before dishing them, remove the skins, sprinkle a little popper and salt over them, and pour half a pint of good gravy into the dish with them. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Spanish, Pickled. — Take some moderate-sized and perfectly sound Spanish onions, cut them in slices, and put them for twenty-four hours in a brine sufficiently strong to float an egg. Drain them well, lay them in wide-mouthed earthen jars, and put a slic^ capsicum, four cloves, and an ounce of whole pepper with every three onions. Nearly fill the jar with vinegar, place the lid on it, and set it in a large pan of cold water. Place this upon the fire, and simmer gently until the onions arc soft. Add a little more vinegar, if required; cover the jars closely, and store the pickle in a cool, dry place. Time, an hour and a half to simmer. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each. Onions, Stewed.—Peel and trim half a dozen Spanish onions of medium size, but be careful not to cut the tops too short, or the bulb will fall to pieces whilst stewing. Blanch them in boiling watar for a minute or two, then drain them, and put them side by side in a saucepan sufficiently large to hold them all in one layer. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and place upon each onion half an ounce of butter, mixed smoothly with half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered sugar. Place them over a gentle fire, and let them remain untO. lightly browned, then cover with good brown gravy, and simmer them until tender. Serve as hot as possible on toast, with the gravy poured round them. If liked, the gravy may be flavoured with tomato-sauce, or with a finely- minced gherkin and a glass of claret. A pleas- ing variety, too, may be secured by taking out the middle of each onion, stuflSng it with nicely-seasoned forcemeat, and then stewing in gravy as before. Time to stew the onions, about an hour and half. Probable cost of onions, l^d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onions, Stuffed.—Take three moderate- sized Spanish onions. Peel and trim them neatly, but be careful not to cut off too much of the tops, for fear the onions fall to pieces. Scoop out the hearts of the onions, mince them finely, and mix with them four oimces of lean beef or pork and one ounce of fat bacon (chopped smaU), a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, thi-ee table- spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, a little salt and cayenne, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Stuff the onions with the meat, and put them into a saucepan side by side, and with them half a pint of good gravy, two apples, pared, cored, and chopped small. Stew the onions imtil they are perfectly tender, and turn them over once or twice, so that they may be thoroughly cooked all through. Thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter, add pepper and salt and a table-spoonful of brandy, and servo the onions on a hot dish with the gravy poured round them. If the acid flavour is liked, the strained juice of a large fresh lemon may be poured over the