CHE ( 118 ) CHE epoon until it begins to sot. Discontinue stir- riuo;, but shako tho pan for a minute or so, then fold tho omelet in two, and keep on shaking tho pan, and, if it seems likely to stick, put a little piece of butter under it. When it is lightly browned, turn it on a hot dish. It must not bo overdone. Tho inside ought to be quite juicy. If it is preferred, the cheese may be linely grated and strewed over the omelet after it is cooked, instead of mixed with it before. Time to fry, ten minuti s. Probable cost, 6d., with two eggs. Sufficient for one person. Cheese, Ox Cheek.—This is very much the same sort of thing as pork cheese, an ox. head being substituted for a pig's head. Take half an ox head, cleanse it thoroughly, remove the eye, and lay it in lukewarm water for some hours. Then put it into a saucepan with suffi.- cient cold water to cover it. Take oli the scum as it rises, and when the meat separates easily from the bones, take it out, remove the bones, and chop the meat small, seasoning it with a table-spoonful of powdered thyme, tho same of finely-minced parsley, a little grated nutmeg, together with salt and white pepper to season it. Put it in a plain round mould, and place a weight on the top. Turn it out when cold, and cut it into thin slices. The liquor in which the head was boUed will make good gravy. Time to boil, about three hours. Pro- bable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Suitable for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Cheese Paste.—This is made by pound- ing cheese in a mortar with a little butter, and adding wine, vinegar, pepper, and mustard ac- cording to taste, until it is of the consistency of stiff paste. It is then used as a relish with bread and butter or biscuits for luncheon, supper, &c. Cream cheese may be made into a paste by mixing it with a little flour and butter, and two or three eggs beaten with a little good cream. Time to prepare, about half an hour. Cheese Pastry, Ramequins of.—Take some good puff paste. Any that is left after making pies, tarts, &c., wiU answer the purpose. EoU it out lightly, and sprinkle over it nicely- flavoured grated cheese. Fold the paste in three, and sprinkle every fold with the cheese. Cut little shapes out with an ordinary pastry cutter, brush them over -with the beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them as hot as possible. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. for half a pound of paste. Sufficient for three or foiir persons. Cheese Patties.—Line some tartlet tins with good puff paste, and half fill them with a mixture made thus:—Put a quarter of a pound of cheese, cut into smaU pieces, in a mortar with a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, and a piece of butter tho size of an egg. Poimd it smoothly, and add, by degrees, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and just before the patties are to be baked add the white of an egg beaten to a solid froth. Bake in a quick oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Ijd. each. AUow one for each person. Cheese, Potted.—Put half a pound of (ihoese, Cheshire, Glo'ster, or Stilton, cut into small pieces, into a marble mortar, with one ounce and a half of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and a little cayenne, curry powder, or anchovy powilor. Pound these ingredients well together, and as soon as the mixture becomes a sniooth paste, put it into a jar, cover it with clarified butter, and tie it up closely. A little sherry may bo added or not. Potted choose is good spread on bread and butter, and is more digestible than when eaten in the usual way. Dry cheese may be used for it. If very dry a larger proportion of butter will be required. If the butter used is sweet, and it is covered quite closely, it will keep good for two or three weeks. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cheese Pudding. — Put a breakfast- cupful of milk into a saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of a large egg. Let it remain until the butter is melted, then pour it over three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, and half a pound of grated cheese; let these soak for twenty minutes, then add a pinch of salt and foirr eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. This is a good way to finish up a rather dry crust of cheese. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cheese, 9d. Sufficient for six persons. Cheese Pudding (another way).—Dis- solve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a cupful of new milk, and pour it over a table- spoonful of bread-crumbs; let it soak for a little while, then add two eggs well beaten, and half a pound of finely-grated cheese. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible. Time to bake, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cheese. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cheese Pudding (another way).—Take half a povmd of finely-grated cheese, and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of five eggs ; add two ounces of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and a cupful of new milk, and last of all, put in the white of an egg whisked to a solid froth. Line the edges of a dish with puff paste, well butter the inside, pour in the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Before serving, strew a little grated Parmesan cheese over the pudding. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cheese Ramequins.—Mix two ounces of flour very smootlily with a cupful of water, and put it, with a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg, into a saucepan. Let it boil for threo or four minutes, then stir in four ounces of fine Cheshire cheese crumbled; let it boil another minute, and add three eggs wcU-beaten; put them in gradually, stirring all the time. Have ready a well-oiled baking-tin, and drop