BEE ( 68 ) BEE Is. 3(1. to Is. 6d. por pound. Sufficient for six poi'sons. Beef Olives, (Au Iloi).—Take long, thin slices of beof, and lay over thorn equal quan- tities of mublirooni, parsley, and cliopped onion. The vogetjiblos must be carefully prepared • a spoonful of ouch will bo suffitiient for six slices of moat. JMash two pounds of boiled potatoes. Mix a spoonful of flour to a quiirtor of a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a little pepper and salt, and add it to the mash. Spread the mixture over the olives; roll them up, tie with a naiTOw tape, and fry, or put them into the oven for about half an hour. Serve with a good brown sauce, or they may have an edging of potatoes. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, without the moat, Is. Beef Palates (au Gratin).—Beat up the yolks of two oggs, and mix them, when well beaten, Avith the following ingredients:—A blade of mace, pounded, -with a little salt and pepper, an eschalot, and a sprig of par- sley, minced, two or three button mushrooms, and a slice of ham, scraped finely. Cut three palates, which have been cleaned and boiled and the skin removed, into long slices; spread this forcemeat over them, and roU each one round, fastening it with a skewer. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, with bread- crumbs, well seasoned, and thin slices of butter laid over them. Probable cost, 6d. each. Beef Palates, Fricasseed.—Put six well-cleaned palates into a stewpan, -with just water enough to cover them; add a bunch of parsley, a glass of white wine, a tea-spoonful of salt and sugar, and a little pepper. Simmer three hours, and strain the liquor. Blend two oimces of good butter with a table-spoonful of flour; dissolve it over the fire, and stir in gradually half a pint of cream, with aa much of the liquor in which the palates were boiled as will make it of the proper consistency. Lay the palates into the stewpan, in neat, roxmd slices; add a couple of small cucumbers (divide them into strips, and remove the seeds), two or three small onions, previously boiled, a little nutmeg, grated, with cayenne and salt to taste, and stew twenty minutes. When ready to serve, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice to the sauce. Probable cost of palates, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dish to serve six or seven persons. Beef Palates, Fried. — Blanch three ox palates for ten minutes; scrape them care- fully, and boil slowly for three hours. When tender, take oflE the skin, and slice them for frying. Dissolve a little butter, and shred up some onion and parsley. Dip each slice of palate into the butter ; then into the parsley and onion, which should be seasoned -with salt and cayenne. Fry from five to eight minutes, a nice brown colour, and serve with lemon- juice over the slices, and fried parsley as gar- nish. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Palates, Stewed.—Cleanse, soak, and boil the palfiies, as before directed. Skin ^'^"^ slices of from one to two mchos broad, and let them stew in some lich gravy, well seasoned witli wilt, cayenne, and mace, a table-spounf ul of grated ham or tongue, and a couple of cloves. When they have stewed for about half an hour, add two ounces of butter, a little flour, a glass of sherry, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juira. Sorve on a dish m a circle, with croutons arranged altematcjly with the palate. I'roljabl<j cost, 6d. each. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Beef Patties.—Shred one pound of under- cooked beef, a little fat and lean together; season with pepper or cayenne, salt, and a little onion or shallot. Make half a pound of puff-paste, not too rich, stamp it into a doz(;n rounds, place the mince on half of these, and cover them with the other half. Bind the edges with white of egg, and then fry the pat- ties a light brown. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six patties. Beef Patties (another way).—Take thick slices of bread, a week old if it can be obtained, and make them of the desired form and size with a tin cutter. Scoop out the middle to receive the mince, prepared as in the preceding recipe. Dip each piece of bread into cream, and when drained brush them with white of egg, and dredge bread-crumbs, or bread- raspings, over them. Fry in good fresh butter, fill them with the mince, made hot, and send to table on a napkin. Beef Patties, Meat for.—Mince half a pound of good, fresh suet; put it to one pound of beef and one pound of veal, cut into small pieces, but not chopped. Season it with pepper, salt, allspice, and a very little mace—the allspice and mace should be pounded. Mix all together; and when wanted for patties, cut up a little parsley, and shred one blade of shalot, very finely, to mix with it. Bake in patty-pans, or buttered saucers for half an hour. They are also good cold, and may be warmed up at any time. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Beef, Pickle for.—This pickle is in- tended for dry-salting. The ingredients must be well pounded and mixed together before the meat is rubbed -with it, and the beef, or hams, turned and well rubbed every day until salt enough. Two pounds of conunon salt, one and a half ounces of saltpetre, four ounces of brown sugar, and one tea-spoonful of black pepper, will be found to impart a good, rich flavour to the meat. Cost of ingredients, about 3d. Beef, Pickle for (another way).—^To two gallons of clear, spring water, take four poim'ds of salt, two pounds of sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Treacle may be used with sugar, part of each, if preferred. Boil all together until the scum has quite disappeared, and when cold throw it over the meat to be pickled. A piece of beef, weighing from fourteen to sixteen pounds, will take twelve, or even fourteen days, and a ham a fortnight or three weeks. Cost for two gallons, about 8d. Beef Pie, Baised.—Cover the sides of a raised pie-mould •«ath butter, and put a lining of paste, made in the following manner, neatly into it:—Chop a quarter of a pound of suet, put it into a stewpan -"Hlth a (]|uartor of a poun^.