( 145 ) COD Cod, Baked (another way).—Prepare the fish as iu the last recipe; brush it over with beaten egg, strew some finely-gi-ated bread- crumbs on it, and put it in a dish with three or I'oui- hmips of butter on it. Baste it frequently, and turn it over that it may be equally cooked thi-oughout. Some persons place the fish on a drainer over a deep dish, in which is placed a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a cupful of water, and the juice of a lemon. The fish is then basted frequently with butter, but it must not touch either the vegetables or the water. Serve either with melted butter, oyster sauce, shiimp sauce, or sauce supreme. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound when in full season. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cod, Boiled.—In cold weather cod is better for being kept a day, as, if cooked quite fresh, it may prove watery. A large cod-fish should not bo cooked whole, the head and shoulders make a good dish by themselves, though the middle contains more solid meat. "Wash and cleanse the inside of the fish with great nicety, and especially the back-bone ; put it into plenty of cold water, in which a handful of salt has been thrown, bring it to a boil, skim it carefully, let it boil gently, and, when it is nearly cooked, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it remain until done. Put it on the fish-plate over the boiling water, and let it drain for a minute or two, and dish it on a hot napkin, with the rce and liver, which should bo boiled separately, a little scraped horse-radish, or fried oysters, as garnish. Oyster or anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter, may be served with it. Time to boil, twenty minutes for a moderate-sized piece, longer for a large one. When the flesh leaves the bono easily the fish is cooked enough. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Suflicient, four pounds for six persons. Cod, Cold.—The remains of cod may be used in various ways. One thing, however, should be attended to, and that is to remove the flesh from the skin and bones before it is quite cold. When this is done the cod may be simply arranged in neat flakes on a plate, peppered, a little vinegar poured over it, and the fish garnished with parsley; and served thus, it will not be a despicable addition to the breakfast-table, though further trouble ■wiU be amply repaid. If any cold sauce is left, it may be poured over the fish, bread-crumbs or mashed potatoes spread on it, a piece of butter dotted here and there, and the whole browned in a good oven, or before the fire {see Fish Pudding). It may be served with macaroni (see Cod and Macaroni). It may be made into cakes, and served as cutlets {see Cod-fish Cakes). It may be moulded {see Fish Mould). It maybe stewed, and served with maitre d'hotel sauce, Italian sauce, or supreme sauce. It may be curried, cooked with grated Parmesan, or with becha- mel, or brown sauce, or served au gratin, a la Provcn9ale, or as a mayonnaise. The pieces may be put into a stewpan, taking care not to omit the sound, the tongue, or the eatable parts about the head. Any sauce that may be left may then be poured over it, a lump of butter added, and a dozen osyters with their liquor, or mussels, or cockles, or a few shrimps. The preparation may then be heated gently, put into a dish, bread-crumbs strewed over, and broAvned. In numerous ways cold cod, cold fish of any kind, may be, ydth. a little trouble and attention, presented again at table, and will form a palatable and pleasing dish. Cod, Crimped.—Make some deep cuts as far as the bones on both sides of a perfectly fresh cod, making the cuts at two inches dis- tance, and cut one or two gashes on the checks; then lay the fish in cold water, with a table- spoonful of vinegar in it, for an hour or two. It may afterwards be boiled or fried. If it is to be boiled, it should be plunged at once into boiling water, and then simmered gently. Ciimping renders the flesh firmer, and makes it better both to cook and to serve. Cod, Croquettes of.—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and mince one pound verj' finely with one dozen oysters, or two dozen cockles, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs ; work the mixture weU together with a little cream, and make it up into balls about the size of an egg; dip these in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, fry them in a little hot lard till lightly browned, and serve them piled high in a dish, and garnished with parsley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold cod and oysters. Allow two croquettes for each person. Cod, Curried.—Put a piece of butter about the size of a large egg into a saucepan, let it melt, then fry in it three pounds of cod cut into pieces about two inches square, two large onions, and one apple cut into thin slices, a tea- spoonful of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Let them remain until the onions are nicely browned, then add a breakfast-cupful of good stock, a tea- spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of curry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice mixed smoothly with a little of the stock. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, add a small cupful of cream, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Put the cod on a hot dish, and the gT&vy over it, and serve with a wall of rice round the dish. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cod, Curried (another way).—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, break it into flakes, and fry it a golden brown in some hot dripping or lard. Drain it, and fry some sliced onions in the same fat, put thom Avith the fish, and stir into the fat some rice flour. Mix it quite smoothly, and add by degrees sufficient stock to make the sauce of the consistency of cream; add a tea-spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and two or three grains of cayenne. Put the cod and onions with the currj-, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Place the fish on a hot dish ; add half a cupful of cream to the gra-sy, let it nearly boil, then pour it over the fish, and serv-e with a wall of rice or not. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish and the cream. Sufficient, one pound of cold fish with sauce, for three persons.