( 154 ) COR COR Corn-flour (for Children).—To two tea- spoonfuls of corn-Hour, iiiixod with two tablo- spoonfula of cold water, add half a pint of boil- iiif,'nulk; boil for eight minutes, and swooton slightly. It should be, when warm, about tho thickness of cream. For children of a year old and upwards, it may bo prepared wholly with milk, and thicker. For cluldren's diet it is important that good sweet milk should bo used. Corn-flour Blancmange.—Mix very smoothly four ounces of corn-flour with a little cold nulk, pour over it a quart of boiling milk, return it to tho saucepan, and stir it constantly.' Lot it remain on the fire four minutes after it comes to a boil. Sweeten and flavour it. Pour it into a mould, and when cold tui-n it out. Serve with it a compote of any kind of fruit. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the fruit. Corn-flour Cream.—To two ounces of corn-flour add one pint of milk, two ounces of pounded sugar, and a few drops of vanilla. Stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes, and pour it into custard-cups; strew ratafias over the surface, and serve hot. Corn-floxir Custard Pudding.—Mix thi-ee ounces of corn-flour with one quart of sweet milk, one or two eggs well beaten, a little butter, and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and boil for eight minutes. Pour it into a pie-dish, and brown it before the fire. This is an excellent dish. Corn-flour Fruit Pie.—Bake or stew any kind of fruit with sugar. Put it into a pie-dish, and pour over it corn-flour boiled with milk, in the proportion of four ounces of flour to one quart of milk. Brown before the fire. This makes a covering lighter and more whole- some than the ordinary pie-crust. Corn-flour Fruit Pudding.—Prepare a batter as for corn-flour blancmange, boil it until smooth, and let it go cold. Fill a dish with about two pounds of any kind of good ripe fruit; stew these tiU. soft with sugar, and when cold place the corn-flour in the middle of a dish, and pour the fruit over and round it. Peeled and cored apples or pears may be used for the same purpose. Corn-flour Jelly.—Mx in a tumbler a tea-spoonful of corn-flour with a little cold water. Pour upon it sufficient boiling wa.ter to form a clear jelly, stirring it well during the time it is being poured on; then add a glass of sherry. Corn-flour Omelet.—Beat up two eggs, and mix them with one table-spoonful of corn- flour, and a tea-cupful of milk. Add a little sugar, and salt and pepper, if desired. Put the whole into an omelet-pan, previously well heated and covered with melted butter, and move the pan constantly over the fire._ Turn the omelet several times, and double it over. Cook it until it is lightly browned. Corn-flour Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk with a little lomon-rind; pour it iipon three dessert-spoonfuls of corn-flour mixed smoothly with a little cold milk or water, add a well-beaten egg, and swoeton according to taste. Pour the mixtui-e into a weU-butterod pie-dish, and bake it from twenty to thu-ty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sulliciunt for thi-oe persons. Corn-flour Pudding, Baked.—Add three and a half ounces of corii-liour to one quart of milk; boil for eiglit minutes, stirring it briskly all the time. AUow it to cool, and then mix thoroughly with it two eggs well beaten, and tliree table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and bake for lialf an hour in a moderate oven, or 1>rown it l;efore tlie fire. Corn-flour Soufiae Pudding.—Put six ounces of corn-flour into a saucepan, with eiglit ounces of pounded sugar, and mix both together with a quart of milk. Add four ounces of frofili butter, a pinch of salt, and a few drop.s of essence of vanilla. Stir briskly until it boils, and then work in vigorously the beaten yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and incorporate them lightly with the batter, which must then be poured into a slightly-buttered pie-dish, and baked in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Sprinkle the top Avith powdered sugar, and send to table quite hot. Corn-flour Sponge Cake. — Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream. Add half a pound of white sugar, haK a pound of corn-flour, a dessert-spoonful of baking powder, and four eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Corn-meal Cake.—Mix together a pint of Indian meal, a tea-cupful of sour cream, the same quantity of fresh milk, half a cupful of treacle, one egg, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and as much cinnamon, nutmeg, or other spice as may be required to flavour the cake. Butter a tin, pour the mixtuie into it, and bake it in a moderate oven for from one hour to one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is, SufELcient for a good-sized cake. Corn-meal Pudding.—This dish is, like pease pudding, intended to be eaten with hot meat and gravy. It is made by stirring Indian meal into boiling water until it is as thick and smooth as batter. It must be beaten well over a slow fire for a few minutes, and when it bubbles up it is done enough. Time, twenty minutes. Corn Puddings, American.^Putinto a saucepan one pint of milk, tho thin rind of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sugar; let it boil, and stir into it by degrees four table-spoonfuls of Indian floiir. Keep on stirring it for ten minutes or more, then turn it out and let it cool. When quite cold, add three well-beaten eggs, put the batter into buttered cups, allow room for rising, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 8d. ; Corporation Cakes.—Mix two tablc- spooufuls of finely-sifti^d sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a ])i{isjl of saltj with half a pound of flour. Add oSo oimce of candied lemon cut- into thin stripSi-and two ounces of