OX ( 486 ) ox diameter; ho careful to loavo the rings (inn and unl)n)ken. Place thorn on a well-buttorod dish, and lot them soak in sour cream until they aro Boft, then lay a raw egg in the middle of eacli ring. Sprinkle u little salt and pepper over them, and put a tea-spoonful of milk on each egg- , I'^ut the-n in a hot oven, and lot them remain until cno whites aro sot, but they nmst not bi-owu. Garnish with water-crosses. Time, ten minutes to set the eggs. If liked, the broad can bo floured well and fried in fat. The eggs ™Y t^e"^, bo poached separately. Probable cost ot half a dozen ox eyes, 8d. Ox Heart, Baked.—Wash the heart m several waters. Cut away the lobes, and let it soak for three hours in vinegar and water. Drain, and slico into thin steaks cut tho long way of the heart. Grease a pie-dish, and lay eome sliced potatoes at the bottom of it. Put two or three rashers of bacon on these, then the heart, then bacon again, and afterwards more potatoes, and repeat until tho dish is full, being careful to put potatoes on the top of aU. Dredge a little pepper over each layer as it is put in, and salt if required. This will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Pour half a pmt of water over the whole, and bake in a moderate oven. A little browning added to the gravy will improve the appearance. Time to bake, one hour and a half {see Heart, Bullock's). Ox Heel Stock for Jelly.—FoUow the directions given in Calf's Foot Stock for Jelly. Ox Kidney {see Kidney, Ox, Stewed). Ox Liver, To Cure and Preserve, for Gravy.—Mix half a pound of moist sugar with two table-spoonfuls of salt. Rub the liver well Avith this mixture, lay it in a shallow pan, and turn it and rub it every day for a week. Make a pickle by boiling a pound of salt and an ounce and a half of saltpetre in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour. Pour it when cold over the liver, and let the liver remain in the pickle for six weeks, turning it every other day. Take it out, drain it well, and hang it in a cool place. When dry, it is ready for use. The liver should be cured in cold weather. When gravy is required, cut about four ounces of the liver into thin slices. Pour over them a pint of cold water and any flavouring that may be wished, and simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour. Strain and serve. Salt wiU not be needed. Probable cost of liver, 9d. per pound. Ox Palates.—Ox palates may be served in three or four different ways, but they always require the same preparation. They deserve to be better known than they are, as they are both inexpensive and wholesome. Three or four are enough for a dish. To prepare them, dissolve a handful of salt in a gallon of lukewarm water, put in the palates, let them lie for several hours, and press them frequently with the fingers to draw out the mucus. Drain them, and put them in a saucepan of cold water over a gentle fire. Let thorn heat gradually, and before the water boils lift them out and scrape off the homy skin which covers tho roof-part until they look white and cle^r. If the water boils, the akin will be diflicult to peol oS. Ox Palates, Curried.—Soak and boU tlu-eo ox palates as before directed. Press them between dishes, and when cold cut them into pieces an inch and a lialf sqiuiro. Put three sliced onions and one apple into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Cover them closely and let them steam until they are tender, but they they must not brown. Mix a dossert-spoonful of curry-powder veiy smoothly with half a pint ot good gravy. Pour this into the saucepan, and add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of brandy, a small lump of sugar, a little salt and pepper if requiied, and the sliced palates. Simmer gently for half an hour, then take out the palates, and strain the gravy! Mix a dessert-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a table-spoonful of musliroom ketchup. Thicken the gravy with this, put in the palates again, and boil gently half an hour longer. Serve the palates on a hot dish, with a border of rice boiled as for curry round it. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ox Palates, Grilled.—Prepare four ox palates as before directed. Put them into a stewpan with as much water or stock as will cover them, and let them boil until they are quite tender, then draki them, and press them between two dishes until they are cold. Cut them in slices two inches long and half an inch wide, lay these in a pie-dish, and cover them with a marinade made of a quarter of a pint of vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of sweet-oil, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a spoonful of salt, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen chives, and two or three bay-leaves. When they have soaked in this for an hour or two, drain them, cover them with crumbs of bread, and fry them in hot fat until they become brown. Or, after they are taken out of the marinade, make a paste by mixing a heaped table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs, and adding a table-spoonful of sweet-oil, a little salt and pepper, and a glassful of sherry. Dip the slices of palate in this batter, and fry them as before. Drain the fat carefuUy from them, and dish them in a circle on a hot dish. Send piquant or tomato sauce to table with them. Time, four hours to boil the palates; five minutes to fry them. Suffi- cient for four persons. Ox Palates Stewed.—Prepare and boil three palates as before directed. Cut them into pieces, and place them in a stewpan with three- quarters of a pint of brown gra,vy, and a wine- glassful of sherry or port. Let them simmer gently for half an hour, then thicken the gra\'y with a little rice-flour, and serve very hot. 0.x tails may be stewed and dished ^rith the ox palates. The slices of palate are sometimes larded and lightly browned before being stewed. Time to boil the palates, four hours. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Palates with Macaroni.—Skin and boil throe palates as before directed. Press them between two dishes, and when cold cut tho best part into slices two inches long and haK an inch wide. Put them into a stewpan, cover thorn with, nicely-sonsoned eTa\7', add a glassful of sherry, and simmer vor^- gently for half an houi". PiLo half a pound of hot