GAL ( 236 ) PRY hot; if It 18 pale and soft, it is not hot enough. All fish which 18 to be fried required a certiin amount of preparation. After boint? washed and gutted, it must be well di-ied. To insure this, it should first bo patted all over with a sott cloth, and afterwards dredged with flour rho preparation should then be finished in one ot two ways. The first is to dip the fish into an egg, which has been well beaten for three or four minutes, and mixed with a tea- spoonful of oil and a tea-spoonful of cold water and thou to cover it all over with bread-crumbs made from stale bread, which has been'finely gi-ated. The second is to dip it into a batter made of flom- and water of the consistency of thick cream; this batter is improved by the addition of a beaten egg, though it is very good without. For inexperienced cooks the latter plan 18 much the best. It is well to have at hand some light brown bread-raspings, such as are used for hams. They can be obtained at the baker's, price Id. for a bag containing about a pint, or, if it is necessary to prepare them at honne, can be easily made from crusts of bread which have been kept in a slow oven till they are browned all over, and then have been rolled, pounded, and sifted, till they are as fine as pos- sible. The baker's raspings will require this. They should then be put into a box with a closely-fitting lid, and stored in a dry place; and they will keep any length of time. After dry- ing, flouring, egging, and bread-crumbing the fish, sprinkle a few of these crumbs lightly over the top, and press them down with the fingers. They will insure the appearance being good; and, if after cooking, any spot is deficient^ sprinkle a few more on that place. The fat in which fish rissoles, croquettes, patties, cutlets, and all similar articles are fried, should be suffi- ciently deep to cover them entirely, so that they may truly be said to be boOed in hot fat. As we should never say that we had boiled a piece of meat if we had put a spoonful of water at the bottom of the saucepan, and placed the meat upon it, so we cannot say that we have properly fried fish, &c., if we merely place a small quantity of dripping or butter at the bottom of the frying-pan, and lay the article to be cooked on it. If the proper depth can- not be obtained, the fat must, at any rate, be aufficiently deep to dip the fish into, and then first one side can be done, and then the other. In turning a fish, the fork should be stuck into the head. If the frying-pan is so short that it cannot be put in whole, it is best to cut it right across into slices; fry these separately, then place them on the dish in the form in which they were before they were cut. The time required for frying depends upon the nature of the article and the depth of the fat, 80 that no rule can be given. By experience the cook will soon be able to tell when it is done enough; and if the raspings are used, it need not remain on the fire any longer in order to brown them. The flesh of fish ought to leave the bone easily, and should have a moist appear- ance. Mullet should be wrapped in buttered paper before being fried. Lastly, it must be remembered, that all fried dishes, when served without sauce, should be dried thoroughly before being sent to table. To accomplish this, wrap them in blotting-paper, or pkco them on a reversed sieve, or in a cloth before tlie fire, and turn tJiem two or throe times, so that each side may be equally di-ied. Fun Pudding.—Mix a couple of spoon- luis (it arrowroot with half a pint of miLk and the same of cream. Put it into a stewpan with sugar to sweeten. Stir until it boils' . ilave ready sliced api)les enougli to fill a krgf>.' sized duih ; they should Ijo sliced thin, and sugar should be strewn between the slices. Put bits of butter over the apples, and bake them gently till soft. Let them go cold, pour the arrow- root (also cold) over them. Garnish with apri- cot jam, and serve. Gala Pudding (sometimes caUed-General batisf action Pudding).—Take three eggs separate the whites from the yolks, beat the latter weU, mix with them a cupful of boiling milk, flavoured with lemon, and add a table- spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut; pour this custard into a stewpan simmer gently, stirring all the time, untU it thickens. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a good crust. Three parts fill it with slices of sponge- cake, spread with apricot, strawberry, or any other jam. Pour the custard over them, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pudding is suf- ficiently cooked, lay on it the whites of three eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of white sugar upon this. Put it into the oven a few minutes longer, and serve. Time, fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Galantine of Fowl {see Fowl, to Bone without Opening). Galantine of Pigeons.—Take a couple of pigeons, retaining the heads and feet, but cutting off the ends of the toes. Wrap the heads, after cleaning them, in paper, and be careful not to break the necks. Eoast the birds till they are of a nice uniform bro'wn. Take some clear savoury jelly prepared before- hand, warm it, and flU with it a bowl of suit- able size. When the pigeons are nearly cold place them in the jeUj-, tying their heads, bending their feet under them, and placing a sprig of myrtle in their bills, so that they may look as natural as possible. The birds should be placed upside Aovm in the jelly, which should cover their feet. When the jelly is fii-m—say in about twenty-four hours—turn out upon a dish and serve. Galantine of Quails.—Bone, flatten, fill, and truss or roll quails, or other small game, in the same way as for a galantine of fowl. Three or four birds will be required for a dish. If there is any difficulty about the boning, any poulterer vnW do it. Bind each bird separately with tape, and tia it in a nap- kin. Put them into a stewpan •with some good veal stock, a cow-heel, all the bones, a carrot, a large onion, stuck with one clove, a blade of mace, one tea-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Stew gently for nearly an hour. Let