( 67 ) BEE BEE epnc off. ThG bcondiigo round tho meat should be dean and not quite new. The gi-avy left in the bottom of the pan should bo preserved; it will be found excellent for made dishes of any kind. The beef may be glazed and gar- nished with savoury jelly. Average cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Beef, Inky-pinky.—Good gravy should be used if it is to be nad; if not, boil down the bones from which the meat has been cut, as well as the outside trimmings; they will make a gmvy sufficiently good, with liie addition of sliced boiled caiTots and an onion. When the bones have pai-ted with all their strength, strain tho liquor, and add to it some slices of cold roast beef, about two pounds, and the carrots and onion. Simmer slowly, and add a little vinegar, pepper, and salt. Remove the onion ; it will have imparted a flavour, which is all that is necessary; but serve up the carrots with the sauce, thickened with a little butter and flour. Put sippets of bread round tho dish, or garnish as any other hash. Average cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Jerked.—This is a West Indian method of curing beef. It is cut into thin slices, immersed in sea-water, and dried by exposure to the rays of the sun. Beef Kidney {see Bullock's Kidney). Beef Liver {see Bullock's Liver). Beef, Lumber, in Madeira Sauce.— Roast three pounds of beef, for half an hour only. Prepare a sauce with brown stock or broth, some butter, flour, cayenne pepper, salt, pepper, and a glass of Madeira. Put the half- cooked beef into a stewpan with the sauce, and simmer, but do not boil, for the same time. Mushrooms or truffles add to the delicacy. Time, haK an hour to simmer. Probable cost of limiber, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef, Marinade.—A pickle should be made on the day pre^dous to the marinade being required, that the meat may lie in it the full time necessary. Extract, by stew- ing, all the flavour from the following in- gredients, with vinegar and water in equal quantities:—One clove of garlic, some sliced carrots and onions, a few peppercorns, and a little salt. Strain, and let it become cold. Cut into slices one pound of beef from the inside of a sirloin, and lay them in the pickle for twenty- four hours. Have ready a little, nice, brown gravy, and simmer the slices in it till they are quite tender. Blend together a little butter and flour, add this to the gravy, with a glass of port wine, two dessert-spoonfiils of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of shalot vinegar. Serve with the sauce poured over it. Time to simmer, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, without meat. Is. Sufficient for three persons. Beef Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones into short lengths, and mix some flour and water into a paste to secure both ends, which should also have a floui-ed cloth tied over them. Put them into boiUog water, and let them boil from one and a half to two hours. Put small napkins round them, or a frill of paper, which- ever is most convenient, and remove the paste before they aro sent to table. Serve them on a napkin, with hot dry toast. The marrow may be spread upon the toast, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. When not wanted for inmiediate use the bones, should be parboiled, as they Avill keep many days in this state. Pro- bable cost for a large leg-bone, from 9d, to Is. Beef, Minced (a la Bourgeoise).—Brown a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, in a stewpan. Cut some roast beef into small pieces, and put them, with a little parsley, basil, thyme, pepper, and nutmeg, into the brown butter. Shake the pan for some minutes over a slow fire, and add equal parts of wine and stock broth. Simmer until the meat is tender, and before send- ing to table add a table-spoonful of the best oil. Time to simmer, twenty minutes, or until tender. Two pounds of beef will be found sufficient for three or four persons. Beef, Minced, Savoury.—Mince very fine three or four small onions, wdth a little thyme, parsley, chives, and tarragon, and put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, over a gentle fire, until partially cooked. Mix with them half a table-spoonful of flour, and let them become brown. Add pepper, salt, half a glass of white wine, and a glass of stock. When the onions and spices are quite ready, put them into the pan with a sufficient quantity of cold beef finely minced, and allow it to simmer at a gentle heat for half an hour. Before sending to table, mix with it a spoonful of mustard. Beef, Miroton of.—Put three ounces of butter into a frying-pan, with three onions, thinly sliced, and a pound of cold roast beef, under-cooked, if possible, and cut into small slices. Turn the meat constantly, so that it will be evenly browned on both sides. When of a nice colour, put in about half a pint of good gravy, with salt and pepper to taste. Allow it to simmer a few minutes, but do not boil, or the meat will be shrunken and hard. Serve hot. This is a very nice and cheap dish. Probable cost, about 6d., without the beef. Beef Olives.—Cut two pounds of rum] steak into thin slices, or if preferred leave it h, one large piece. Lay over it a seasoning ot chopped herbs, pepper, and salt; roll up the pieces separately, and tie round with a narrow tape. Get a clean stewpan, in which place one ounce of butter, half a pound of bacon cut in thin slices, and some chopped parsley. Put the rolls of steak into a stewpan, pressing them closely together; turn them over till they are brown, then pour a little stock over them, and stew gently from two to three hours. When sufficiently tender, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or half an ounce of butter roUed in flour, and serve. A few drops of mushroom ketchup, or Readmg sauce, is considered bv some cooks to improve tins dish. Probable' cost for steak