MUT MUT ( 451 ) mace; pound these in a mortar, and stuff the shoulder; then round it to a nice shape, having first secured the forcemeat; use strong thread, and if properly and carefully done there is no fear of the sausage-meat leaving its place. Put the stuffed shoulder in a large stewpan con- taining some melted hutter, and brown slightly both sides of it. Pour in a quart of good broth or water, and when it has boiled, and been skimmed, add a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion, a carrot, a handful of button mushrooms, and two cloves ; simmer until done, basting the meat often with the gravy during the last ha,lf hour. Serve the meat on a hot dish; strain and take oft" aU fat from the gravy, keep the meat hot before the fire, return the gravy to a small stewpan, and boil rapidly until it is re- duced in quantity; then pour it over the meat, and gamiah with glazed onions. Time to brown, seven or eight minutes for each side ; to dress altogether, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 9^d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Shoulder of, with Oysters. —This joint is seldom cooked at the present time in this fashion, but we give the recipe to show the variety of ways in which a shoulder of mutton may be served. When boned, it should be highly seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Place a layer of oysters, bearded, over the inside of the meat, sew up the opening, and roll the joint up neatly, securing it with a broad tape so that it may not get loose during the stewing, simmer gently in beef gravy or broth just enough to cover it, add an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper; serve with oyster sauce poured over the meat. Time, according to size, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient, seven poimds for six or seven persons. Mutton Steaks, French.—Cut steaks from the neck; make them neat by shortening the bones, which put aside with the trimmings for gravy. Put the steaks into a stewpan, and bring them to the boU, with a few small onions, savoury herbs, and water to cover; remove at once to a dish to drain, put the trimmings and bones into the liquor from which they were taken, and boil for an hour. When strained, set the gravy to cool, and when the fat is cleared off thicken it with browned butter and flour; flavour with salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. When the steaks are ready (they should be fried in the meanwhile, and dipped into egg, bread-crumbs, and finely-minced herbs), pour the gravy on a hot deep dish, and lay the steaks into it. Time to boil steaks, two minutes; to fry, five minutes. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Mutton, Stewed.—Take slices of half an inch thick, and without fat, from any roast joint, season them wcU with pepper, salt, a little shred shallot, and mushroom powder, mixed together, and sprinkled over the meat. Put a pint of broth into a stewpan, lay in the meat with a couple of young carrots sHced, and a coTipIo of small onions. Let the mutton Qtew until the carrots are tender; keep the lid of the stewpan closed. Put the meat in the centre of a hot dish, thicken the gravy with half an ounce of butter kneaded with a little flom-, add any store sauce—Harvey's or any other preferred —and serve with di-ied rice round the dish. Time to stew meat, half an hour. Sufficient, a pound and a half of meat for four or more persons. Mutton, Stewed and Baked.—A shoulder of mutton is deprived of its greasy quality by being partially boiled, or rather stewed, and its cooking completed in the oven. Procure a middle-sized shoulder, trim off any excess of fat, and bone it; put it into a stewpan with just water enough to cover it. Simmer gently for two hours or more, according to the size. Put it before the fire, tie a good lump of butter in a coarse muslin, rub the mutton well over, and then strew thickly with fine raspings, chopped parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, mixed together. Finish the cooking in the oven; half an houi- in a good oven will be suffi- cient. Serve on a hot dish with boiled spinach round the mutton, and gravy in a tureen. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Mutton Stock for Soup.—For a rich soup allow a pound of meat to a pint of watei', but do not use mutton cw/y ; a mixture of meats will make the best soup. Four pounds of mutton, with the same weight of beef, or rather less of veal, necks, feet, and bones of undressed fowk, and of a calf's head, with a layer of lean ham, or half a pound of Jewish smoked beef, laid over the bottom of an iron soup kettle, and a pint or a pint and a half of water to each pound of meat, will make very excellent stock, vrith the addition of vegetables. Boil the meat and bones slowly, and skim carefully; add to each gallon, when boihng, one ounce and a half of salt, three onions, each ■with four cloves, three carrots, three turnips, two heads of celery, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a blade of mace, and a dozen white peppercorns; strain for use. Time to simmer, six hours. Mutton Tails.—Cut them into halves and boil, or rather stew, until tender, in broth or water, skimming the surface free of all fat, &c.; add salt, an onion or two stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, and a few fine herbs. "WTien tender, take them out, drain, and dip them, but they should be first scored, into dis- solved butter; cover with nicely-seasoned bread- crumbs, and when these have dried pour more dissolved butter over, and again cover with the crumbs, and brown with a Siilamander; thicken the gravy, add a little lemon-juice, and serve with the gravy poured over them, which should bo drained. Mutton tongues may be cooked in the same manner, and served on the same dish, arranged alternately. Time, two to three hours to stew. Mutton Tea (Invalid Cookery).—To a pound and a half of lean juicy mutton, cut into small dice and without bone, allow one pint of water; put it into a saucepan, and pour the water cold on it. Infuse this by the side of the fire for half an hour, then boil, add a little salt, and remove the scum. Simmer gently for another half hour, and let it settle; then straiu,