GOO GRA ( 268 ) ripe. ITio smoU of goosuborry tart, wo may observe, by tho way, oxactly rosomblos that of tlie true forget-me-not. Two pintH and a half of gooseberi-ios will make a pie for four or five jiersons. Proljiible coHt, 9d. Tijiio to bake, thnv-qviartors of an liour. Gooseberry Trifle.—Cut a quarter of a pound of Savoy caked into thin slices, and place tliem at tho bottom of a deep glass dish. Pour over thorn a littlo sherry, bmndy, or whiskey, and let them soak until soft. Boil half a pint of water with a pound of loaf sugar for ton minutes. Put in a pint and a half of green gooseberries, picked, washed, and drained. Lot them boil till they aro tender, but unbroken, and, when cool, place them on the Savoy cake. Make a pint and a half of good plain custard, nicely flavoured with lemon or vanilla. Pom- it over the gooseberx'ies, and ornament with a little whipped cream, or tho beaten white of egg. Time, about an hour and a half to prc- jwvre. This dish is better made three or. four hours before it is wanted. Sufficient for a .supper dish for six or eight persons. Probable cost, about Is. 8d., exclusive of the wine or 'brandy. Gooseberry Turnovers.—Make some ;good light crust. Roll it out two or three times, then leave it a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp it out in rounds with a cup, plate, or small basin, and lay a few gooseberries, which have been stewed with sugar, on one half ■of each round. Turn the other half over the fruit, fasten the edges securely, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven. Serve on a napkin, with sifted sugar. Time, about a (piarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Id. each. Gooseberry Vinegar (excellent for pick- ling).—Pick and bruise a quart of ripe goose- berries. Put them into a bowl, and mix with them three quarts of spring water which has been boiled and grown cold. Let them remain for two days, stiixing frequently ; then strain, and add two pounds of sifted sugar to each gallon of liquid. Put this into a cask, and with it a piece of toasted bread, dipped in yeast. Put a piece of muslin over the bunghole, to keep out the flies, and set it in a warm place, but not in the sun. The vinegar may be bottled in nine months. Probable cost, Is.. 2d. per gallon. Sufficient for a quart of vinegar. Gooseberry Water.—Bruise the fruit, and press out the juice through a coarse sieve. Mix with it an equal quantity of water. Boil and filter the liquid. Sweeten it according to taste, and add a little lemon-juice. This will be a refreshing and agreeable beverage, if not made too sweet, which is a common fault. The exact amount of sugar required cannot be given, as it depends upon the acidity of the fruit. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. 7'robable cost, 4d. per quart. Gooseberry Wine, Effervescing.— Cut the tops and stiilks from some sound green . gooseberries; bruise them thoroughly, and add 8 quart of cold spring water for every pound of fruit. Leave them for three or four days, stirring frequently. Strain through a sieve, and add three pounds of loaf sugar to every gallon of liquid. Wlion tho sugar is dissolved, put tho liquid into a cask, with a bottle of gin and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass to every five gallons of wine. It will, in all probability, bo ready to bottle in six months ; but if not quite clear it must remain longer. The gooseberries sliould be taken when fully grown, before they begin to turn ripe. Probable cost, is. 8d. per gallon, exclusive of the spirit. Gooseberry Wine, StilL—Pick and brui.s(; the fruit, and jiut it in a large tub. Let it stand twenty-four liours, then drain off the juice, and add a quart of lukewann water to every gallon of gooseberries. Let this stand twelve houi's. Mix tlie water with the juice, and add twelve pounds of loaf sugar to five gallons of liquid. Let it ferment well. The temperature should be in proportion to the ripeness of the fruit. If necessary, the liqmd should be placed near the fire. In two or three days it will be ready for the cask. Put it into the cask with two quarts of brandy to five gal- lons of liquid. Bung it well. To be in perfec- tion, gooseberry wine should not be bottled for five years; but, if required, it may be used at tho end of twelve months. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Gotham Pudding.—Dissolve a' piece of saleratus the size of a small nut in a table- spoonful of hot water, and mix -with it a break- fast-cupful of milk, three weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of flour. When quite smooth, add a pinch of salt, and four ounces of candied citron, cut into thin slices. Beat thoroughly for ten minutes, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, tie the mould in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Graham Cakes.—Make a dough with some Graliam meal and as much boiling milk as it will take, and yet be roUed out. Add a little salt, and roll out the dough three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut it into rounds, and bake in a very hot oven, when the cakes will be light and puft'y; if it is not sufficiently hot, they will be very heavy. Time, ten or twelve minutes to bake. Sufficient, about a quart of boiling milk to half a pint of meal. Grandmamma's Pickle.—Take a sound white cabbage and a young cauliflower. DiN'ide the latter into small sprigs, and cut the cab- bage into thin shi'cds, in the same way as red cabbage is cut for pickling. Spread them out on separate dishes, and cover them with salt. Let them remain forty-eight hours, then set the pieces of cauliflower on a sieve, and let them drain before the fire. Squeeze the salt from the cabbage with the hands, and pu the cabbage and cauliflower in layers into pick o-bottles or jars. Boil as much vinegar as will amply cover them, allowing an oimce of whole gmgcr, broken into pieces, half an ounce of mustard- seed, and half an ounce of pepper, to every ' quart of vinegar. Let thesp ingredients boU together for two or three minutes, and, when cold, pour them into the bottles. A lablc- spoonf ul of turmeric may be mixed with a httlo