MUT { 449 ) MUT stir in two table-spoonfuls of flour; continue to stir until it is nicely browned, then put in about two pounds of breast or nock of mutton out into square pieces, and suilicient water to nearly cover the mutton; flavour with' a few sprigs of parsley, which must afterwards be removed. Add two lumps of sugar, and pepper tind salt to taste. AVhen it has once boiled, re- move to the side of the fire, and be careful only to let it sinmier for an hour. Fry to a nice b^o^^^l three good-sized turnips previously cut into dice; put them into the.stewpan with the meat, and simmer for a couple of minutes. Arrange the ragout upon the dish, placing the turnips in the centre, and the pieces of meat round the edge. Pour the sauce over the whole, and serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Mutton, Koast, with Garlic (a German recipe).—The acrid flavour of garlic is not much relished by English palates. Wo confess, with our continental neigh- bours, that it is an essential to many made dishes in the form of a soiipfon only. By boiling the garUc, and repeatedly changing the water during the process, the flavour may be so mollified that few persons would disagree with us. The f oUo-^ing German mode of cooking a leg or shoulder of mutton is with garlic in its raw state :—Separate a garlic bulb into the smallest cloves, and envelop each one in a leaf of green sage. Beat the joint— leg or shoulder; take off the skin, and force the garlic well into the middle of the mutton by several holes made for the purpose. Secure the openings, rub the joint with pepper and salt, and roast in the usual way. Long strips of shallot are often used instead of garlic; these are put in with the larding-pin all over the mutton. A few tarragon leaves or tan-agon vinegar, a tea-spoonful of caraway seeds, a quarter of a pint of beer, and the same quantity of water should be put into the diipping-pan to baste the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Mutton, Roebuck Fashion.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung. Remove the fillet, skin, and cut away the fat and bones. Lay the loin in a marinade composed of equal parts of vinegar and water, to a pint of which add a glass of port or claret, a couple of carrots, and two large onions cut into quarters with a clove in each, a dozen peppercorns, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs and parsley, some bay-leaves, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt. When the mutton has lain in the marinade twenty-four hours, turn it, and let it lie until next day, then drain, and put it into a braising- pan with a little of the pickle, the pan being well lined with bacon, and more bacon being placed over the top. Stew it three hours. Glaze the meat, and serve with gravy, adding walnut ketchup and a glass of claret. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Trim half a dozen mutton rumps {i.e. sheep's tails), skin, split, and lard the same number of mutton kidneys: season them with cayenne. Put the rumps, with a pint of good mutton gravy, into a alewpan, add two onions, each stuck with two P cloves, a blade of mace, a handful of button mushrooms chopped, or a spoonful of mushi-oom powder, with salt and pepper. Stew them in the gravy, with the stewpan closed, until the rumps are tender. Drain, and wipe them dr>'. Strain the gravy into another stewpan, add to it a quarter of a poimd of rice, previously boiled dry as if for curry, and let it get hot through while the riunps are fried. Dip them fii-st into beaten egg yolks, and then roll them in bread-cinunbs, seasoned nicely with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of thyme and parsley mixed. When of a light brown, have the kidneys ready (they should be roasted, and well basted), turn the rice into the centre of a hot dish, and arrange the rumps and kidneys round it; or they may be sensed with French beans boiled in the usual way, and then warmed up in some of the giavy instead of rice. Time to stew rumps, half an hour; to fry, ten minutes; to roast kidneys, twenty minutes. Probable cost, about 2s. Mutton, Saddle of (a la Portugaise).— Prepare a marinade as follows :—Boil together, in two quarts of port wine mixed with a pint of vinegar, a couple of onions, each stuck wdth six cloves, six bay-leaves, two large caiTots, half a dozen small turnips, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic or three shallots. Put the mutton into a rather deep dish, with the top and flaps neatly trimmed, and any excess of fat removed with the skin; pour the marinade boiling over it, and keep it basted often until cold; then turn the meat in it once a day, and, in five or six days, drain, wipe dry, and roast for a qiiaiier of an hour over the usual time for mutton, covering it with a buttered paper, and basting constantly until done. Serve with a gravy from the meat to which a little of the marinade has been strained and a good quan- tity of currant jelly been added. Time for ten pounds, two hours and three-quarters. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Snfficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Saddle of, Roasted.—A saddle of mutton, if hung in a cool airy place, will improve with keeping from one to three weeks, according to the weather; but as this part of the sheep is the most tender and delicate, it may, if liked, be roasted in from four to five days. If not for a large familj', get the joint well trimmed; the flaps, tail, and chump end may be cut away, which will considerably lessen the weight, and be found more advan- tageous to the purchaser, even at a higher price per pound. In its entire state it is considered an expensive joint, consequently people of moderate means and family, unless so accommodated by the butcher, can seldom order it. Roast as before directed for roast loin {see Mutton, Loin of. Roasted). The joint should bo skinned, and the skin tied over it securely until within half an hour of its being sent to table, when it should be removed, and the surface browned and frothed. It should be of a pale brown colour. Make a gravy in the dripping-pan: do not pour it over the meat, but put a httle in the dish, and more in a tureen, with red-currant jeUy cr port-wine sauce