LEM LEM ( 374 ) Lemon Peol, To Candy.—Choose sound rrosh loinons, cut them into (lUiirtora length- ^viso, roniovo the pulp entirely, and put tlio rind into salt and water for throe days, and afterwards into coUl water for a day. ' Boil thorn in fresh cold water until they are tender. Drain thorn, and cover them witii their syrup, made in the proportion of a pound of sugar to every quart of water. ^V^lon they look clear, which will be in half an liour, drain them again, make a thick syrup, allowing for this a pound of sugar to every pint of water, put them in, and boil over a slow tiro until the syrup candies. Take out the lemons, drabi them, and dry them in a cool oven. Store in a cool, diy place. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Peel, To Keep for Use.— Lemons should be kept in a cool, dry place, and e'ach one should be hung in a separate net, for if they touch one another they -will spoil. The rind may be grated, put into jars, and covered -with either salt or sugar, according to the nature of the dish for which it is afterwards to be used. Lemon Peel, To Preserve for Gar- nishing.—Cut lemon-rind into thin slices. Prepare a syrup by boiling a pint of sugar with three-quarters of a pint of water imtil the sugar is dissolved. Put in the rind, and simmer both together for a quarter of an hour. Wlien cool, put into pots, cover closely, and store in a cool, dry place. Lemon thus prepared is useful for garnishing dishes. Pro- bable cost of lemons, Id. each. j Lemon, Pickled.—Take a dozen fresh sound lemons, small, and with thick i-inds. Rub j them with a piece of tlanncl, and slit them down in four quarters through the rind only, without breaking the fruit. Fill the openings with salt, pressed hard in, and set them upright in a deep pan, which must be put in a warm place until the salt melts. Tui-n them three times a day, and baste them often in the liquor until they are tender. Drain the liquor from them, and put them into earthen jars. Boil the brine with two quarts of good vinegar, half a pound of bruised ginger, three ounces of black pepper, six ounces of mustard-seed, and an ounce of Jamaica pepper. Pour it, when boiling, upon the lemons, with an equal quantity of the seasoning in each jar, and when cool, cover with thick paper. The lemons must be kept well covered with vinegar, and as it evaporates more must be added. When the lemons are used the liquid will be useful in making fish and other sauces. This pickle will keep for years, but it ought to be kept twelve months before it is used. If wanted sooner, however, bake the lemons in a very cool oven for six or seven hours. The best time for making this pickle is from November to April. Time, ten days to melt the salt. Probable cost of lemons, Id.each. Lemon Pudding, Baked.—Boat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it three ounces of powdered sugar, the beaten yolks of three eggs, the well-wliiskcd white of one egg, and the grated rind of a small fresh lemon. When tliose are tliorou<'hly mixed, add the stininod juice of the lemon, poiu- :t m gently, and stir )>ri«kly all the time Lme the edges of a small pie-dish with good puif paste, pour in the nuxture, and bake in u slow oven for twonty-five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or tlu-ee persons. Lemon Pudding, Baked, Plain.—Put the thin riud of a large fresh lemon into a pint and a half of milk. Lot it soak for a while, then boil it, and pour while liot over half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs; add an ounce and a half of fresh butter, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and three eggs well beaten. Pour the mixtm-e into a buttered dish, and Ijake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six l^ersons. Lemon Pudding, Baked (anotlier and a richer way).—Crush four ounces of rata- fias to powder, and strain over it the juice of four fresh lemons; add the grated rind of two lemons, four ounces of powdered sugar, three-quarters of a pint of cream, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, a small pinch of salt, the beaten yolks of six and the well-whisked whites of thi-ee eggs. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff 'paste, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is lightly browned, which will be in about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lemon Pudding, Boiled.—Shred six ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, the lind of two lao-ge lemons chopped small, the strained juice of one, and two well-beaten eggs. Pour-the mixture into a buttered mould, plunge it into boiling water, and boil it quickly and continuously. Serve brandy sauce with it. If preferred, one ounce of ginger or half a pound of chopped figs may be substituted for the lemon-rind, but the juice should not be omitted. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lemon PuiOfs.—Grate the rind of two fresh lemons, and mix it with ten ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Beat the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, add the sugar very gra- dually, and whisk all together to a thick paste. Cut it into any shape that may be preferred, but be careful not to liandle the paste any more than can be helped. Place the pufis on oiled ^vl•iting-paper, and bake upon tins in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 7d. Lemon Rice.—Put the rind of a lemon, an ounce of butter, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, five or six bruised almonds, and a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, ^\^lcn it boils, stu" in quickly a quarter of a pound of ground rice which has been smootlily mixed with another half-pint of milk. Continue stirring until the rico has boiled for a few minutes, and until it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon, then take out the rind, pour the rice into a woll-oiled mould, and put it in a cool place to set. Cut the rind of