( 423 ) MIN MIL pudding may be boiled, in which case more niillot for the same quantity of inilk must be used. Boil in a basin, well buttered. Time, about an houi- to bake; to boil, an hour and a half; fifteen minutes to simmer. Sufficient for five or six persons. Milton Pudding. — Simmer in a small saucepan a quarter of a pint of new milk, with the thin lind of a lemon and three blades of mace; boil until the flavour is gained, then strain the milk to a pint of double cream, and boil together for a minute. Sweeten while hot with an ounce of finely-sifted sugar. Let it cool, and add the beaten yolks of seven eggs and a glass of brandy. Boil in a mould, and serve cold, with sweetmeat or preserved fruit round the dish. Time, an hour to boil. Minced Collops.—Shred a shallot and part of an onion as small as may be, and brown them both in a stewpan, with a good lump of butter; let them not acquire much colour. Have ready minced a pound of the fillet or a rump-steak. Add it to the browned onion, with a small cup of stock, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or a few button mush- rooms, also minced, and a little parsley and thjone tied, together. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring it to the boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Serve hot, with toasted sippets round the dish. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Minced Eggs.—Boil five eggs hard and cool them in water: remove the shells and chop the eggs ; boil half a pint of new milk, add thi-ee-quarters of an ounce of flour and one ounce of butter mixed together; chop up and add half an ounce of parsley, season with salt and pepper; boil for five minutes, then add the eggs, and shake well together until the whole is thoroughly heated. Do not stir it, and garnish •with, toasted sippets and lemon. This dish is a great favourite ou the tables of vegetarians. Mince, Brandy {see Brandy Mince, for Pies). Mince for Patties.—Warm, in a quarter of a pint of good gravy well thickened, two table-spoonfuls of ham, four of the white part of a fowl, one egg (hard boiled), the whole to be finely minced. Add, pounded, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. When hot through, fill the patty-cases, which should have been previously baked. Mince for patties may be made of any descrip- tion of cold meat, poultrj', shell-fish, &c. Pro- bable cost, 9d. The above quantities are suf- ficient to fill six patties. Mince, Kew {see Kow Mince or Haggis Royal). Mincemeat—Mix well together half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped small; half a pound of currants washed ; half a pound of chopped beef-suet; ten or a dozen apples peeled, cored, and chopped; a quarter of a pound of lean beef, without skin or fat, boiled and chopped; one nutmeg grated, and a tea- spoonful of allspice; a quarter or half a pound of candied peel, according to the richness desired, chopped. Put the ingredients into an earthen jar with a close-fitting cover, and pour a glasti of brandy over them. Stir up these ingredients from time to time. Mincemeat is best made a fortnight or thi-ee weeks before it is wanted. Mincemeat (another way). — Procure a neat's-tongue; parboil it; take a pound and a half of it, and chop it very fine; shi-ed finely a poimd and a half of good beef-suet; stone a pound of raisins; pare and core five apples, and take the thin rind of one lemon; chop up the three last-mentioned ingredients very fine, and mix them in a large pan lined with earthen- ware. Add a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, two pounds of currants well cleaned, an ounce of cloves fijiely beaten, the juice of three lemons, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. ]Mix all these ingredients thoroughly together, and keep them in a covered pan. Mincemeat (another way).—Take one pound of tender beef, either baked or boiled, and chop it very fine. Chop, also, one pound of fresh suet, one pound of apples, one pound of raisins (Valentias, stoned), one pound of cur- rants, two ounces of candied lemon-peel, two oimces of orange-peel, a little of the rind of a fresh lemon chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of sweet spice. Mix the whole well together, and it will be ready for use. Mincemeat (a la Toulouse).—Mince two brains broiled, with some roast beef; season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; and make them into a paste with melted anchovy butter and some yolks of eggs. Make this paste into balls of a moderate size, and roll them in bread- crumbs. They are then to be fried in butter until they become brown, when they may bo sent to table, either by themselves or with tomato sauce. Mincemeat and Mince Pies. — Take four pounds of raisins stoned, and four pounds of currants, washed clean, four pounds of apples, six potmds of suet, and half a fresh ox-tong-ue boiled, half a pound of candied orange-peel, ditto lemon, and a quarter of a pound of citron, all chopped; the juice of three oranges and three lemons, with the peel of two grated; half a pound of moist sugar, two glasses of brandy, two of sherry, one nutmeg gratedj a spoonful of pounded cinnamon, and half an ounce of salt. JMix all these well together, put the whole into jars, and keep them tied over with bladder. A little of this mixture baked in tart-pans with puff-paste foi-ms mince pies. Or peel, core, and chop finely a pound of sound russet apples, wash and pick a pound and a half of currants, stone half a pound of raisins, and let both these be chopped small. Then take away the skin and gristle from a pound of roast beef, and carefully pick a pound of bcef-suet; chop these well together. Cut into small pieces three-quarters of a pound of mixed candied orange, citron, and lemon-peel; let all these be well stirred together in a large pan. Beat or grind into powder a nutmeg, half an ounce of ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of allspice and coriander-seeds; add half an ounce of salt, and put these into the pan,