OAT ( 463 ) OIL browned on one side, turn it on the other. The cakes may either be eaten soft, or hung to cnsp upon a cord which has been stretched across the kitchen. WTiile the cakes are baking, the dust of the oatmeal should be swept off with a small brush. 'lime to bake, two minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per dozen. Oatmeal.—Oats, in the form of oatmeal, are rich in tiesh-formers and heat-giyers, and serve as a nutritious and excellent diet when the occupation is not sedentary. The outer husk of oats, unlike wheat, is poor in albu- menoid matters, so that oatmeal is better than the whole oat as food. In making oatmeal, one quarter of oats (328 lbs.) yields 188 lbs. of meal and 74 lbs. of husks, the rest being water. Oatmeal is remai-kable for its large amount of fat. 100 parts contain : — Water 13-6 Albumenoid Matters . . . 17"0 Starch 39-7 Sugar 5 "4 Gum 3-0 Fat 5-7 Fibre 12-6 Mineral Matter . . . .3-0 Or, Water 13-6 Flesh and Force Producers . . 17'0 Force Producers . . • .66-4 Mineral Matters . . • .3-0 "One poimd of oatmeal, when digested and oxidised in the body, is capable of producing a force equal to 2,439 tons raised one foot high. The maximum of work which it will enable a man to perform is 488 tons raised one foot high. One pound of oatmeal can produce at the maxi- mum 2fozs. of dry muscle or flesh." "Oatmeal," Pereira remarks, " is an important and valuable article of food. With the exception of maize or Indian com, it is richer ra oily or fatty matter than any other of the cultivated cereal gi-ains; and its proportion- of protein compounds exceeds that of the finest English wheaten flour; so that, both in respect to its heat and fat making and its flesh and blood making principles, it holds a high rank." There are several kinds of oatmeal. One is known as round-oatmeal: it consists of the oats divested of the husk and ground into a very coarse powder. Another is Robinson's Patent Groats, which consist of the finest part of the oat-flour, all husk, and the outer and harder part of the grain being removed. "Roimd oatmeal" varies a good deal in quality: the better sorts have the outer surface of the oats of which they are composed rubbed oft" by attrition between two stones. Oatmeal is frequently adulterated with barley-meal, the dift'crence in price be- tween the two being a great inducement to dishonest traders. Barloy-mcal costs only about one half the price of oatmeal. Other substances used for adulterating oatmeal are whiting, plaster of paris, and burnt bones. In consequence of a pecuHar quality of the gluten which the oat contains, oatmeal does not admit of being baked into a light fermented bread. It has been alleged against oatmeal, that when it is employed as the sole food, without milk or animal diet, it causes heat and irritability of the skin, aggravates skin diseases, and sometimes gives rise to boils. Dr. Pereira, however, states that this charge has been made without sufficient gi-ounds. At all events, it is very rarely that circumstances render necessary for any length of time such an exclusive con- sumption of oatmeal. Oatmeal Bannocks.—Rub half an ounce of fresh butter into two and a half pounds o£ Scotch oatmeal, and stir briskly in as much, lukewarm water as will make it into a stiff paste. Sprinkle some oatmeal on the pastry- board, and spread the mixtui-e out into a round- cake, about half an inch thick and four inches in. diameter. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour.. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Probable cost. Is. Oatmeal Gruel.—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal very smoothly with a little cold water. Pour upon it a pint of boiling water, stir- it well, then let it stand for a few minutes tO' settle. Pour it back very gently into the sauce- pan, so as to leave undisturbed the sediment at the bottom of the gruel. Let it simmer, stirring occasionally and skimming it care- fully. It may be sweetened and flavoured with wine and spice, or be mixed with a little beer and grated ginger, or, if preferred, a little salt only may be put in. Dry toast or biscuits may be served with it. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer. Probable cost. Id. Sufficient for one person. Oatliieal Gruel (another way).—See Gruel, Oatmeal. Oatmeal Hasty Pudding.—Mix atable- spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of oatmeal,, and a pinch of salt smootlily with four table- spoonfuls of cold milk. Stir these gradually into a pint of boiling milk, and beat the mix- ture with a fork imtil it is quite smooth and free from lumps. Let it boil quickly for four or five minutes, pour it on small plates, and serve hot. Send cream and sugar, or treacle,, to table in a tui-een. When the Scotch or coarse oatmeal is used, it should be soaked all night in a little cold water, then added gradually to the boiling milk, and beaten as above. If preferred the flour may be omitted al- together and oatmeal only may be used. Time to boil the pudding, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Oatmeal Porridge.—Put some water in a saucepan on the fire. Let it boil quickly, then throw in a pinch of salt. Sprinkle some oatmeal into the boiling water with the left hand, and at the same time beat it briskly with a fork held in the right to keep it from getting into lumps. When the porridge is sufficiently thick, draw the pan back a httle, put on the lid, and simmer gently till wanted, or about twenty minutes. Treacle, cream, milk, sugar, or butter may be eaten with it. The quantity of oatmeal will depend upon the taste of those who are to eat the porridge. Some people like it very thick, and others quite thin. Probable coat, Id. per plateful {see Porridge, Oatmeal). Oil.—Under this name, as well as those of butter, fat, lard, suet, and grease, we have a