OASSELl'b COOitKfey. page 48. We will suppose the house to possess such very ordimry dbhes as the remains of a cold fowl and a piece of boiled bacon. Now, suppose the cook to road the recipe carefully, and see in about what proiKjr- tions tlie ditierent ingredients should be mixed. The carca«e of the fowl is cut up and placed in a saucepiui, with one or two of the bacon bones, which, being lean, form tlie best substitute for the lean ham. A little piece of veal—say a quai-ter of a pound, or indeed a spoonful of gelatine would do—must be added. Add to these a slice of carrot, or even the whole of a small one, a good sUce of onion, a tiny piece of mace, one or two peppercorns, and add salt to taste. Let all these simmer gently for ^ a couple of hours or so, and then strain it off", water having been added in a due proportion. Now, this stock would, of course, make excellent bechamel sauce, for the simple reason that every ingredient in the recipe has been used, the difierence between the lean bacon bones and the lean ham being too trifling to make any material change in the flavour. If this broth be well strained and well skimmed, and every particle of grease removed, and then be simmered down to about three-quai-ters of a tumbler in quantity, it has, of course, just like the other broth, only to be mixed with an equal quantity of good boiling cream, and slightly thickened with a little arrowroot, to be equal in flavour and excellence to any bechamel sauce served up in a first-class large hotel. In many hundi-eds of the recipes we have given, and shall give, it will be the duty of the cook, in order to render such recipes practical, or, in. other words, to make the recipe fit in to the exceptional circumstances of the family or place, to make such little alterations as we have described. Of course, in some instances, the quantities must be increased, such as in the case of large schools, and in othei-s decreased. One of the first principles of cookery is, as we have already stated, economy; and we will broadly defixie economy as the art of extracting the gi'eatest amoimt of noiu'ishment out of the various materials used, and not simply buying cheap things out of which to make dishes. For instance, poor persons will buy peas to make soup; and having boiled them as long as possible in some water, with a piece of bacon, will strain it ofi", and throw away the peas, thereby losing half the nourish- ment. A good cook would, of course, rub all the peas through a tammy, thereby rendering the soup twice as nourishing and twice as nice. This is an instance of want of economy, which we have said is more common in the cottage than the palace. STUDYING APPEARANCES. In addition to the first and primary principle of cooking, i.e., of supplying the body with nourishment, there are two other important priuciples to be constantly borne in mind— one is to please the palate, the other to please the eye. "We have called them two pruiciples, but in reality they are one, for the reason that the palate is pleased by means of the eye. There are some good old sayings pregnant with meaning, such as, " It makes one hungry to look at it," or " It makes one's mouth water." Have you ever observed a very hungry animal tied up, or in a cage, just before it is fed, when a fine and to him tempting piece of juicy meat is brouglit in view ^ Making the mouth water is no figiu'e of speech, but a reality that can be witnessed any day at the Zoological Gardens. I believe that in teaching young cooks one cannot begin too soon to impress upon them the importance of appearances. For instance, in making a mayonnaise salad, it is almost as easy to make an elegant dish as a plain one. Why not therefore do so on every occasion? The