MXJT MUT ^-442 ) stock, adtlijig iuiy sauco (Harvey, soy, inuHh- room ketchup, Aic), aud a doBHcVt-Hpoonful of tarragon vinegar. When boiled and tliick enough, diali the cutlets in a circle (they sliouid liave been k(!i)t wann), and pour the Hauco round them. Time, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient, thi-ee pounds for six persons. Mutton Cutlets, Italian (another way.) —Clarify four ounces of butter, into which dip some carefully-trimmed cutlets of the best end of the neck of mutton, then immerse them in the beaten yolk of one or more eggs. Pass a cupful of bread-crumbs through a colander, to ■which add a little clioppcd lemon-peel, two shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, and a tablo- spoonful of savoury herbs, all minced; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Cover the cutlets thickly with these ingredients, and fry them a rich brown in butter. Keep the cutlets hot. Make some rich brown gravy by dredging some flour into the butter which remains in the pan, and stir rapidly until brown ; pour in half a pint of hot broth or soup, half a small glassful of port wine, a table- spoonful of Harvey sauco and tarragon vinegar mixed, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a few mushrooms (if in season), if not, mushroom powder can be used. Boil the gravy up, and pour into the dish in which the cutlets have been placed. Time, ten minutes to fry cutlets. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for &ve or six persons. Mutton Cutlets, Reform Club.—Trim four or five well-chosen thick cutlets, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, brush them with egg, and dip them into a mixture of pounded or nnely-minced ham and bread-crumbs, in equal quantities. Cover them well with these, and fry in hot oil in a saute-pan for eight or ten minutes. Take care not to overdress them, and. turn frequently while cooking to keep their gravy from flowing. Serve round mashed potatoes with the thick end of the cutlet down- wards, and pour over them reform sauce, made in the following manner:—Put together two onions, two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme, two bay-leaves, two ounces of pounded lean ham, half a clove of garlic, half a blade of mace, two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one of chilli vinegar, and a pint of brown sauce. Boil up, sldm well while simmering for ten minutes, and again boil to reduce to the thickness of cream, when add a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and one of finely-chopped mushrooms; stii- until the jelly is quite dissolved and the flavour of mushrooms is acquired, then strain through a fine hair-sieve. This is Soyer's celebrated sauce piquant. When wanted for use make the sauce hot, and add, without boiling any more, the white of hard-boiled eggs cut into strips, four mushrooms without the brown fur and pre- viously bknched, a gherkin or two, a pinch of cayenne, and half an ounce of cooked ham, with sjilt to taste. Cut all into strips of half an inch, like the eggs. Mutton Cutlets, Sauce for (xcc Papil- lote Sauce for Veal or Mutton Cutlets). Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Puree. —Trim cutlets from Avell-hung mutton, Ix'at them into sh.apo after removing the chine-bone. dip them into dissolved butter, biush th<m with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Fry in boihng fat, turning them ficfjuently during the frying. Put them on blotting-]>aper before th(i fire to drain. Have ready a puree of fresh tomatoes, made as follows Pick a pomid of ripe tomatoes, break tliem open, and put tliem with(jut their seeds into a stewpan with an onion or a couple of shaUots, sweet herbs aud spice if Uked, salt, and i>epper; stir over a slow fire until the tomatoes can be pulped through a hair-sieve; return the pulp to the stewpan to simmer, add an ounce of butter well-worked together with a little flour, and stir in two ounces of meat-glaze. AiTange the cutlets in a circle a little overlapping each other, and fill the centre with the puree. Serve hot. Time, ten minutes to dress cutlets. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, nine or ten cutlets for a dish. Mutton Dormers.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice as if for curry; chop a good haK-pound of undeiflressed mutton, and three ounces of good fresh beef suet; mix these with the rice, and chop altogether. Shred finely half a shallot, add it with a good seasoning of pejjper and salt, and make into sausages, lioll these separately into a dish of beaten egg, cover with fine bread-criunbs, and fry in hot lard or dripping untO. of a nice brown colour. Send the dormers to table with gravy round them, and gravy also in a boat. Time, about twelve minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Mutton Escalopes, or Collops, with fl.ne Herbs. — Chop some mush- rooms, parsley, and a shallot, and got small thin slices (about two inches square) from the chump end of a loin of mutton. Fry these browm. on both sides in a stew- pan with an ounce of dissolved butter; the fire should be brisk, and the collops turned several times in the butter. When done, tako them out, and keep them warm before the fire. Put in the mushrooms, parsley, and shallot, half an ounce more of butter, and stew for five minutes; then add a table-spoonful of flour, a spoonful of ketchup, a quarter of a pint of stock, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir till thick. Put in the collops; make them hot, but do not boil; place high in the centre of the dish; pour the sauce over, and serve with toasted sippets or potato-balls. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Fillet of. Braised.—Cut the fillet froni a well-hung leg of nuitton by tiiking oflt a few inches from the loin end, and a good knuckle, which will do for boiling, from the other end. Take out the bone, and fill tho hollow with forcemeat, if liked, or put the fiUet, well sprinkled with pepper and salt, into a braising-pan as it is, but first lay over the bottom sUces of bacon, and on these a couple of carrots and two large onions, each stuck with four cloves, a small bimch of parsley and thjnne, a few peppercorns, and lialf a i)int of gravy or stock. Put more bacon on the top, cover the lid, and braise for throe or four hours. Strain the gravy, and flavoiu- it to taste;