LEM LEM ( 370 ) Time to boil, an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for f'oiir or fivo persons. Lemon Cake.—Boat tho yolks of six eyf^s thorouj^lily. Add hiilf a pound of sifted su^ar, the grated rind of a lemon, and two tfible- spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Beat all to- gether for some nuuutcs. Dredge in gradually si.>c ounces of flour, add the strained lemon- jmco and the whites of tho eggs whisked to a firm froth. Mix thorouglily, put the mixture juto buttered tins, and bake immediately. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a pint mould. Lemon Cake, Rich.—Beat three-quar- ters of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Work into it six ounces of dried flour, and add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, and the well- beaten yolks of nine eggs. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the white of six eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, nearly an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Calf's Foot Jelly {see Calf's Foot Jelly, Lemon). Lemon Caramel.—Break half a pound of loaf sugar to pieces. Barely cover it with water, and boil it to the snap; then keep stirring it until it becomes slightly coloiured. Draw it near the side, and add six or seven drops of the essence of lemon—the quantity to be regulated by taste. Pour the mixture upon an oiled baking-sheet; mark it in squares with the back of a knife, and let it get quite cold, when it ■ will easily snap. Time, about half an hoiu-. Probable cost, 3d. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Bub the peel off two large lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with half a poimd of clarified butter, add six well- beaten eggs, five table-spoonfuls of cream, and the strained juice of one of the lemons. Stir all together over a slow fire xmtil the mixture begins to thicken. Let it get cold. Line patty-pans with good puff paste—^rather more than fill them—and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for three dozen cheese- cakes. Lemon Cheesecakes (another way).— Simmer together over a slow fire a'pound of loaf sugar, foiur ounces of fresh butter, four well-beaten eggs, and the juice and finely- minced rind of two lemons. Stir one way, and when the sugar is dissolved, and the mixture is smooth and of the consistency of honey, pom- it into a bowl. When cool, it is ready to put into the patty-pans. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Lemon Cheesecakes (another way).— See Cheesecakes, Lemon. Lemon Cheesecakes (that will keep).— Rub a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of two large fresh lemons until all the yellow part Urtaken off. Crush it to powder, and mix with it tho strained juico of tho lemons, the yolks of six and tho whites of four well-beaten eggs, three sponge biscuits grated, and four ounces of sweet buttor. Put all together in a sauco- l)an over tlie fire, and stir one way until the mixture is as thick as honey. It may be used at once, or, if preferred, may be put into a jar and covered closely. If kept in a cool, dry place, tho mixture will remain good for two or tln-ee years. Time, half an hour to prejjare. I'l-o- bable cost. Is. 8d. Suflicient for three dozen cheesecakes. Lemon Cream.—Take the thin rind of one large or two small fresli lemomi, and put it into a pint of cream. Let it soak for half an hour, then stir in four ounces of sifted sugar and the strained juice of the lemon. When well mixed, add one ounce of disisolved and cooled isinglass. Take out the lemon-rind, pour the mixture immediately into a weU-oded mould, and put it into a cool place to set. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Cream (another way).—Cream, Lemon. Lemon Creams.—Put the thia rind of two lemons, and a dozen sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, into a pint of cream, and let it stand two or three hours till the flavour is thoroughly extracted. If expedition is required, put the cream, &c., into a saucepan, and place it near the fire for half an hour. Put the cream into a jug, and let it cool, then pom- it from a good height into another jug containing the strained juice of the lemons, half a tumblerful of sherry, and three ounces of pounded sugar, and continue pouring backwards and forwards until the cream is nicely frothed. Serve in glasses. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherrj-. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Lemon Creams (another way).—Soak one ounce of isinglass for five minutes in half a pint of sherry or raisin wine. Dissolve it over the fire, stiiTing gently all the time. Eub the rind of two large, fresh lemons with six ounces of loaf sugar, and add it, with the strained juice of the lemons, to the hot isin- glass. Pom- the whole gently into a bowl containing a pint of cream or new milk, stii- all together for a short time, then put the liquid into a damp mould. Time, about an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 3s. Sufficient for a quart mould. Lemon Creams (economical).—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a lemon, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and an ounce of gelatine. Stir over a gentle fire untQ the gelatine is dissolved, strain the liquid into a jug, and add to it, very gradually, the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Pour the hquid from ono jug into another xintil it is nearly cold; then add a dessert-spoonfid of lemon-juice, and keep stirring five or six minutes longer. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and lay it in a cool place till .set. Time, a few minutes to boil the milk. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould.