( 240 ) GAM GAM sieve. Mix it with the gnivy and a little cream, Btir it over the flro till hot, aud Horve with cro(niettos of potatoes round the dish. Time, about one hour and a half to jjroparo. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold game. Sufficient, puree made with one pound of game, for three persons. Game, Rissoles of—Take the remains of cold ganu!, remove the skin and gristle, mid pound tlu) meat in a mortar, with one dessert- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, the quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, half a pound of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, and drained, thx-ee table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mush- rooms, a piece of butter, and the yollc of an egg, to every pound of meat. Eiiclose in pastry {sec Rissoles), or, if preferred, make into balls, dredge them with flour, and dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot butter or lard till lightly browned, drain on a little blotting-paper, and serve piled high on a nap- kin. Garnish with parsley, and send brown sauce to table vnth them. Time, ten minutes to fry. Sufficient, one poimd of meat, &c., for three persons. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold game. Game, Salmi of.—A salmi differs from a hash in this, that it is made of game which has been, only partially dressed, whilst a hash consists of game which has been properly cooked and become cold. Carve the meat into neat joints, rejecting the skin and giistle. Put a quarter of a pound of raw, lean ham, finely minced, into a saucepan, with a little butter, a sprig of parsley, two or three shallots, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a blade of mace, and a little salt and cayenne. Let these ingredients stew gently for a few minutes, then mix in smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom powder. Let it brown, and add a breakfast- : cupful of good stock, and a glass of claret. Let i the mixture boil. Put in the bones and trim- ; mings, and simmer over a moderate fire for 1 an hour or more. A small carrot, a bunch I of savoury herbs, and a bay-leaf may be I simmered with the rest. Skim carefully, strain, and when ready to serve, put the joints in with the gravy, and heat all slowly, but it must not boil. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. A sahni should be highly- seasoned. Probable cost, exclusive of the game and wine, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Game, Sauce for.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, with two minced shallots, and six ounces of the shin of beef, cut into small pieces. Fry until lightly and equally browned, and to secure this, turn frequently. Pour on gradually one pint of boihng water, add a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, two bay-leaves, and a little salt and pepper. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little water, add a little browning, if necessary, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Strain, clear well from fat, and boil up again, adding one glass of claret and a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup. Pour a little of the gravy roimd the birds, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Probable cost, '9d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a brace of small birds. Game, Sauce for (another way).—By substituting tlic remains of a roasted partridge iur the beef in the last recipe, a very su- perior sauce may be made. Where game is to be had in plenty this may be a convenience. The flavour will be more completely drawn out if the flesh is picked from the bones and pounded before being stewed. Time, one hour and a haU to stew. Sufficient for a brace of small birds. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the meat and wine. Game, Sauce for (another way).—Take one table-spoonful of lemon-juice, the thin rind of a lemon, and the rind of a Seville orange, being careful to cut away the white part. Put these into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of Espagnole or good brown sauce. Let them simmer gently; then strain and add a tea- cupful of claret and a pinch of salt. Season rather highly with pepper and cayenne. Time, a quarter of an hour, the brown gravy being already made. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Game, Sauce, Piguante, for.—Take the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of salad-oil, stir in with it a little salt and pepper, a mustard- spoonful of made mustard, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup and three dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two small birds. Game Sausages.—Take the remains of game, cut off the meat, remove carefully the skin and sinew, mince the flesh and pound it in a mortar, with six ounces of lean ham, and six ounces of butter to every pound of meat. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Put the mixture into skins and fry in hot butter or lard for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. per poimd, ex- clusive of the cold game. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Game Soup.—This soup may be made of the remains of cold birds which are not required, though, of course, if uncooked, the soup will be better. Pick off all the white meat you can get from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with five or six carrots, a slice of lean ham, a ! little pepper and salt, two or three onions, and i three pints of white stock or water. Simmer gently, and when the turnips are tender, take them out, mix them ^vith the pounded meat, and press them through a tamis. Keep adding a little of the broth, so as to press as much through as possible. Return the broth to the saucepan, and let it get quite hot. A few minutes before serving draw it from the fire, let it cool a little, and mix with it .the wcll- beaten yolks of two eggs, and a cupful of cream. It must not boil after the eggs are added. Time, one hour and a half to stew the bones and trimmings. Sufficient for five per- sons. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold game. Is. for this quantity.