oassell's oookehv Ixvi close as possible to the mould, for if it be poured in a manner cori-espouding to frotliing beer up in a glass it will probably break tiie coloured shaiie. There is a great art in turning out jellies from moulds. Of course, a veiy stifi jelly is easily turned out, but then stiff jelly is never good. The best moulds for jollies ai-e copper ones tinned inside. The mould, after being taken out of the ice, should be placed for a few seco7ids in lukewarm water; the disJi into which tlie jelly is going to be turned should be placed upside down, so that the bottom of the mould comes exactly in the centre of the dish; the two should be quickly turned over together, and very often the jelly will at once slip of its own accord. When the mould is first raised it should be only lifted an eighth of an inch; should tlie jelly have slipped all round, the mould can be slowly raised ; should, however, the jelly have slipped only on one side, instantly put the mould close on to the dish again. One veiy good way of causing the jelly to slip is to take the dish and mould in both hands, keeping the mould firmly touching the dish, and raise the hands high in the air, the mould being upright. Then suddenly bring the dish downwards with a jerk, and stop dead short when the hands are lowered. The jelly itself, liaving of course acquired a momentum downwards, will have a tendency to go lower, and will often by this means slip from the mould into the plate. Indeed, turning out jellies requires a certain amount of pluck : a nervous cook is far more apt to fail tlian a strong-minded one. Some persons think that shaking and patting the mould assists ; very oft^n, however, this patting results in breaking. When earthenware moulds are u'ied it is no use plunging them into warm water. Earthenwai'e conveys heat so slowly that the result would be either to convey so little heat that no effect at all is produced, or so much that all the outside of the mould vrill run. In tuming \nything out cf an earthenware mould the only way is to jerk it out as we have ♦.escribed. If the substance inside the mould is firmly set, it will be advisable to see how far it can be eased round the edge by pulling gently with the tips of the fingers. The substance is elastic, and will adhere together, and can be pulled from the edge of the mould all round, after which it will of course turn out easily. When copper moiilds are used for jellies the greatest care should be taken in dipping them into lukewarm water, first, that the water be not too warm, secondly, that the mould does not remain in too long. Of course the effect is to very slightly dissolve the outside rim—only the rim—so that the jelly will have a less tendency to adhere to the mould. One very useful form of ornamenting sweets is whipped cream or whipped white of egg. Of course whipped cream-is in itself a very nice sweet; whipped white of egg can, however, be used as a cheap substitute. Take, for instance, that most delicious supper dish—a trifle. Good trifle is made by soaking -atafias and macaroons in various kinds of liqueurs, though for ordinary purposes sherry and brandy are used instead. The whip for the trifle is generally best made some time before it is wanted, as by keeping a few hours it gets firmer instead of softer. The firmest whip is made by mixing the whites of eggs beaten up into a stiff froth with say a pint of fresh cream to two whites, three ounces of powdered and sifted white sugar, and about a wine-glassful of some rich sherry—the sweeter the better. The whole should be beaten up into a stiff froth, the froth of course being skimmed off the top when fiuflicient rises, and should be placed gently into a sieve placed on a dish. A little cream, &c., will be found to drop from the froth, and this can be poured back into the basin, the beating or whisking process being continued till all is frothed up. This froth can be made the day before it is wanted, and will be found an exceedingly