JEL JEL ( 341 ) invalids to ascertain whether or not 'wine and lemon-juico are allowed before putting them into the stock. Generally speaking, any yery decided tlavour is objected to, and sugai- should be sparingly used, as sweetness cloys a deli- cate appetite. As, however, the acid and sugar materially assist the clearing of the jelly, it would be well, when these cannot be admitted, to add the white and shell of another egg. In this case, therefore, thi-ee instead of two eggs should be put -with every pint of stock. Change of diet is very desirable for invalids. A pleasing variety may be made by making the jelly savoury instead of sweet. This can be done by stewing with the feet an onion, a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. If a pound of the shin of beef be added to this, a very nourishing jeUy will be produced. Time, five or six hours to stew. Probable cost of feet, 9d. to Is. each. Two feet will make a quart of jeUy. Jelly, FOTir-fruit {see Four-fruit Jelly). Jelly in Orange-skins.—Take four large sound oranges. Cut out a round about an inch iu diameter from the stalk end, and scoop out the contents of the orange very thoroughly with a tea-spoon. Throw the skins into cold water for two or three hours, to harden them, and meanwhile make the juice as clear as possible by straining it through a jelly-bag, and with it some white paper, reduced to a pulp by being washed in several waters. Add an ounce of isinglass dis- soh'^ed in as little water as possible, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and strain the jelly again untU. it is quite clear. Take out the skins, let them drain, and if inadvertently any holes have been made, fill them up vdth butter. Put the jeUy into the orange-skins, and when they are quite cold, cut them into quarters with a sharp knife, pile them on a napkin, and gar- nish them prettily with bright green leaves. The appearance of the fruit is much improved if the oranges are filled with different-coloured jellies, but when this is done, one colour must becoine firm before the next is added. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Jelly, Isinglass Clarified for.—Put an ounce of isinglass into an enamelled sauce- pan with half a pint of water. Bring it slowly to a boil, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half an hour, being careful to stir the isinglass constantly, to prevent it sticking. Remove the scum as it rises, and put it on a sieve which has been moistened with boiling water. A Kttle clear jelly may drain from it, and this may be added to the isinglass. A tea-spoonful of cold water should be put in two or three times to assist the scum in rising. When the jeUy is required exceedingly transparent, a tea-spoonful of beaten white of egg may be added to the water in which the isinglass is dissolved, but when this is done, a little more isinglass should be allowed, as the white of egg has a tendency to weaken it. An ounce of isinglass is usually considered necessary for a pint of juico. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. per ounce. Sufficient, half a pint of water for an ounce of isinglass. Jelly, Li(iueur.—This jelly may be made with mixraschino, noyau, cvira9oa, or any other liqueur. Dissolve two ounces of best Russian isinglass in a pint of water, being careful to remove the scum as it rises, add a pound of loaf sugar, which has been boiled to a syrup with half a piat of water, and also carefully skimmed, the strained juice of a lemon, and a quarter of a pint of liqueur. Mix thoroughly, pour the jeUy through a tamis into a damp mould, and set it iu ice until wanted for use. If the jeUy be very stilf the mould should be dipped for a moment ia boiling water before turning it upon the dish. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass, ten minutes to clarify the sugar. Probable cost, exclusive of the liqueur, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Jelly, Meat, for Pies, Economi9aI. Soak about an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water. Let it swell. Mix half a tea- spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat with a pint of boiling water, and put it into a saucepan with a shallot, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, a clove, the very thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Simmer gently until the flavouring is extracted, add the gelatine, and when this is dissolved, strain the liquid through a bag, add a wine-glassful of white wine, if approved, and put the jelly aside to set. Cut it into dice or use it as required. Time, forty minutes to simmer the gravj^. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a pint and a half of jelly. Jelly, Meat, for Cold Pies.—Scald and prepare a calf's foot, and put it into a stewpan with half a pound of the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, two shallots, a small bunch of savoury herbs, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a lump of sugar, and the thin lind of haK a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and three quarts of cold spring water. Bring the liqtdd to a boil, remove the scum carefully as it rises, and simmer gently for five or six hours. Run the jelly through a bag, and let it stand aside untU cold. Take away the sediment and the fat, and pour the gravy into the pie through an opening in the cover. The flavour of this jelly shoTild be varied with the dish for which it is required. If for a chicken-and-ham pie, the neck, bones, and trimmings of the cliicken should be stewed with the gravy, together with half a poimd of lean, undressed ham, or the lind of bacon soaked, scraped, and cut smaU. If for hare or game pie, the bones and trim- mings of the hare or game should be used. Sufficient for three pints of gravy. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Jelly, Meat, for Pies, Superior.— Take a pound and a half of the knuckle or neck of veal and half a pound of the shin of beef. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of good beef stock; simmer gently for half an hour, then add two pints more stock, and also a shallot, three ounces of undressed lean ham, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of bruised celery- seed tied in muslin, a clove, a small bunch of