NOIT NOT ( 459 ) pudding in a moderate oven. The batter will be better if made an hour or two before it is wanted. Time to bake, a hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Nottingham Pudding (another way).— See Apple Tuddiug, Nottingham. Nougat.—Nougat is a sort of paste made of sugar, alinonds, pistachio nuts, or filberts, and used by confectioners for makiag pretty sweet dishes. A little practice is necessary before it can be well made. The process is as follows:—Blanch one pound of Jordan almonds, dry them well in a soft cloth, cut them into quarters, put them on a baking sheet in a cool oven, and let them remain imtil quite h6t through and lightly browned. When they are nearly ready, put half a pound of sifted sugar into a copper pan, without any water, move it about with a wooden spoon. When it is melted and begins to bubble, stir ia the hot almonds gently, so as not to break them. Have ready the mould which is to be used, slightly but thoroughly oiled, and spread the paste all over it about a quarter of an inch thick. This is the difficult part of the operation, as the nougat hardens very quickly. The pan in which it is should be kept in a warm place, to prevent it stiffening before the mould is finished. It is a good plan to spread out a piece for the bottom of the mould first, and put that in its place, then pieces for the s'des. Care must be taken, however, to make these pieces stick closely together. A cut lemon dipped in oil is a great assistance in spreading the paste. When the nougat is firmly set, turn it out carefully, and serve it on a stand filled with whipped cream, or as required. Time to boil the sugar, till it is well melted. Probable cost, 2s. for a good-sized mould. Nougat, Almond {see Almond Nougat). Nougats (a la Fran9aise).—For dessert.— Prepare the nougat as in the last recipe. If preferred, pistachio kernels may be used instead of almonds, and the sugar may be coloured with cochineal, and flavoured with vanilla. When the paste is ready, spread it out on an oiled slab to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, strew coloured sugar or nonpareil comfits on the surface, mark it into oblong shapes, and cut it before it is cold. It should be stored in a tin box in a dry place until wanted for use, and should be served, piled up prettily, on a napkin. Nougats, Small.—Nougats intended for small moulds should be made in the same way as for large ones, excepting that the almonds should be finely shred instead of being quar- tered. When the paste is ready, put it into the small oiled moulds, and take care that it is pressed into aU the comers. It is well for three or four persons to be engaged at once in filling the moulds, that they may be done as expeditiously as possible, and so be all of one colour, as the nougat gets darker with being melted. Turn the shapes out when set, fill them with whipped cream, and serve, neatlv arranged, on a folded napkin. Probable cost, Jordan almonds, 2s. 6d. per pound; aweet almonds. Is. Nouilles.—Nouilles are made of delicate pastry, cut up into ribands and various shapes, and used as a substitute for vermicelli and macaroni, either in making fritters or puddings, or for serving with cheese, or in soup. They are made as follows:—Take half a pound of fine flour, put it on the pastry-board, make a hole in the centre, and in this put two eggs. Add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of butter, and a tea-spoonful of cold water, and mix aU to- gether into a very firm, smooth paste. Leave it a little while to dry, then roll it out as thin as possible, and cut it into thin bands about an inch and a quarter in width. Dredge a little flour upon these, and lay four or five of them one above another, then cut them through into thin shreds, something like vermicelli; shako them well, to prevent their sticking together, and spread them out to diy. Nouilles cannot be made without a straight rolling-pin and smooth pastry-board. When wanted for use, drop them gradually into boiling water, stirring gently with a wooden spoon to keep them from getting lumpy. Let them boU from six to twenty minutes, then take them up with a strainer, drain them well, and spread them out on a coarse cloth. Besides thread-like nouilles, a few may be made the size and shape of scarlet-runner beans, or small birds' eggs, or they may be cut broad like macaroni. If thoroughly dried, they wiU keep any length of time stored in tin canisters. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Nouilles, Boiled in Milk.—Take three- quarters of a pound of freshly-made nouilles cut very fine and dried. Dissolve a little butter in a stewpan, put in the nouilles, and shake the pan over the fire until they are well browned. Pour over them as much good milk as will cover them well, and let them simmer gently until they are quite soft. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar and three well-beaten eggs, steam a few minutes longer, and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil the nouilles, until soft, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Nouilles, Buttered.—Throw the nomUes into boiling water, and let them boil for three minutes. Take them up with a strainer, put them on a hot dish ; melt some fresh butter in a stewpan ; sprinkle a large handful of bread- crumbs in it, and let them remain until they are lightly browned, then put them upon the nouilles. Clarify a little more butter, if the first portion was dried up in browning the crumbs, and pour it over the dish; serve very hot. Time, ten minutes to boil the nouilles. Nouilles, Fritters of (delicious eaten cold). — Make a poimd of flour into nouilles pastry, as already directed {see Nouilles). Cut it into thin strips; boil a pint and a half of cream or new milk in a saucepan. Dissolve in it six ounces of fresh butter, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar which has been well rubbed upon the rind of a large fresh lemon, [ and a pinch of salt. Drop the pastry into the