CHE ( no ) CHE this mixture upon it, in lumps about the size of a small apple. Press them slightly in the centre, brush them over with egg, and put a tea-spoonful of Gruy^re cheese in small pieces iu the middle. Bake in a hot oven, and serve as hot as possible. If preferred Parmesan cheese may be used instead of Cheshire. Time to bake, about twelve minutes. Sufficient for foiu- or five ramequins. Probable cost, Is. Cheese Ramequins (another way).— Crumble a small stale roll, and cover it with a breakfast-cupful of new milk boiling; let it soak for a quarter of an hour, then strain it, and put it in a mortar with four ounces of Par- mesan cheese and four ounces of Cheshire cheese, both grated, four oimces of fresh butter, half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a small quantity of pounded mace. Pound these ingredients well together with the yolks of four eggs. Have ready some small moulds. Just before they are ready to bake, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a solid froth. Little paper trays may be used to bake the ramequins in. Bather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible. Time to bake, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for twelve cakes. Cheese Sandwich..—Put three ounces of good rich cheese, cut into small pieces, into a mortar with an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and two boned anchovies. Povmd these ingredients to a smooth paste, spread this between two slices of brown bread and butter, and lay over it very thin slices of salt beef, ham, or tongue. Cut the sandwiches into pretty shapes, and arrange them on a napkin garnished with bunches of green parsley. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient, allow one sandwich for each person. Probable cost, 2d. each. Cheese Soup, without Meat.—Grate very finely half a pound of rather diy Gruydre or any other light-coloured cheese; strew a layer of it at the bottom of the soup tureen, and over tliis place two or three very thin slices of the stale crumb of bread. Repeat this until aU the cheese is used, when one-fourth of the depth of the tureen should be occupied. Put a piece of fresh butter about the size of an egg into a saucepan; let it melt, and stir into it, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and let it remain on the fire, stining it constantly, until it browns; then throw in two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onions. When they are browned, stir in gradually, a quart of water, let it. boil, season with pepper and salt, and just before pouring it into the tureen, brown it with a little caramel {see Caramel). Let the soup stand a couple of minutes before the fire to soak the bread and cheese, and when that is done, serve at once. The.contents of the tureen should not be disturbed till it appears on the table. Time, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cheese, Stewed.—This is a good way to uso cheese which has become too dry to serve in the ordinarj- manner. Of course fresh cheese is to be preferred. Put two ounces of good double Glo'ster or Cheshire cheese, chopped small, into a saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, or more if the cheese is very dry. Add sufficient cream or new milk to cover it, and let it simmer gently, stirring it every now and then, until the cheese is dissolved. Take it from the fire for a minute or two, and mix in very gradually a weU-beaten egg. Serve it on a hot dish, and stick little three-cornered sippets of toasted bread in it. Serve as hot as possible. Time to stew, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, if made with milk, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Stewed (another way). —Pro- ceed exactly as above, but instead of covering the sliced cheese in the saucepan with new milk, cover it with ale, porter, or port, and flavour it with mixed mustard and cayenne. Serve as hot as possible. Time to stew the cheese, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the ale or wine. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Stilton. — This cheese is con- sidered by competent judges to be preferable to any other. It should be kept about twelve months in order to ripen it, and many persons endeavour to accelerate this by scooping out a little cheese in three or four places and pouring good port or old ale into it, then stopping the holes again with the cheese, and allowing it to remain two or three weeks. When the cheese is ready to serve, the rind should be cut from the top in a slice about a quarter of an inch in thickness, to be used as a lid, and this should be replaced on the top of the cheese when it is sent from the table. It should be kept closely covered in a rather damp place. It should be served with a clean napkin neatly pinned round it. Prob^le cost. Is. 8d. to 28. per pound. Cheese Straws. — Mix two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of flour, an ounce of Cheddar cheese, and the yolk of an egg into a stiii paste. Flavour the mixture with cayenne, salt, and a very little pounded mace. RoU this out rather thinly, cut it into fingers about four inches long and half an inch wide, bake them for a few minutes in a quick oven, and serve cold. They should be piled on a dish in transverse rows. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Cheese, Toasted.—Slice some good, rich cheese. Put it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plate, and when it is melted, stir into it some made mustard and pepper. A little port or beer is sometimes added, an-d if the cheese is at all dry a little butter should be also used. Toast should be served with it. This dish is worth nothing at aU unless it can be served quite hot. Toasted cheese is sometimes sent to table in little tins with boiling water underneath, and this is an excellent way to keep the toast hot. A few minutes wiU be sufficient to melt the cheese. Cheese, Toasted (another way).—Cut some slices of the crumb of bread about half an inch thick. Toast and butter them well on both