( 189 ) DUO T)epper and salt before it is put on the spit. Put It into a stewpan with the ^'ravj' procm-ed from the roasting, and enough oi beef gravy to cover it; add a seasoning of sage-leaves, lemon thyme, pepper, and salt, with some sliced onion pre- viously fried in butter. When it has stewed twenty minutes, strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, and pour it over the duck, which should have a layer of cabbage to rest on {see Cabbage, Stewed). Mashed turnips or som-krout may be substituted for cabbage. Sufdcient for four or more persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Duck, Stewed, with Green Peas.— Cut off the lind from half a pound of rather lean bacon. Divide it iato pieces of about two inches each way, and fry to a light brown with butter. Dredge in a little flour, and after stirring about three minutes, add a pint of broth, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. The duck should be previously fried or roasted for ten minutes to make it a good colour, then put into the stewpan with the gravy and stewed slowly for an hour and a quarter, or till tender. MeanwMle stew a quart. of peas with butter {see Peas, Green, French Mode of Cooking). Place the ducks and peas on a hot dish, pour over them the gravy strained and thickened, and serve hot. Duck, Stuflibd.—Bone a duck carefully, without breaking the skin. Boil the bones in a small quantity of water, and use the liquor for the gravy. Make a rich stuffing with half a pound of veal, half a pound of good suet, some parsley, chives, and mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper, and make all into a paste with two well-beaten eggs and a Uttle cream. Fill the inside of the duck, cook it en braise {see Duck, Braised), and serve with a ragout of chestnuts prepared with the gravy from the bones. Time, about an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Duck, Roast). Duck, Wild, Hashed.—Carve the duck neatly as helped at table, put the joints into a stewpan with a pint of good brown gravy, add a table-spoonful of Seville orange-juice or lemon pickle, a glass of claret, mixed spice, salt, and cayenne to taste, and thicken with bread- crumbs. Let it get gradually hot, and when on the point of boiling, serve with sippets of toast as a garnish. Any cold wild fowl may be hashed as above, but for pheasants and part- ridges use white wine instead of claret. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Duck, "Wild, Roast.—The essentials to be observed in roasting wild duck are, first, to keep the gravy well in the breast of the bird, and, next, not to lose the flavour through over-dressing. Pluck and draw carefully, wipe out the inside with a clean cloth, cut off the head and neck, and scald the feet, which are either to be rested on each side of the breast or trussed like those of a fowl. Put the duck before a brisk fire for five minutes to brown the outside and protect the prravy, then baste plentifully with butter till done. Dredge with flour to give it a nice frothy appearance, and serve with a gravy in the dish, or in a tureen, if preferred. Make a gravy as follows:—Boil down the necks and gizzards in a pint of water till reduced to half a pmt, or take half a pint of veal gravy, add to it a shce oft" the end of a lemon or orange, an onion, three or fom- leaves of basil, a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt; boil all together, strain, and add a glassful of port wine and the juice of a Seville orange or lemon. Serve hot. Time to roast, twenty to twenty-flve minutes. Probable cost, 48. to 5s. the couple. Allow two for a dish. Duck, with Olives.—This is a simple dish, but much liked in Provence. Cook a duck en braise {see Duck, Braised.) Prepare the gravy in the usual way, adding plenty of mush- rooms after the gravy has been strained. Soak some olives for three hours, remove the stones, put them into the gravy and boil up quickly. Then put in the duck and simmer twenty minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time to braise and stew, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ducklings, Roasted.—Make a stuffing thus:—Boil four middle-sized onions ten or twelve minutes, and chop them very fine; add a table-spoonful of bread-criuhbs, equal quantities of powdered sage, pepper, and flour of mustard—half a salt-spoonful of each—a tea- spoonful of brandy, and an ounce or more of dis- solved butter, with salt to taste; or if preferred the following stuffing may be used:—Two ounces of bread-crumbs, the same of butter, a little chopped parsley, two leaves of sage powdered, a small bit of lemon-peel, three shallots, with pepper and salt. Roast the ducks before a quick fire, give them steady basting for about half an hour, then serve with the gravy dripped from them, and a good squeeze of lemon-juice add stock if required, with a tea-spoonful of soy, a little cayenne, or any sauce preferred, and when Ishickened send to table in a tureen. Duke of Norfolk's Pudding.—Take six eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, beat up the yolks with a glassful of brandy, and flavour well wdth nutmeg and sugar. Boil a large cupful of the best Carolina rice in a pint of Madeira for half an hour; add one dozen ratafia cakes and the egg mixture, and beat all together. Have ready a dish lined with puff paste, and bake slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, without Madeira or brandy, Is. This quantity is sufficient for five or six persons. Duke of Northumberland's Pud- ding.—Take of bread-crumbs, currants, and finely-fihred suet, each six ounces; of candied peel, mixed, one ounce. Beat up six eggs, leav- ing out the whites of two; add six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a grated nutmeg, and the whole of the rind of a lemon, also grated. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended and beaten, butter a mould or basin, and boil the pudding three hours. Serve with a sauce as follows:—Into about a quarter of a pint of melted butter pour a glass of brandy or sherry, and the juice of a lemon, and add two ounces of loaf sugar, on which the rind of the lemon has been rubbed off. Stir the sauce when