( 138 ) CHB CIN quite absorbed, thon add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, lialf a jjouud of linoly-ahrod beof suot, half a pouud of muscatol raiHias, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and half of the thill riud of u lumou chopped Binall. Mix all well together, thou add four well-beaten eggs, and boil at least five hours. Servo with good melted butter, mixed with a little sugar, and, if liked, the jiuco of a lemon. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for foiu- or five persons. Christopher North's Sauce for Meat or Gravy.—Put a dessort-spoou- t'ul of sifted loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a heaped salt-spoouful of cayenne popper into a jar. I^Iix them thoroughly, thon add to them very gradually two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a table-spoonful of fresh lemon- juice strained, and a glass of port. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until quite hot, but do not let it boil. If bottled when it is made, it will keep good for sevei-al days. It may be used for ducks, geese, j)ork, or any broil. If the flavour of cayenne is liked, the quantities may be doubled. The sauce should be made the night before it is used. Time to heat, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., for tliis quantity. Sufficient for a quai'ter of a pint of sauce. Cider Cup. — Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of a large jug; grate half a small nutmeg over it, and place on it two or three slices of thin lemon-rind and half a dozen limips of sugar. Pour over it two Mine-glassfuls of sherry, one of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda-water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and add a few lumps of pure ice. This should be used as soon as it is made. Time to make, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy, sherry, and cider. Sufficient for a two- quart cup. Cider Vinegar.—Put half a pound of sugar into a half gallon jar. Pill it with. cider. Shake it well, and let it ferment for three or four months; the result will be two quarts of good, nicely-flavoured vinegar. Probable cost, od. per pint. Cinnamon Biscuits.—Whisk six eggs with half a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and a wine- glassful of rose or orange-flower water. Add about half a pound of flour, to form a paste. lioU this out thin, cut it into little cakes in fancy shapes, and bake them on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Bake them for about twenty minutes, when they will be lightly bro'micd. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for an ordinary dessert-dish. Cinnamon Cake.—Poat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, and stir in half a pound of finely-sifted sugar, eight ounces of fine flour, and half a pound of good butter, oiled but not hot. Mix these lightly together, then add powdered cinnamon enough to colour the cake slightly. Pour the mixture into a well-but- tered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one moderate-sized cake. Cinnamon Cake (another way).—Mix tliorouglily Imlf a jjuund of powdered sugar, half li pound of line flour, half a pound of fr..-Kh butter, a quarter of an ounce of jiowdored cin- namon, the grated ])eel of a quarter of a Biiiall lemon, and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a solid froth. If jjrefori'ed, a glass of brandy or rum may bo added. Pour the mixtuie into a buttered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Two eggs and a cui>ful of sour cream may be used instead of eight eggs, and the mixtui-e may be spread on a flat, well-buttered tin, instead of being put into a mould. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, la. lOd. Sufli- cient for a quart mould. Cinnamon Cordial.—Pour three penny- worth of oil of cinnamon upon eight or nine large lumps of sugar, and put them into a large bottle with a quart of spirits and half a pound of sugar boiled to a syrup, with a cupful of water. Shake all well together, and let thcj bottle remain in a cool place for a few days; then strain or filter the liquid until it becomes bright and clear. Bottle for use. Time to infuse, a week. Probable cost, micertain, de- pending on the spirits. Sufficient for one quart of cordial. Cinnamon Drops.—Mix half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, or half a tea-s2)oonful of oU of cinnamon, with a pound of pounded sugar and half a pint of water; boil the syrup to a candy height or until it snaps when put into cold water; then spread it on a large flat dish, well oiled, and score it, before it hardens, into small squares, or drop it evenly on paper. Time to boil, aboi^t a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Cinnamon, Essence of. — Put two drachms of oU of cinnamon into four oimces of strong spirit. Bottle for use. Sufficient, two or three dx'ops will flavour half a pint of sauce or liquid. Cinnamon Ice Cream.—Mix half an ounce of powdered cinnamon vnth. half a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of new milk; boil the custard over a slow fire, stirring it all the time imtil it thickens ; then add one pint of thick cream and the juice of a small lemon. Pour into a mould and freeze. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Cinnamon Sauce.—Boil a stick of cin- namon, which has been broken into a dozen pieces, in half a pint of water for half an hour; add two glassfuls of sherry, two bay- leaves, and two table-spoonfids of pounded sugar. Simmer gently for ten minutes, strain, and serve. Probable cost, exclusive of the M-ine, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Cinnamon Tablet.— This is made in the same waj- as cinnamon drops, but instead of being scored into small squares or fonncd into drops, it is marked into squares of about one iuch and a half.