BIS SLA Raspbekky Sugau Ratafia SwAlilAN Rice Sweet Rock Swiss Russian Tea Savoy Venetian Sicilian "Victoria Soda Vienna Spanish Wafer Spice Nuts Water Sponge Wine. Biscuits, Hard—Warm half a pound of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make four pounds of flour into a very stiff paste. Beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it until it becomes perfectly smooth. Roll it very thin,, and cut icto biscuits with a tin shape or a large cup. Prick them freely with a fork, and bake for six or eight minutes in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Plain.—Make one pound of flour into a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg well beaten in a little milk. Too much milk will make the biscuits thin and heavy. Beat the paste and knead till smooth. Roll out thin, and with a round tin-cutter form into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven. Time, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per poimd. Bishop Oxford Nightcap.—Take two drachms each of cloves, mace, ginger, cinnamon, and allspice, boil them for thirty minutes in half a pint of water, and strain. Put part of a bottle of port in a saucepan over the fire, add the spiced infusion and a roasted lemon stuck with six cloves. Take four ounces of sugar in lumps and grate the outer rind of a small lemon, place them in a punch-bowl, and add the juice of the lemon, pour in the hot wine, &c., then the remainder of the bottle of port, and serve. A Seville orange may be roasted instead of a lemon. Blackberry Jam.—This will be found a cheap and wholesome preserve, and if mixed with apples will be greatly relieved of the in- sipid flatness frequently complained of. Any sharp-flavoured apple will do, but the Wel- lington or Dumeloro's seedling is particularly recommended for this purpose. Blackberries alone require half their weight in sugar, and three-quarters of an hour to boil, but when mixed with apples more sugar must be given. Blackberry Syrup.—Press out the juice from very ripe blackberries, and to each pint add one pound of brown sugar boiled in a pint of water to a rich sjrrup; allow it to boil for fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring it well; put a wine-glassful of brandy to each quart. When quite cold bottlo for use. Probable cost, without brandy. Is. 6d. per quart Blackberry Wine.—Put any quantity of blackberries into a jar or pan, cover them with boiling water, and allow them to stand in a cool oven aU night to draw out the juice ; or they may be mashed with the hand. Strain through a sieve into a jar or cask, and let it ferment for fifteen days. Then add one pound of sugar to every gallon of juice, with a quarter of a pint of gin or brandy. The berries should be gathered ripe and on a fine dry day. Pro- bable cost of blackberries, from 8d. to 3 s. per gallon. Black Cap Pudding.—Make a good batter pudding. Pick and wash a quarter of a pound of currants, which lay at the bottom of a mould previously well buttered; pour the batter in over them and boil two hours. When turned out the currants will be on the top; this forms the black cap. Probable cost of custard per pint, 7d. Black Caps {see Apple Black Caps). Blaok Cock, Roasted.—This bird is hard, dry, and flavouiless, if not well hung; but the flavour is remarkably fine when it has been kept until it shows some little symptom of having been himg enough. Pick and draw, but do not wash the inside; a dry cloth will be all that is necessary. Truss it like a fowl. Some like the head under the wing, but the former mode is most general. Place it before a brisk fire, and baste unsparingly with butter tiU done. It will take nearly one hour, if a fine male bird, but three-quarters of an hour will be enough for one of moderate size. Dip a piece of thick toast into a little lemon-juice, and lay it in the dripping-pan under the bird ten minutes before it is to be taken from the fire. Serve with the toast under, and a rich brown gravy and bread sauce. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. to 6s. per brace. Black Cock, Stewed.—Joint the black cock in the same way as an ordinary fowl, and fry in plenty of butter until nicely browned, with a clove of garHc, which should be removed before the stewing is commenced. Put a small wine-glassful of stock and two of port wine, and a seasoning of salt and pepper into the frying- pan with the butter, make a nice gravy, then put the black cock into a stowpan, throw the gravy over, and simmer very gently about half an hour, or until tender. Serve the meat high on the dish, and the gravy with sippets of toast around it. Old birds are best done in this way; they require more time. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. to 6s. per brace. Black Currant Cheese.—Gather the fruit on a d^y day, and when the sun is on it. See that it is quite ripe, and remove the stalks and tops. Take equal quantities, by weight, of good loaf sugar—the best is the cheapest—and of currants; place them in a pre- serving-pan over a slow fire, or by the side of the fire, till the sugar has dissolved a little, then bring it gradually to a boU, stirring it carefully all the time, and removing the scum. Simmer for an hour or more, when the currants may be passed through a hair sieve, and it is ready for putting into moulds for use. Pro- bable cost, about Is. 3d. per pound. Black Currant Geneva Liquor.— Get a large stone jar, with a small mouth, break some sugar-candy into small pieces, and put one pound of candy to each quart of fruit into it. Add two or three cloves and a pint and a half of gin; cork the jar tightly and