ORA ( 478 ) ORA Orange Marmalade (nuick way. of muking).—Take equal woights of orangcH and loaf sugar. Boil tho rindB of tho oraugea until thoy arc (luito soft. While tlusy aru Btowiug, divide tho fruit into quarters, and serapo out tho pulp and juico with tho handle of a fork or spoon. Minco the rinds of tho oranges very finely, mix with them the pulp, juico, and sugar, and put all into a preserving-pan. Jiring the njai-malado to the point of boiling, then leave it on the firo for three minutes oiily. Pour it into jars, cover, and store for use. No water is _ used with this marmalade. Time, throe minutes to boil tho marmalade. Probable cost of Seville oranges, Ss. or 68. per hundred. Orange Marmalade and Bread Pudding.—Butter a plain quai-t mould rather thickly. Spread a little orange miirmalado over the bottom, lay on it a thin slice of bread and butter, and repeat untU the mould is three parts full. Pour in a custard made Avith a pint of milk and three well-beatcn eggs. Let the bread soak in this for an hour, then cover the pudding closely, and steam it over hot water untU it is firm. Let the pudding stand for a minute before turning it out, and serve with sweet sauce. Time, half an hoirr to steam the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding.—Shred six ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half a pound of orange marmalade, two table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, an ounce of candied peel chopped small, a pinch of salt, three weU- beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. Put the mixture into a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it keep boiling unto, it is done enough. Turn out care- fully, and serve with wine sauce. If preferred, this pudding may be boiled in a mould, but care must be taken that the mould is qixite filled with the mixture ; or it may be steamed. Time to boil or steam the pudding, four hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding (another way).—Mix six ounces of grated broad-crumbs with three ounces of finely-shred beef suet. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, half an ounce of candied lemon- peel chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new milk. Take a well-buttered mould, spread a layer of the mixture at the bottom, then put a layer of orange marma- lade, and repeat until the mould is fuU, being careful to let the mixture be at the top of the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven, and turn out before ser\'ing. Time, two hours to bake the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Orange Marmalade Pudding, Baked.—Mix a large table-spoonful of orange marmalade with two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered loaf sugar, two ounces of clarified butter, and a dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Beat the mixture wcU until it is quite free from lumps, then add two woU-whiskod oggs; line a pie- disli with good pulf-padto, poui- iu the uUxture, and bake in a brisk oven. If prefened, the Hour nuiy bo oiuitted. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Gd. Sufficient for two or tliree pcn;onH. Orange Marmalade with Honey.— Hub the oranges witli a soft cloth, ycvl them, throw the rinds into cold water, and boil until they are quite tender; then drain, and cut them into veiy thin strips about an inch long. Se]jarate the pulp and juice from the inner skin and tho pips, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of the cut rinds and one pound of honey to every pint of pulp. Boil the marmalade gently, Btiiring it frequently, and when the proper wjnsistency is attained pom- it into jars; cover these closely, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil tho manna- lade. Probable cost of oranges, 6s. or Gs. per hundred; honey, lOd.-per pound. Orange or Lemon Shrub.—Make a syrup by boiling a quart of strained orange or lemon-juice with four pounds of Dowdered loaf sugar. When quite clear, add a pint of rum to each half pint of syrup. Put the mixture into a perfectly sweet dry cask, and shake it twice a day for a fortnight; leave it for six ■W^eeks, when it may be drained ofE, and bottled. Time, two months to prepare. Orange-peel.—The recent and dried peel of the orange, as well as that of the lemon and citron, is much in demand for flavouring pur- poses. Under the name of chips, lemon and orange-peel preserved in sugar are eaten. Wo meet with chips preserved in sugar, moist, under the name of " candied" peel. Orange-peel, Candied. — Dii-ide the fruit into quai'ters lengthwise, and remove the pulp; or, if preferred, take any pieces of orange rind which are not required, proAndod only that they are large enough. Throw them into salt and water sufficiently strong to beai- an egg, and let them infuse for six days. Drain them well, throw them into cold water for an hour, and afterwards place them in a preser^dng-pan with as much cold water as will cover them, and let them boil until they are so tender that they can be easily pierced with a fork or skewer. Drain them agaiu, and boil them in a thin syrup, made in the proportion of a pint of water to half a pound of loaf sugar, until they look clear, which will be in about half an hour. Boil some sugar, with as much water as it wiU absorb, to a clear sj-rup. There should be enough to cover the orange rinds when they are thrown in. Boil them imtil the sugar candies, then take them out, di-ain them, sift a little powdered sugar over them, and place them in a wann place to dry; then store for use. Time, a week to prepare. Probable cost of oranges, from 8d. to Is. per dozen. Orange-peel for Flavouring.—"^^7^en orange yecl cannot be obtained for flavouring, a substitute mav be prepared aa follows :—ilix one drachm of the essential oil of oi-ango with a quarter of a pint of spirits of I'ut the essence into small bottles, and cork closely.