MUL (430) MUL made use of to give a dark tinge to liqueurs and confections. When properly prepared and fermented, the fruit yields a pleasant vinous liquor, widely known by the name of mulberry wine. In the cider countries the fruit is occasionally mixed with apples to form a beverage called mulberry cider. Mulberries, Preserved.—Simmer the mulberries in a jar, as directed in the recipe for MulbeiTy Syrup, and strain the juice. Put a pint of this into a preserving-pan, with two pounds and a half of sugar in small lumps; stir until the sugar is dissolved. Keep it boiling for about five minutes, skimming carefully, then add two pounds of the fruit, without any bruised berries. Move them gently in the syrup, and let the pan stand by the side of the fire until the preserve is hot through, then boil very gently for half an hour, and put them by to cool until next day. This would be best done in an earthenware or enamelled pan, as the shifting from one vessel to another is likely to break the fruit. Boil again next day. The syrup, when cold, should be firm ; test it before the pots are filled. INIulbeiTies are not often bought, as they are not produced plenti- fully in England. The preserve is refreshing and cooling, and the syrup, when mixed with water, is efficacious in cases of sore thi-oat. Mulberry Syrup.—Get the juice from quite ripe mulberries, put them into a jar, and set the jar in a not verj' hot oven, or, which is better, in a vessel of boiling water, and, as the juice separates from the fruit, pour it off, and when sufficiently done, strain through a sieve without pulping the mulberries. Boil the juice, allowing to each pint a pound of good loaf sugar; skim, and when cold, put into bottles, and cork tightly. Time, three-quarters of an hour to extract the juice. Boil to a thick syrup. Mulberry Vinegar.—Put six poimds of ripe mulberries into an earthenware pan, and pour over them vinegar to cover. When they have soaked twenty-four hours, bruise them with a wooden spoon, and cover with a cloth for another twenty-four hours; bruise, and mix well; add more viuegar, until nearly a gallon has been poured upon them. When they have stood a week (they should be stirred daily during the time), strain off the vinegar, to every pint add a pound of loaf sugar, and boil and skim well for five minutes. To be used like raspberry vinegar. Mulberry Water.—Put a pound of mul- berries into a basin, and cover them with lump sugar, coarsely powdered; crush them together, then pour over them a pint of water, and filter through a fine sieve. Mulberry water is most refreshing as a drink in cases of fever. Mullagatawny Soup.—This is soup of any kind fiavoured with curry powder. It is highly stimulating, gives tone and vigour to the digestive organs, and is frequently accept- able in very hot or very cold climates. Never- theless we do not recommend its frequent use, though it may occasionally be resorted to on festive occasions. When made in India, the curry powder is largely mixed with coriander. cassia, cayenne pepper, black and white pepper, curineric, garhc mixed with lemon-acid or sour apples, mangoes, tamarinds, or other acidulouH fruit; but it is now needless to prepare and mix all these ingredients, as a large or small bottle of well-jirepared curries, to suit any palate, may be purchased at any oilman's store. If a plain curry or mullagatawny soup is preferred, mix the powder with equal quan- tity of browned flour and a little cold stock or broth, which may be put in with the meat of the soup half an hour before serving. Soft meats, fowl, &c., may be wholly stewed in this curry stock, though the finer sorts of curries will not admit of this, mangoes, tamarinds, ice, taking only a few minutes; but the experienced cook will readily distinguish and determine on such additions. With a plain curry there should be a flavouring of lemon-acid just before serving. It is almost impossible to define precisely what should be the several ingredients of the more complex curries—the cook must study the likings of the guests—some do not like coriander-seed, others dislike garlic; cassia in some cases is disagreeable ; though, when all those ingredients are carefully pro- portioned with just sufficient cayenne to stimu- late, it should be found a most enjoyable soup. The housekeeper will readily understand that any good stock soup may be converted into mullagatawny or curry soup, but as it usually occupies considerable space in every cookerj'- book, we add a few examples, pointing from the simple soup above mentioned to more expensive dishes. Mullagatawny Soup (another way).— See Indian Mullagatawny Soup. Mullagatawny Soup, Calf s Head.— Prepare a calf's head as for mock-turtle, put it into a stewpan with a cow-heel, cover with four quarts of water, and boil until tender. MTien cold cut off the meat from the bones, and browTi them lightly in a Little butter, with four shred onions. Put the meat back into the stock, and add curry, flavoured to taste. This time it will bear more cayenne, Harvej^'s sauce, or any other sauce that may be esteemed. Rice in a separate dish should always accompany mnlla- gata%vny soup. Mullagatawny Soup, Fowl.—Boil a fowl in good veal stock, or with a knuckle of veal and half a pound of minced ham. "When the fowl is nearly done take it and the knuckle out, strain the stock, cut up the fowl into convenient-sized pieces, and replace with the stock. Then add a table-spoonful of curry, flavoured to taste, a cupful of curds, a little salt and an ounce of butter for each quart of soup. Mullagatawny, Household. — Soak two pounds of tinned mutton in two quarts of water. Fry two apples, two onions, two turnips, two leeks, and a bimch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking; boil for half an hour. Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour and one of currj' powder with cold water. Stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat. Boil for three hours. Press the whole through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice. Servo with a dash of lemon. Time to simmer UK-at, four hours.