( 402 ) KAJ is a good strong moal, and quite sufficient us breakfast or supper for man to work upou." Majesty Biscuits.—Blanch and pound well two ounces of bitter and two ounces of sweot almonds, liub into a pound of flour the same quimtity of butter, add one pound of crushed lump sugar, and the pounded almonds, and moisten the whole with one egg. Drop the mi,\ture on a buttered tin, in pieces not larger th an a Barcelona nut, and bake in a slow oven imtil the biscuits are of a pale yellow colour. When taken out of the oven they will be soft, but will harden and be quite crisp when cold. Thoy must then bo put into a tin canister, and vdll keep for months. Time, ton minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. a pound. The above ingredients are sufficient to make three pounds )f biscuits. Malabar Curry.—Mix together a table- spoouf ul of cui-ry powder and half that quantity of flour; cut a fowl into neat pieces, and cover these with the mixture. Shred an onion, and brown it in a stewpan with a good lump of butter; put the pieces of fowl into the same hutter, add more if necessary, and when thoy have nearly absorbed the butter, moisten with a cup of good white stock or broth, and shake the pan for a minute or two, when pour in the remainder of a pint, and stew until done. Part of a rasped cocoa-nut will greatly improve the curry ; it helps also to thicken it. Grate it just before it is wanted, and mix it well into the cuiTy by shaking the pan over the fire. Just before serving, flavour with half the juice of a lemon and half a wine-glassful of vinegar. Season with salt, and send plain boiled rice to table in a separate dish. Serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four persons. Malaprop Cake.—Break four fresh eggs, and divide the yolks and whites. Put the yolks into separate cups, and beat them well. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth. Turn eight ounces of butter to cream, and blend with it eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Stir these ingre- dients, and continue to mix until the egg-yolks have been added one by one, and then, very gradually, add eight ounces of dry flour. Lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs. Put any flavouring desired. If essence, put a few drops with the cream, but a table-spoonful of grated lemon-peel may be mixed with the floirr. Line the tin with a buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven for one hour. Probable cost. Is. 7d. The above quantities are sufficient for one cake. Malay Curry {see Currj^ Malay). Malmsey.—The genuine malmsey wines of commerce possess a luscious sweetness, and A most peculiar bouquet. They are mostly the produce of Sardinia, Sicily, Provence, Teneriffe, the Madeiras, the Azores, and the Lipari Isles. Malmsey wine is made from grapes groT^Ti on rocky ground, and exposed to the full light and heat "of the sun; the fruit is allowed to hang on the vines for a month longer than if required for making dry wines, by which time it is par- tially withered. Malmsey, Scotch.—This is a good hom«. made wine. Get from a stnjng bcjer brewtir six gallons of Bwoot fresh woils, or the; Kam« quantity of pot alv from a diMtill(;r. To this add as imicli water, and to (jvery gallon of liipior put two pounds of sugar, or one of sugar and one of good honey. Ferment, after mixing in the sugar well, and let the liquor remain a month in the cask, keojjing it full. In the meantime, soak four pounds of the best raisins, and twelve pounds of bitter almondh, both chopped, in a quart of flavourless whiskey; add this, and an ounce of isinglass melted in wine, to the liquor in the cask when it is cleared by fermentation. J\lix well, and put into botthii after a month or six weeks. Malt Liquor.—(To brew ale). The uten- sils required are, first, a copper that ■will con- tain at least forty gallons. Second, a mashing- tub, to contain sixty gallons; for the malt is to be put into this along with the water. It must be a little broader at top than at bottom, and not quite so deep as it is wide at the bottom. In the middle of the bottom there is a hole about two inches over, to draw the wort oft'. Into this hole goes a stick, a foot or two longer than the tub is high. This stick is to be about two inches through, and tapered for about eight inches upwards at the end that goes into the hole, which at last it fills up as closely as a cork. Before anything else is put into the tub, lay a little bundle of fine birch, about half the bulk of a birch-broom, and well tied at both ends. This being laid over the hole (to keep back the grains as the wort goes out), put the tapered end of the stick down through it into the hole, and thus cork the hole up. Then have something of weight sufficient to keep the birch stead)' at the bottom of the tub, with a hole through it, to slip do^vn the stick; the best thing for this purpose will be a leaden collar for the stick, with the hole large enough, and iu should weigh three or four pounds. Third, an underback, or shallow tub, to go imder the mash-tub for the wort to run into when drawn from the grains. Fourth, a tun-tub, that will contain thirty gallons, to put the ale into to work, the mash-tub serving as a tun-tub for the small beer. Besides these, a couple of coolers, or shallow tubs, about a foot deep; or if three or four it may be as well, in order to effect the cooling more quickly. The following is the process of brewing ale as described by the cele- brated William Cobbett:—" Begin to brew by filling the copper with water, and next by making the water boil. Then put into the mashing-tub water sufficient to stir and sepa- rate the malt. The degree of heat that the water is to be at, before the malt is put in, is 170 degrees by the thermometer; but, without one, take this rule; when you can, looking down into the tub, see your face clearly in the water, the water is hot enough. Now put in the malt, and stir it well in the water. In this state it should continue for about a quarter of an hour. In the meanwhile, fill up the coi)per and make it boil; and then put in boiling water sufficient to giw eighteen gallons of ale. "\Mien the proper quantity of water is in, stir the malt again well, and cover the ma.shing-tub over