LEM ( 377 ) LEM is dissolved. Put all together into a jug, and leave it for tin hour or two. Then mix, strain, aud freeze in the usual way. iServo in glasses. The ice will be much improved if, when it is beginuin^; to set, tlie wliites of three eggs, beaten to a firm froth, and mixed with six ounces of powdered sugar, are stirred into it. The preparation should be left in the ice until wanted. Sufficient for ten persons. Lemon Whey.—Put half a pint of milk in a siiucepau. When it boils, pour, in a table- spoonful of lemon-j nice ; add more if this does not eifectually tui-n the milk. Let it boil up, then put it into a bowl to settle; strain and sweeten, and add a little hot -water if the whey is too acid to be agreeable. This whey is ex- telleut for inducing perspiration. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for rather less than half a pint of whey. Lemon, Whole, To Keep for Use. —Put a layer of dry tine sand, an inch in depth, at the bottom of an eai'then jar. Place a row of lemons upon this, stalks downwards, and be careful that they do not touch each other. Cover them with another layer of sand, fully three inches in depth, lay on it more lemons, and repeat until the jar is full. Store in a cool dry place. Lemons thus preserved will keep good for a twelvemonth. Lemon Wine.—Put the thin rind of five lemons into a tub. Pour over them a sjTup made by boiling four quarts of water Avith four pounds of sugar for thii-ty minutes. When t^uite cold, add the strained juice of ten lemons, i'laco a toast covered with, j'east on the top, and let the liquid stand for a day or two, until fer- mentation begins, then take out the rind, put liie liquor into a cask, and keep it filled up to the top until it has ceased working, when i: must be bunged down closely. In three i!ionths it will be ready for botthng. If pre- ferred, the peel of the lemon can be omitted. This wine should be made at the beginning of the year, when lemons are cheapest and best. Probable cost, 2s. Gd. Sufficient for a gallon and a half of wine. Lemon Wine, Quickly Made.—Boil a quart of water with a pound of loaf sugar until the sugar is dissolved, then add half an ounce of citric acid. When the liquid is cool, stir in with a silver spoon twelve drops of essence of lemon and eight drops of spii-its of v/ine. Colour with a little saffron. Time, an liour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for three pints of wine. Lemonade.—Boil a quart of. -water with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and ^our the syrup over the rind of six lemons. Let thom soak for two or three hours. Add the strained juice of the lemons and two quarts 'it water. Pass the whole through a jelly-bag, md serve in glass jugs. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for seven pints of lemonade. Lemonade, Acidulated {see Acidulated Lemonade). Lemonade, Economical.—Slice four irjsh lemf)n.s, and be careful to remove the pips and the thick white skin. Put them, with the ! . rind, into a jug, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and pour upon them a quart of boiling water. Cover closely, and -when the lemonade is cold, it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for throe pints of lemonade. Or, prepare two lemons as above, and put them into a jug with six oi ices of moist sugar and an ounce of cream of tartar. Pour two quarts of boiling water upon them, and let the liquid stand until cold. Time, two hours to infuse. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for five pints of lemonade. Lemonade, Effervescing.—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of strained lemon- juice imtil the sugar is dissolved. Pour the* sjTup out, and when it is cold put it into bottles, and cork closely. ^Vhen wanted for use, put a table-spoonful into a tumbler three- pai'ts full of cold -water. Stir in briskly twenty grains of carbonate of soda, and di-ink during effervescence. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a little more than a quart of syrup. Lemonade for Invalids.—Squeeze the juice out of a tine lemon. Strain it, put it with a quarter of the rind and three or four lumps of loaf sugar into a jug, and pour over it a pint of boiling water. Cover closely, and let thejemonade stand for two hours. At the end of that time strain, and it will be ready for -use. Lemonade for iuA'alids should be made with boiling -«-ater, as the unhealthy properties of the lemon are thus destroyed. A small quantity only of sugar should be put in, unless a desire to the contrary is expressed, as the acidity -wiU most likely be agreeable. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of lemonade. Lemonade for Invalids (another way). —See Invalid's Lemonade. Lemonade Milk.—Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in three-quaiiers of a pint of water. Add three-quarters of a pint of cold milk, a quarter of a pint of strained lemon- juice, and a quarter of a pint of any light wine. Mix thoroughly, and pass the liquid through a jelly-bag. Time, half an hour to j)repare. Probable cost, about 6d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three pints of lemonade. Lemonade Milk (another way).— See Milk Lemonade. Lemonade, Mock.—Put half a dozen drops of essence of lemon upon six ounces of loaf sugar, and add a quarter of an ounce of tartaric acid. Pour a quart of boiling water upon them, and roix thoroughly. Time, about three minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a quart of lemonade. Lemonade, Nourishing. — Pub the yellow rind of two fresh lemons upon three or four lumps of sugar. Put them into a jug, add five ounces of loaf sugar, and pour over them a pint of boiling water. Wlion cool, strain the liquid, and stir into it a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice, a quarter of a pint of sherry, and foirr well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, and the lemonade is ready for use. Time, about an hoiu- to prepare. Probable cost.