DEV ( 186 ) DOB Devonshire Buns.—rropare a quantity of tiour iis directed in the recipes for buns, but instead of milk use Devonshire cream, which if too thick, should be diluted with warm water or milk, caro being taken that the dough fer- ments in the usual way. If in doubt, prepare the dough first, and add cream as you would butter, and bake in the ordinary way. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for eighteen buns. Devonshire Cake.—Pnt four pounds of flour into an eiirthenwaro pan, and rub well into it one pound of clotted cream or butter beaten to a cream. Add three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of lemon-peel cut small, and a little nutmeg. Beat up two eggs, and add them to the mixture, with a pint of milk, half a drachm of suifron steeped in boiling water, and a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. The milk should be only moderately warm; if too hot the cake will be heavy. Mix all together, and cover till next morning, when it will be ready to put into tins containing about a pound and a half. Bake in a quick oven for an houi* and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to make six cakes. Devonshire Clotted Cream.—; The highly esteemed clotted cream of Devonshire is procured by straining the milk, as it comes fresh from the cow, into large metal pans, which are placed in a cool dairy, and kept unmoved for twenty-four houi's in winter and half that time in summer. It is then scalded over a charcoal fire, the time for scalding depending on the heat of the fire and the quantity of milk to be scalded; the slower it is done, the better and the thicker will he the cream. It is skimmed the following day. A great quantity of this cream is sent to the London market, where it fetches a high price. Devonshire Junket.—Mix half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon with a heaped table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Pour over these a wine-glassful of brandy, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add one quart of quite new nulk with a dessert-spoonful of rennet. If the milk cannot be procured fresh from the cow, heat it until it is new-milk warm. Stir it well, and let it remain until it is set, then spread some clotted cream on the top, and strew sifted sugar over. Time, about two hours to set the milk. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy and cream. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Take two pounds of chops from a neck of mutton. Cut them short, and pare away some of the fat. Peel, core, and slice about two pounds of well- flavoured sour apples. Put a layer of them in the bottom of a pie-dish with a little sugar, and a sprinkling of ground allspice. Place the chops next, and season with salt, pepper, and finely- chopped onion. Continue with alternate layers of apples and meat till all be used up. Make an ordinary meat crust, line the edges of the dish, and cover over the top, adding a quarter of a pint of gravy or water. Bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for six or seven |;>er8on8. Devonshire Syllabub.—In the country where milk is to be had pure and direct from its source, syllabubs are to be seen on every table varied with the delicious far-famed Devonshire junket. The quantity of wine in- tended to bo used for the syllabub is firet put into a large China bowl with sugar to taste. It is then milked on till the bowl is full, and afterwards when cold, it is covered with clotted cream. A little grated nutmeg, or ; pounded cinnamon (or both may be used) is > sprinkled over the top when served. A pint of . port and one of sherry will make a large and ' excellent syllabub. I Devonshire White - Pot.—This is a very wholesome but old-fashioned preparation of milk and flour varied with the addition of eggs. The milk and flour are mixed to a batter, which is then put into an oven, or simply boiled, and eaten with sugar. A more modem white- pot is made as follows:—Beat eight eggs, and add them to one quart of cream, flavour with sugar and nutmeg, and pour the mixture on some slices of fine bread. Tie down the dish with a paper, first placing bits of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour or more. Dombey Pudding.—Grate off the rind of a lemon with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, put it, with half a pint of cream, in an enamelled saucepan. When hot, stir in six table-spoon- fuls of bread-crumbs, one of flour, three of finely-chopped beef suet, and one of marrow. Stir and boil the mixture for ten minutes. Throw it out into a basin to cool. Take two ounces of currants, one of sultanas, and two ounces of stoned muscatel raisins, mince the latter with two ounces of candied orange-peel, and mix all together with four well-beaten eggs, adding graduaUj' a wine-glassful of orange- wine, one of rum, and a little nutmeg. Stir for fifteen minutes; the pudding should then be turned into a well-oiled mould, previously de- corated according to fancy with raisins, currants, and peel, and either boiled quickly three hours, or baked in a moderate oven for two hours. Send to table with the following sauce poured over it:—Three ounces of loaf sugar, and the juice of two oranges boiled until thick, with half a wine-glassful of rum added afterwards. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight persons. Dory or Caper Sauce.—Blend two ounces of butter with one table-spoonful of flour, and stir it into a saucepan containing the third part of a pint of boiHng water, add equal quantities of shrimps and capers pounded, about two dessert-spoonfuls of each, and boil for some minutes; then remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and stir in till dissolved an ounce more of butter, and two tea-spoonfuls of whole capers. Serve in a tureen. Dory, Boiled.—Cut off the fins, and lay the fish in a kettle of cold water, salted in the proportion of three ounces of salt to one gallon of water. Let the water cover the fish, bring it to a boil gradually, and simmer till done. Be care- ful not to break the skin. This unsightly, but very excellent fish, is a near approach to the turbot in the delicacy and firmness of the flesh. It is boiled and served in the same maimer as