PIG ( 208 ) FEN a little nutmeg and mace, and tie down with a bladder and leather to keep out the air. Time throe or four minutes. * Fennel Sauce—MmIco some good melted butter in tho j)ropurtion of an ounce and a half of butter, a dossort-spoonful of flour, and a wine-glassful of water. Blend tho butter and flour together, reserving a little of the butter to stir in after it has thickened and been removed from tho tire. Chop enough of fennel to till a table-spoon, and put it with the butter when it is on the point of boiling. Do not let it boil, but simmer for a minute or two, then remove, and stir in the remaining butter. Servo in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- tient for five or six mackerel. Feuilletage.—Press out all the moisture from eno pound of good fresh butter; break two ounces of it into bits, and blend them with one pound of fine wheaten flour; moisten to a paste with two well-beaten yolks of eggs and a little water, the eggs and water being mixed together before being added to tho flour. Put tho paste on a board, and add the remainder of the butter; fold the paste so that the butter may- be quite enclosed. Dust flour over the board, and roll out thin ; then fold over, and put the paste by for a few minutes in a cool place. Proceed in the same manner, and again let it stand for a little time, when it will be fit for use. {See also Pufi Paste.) Fieldfare.—This is a bird of the thrush tribe, which pays an annual visit to these islands, coming from the northern parts of Europe, where it exists in great numbers. It is small in size, its whole length being but ten inches. It makes its appearance about the beginning of November, affords some sport to youthful sportsmen at Christmas, and leaves us again about February or March. Fieldfare Pasties.—Take half a dozen birds—fieldfares, snipes, woodcocks, quails, and young plovers—draw them, and put the insides into a stewpan with a little butter, first taking out any grit from the gizzards. "When they have steamed enough in the butter (they should not brown) take them out, and put the birds into the butter to brown lightly. Remove them; add a little more butter, and stir in three or four eggs well beaten with a tea-cupful of milk. Have ready a forcemeat of veal, bacon, and calf's liver, in the proportion of one pound and a half of veal to half a pound of bacon, and the same of liver. Season with pepper, salt, and spice. Stir this mince into the stewpan, and when it is sufiiciently dressed, and thick enough, spread a layer over the bottom of a dish, and when a sweetbread is obtainable cut it, when boiled, into pieces the size of a small nut- meg, and mix these with it. The birds and their trails must now be laid on the forcemeat, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and a good squeeze of lemon-juice; the rest should be laid upon them, and a cover of paste over all. Bake in a good oven, and jpour in a little rich gravy with a funnel when done. Time, three- quarters of an hour to one hour to bake. Pro- bable cost: snipes, la. 6d. to 2b. 6d. the brace; woodcocks, 3h. each ; quails. Is. to 2b. ; plovers, Is. (id. to 28. Gd. tho brace. Fieldfares, Roasted.—These birds are tniwHiid and ruasted like a partridge. Wheu put before a briglit fire, baste well with butter or dripping, and froth nicely a few minutes before serving. Send to table hot on fried bread- crumbs, with a tureen of gravy, and another of bread sauce. Tune, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Fieldfares are seldom to be bought. SulKcient for a dish, four. Fife Pie.—Take a nice young rabbit, skin and cut it into pieces about the size of a small egg. Prepare a forcemeat of the li ver, par-boiled and minced, some bread-crumbs, a httle fat bacon, and a seasoning of lemon-thyme, minced parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with an egg, and make into balls. Cut one pound of bacon into thin slices ; free from rind, sprinkle all with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, and pack it, with the balls, closely into a dish. Pour in a tea-cupful of good gravy, and a small glass of white wine. Bake with a cover of puff paste. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 28. 6d., without wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fig Pudding.—Take equal quantities of flour and bread-crumbs, three ounces of •each, shred two ounces of suet very finely, mix together and add two oimces of apples weighed after being pared and chopped, four ounces of figs cut up small, and a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, with sufficient milk to make the paste firm, not wet. Put it into a buttered mould, press closely together, and tie down with a cloth. Serve with wine sauce or melted butter. Time, three hours to steam. Probable cost, 6d. Leave room for the pudding to swell in the mould. Fig Pudding (another way).—This pud- ding is often made like a roly-poly jam pudding {see Roly-poly Jam Pudding), thus:—• llix three-quarters of a poimd of flour and six oimces of finely-chopped suet into a smooth paste with milk. Cut the figs—about one pound—into bits, and put them over the paste, which should be rolled out half an inch thick. When doubled over, see that the paste is firmly closed at the ends, and tie in a floured cloth to boil. Time, nearly two hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Figs, Greeuj, Compote of.—Boil one poimd of sugar with a pint and a half of water and the rind of half a lemon; take off the scum as it appears, and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, put in one pint and a half of green figs, and simmer them verj' slowly till tender, adding a little port wine or lemon-juice. Re- move the figs, and boil the sjTup up quickly, pour it over the figs, and when cold sen'e on a glass dish. Time, two to three hours to stew the figs. Probable cost, 2s. to 38. per dozen. Figs, Preserved.—Take small green figs, wipe, and put them into cold water; do this in the morning, and the next day simmer them till tender. Put them into cold water for three days, changing the water each day. Trj' if they are soft enough for a pin's head to pierce them