( 206 ) EVE PAM Btirring together gently with a knife. After tho niixturo has boilod for about ten minutes, uscoi-tain if it is done in the following way :— Have ready a basin of cold water, and drop a littlo into it from tho point of a knit'o. If it is sulhciontly done, when you take it from tho water it will be quite crisp. Now prepare a large shallow tin pan or dish, rubbed all over , with butter to prevent its adhering, and into I this pour the toflfeo from tho saucepan to get luld, when it can be easily removed. To keep it good, it should be excluded from the air. Eve's Puddings.—Take equal quantities of Hour, fresh buttor, and sugar, six ounces of each ; turn the butter back to cream, and beat the sugar and flour into it. Separate the yolks from tho whites of four eggs, beat them till they are light, and add the yolks first, then the ■whites, to the batter, and lastly, half a dozen pounded almonds, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Beat well, and fill small cups to about half; then set before the fire to rise. In five minutes they will have sufficiently risen, and may be baked for half an hour. Exeter Pudding.—Beat up seven eggs with six ounces of moist sugar and a quarter of a pint of rum. Take ten ounces of bread- crumbs, seven ounces of finely-shred suet, and four ounces of sago ; add them gradually to the egg-mixture, with the rind of a small lemon cut very delicately. Beat all together, and when ready, butter a pudding-mould, cover the bottom of it with ratafias, and then throw in some of the mixture. Next, lay in slices of spongecake well spread with jam, and again the ratafias, filling up alternately with the mix- ture and slices of spongecake, but finishing with the mixture on the top. Bake in a rather quick oven. Make a sauce with a quarter of a pound of black currant jelly, warmed up with a couple of glasses of sherry. Throw it warm over the pudding when turned out of the mould, and serve hot. Time, an hour and a quarter to bake. Probable cost, 28 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. F Fadge.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a gill of milk, and when warm, stir it into equal quantities of rye and brown flour, two ounces of each ; throw in a little salt, and mix into a firm paste. This cake is best baked on a griddle; it should be turned frequently to prevent its being burnt. It will take nearly one hour to bake if made of the proper thickness, three- quarters of an inch. Probable cost, 4d. Fadge (Irish Recipe fok).—Mix one pound of fine wheaten flour to a firm dough with half a pint of milk warmed sufficiently to dissolve three ounces of butter. Put salt to the flour, and stir the milk briskly into the middle of it. Mix to a stiff paste. Roll out on a pasteboard, and cut it into cakes three- quarters of an inch thick. Bake on a griddle equally on both sides for one hour. Probable cost, 74d. Sufficient for six cakes. Fagadu Bradu.—Take of spinach that hiis boon well washed and drained, enough for a dish; stow it over a slow tire until halt done, then prtss out all the moisture, and add to it tho whole of a lobster cut into bits—small ones, and seasoned with cayenne and salt to taste- two table-spoonfuls of curry-powder, and two ounces of butter. Stew till the s]jinaoh is quite tender, which will be in about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3s. Faggots, Baked.—Make a mincemeat of calf H liver, or, if more convenient, pig's liver and fresh fat pork. Chop very finely one pound and a half of liver with half a pound of fresh fat pork. Season the mince with onion, sage, thyme, salt, and pepper. Steam it over boiling water, and throw off all fat. Whan cold, add a large cupful of bread-crumbs, and three well-beaten eggs; mix all together thoroughly, flavour with nutmeg, and make up into round balls which may be baked in a buttered dish with a small quantity of good gravy, or, as is often done, wrapped separately in a piece of pig's caul. Either way they should be of a pale brown, and cooked very slowly. Time: to steam mincemeat, half an hour; to bake, until done a pale brown. Fairy Fancies.—For this pretty, fan- ciful pastry make first a good short crust (see Crust, Short, Common). When very thinly and evenly rolled out, cut with a tin cutter, procured for the purpose, as many sheets of crust for the foundation of the pastry as are required; then, with a round tin cutter of about an inch in diameter, and another of half the size, make eight rings of crust, and carefully place two—one of each size, the largest at the bottom—on the four comers of the foundation previously formed. The rings should be brushed with white of egg to make them adhere. Bake in a slow oven, as the pastry should be of a pale tint. When cold, fill each of the four rounds with differently-coloured jams or jellies. The above may also be iced with sugar, or made of almond paste, and the rings coloured according to fancy, and filled with whipped cream. Family Soup.—Peel and slice two jwunds of potatoes, two carrots, a turnip, and a middle- sized onion. Put the onion into a f rjnng-pan with two poimds of soup beef and half a poimd of lean bacon also sliced; add a small cabbage well chopped, and fry till the meat is slightly browned. Drain from the fat, put the meat and sliced vegetables into a stewpan with two quarts of water, and add, after it has simmered one hour, two quarts more of water. Skim carefully before adding the water, which should be poured in by degrees. When the vegetables are done, rub them to a smooth pulp through a colander, and when the meat has stewed three hours re- move it from the stewpan, and simmer the whole for some time longer. Strain, thicken with the potato, put the meat back cut up into small bits, and serve hot with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for twelve persons. Family Soup (another way).—Put eight or ten pounds of leg of beef, tho most fleshy