LAM ( 3G2 ) LAM sorrol or tomato sauce to table, in a tureon. AspLiragiis or greon peas form on oxcellont accompaiiimout. Time, half an hour. I'robablo coat, uucortain. tiulliciout for thi'oo or four persona. Lamb Sweetbreads, Scolloped.— Soak tlu'(u) Inuib's sweotbruuds, uiid boil them for ton miuutes. Throw them into cold water, drain and dry ihem, and cut them in thin slices. Season and flavour them with a tea- spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of popper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon, and fry them with an ounce of butter till they are brightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour on them, pour over them half a pint of boiling cream, and add a dozen sliced mushrooms. Shako the pan over the fire for a few minutes, then draw it aside, and let it cool a little. Mix a tea-spoonful or two of the sauce with two well-beaten yolks of «ggs, and add them gradually to the rest. Stir over the fire again until quite hot, and serve in the middle of a rice border. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Target.—The rib or target of lamb consists of the neck and breast-joints left undivided. Saw off the chine-bone, and remove the flat bones which adhere to the meaty part of the neck. Partially divide the ribs, and cover the joint with buttered paper. Lay it down before a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. A few minutes before it is ready, remove the paper, ancj brown the meat nicely. Place it on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and mint sauce to table with it. Time to roast, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb with Cucumber.—Stew a breast, loin, or neck of lamb, untO. it is sufficiently tender to draw out the bones. Drain and trim it, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew seasoned bread-crumbs thickly upon it. Have ready some cucumber, prepared as follows:— Procure two or three fresh young cucumbers. Take oS' the rind, remove the seeds, and cut them into pieces, lengthwise. Sprinkle salt and pepper upon them, and fry them in hot butter for five or six minutes. Put them into a stewpan, cover them with some of the liquid in which the lamb was stewed, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Broil the lamb {see Lamb, Broiled); place the gucumber and gravy on a hot dish, and serve the lamb upon them. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost of lamb, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Lamb with Rice.—Three-parts roast a loin, breast, or small fore-quarter of lamb. Cut it into neat pieces, strew a little salt and pepper over these, and lay them in a deep dish, with as much nicely-flavoured stock as will just cover the bottom of the dish. Boil half a pound of rice with a quart of 'V'ater, two ounces of butter, and a blade of mace, until the rice is quite tender, and the water absorbed. Add a little salt, and beat the rice thoroughly; then mix with it the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Spread the rice over the lamb, and Ijrush over it the woU-boaton yolk of another egg. Put tho moat into a moderate oven, until it is hghtly brcjwnod all over. Time to roast tlie lamb, twelve minutes to tho pound. Probable cost, lamb. lOd. or Is. per pomid; rice,4d. per pound! Sufficient, a smjiU quarter of lamb for six or seven persons. Lamb's Feet.—Clean, and wash well, and scald si.\ lamb's feet, liemovo tho sliunkljones very carefully, so as not to break the skin, then let them soak for two or throe hours in cold water. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, with as nmch cold water as wiU barely cover them, and two table-spoonfuls of strained lemon- juice. Let them boil for ten or fifteen minutes, then throw them into cold water, and when they are quite cool cut off the bones from the cleft of the foot, and the Uttlo piece of hair that lies in it. Afterwards, stew them for three hours in some wliite stock, and with them an onion, a bunch of parsley, and thyme, three or four mushrooms, half a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a slice of lean ham. Strain the sauce, thicken it with flour and butter, and add half a pint of new milk. Let the feet boil up once more in it, and add, the last thing, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Serve on a hot dish, and send peas or asparagus to table. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb's Feet (another way).—Prepare and stew the feet as in the last recipe. When quite tender, remove the bones, roll the feet, dip them in egg and bread-cnmibs, and fry them. Or, if preferred, spread a mixture pre- pared as follows over a dish, let it get quite hot in the oven, then place the rolled feet upon it, and serve them dry. In either case, sauce (Robert or supreme sauce) should be sent to table in a tureen. For the mixture:—Take four table-spoonftds of finely-grated bread- crumbs, season them with pepper and salt, rub into them a piece of butter the size of a large egg, and mix with them, first, a table-spoonful of grated cheese, and afterwards the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Time, three hours to stew the feet, ten minutes to fry them. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb's Fry.—Take a pound or a poimd and a half of lamb's fry. Wash it thoroughly in cold water, then set it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water; and let it boil for three or four minutes. Take it out, di-ain and dry it in a cloth. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a little cold water, and add to it a small pinch of salt and pepper, six tea-spoon- fuls of water, and a well-beaten egg. Dip each piece of the fry into this mixture, Ihen fry it in three ounces of hot dripping until it is brightly browned on both sides, without being at all burnt. :Mix a table-spoonful of flour, very smoothlv, with the fat in the fiying-pan. unlil it is hghtly bro\\Tied. Add sufficient boiling water to bring it to the thickness of cream, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little brownijur, if necessary. A few mushrooms, or a little chopped onion, may be added, if liked. If pref('iTod, the frv limv be cooked without the batter, or beaten "egg and bread-crumbs may be