MAC MAC ( -.m ) Mackerel, Broiled.—LarRo frosh ii»h «hoiilil b(( prociirt'd fur l)nnlinf,'. ('Itianm* tlu^ fisli tlioiou},'hly, and dry in a cloth, or Imiif,' it nil ill tho air. Open it down tho back, rub the insido with a little Halt and eayouno niixiid, and smoar with olaritiod bnttor or f^ood oil. I'ut it into a thickly-buttori'd paper, loosoly I'aHtonod at each end, and broil over a clear iire, or it may bo broiled without tho paper, though the fornier mode renders tho iish bo cooked more delicate, and not so apt to disaf,Teo witli tho stomach as when exposed to the lire un- covered. Time, twenty to twonty-fivo minutes in paper; twenty to "lifteen minutes to broil without paper. Probable cost, -id. to 6d. each. Mackerel Broiled, and Tarragon Butter, — Kemovo the inside of the Unh through the gills and vent without opening it. Wash, clean, di-y, and make a deep incision down tho back; lay the iish in a little salad-oil; keep it well basted for about thi-ee-quarters of an hour, but cut off the nose or part of the head and tail before it is steeped in the oil. Broil over a clear fire, and when done, have ready the following mixtm-e, with which fill up the incision:—Work a little butter, pepper, salt, and tarragon-leaves chopped and steeped in vinegar together. When ready, serve the mackerel with some of the butter spread over it on a hot dish. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to hroil. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Mackerel, Caveacll.—Divide large fresh fish, after being well cleansed and dried in a cloth, into five pieces, and rub each piece with^ spice as follows:—Pound an oimce of black pepper and six blades of mace, mix them when pounded with two ounces of salt, and half an ounce of grated nutmeg. Use all the above spices for six fish, rubbing well in, that everj-- piece may be thoroughly seasoned with spice, then fiy in oil. Drain, and put the fish neatly into a jar, which fiU with good vinegar, adding clarified butter or oil to exclude the air. Tie down closely. Mackerel so prepared will keep for six months. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Mackerel, Fillets of.—Put a tea-cupful of stock and bechamel sauce mixed into a stew- pan. Add a lump of butter, about an ounce, some chopped' parsley previously scalded, salt, and cayenne. Cut two fine fresh mackerel into fillets, having first well cleansed them. Put the fillets into the sauce, and simmer over a slow fire until done, when place them on a hot di.sh before the fire. Thicken with a little flour, boil it up, and throw it over the fillets, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, if liked. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 7d. Mackerel, Fillets of, Stewed (another way).—Dis.solvo two ounces of butter in a stew- pan, with nearly a dessert-spoonful of flour, and mix them together until smooth. Add half the rind of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of soy, a salt-.spoonful of pounded mace, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a little stock or water. Into this sauce place fillets from two fresh mackerel. Shake the pan over the fire to get tho fish equally covered with the Kaiu-.o, turninff them in aliout eight or ten miimtes. When they are done enough, remove tho fillets to a hot disli. boil up the sauce with a small wine-glassful of port, and pour it hot over the fish. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Gd., exclusive of wine. Suflicient for three persons. Mackerel, Pried, French. — Bone three fine mackerel, removing the heads and tails, dry them well in a cloth, or rub a httle flour into them, so as to remove all moisture, sprinkle with pepper and siilt, and frj- lightly in hot dripping to cover them. They should be of a fine golden colour, and well drained. Place tliem on a dish, and either pour the following sauce over them, or serve in a tureen:—fStt;w the bones of the fish in half a pint of stock, add a thickening of butter and browned flour, say, one ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour, well worked up together, the juice of a lemon, and a httle browning to colour it. Or, if pre- feiTcd, serve the fish with mustard-sauce, in which a table-spoonful of some good store sauce, such as Heading, Worcester, or Harvey, has been stiiTcd. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Suflicient for five or six persons. Mackerel, Pickled.—Boil slk mackerel in salt and water; when done, take them up, and lay them in a deep earthenware dish. Add three-quarters of a pint of ■s'inegar, a quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper, and three bay-leaves to the Hquor the fish was cooked in. Let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and when quite cold, pour it over the mackerel, cover down tightly, and in twenty-fom- hours the fish -will be ready for use. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Mackerel Pie.—Clean three middling-sized mackerel, take out the melts and roes, which use in the composition of a forcemeat to stuff the fish. Add bread-crimibs, chopped parsley, a small bit of onion, if liked, mace, pepper, salt, a little butter, and an egg or two to cement the whole. Sew up the fish neatly, and lay them into an ordinal^' oval flat dish, -with an edging of good mashed potatoes or a puff crust. Balls of forcemeat wiU enrich the dish, and some rich sauce may be poured over the fish when baked; but both forcemeat and sauce should be delicately prepared. Cover with bread-crumbs, and put butter, in bits, over the fish. Time, half an hour, or more. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Mackerel, Potted.—l^Iake a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, in the pro- portion of a quarter of an ounce of white pepper to half the quantity of pounded mace, and an ounce of salt. Put a layer of well-cleaned split mackerel, divested of heads, tails, and fins, into a potting-dish, and sprinkle" over it part of the above seasoning. Lay the skin side downwards, and on the top of the seasoning ])lace about an ounce of butter, in bits; fill up with the fish to within an inch or two of the top, and ])our danfied butter to finish. Bake in a modcRite oven for one hour. I'robable cost, 4d. to 6d. each.