LEE ( 3G8 ) LEM Leeks, Flammish (another way).— Wash, blanch, and cut into piocoa of half an inch, a dozen niiddlo-sizod looks. Put half a pint of cream into a bowl, and stir in the looks, with a seasoning of nutmeg, popper, and 8alt._ Have ready one pound of sliort paste, which divide into four equal parts. Roll out each part in a circular form, and about the size of a pudding-plate; cover the centre with the look mi.xturo. Gather up the sides of the paste, so that each shall appear like a puckered purse; and fasten with a small round piece of paste wetted, and gently fixed on the centre. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 23. Leek, Gingerbread {sec Gingerbread Leek). Leeks, Porridge of, Welsh {see Welsh Leek Porridge). Leeks, Soup of.—Trim ofiE the root and outer leaves from eight fine leeks. Wash them quite free from gi-it, divide them lengthwise into quarters, and cut them into pieces an inch long. Put these into boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and fry them in a little hot butter till they are lightly browned. Pour over them two quarts of good stock, season with two tea-spoonfuls of salt and half a tea-spoon- ful of pepper, and simmer gently for an hour. Place a roU cut into small pieces at the bottom of the tureen. Thicken the soup with three ounces of flour, first mixed smoothly with a little stock, and afterwards added to the rest. Boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve as hot aa possible. If preferred, half a pint of cream can be substituted for the sliced roll. Probable cost, 5d. per quart. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Leeks, Soup of (commonly called Cock-a- Leekie).—Wash a dozen leeks; trim away the roots, the outer leaves, and the dark green ends, and divide them into pieces an inch long and a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into boiling water for four or five minutes, then drain them, and lay half of them into a stewpan with two quarts of good stock and a large fowl, trussed as for boiling. Skim carefully, and sim- mer gently for half an hour. At the end of that time put in the remainder of the leeks, and boil for three-quarters of an hour longer. Skim carefully, and season, if required, with pepper and salt. Cut the fowl into neat pieces, place these in a tureen, and pour the soup, which should be very thick with leeks, over them. This soup is excellent for any one suffering from cold. Probable cost, 2s. per quart. Suffi- cint for six or eight persons. Leicester Pie.—Take three pounds of pork, fat and lean together. Cut it into pieces two inches long and an inch and a half wide, season these with pepper and salt and powdered sage, and put them aside. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of flonr. Stir into it with a knife four ounces of lard, dis- solved in half a pint of hot water, roll it out, line a greased tin mould with part of it, put in the pieces of pork, place the lid on the top, and fasten the edges securely. Bake in a mode- rate oven. The greatest expedition should be used, as this pie should be i)ut into the oven while it is still warm. Time to Iwko, an hour and three-quarters. I'robablo cost, 2a. lOd. Sufficient for six or seven peiuons. Leicester Pudding.—Mix a heaped tea- spociiiful of carbonate of soda and a small pinch of salt with a pound of flour. Add the finely- minced rind of half a lemon, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, four ounces of finely-slired beef suet, a table-spoonful of sugar, and half a pound of stoned raisins. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, stir into them a j)int of milk, put the mixture into a buttered mould, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Send wine or brandy sauce to table witli it. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for foirr or five persons. Leibestershire Medley Pie.—Take a pound each of cold fat bacon, cold roast beef or pork, and cored apples. Line the edges of a pie-dish with a good crust made of dripping or lard. Fill it with the meat and apples in alternate layers, and season each layer with a httle pepper, salt, and powdered ginger. Pour half a pint of ale over all, place the lid on the top, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Leipzig Pancakes.—ilix half a pound of flour and half a tea-spoonful of salt very smoothly with the well-beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs; jiidd gradually four ounces of pounded sugar, four ounces of clarified butter, a table-spoonful of fresh yeast dissolved in three-quarters of a pint of luke- warm milk, and a table-spoonful of spirits of wine. Mix all thoroughly. Cover the batter, and put it in a warm place to rise. Roll it out thin, and fry it in small rounds. Serve the rounds in pairs, with a little jam between each pair. Time, half an hour to rise; a few minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Leman's Biscuits.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of fine dry flour, add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a piece of volatile salt the size of a bean. Work the whole into a stiff paste with a little lukewarm milk, and leave it for two or three hours. At the end of that time roll it out, divide it into small biscuits of different shapes, prick them -vsdth a fork, and bake upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Be careful not to let them colour in baking. Time to bake, from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a dozen and a half cakes. Lemon.—The acid juice of the common lemon is much employed in the manufacture of the favourite beverage lemonade. It is also an important article of ship stores, as a preventive of scurvy. Lemon-peel—the rind of the fruit separated from the pulp—is in demand for flavouring. The exportation of lemons from the southern districts of Europe, where they are grown, is very considerable. Sicily alone exports every year 30,000 chests, each chest containing 440 lemons.