( «io ) PAR PAB Pour in three taWo-Hpoonfuls of the gravj-^ in ■which the i)m tridgo8 woio sinmiorod. Lino the odgos oi tho dish with good pustiy, and cover with tho sumo. Make a hole in tho contro and bake in a quick oven. JJofore sending tho pie to table, pour in a quarter of a pint of good gravy, which haa been slightly llavoui-od with lemon-juice. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for tha-oo or four persona. Partridges, Pie of, Hunter's.—Pluck, draw, and aingo throo young partridges. Divide them into halves, sprinkle over them a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, and fry them in a little hot butter until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Line the edges of a shallow pie-dish with a good cruat. Lay two or throo thin alices of the fillet of veal and bacon at the bottom, and sprinkle over them two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mush- rooms, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. If mushrooms cannot be had, a table-spoonful of mushi'oom ketchup must supply their place. Pour a quarter of a pint of onion sauce over the veal, then pack the birds closely into the dish, breast upper- most, and add some more mushrooms, parsley seasoning, and onion sauce. Cover the pie with a good crust, ornament it prettily, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Pour a quarter of a pint of melted savoury jelly into the pie before sending it to table. Time, an hour and a half to bake the pie. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges, Potted.—Prepare and truss the partridges aa if for roasting, and season them inside and out with pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg. Put a piece of fresh butter, the size of a large egg, inside the birds, and pack them, breast downwards, closely together in a pie- dish. Place three or four pieces of butter upon them, cover the dish with a coarse paste, made of flour and water, and bake them in a moderate oven. Do not remove the covering imtil the dish is quite cold; then take out the birds, free them entirely from gravj', cut them into con- venient-sized pieces, and pack them as closely as possible in a potting-jar, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. Time, one hour to bake the partridges. Probable cost, Ss. per brace. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Partridges, Potted (another way).— Pick the meat from the remains of cold roast partridges, which have been well dressed. Re- move all the skin and gristle, mince the meat finely, and pound it in a mortar. Add, every now and then, a small quantity of fresh butter, and season with salt, cayenne, and grated nut- meg. When the meat is quite smooth, press it into small jars, cover with dissolved butter, and store in a cool place. About two ounces and a half of butter will be required for each half pound of meat. Time, forty minutes to roast the partridges. Probable cost, 3s. per brace. Partridges, Pudding of.—The flavour of partridges is never hotter preserved than when they are cooked in a pudding. Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of well-kept partridges, cut them into neat joints, and if they are not very young, take off tho akin before doing so. Lina a quart pudding-haain with a good suet crust half an inch in thickness, and in tiimming it off leave an inch above the edge. Lay a thin slice of rump steak at tho bottom of tho pudding, then put in tho pieces of partridge, season with pepper and salt, and i>our over them a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy. lioll out tho cover, ky it on the pudding, moisten the edge, and press over it the inch that was left round the nm. Wring a pudding-cloth out of hot water, flour it woU, and tie it seciu-ely over the pudding. Plunge it into boiling water, and keep it fast boiling all tho time it is on the fire; as soon aa it ia taken off, cut a small round of pastry out of tho top, to let the steam escape. If the appear- ance ia not objected to, partridge pudding, like all other meat puddinga, ia much bettor when served in the diah in which it waa cooked. If it ia to be turned out, however, the basin must be thickly buttered before the pastry is put in. A few mushrooms will be a great improve- ment to this pudding, though it will be very good without. Time, three hours to boU. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges, Red-Legged.—These birds should be cooked according to the directions BED-LEGGED PABTBIDGE. given for the ordinary partridges. If they be himg a proper length of time they are very good, otherwise they are hard and tasteless. Probable cost uncertain, red-legged partridges being seldom offered for sale. Partridges, Roast.—Let the partridges hang as long as possible, or the flesh will be hard and flavourless. In cool weather they should be kept fully a fortnight before they are put down to the fire. They may be trussed either with or without the head, though the latter mode is at present more generally preferred. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, and wipe them caref uUy, inside and out; cut off the heads, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer them securely. Draw tho legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If-the heads arc left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the vnng, with the bill laid on the breast. To give tho birds a plump appearance, pass the needle through the back, below the thighs, then again througli the body and legs, and tie the strings firmly. Put the