( 282 ) PBU VRJJ look rocky, bo put it ou as roughly as pos- sible. Time, boat until the whole is a stiit' froth. Fruit Biscuits.—Make a paste as follows: mix thoroughly the yolks of two »!ggs, and four ounces of sugar. When smooth add four ounces of flour, ono egg, and a littlo wilt, and last of all, the two whites of eggs, wluHkod till firm. Spread the paste on a lined baking tin ; it should bo rather loss than an inch thiclc. Bako in a moderate oven, and when cool cut into fingers. Rub a cupful of strawberries or rasp- berries through a fine sieve, and mix witli the pulp castor sugar to make a stiff paste. Spread this upon the biscuits, and dry in a cool oven. Fruitj Compote of. Mixed.—Boil ten ounces ot sugar and halt a pint of water ten minutes; take the stallcs from a quart of red cui-rants and lot them simmer with the same quantity of raspberries from eight to ten minutes in the syrup. Get ripe, but sound raspberries, and see that they ai-e free from moisture before they are put into the syrup. Fruit Cream for Tarts.—A very nice cream for fruit tarts is made by boiling peach or laurel-leaves (to extract their flavour) in milk. Two or three leaves in a quart of milk will be sufficient. Boil until flavoured; add, when strained and sweetened, f om- well-whisked eggs; heat it, stirring steadily until thick, but it must not boil. This cream is eaten also with stewed fruit of any kind. Fruit, Dish of Mixed.—In the months of September and October the most fastidious fancy may be gratified through the facility DISH OF MIXED FRUIT. afforded of collecting a variety of mixed fruits for a centre dish. The beauty even of fine fruit is enhanced when it is tastefuUy dished, and its form and colour are shown to advantage. One ornament for the centre of a dinner-table is a large gilt basket of some graceful shape, filled with every kind of fruit, interspersed with moss and fern-leaves. Apples, pears, peaches, pine-apples, and grapes would form a lovely combination for autumn fruits, the crevices filled up with scarlet geraniums and maiden- hair foni; this for a centre-piece, surrounded by specimen glasses, with a rose or camelia in each, would form a most attractive coup d'asil. There are so many ways, however, of dis])laying taste in dressing the centre of a table and of aiTanging fruit dossoils, that it is best left to (;ach individual fancy. Suffiwi it to say, that the dish should never be too full, and always garnished in some way, either with leaves or tiny sprays of flowers, or even em- broidered paper, which can bo bought for the purpose, and that all fruit intended for table should be carefully wiped with a cloth before arranging on the dish. Fruit Fritters.—Fruit fritters are made by frying fruit which has been dipped in batter, in hot fat, and draining well before serving. The following recipe will serve for many kindji of fruits, and also for vegetables :—Warm half a pint of milk, in which stir two ounces of but- ter ; make it into a batter, with about ten ounces of flour. Sweeten to taste, and .flavour with nutmeg, ciniiamon,&c., and a glass of any liquor or brandy. Stir in the whites of two eggs well whisked, and fry at once, in hot dripping or lard. Fruits such''as]pine-apple, apple, orange, peach, &c., should be cut in slices, dipped in the batter, fried nicely, and when dried before the fire, strewed with sifted sugar. Such fruits as strawberries, cherries, apricots, and raspberries, should be thrown into the batter, and a spoon- ful poured into the boiling fat; all stones must be previously removed. For frying vegetables mix into the batter, in the place of sugar, &c., savoury herbs and salt. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Batter for Frying Meat, Fish Fruit, &c.) Fruit Fritters (another and richer way).— Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately, add half a pint of cream, a little salt, and enough flour to form a thick batter; beat until smooth, and put in fruit as above; fry in boiling fat, and dry before the fire on a sieve. Serve on a napkin, with white sugar sifted over the fritters. Time, about three minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fruit (G4teau de Pommes).—Put some ripe red currants into a jar and set it in boihng water, or in the oven, to draw out the jmce. Put one pound of the juice into a preser^^xlg-pan, with one pound and a half of fine ripe codhngs, which should bo peeled, and have the cores carefully and whoUy extracted. When they have boiled slowly about half an hour, and can be easily pulped, and the mixture is qmte smooth, add the same weight of powdered su^r as of apples^ Stir until the sugar has dissolved, then boU fast the remainder of the time, taking care to keep the contents from burning at the botlom of the pan. If put into a mould the fruit wiU keep many months! It may be ser^-ed turned out^rna- mented ^Wth cut blanched almonds, and w^th a whipped cream round it. Garnish with hyM- coloured apple jelly for dessert.