FOW ( 226 ) POW Fowl, Salmi of.—Cut the birds (wild fowl or poultry) into neat pieces. Skin and re- move the fat from thom. Boil these with the trinmiinga and bones crushed for gravy. Slice a shallot, and add a little mace if likecl, but the salmi may bo simply seasoned with cayenne, a glass of port or claret, and some lemon-juice. Thicken with browned floui-. Lay the pieces of wild fowl into a clean stewimn, pour the gravy over, and heat all thoroughly, but it should not boil. The spongy, dark substance on the inside of wild fowl is exceedingly bitter, and should not be boiled for gravy. Fowl, Sauce for.—Boil two eggs for ten minutes and pound the yolks with a shallot, an anchovy, and a tea-spoonfiil of mustard; moisten with two dessert-spoonfuls of vinegar. Rub the mixture to a smooth paste, and add by degrees more oil and vinegar, about a table- spoonful of each. Strain, and send to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d. Fowl. Sausages of.—^As an accompani- ment to fricassees, or any made dish of fowl, make sausages of veal or poultry. Take equal quantities of the lean white part of the meat and fine bread-crumbs. Scrape half a pound of lean ham, and season with parsley, lemon-thyme, pounded mace, salt, and pepper. Mix all together with the yolk of an egg and a little milk, and roll into sausages. Fry in butter a -.ight brown. Or, chop the remains of a turkey or fowl, and mix with fat bacon in equal quan- tities. Pound the mixture in a mortar with an anchovy, a little sage, salt, and pepper. Fry these sausages as a nice supper dish, and gar- nish with fried sippets. A sweetbread with sausages piled round it is excellent. Fowl Scallops.—Mince the meat of a cold fowl very fine, season with salt and pepper, a dash of nutmeg and cayenne, and a shred of lemon-peel. Put this over the fire in a little thin cream or white broth. When thoroughly warmed through (not boiled), pour into clean buttered scallop-shells. Strew with bread- crumbs until covered, and on the top put bits of butter. Brown the bread-crumbs twenty minutes in the oven. Fowi, Scallops, (a la Bechamel).—Roast a couple of tine fowls, and when done, re- move them from the spit. Cut with a sharp knife all the flesh in one piece from the breasts and wings. Pull off the skin, and slice the meat thinly into small scallops, which arrange on a liot dish. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and pour boiling sauce (bechamel) over. If cold fowls be used, dip the scallops one by one into clarified butter and fry, but do not brown. Drain off the butter, and pile in the middle of a hot dish. Sauce as above. Time, four minutes to fry. Probable cost, exclusive of fowls, 8d. Sufficient for an entree. Fowl, To Boil.—Pick, singe, and truss the fowl; press the legs into the sides, and make the breast a good shape. Cover with buttered paper, plunge into hot water lightly siilted, and hoil gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Serve with ham, tongue, or bacon. For sauce, either pai-sley, lemon, or oyster sauce is suitable. A little should be poured over the fowl, and the remainder should bo served in a tureen. Fowl, To Bone, without opening it. —I After the fowl has been drawn and singed wipe it inaido and out with a clean cloth] but do not wash it. Take off the head, cut through the skin all round the first joint of the legs, and pull them from the fowl, to draw out the large tendons. Raifie the flesh first from the lower part of the backbone, and a little also from the end of the breastbone, if necessary; work the knife gradually to the socket of the thigh; with the point of the knife detach the joint from it. Take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round which pass the point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is loosened from it in every part, cut round the next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, imtil the whole of the leg is done. Remove the bones of the other leg in the same manner ; then detach the flesh from the back and breastbone sufficiently to enable you to reach the upper joints of the ^vings; proceed with these as with the legs, but be especially careful not to pierce the skin of the second joint. It is usual to leave the piniorm unbound, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The merry-thought and neckbones may now easily be cut away, the back and sidebones taken out without being divided, and the breast- bone separated easily from the flesh, which, as the work progresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the fowl, until it is completely inside out. After the one remaining bone is removed, draw the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the fowl right side out- wards. Bone a turkey in the same manner, but as it requires a large amount of forcemeat to fill it entirely, the legs and wings are some- times drawn into the body, to diminish the expense of this. If very securely trussed and sewn, the bird may be either boiled or stewed in rich gra\'y, as well as roasted, after being boned and forced; but it must be gently cooled, or it may burst. Or : Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the fiesh carefuUy on either side with the point of a sharp knife, until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will perhaps be better to bone these joints before proceeding further; but after they are once detached from it, the whole of the body may easily be taken out entire ; only the neckbones and merry-thought will then remain to be removed. The bird thus prepared may either be restored to its original form, by filling the legs and A\'ings with forcemeat, and the body, with the legs of two or three fowl.s, mixed with alternate layers of parboiled tongue freed from the rind, fine sausage-meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or anything else of good flavour, which will give a marbled appearance* to the fowl when it is ran-ed, and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the legs and Vinngs mnv bo drawni inside the body, and the bird being first flattened on a table may bo cwvered with sausage-moat and the various other ingre-