Ixxix PRINCIPLES WINE. pa^e ill France is almost universally dmnk after dinner in the same way m which Soukl li.uBh up with a bottle of claret. But then it shou d be remembered tha I majority of tie champagne in France is very sweet; the f-l'^XZh adantini nirly the whole of the wine that is sent to England to suit the English Ce ^Kl it will generally be found that champagne in England ho^ tlie word taste, — „ Enc^land " branded on the side of the cork, How far the French are right and we wrong, or vice versd, in thus preferring sweet champagne to dry is a matter of taste. However, there can be no dpubt that the taste for dry wines can be carried too far, and that there should be some limit beyond which the dryness of a wine should not be caiTied. For instance, take the case of the Duke of Montebello's first brand: there is the sec and the maximum sec Now, in our opinion, the latter is inferior to the former. Again, there : is some champagne in which the dryness of the wine has been carried to such a pitch as to cause it to resemble soda-water rather than wine. In fact, there has been of late vears a rage for dry wines of every description, especially port. This rage for dry "wine, like most other fashions, was carried to an extreme, and was consequently followed by a reaction. The rage for dry port has already ceased, and probably before long there will be a slight reaction in the present rage for dry champagne. We have, of course, omitted all mention of home-made wines, though recipes for making them will be found under theii' various headings in the present work. Wine, properly speaking, is the fermented juice of the gi'ape, and as this country possesses a climate too cold to allow of the cultivation of the gi-ape in any quantity, it is evident that we must look elsewhere for our supply of piu^e and genuiae wine. At present our supply is almost entirely confined to France, Germany, Spain, and Portugal, and we must necessarily at present make the various vintages from these countries our models, as, indeed, is but just, as much of the excellence of these wines is due to the care taken in the cultivation of the vines. Nothing but the experience of a number of years of trial could have brought this cultivation to its present pitch of perfection. There are, however, other countries in the world that produce the grape in great abundance, and it is to some of these countries that make wine—not so well known as our familiar port, sherry, madeii'a, claret, burgundy, and hock—that we shall have to call attention by-and-by. We shall, in particular, after running through the various well-known wines and vintages, call attention to the much-neglected wines of Australia, made from vines that are grown on our own dominions, and which, there can be no doubt, are destined to enter before long into this country in tenfold greater quantities than they do at present when their excellence is better known and better appreciated. Let those who doubt this ask their "wine mei'chant to procure them a single sample bottle of Australian dry muscat of Alexandria. Let any connoisseur of wine ask himself the simple question, Can any country that is capable of producing such magnificent wine as this fail to make a' show in the wine-producing coimtries of the world 1 But before entering into the details of the various wines, I will quote what Mr. Francatelli's opinions on the subject were, and, as I have always entertained such a profound respect for his opinions on the subject of cookery, I trust that I may be pardoned for giving the quotation at some length :— " The judicious service of wines at the dinner-table is essential to the complete success of a weU-ordered and recherche dinner; for on the manner and order in which