( 216 ) FON FLO Flounders, Fricasseed. — Put the liquor of a dozen oystois into a stowpiin with a ghissof whito wino, and a f>-ill of whito Htock. Sininior for ton minutes, add a gill of croam, and tliickon with flour and butter, then add the oysters. Have veady fillets of flounders or phiice that have been fncd crisp and brown in butter or dripping. Lay them in the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Time, ton minutes to fry. rrobabio cost, 6d. to Is. Sufficient, one for each person. Flounders, Fried.—Lay them in sjilt and water tor an hour or more to get rid of the muddy flavour, or rub them well on all sides with salt, which will make the fish firm. Dry thorn, dip into egg, and cover witli bread-crumbs. Fry in oil or boiling fat, .and serve on a hot napkin. Garnish with crisped parsley. Time, five to ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. Flounders, Fried (another way).—Rub the fish well with salt, and let them stay two houi-s. Then shake off the salt and lay the fish in a aoit cloth for an hour. Flour all over and fry in boiling fat. Send to table on a napkin, garnished with crisped parsley. Time, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d.to 6d. Sufiicient, one for each person. Flounders, Stewed.—Wash and trim the fish; put it into a stewpan with about a pint of some good gravy, a glass of claret or port, a small tea-spoonful of allspice and black pepper mixed, three cloves, or a little mace. Stew the fish in this mixture till done; then remove it, and thicken the gravy, adding a little Chili vinegar, essence of anchovy, pepper, and salt. Strain, and send it to table pomred over the fish. Time to stew fish, ten to twenty minutes; to boil gravy, eight to ten minutes. Flour, Browned. — This flour wiU be found an excellent substitute for roux, which the French employ in the composition of their dishes. The flour is simply browned by placing it on a baking-tin in the oven or before the fire, and turning it frequently to prevent its being burnt. Blended with butter, it colours and thickens soup. If kept in an ordinary dredg- ing-box it wiU be found convenient for gravies or any made dishes. Flour Paste.—A common paste may be made by simply boiling flour and water, but one that wiU keep good, and be useful for various purposes, should be made as follows :— Dissolve an ounce of alum in a pint and a half of warm water ; add flour to make it as thick as cream, and a tea-spoonful of powdered resin. Boil till stiff, stirring well. This wall keep twelve months. Flour Pudding.—Make with the follow- ing ingredients :—One quart of new milk, eight yolks and four whites of eggs. Beat the eggs with part of the milk, into which stir four large spoonfuls of flour; add the rest of the milk, and flavour with nutmeg, essence of ratafia, and sugar to taste. Mix well, and boil -n,e hour in a buttered basin. Probable C08t, : "d. Sufficient for two puddings. I ■ - Flour Pudding, Hasty.— Make a HUKjolli Imtterwith two ounces of fine flour and a i)int of milk. Boil it in a clean saucepan over a slow fire until quite thick: add sugar to sweeten, half an ounce of butter, a few drops of the essence of i-atafia, and a little grated nut- meg. Lot it stay till cold; then lioat into the batter three eggs, and bake in a dish lined or not with thin paste. A layer of marmalade, or any other preserve, on the paste at the bottom of the dish is much approved of ; or the pudding may be oaten simply boiled as above, and served hot with cold butter, sugar, and nutmeg. Time to bake, hfilf an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Suflicient for two or three persons. Flummery.—Melt two ounces of gela- tine in a pint and a half of water; add a wine-glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy, with the juice of three lemons, and sugar enough to sweeten. Stir into the liquid when cold a pint of double cream which has been whisked until it began to thicken. If mixed while warm the lemon- juice wiU curdle it. Moulds should be dipped in water or oiled, and the flummery should be allowed to set a day before turning out. Blanched almonds, slit lengthwise, stuck round the flummery, or preserved cherries, look well. Probable cost, 3s. for this quantity. Sufficient for two moulds. Flummery, French. — Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a little milk; then add a quart of cream, flavoured with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and sugar to sweeten. Stir the flummery till cool, and strain into a mould. To be served turned out on a dish, with baked pears placed round it. Gelatine may be used instead of isinglass. Time, quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, Ss. Folkestone Pudding Pies.—Put two laui'el-leaves and the peel of a small lemon in half a pint of milk in a stewpan, over a slow fii'e, to extract the flavour of the laurel and lemon. Mix three ounces of groimd rice in another half-pint of mUk, which add to the flavoured milk, the latter being first strained. Boil, stirring all the time, for a quarter of an hour. Remove the mixture from the fire, and have ready six well-beaten eggs, three oimces of butter, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; beat all together first, and stir into the rice mixture tiU thoroughly blended. Fill patty- pans lined with puff paste, and strew currants lightly over each. Bake in a moderate oven. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Fondu.—Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk and dissolve an ounce of butter in it. Stir into it a quarter of a pint of cold milk in which two ounces of arrowroot have been rubbed smooth. Boil till thick, then add the yolks of four eggs, half a table-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, and four ounces of grated Parmesan. Pour in the whites of si.x eggs whisked to a light froth, and bake at once, without opening the oven till done. The dish should "be lined with a buttered paper rising three inches above the top, as the fondu will rise very much. It must be sent to table immediately, for it falls as quickly as it rises. (See also Cheese Fondu.)