APP APP ( 17 ) it boils away, until tho fruit is tender. Then poxiT it into a preserving-pan, and boil for twenty minutes. Time to stow, three or four hours. Probable cost, Is. lOd. One pound of apples will make about one pound of jam. Apple Jam (another way).—Pare, core, and slice tlu-ee pounds of apples. Place them in a presor\'ing-pau with a lictle cinnamon, two or thi-ee cloves, the juice of two lemons, two and a half pounds of sugar, and just enough water to keep them from burning. Stir them continually with a wooden spoon, until they are reduced to pulp. Pour this into jars, and cover closely. It will not keep so well as jam made by the preceding recipe, but it is more quickly made. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost,ls.8d. Allow one pound of fruit for a one-pound jar. Apple Jelly.—Simmer seven pounds of apples and seven pints of water until the apples are soft. Strain them, but do not squeeze them, two or three times imtil quite clear, and then mix in the juice of two lemons and a pound of loaf sugar to every pint of liquid. Boil until it becomes stiff. If rosy-cheeked apples are used, the jelly wdll be bright red. Tlie apples should not be pared, but well rubbed with a cloth. Time, from twenty minutes to half an hour to boil after straining. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Jelly (another way).—Pare, core, and shce three pounds of apples. Put them into a stewpan with a tea-cupful of water. When reduced to a pulp, put them into a jelly-bag and let them dxain all night; they must not be •squeezed. Next morning put the juice into a saucepan, being careful not to put any sediment with it, adding a pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and a few drops of the essence of Vanillai Boil it until it wiU stiffen when cold; cover tho jars as soon as possible. The pulp may be made into jam. Time to boil with the sugar, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Apple Juiee for Jelly.—Peel, core, and ■weigh four pounds of finely-flavoured cooking apples: put them into a stewpan with three pints of water, and let them simmer gently until they are broken. Strain the juice from them, and boil it again, with half a pound of sugar to each pint of juice. This juice is very nice to use in preserving other fruits. Time to boil with the sugar, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four pints. Apple Mange.—Reduce to a pulp a dozen :fine apples, and sweeten and flavour according to taste. "When quite cold, pour it into a glass dish, and cover it with whipped cream, which will be much firmer if made the day before it is wanted. Time to simmer the apples, forty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d., with a pint of cream. Apple Marmalade.—Pare, core, and slice four pounds of apples, and place them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them barely. Boil them until quite pulpy, then pass them through a sieve. Put a poimd of sugar and a little cinnamon to a pint of pulp, and boil once more, stirring constantly, for half an hour or more. Place the marmalade in jars, and cover them as soon as possible. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six one- pound jars. Apple Mincemeat.—Stew a pound of beef imtil very tender, mince it as small as l^ossible: add two pounds of apples, one pound of finely-shred suet, two poimds of currants, haK a pound of stoned raisins, and three-quai-ters of a pound of sugar. The apples, raisins, and suet shoidd all be minced separately. Mix these in- gredients weU together, with one nutmeg grated, a little mace, the gravy in which the meat was stewed, a whole lemon chopped, one glass of brandy, and two glasses of port wine. Keep it in covered jars. Time to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost, 3a. 6d., without the brandy and wine. Sufficient to make six pounds of mincemeat. Apple Mould.—Pare, core, and slice two pounds of golden pippins. Put them into a saucepan with a pint of water, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Let all boil gently together until the apples are quite soft. Then beat them well, until quite smooth, with a few drops of Vanilla flavouring. Oil a mould, lay the apple smoothly into it, and let it stand in a cold place. Serve with whipped cream. Time to simmer, half an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd., exclusive of the cream, Apple Pancakes.—Make a good stiff batter with four table-spoonfuls of flour, a little sugar, three eggs, half a pint of milk, a little powdered cinnamon, and a pinch of salt. Chop six moderate-sized apples verj- small, mix them with the batter, and fry the pancakes in the usual way. They will require great care in turning. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Serve one for each person. Apple Pancakes (another way).-?-Make the batter the same as in the preceding recipe. Fry the pancakes, and, when they are browned on both sides, spread a little apple marmalade thinly over the top; fold them in three, and cover with sifted sugar. Serve on a hot dish. Time to fry, ten minutes- Probable cost. Is. Apple Pasty (or Turnover).—Make a short crust with half a pound of flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of lard, and a little salt. Eub the butter thoroughly into the flour, mix it with very little water, and roll it out thin on the pastry-board. Stamp out with a small cup- plate as many rounds as you wish to make pasties. Moisten the inside of the round; lay stewed apples, sweetened and flavoured, on one half, and lift the other half right over it. Press the edges, and bake in a quick oven. A plain and very nice crust may be made with good beef dripping and a little baking-powder. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. This will make a dozen pasties. Servo one or two for each person. Probable cost. Id. each.