LAD (851 ) KRO Roll the paste out to the thickness of half an inch. Stamp in rounds with an ordinary cutter, prick the rounds with a fork, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suthcient for six or eight kringles. Kromeskies.—Kromeskies are croquettes cooked in the Russian manner; they are made as follows :—Mince the remains of any cold meat, fish, poultry, or shell-fish, as for cro- quettes ; season them nicely, and shape them, as usual, like a cork. Instead of dipping them in e"-g, and afterwards in bread-crumbs, cut 8ome° slices of cold fat bacon (boiled) as thin as waiting-paper; wrap the croquettes in these, dip each one in a little frying batter {see Batter for Frying), frj' them in hot clarified fat, and when brown and crisp, arrange neatly on a hot dish; garnish with fiied parsley, and serve immediately. Kromeskies may be made according to any of the recipes given for cro- quettes, and should be cooked as above. The following recipe will serve as a specimen. Kromeskies of Oysters.—Open care- fully one dozen fresh oysters. Beard them, and chop them small; then mince cold chicken or turkey very finely. Mix equal quantities, add three mushrooms cut into small pieces, the yolk of an egg, the oyster liquor, and a table-spoonful of cream. Stir the mix- ture over a slow fire until it is quite thick; then put it into a cool place for an hour, and when cold, roll it into croquettes the shape and size of small corks; fold thin fat bacon round these, dip them into a frying batter, and fry them in hot fat until they ai-e crisp and brown. Serve piled in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Time, six or eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, about 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kuwab Fowl.—Put four cloves, a drachm of poimdT3d ginger, a di'achm of cayeime, and haK an ounce of coriander-seed in a mortar. Pound these until quite smooth, and mix with them three small onions, finely minced. Divide a small chicken into neat joints; rub them inside and out with the mixture, and put them into a frying-pan, with a quarter of a pound of sweet butter. Turn them about constantly, and when they are brightly browned aU over and sufficiently cooked, squeeze over them the strained juice of a lemon, and serve as hot as possible. Time to cook, half an hour Pro- bable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Ladies' Pickle (sometimes called Ladies' JJolight).—ilix a quarter of a pound of Spanish onions, finely minced, with a quarter of a pound of chopped apples, and an ounce of chopped chilies. Pour over them half a pint of white wine vinegar, which has been boiled with a t(ia-Mpoonful of salt, and when cold put the mixture into bottles, to be used as a relish for cold meat. A stick of celery, finely minced, ia by many persons considered an improvement to this favourite pickle. Time, half an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Ladies' Wine Biscuits (sometimes" called Ladies' Lips).—Mix three ounces of ground rice and three ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Make them into a paste with three' fresh eggs. Beat all thoroughly for some minutes, then spread the mixture evenly and thinly on paper, and bake on a well-oiled tin for twenty minutes. Stamp the paste into small ornamental shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, and spread over them a thin coating of icing, prepared as foUows:—Beat the white of an egg to a firm fi'oth. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar and as much cold water as will make it quite smooth. Colour part of this with two or three drops of cochineal. Spread a little on the top of the biscuits, and put them into a cool oven until the icing sets. Keep the biscuits in a tin box, closely covered, imtil wanted for use. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. Lady Abbess' Pudding.—This excel- lent puading is sometimes called Lady Betty's Delight. Take the thin riad of a fresh lemon, and let it soak for half an hour in half a pint of new nulk, then sweeten with two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Put the whole into a saucepan, and when well heated, add two large fresh eggs and the milk of a cocoa-nut, and put the custard aside to cool. Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely, grate two ounces of a fresh cocoa-nut, and stone and mince six ounces of Muscatel raisins. Cut four ounces of stale bread into thin slices. Butter a plain round mould, and stick raisins upon it in even rows. Put a slice of bread at the bottom, and place upon it a little suet, a few raisins, a little chopped lemon-rind and juice, three grates of nutmeg, and a little custard, and repeat until all the ingredients are used, being careful to place bread and custard at the top. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then lay a buttered paper on the top, tie in a floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with the following sauce in a tureen. Mix a tea- epoonful of arrowroot very smoothly vdth. two table-spoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling sjTup flavoured with lemon-rind and cinnamon, stir all together untn the mixture is nearly cold, then add two table-spoonfuls of cream, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Time to boil the pudding, thi-ee hours and a half. Probable cost, with the sauce. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lady Abbess' Puffs. — Blanch six ounces of Jordan almonds. Throw them into cold water as they are done, and afterwards wipe them dry and pound them in a mortar, adding a few di'ops of rose or orange-flower water every now and then to prevent them oiling. Mix with them a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar and half an ounco of fresh butter. Pound to a smooth paste. Spread this evenly and thinly on small buttered patty-pans, and bake in a very slow oven until the puft's are crisp. Before serving, put a little