PAB ( 608 ) FAB if of moderate size. Probable cost, Ss. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Partridges, Boiled (Invalid Cookery). —Purtridj^cs aro uccuHioually boilod for old persons or invalids, and they are delicate and tender served thus. Wash them well, truss them as chickens are trussed for boiling, with- out the heads. Drop them into boiling water, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over thoni, and let tliein simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour, or if the birds are old, twenty miixutos. Servo them with sliced lemon round the dish, and with white sauco, celery sauce, or broad sauce, accompanied by game gravy, iu a tureen. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. SutHcient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised (a la Beamaise).— Pluck and draw a brace of partridges, and wipe them carefully with a damp cloth inside and out, cut off the heads, and truss the legs like those of boiled fowls. Put them into a stewpan, with two-tablc-spoonfuls of oil and a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and turn them about over a clear fire until they are slightly browned all over, then pour over them two table-spoonfuls of strong stock, one glassful of sherry, and two table-spoonfuls of preserved tomatoes, with a little salt, and plenty of pepper. Simmer all gently together until the partridges are done enough, and serve very hot; the sauce should be rather highly seasoned. Time, about ten minutes to simmer the partridges. Probable cost of partridges, Ss. per brace; the price, however, is very variable. Sufficient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised (alaReine).—Truss a brace of partridges as if for boiUng. Fill them with good game forcemeat, in which there are two or three truffles cut into small pieces, and tie thin slices of fat bacon over them. Slice a small carrot into a stewpan, ^vith an onion, four or five sticks of celery, two or three sprigs of parsley, and an oimce of fresh butter. Place the partridges on these, breasts uppermost, pour over them half a pint of good stock, cover with a round of buttered paper, and simimer as gently as possible, until the partridges are done enough. Strain the stock, free it carefully from grease, thicken it with a little flour, add as much browning as is necessary, and flavour with cayenne, half a dozen drops of the essence of anchovy, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Stir this sauce over a gentle fiie until it is on the point of boiling, then pour it over the partridges, already dished upon toast, and serve immediately. Tune, about an hour and a half or less, to simmer the par- tridges. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. Sufficient for three or four persons. Partridges, Braised, wltli Cabbage. - Pluck and draw two partridges, truss them as if for boiling, and cover with thin slices of bacon, tied on securely with strong twine. Trim and wash two small cabbages, or a savoy, boil them, uncovered, for a quarter of an hour, and afterwards drain them thoroughly. Shce a carrot, an onion, and some sticks of celery, into a stewpan. Put with them three ounces of fresh butter, a large lump of sugar, crushed to powder, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and a little salt, the quan- tity to be regulated by the quality of tlio bacon. Put a layer of cabbage over those, then lay in the partridges, breasts upitennost, and after- wards the rest of tlio cabbage. Cover the whole with good stock, then sinmior as gently as possible until the partridges are done enough; keep muistening them witli gravy, if rotjuired. Dish tlio buds upon tlie biicon, and put the cabbage round them. To make the gravy, uux an oimco of butter with an ounce of flour, and stir them over the fire for three minutf;8, add a pint of good stock, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Strain the gravy into a tureen, and servo immediately. Fried sausages are often sent to table with this dish, which is a great favourite in France. Time, about one hour and a half to simmer the birds, &c. I'roljable cost of piirtridges, 38. per brace, but the price vai-ies. Sufliciont for four persons. Partridges, Braised, with Mush- rooms.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss as for boiling, a brace of young well-kept partridges. Dredge a little flour over them, and brown them equally and lightly in hot butter. Put them side by side into a stewpan, pour to them as much rich brown gravy, seasoned with salt and cayenne, as will hjilf cover them, and let them stew very gently until they are half done. Turn them over, put into the gravj'- wth them two dozen small mushrooms, and simmer again until the birds are done enough. Serve them on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Time, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges, Braised, with Trufles.— Truss three young well-hung partridges, and braise them according to the directions given in the last recipe. Wash, wipe, and pare two or three fine truffles. Cut them into thin slices, put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and cayenne, a finely-minced shallot, and two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Fry them gently for about a quarter of an hour, and be careful not to break them; then drain them, and put with them half an ounce of butter, the strained juice of a lemon, and a quarter of a pint of the brown gravy in which the partridges have been cooked. Let the sauce boil. Drain the partridges. Place them on a hot dish, in the form of a triangle, pour part of the sauce into the centre, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, one hour and a half to cook the birds ; a quarter of an hour to fry the truffles. Probable cost of partridges, Is. 6d. each; truffles, variable. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges, Broiled.—Prepare the part- ridges as if for roasting; cut off their heads, spht them entirely up the back, and flatten the breastbones a little. AVipe them thoroughly inside and out with a damp cloth, scjison with salt and cayenne, and broil over a gentle fire. As soon as they are done enough rub them quickly over with butter, and send them to table on a hot dish, ^\-ith brown gnivy or mushroom sauce in a tureen. Time, fifteen minutes to broil the partridges. Probable coat.