LOB LOB ( 889 ) hour to bake. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. each. Lobster Quenelles.—Pick the meat from a freshly-boilod hen lobster. Pound the flesh of the claws, the coral, and the spawn in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of butter, the flesh of a large whiting, and six ounces of panada {see Panada). Add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and season with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of salt, a grain of cayenne, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. VVhen thoroughly j)ounded, form the forcemeat into the shape of the bowl of a spoon. The queneUes may be either fried in hot butter, and served with lobster sauce as an entree, or be used for garnish, &c. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Quenelles (another way).—See Quenelles, Lobster, for Fish Soups. Lobster, Hissoles of.—Pick the meat from a small newly-boiled fresh lobster. Mince it finely, and mix with it half a tea- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, and a pinch of cayenne, and pour upon it the strained juice of half a small lemon. Fry an inch of sliced onion in butter until tender, pour over it a quarter of a pint of cream, simmer for three or four minutes, then put in the minced lobster; add the yolks of two eggs, and stir all over the fire untU the eggs are set. Spread the mixture on a dish, and let it remain until cold. KoU out some good pufl: paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Place small balls of the mince upon it at short distances ■ from each other. Moisten the paste round them with a little water, and cover them -with more paste. Press ■ the edges securely, trim them neatly, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in hot fat tmtil lightly browned. Dish them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Probable cost of small lobster, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Hoast. — Lobsters are occa- sionally half roasted and half boiled, instead of being boUed until done enough in the usual way. When half done, they are taken out of the water^ dried, rubbed over with butter, placed on a dish before the fire, and basted liberally until they are well frothed. The usual plan, however, is the best. Lobster Salad.—Pick the meat from the body of a lobster, take out the tail part in one piece, and cut it, with the contents of the claws, into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Chop the whites of two hard-boiled eggs smaU, and rub the yolks through a hair sieve. Do the same with the spawn or coral of the lobster, but mix the soft part and any bits with the sauce. Pour the sauce into the bowl, put in a layer of shred lettuce and small salad, and place the slices of lobster, with hard-boiled eggs, quartered, and interspersed with sliced beetroot, cucumber, &c., on the top. Repeat in the same manner until the bowl is full, sprink- ling the egg and coral over and between the layers. To ornament, reserve some of the hard-boiled eggs, yolks and whites; arrange these, with the coral, beetroot, and sliced lobster, so that the colours may contrast well. Before serving, poiir some mayonmiise sauce over the top. Crab may be prepared in the same manner. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Lobster Salad (another way). — In making lobster salad be careful that the lobster is sweet and fresh, and that the lettuces are crisp and dry. Unless the latter are perfectly free from moisture, the sauce, instead of blending properly, will be liable to float in oily particles on the top. Take the meat of one or two large lobsters. Divide it into neat pieces, and season each piece slightly with pepper,. salt, and vinegar. Place a bed of shred lettuce- hearts at the bottom of a dish, put a layer of lobster upon it, mixed, if liked, with a few slices of cucumber; cover again with lettuce, and repeat until the materials are exhausted. Decorate the border mth any garnish that may suit the taste. It may consist of aspic jelly cut in dice, sliced beetroot, stamped with a cutter, hard-boUed eggs cut into quarters, lettuce-hearts, nasturtium flowers, sci'aped radishes, &c. &c. Pour the sauce over at the last moment, and sprinkle a little powdered and sifted lobster coral on the top. Mayonnaise sauce is the most suitable for all fish salads. It is made as follows :—Beat the yolk of one raw egg until thick. Add a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a salt-spoonful of mustard, half a pint of oU, and a quai-ter of a 4)int of vinegar. After the salt, pepper, and mustard, the oil should be added, in drops at first, and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce should be beaten a minute between each addition. After every six tea-spoonfuls of oil put in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. When finished, the sauce should have the appearance of thick cream. Taste it before serving, to ascertain if the seasoning be agreeable. If the mayonnaise is made before it is to be used, it should be kept in a cool place. Time, an hour to prepare the salad. Probable cost, from 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Lobster Salad (a German recipe). — Arrange the lobster and the salad as in the last recipe. Boil two eggs untU quite hard. Let them get cold, then cut the white part into slices, and lay them on the top of the salad, with a table- spoonful of bruised capers. Eub the yolks smoothly with the back of a spoon; mix with them a raw egg, weU beaten, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, salt, pepper, and sugar, a shallot finely minced, and four table-spoonfuls of salad-oU. The oil must be added in very small quantities at first, and the mixture well beaten between each addition. When well mixed and quite smooth, add one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and, if the sauce is not sufficiently acid to suit the taste, add another spoonful of white wine vinegar. Toast three slices of the crumb of bread, cut them into small triangular pieces, butter them, spread a little caviar upon them, and put them round the salad. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to prepare, an hour. Probable cost, Ss. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster Salad Dressing.—Sauce mayonnaise, as given in the last recipe but ona is the most suitable dressing for lobster salad.