DUG ( 188 ) DtJC juice of a small lemon. Time to Btow the g-iblots, throo liours. Probable cost, Is. per quart. SutHuiout for ton purdons. Dtick, Gravy for. —Boil the giblets (omitting tlio livor) in a pint of wator for an hour, adding to them a small onion chopped, and salt and popper to taste. Strain, colour with a little browning, and stir up with a toa- spoonful of coratch, and the same of muslu-oom ketchup. Or, good stock lightly mixed with browned flour may be used instead of water for boiling the giblets: and the addition of a little rod wine will increase the richness of the gravy. Duck, Gravy for (another way).—Take the necks and gizzards of two ducks, a spoonful of port wine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a slice of the ond of a lemon, an onion, and a little pepper; add a pint of wator, and boil to half a pint; strain through a sieve on to a spoonful of browning mado of burnt sugar, and pour over the ducks. Duck, Hashed.—Divide a roast duck into joints, take off the skin and lay the joints with some good gravy in a stewpan, add a little mixed spice, a glass of port, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne, skim from aU. fat, and when thoroughly hot thicken with butter and flour, and strain and serve the duck on a dish, the gravy round it, and with a garnish of bread sip- pets ; or cut up the duck and boil the trimmings, adding sliced onion previously fried in butter to one pint of stock, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-peel, two of lemon-juice, and a half glass of port wine. Season with salt and pepper, and when it has well boiled, sldm, strain, thicken, and add it to the duck. Stew, - but do not boil. Serve as before with sippets of bread as a garnish. Time, fiiteen to twenty minutes to stew. Suf&cient for four or five persons. Duck Pie.—Previous to putting the duck into the pie-dish, boil it for about fifteen minutes, but first cut off the neck and wings, which should be stewed for a few minutes with the giblets in a stewpan containing two ounces of good butter, a bunch of herbs, an onion sliced, an anchovy, a blade of mace, some salt, pepper, and a drachm of cayenne. When the butter has dissolved, pour in half a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for a full hour; then strain and add the mixture to the gravy from the dock. Cut up the duck neatly, and arrange it in the pie-dish, adding more seasoning if required; skim off aU fat from the gravy, which should be cold, and pour it into the dish. Cover with a puff, or any crust liked. Time, one hour to bake. Sufficient for four or more persons. Duck, Hoast.—This universal favourite reqmres no praise. "Without entering into the question of the best duck, we say at once, take a young farm-yard duck fattened at liberty, but cleansed by being shut up two or three days and fed on barley-meal and water. Two small young ducks make a better dish than a large, handsome, hard-fleshed drake, which, as a rule, is best fit for a stew, or to be cooked en braise {see Duck, Braised). If the poul- terer does ixot prepare the duck, it must be plucked, singed, and emptied; the feet scalded, skinned, and twisted round on the back of the bird; head, nock, and piniouH cut off, the latter at the first joint, and all skewered firmly to give the breast a nice plump appear- ance. For the stuUbig, take lialf a pound of onions, a tea-spoonlul of powdered sage, three table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, the hver of duck parboiled and minced with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Cut the onions veri/ fine, throw boiling wator over them, and cover for ten minutes; drain through a gravy strainer, and add the bread-crumbs, minced liver, sage, pepper and salt to tasto; mix, and put it inuide the duck. This quantity is for one duck; more onion and sago may bo added, but we recommend the above as a deUcate compound not likely to disagree with the stomach. Let the duck bo hung a day or two, according to the weather, to make the fiesh tender. Roast before a brisk clear fire, baste often, and dredge with flour to make the bird look frothy. Serve with a good brown gravy in the dish, and apple sauce in a tureen. Time: ducks, three-quarters of an hour to an hour; ducklings, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Ss. to 4s. each. Sufficient, two ducks for seven or eight persona. A BOAST DUCK. Duck, Roast, To Carve.—A young duckling should be carved in the same way as a fowl, the leg and wing being taken off, first of all, on either side {see Fowl, Roast, To Carve). A full-sized bird should be carved hke a goose. First cut shoes from the breast, in the direction indicated in the figure by the dotted lines from a to b. The first slices are to be cut close to the wing; then proceed upwards towards the breast-bone. The legs and wings may afterwards be attacked. An opening is to made, shown by the dotted line c, to get at the stuffing. Duck, Salmi of.—Take the giblets of a duck, stew them gently in veal-gravy seasoned with cayenne, three finely-shred shallots, and some pepper and salt. Roast the duck, cut it up, and lay it in a stewpan with the gravy. Simmer till quite hot, then squeeze a bitter orange into the sauce, strain it over the duck, and send to table hot. More seasoning may be added for the English palate. Salmis are great favourites with French epicures; they are a species of moist devil, sufficiently piquant, ns a rule, to please a Frenchman's taste. Time: twenty minutes to roast; twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck, Stewed, with Cabbage.—Roast a nice fat duck before a clear fire for about twenty minutes; let it be well seasoned with