(48) boiled long enough to give the desired flavour, ati-tiin and put it iiguia into the atowpan with the flour and butter, keeping it stirred until perfectly smooth, then strain it again. Some cooks mix lemon-juice and yolks of eggs with I3echamel in order to enrich it. They accomplish their object and make the sauce richer, but they destroy its distinctive chiu-acter, for by these additions they produce not Bechamel, but Alle- mande Sauce. Cost, about 6d. per pint. Bechamel, or French White Sauce. —As white stock is the foundation for this sauce it must be prepared first. Boil down an old fowl, two or three pounds of the knuckle of veal, and three of very loan ham, with the white parts of four carrots, two onions, one blade of mace, some white peppercorns, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and an ounce of butter, in four or five quarts of water. Cut up the fowl and veal, and put them with the ham to simmer, in a small quantity of water, till the juices are extracted; then throw in the fuU quantity of water, about tlireo and a half quarts to the other ingredients. Let the liquid simmer from four to five hours. Skim and strain till clear, when it is ready for the bechamel. Mix a table-spoonful of arrowroot with a pint of cream, and when well blended let it simmer in a carefully-cleaned pan for four or five minutes. Make one pint of the stock hot and pour it to the cream ; simmer slowly for ten minutes or until it thickens. If two thick add a little stock. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Bechamel, or French White Sauce (another way).—Take one quart of good white stock, put it into a stewpan with an onion, a few mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, parsley, a blade of mace, and a little salt; boil tUl it has extracted the flavour of the herbs, and the stock is reduced to about half—then strain. Put one pint of thick or double cream into a clean stewpan, mix the reduced stock very gradually with it, and stir all the time until it thickens over a slow fire. If the ordinary thin cream be used mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot very smoothly into it, and simmer slowly five minutes before adding it to the stock. Time, about two hours. Pro- bable cost, about Is. 2d. per piut. Bechamel, or French White Sauce (another way).—Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, and noix an ounce of fiour with it. Add half a pint of white stock or water, a small carrot, three button mushrooms, and an ounce of lean ham. Stir the sauce till it boils, draw it back and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the sauce, boil it again, and add a quarter of a pint of cream. These quantities will make three-quarters of a pint of sauce. Beef.—Beef is considered by many the best and most wholesome, as it is certainly the most economical moat that can be purchased for family use. It is in season all the year round, though it can be had in perfection in winter only, because then the joints can be hung until the meat is quite tender. The heart, head, sweetbreads, and kidneys should always be used fresh. Ox beef is the best: the flesh is smoothly grained and rather open; if the animal is young it rises when pressed with tlie finger. The lean is of a bright red colour, and the fat white rather than yellow. Very lean beef is always of inferior quality, wliilht very fat l)eef is objectionable because it in so wasteful. Heifer beef is the best for small families : the grain ia closer, the coloui- jjaler, SECTIONAL DIAQBAM OF THE OX. A Rump. B Mouse Buttock, c Leg, or Hock. D Buttock, or Eound. E Aitchbone, or Top. F Sirloin. G Fore Eibs. H Middle Eibs. I Chuck Eibs. J Neck, Clod, or Stick- ing Piece. K Shin. L Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. M Brisket. N Thin Flank, o Thick Flank, p Veiny Piece. and the fat whiter than ox beef. Bull beef is dark in colour, with a coarse grain, very little fat, and a strong, meaty smell. It should never be chosen. If beef is to be tender the joints should be hung as long as the weather will permit. In summer time they should be examined everj' day, and any moisture that may arise should be scraped off. Beef that is to be roasted should not be washed unless it is quite necessary. If any part has been touched with flies it may be rubbed with a cloth which has been dipped in vinegar, then dried quickly. Powdered charcoal rubbed over the meat will restore it if shghtly tainted. Before hanging the joints care should be taken to remove the soft cord which runs dowTi the bone of the sirloin and ribs, and to trim off all