CBA CRA ( 169 ) and place in it alternate layers of cranberries and sugar. Boil gently and skim carefully. The preserve must bo kept in closely-covered jars. Time, twenty minutes after it comes to a boil. Sufficient, one pound of fruit for one pound of jam. Cranberry Gruel (Invalib Cookeuy). —A few cranberries boiled in a little thin gruel, sweetened and flavoured with grated nutmeg, is a pleasant change for an invalid. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, half a cupful of cranberries ^A-ith their juice for half a pint of gruel. Cranberry Jelly.—Make half a pint of very strong isinglass jelly, using nearly an ounce of isinglass to the half pint of jelly. "When it is clear, add a pint of cranberiy- juice which has been drawn out over the fixe and pressed from the fruit. Sweeten the liquid with half a pound of best loaf sugar. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and the whites and shells of three eggs. Simmer the preparation gently without stirring it for a few minutes, let it stand to settle, strain it until clear, and poOT it into a mould. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Cranberry Tart.—Wash the cranberries in several waters. Allow a quarter of apovmd of sugar and two cloves to every pint of cran- berries, and partially cook them before putting them into the tart. Three-parts fill a pie-dish with the fruit, cover it with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Before baking the tart, brush it aU over with cold water, and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Sufficient, a pint of cranberries will make a tart for three persons. Cranberry and Ground Rice Jelly. —Draw out a pint of cranberry-jiiice by jjut- ting the fruit and two or three cloves into a closely-covered jar, placing the jai- in a sauce- pan of cold water on a moderate fire, and simmering gently for about half an hour. Mix the juice with three table-spoonfuls of ground rice and two of sugar, boil it gently imtil it thickens, and pour it into a mould which has been immersed in cold water. When cold, turn it out, and eat it with a little cream. A quarter of an hour to boil with the rice. Sufficient for four persons. Craippet Heads.—Thoroughly wash the heads oi haddocks. Skin them and take out the eyes._ Fill the heads with a forcemeat made by mincing the boiled and skinned roe -svith double its weight in bread-crumbs, a httle finely- chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to ^taste. Bind this forcemeat together with yolk of egg. Fasten the heads securely with strong thread, place them standing at the bottom of a buttered stewpan, pour fish-soup over them, and boil them gently. Before serving them remove the thread. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Sufficient, one for each person. Crayfish in Jelly.—Crayfish are some- thmg like lobsters, but smaller, and the flesh more dehcate; indeed, thev are more useful and dobcious than any other sholl-fish, and if every housekeeper were to inquire for them two or ' three times at the fishmonger's they would soon ! become plentiful. There are several kinds; those are considered the best which are reddish under the claws. To serve them in jelly, take a ■ pint of fish for rather less than a pint of savoury I jelly {see Aspic JeUy). Put a little jelly at ; the bottom of a mould; when it is cold, lay the crayfish upon it, and repeat this until the materials are finished, but care must be taken to let the jelly stiffen each time or all wUl sink to the bottom, and also to put the fish in with the back do-WTiwards, or they will be wrong side up when turned out. Garnish with parsley. This is a pretty dish. Time, thirty-six hours or more. Probable cost, crayfish, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for a quart mould. Crayfish., Potted.—Boil the fish in water with plenty of salt in it. Pick out the meat and pound it well in a mortar with a little grated nutmeg or pounded mace, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of fresh butter. An ounce of butter may be allowed to a pint of crayfish. Put the paste into small jars, cover these with clarified butter, and cover closely. Time, ten minutes to boil the crayfish. Probable cost, 2s. per quart. Crayfish Soup, or Potage Bisque (delicious).—Take fifty crayfish (or one hundred prawns, if crayfish cannot be obtained). Re- move the gut from the centre fin of the tail, or it will make the soup bitter. Shell the fish and keep the tails whole. Pound the shells with four ounces of fresh butter, the crumb of % French roll, and thi-ee anchovies, and put them in a stewpan with two quarts of fish stock, four ounces of washed rice, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Simmer for two hours. Put the pounded meat, but not the tails, into the soup, simmer again, then press the whole through a sieve. Make the soup hot before sei-ving it, but do not let it boil. Five minutes before it is taken from the fire put in the tails whole. Serve with toasted sippets. A tumbler of wine is an improvement to this soup. Pro- bable cost, crayfish, 2s. per quart. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Crayfish, To Dress.—Wash the cray- fish and boil them in water with salt in it for ten minutes. TTiey should be a bright red when done. Drain them. Pile them on a napkin, inTamid fonn, and garnish the dish with parsley. Probable cost, 2s. per qustrt. Sufficient, a quart for a dish. Crayfish, To Keep Alive.—Crayfish may be kept alive for two or three days if they are put into a bucket with a little drop of water, not quite an inch deep, at the bottom. The water must be changed everj- five or six. hours. Crayfish, To Stew.—Take a quart of crayfish, remove the gut from the centre fin of the tail, and pick the meat from the tails. Pound the bodies, with four ounces of butter, and put them into a stewpan with four pints of water, a spoonful of vinegar, half a nutmeg grated, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently for half an hour. Strain, and thicken the sauce with a little flour. Add the tails. When they are hot, pour the whole over a slice