(3& ) ATTN tliiok enough. Strain, and while boiling hot add two tea-spooufuls of Liobig's extract of moat. Add popper, and a liberal Bupply of sjtlt. Then chop and pound together a cabbage Icttiico, a toa-Bpoouful of chopped mint, a tea- spoonful of sorrol, the same oi marjoram, five or six loaves of beetroot, and tlio same of spinach. Put them into the liquid, and lot all boil together. Throw in a pint of asparagus tops, cut small, and boil till they aro tender. Pour hot over a French roll. Time, three hours. SufBciont for half a dozen persons. I'robablo cost, fi-ora lOd. to Is. 6d. per pint. Asparagus Stewed in French Rolls. —Take two or tliroe French rolls, cut a piece off the top straight, so that it can be fixed on again, and scoop out all the cnunb. Make a mixtiu-e of a pint of new milk, the yolks of five eggs, a littlo salt, pepper, and powdered cinna- mon. Put it into a saucepan and let it simmer gently, Stirling constantly until it thickens. Boil a hundred yoimg asparagus, cut about two inches from the tops, and chop them small, leaving about a dozen and a half of the tops untouched. Fill the hollow rolls with the hot mixture ; make some holes in the lids of the roUs, stick the green ends that were not chopped into them, to look as if the asparagus were growing through the rolls, lay the tops on, and fry in boiling oil or lard. It will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to boil the as- paragus. Probable cost of asparagus, 28. 6d. a hundred, when in fuU season. Sufficient for six persons. Aspic Game or Poultry.—Cut up what is left of game or poultry into neat joints. Pour some aspic jeUy into the bottom of a mould which has been soaked in cold water; next a laj^er of stars or diamonds cut out of cold boiled white of egg; a few leaves of parsley, and the red part of cold boiled tongue dotted here and there. Let it become nearly stiff, then arrange the cold game or poultry, taking care to leave room for the jelly to run in between. Fill the mould with jelly, which shoiild be cool Avhen it is poured m. When quite stiff, turn on a mould and garnish with parsley. Time to stiffen, about twelve hours. Aspic Jelly. — Put a knuckle-bone of veal, a knuckle-bone of ham, a calf's foot, four cloves stuck into one large onion, one large carrot, and a bunch of savoury herbs, in two quarts of water, and boil gently until it is reduced rather more than half. Strain, and put it aside to cool. Very carefully remove every particle of fat or sediment, and place the jelly in a saucepan with a glass of white vfine, a table-spoonful of tan-iigon vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and the whites of two eggs. Keep stirring imtil it nearly boils, which may be known by its becoming white, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Put on the cover, lot it stand to settle, and strain through a jcUy-bag two or three times if necessary, imtil it is quite clear. Put it into n, mould which has been soaked in cold water. Timv, four or five houis. Kulficicnt for two and a half pints of jeUy. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Aspic JeUy (a quick way of making), —lake a pint of liicely-liavourod, clear aUjtk, put It into a saucepan with a glaas of wliite wme,andadesBort-spooni'ul of tarragon vinegar 1 ut a large table-spoonful of gelatine with two ot water, let it swell, tlicn stir it in with tho stock till is dissolved; add tho whites and crushed shells of two eggs, draw it back, and let it simmer for ten minutes; strain through a jelly-bag till clear, and pour it into a mould tliat has been soaked in cold water. Time to make, about half an hour. Sufficient for a pint and a half of jelly. Probable cost, lOd. Aspic Jelly for Garnishing.—Take two pints of nicely-flavoured stock, of a clear and firm jelly; put this into a saucepan with a blade of mace, a table-spoonful of tar- ragon vinegar, and a glass of sherry. Let it boil, then stir into it an ounce of the best gelatine which has been soaked in a little cold water. When again cool add the whisked whites of two eggs, let it boil, then draw it on one side to settle, strain through a jeUy- bag imtil quite clear, and pour it on a dish which has been standing in cold water. Cut it into dice for garnishing. Time to make, about an hour. Sufficient for two and a half pints of jelly. Probable cost, lOd. without the wine. Aoses' Milk, Artificial.—Boil an ounce of pearl barley and an ounce of eringo root in a quart of water until it is reduced one half. Stir into it half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little water, a pint of new milk, and two lumps of sugar. Time, one hour. Sufficient for one quart. Probable cost, 8d. Asses' Milk, Artificial (a quick way of making).—Take a tea-spoonful of prepared barley. ]Mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of water, and stir it into half a pint of boiling water. Put with it a lump of sugar-candy. Let it simmer, stirring all the time, for five minutes. Strain it, then mix with it half a pint of new milk, and a well-beaten new-laid egg. This is a wholesome and agi'eeable drink for invalids. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint and a half. Athole Cakes (very good).—Mix two table-spoonfuls of finely-sijfted sugar, with half a pound of Maizena, and a heaped tea-spoon- ful of the best baking-powder. Shred finely the thin rind of a lemon and a small piece of candied peel. Stir in another bowl six oimces of butter to a cream, mix with it the above ingredients, and last of all, add two well-beaten eggs. Well oil patty-pans, put a piece about the size of a walnut into each, and bake in a good oven for five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two dozen cakes. Aunt Alice's Pudding.—Place a little jam at the bottom of a pie-dish. Mix three table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one table- spoonful of sugar, a little chopped lemon- rind, the juice of half a lemon with two eggs, and a tea-cupfid of milk. Pour it over the jam, and bake in a good oven. A vcr>' nice pudding may bo made by substituting nieces of stale