CUT CUT ( 179) covered with egg and bread-crumbs or frying batter. The cutlets should be trimmed evenly, CCILET BAT. and then atruck sharply on both sides with the flat side of the bat, when they will be ready for the batter. Probable cost, 58. 6d. each. Cutlets (a ritalienne).—Cut two pounds of the fillet of veal in slices about three-quarters of an inch thick. Shape them into round cutlets three inches in diameter, flour them well, and fry them in hot butter until done enough. When they are browned the pan should be held high above the fire, and eovered so that the cutlets may become sufiiciently cooked without being dry. Serve them on macaroni, which has been stewed until tender, and send brown gravy to table in a tureen. The gravy should be well flavoured with fresh tomatoes, when seasonable. At other times tomato sauce may be used. Time, a quarter of an horn* to fry the cutlets. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cutlets (a la Maintenon).—Cutlets were, it is said, first served in this way under the direction of Madame de Maintenon, to tempt the failing appetite of Louis XIV. Ac- cording to the original recipe they should be dressed en papillote, but as this is a difficult operation, and the paper is almost sure to look untidy and greasy, it would be better for ordi- nary purposes to make a little writing-paper hot, and -svrap the cutlet in it after it is broiled. Cut and trim some cutlets. Shape them neatly, and flatten them, then dip each one in beaten egg, and afterwards in bread-crumbs mixed with chopped parsley, savoury herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, cook them quickly in it, turn them that they may be equally cooked through- out, and just before serving t^vist some hot writing paper round each. Send stewed mush- rooms to table with them, or a puree of sorrel, spinach, or green peas, in the middle. Time, eight minutes to fiy the cutlets. Allow one for each. Probable cost. Is. Cutlets (a la Venitienne). — Chop sepa- rately half a pint of mushrooms, two shallots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Mix them thoroughly and stew them for ten minutes over a small fire in a little butter, with a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over two pounds of veal cutlets, put them into the saucepan, and cook them gently till quite tender. Add a large spoonful of sauce toimiee. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, then thicken the sauce with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with a little cream. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Time, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five porsoofl* Cutlets (au Jambon).—Outlets an jambon are cooked in the same way as Cutlets a la Chingara {see Cutlets, Veal, a la Chingara), with the exception of ham being substituted for the tongue. Cutlets of Lobster or Crab.—Mince very finely and pound in a mortar the flesh of a small hen lobster or a crab, and season it with salt and cayenne, whilst it is being pounded. Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and dredge very slowly into it one table-spoonful of flour; when smooth add a gill of water. Stir till the sauce boils, then add a little cream, a tea-spoonful of lobster butter {see Lobster Butter) and the pounded fish. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is quite hot, then take it put , in a table-spoon, and lay it on a large dish.^ When quite cold, make it up in the shape of mutton cutlets, brush these over with beaten egg, strew finely-grated bread-criimbs over them, and fry them in boiling lard or dripping till lightly browned. Stick a little bit of claw into each cutlet, and garnish the dish with parsley. If oysters are used, a bit of stick may be used instead of the claw. Time to fry, two or thi-ee minutes. Probable cost, one large lobster, Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a large dish. Cutlets, Lamb (a la Dauphine).—Cut two poimds of cutlets from the best end of the neck, shape them neatly, trim off the fat and skin, and leave about an inch of bone bare. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stew- pan. Let it get quite hot, then fry the cutlets in it for a few minutes, but do not let the butter brown. Drain them, and let the butter cool; mix with it the yolks of three eggs. Pass the cut- lets through it until they are thickly covered. Strew bread-crumbs over them, and fiy them once more. Dish them in a circle, with a puree of green peas in the middle of the dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. per poutnd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cutlets, Sauce for.—Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and mix very gradually with it an ounce of fine flour. Let it brown slightly, then add enough boiling water to make it as thick as cream, season with salt and cayenne, and vary the flavour by the addition of finely-chopped gherkins, mushroom or walnut pickle, fresh to- matoes, or tomato sauce, a minced shallot, and a glass of red wine, &c. &c. Time, a few minutes. Sufficient, a quarter of a pint of sauce for one pound of cutlets. Cutlets, Veal (a la Chingara).—Take two pounds of the best part of a fillet of veal. Cut it in neat slices not less than an. inch thick, and shape these neatly in rounds the size of the top of a tea-cup. Have a piece of cold boiled tongue for each cutlet, as nearly as possible the same size and shape. Put the trimmings of the cutlets, a little piece of rasped ham, a carrot, a large onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a sprig of pars- ley, into a saucepan with a pint of good veal stock. Let them simmer gently for an hour or more. Strain the Uquid, and put it on one side for use. Flour the cutlets, and frj'them in hot butter tiU they are sufficiently cooked, but not