BLA suiHiuor, a week in -winter. When wanted to serve, broil gently over a slow fire; but this requires greiit care, to prevent the skin from crackmg. The best way is to sot it for a few minutes in the oven of a cooking-stove, or in a Dutch or American oven, in front of an open kitchen-range. Black Puddings (another way).—Boil and dry three-quartci-a of a pound of rice; cut away all the crust from a quartern loaf, and throw two quarts of new milk on it. When the milk is absorbed by the bread, mix it with ; the rice, and a quart of blood from a fresh- killed pig. Have ready a seasoning of nutmeg, aUspice, and ground ginger (a quarter of an ounce of each), a table-spoonful of onion and . chopped thjTue, the same of salt, half the quantity of black pepper, and a dozen cloves, all pounded; add these, with two pounds of well- shi-ed sues and five or six well-beaten eggs, to the rice. Mix all well together, and add about two poimds of the inner fat of a pig cut into dice. When the ingredients are sufficiently blended press into sausage-skins, which must be only partly filled, to allow the meat to swell, so as to prevent bursting. Straw is generally laid in the bottom of the boiler, and the puddings are pricked, tiea into links, and boiled for at least one hour. When taken up they must be laid out on a cloth to dry, and then hung up for use. To warm, lay them in boil- ing water in a deep dish, and then toast before the fire or on a gridiron. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for twelve large puddings. Black Puddings (a la Fran(;aise).— Mince four large onions very fine, and stew them in lard with a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, pepper, salt, and allspice to taste, and a quarter of a pound of pork fat, cut into small dice. Stir two pints of pigs' blood while hot, with a little vinegar, a table-spoon- ful to a quart to prevent clotting, and mix it well with the seasoning. Fill the skins and divide them by strings into the length wished ; they may be stewed for twenty minutes, or merely thrown into boiling water till firm. To try if they are sufficiently done, a large needle is used: if only fat flows they may be hung up to dry; they should then bo rubbed over with butter, and tied up in a muslin bag, to give them a glossy appearance. When used they should be boiled long enough to heat them through, or cut into slices and fried. Blanch., To.—To blanch meat or vegetables is to plunge them into boiling water for a given length of time, generally two or three minutes; then throw them into a bowl of spring water and leave them until cold. With meat this is done for the purpose of giving firmness to the flesh, and thus facilitating the operation of larding, and also to preser\'e the whiteness of certain meats, such as rabbits or fowls. With vegetables it is done to keep them green, and to take away their acrid flavour. Ox tongues, palates, and almonds, fruit kernels, &c., are said to be blanched, when through the action of hot water the skin can be easily peeled off; calves' heads and feet are blanched to soften them, and thus make them easier to trim and prepare for cooking, and for this the cold water is not required. Blancmange.—Blanch ten (only) bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste, adding by degrees a third of a pint of cold water ; let it stand till settled, and strain off the liquid. Put into a pint of milk five ounces of loaf sugar, two inches of stick vanilla, and two of cinnamon, and pour it into an enamelled saucepan. Boil slowly tUl the sugar is dissolved, then stir in one ounce of isinglass, and strain all into a basin; add the liquid from the almonds, with a gill of cream. When cold, pour the mixture into a mould and place it in a cool place till it is firmly set. Probable cost, about 2s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Blancmange (anotherway).—Dissolve in a saucepan, over a gentle fire, two ounces of the best isiaglass in two pints of new milk. Add the rind of a lemon and a pint of cream ; boU for a quarter of an hour and take out the rind. Sweeten, and flavour either with cinnamon, rose, or orange-flower water, or vaniUa. While cooling, stir in a little white wine and brandy, pour into moulds, and allow it to become fixed in a cool place. Blancmange (another way).—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and pour over it a pint of boilmg mUk. Stir till quite dissolved. Simmer two ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, in an additional half-pint of mUk or cream until pleasantly flavoured. Add sugar to taste, then mix with the dissolved gelatine. Strain into a mould, and turn out next day. Garnish with flowers and blanched sweet almonds. Blancmange, American.—Mix one ounce of arrowroot with a tea-cupful of cold water, and let it stand some minutes, until the arrowroot is settled. Pour off the water, and substitute a little orange-flower or laurel water. Boil with a pint of new milk, a stick of cinna- mon, the thinly-cut rind of a lemon, or any seasoning that may be preferred. Pour it when I boiling upon the arrowroot, stirring all the time. Put it into a mould, set it in a cool I place, and it will be ready for use the following day. Time to boil, a few minutes. Sufficient for a pint mould. Probable cost. 6d. Blancmange, American (another way).—Prepare a paste as directed in Blanc- mange, but with eight or ten pounded Brazil nuts instead of almonds. Beat up four eggs, and add gradually five tea-spoonfuls of Oswegc or Indian corn-flour. Dissolve four ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of new miUc, add the liquor of the nuts, and simmer for five minutes, and draw it off the fire for another five minutes ; then strain in the eggs, stirring quickly over a slow fire until it thickens. Pour the mixture into a mould, and let it stand in a cool place until it becomes firm. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a pint and a haH mould. Blancmange, Bice.—Blanch almonds and pound to a paste, as already directed for blancmange, using a little more cold water.