( 321 ) HUH HTTN over it. Have ready some spinach. Press it iuto small balls; flatten these on the top, and lay a pouched e^g upon each. Put the fowl in the middle. Thicken the gravy, poui- it over the fowl, and serve as hot as possible. A few stewed mushrooms may be sent to table on a sepiirate dish. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Probable cost of fowl, 2s. 6d. HuHgarian Tongue (a German recipe). —Take a fresh bullock's-tongue. Put it into a stowpan with a carrot, an onion, a clove of gai-lic, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, half a fi-esh lemon sliced, and as much water as will cover it. Let it boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the tongue is quite tender. Take ofl: the skin, and trim the tongue neatly; strain and reduce the gi'avy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with two ounces of butter. Keep stirring over the fire until it is lightly browned, and steam a bruised dove of garlic in the browning. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of gravy, and when quite smooth and thick stir in the juice of half a lemon. Pour a little of the sauce into the dish with the tongue, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Time, two houi-s to simmer the tongue. Probable cost of tongue, from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hung Beef (see Beef, Dutch, .or Hung, and Beef, Hung). Hunter's, or Spiced Beef.—Take a round of beef weighing from fifteen to twenty pounds. Let it hang a day or two; then rub it weU with a powder made by pounding together one pound of salt, an ounce and a half of saltpetre, half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of black pepper, two ounces of moist sugar, and a tea-spoonful of herb- powder, if this be in the house; if not, it may be omitted. Take out the bone, and turn and rub the meat every day for a foitnight. At the end of that time wash it well with a soft sponge, put it into a stewpan, just cover it with water, bring it to a boil, and let it simmer gently for five hours. It may remain in the water in which it was cooked until it is nearly cold, if it is intended to be used at once ; but though this will improve the taste, it will prevent its keeping so long. The beef is better if kept uncut until cold. It wiU keep a fortnight or more in moderate weather. It is an excellent plan, instead of boiling the beef, to bake it. Put it into a pan with a sliced onion, a quart of water, and nearly three pounds of beef or mutton-suet cut small and placed- on the top of the beef. Cover with a coarse flour and water paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, take off the crust; pour off the gravy, which will be found e.xcel- lent for soups and sauces. Put the suet into an earthen jar, and melt it slowly in a moderate oven. Pour it ofl:' frequently as it melts. It maybe used for frying, &c. The meat will keep for six weeks in moderate weather. Time, six hours to bake. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Hunter's Beef (another way).—Take as lean a piece as can be procui-ed of the flank of beef. Tho thin end is the best. Take out the bones, and rub the meat well every day for a fortnight with a mixture made of one pound of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of pounded allspice, one ounce of pounded cloves, and one grated nut- meg. At the end of the time roll it as closelj- and firmly as possible, and bind it securely Avith skewers and tape. Just cover it with water, and boil or bake it for five or six hours. Do not loosen the tapes, &c., until the meat is quite cold. Probable cost, 7^d. per pound. Hunter's Beef (another way).—See Beef, Hunter's. Hunter's Bread and Meat Pud^ ding.—Take two pounds of dough made with 5^east, such as would be used for bread; or if this cannot be obtained, use a dough mixed with the white of eggs. Roll it out an inch thick. Cut two pounds of rump-steak into small pieces. Pepper and salt each piece, and season it with a very small quantity of pounded allspice. Place the meat in rows on the dough, takmg care that a fatty piece is in each row; then roll the dough round and fasten it securely at the ends, very much like a roly-poly pudding. It may then be either baked or boiled. This is a convenient form of prepaiing provision for those who have to make long expeditions, and do not wish to be burdened with much luggage. Any sort of meat may be substituted for the rump- steak, and endless varieties may be introduced ; but the meat should always be cut into mouthfuls, and the ends securely fastened to prevent the gravy escaping. Time to boil or bake, two hours. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, 28. lOd., if made with rump- steak. Hunter's Gingerbread {see Ginger- bread, Himter's). Hunter's Partridge Pie {see Partridge Pie, Hunter's). Hunter's Pie.—Take two pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, cut it into chops, trim these neatly, remove all superfluous fat, add pepper and salt, put them into a stew- pan. with a small quantity of water, and let them stew gently for half an hom: Boil and mash three or four pounds of good potatoes. Line a buttered pie-dish with them, put in the meat and gravy, and shape a crust over the top of the remainder of the potatoes. Bake in a good oven for half an hour. If the pie is not nicely browned, hold a red-hot fire- sliovel over it for a minute or two. Just before serving make an incision in the middle of the crust, and pour in a little boiling gravy. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hunter's Pudding.—A hunter's pud- ding and a pliun pudding are very similax. Mix haK a pound of finely-shi-ed beef-suet with a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs and a quarter of a pound of flour, add half a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of picked currants, half a pound of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of haH a lemon «• pjucfe oi Palt, half a. nuf.TOeja;, erated, and aa