CAL CAL Tery gently for three hours or more ; then take out the feet, put them on a hot dish, find pour some piirsloy and butter over them {see I'arsley and Butter). Calf's Foot Broth.—Wush carefully one calf's foot, and put it into a saucepan with thi'oe pints of water, the rind of a l(»uion, a luni]) of sugar, and a salt-spoonful of salt. If a knuckle- bone of a hiun can be put >vith it, it will bo an improvement. Let those simmer gently together until the liquid is reduced one half, skimming it very carefully from time to time. Then poiu- it out, and let it stand aside to get cold, so tliat the fat may be entirely removed. When tliis has been done, put it back into the saucepan, let it boil, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir the liquid again over the firo for a few minutes until it thickens; but on no accoimt allow it to boil. This is a very nom-ishing broth. If it is preferred, the calf's foot may bo boiled in milk and water. Time, three hours. Probable cost, one calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of broth. Calf S Foot Broth (another way).—Stew down a calf's foot in three pints of water till the liquid is reduced one haK, carefully re- moving all scum. Put it aside in a basin until quite cold, and take ofE the fat from the surface; then' warm up about half a pint of this jelly with a piece of butter the size of a pigeon's egg, and flavour it with sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to taste; beat well the yolk of an egg, and add it to the broth, stirring it all the time till it thickens, but do not let it boU or the broth will be curdled and spoiled. Probable cost, calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient to make a pint and a half of broth. Calfs Foot, Curried.—Prepare two feet as in the last recipe, remove the bones, and cut the meat into neatly-shaped pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan. Let it melt; slice into it two large onions and a sour apple. Stir these over the fire till soft, then rub them through a sieve. Mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry-paste and also a little ground rice. Add, gradually, sufficient of the liquid"in which the feet were boiled to moisten the whole with- out making it too thin, put in the meat, the onions, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer aU gently together for a few minutes ; then pile the curry in the centre of a hot dish with a border of rice round it. .Time to boil the feet, four hours; to simmer, quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. CalPs Foot, Fried.—A good dish may be made of two caK's feet which have been boiled for stock, and taken out while they are still firm. Remove the bones, and when the flesh is cold, cut it into small, nicely-shaped pieces, which must be placed for an hour in a pickle made with two table-spoonfuls of tarragon rinegar, one table-spoonful of oil, one bay-leaf, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Turn them two or three times. Take them out, drain them, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in boiling butter or oil till they are lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and serve them with fried parsley. Probable cost, 4d.,. without the calf's feet. Sufficient for four or fiv(! persons. Calf s Foot Fritters.—Prepare the calf's feet as in the lust recipe, but, before they are fried, lay each piece in a light batter made thus:—Pour a cupful of boiling water over a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and when it is melted, add to it lialf a pint of cold water. Stir this gi-adualJy into four table- spoonfuls of fine flour, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs and a little SJilt and pepper. A few minutes before it is wanted, add the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Half fill a stewpan with frying fat, let this boil till it is still, then fry the pieces of meat in it. Drain them from the fat, pile them on a hot dish, and serve them with pickled gherkins. Time to stand in the pickle, one hour; to fry, ten minutes. Tliis quantity will suffice for four persons. Probable cost, 8d., without the calf's feet. Calfs Foot Jelly.—In order to obtain calf's foot jeUy quite clear, care should be taken, first, to mix the ingredients when they are cold; and secondly, not to stir the jelly after it has once boiled and risen in the saucepan. Take a pint and a half of calf's foot stock {see Calf's Foot Stock), and be very particular that it is free from every particle of fat and sediment. Put it into a saucepan with the strained juice and thinly-peeled rind of two large lemons, three table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, a glass of white wine, the whites and shells of four eggs (the whites must be beaten, but not to a froth), and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Let these stand for a few minutes; then put them on a slow fire, and stir them a little until the liquid boils and rises in the pan; when this point is reached the jelly should not be touched again. Let it boil for twenty minutes; the scum may be gently removed as it rises. Draw the jelly to the side of the fire, and let it stand to settle twenty minutes longer. Wring out the j elly-bag in hot water, and pour the j elly through it. If it is not perfectly clear (which, however, it can scarcely fail to be, if attention has been paid to the directions given), strain it two or three times until it is. Do not keep it in a metal mould—it will be likely to discolour it. It should be kept in a cool place, and in summer will most likely require a little ice round it. If the stock be very strong, the isinglass may be dispensed with, but it is always safer to put a little with the jeUy. When aU the liquid has run through the bag, an agreeable and refreshing beverage mav be obtained by pourmg a little boiling water "through it. Sufficient for rather more than a quart. Probable cost, ■svithout the sherry, Is. per pint. Calfs Foot Jelly, Apple.—Put a pint of apple juice into a siiucepan with a pint of clear calf's foot stock {sec Calf's Foot Stock), the rind and juice of a lemon, a table-spoonful of sugar, a small glass of brandy, and the whites and pounded shells of three eggs. Mix these well together, and let them boil gently for fifteen minutes. Take the jelly from the fire, let it stand to settle, and strain it through a jelly-bag imtil quite clear ; then pour it into a mould. If the stock is not \oxy stiff, add a littlo