Hoa HEB ( 816 ) soak in salad-oil for fivo or six hours. Drain thcni, put thoiu into a dish, poiu- fresh oil ovor thuui, and sorvo. Probablo cost, IJd. oach. Sufficient, one or two for each poraon. Herrings, Soft Koes of, Baked — Takt! tho soft roos out of six or eight mswly- boilod fresh herrings, sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt, grated bread-crumbs, and finely-minced parsley. Put them into a dish, place little lumps of butter hero and there ovor them, and bake in a hot oven. Squeeze tho juice of a lemon over them before serving, and send to table as hot as possible. A little parsley and butter may be sent to table with them. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probablo cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hessian Soup.—Take half an ox's head, clean and rub it well with salt, and let it soak in lukewarm water for four or five hours. Put it into a large stewpan with six quarts of water, and let it simmer until tender, then take it out; when the broth is cool, remove tho fat, return the broth to the saucepan, and put with it a pint of soaked split peas, six carrots, six onions, three turnips, a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace. Simmer again without the ox's head until the vegetables are tender. Press them through a colander and afterwards through a sieve. Put the pulp into the soup, add salt and Jamaica pepper to taste, and a lump of sugar. Let it boil up once more and serve. It should be as thick as ordinary pea-soup. Time, fonr hours. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for twelve or fourteen persons. Hessian Soup and Ragoiit.—Prepare the soup as in the last recipe. Cut the nicest parts of the ox head into small neat pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a pint of the soup. Add three dessert-spoonfuls of ketchup, a mus- tard-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of port or claret. Let all boU together for three or four minutes, and serve as hot as possible, with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, half an hour, exclusive of the time required for making the soup. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hessian Stew.—Take the root of an ox- tongue, cleanse it thoroughly, rub it well with salt, and pour over it as much boiling water as will cover it. When cool, drain and cut it into thick slices. Dredge a little flour over these, and fry them, until lightly browned, m a . little hot fat, and fry with them four sliced onions. Pour half a pint of beer over the meat, and, when it boils, put all into a stewpan. Add three quarts of water, six carrots, three turnips, three onions, and a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin. Simmer gently for four hours. Strain the soup, the greater part of which should be served in the tureen with the vegetables, pulped and boiled up once more, and the addition of pepper, salt, and seasoning. Tho meat should be warmed in a pint of the gravy, according to the directions given for Hessian Ragout {see Hessian Soup and Ilfigout). Probablo, coat, 38. Sufficient for aix or eight persons, Hide-and-seek Pudding (to be eaten cold). - Make a rich ictttor with two table- Hpoonfula of ci-oam, mixed with throe well- beaten eggs, and a table-apoonful of sugar. Melt a little butt(;r in a small oinolet-pan, pour in the mixtuio, and fry it like an ordinary pan- cake, but it must be foui- times the thicknesB. Turn it on a dish, and, when cold, cover it with rich jam, and garnish with (andied fruit cut into slices, and a few dark green hiaves. Time, a few minutes to fry the omelet. Sufficient for one person. Probal)le cost, 7d. Hillsboro' Pudding.—Shred six ounces of suet very finely. Mix with it three ounces of flour, three ounces of finel)-- grated bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon cut into long narrow strips, and one ounce of candied lemon, also sliced. Melt six ounces of good treacle until it will run. Stir this into the pudding, and add the juice of the lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pint of new nulk. Fill a buttered basin with the mixture, tie the mould in a floured cloth, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Let it boil con- tinuously for four hours. Turn it out of the mould before serving, and send brandied sauce to table with it. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Hilton Pudding [sec Herodotus Pudding). Hip Sauce, for Puddings, &c. (a German recipe).—Take the seeds from half a . pint of ripe hips. Boil them in a little water, untn they are sufficiently tender to press through a coarse sieve. Mix a wine-glassful of light wine and a table-spoonful of moist sugar with the pulp, boil up once more, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, for hips are seldom to be bought. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Hog's Cheeks, To Cure.—Take out the snout, split open the head, and remove the brains. Cleanse and trim the head, and strew salt over it. Let it lie for two days, then put it into a brine made by boiling one pint of bay salt and one quart of common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of sugar, in three quarts of water until dissolved. Cover the cheeks with the brine, and let them lie in the pickle for a fortnight, turning them every other day. Drain, and let them hang in smoke for a week. Sufficient for one head. Probable cost, 3s. Hog's Ears, Hot.—Parboil two pairs of pigs' ears. Eaise the skin of the upper side, and fill them with a forcemeat made by mincing and mixing thoroughly a quarter of a pound of suet, six ounces of bread-crumbs, a pounded an- c)iovy, two tea-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, one table-spoonful of sage, and a little pepper and sjilt. Bind these ingredients together with the yolka of two eggs. When stuffed, skewer the ears to prevent the forcemeat escaping, and fry them in a Uttle hot butter until brightly browmed, then drain them and put them into a stewjian. with half a pint of good gravy, one table-spoonful of mixed mustard, one oimce of butter rolled in flour, one onion, and a little pepper and salt. Cover tho stewpan closely, and simmer gently