ORA ONI onions a fow minutes before lliey are taken off the tire. Time, thrco hours to stow tlio onions. I'robable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for thrco persona. Onions, Stuffed (another way).—Prepare three or four largo Spanish onions ns in the last recipe. Scoop out tho centres, making a hole fully an inch and a half across. Put in each one a mutton kidney, and place the onions side by side in a siuiccpan. Sprinkle a little salt and cayenne over them, and pour upon them half a pint of good brown gravy. Place tho pan over a gentle fire, and let it remain until tho onions aro quite tender. Servo as hot as possible. Time to simmer the onions, two and a half or three hours. Probable cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for three persons. Onions, Stuffed and Baked. — Peel two largo Spanish onions, partly boil them, and leave them on a sieve to drain until nearly cold. Then cut tho onions an inch and a half across the top, and scoop out the centre. Have ready a stuffing made with one ounce of finely-grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs minced very finely, one ounce of butter, three ounces of bread-crumbs, one salt-spoonjful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Mix all well together with a spoonful or two of milk. Fill up the onions with the forcemeat, brush them over with egg and bread- crumbs, and bake them imtil nicely browned. Serve on a hot dish, with brown gravy poured over them. Time, half an hour to boil the onions; three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Onions, White, for Garnishing Stewed Chicken or Veal. — Take a dozen freshly-gathered silver onions of a mode- rate size, cut a thin slice off each end, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an houi". Drain them well, dry them in a cloth, take off the outer skins; put them into a stewpan 'with a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of sugar, and as much water as will cover them. Let them simmer gently until they are tender, without being at all broken. Drain them, and, a few minutes before they are served, put them into the stew which they are intended to garnish. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost of onions, 3d. Sufficient for a dish of veal for three or four persons. Onions, with Beef-steak, &c.—Take two large Spanish onions. Remove a thin piece off each end, peel off the outer skins, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Place an ounce of butter or good dripping in a saucepan, let it melt, then put with it a pound of steak, divided into pieces a little thinner than for broiling. Brown these in the butter, add a little pepper and salt, the sliced onions, three ounces more of butter, but no liquid; cover the saucepan closely, and simmer as gently as possible till done. Arrange the steak neatly in the centre of a hot dish, boil up the onion gravy sauce with a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, pour it over the meat, and serve immediately. Chickens or rabbits are sometimes cooked in the same way. Time, about an hour and a half. I'robable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or thrco persons. Onions, with Grated Cheese (a Ger- man recipe).—Wash and peel tlu-eo or four lui-go sound onions, cut tliem into slices fully half an inch thick, and place them side by side in a single hiyer in a well-buttered baking-dish. Spi'iuklo a littlo pepper and salt over thorn, pLico them in a quick oven, and let them remain until tender ; strew each jtiece of onion thickly with grated cheese, and return tho dish again to tho oven for a few minutes imtil the cheeso has dissolved. Lift the slices carefuDy upon a liot dish, and serve inmiediately. A little mus- tard should bo eaten with them. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange.—Oranges come into season at the beginning of winter, but they can rarely be obtained sufficiently sweet to be agreeable before Christmas. The St. Michael and Malta oranges are the most commonly used. They appear early, and last aU the season. Tho Tangerine oranges are verj' small, but sweet, and delicious in flavour. The rind has a very peculiar taste. They come into the market later than the others, and are soon over. The Seville orange does not appear until the end of February, and is chiefly used for making mar- malade and wine. There are supposed to,be nearly a hundred varieties of oranges in Itaty. The orange as a dessert fruit is deservedly popular. The varieties most in favour for this purpose are the China, Portugal, and Slaltese. The orange is also employed in confectionery, not only when ripe, but when green and not larger than a pea. It assists in the formation of several liqueurs and conserves, either alone or com- bined with sugars, wiues, or spirits, and either the pulp, or skin, or both, are used for these purposes. In cooking it is employed to aroma- tise a number of dishes. Orange and Almond Ice {see Almond and Orange Ice). Orange and Batter Pudding.—ilix foui- table-spoonfuls of flour smoolUy and gradually with half a pint of cold milk; add two fresh eggs, thoroughly whisked, a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of oiled butter. Pour the batter into a buttered basin which it will quite fill, dredge a little flour over it, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boUing until it is done enough. If more water must be put in, let it be boil- ing. Let the pudding stand two or three minutes after it is taken out of the water before it is turned out of the mould. Place it on a hot dish, and before sending to table empty a half-pound jar of orange marmalade over it. The batter is better if made two or three hours before it is wanted. Time to boil, an lioui- and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Orange and Lemon Candied Rings for Garnishing.—When orange ^elly or punch is bcin^ made, and tho orange nnds are not used, it is good economy (if Iroublo is not a consideration) to candy the latter in rings,