OYS ( 493 ) OYS Oysters, DeviUed.—^Vllen the oysters are opeuod (choose largo ones), rotam them and their liquor in the deep shell. Insert cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and put the shells on a gridiron, with a bit of butter on the top of each oyster. If the fire be clear and bright, from three to four min\ites will do them. Send to table on a napkin, with bread and butter as an accompaniment. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. per dozen. Oysters. Eating of.—The following re- marks on tiiis important subject are by the Rev. J. G. Wood:—"As to such heresies as pepper and vinegar, let them bo banished from the table whilst oysters are upon it. These charming mollusks should always be taken un- mitigated, without losing the delicacy of their flavour, by a mixture with any condiment whatever, except their native juice. Alas! there are few whd know how to appreciate and make use of these natural advantages. Scarcely one man in a thousand knows how to open an oyster, and still less how to eat it. The ordi- nary system which is employed at the oyster- shops is radically false, for aU the juice is lost, and the oyster is left to become dry and insipid upon the flat shell, which efllectually answers as a drain to convey oflE the liquid, which is to the oyster what the 'milk' is to the cocoa- nut. Those who wish to eat oysters as they should be eaten, should act as follows:— Hold the mollusk firmly in a cloth, insert the point of the knife neatly just before the edge of the upper shell, give a quick decided pressure until the point is felt to glide along the polished inner surface of the under shell. Force it sharply to the hinge, give a smart wrench rather towards the right hand, and oS comes the shell. Then pass the knife quickly under the oyster, separate it from its attach- ment, let it fall into the lower shell, floating in its juice, lift it quickly to the hps, and eat it before the delicate aroma has been dissipated into the atmosphere. There is as much differ- ence between an oyster thus opened and eaten, as between champagne frothing and leaping out of the silver-necked bottle, and the same wine after it has been allowed to stand for six hours with the cork removed. There is another method of eating oysters, wherein no knife is required, and not the least skill in opening is needed, the only instrument being a jmir of tongs, and the only requisite being a bright fire. You pick out a glowing spot in the fire, where there are no flames, and no black pieces of coal to dart jets of smoke exactly in the place where they are not wanted. You then insert a row of oysters into the glowing coals, taking care to keep their mouths outward and within an easy grasp of the tongs, and their convexity downwards. Presently a spitting and hissing sound is heard, which gradually increases until the shells begin to open, and the juice is seen boiUng merrily within, the mollusk itself becoming whiter ^nd more opaque as the operation continues. There is no rule for ascertaining the precise point at which the cooking is completed, for every one has his own taste, and must learn by personal experience. A little practice soon makes perfect, and the expert operator will be able to keep up a continual supply as fast as he can manage to eat them. When they are thoroughly cooked they should be taken from the fire, a second batch inserted, and the stiU hissing and spluttering molluscs be eaten ' scorching ' hot. . . . No one who has not eaten oysters dressed in this primitive mode has the least idea of the piquant flavour of which they are capable. Stewed in their own juice, the action of fire only brings out the full flavour, and as the juice is consumed as well as the oyster there is no waste, and no dissipation of the indescribable but potent aroma." Oysters, Forcemeat of, for Boiled Fowls or Turkeys.—Grate four ounces of the crmnb of a stale loaf of bread very finely. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of poimded mace, a pinch of cayenne, two ounces of fresh butter, broken into small pieces (or if preferred, four ounces of finely-shred beef-suet, though the forcemeat wiU not then be so deli- cate), the grated rind of half a small lemon, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in a dozen plump oj'^sters, which have been Isearded and cut into small pieces, and bind the prepara- tion together with the yolk of an egg and a little of the oyster liquid. If forcemeat balls are reqmred, the mixture should be pounded in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste. Oyster-sauce should always be served with oyster-forcemeat. Time, half an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient to stufE a large fowl. Oysters, Forcemeat of (another way). —Open and beard two dozen fresh oysters, and carefully preserve the liquid. Mince them finely, pound them to a smooth paste, and mix with them five ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, an ounce of fresh butter, the rind of half a lemon chopped small, a table-spoonf vil of minced pai-sley, a pinch of cayenne, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. When well mixed, bind the mixture together with the vmbeaten yolk of an egg and a small quan- tity of the oyster liquid, added very graduaUj-. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3s. 3d. Sufficient to stuff a good-sized turkey. Oysters, Forcemeat of (another way). —See Forcemeat of Oysters. Oysters, Fowl with {see Fowl with Oysters, and also Oysters, Poulets and). Oysters, Fresh, To Distinguish,— The fresher oysters are the better. Their freshness may be known by the force with which the shell closes on the knife when they are opened. If the shell gapes at all, the oyster is stale. Oysters, Fricasseed.—Cut two ounces of lean ham into dice, and put them into a stew- pan with two ounces of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjTue, a sliced onion, an inch of thin lemon-rind, and two cloves. Place the cover on the pan, and let the contents stoam gently for ten minutes. Pour over them half a pint of stock or gi-avy thickened with a