JAM IVO ( 336 ) firo, or in tho oven, and lot it simmer slowly for four or fivo hours, until tho liquid is reduced more than half. Put it aside, and ■when quito cold and stiif, lift off tho joUiod part, being careful to leave tho sodimont untouched, and proceed as rocommendijd for calf 8-foot jelly (see Calf's Foot Jolly). Ivory jelly is excellent for consumptive patients, rime, four or five hours to simmer the ivory dust. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Tho above ingi-edionts are sufficient for a pint and a hall of jelly. Ivory Jelly (Invalid Cookery).—Infuse BIX ounces of ivory powder, and simmer thom in three pints of cold water until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Let it get cold to jelly, and remove the sediment. When warmed, add a little cinnamon or a few cloves, the juice and some of the rind of a lemon, and sugar enough to sweeten. Let the jelly dissolve slowly without reducing it further. Strain for use. Jack {see Bottle-jack and Screen). Jam, G-eneral Observations on.— In making jams or preserves, care must be taken first of all that the fruit is gathered on a dry day, and when the morning sun is on the garden. If gathered in damp or foggy weather the jam will certainly become mouldy, and consequently will not be worth the trouble and expense of boiling. The fruit should be free from dust, and any that is unsound should be cast aside. It should be boiled as soon as possible after it is gathered. The best quality of sugar, either white or brown, will be found the cheapest in the end. "White sugar should be shining and close in appearance. Brown sugar bright and gravelly. The inferior sugars throw up so much scum in boiling that they waste as much as they save. The quantity of sugar required depends upon the nature of the fruit, and particulars regarding this will be given with each recipe. As there is no economy in using inferior sugar, there is also no economy in using too little sugar. The only result of endeavouring to save in this way is FBESERVING-PAH. that the jam has to be boiled so much the b^ger, and thus the quantity as reduced; to SHV nothing of the expenditure of fuel. If, on the contraS, too much sugar is used, the flavour of tie W^'ill be lost. In making common jams, tho fruit should bo well boiled before tho sugar is added, and care should be taken that it is not so much thickened tlxat the sugar will not easily dissolve. The fruits which are most Huitiiblo to bo preserved whole in syrup are apricots, apples, cherries, greengages, peiiches, nectarines, plums, and pears. The recipe for each will be found in this work in its proper place. Sugar should never be reduced to powder before it is added to the fruit, or it will give the jam a turbid appearance. The scum should bo carefully removed as it rises. In order to prevent waste it may be strained through fine muslin, and the clear part which runs through returned to the preserving-pan. Wooden spoons should be used for stirring jam. Iron, tin, or pewter ones will spoil the colour. An enamelled saucepan is the best for making jam. If a brass preserving-pan is used, it should be scrupulously clean, bright, and dry. The pan should be raised a few inches above the fire. If placed flat on it the fruit will be in danger of burning. The flavour and colour will be best preserved if the fruit is boiled rapidly. It should be watched constantly and stirred frequently during the process of boiling. Home-made jam, when properly prepared and well preserved, is incomparably superior to that which is offered for sale, and ought not to cost more than half the price. Jams.—Recipes for preparing the following jams will be foimd under their respective head- ings:— Aj>ple Gooseberry, Red Apricot Greengage Apricot, Green Lemon and Rhubakb Barberry Magnum Bonum Blackberry IMixed Fruits Carrot ( Imitation Peach Apricot) Plum Cherry Raspberry Currant, Black Raspberry and Cuk- CuRRANT, Red and rant White Raspberry and Rhu- Damson barb Gooseberry, Green Rhubarb Gooseberry, White Rhubarb and Orange OR Yellow Stiiawberry Jam, Imitation.—Cut off the yeUow rind from a large fresh lemon, being careful not to take any of the white. Mince it as finely as possible, and put it with half a pint of the best treacle, the strained juice of tho lemon, and a well-beaten egg into a saucepan, and boil gently for a few minutes, stirring aU the time. A\Tien cold it is ready for use, and may be employed instead of jam for roly-poly puddings. If put into a jar, and the air excluded, it \\'ill remam good for some time. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for a pudding large enough for six or eight persons. Jam, Mixed, for Nursery Use.- Take equal weights of any fruit that is in season, such as gooseberries, red or black currants, raspberries, or cherries. Boil them gently for half an hour, tlicn weigh the fruit, and put half a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp and boil twenty minutes longer. When chemea