( 274 ) GRA GRA When lightly hrownod, add a cupful of good fltock, half a tca-spoouful of mixed mustard, a tiny pinch of cayouuo, m much powdered mace as will stand on the point of a knife, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boil for twenty mmutes. Add a wine-glassful of sherry, and servo in a tui-eon. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine, fciuiiicient for half a pint of gi"avy. Gravy for Goose or Duck—Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan, and fry in it, until lightly browned, two onions, sliced, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered sage. Add a cupful of good brown gravy, a grain of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of salt, if the gravy has not been already seasoned. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain, return the gravy to the saucepan, and add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a wine-glassful of port or claret. Make the gravy as hot as possible, with- out boiling, after the wine is added. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy for Grills and Broils.—Rub a table-spoonful of flour into an ounce of good butter. Mix with it half a pint of good strong stock, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the juice and rind of a quarter of a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, haK the quantity of the essence of anchovies, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, three grains of caj'^enne, a tea-spoonful of chopped capers, and a shallot, finely minced. Put these ingredients into a saucepan. Let them boil, then simmer gently for five or six minutes, strain, and serve. Probable cost, id. Sufficient for five or six persons. Gravy for Haddock, Baked.—Brown a sliced onion in a little butter, and add gradually a pint of good stock, or a tea-spoon- ful of Liebig's extract of meat dissolved in warm water. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, and let the mixture simmer with a bunch of parsley for twenty minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the gra-\y, and add pepper and salt to taste, a little browning, if neces- sary, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Gravy for Hare.—Thicken half a pint of stock with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of the liquid at first, and afterwards added to the rest. Let it boil for twenty minutes, then add a table- spoonful of soy, pepper and salt, if necessary, and half a tumbler of port or claret. Send a little of the gravy in the dish with the hare, and the rest in a tureen. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 2d. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Hare (another way).—When no stock 18 in the house, procure half a pound of gravy beef, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of water, two sprigs of parsley, one small sprig -of marjoram, and the same of thyme, a large onion, with one clove stuck into it, half a dozen peppercorns* and a piece of bread toasted on both sides. Simmer gently for one hour, then stiuin, tliickcn the gmvy with a dessei-t-spoon- ful of ilour, lot it Ijoil once more for half an liour, add a table-spoonful of soy, and half a tumblerful of port or claret, and serve as before. Probable cost, 8d., uxclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a jjint of gravy. Gravy for Hashes.-Take the bones and trumnings of tlio joint from which the hash is to be made, break the bones into small pieces, put all into a saucepan, and cover with some cold water. Put a qmirter of a drachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, or two or three of the outside sticks of celery, wliich should always be kept for flavouring puqwses, six peppercorns, four berries of allspice, two sprigs of parsley, one of marjoram, and one of thyme, with a pint and a half of water. Simmer gently for half an hour, then strain. Cut a small onion into slices, and fry it tiU lightly browned in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix in, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and add gradually the strained gravy. Boil all for twenty minutes, strain once more, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and any flavouring that may be preferred, such as ketchup, finely- minced pickles, capers, or a wine-glassful of ale or wine. When quite hot, the gravy ia ready for the meat, which should only be in the pan long enough to heat through, and should on no account whatever be allowed to boil. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Gravy for Hashes, Cheap.—Divide into small pieces the bones and trimmings of the meat to be hashed, and put them into a saucepan, with as much cold water as will cover them, and to every pint and a half of water add six berries of allspice, six pepper- corns, half a tea-spoonful of pounded celery- seed, tied in muslin, a small bundle of savoury herbs, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a slice of bread, toasted on both sides till it is brown and hard, but not burnt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Cut a good-sized onion into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let them remaia over the fire till brightly browned, moving them about to prevent them burning. Mix in very smoothly as much flour as will make a stiflE batter, and add gradually the gr&vj made from the bones and trimmings. Boil gently for a few minutes, to take off the raw taste of the flour, strain it through a coarse sieve, and it is ready for the hash, which, it is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to say, must not be boiled in it, but only weU heated. The gravy is improved by the addition of a table- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or Harvey's sauce, or finely-minced pickles. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the bones, &c. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of gravy. Instead of thickening in the way described above, two dessert-spoonfuls of flour; a tea- spoonful of ancho\'j' sauce, and about half a tea-spoonful of made mustard may be mixed smoothly with a little water stirred into the gravy, which should then bs stewed gently twenty minutes longer.