HAD HAD ( 288 ) flour and a pinch of salt over it, and put about two ounces of butter, broken into sniuU piocoa, here and there in the dish. Bake it in a moderate oven. Mince, very finely, two large gherkins, a table-spoonful of capers, and tlu-ec shall )t8; add half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and put thesa ingredients into a saucepan, with half a pint of good brown stiuce. Hinnner gently for live nunutes, then add a tea-spoon- ful of the essence of anchovy, and a table- spoonful of vinegar. Lift the haddock care- fully into a hot dish, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send the Siiuce to table in a tureen. Time, from half to throc-qnarters of an hour to bake a moderate-sized haddock, l^robable cost, 9d. and upwards. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked, Gravy for {see Gravy for Haddock, Baked). Haddock, Boiled. — Wash the fish thoroughly, scrape off the scales, empty it, wipe the inside, and fasten the tail in the mouth with a skewer. Put two ounces of salt into half a gallon of water, and, when it is dissolved, put in the fish. Bring the water quickly to a boil, remove the scum carefully, then simmer gently until the eyes of the fish start and the flesh leiives the bone easily. Take it up as soon as it is sufficiently cooked, or it will be hard and tasteless. Serve it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Time, according to the size—a good-sized haddock will be boiled sufficiently in about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost of haddock, from 9d. upwards. Haddock, Boiled, with Egg Sauce. —Shred two ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it four oimces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a shallot, finely minced; add a little pepper and salt, and a grate or two of nutmeg, and work all together with a raw egg. Fill the haddock with this stuffing, sew it up with strong thread, truss it in the shape of the letter S, and boil it in salt and water. When done, take it up, drain, and serve garnished with parsley. Boil two eggs for seven minutes. When cold, powder the yolks, and mix them with half a pint of good melted butter. Add the whites, cut up into small dice, boil up' once, and serve in a tureen. Time to boil a good-sized haddock, half an hour. Probable cost, variable, about 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a haddock weighing two pounds for three or four persons. Haddock, Broiled.—Draw and clean the fish, and wipe it perfectly dry. Dip it in oil or clarified butter, di-edge some flour over it, and broil it over a clear fire on a gridiron. Turn it two or three times, and when it is browned on both sides, serve it ou a naplnn, and send shrimp, or anchovy .sauce to table with it. Time, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 9d. and upwards. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hpddock, Broiled (arother way).—An easier way of broiling haddock is to partially cook it in a Dutch oven before a clear firo, and ' when the skin rises brush it over with egg, strew bread-crumbs, di-odge flour on it, and broil it as before. Wlicn browned it is done enough. Put a small luuip of butter on tlio fish once or twice dui-ing tlio operation. It is more easily kept whole when cooked in tliis way. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. and upwards. Suflicieut for two or three persons. Haddock, Cold.—Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, and when melted add a tea-spoonful of salt, hiilf a tea-spoonful of pepper, one or two grates of nutmeg, and thi-ec-quai-ters of a pint of new milk or cream. When these are quite hot, add the cold haddock, which has been lifted from the bones in neat pieces and freed from skin, and eight or a dozen oysters, chopjjod small. When on the point of boiMng turn the whole on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of bread. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the cold fish, 3s., if made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Haddock, Cold, Curry of.—Pick the meat carefully from the bones in neat pieces, and remove the skin. For a pound of meat put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; when melted put with it two finety-minced onions, turn them about till they are lightly browned, then pour over half a pint of good, nicely-flavoured stock. Put in any bones or trimmings of meat that you may have, and simmer gently for half an hour; then strain the gravy, and add a table-spoonful of flour and a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Boil again for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. Put in the fish, with a little salt and pepper, if required, and when quite hot serve on a hot dish, with a border of well-boiled rice round it. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Curried.—Clean and skin the fish, lift the fiesh from the bones, then divide it into pieces about three inches long and one inch wide. For a fish three pounds in weight put three quarters of a pint of good, nicely- flavoured stock into a saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder and a tea-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of the gravy. Mince two onions verj' finely, and put them'into the soup. Add a quarter of a pint of cream or new milk. Flour the pieces of fish, and fry them in hot lard or dripping till they arc brightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and put them into the gravy. Simmer gently for eight or ten minutes, skim the sauce, put the fish into the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Time, one hour. Probable cost of haddock. 9d. or upwards. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. i Haddock, Fillets of.—Divide the hesh from the bono by ruuning the edge of the knife along the side of the spine, and take oflt the skin. Dip the fillets in beaten egg, roll them in broad-crumbs, and then fiy them in hot lard or dripping. When brownod on both sides drain from the fat, and serve them on a hot