I 266 ) GOO goosoberriofl. Wash, drain, and boil thorn until soft and broken, in a pint and a half of water. Press thoin through a aiuvo, and to every pint of juice add a pound of loaf Bugar and tlio rind and juice of half a lemon. Lot these boil all together for liftoen or twenty minutes, and, when cold, mix with them half a pint of milk, in which an oimco of isingliiss or golatino has boon dissolved. Pour into a mould, and put it in a cool place until linn. This cream should be made the day before it is •wanted. Sufliciont for two quarts of cream. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., with best isinglass. Gooseberry Custard.—Boil a quart of gooseberries in half a pint of water. Add a piece of buttor the size of a walnut. Boil the gooseberries quickly, and, when soft, pulp them through a sieve. Add three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the yolks of four eggs. Stir over the fire until thick, but 'the berries must not boil. Serve in a glass dish, or in custard-glasses. Time, boil till soft—about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for seven or eight glasses. Gooseberry Dumpling.—Line a plain round basin or mould with a good suet crust {see Crust, Suet). Pick the tops and stalks from as many gooseberries as will fill it, strew some moist sugar over the top, and cover with, the paste. Pinch in the sides securely, to prevent the juice escaping, and tie in a floured cloth. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two or three hours, according to the size of the pudding. Probable cost, lOd. for a pudding large enough to fill a quart mould. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Gooseberry Pool.—Take the tops and stalks from a pound of green gooseberries, and boil them with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a cupful of water. When quite soft, press them through a coarse sieve, and mix with them, very gradually, a pint of milk; or cream, if a richer dish is required. Serve wlien cold. This old-fashioned dish is whole- some and inexpensive, and, when well made, very agreeable. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the fruit. Probable cost, Qd. for this quantity, if made with milk. Sufficient foy six or seven persons. Gooseberry Jam.—Take the tops and stalks from some light-coloured gooseberries, rather under-ripe, and allow one pound of loaf sugar, and the finely-grated rind and juice of half a lemon, to every pound of fruit. Put the berries into a saucepan, strew the sugar, &c., over them, add a little water, to prevent burn- ing, bring them to a boil, and skim carefully. When the jam has boiled about a quarter of an hour, put a little on a cold plate. If it jellies, even slightly, it may be taken from the fire, and poured into jars. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green.—Allow a pound of sugar and half a pint of water to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together for fifteen minutes. Skim carefully, put in the gooseberries, and let them simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the jam will set when a little is put on a plate. This will be in about forty-five minutes after it lias come to the boil. Pour into jars. Cover with brandiod or oiled paper, and place tissue paper, dipped in strong gum-water, or in white of egg, over the jars. On an average, a pound of jam may be obtained from a pound of fruit. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green (another way). —Cut the stalks and tops from three pounds of green goosebemes. Bruise them slightly, put them into a preser\'ing-pan, and let them boil for seven or eight minutes, stirring all the time, to prevent them sticking to the pan. Mix with them two pounds and a half of powdered loaf sugar, bring them quickly to the boil, then simmer them gently for three-quartei-s of an hour. A pound of jam may bo obtained from about a pound of fruit. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Green (another way). —Wash and drain the gooseberries, and put them into a preserving-pan, with a gill of water to every pound of gooseberries. Stir them until they are soft, then press them through a coarse sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon or a jelly-pot. Weigh the pulp, and allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar with as much water as will just moisten it, and boil it until it is thick. Add the gooseberry pulp, and simmer gently, stirring it now and again. When it sets, or stiffens when a little is put on a plate, put it at once into jars. Time, about forty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Red.—Take the tops and stalks from the gooseberries, and allow three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of fruit. It is a great improvement to add a pound of red currants to everj^ three pounds of gooseberries. Boil the fruit. Keep it well stirred, to prevent it burning, and as soon Sls, the berries begin to break, add the sugar. Let them boil for half an hour, or until the jam wiU set when a little is put on a plate. If it will not do this at the end of half an hour, it must boil longer. Pour it into jars, and cover closely, in the usual way. Sufficient, a pound of fruit, &c., for a pound of jam. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Gooseberry Jam, Red (another way).— Take equal weights of fruit and sugar. Pick the tops and stalks from the fruit, and make a slit with a needle in each gooseberry. Allow a small tea-cupful of water to each pound of sugar, and boil the water and sugar together for ten minutes. Put in the fruit, and boil gently, until the skins look clear. Drain off the ber- ries, and put them into jars, boil the syrup until it will set, pour it over the fruit, and, when cool, tic up in the usual way. Time, about forty minutes to boil the sjTup. Pro- bable cost,"7d. or 8d. per pound jar. Gooseberry Jam, Red (another way).— Allow a pint of red currant juice, prepared as for red currant jelly, and three pounds of loaf sugar to every four pounds of gooscbenncs. Put the sugar "and the juice into a preserving- pan, and boil for five minutes after the sugar is