(42) BAI the meat is drained from blood and slime before It 18 Biilted. The amount of salt used is not so important if this be well uttoudod to, as will ])o seen by the Wiltshire mode. Tlie quantity of salt for a whole i)ig is one pound and a half of bay salt, and one pound of common salt to six ounces of sjiltpetro, and one pound and a half of the coarsest brown sugar or treacle. Strew common salt over the bacon, and let it drain a day and night. Powder the bay salt and salt- petre, and mix them thoroughly with the other salt and sugai-. When well blended, rub each piece of bacon and lay them togotlier in a trough. Turn every alternate day for a month. Smoke nine days. Sufficient for the flitches of one pig of ten or twelve stones. Bain Marie Pan—The Bain Marie is a shallow vessel generally made of copper, which 18 used for keeping sauces, stews, &c., hot when they are already sufficiently cooked, and it is not convenient that they should be immediately served. It will be found most valuable in those families where regularity and punctuality in meals cannot be depended upon, as it affords BAIN MAUIE PAD the best means of keeping dishes hot without destroying their flavour or burning them. When it is to be used the Bain Marie should be fiUed with boiling water, and the pans containing the sauces or entrees should be put into it closely covered. It should then be put upon a hot plate or by the side of the fire, to keep up the lieat of the water without allowing it to boil, and should there remain until the dishes are ■wanted. The principle of the Bain Marie may be adopted for keeping sauces and gravies warm when a proper pan is not at hand. Instead of re- taining the compounds slowly simmering by the side of the fire in the pan in which it was made, by which means it would in all probability be either smoked, burnt, or rendered flavourless, put it into a basin or jar, cover it closely and place it in a pan of boiling water. If the water is allowed to boil the sauce or gravy will become too thick. Price of the Bain Marie : Block tin, "with copper pan, soup pot, and glaze pot stew- pans, £2 15b. Strong copper from £7 10s. to £10 5s. Bake, To.—Baking is a most convenient, economical, and satisfactory mode of cooking certain dishes to which it is suited, otherwise it is most unsatisfactory and unprofitable. For pastry, cakes, and various puddings' an oven is indispensable, and many meat dishes are as well cooked in it as l)efore the fire. Amongst these may be mentioned the following : a hare, a leg of pork, a breast or fillet of veal, a goose, a duck a sucking-pig, a shoulder of mutton and potatoes, and many kinds of fish. Gravjes, iAjo, soups, beef-tea, and stock for calf's foot jelly laay ])o a<lvantag(!Ously cooked in a slow oven, it put into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and allowed to remain long enough. There is, how- ever, no doubt that ordinary joints of meat, if baked in the oven, have a peculiar ta«t<^ which' i« not palatal)le, and wliich is doubtless caused by tlie fact that the fumes which arise in cook- ing are not carried off as they are when the meat is roasted. It has been said that meat loses less in weight and more in flavour Ijy baking than by any other mode. A little extra seasoning should therefore be added if a dish is to be cooked in this way. A baking-dish ought to be deep enough to cover the joint to the extent of an inch, and thus keep the juices from drying up. If the oven be very hot, cover the meat with a piece of w^hite paper well greased, and take it off in time to let the outside brown before serving. It is well to adopt this plan with large pies and cakes also, so that they may not be browned before they are sufficiently cooked, remembering only to let the pastrj' in pies set before the paper is put on. Pastry re- quires a tolerably quick oven to prevent ite becoming heavy. If too quick, however, the steam cannot escape. All large cakes should be baked in a moderate oven, or the outside will be hard before the middle is ready. In order to ascertain whether these are sufficiently cooked put a skewer or knitting-needle into the middle, and if when this is drawn out any moisture adheres to it the cake must be baked longer. All light cakes, such as sponge-cakes, cheese- cakes, &c., should be put into a brisk oven until they have risen. The heat may then go down a little. Never open the door of an oven in which anji;hing is being cooked in order to lessen the heat; rather decrease the fire. Baker's Rolls, American.—Well dry two poimds of flour. Add two spoonfuls of yeast, a little salt, and a piece of saleratus, about the size of a bean, dissolved in water. Mix all lightly together with a pint of milk and water; knead it well and set it on the hearth to rise, covering the bowl in which the dough is placed with a towel. Then make it up into about twelve rolls. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, quarter of a hour. Sufficient for twelve rolls. Probable cost, 6d. Bakewell Pudding.—Mix a pint of milk with the yolks and whites of four eggs beiiten separately. Add three ounces of finely-sifted sugar, three ounces of butter, which should be first melted, and one ounce of well-poundcd almonds. Lay three-quarters of a pint of bread- crumbs in a dish with a httle preserved fruit over, and fill up with the mixture. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bakewell Pudding (another way).— Line a dish with puff-paste, and lay the pre- serve as in the previous Bakewell pudding. Then mix equal weights (throe ounces) of pounded almonds, bread-crumbs, sugar, and melted butter, with the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg and lemon.