CHE CHE ( 122 ) pound of chorrios, garnished with louves, will make a Bmall ilisli. Cherries, Candied, with Leaves and Stalks.—Chooso Bound, ripo chorrios, wipo thorn with a Hoft cloth, and loave thu stalk anil two or throo loavoa on thoni. Boil BOinc good vinogiir, and dip oach littlo branch, but not the fruit, into it when boiling; then take it out and Btick it into a piece of cardboard with holes made in it, so that it shall diy equally. Boil a pound of sugar with half a pint of water, remove the scuin, and dip each branch in, and let it remain there for one minute, then dry it aa before. Boil the sugar and water to the point of candying, pour it over the cherries, &c., move them about to insure their being equally covered with the sugar, place them once more in tho card- board, and dry them in a cool oven. They will be found useful for garnishing sweet dishes, and for dessert. Time, about an hour. Pro- bable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries. Compote of.—Choose large, ripe, light-coloured cherries, wipe them, and leave on them about an inch of stalk, making all uniform. Put half a pound of sugar into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and let it boil for ten minutes, then put into it a pound and a half of the chenies, and sim- mer them for three minutes. Dish them with the stalks uppermost. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added to the syrup. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for a large dish. Cherries, Compote of (another way). —^Take ofE the stems from Kentish or Morella cherries. Make a syrup witn five ounces of sugar and half a pint of water for the former, but allow another ounce of sugar for the extra acidity of the Morellas. Stew one pound of the fruit in the syrup for twenty minutes ; they may be stoned or not. When tiie Morellas are very ripe, they may be stewed only ten minutes, and will then be excellent. Time: ten minutes to boil sugar; eight to ten minutes Morellas. Probabfe cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Morella cherries are generally rather more expensive. Cherries, Dried.—Stone the cherries carefuUy without spoiling the fruit. This may be done by pushing the stones through the end with a bodkin or silver skewer. Put them into a preserving-pan, and strew amongst them finely-sifted sugar, allowing eight ounces of s^^ax to every pound of fruit. Simmer for S^nutel, Kpour them into a bowl, and eave them 'until £ext day, l^^J^X' be aeain simmered for ten minutes; and tins p?ocfss must be repeated for three days. Dram weU, put them on a sieve or wire tray, so that they do not touch each other, and place this m an oven sufficiently cool to dry without bakmg them. They must be turned about every now and then that they may bo equally dried, it the oven is too hot, their colour ^viU be spoilt. When dried, keep them in tm I'o^^^ writing-paper between each layer, ^^entisn SJrrie^s arc best for this purpose. They wiU Wound useful for garnishing dishes, or for doBsert. Probable cost of tho cherrioB, 3d. to (id. ])L'r pound. Cherries, Dried, without Sugar.— The Keutisli cherries are tho best for this ])Ui'- poHO. Thoy should bo wiped carefully with a Boft dry cloth, to free them from duBt, &c., and the stalks cut into even lengths, then put into a cool oven or in tho sun until thoroughly diied If tho latter plan is adopted, the ditthes on wliich tlioy aro placed should be changed everj' day. Tho etalkB should be put upwards, and tho bruised or decayed fruit removed. When dry, thoy should bo tied in bunches, and kept in a dry place ; and many persouB consider them more refreshing and agreeable than when dried with sugar, the acidity of the fruit remaining to a greater degree. In the winter time they may be prepared for dessert in tlio same way aa Normandy pippins. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per poimd. Cherries, Frosted.—Choose large, ripe, sound cherries. Wipo them with a dry Boft cloth, and dip them in a Kquid made of the whites of two eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth and mixed with a quarter of a pint of spring water. As the cherries are taken out of the egg, drain them and roll them one by one in finely-sifted sugar. Put some clean writing paper on an inverted sieve, put them on this so that they do not touch one another, and let them dry till wanted. Time, six or eight hours to dry the fruit. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one poimd for a small dessert-dish. Cherries, Kentish, Compote of.— Put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of water, and boil it for ten minutes. Put in half a pound of Kentish cherries, with about an inch of the stalks left on; let them simmer gently for five minutes. Drain them, and put them into a compote dish with the stalks upwards.^ Boil the syrup five minutes longer; when it is cool, pour it over the cherries. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of cherries, from 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a small dish. Cherries, Morella, Brandied.—The fruit should be freshly gathered, and the largest and best selected. Let each cherry have about an inch of stem left on. Put them mto quart bottles with wide necks, and put four ounces of pounded candy-sugar (the brown is the best) into each bottle. Pour in sufficient best French brandy to fill the bottles, and add a few cherry or apricot kernels, or a smaU pori,ion of cinna- mon, if liked. Time, to infuse, one month. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. per bottle. Cherries, Morella, To Preserve.- Choose sound ripe Mcrelk chomes, and aUo. one pound and a quarter of «"?*^y' X over^ runful of red or white 'currant ]uice for every ToSnd o1 Serries. Pick -d «tone the ch™, or, if preferred, merely pnck ^^^'^J^.^^le. needle Put the sugar and P"/, serving-pan, and let it boil for ten ^^^^^f- Th^Sf iS the cherries, and «tnmer them gcnU^ imtn they look bright and c ear. TumtJ^c^* into jai^.' Cover with oUed P^P^^V^^J^^J paper dipped in strong gum. Tune to dou,