( 388 ) LOB LOB large fresh lettuces, or any other salad, taking gi-eat caro that they arc quite dry hot'mo Ixnng used. Cut or teai- those into nuat pioi.'es, and wrange a layer of them at the bottom of a large dish, place several pieces of lobster upon them, and repeat until the materials are finished. Just bef(jre serving pour over them a sauce made as follows : —Beat the yolkn of two raw eggs for two or three minutes, until they begin to feel thick, add, by drops at first, ten table-spoonfuls of best salad-oil, and four of tarragon vinegiir. The mixture should be as thick and smooth as cream. The secret of making a mayonnaise is to add the liquid gradually, and to beat well between every addition. Season the sauce with half a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Cover the salad with the hquid. At the last moment, sprinkle over it the lobster coral, which has been powdered and well sifted, and garnish the dish with sliced beetroot and hard-boiled eggs. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lobster. Is. 6d. and upwards. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lobster, Miroton of.—Soak the crumb of a penny roll until it is quite soft in as much cream as will just cover it. Pick aU the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, pound it with the spawn thoroughly in a mortar, and mix with it the soaked crumb, and the weU-beaten yolks of three fresh eggs. Season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Just hefore boiling the mixture, add a whole egg, which has been well whisked. Line a plain round mould with some thin slices of ham, fat and lean together, pour in the mixture, and boil until it is done enough. Send lobster sauce to table with it. Time to boil, an hour and twenty minutes. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. and upwards. SuJaSicient for six or seven persons. Lobster Patties.—Take a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, pick out the meat from the tail and claws, mince it finely, and put it into a stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of the spawn, pounded and sifted, an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonf\il of cream, a tea-spoonful of veal jelly, half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon- rind, and a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, and cayenne. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, which has been rolled out a quarter of an inch thick, put a crust of bread into each, to preserve its form, lay on the covers, ornament the edges with the back of a knife, brush them over with yolk of egg, and hake in a quick oven. When the patties are baked, take out the bread, partially fill them with the hot mixture, replace the covers, and serve immediately. Dish them on a neatly- folded napkin. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake the patties, five minutes to stew the mixture. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient for three dozen patties. Lobster Pie.—Pick the meat from two medium-sized, freshly-boiled lobsters, and^'^* it into small, neat pieces. Bruise the shells !tnd spawn in a mortar, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of water, three spoonfuls of vinegar, luilf a tea-spoonful of tialt and pepper, and a quarter of a t(;a-si>oouful of pounded mace. Simmer gently until the goodness is extracted, then strain the giavy, thicken it with an ounctj of butter rolled in Hour, and let it l)oil again. Line the edges of the pie-dish with go(j(l jiuff paste, put in the pieceg of lobster, strain the gravy over them, and strew some finely-grated bread-crumbs on them; lay the cover over ail, and bake in a moderate oven. When the paste is done, the pie is ready. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, alx>ut an hour and a quarter. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. and upwards. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Potted.—Pick out all the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster, and pound it and the coral in a mortar to a smooth paste. Mix with it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a grain of cayenne, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. A few shrimps may be added or not. When thoroughly pounded, press the mixture into jars, and pour cool clarified butter over. When the butter is set the lobster is ready to serve. The white meat of the claws should be pounded apart from the rest. Time, an hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lobster, Potted (another way).—Pick the meat from a medium-sized, freshly-boiled hen lobster. Tear the white part into flakes with two forks, and pound a table-spoonful of it with the soft parts and the spawn in a mortar. Use the same seasoning as in the last recipe. When ready, press the red and white meat into jars in layers, and cover with clarified butter. When prepared in this way the appearance of the lobster is better than when the last recipe is followed, but the meat will not keep so long. Time, about an hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost of lobster. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lobster, Potted (another way).—Tak ten medium-sized, freshly-boiled lobsters, half o which should be hens, and half cocks. Pick out the red, the spawn, and the soft meat, and divide the white meat into neat pieces. Butter an earthen jar rather thickly. Put in the pieces of lobster in layers. Sprinkle a little seasoning, and place a slice of butter over each layer. When the jar is fuU, tie three or four folds of paper over it, and place it in a moderate oven until it is quite hot. Take out the pieces of lobster, let the butter drain from them, and put them again into the jar with a little of the drained butter. Dissolve the rest of the butter wath a small quantity of white wax, and pour it over the pieces- of lobster when cold. Cover securelv with bladder, and keep in a cool dry place. The seasoning should be pounded in a mortar to a powder, and should consist of a quarter of an ounce ol mace, a nutmeg, three cloves, half an ounce ol white pepper, and an ounce of salt. If" pounds of fresh butter wiU be reqmrod tor this number of lobsters. Time, about halt an