MAI MAI ( 401 ) served with fish; but in that case only half tho quantitv of Hour should bo used, as the eggs ^lelp tothick-ou. For tho plainer way :—Take half a pint of milk, thicken it with one ounce of butter and a heaped tea-spoonful of flour well worked together, and flavour with lemon- juice, pepper, and salt. Adda table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. The parsley and lemon-juice should be added off the fire, Maitro d'Hotel Sauce may be simply made thus : beat till smooth over the fire one ounce of butter, and half an oimce of flour. Add a third of a pint of water, stir and boil, then add two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk. Take the pan off the fire, and add parsley, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Maize or Indian Corn.—This is the noblest of the cereal grasses. It was found native in America when that continent was discovered, and it now constitutes the bread- corn in North America, Mexico, and a great part of Africa. It is almost as extensively used for the support of man as rice, but there sure greiit differences of opinion as to its merits. It is said to contain very little gluten and sugar ready formed, and hence it is asserted that its nutritive power must be small. Certainly it cannot be fermented into good bread without the addition of wheat-flour; yet people who live-upon it are as healthy and strong as could be wished. The American and West Indian labourers think no bread so strengthening as that which is made of Indian corn-flour. When it is coarsely groimd and boiled, maize forms the hominy of the southern portion of the United States. The porridge made of Indian meal goes in North America under the name of mush {see Mush of Indian C!om). The entire grains are employed under the name of Milled corn or samp. 'WTien the unripe grains are slightly roasted, they burst and turn inside out, and look veiy pecu- liar ; in this state they are called pop-corn, and are much relished as food in America. The unripe cobs of Indian com are often pickled as weil as boiled for the table. The starch of maize is a good substitute for arrowroot, and is largely employed in this country under various names, Oswego corn-flour, &c. " Maize," says Mr. C. W. Johnson, " was brought very prominently into notice by Mr. Cob- bett, who grew with much success a dwarf variety on his farm of Bam Ebn, near London, and published an elaborate treatise on its culture, and the uses to which it could be applied. Notwithstanding his strenuous advo- cacy, its cultivation has never been much approved of, and in no part of the kingdom is it grown to any extent. This valuable plant . produces a much larger number of ears, which aV)f)nnd with a greater proportion of wholesome m«ily matter than any European grain; and, as Indian com prospers in low swampy situa- tions, where it tends to dry up the superfluous moisture, and to render the soil firm, it might perhaps be advantageously cultivated in the southern counties of Great Britain; but un- fortunately it requires a higher summer heat than we generally experience in these islands." Maize, Boiled.—It is a subject of regret that this vegetable, so highly esteemed in America, is not to be obtained in this country; at least, not in a fresh state. It can, however, be procured preserved in tins, and though in that state much of its freshness is lost, it will be much appreciated by those housekeepers who study vaiiety. Strip the stalks of the fibre and outside covering, boil from twenty to twenty- five minutes; drain, place a piece of toast at the bottom of the dish, and pour rich melted butter over the ears. Maize is in America simply boiled, and served with a piece of fresh butter. One ear of grain is sufficient for one person. Maize, Boiled (another way).—See Green Indian Corn or Maize, To Boil. Maize Indian {see Indian Maize). Maize, Mush of {see Mush of Indian Corn). Maize, Roasted.—The following is Wil- liam Cobbett's account of this process:— " Eoasted ears," he says, " are certainly the greatest delicacy that ever came in contact with the palate of man. In America, where thej' bum wood upon the hearth, they contrive to have a bright fire, wdth a parcel of live wood coals on the hearth ; they lay something of iron across the two hand-irons, which are used in the fireplace, sweep the ashes up clean, and then they take the ears of corn and set them up along in a row, facing the tire, and leaning gently against the bar which they have put across. When one side is brown, you turn the other side towards the fire ; or, rather, you turn then roimd gradually, until the whole be brown; and when the whole of the grains be brown, you lay them in a dish, and put them on the table. These are so many little bags of roasted milk, the sweetest that can be imagined; or, rather, are of the most delightful taste. You leave a little tail of the ear, two inches long, or thereabouts, to turn it and handle it by. You take a thin piece of butter upon a knife, which will cling to the knife on one side, while you gently rub it over the eai- from the other side. Thus the ear is buttered ; then you take a little salt, according to your fancy, and sprinkle it over the ear ; you then take the tail of the ear in one hand, and the point of the ear in the other hand, and bite the grains off the cob; I need hardly say that this must be done with the fore teeth, and that those who have none must be content to live without green eai's, for, as to taking the grains off with a knife, they are too deeply implanted to admit of that; and, if you attempt cutting, you will cut cob and aU. When you have finished one ear, you lay the cob aside, and go to another ... I defy all tho arts of French cookery, upon which so many volimies have been written, to produce any- thing so delightful to the palate as this." Maize Suppawn.~"This," saysCobbett, " is neither more nor less than porridge ; that is to say, boiling milk, broth, or water, thickened with com-flour, in the same way that people in the South of England thicken them with wheat- flour, and tho people in the North of England thicken them with oatmeal. Put into water, this is a breakfast, or supper, or dinner for little children; put into milk or broth, it is the same for grown people ; with milk or broth, it