MUS MUS ( 436 ) and with each qiiart put half an ounce of all- Bpice, thi-ee-quai-ters of an ounce of black pepper, and three-quarters of an ounce of Jamaica pepper. Cover the jar closely, set it in a pan of boiling water, and let it boil gently for fully two hours. Take it out, let it stand until cool, then pour off the juice into a clean pan, as clear as possible, and boil the liquid for half an hour. Skim it thoroughly, and put it into a jar. When quite cold, poui-it thi-ough a jeUy-bag imtil it is bright and clear. It must be poured gently, so as not to disturb the sediment. Put a tea-spoonful of brandy with each half-pint of liquor, and pour it into small bottles. Cork these securely, and either tie a piece of bladder over them or resin the corks, and keep the ket- chup in a cool, diy place. When pouring the juice fi-om the mushi-ooms do not squeeze them, or the liquid will look thick and muddy The refuse need not be wasted, for after a common ketchup has been made from it, it can be dried and used for mushroom powder {see Mushrooms, Powdered). Probable cost of mushrooms, vari- able. Sufficient, a table-spoonful of ketchup to haK a pint of sauce. Mushroom Ketch.up (another way).— Gather large tiap mushrooms for this purpose in the month of September. If the weather be showery, wait until the mushrooms have had a few hours of sunshine, for no water should enter into the composition of ketchup. Break into an earthenware jjan as many mushrooms as it will hold. Let them be clean, and quite free from grit or dirt, and that portion of the stem should be removed to which the soil adheres. Sprinkle salt among them, and put a layer over the top (from six to eight ounces will be enough for a peck of mushrooms). Cover them for two days, occa- sionally stirring them during the time, then strain thi'ough a sieve without giving the mush- rooms any pressure. To each quart of the juice so gained, allow three blades of mace, half an ounce of black peppercorns, the same of sliced ginger, with half the quantity of allspice, a few cloves, and more salt if required. Boil the juice for fifteen minutes, uncovered, and before putting in the spice; add the spice, and boil twenty minutes more. FiU bottles when quite cold. Wax the corks to exclude the air. Mushroom Ketchup, Common. — Mince a shallot very finely. Put it into three- quarters of a pint of mushroom ketchup, and simmer gently for five or six minutes; then add one table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle. Boil for ten minutes, and when cold pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork securely, and store in a cool, dry place. Sufficient to make one pint of ketchup. Mushroom Ketchup, Common (another way).—After the clear juice has been poured from the mushrooms, put the remainder into a saucepan, and warm them on the tire. Afterwards press the mushrooms through a tamis until every particle of juice has been extracted. Strain the liquid, boil it for five minutes, then with each pint put a cupful of strong beer, half a blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, three cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Simmer gently for about fifteen minutes, and when cold bottle for use, with the spices equally divided. Suf- ficient, a table-spoonful will fully flavour half a pint of thickened sauce or gravy. Mushrooms, Oyster Patties with (see Oysters, Patties of, with Mushrooms). Mushrooms, Pickled. — Take button mushrooms, as nearly as possible of the same size (small ones are best) and freshly gathered. Cut off the stalks, and rub away the outer skin with a piece of new flannel and some fine salt. Einse them in salted spring water, drain quickly, and dry in a soft cloth until no moisture hangs about them. Boil together spice and vinegar in proportion to the mush- rooms to be pickled, allowing nearly a quart of vinegar to a quart of the buttons, and with one quart of the best white wine vinegar put three small blades of mace, an ounce of crushed ginger, half the quantity of white peppercorns, and a small pinch of cayenne. When the pickle boils put in the mushrooms, and continue the boiling until they are rather soft, which will be in from eight to ten minutes, according to their size. Fill jars, or large-mouthed bottles, and distribute the spice as equally as possible in them. "When cold, tie dovni se- curely with bladder, and remove to a diy place. Field mushrooms arp much to be preferred to those artificially raised. Mushrooms Pickled in Brine.—Pre- pare button mushrooms precisely as dh-ected in the preceding recipe, but make a brine as fol- lows :—Boil together two quarts of water, eight ounces of salt, three small blades of mace, an ounce or more of bruised ginger, and the same of whole white pepper. Skim while boiling, add the prepared mushroom buttons, and boil slowly for a few minutes. Fill well-dried bottles while the mushrooms are still hot, and when quite cold cork the bottles, and tie down with skin. A small quantity of salad-oil poured on the top of each bottle will effectually preserve the contents. Mushrooms, Pickled, Sauce of.—To half a pint of brown gravy aad a table-spoonful of good mushroom ketchup, some pickled mush- rooms, and a little of their liquor. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and stir in an ounce and a half of butter, blended with a tea-spoonful of flour. It should not boil, but when thick, like smooth cream, serve over roast or broiled fowls. Time, about ten minutes. Mushrooms, Powdered.—Get large mushrooms, but remove the brown end and the outside skin, and see that they are quite free from grit and dirt. Put them into a stewpan with a couple of onions, each stuck with six cloves, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and salt. Place them by the side of the fire to heat gradually, and draw their juice, then shake the pan over a clear fire until the moisture has dried up; this must be done briskly, or the mushrooms will get burnt and useless. Dry them in a cool ovcu; they will require to be put in several times, until they can be reduced