oassell's cookery. liv that the cook is dirty; and when this is the case, it in difficult to really fancy any of the dishes that have necessarily passed through her hands. Before leaving the subject of vegetables, one word in regard to the somewhat modern invention of preserved vegetables in tins. Take, for instance, peas. Of course, like everytliing else, peas are best when fresh gathered and in season ; but it is really wonderful to what perfection the art of preserving vegetables has been brought. However, just as in the case of tinned soups we gave a few simple directions how the contents of the tin may be improved when opened, so, too, with vegetables much may be done to what we may call " increase the illusion." For instance, take the case of a tin of peas. Of course they are already cooked, and only want warming up. Now these tinned peas will be found, as a rule, to be not quite so sweet as fresh-gathered young ones; consequently, whenever you use a tin of peas as a vegetable, or to be piled up in the centre of an entr6e, such as chicken cutlets, act as follows:—First obtain, if possible, a few leaves of fresh mint, and boil these leaves in a little water till tender; then turn out the tin into a small ste\vpan, liquor and all, and put it on the fire to warm gently. Suppose the tin is a pint of peas, add about half a salt-spoonful of salt, and one third of a salt-spoonful of powdered sugar. The sugar will of course cause the peas to taste sweeter, and consequently more like the real fresh ones. Add the mint- leaves, which, in addition to really improving the flavour of peas, undoubtedly help the imagination to regard the peas as fresh-gathered ones. Really, if the tin is a good one, it requires a very good judge to distinguish between fresh peas and preserved ones. The same method must be pursued with French beans— the latter, however, are improved by having a little chopped boiled parsley added instead of mint, and a piece of butter mixed with them when they are sti'ained ofi". In heating all pi-eserved vegetables do not allow them to remain on the tii-e longer than is necessary to simply make them hot through. ENTREES. Though entrees are as a rule served before joints, we have gone briefly through the general piinciples to be observed in cooking joints before those to be con- sidered in reference to entries. It should be remembered, however, that cooks must learn simple things before they attempt difficult. Too often it will be found that cooks have what may be termed a few specialities, i.e., they have a few savoury dishes for which they are famed, but at the same time fail to invariably send up the joint and vegetables correctly. That cook is the most valuable who is the most regular. Amateur cooks almost invariably fall into the fault of wishing to begin at the higher branches of the science—for such it deserves to be called— of cooking. Young ladies in households often like to what they call " assist " on certain occasions; but if the truth were known, probably hinder rather than help the cook, who frequently has to leave ofi* her own duties to wait upon the amateurs, who generally choose jellies or a trifle as the dish with^ which they commence their experimental cooking. Cooking, as we have said, is a science; and persons who think they can begin at the wrong end will find, practically, that they will fail signally. To give any general principles. with regard to such an enormous variety of dishes as is comprehended in the word entree is somewhat difficult. Some few general explanations, however, can be given of certain classes of entries. As one very common specimen we would mention kromeskies, taking them as a specmaen