PRINCIPLES—STOCK. 3tXVU a soi-t of gum, ^.hich wUl gradually turn a beautiful reddxsh-Wn; the great difficulty being for the cook to know when to slacken the heat of the fii-e If the stewpan be allowed to remain on the fire too long, the glaze, for such is the stock when boiled down to a gummy consistency called, wHl become burnt and the flavour of the stock very much destroyed. On the other hand, if the cook does not allow the stewpan to remain on the fire long enough, the proper colour wHl not be obtained, and the result wHl be that in order to attain that colour recourse wiU be had to colouring of some kind or another, which should always be avoided if possible. . The cook consequently must carefully watch, and as soon as the glaze begins to turn colour must slacken the heat, and aUow the glaze to gradually deepen in colour tm it has that reddish-brown appearance we have described; then fill up the stewpan with some common stock, and add to it a couple of onions in which a few cloves have been stuck, a carrot, a small piece of mace, some parsley, gi-een onions, a bay-leaf, and a little thyme. Let all this simmer gently, taking care to skim it from time to time after gently boiling for about two hours, strain the whole through a sieve, and put it by for use, removing every particle of fat when the stock has got cold. The white sauce being treated and added to in exactly a similar manner, with the one exception that the glaze is not allowed to turn colour. Thus, the sauces should be quite clear, though it will often happen that perfect clearness has not been attained; the clearing process we will consequently describe by-and-by. Sauces are, however, seldom required bright and liquid ; the broviai roux and white roux must consequently be added respectively to the brown sauce and white sauce to render them the requisite thickness. Having added the roux to each in sufficient quantity to obtain the desired consistency, recollect to allow them to boil a sufficient time for the butter contained in the roux to be thrown up, and removed by skimming. Both sauces can then be sent through a tamis or cloth, and put by for use, this last process rendering them smooth and more velvety in appearance. We may add before going further that one very good method of ascertaining when the glaze is ready for filling up is to stick a knife in it, and give it a twirl; should the glaze adhere to the knife, and be in that state that it can be rolled up into a ball in the hands without sticking to the fingers, and at the same time be of the desired colour, it shows that it is sufficiently advanced for the stock to be added. Now, in the preparation of all large dinners where a great variety of dishes have to be prepared, it would be impossible even to commence until a considerable quantity of brown sauce and white sauce are ready made and put by for use. In French works on cookery this brown sauce we have described is called sauce e»pagnole, and the white sauce veloute. Cooks will readily see that in cases where, perhaps, twelve or more different kinds of entries have to be made, what ai. enormous saving of time it is to have two such rich sauces ready at hand. Indeed, in all works on cookery it will often be found that directions are given as follows:—Add a ladleful of brown sauce. It is evident that it would be impossible for the cook to com- mence to make, and go through the process of making, brown sauce for the sake of one ladleful. We have described how to make ordinary stock, and brown and white gravy, both thick and thin, from raw meat, but it should be borne in mind that in all large establishments, as well as in small private houses, there is much left of cooked meat, bones, carcfuses of fowls and game, and which materially help to fill up the stock- pot. The bones of large joints, such as sirloin of beef, or haunch of mutton, ought