LIV LOA ( S84 ) Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Liver Klosse (anollior way).—Take a largo slice of t\w cninib of a stale loaf. I'our half a pint of milk over it, and lot it soak for half an hour. Press the licjuid fioni it, and mix with it half a pound of linely-minccd raw liver, the grated rind of half a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of cliopped parsley, one of chives, and a little pepper and salt. Urcdgo a table-spoonful of flour over these ingredients, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. Make the mixture up into ogg-sliapod klcisse, drop them into boiling water or broth, and boil them until done enough. Before serving, fry two ounces of chopped bacon in a little butter, and pom- this over the klosse. If any remain, they may be sliced, dipped into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in hot fat. Time to boil, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Liver Klosse, for Soup (a German recipe).—Take half a calf's liver, and mince it small. Mix with it four ounces of finely- shred suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, the well- beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and ss much crumb of bread soaked in milk and pressed dry as will bind it together. Form into egg-shaped balls, cook these in boiling water, and serve in soup. Half a tea- spoonful of any herb powder that is hked may be added with the parsley. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six cr seven persons. Liver Puddings.—Take half an ox liver; clear it from skin, boil, and grate it. IMix with it its bulk in bread-crumbs, and finely-shred suet. Season rather highly with black pepper; add a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a glassful of rum. Have the pudding skins well cleaned, tie one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them with the mixture, and tie them in three or four places at equal distances. Put them into water which is nearly on the point of boiling. In five minutes prick them with a large darning needle to prevent them bursting, and let them boil for half an hour. Liver sausages should be kept in a cool place until wanted for use. Before serving, boil for a quarter of an hour, and then broil them. Probable cost, exclusive of the rum, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Liver Sauce for Fish.—Stew the liver in some of tlie gravy in which the fish was boiled until quite tender. ]\Iince it finely, and Dound it in a mortar with half a tea-spoonful of diy mustard. Tliicken half a pint of gravy ■with a small piece of butter rolled in flour; add the liver, some salt, and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. Let all boil up once, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the li^'er. Suffi- cient for four or six persons. Probable cost, 3d. Liver Sauce for Roast Hare.—Be euro that the liver is quite sweet. Wash it in two or three waters, and stew it in a-^piarter of a pint of good beef gravy, then ininCi; it finely, and with it a clove of shallot, two table-spoonfuls of picked parsley, and a quarter of a toa73poonful of thymo. lioturn the liver to tlx(; saucepan; lot all boil up together. Th(;n add a tea- spoonful of chilli vijiegar, two table-spoonfuls of cui-rant jelly, and two of poit. TJiis sauce may be us(;d for roast rabbit, if a glassful of sherry bo substituted for the port and jelly. Serve immediately. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the liver. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Liver Sausages. — Take an uncooked pig's liver. Mince finely, bruise it, and afterwards rul) it through a colander. Mix. with it half its weight in boile'd pork, finely minced, and add Imlf a pound of fat bacon chopped small. Season i-ather higliiy with salt, pepper, and powdered cloves. Tiiree-parts fill some thick skins with tlie mixture; put them into boiling salt and water, and let them simmer very gently. A little i)ounded onion or powdered sage may be added, if the flavour is liked. The sausages may be eaten either cold Avith bread and butter or hot. If eaten hot they do not require boiling before thej- are fried. Time, half an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Liver Sausages [see Mecklenburg Liver Sausages). Liver Sausages, Mecklenburg, Smoked.—Take one pound of^Jhe cuttings of pork, and one pound of sward, or the skin of the pig cut from the loins. The tongue and kidneys, and a little fat may be added, S liked. Cut the meat into slices, and boil all gently in as httle water as possible until quite tender. The sward should be jDut upon the fire before the rest of the meat, as it will require much longer boihng. Mince all very finely, and mix in the raw Hver, which has been chopped and bruised and pressed through a coai-se sieve. Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and half a dozen powdered cloves. Pour over the mince the fat which has risen to the top of the hquid in which the meat was boiled, and add, if approved, either a bruised shallot or a tea- spoonful of powdered or grated lemon-rind. "When filling the skins, remember to leave room for swelling, and simmer the sausages gentlj' in the same liquid in which the meat was boiled. The hver sausages may be used fresh or smoked as preferred. If smoked, two diiys win be long enough for them to hang. Time to boil large skins, one hour: small skins, Imlf an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loach..—The loach is a small fish, usually about three inches long, with a round body with six wattles or barbs at its mouth. In Scotland it is known as the boardie. It is not very common, but is met with occasionally in small brooks and rivulets. Tlic_ use it is chiefly put to is to serve as bait for eels and perch, Init it is worthy of being brought under the cook's notice, it is delicious fried in batter, or with eggs and crumbs of bread. Loaf Cake.—3Iix one ]wund and a half of flour with three-quart(TS of a ])ound of moist sugar; add an ounce of caraway seeds, and eight wcll-beatcn eggs. Mix thoroughly one