( 330 ) IBI IRI minutos. Add four ounces of blanched almondjs, sliced, the same of candied peel, one pound or more of well-washed and di-ied currants, a glass of brandy, and, lastly, stir in gently tlio wliites of the eggs whisked to a i'mn froth. Bake in a hot oven and in a round buttered tin. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 38. lOd. Sufhciont for two cakes. Irish Griddle Cake.—To every three ounds of Hour allow a tcsa-spoonful of car- onate of soda and a little salt. Mix the carbonate of soda with some sweet buttermilk —about three brcakfast-cupfuls. Make it into a stiff paste. Roll it until smooth, and turn it upon the griddle often to prevent burning. Time, according to size. Irish Luncheon Cakes. — Mix two pounds of di-ied Hour with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a tea-spoonful of salt. Rub into the flour a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and add half a pound of clean currants, an ounce of candied peel, and a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Mix these ingredients with the whites of four eggs •whisked to a stiff froth, and as much buttermilk as will make the dough of a moderate firmness. Half fill buttered tins, and bake in a tolerably quick oven to a light bro-svn. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two cakes. Irish Moss.—One ounce of selected Irish moss should be well washed, and then soaked in a quarter of a pint of cold water for three or four hours. Add a pint of cold milk or milk and water, boil for a few minutes, strain through fine muslin, and set aside to cool. Irish Moss may be flavoured with cinnamon, sugar, and lemon, or vaniUa. It wiU set a firm jelly. It is not much used, gelatine being so cheap, and less troublesome. Irish Pancakes.—Beat eight eggs, sepa- rating the yolks from the whites. Warm a pint of cream in a rather large stewpan, over a slow fire; strain, and stir the beaten yolks to the cream and three ounces of butter, previously melted; add two ounces of poimded sugar, and dredge in six ounces of flour. When mixed quite smooth, stir into the batter grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, with the frothed whites of four eggs. Fry in butter. Pour only enough batter in the pan to make a thin pancake, and, when done, serve the pancakes hot, piled one on another, in a hot dish. Time, about five minutes to fry. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Irish Pancakes (another way).—Mix a pint of cream with half a dozen fresh eggs, beaten and strained. Add a glass of sherry, two or three oimccs of butter, melted, some pounded cinnamon, andnutmeg, grated, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, and flour sufficient to make an ordinary batter. Rub butter over a clean pan, and, when the batter is quite smooth, drop in the quantity to make a thin pancake. Powder the pancakes well with sugar, and serve them piled one on the other, or fold them with a layer of apricot marma- lade between. A cut lemon is the usual ac- companiment. Time, about five minutes. Irish Puffs.—Make a light batter with a tabie-Hpoonl'ul of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and five Wbll-beaten yolks of eggs. Add nearly an ounce of melted butter, and stir into tlie batter half a pint of cream and tlxe frothed wliites of the eggs. Beat the batter before adding the cream, &c., for nearly fifteen minutes. Bake in butteri^d cups. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six cups. Irish Rock.—A sweet for dessert, com- posed of almonds, sugar, and butter pounded together, and moulded into an egg-like sliape. It has a very pretty appearance when arranged to contrast with green sweetmeats and bright- coloured preserved fruits. Wash the salt from half a pound of butter, and beat into it a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered sugar; miSH EOCK. blanch a pound of sweet almonds and an ounce of bitter. Pound these in a mortar, reserving enough of the sweet almonds to spike for ornamenting the dish when sent to table; add the butter and sugar, with about a quarter of a glass of brandy, and pound until smooth and white, when, after having become firm, it may be shaped with a couple of spoons. It should be placed high on a glass dish with a decoration of green sweetmeats, the spiked almonds, and a sprig of myrtle. Gramish with any green fruits or sweetmeats. Irish Rolls.—Put a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda to two pounds of flour, sweetened with about two tea-spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar. Beat the whites of a couple of eggs to a froth, and make a dough with them, adding as much good sour buttermilk as will make an ordinary paste. Shape into cakes or rolls at once, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size. Sour milk may be used, but butter- milk wiU make the roUs richer. Probable cost, Id. each. Irish Salmon Pickle.—Trim any part of salmon left from dinner, or boil a nice hand- some piece. Lay it in a deep dish, and, when cold, pour over it the following pickle, also cold. If closelj' covered and well basted with the pickle tlie salmon will keep many days:— BoU together in half a pint of vinegar, a gill