f 14 ) APP APP bako them utitil thoy are firm, which will take about a quarter of an hour. Thoy should bo kept in a tin box. Probable coat, la. Apple Cake Pudding;.—Take throe pounds of linoiy-llavourod baking apples, and boil them to a pulp with the; rind of two lemons, a cupful of water, and cv^ht ounces of sugar. Beat them well, and mix with them gradually, six good-sized potatoes, boUcd and crushed quite small. Then add three or four well- whisked eggs, pour into a buttered mould, and boil quickly. Servo with sweot sauce. Time to boil, ono hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Apple Cairs-foot Jelly.—Take four pounds of good cooking apples, core them, and stew them gently, with the thin rind of two lemons, in a quart of water, until they are reduced to a pulp. Then strain the liquid through a jelly-bag once or twice, until it is quite clear. "WHien cool, place it in a saucepan with three pints of strong calf's-foot stock, the juice of the lemons, sugar to taste, and the JELLY MOULD. shells and beaten whites of four eggs. Bring it quickly to a boil, and allow it to simmer for a quarter of an hour, being careful not to stir it. Draw it from the fire, and let it stand for another quarter of an hoxir. Strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, until perfectly clear. Pour into moulds, and let it stand until next day. Time to stew the apples, about an hour. Sufl&cient for two quart moulds. Pro- bable cost, 2s. per quart. Apple Charlotte.—Pare, core, and slice three pounds of good cooking apples, and stew them gently to a pulp, with a little sugar and, the thmly-chopped rind of two lemons. Well butter a mould, and plac^ at the bottom and round it thin slices of stale bread dipped in melted butter. Let the pieces of bread overlap each other, or the apple will escape. Lay a thin sHce of bread the shape of the mould over the top, cover it with a plate, and place a ■weight on it, and bake in a quick oven. Turn it out, and serve hot, with sifted sugar. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a pint mould. ,, Apple Charlotte (another way).—^Well butter a pie-dish, then place in it in alternate* layers: first bread and butter, without the crust, then apples cored, pared, and sliced, a little sugar, and the juice and thinly-chopped rind of lemon, and repeat \mtil the dish is fuU. Cover with the peel of the apples, and bake in a brisk oven. Turn out, aud serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, ono hour. A medium- sized dishful will serve four persons. Probabl.- cost, 8d, Apple Charlotte (another way). — A veiy guod Apj>lu Charlotte is made of finger- biscuits instead of pieces of bread. The mixture should be poured in hot, and well pressed down, then put into a cool place. It should be eaten cold; a little whipped cream is an improvement. Time, half an hour to make. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Apple Chartreuse.—Boil gently a cup- ful of the best rice and a little finely-grated lemon-i-ind in a quart of milk, until the rice in tender and the milk absorbed in it; add sugai- to taste. Then take eight or ten apples, and core without breaking them: put them in a dish with a little raspberrj- or red currant jam in each hoUow, and place the rice between the apples until the dish is full. Brush the whole over with the white of an egg, and sift a Uttle sugar over it. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, one hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Cheesecakes.—Pare and core half a pound of apples, and stew them with half a pound of sugar, the finely-chopped rind of a lemon, and a tea-cupful of water. Melt three ounces of butter; take five eggs, leave out the whites of two, beat them well, and mix all thoroughly together. Bake in patty-pans lined with puJE paste for a quarter of an hour. Allow one cake for each person. Probable cost> Is., without the pufE paste. Apple Cheese and Cream.—Stew to a thick pulp two pounds of apples, one pound of sugar, a little chopped lemon-rind, and half a pint of water. Put it into a mould, and when stiff, turn it out, and pour round it a little custard made of two cupfuls of new milk, the rind of a lemon, the yolk of an egg, and a tea- spoonfui of ground rice, mixed together, and boiled for a few minutes. Time to boil, five minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Apple Cream.—Peel three pounds of apples, remove the cores, and cut them in thin slices. Put them into a saucepan -with half a pound of crushed sugar, the rind of a lemon finely shred, half an oimce of ground ginger, and four table-spoonfuls of red wine. Let them simmer until they are soft enough to press through a sieve, then put them in a dish, and allow them to cool. Boil a quart of cream or new milk, vnih some nutmeg, and add the apples to it, beating all thoroughly together. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d., if made with milk. Sufficient for eight persons. Apple Cream (another way).—B9il six or seven Targe apples, with a little cinnamon, to a ])ulp, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them; the quantity of sugar must be regulated by the acidity of the apples. "WTien cold, add to them the woll-whiskod whites of three eggs. Beat all together until they are nicely frothed;