( 4J'5 ) M£A then increase the heat until the juice has become as thick as it can be made without risk of burning it. liemove the meat, and put as many lumps of butter tho siiso of an egg us there were pounds of moat employed. Thicken with a proper quantity of tioui-, and form a roux. When this is done, put the meat back into the stewpan, pour in some stock broth, simmer for two houi-s, skim the liquid, and strain it. Meat Glaze.—Full particulars regarding Meat Glaze are given in the article Glaze. Meat Glaze, in a hurry.—Glaze is an extract of meat, which, when condensed by boiling, becomes the thick varnish so useful to the cook for giving an inviting appearance to a hot or cold joint, poultry, or vegetables. Boil down a strong stock or gravy until it seems thickish as it drops from the spoon with which it is being stirred, and becomes a firm jelly when cold. Veal being more gelatinous than other meat, produces the best glaze. To make glaze in a hurry, if no stock be at hand, slice a quarter of a pound of veal as thinly as possible, and fry it over a slow fire in a small pan with a bit of butter; draw the stewpan from the fire, and stir in a very small cup of water; add pepper and salt, and again stir it until it has boiled thick; then strain it into a pot and use, laying it on with a brush. When more than one coat is required, dry before puttii^g on another. Meat Jelly for Pies {see Pies, Meat Jelly for). Meat, Liebig's Extract of («eeLiebig's Extract of Meat). Meat Patties.—Prepare the meat in the usual way, mince neatly and fill patty- pans lined with puff paste. Or, make a plain puff paste, roll thin, and form the patties like apple-puffs with the mince enveloped in the paste. Pinch the edges closely together, and fry a nice brown. Time, ten minutes to fry. Meat Pie (a la Don Pedro).—This is a kind of ragout put into a tin made expressly for the dish. Take some mutton-chops, either from the loin or neck, trim them neatly and toss them, with some chopped parsley, butter, pepper, salt, &c., in a stewpan over a slow fire. Place the chops, with some good brown gravy, into the tin baking-dish—"the Don Pedro tin"—and add slices of raw ham. Cover with the lid, but first fill in vnth. mashed potatoes to the brim; bake for two hours in a slow oven, when the tin cover may be taken off, and the chops will be found tender and succulent. Probable cost of chops, Is. per pound. Meat Pies, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Jloat Pies). Meat Pies, Pastry for {see Pastry, French, for Meat Pies, &c.). Meat Porcupine.—Press into a plain oval mould the following:—A half pound of pork, and one pound of rump-steak (chopped finely), one clove of garlic (shred), a tea-spoonful of salt, pepper, and nutmeg—the whole moistened and well beaten up with two eggs. Tiim the mixture out of the mould, and stick pieces of fat bacon all over it, to resemble a porcupine. Stew it for an hour- in hot butter, imtil it is brown all over. Probable C08t> 3s. 6d, MEAT PORCUPINE. Sufficient as a supper dish for four or five persons. Meat Preserving. — Meat taints soon, and few know how to render it, when tainted, fit for use. Some rub the joint over with pyro- ligneous acid, which effectually prevents it tvuming bad, but imparts a very disagreeable flavour. To preserve meat, thoroughly examine it when it comes from the butcher's, care- fully remove flyblows, if there be any, wipe with a perfectly dry cloth all the flaps and crevices, so as to leave no damp, which soon imparts a disagreeable taint to meat, cut out all the kernels and perceptible veins, wrap a piece of muslin lightly round the joint, sew it up, and hang it, if possible, in a current of air in a cool place. Meat, Quality of.—This is influenced by several circumstances, each of which produces a peculiar difference in the flesh of the same species of animal. The principal circumstances alluded to are the breed, the sex, the age, the nature of the pasturage or food on which the animal has been fed, its state of health, the treatment immediately previous to its being slaughtered, and the mode in which it has been deprived of life and in which the carcass is dressed. Meat Rissoles, English. — Prepare meat—beef, mutton, veal, poultry, or game—as before directed for Meat Croquettes. The rissoles may be made up in the form of cones —egged, bread-crumbed, fried without paste, and served with a gravj'. If preferred with paste, cut out double the number of rounds that are required of rissoles; on one round place the mince, egg the edge, and cover with a corresponding round. Fry, first brushing them with egg, of a nice brown; use butter, and drain the rissoles before serving. Send to table on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat. Meat Rissoles, German.— Fry two or three ounces of bacon cut into small squares, and then add the following ingredients :—To a well-beaten egg, stir a quarter of a pound of finely-minced cold meat, a quarter of a pound of soaked bread (squeezed dry), a table-spoonful of chopped onion, another of parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. When these ingre- dients are fried sufficiently, turn them out into a basin until nearly cold; then add a couple