PAB ( 612 ) FAS carefully remove the Bkiii, fat, and sinew, and put the good piocoH iiHido. liruisd* tho ro- maindor, and put it, with tho Hkiu, bonoH, and trimmings, into a saucepan. Add two shallotH, a bay-h)af, throo or four sprigH of jjaralciy, and an ounce of frosh butter, and stir these about over a gentle fire until they are liglitly browned. Sprinkle over them a tablo-spoouful of flour, and pour in three-quarters of a pint of veal stock and a glassful of sherry; put in half a dozen peppercorns, a little salt, and half a blade of mace, and simmer the gravy very gently imtil it is considerably reduced. Strain it, and let it boil up again; then put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, servo on a hot dish, with tho gravy pourod over thom. If liked, the livers of tho birds may be pounded, and mixed with the sauce. Garnish with toasted sippets. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the gravy. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the partridge. Sufficient for two or three persons. Partridges, Salmi of, Cold.—Roast a brace of young partrid^s; cut them into neat joints, and lay them on a dish. Prepare the sauce according to the directions given in the last recipe. When it is sufficiently reduced, strain it, and dissolve in it a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, which has been soaked for half an hour in as much cold water as would cover it. Cover the joints of the partridges with the sauce, let it stiffen upon them, and then arrange them, piled high in a dish, and garnish with the savoury jelly, cut into rough pieces. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Soup of.—Roast a brace of partridges before a brisk fire, so that they may brown quickly outside without losing their juice. Take them down when they are half dressed, cut off the breasts, and break up and bruise the bodies of the birds. Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan; slice into it two young carrots and four or five sticks of celery, and add two ounces of un- dressed lean ham, an onion, stuck with four cloves, half a blade of mace, two shallots, a bay-leaf, four or five bunches of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Stir these over a gentle fire until the sides of the saucepan acquire a reddish-brown tinge, then add the bodies of the birds, and, gradually, two quarts of good stock and six ounces of. brown thickening. Let the soup boil, remove the fat and the scum, and press it through a fine sieve. Put it again into the saucepan with the breasts of the birds, cut into small neat pieces, add a glassful of sherry, and a little salt and cayenne, if required; let the soup get thoroughly hot, without boiling, and serve immediately. A very nice soup may be made from grouse and partridge together; or even from the renmins of a cold roast grouse, stewed down with the partridges. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 28. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Soup of (another way).—• When partridges are too old to be satisfactorily < onl<p(l in anv other way, they may be made into soup, but it must bo understood that the soup will not be so good as if it were made from young birds. Skin the partridges and cut them into joints. Fry thom in butter with two sliced onions until lightly browned. Put them into a saucepan with three ounces of undressed loan ham and four or five sticks of celery, and pour over them two quarts of good stock. Bring the soup to a boil, skim care- fully, then di-aw it to the side of the fire, and lot it simmer gently for an hour. At the end of that time put into it a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and stew another hour. Strain the soup, pick the meat from tho birds, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, and with it its bulk in bread, which has been soaked in stock and jjressed very dry. lilix this gradually with the soup, pass it again through a sieve, put it into a saucepan, bring it to the point of boiling, and serve immediately. Probable cost. Is. lOd. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges. Stewed.—Truss a brace of partridges as ii for boiling, put them into a stewpan, cover with boUing stock or water, and put with them two onions, two carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer gently until they are tender, then take out a pint of the liquid in which they were stewed, and make with it some celery, onion, or Soubise sauce. Serve the birds as hot as possible, with the puree poured over them. Time, about thirty minutes to stew the part- ridges. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Partridges Stuffed with Mushrooms. —Take a pint of small mushrooms, and clean them by rubbing the tops with a piece of flannel and a little salt; rinse in a little cold water, lift them out quickly, and spread them on a clean cloth to dry. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, let it colour slightly, then throw in the mushrooms, sprinkle over them a little salt and cayenne, and shake the saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn out the contents upon a dish, let them get cold, and, with them, stuff two young well-hung partridges. Sew up securely, truss firmly, and roast or stew the birds in the usual way; send mushroom sauce, or, if preferred, bread sauce, and gravy, to table with them. Time, half an hour or more to roast or to stew the partridges. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five pei'sons. Passover Balls.—This is a name often given to forcemeat balls such as are used by the Jews; they are put into soup, and served with it. They are made as follows :— Put four table-spoonfuls of " matso-flour," or Jewish flour, into a bowl. Mix with it a pmch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, half a salt- spoonful of powdered ginger, and half a salt- spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Mix those dry ingredients thoroughly, then pour over them four ounces of beef suet, which has been steamed with a salt-spoonful of tmely- minced onion, until it is entirely melted, ^tlr