Ixxv PRINCIPLES—WASHING UP. Another point for the cook to bear in mind is that joints on being removed from the table should never be allowed to get cold or to be put away in the dish on which they were sent to table containing the gi-avy. Let the joint be placed on a- cold clean dish, and let the gravy be poured off through a small strainer, in order to get rid of the fat on it, into a small basin, and be put by: this gravy being useful for a variety of purposes, either to act as gravy again, or it can be added to the:stock; or should there be very young children in the famHy it can be made into a dish'of bread and gravy for the early dinner. Another point of warning to cooks in reference to their usual method of pouring away the dii-ty water in which things have been washed. They empty the lai'ge tubs into the sink, causing the sink to be some inches deep in water, and which requires time to run do^vn. However, impatience is natui-al to all of us, and too often, to save time, as they imagine, cooks will pull up the strainer in the sink bodily, upon which the water goes down fast enough, finishing with a gi'unt of satisfaction. But, alas ! in addition to running a considerable risk of blocking up the pipes, this is the fruitful cause of losses of all'descriptions in the shape of forks, spoons, &c., that get overlooked in the sink, and that get sucked down with the water. A case once came under my immediate notice, in which the pipe leading from the sink to the drain was blocked up, the cause being that no less than five steel knives were found wedged in the pipe near the bend, all of which had necessarily got down, owing to the foolish habit of lifting the strainer. Again, these strainei-s are used as traps, in order to prevent unpleasant odours rising in the house. A strainer once lifted is very apt to be forgotten, and the sink is thus often put into open communication with the drain ; the sewer gas rises in the house, spreading the deadly seeds of fever. The same remarks that applied to the washing of plates and spoons and forks apply equally to the washing of glass. Glass should always be washed in plain cold water. Now it is evident that a tumbler, say that has contained stout, or a wine- glass that has contained port wine, be easily washed when moist, but that if the stout or port be allowed to get dry in the glass that some time will have to be exjiended in cleaning it. Directly glasses are brought down-stairs they should be rinsed in cold water and turned upside down to get dry by themselves. Wet glasses take a long time 'to diy, and when dried generally present a fluffy appearance,' that necessitates their being re-wiped. Let, therefore, the glasses dry themselves, and when dry let them be polished with a good large soft leather ; and, whatever 3'^ou do, do not use the glass leather for any other purpose save that of polishing the glass. Again, glasses when dried with a cloth are very apt to break, especially those that have very thin stems, as the cloth sticks to the glass, and in twisting it is apt to crack. V/hen, therefore, a leather is used care should be taken that it is perfectly dry, as a damp leather is as liable to break glass as a damp cloth is. When dimier is brought to a close, those waiting should bear in mind that their first thought should be the table. It will sometimes be found that in clearing away this is overlooked, and that the waiters begin what may be termed clearing the room before they finish clearing the table. The one thought should be, not to keep people waiting one instant longer than is absolutely necessary. Consequently, it is more important to put the wine glasses, wine, (kc, on the table than it is to get rid of some of the things that may have been left from the diimer in the room. W^here there are two persons waiting it will be found a great saving of time if one carries a large tray in both hands whilst the other removes the things quickly and quietly from the table and places them on it.