( 276 ) GRA GBA Baucopuu, witli ii pioco of buttor or good boot' drippinj? tho sizo of a largo nut, and placo tlioin ovor a tiro till thoy aro brightly browuod all over. Koop stirring tho saucepan, to prevent their burning, and add tlu'ee-cpiarterw of a pint of water, u wprig uf parsley and thyme, six peppercorns, two cloves, and half a sidt-spoonful of salt. Sininior gently, skim, and strain, and tho gnivy is ready for use. Time, half an hour to boil tho gravy. Sufficient for three- quai-ters of a pint of gravy. Probable cost, about 7d. per pint. Gravy in haste (another way).—Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liobig's extract of meat in half a pint of boiling water. Fry the minced carrot and onion in a little butt.ir or dripping, until lightly browned, pour th3 liquid over them, let all boil together for ten minutes, add a dessert-spoonful of mushrooi i or walnut ketchup, skim, strain, and serve. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Jelly for.—Take a pound and a half of the sliin of beef, a pound and a half of tho knuckle of veal, and a quarter of a pound of lean uncooked ham. Cut the meat into small pieces, break the bone, remove the marrow, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a sliced carrot, two blades of mace, eight pepper- corns, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, three grains of cayenne, a lump of sugar, and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Pour on four pints of water, or, better still, veal broth, and let the mixtui'e simmer very gently for six hours. If quickly boiled the jolly will be spoilt. Remove the scum as it rises, and strain the gravy, which should be kept in a cool place, and boiled for a minute or two every two or three days, if it is to be kept some time. The above is an excellent recipe for making strong gravies and sauces. Probable cost, about 38. Sufficient for three pints. Gravy, Jugged.—Take half a pound of lean ham, and two pounds of lean beef—the shin is the best for this purpose. Cut them into small square pieces, and put them into an aarthen jar. Strew over, and amongst them, chopped vegetables and seasoning, consisting of a caiTot, an onion, half a drachm of bruised celerj'-seed, tied in a piece of muslin, a blade of mace, three sprigs of parsley, and one each of marjoram and thyme, six peppercorns, and a clove. Pour a quart of water on these ingre- dients, cover the jar closely, and place it in a moderate oven, for five or six hours. At the end of that time, skim and strain the gravy, which will be ready for use. Probable cost for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Gravy, Kidney.—Take half a beef kid- ney, or three shocps' kidneys. Cut them into slices, flour them, and strew over them a table- spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two parts should be parsley, and one thyme. Put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, the size of a large egg, and a small onion finely minced, and shako them over tho fire until the gravj' is almost dried up; then add a pint of boiling water, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or more, until tho gravy is done to perfection. Then skim and strain. Add salt and cayenne, and any flavouruig tliat uuiy Ije preferred. I'roljuble cost, «d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Gravy made without Meat, for Fowls.—Take tho feet, necks, livers, and gizzards of the fowls, wash them thoroughly, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of savoury herbs, a small onion, half a slice of bread, toasted brown and h^ird, but not burnt, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a pint and a half of water. Simmer very gently for an hour, or more. Pour the fat from the pan which has been under the fowl, strain the gravy to it, stir it well, strain it again into the saucepan; add a table-spoonful of mushioom ketchup, if this is liked, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a couple of fowls. Gravy Maigre for Pish (sometimes called Root Gravy). — Cut half a clove of garlic, an onion, a carrot, and a turnip into small pieces, and fry them to a glaze in a piece of butter the size of a large egg. Pour slowly over them a quarter of a pint of cold water, and add two grains of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of salt, three cloves, two sprigs of parsley, one of thjTne, half a dozen button- mushrooms, and another lump of butter, rolled thickly in flour. Simmer gently for about twenty minutes, and before straining, add half a tumblerful of sherry or Madeira. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint of gravy. Prolmble cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Gravy, Onion.—Take three Spanish onions, cut them into slices, and frj' them with two ounces of butter, till they are slightly browned. Drain them, and mix a table-spoon- ful of flour, very smoothly, with the fat. Add, gradually, three-quarters of a pint of stock, return the onions to the saucepan, and simmer gently until they are quite soft. Season with pepper and salt, pass them through a fine sieve, and boil up once more, adding two table-spoon- fuls of ketchup, two of claret, and a tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost,, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Gravy, Orange (suitable for wild water- fowl).—Cut a smtill onion into little pieces, and put it into a saucepan, with half a pint of veal stock, three or four leaves of basil, and the rind of a Seville orange—or, failing this, a lemon. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, strain the gravy, and add the jiuce of the orange, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, and a wine-glassful of port or claret. Return the liquid to the saucepan, make it as hot as possible without letting it boil, and serve in a tureen. Prol5able cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for fire or six persons. Gravy, Piquant, for Hash.—Mince very fincilv two shallots and a (luai-tor of & clove of garlic. Put them in a .stcwpnn, with a piece of buttor tho size of a wabaut. Fry very