HOW HOT ( 320 ) nrnrk thorn with the back of a knife. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for twonty-four l)unH. Hot Cross Buns (another w&y).—See Good Fridiiy 15uns. Hot Pickle.—Mince an ounce of shallots very finely, and put into a stowpan with an ounce of whole ginger, two ounces of salt, a quarter of an ounce of mustard-sood, lialf an ^)unce of pepper, two drachms of cayonuu,, and half an ounce of allspice. Pour over them a quart of vinegar, and lot the mixture boil. Put it into a jar and lot it get cold, then add any fi-osh vegetables that are obtainable, such as cauliflowers, French beans, radish-pods, aspara- gus, or even green gooseberries and unripe apples. More pickle may be added when re- quired, and vegetables as they come into season. Probable cost of pickle, Is. 6d. Sufficient for as many vegetables as it wiU entirely cover. Hot Pint, Scotch.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of cold ale with a well-beaten egg. Add a table-spoonful of sugar, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of a pint of whiskey. Stir this jnixture into two pints of ale which- are just upon the point of boiling. Leave the ingre- dients on the fire till they nearly boil, but not quite ; then pour the hot pint quickly, and from a good height, from one jug to another, for three or four minutes. It should be served hot. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the whiskey. The above quantities are sufficient for three pints of the liquid. Hot Pot.—Take two pounds of chops from the best end of the neck, and one sheep's- kidney. Trim them neatly, cut off all super- fluous fat, and lay half of them in a deep dish well buttered, and with them a kidney, cut in slices. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced o-iiions, and place upon them a quarter of a pound of potatoes cut in slices. Put two or three small lumps of dripping here and there, andrepeat until the meat is used and the dish nearly full. Cover the top with whole potatoes, pour half a pint of water or stock over, and bake in a moderate oven. A few oysters are by many considered an improvement, and for this purpose tinned oysters will be found to answer nearly as well as fresh ones, and to be much less ex- pensive. Half a tin will be sufficient for this quantity. Lay them upon the meat, pour a little of the liquid over them, and proceed as above. Time, three hours or more to bake. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost 2s. lOd. Hot Pot, Lancashire {see Lancashire Hot Pot). Hot Sauce, for Broils, &c.—Melt two oimccB of butter in a stewpan, stir m with it a table-spoonful of flour, and mix smoothly with the back of a wooden spoon until it is hghtly browned. Add gradually to it a quarter of a pint of good stock, stirring all the time; add also a tea-spoonful of chopped capors, a toa-spoonful of chopped shallots, a tea-spo-mful of mustard, half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a table-spoon- ful of port, or claret, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of cayenne. BoU gently for six or seven minulos, and serve as hot as possible. Proltable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hot Spice, for Flavouring Sauce, Gravies, &C.—Take half an ounce oadi of cinnamon,bla<kpepper,andginger. Poundtliein tlioroughly in a nioilar, and with them thi-ee- quarters of an ounce of cayenne, one ounce of mace, two ounces of finely-grated nutmeg, throe ounces of white pepper, and a dozen cloves. When thoroughly pounded and mixed put these ingre- dients into a bottle, and keep the spice closely stoppered until required. Time, half an hour to prei^are. Probable cost. Is. 8d. When it is to be used, try a little pinch of the powder at first, and add more if required. Household Gravy, Superior.—Take one pound of lean veal from the fillet. Put it into a stewpan, and with it any trimmings and bones of beef, veal, or mutton; but they must be perfectly sweet, or they will spoil the gnivy. Add half a pint of water, and simmer gently unto, a light glaze is formed at the bottom of the stewpan; then add a pint and a half of water, a small onion with one clove stuck in it, three sprigs of parsley and one of thyme, a small carrot, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. Boil; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently for one hour. It must be only partially covered, or the gravy will not be clear. Take the fat off care- fully, strain the broth, and put it aside for use. It wall keep for three or four days if boiled occa- sionally and kept without cover in a cool place. A few spoonfuls ^vill improve sauces and gravies. The veal will be found excellent if cut into convenient-sized pieces and served with a few stewed mushrooms and a little of the gravy. Sufficient for a pint and half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Housewife's Cream.—Rub the yellow part of a fresh lemon upon three ounces of loaf sugar; reduce the sugar to powder, and stir it until dissolved into half a pint of thick cream. Add the strained juice and a quarter of a pint of sherry, and whisk all well together until thick. Serve in custard-glasses, which should be kept in a cool j)lace until wanted. This cream is better if made a few hours before it is used. Just before serxing, dust a little powdered cinnamon or pink sugar over the top. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, lOd. Sufficient for four glasses. Howtowdie (a Scotch dish).—Truss a young fowl as for boiling, and stuff it with good veal forcemeat. Put it into a saucepan with a closely-fitting lid, and .with it four ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of good stock, three sprigs of parsley and one of thj-mc, half a tea-spoonful of Kilt, a quarter of a toa- spoonful of pepper, six smaU onions, a bay-leaf, and one clove. Simmer gently for one hour if the chicken is young and Rinall, and longer if necessary. Whim it is half-cooked, turn it in the p.in ai d poui- another balf-pint of gravy