XV Another important point in the principles of cookery for cooks to remember is, to avoid sending things up " smoky." Have you ever tasted a really smoky dish ? say soup, and have you any idea how it is rendered so ? for the only way to avoid the disaster is to understand the cause. We will suppose the house well ordered, the kitchen chimney swept regulai-ly, the kitchen stove properly cleaned, and the soot regulai-ly find cai-efuUy brushed away, not only from the back and sides of the gi-ate, but from the outsides of the saucepans. Yet the soup comes up smoky. I will describe the performance of smoking soup. We will suppose the saucepan boiling gently on the fire, which is getting somewhat low; the cook veiy properly puts on some coals, which, of course, causes the smoke to rise; shortly afterwards she looks at the soup to see how it is getting on, or whether it is boiling too fast. We will suppose her young and careless; and she replaces the lid with a bang, and, in so doing, shuts in some of the smoke into the saucepan. Alas ! the deed is done, and the soup, or indeed any other food, ruined, so far as taste goes. The moral of all this is, Do not take off the lids of saiicepans at all over a smoky fire. There are, of course, many persons to whom these simple elementary truths are so familiar that they may smile at the caution. On the other hand, however, they should recollect it is our duty to teach the ignorant and not the educated; and we can assure our readers that there are in this country hundreds of so-called cooks, or we may say women who do the cooking, who have sent up dishes smoky from the very cause we have named, who have not the slightest notion of why they became so. Another way of rendering dishes smoky, even when the fire is fairly clear, is to rest the lid of the saucepan on the hob while its contents are being inspected. We would ask some young cook to rest the lid on the hob as we have described, and, instead of re-covering the saucepan, to smell the lid. The lesson would be a very practical one. In cooking, as in every other art and science, to be forewarned is to be fore- anned. We have already called attention to the fact that the palate is considerably affected by the eye, so also is it affected by the nose. Tlie best illustration of this is a glass of fine old Burgundy or Chateau Margaux claret, in which, in addition to the flavour, and the colour or brightness, we have the magnificent bouquet, which appeals to the palate through the organs of scent. Accordingly it becomes an important principle in cooking to consider not only the flavour and appearance, but also to use the sense of smell as a criterion whether a dish is being properly prepared or not. Who does not recollect occasionally passing oiitside some large restaurant or first-class hotel and being greeted with a rich perfume arising through the railings, which somehow inspired perfect con- fidence in the dinner about to be served ? On the other hand, has it been your fate to dine where you have had placed immediately in front of you a dish of gi-eens improperly strained 1 To some persons of sensitive palate and nose a dinner is absolutely spoilt by a little contretemps of this kind. In the preparation of all dishes, therefore, the cook should constantly bear in mind the importance of using her scent as well as her palate and her eye. Many a good dish has been utterly spoHt by one of the many ingredients'being bad which when added has contaminated the whole, which a very little care in smelling would have prevented. For instance, gravy that has been left, or the remains of beef-tea, is always added to the stock-pot or mixed up with the soup. Now it often liappens, especially in hot weather, that Uttle quantities of this kind turn sour,