BEB (18* ) DEV mixture, yolks and whites. Have ready a pio- dish, lino it with puff paste, and put some marmalado at the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. tid., without marmalade. Sufficient for eight persons. Derwentwater Cakes. — Divide four eggs, boat up the yolks and whisk the whites to a froth. Rub half a pound of good fresh butter into one pound of floui", add half a pound of well-washed currants, and the same quantity of powdered sugar. Mix the flour witli the eggs to a stiff paste, lloll and cut into small round cakes. Bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for one dozen or more cakes. Dessert Biscuits.—Whip half a pound of good fresh butter to a cream. If the weather be cold, place it beside the fire before com- mencing operations, but it should not oil. Stir in gradually one pound of flour and half a pound of sugar, then add the flavouring of lemon, ratafia, cinnamon, &c., and lastly, mix all together with the beaten yolks of half a dozen eggs. Butter a paper and lay it over a cake tin, drop some of the mixture on it at equal distances, so separating the biscuits that they may have space to spread, which they wiU do as soon as they get warm. See that the oven is no ; too hot, and that they do not get highly coloured. Time, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Dessert Cakes.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, and add to it gra- dually an .3qual weight of finely-sifted sugar, and the same of ground rice, and as much baking powder as would cover a sixpence. Iilix thoroughly, then stir in three well-beaten eggs. Pour into well-oiled tins, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, ten minutes. Sufficient for one dozen cakes. Probable cost, 8d. Dessert Ic& Currants.—To the beaten whites of two eggs add a quarter of a pint of clear spring water, and mix them thoroughly toge- ther. Select some fine bunches cf currants, red and white. Immerse each bunch separately in the mixtmv, and let them drip a minute, then roll them carefully in a quantity of finely- sifted sugar ; let the rolling be repeated. Lay them with a space between each bunch on paper to dry and become crystallised. Devil, Dry.—Score the drumstick, giz- zard, or any other part of tui-key, fowl, veal, or mutton kidney. Rub the meat to be devilled with pepper and salt, put a thick coating of made mustard over this, with as much cayenne as liked. Broil over a clear fire. Devil Gravy.—Take three table-spoonfuls of melted butter, and the same of good gravy; add to it a dessert-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of pounded loaf sugar, a glass of ketchup, and the same of white wine, with the juice of a lemon. Make aU warm together, then pour it over the devilled turkey, goose, or fowl. Devil, Wet.—Score the leg of a roasted turkey, and fill up the cuts with a seasoning of muitard, p'^pper, and sal,: tJion broil over a clear fire, and pour the following sauce, made hot, over it when sent to table. To three table- spoonfuls of gravy and one of melted butter, add a tea-spoonful each of Harvey's sauce, mushroom ketchup, Chilli vinegar, and mustard^ a largo wine-glassful of port, a table-spoonful of loinon-juico, and a little cayenne and black popper. More seasoning may be added, but this will be best regulated by the taste of the con- sumer. Devilled Biscuit.—Make a seasoning of cayenne, anchovy paste, salt, and curry powder; butter some captain's biscuits, lay the mixture over and grill, or make a paste of cheese, mus- tard, and salt, and spread over when toasted. Butter unsparingly. Time, from five to ten minutes. Probable cost, Id. per biscuit. Devizes Pie.—Take thin slices from a calf's head when cold, and some of the brains, pieces of cold lamb, pickled tongue, a few sUcea of bacon, and some hard-boiled eggs cut neatly into rings ; with these fill a pie-dish. Season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and spice; arrange the meat in layers ; see that all is well-seasoned, and fill up the dish with a rich gravy. Bake in a slow oven, with a cover of flour and water paste, and remove when cold. The pie must then be turned out on a dish. Garnish with parsley and pickled eggs sliced. Time to bake, one hour. Devon Cakes.—Rub half a pound of good fresh butter into one pound of flour, beat up an egg and mix it with half a pint of milk, and sweeten the milk with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Mix the flour and milk together into a paste, and roll it out thin to be cut into any shapes liked. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven,'with grated loaf sugar over for ten minutes, Probable cost for this quantity. Is. 4d. Devonian Pudding. — Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, and stir into it gradually two table-spoonfuls of fine flo\u: untU it boils. When it thickens slightly, pour it into a basin to cool. Mix in a separate dish the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four well beaten, the rind of a smaU lemon grated, eight ounces of sugar, and three ounces' of butter previously beaten to a cream. Blend this thoroughlj' -with the mixture of milk and flour. Pour into a well-buttered pie-dish, round which has been placed an edging of puff paste, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. When ready, dust pounded sugar over it, and serve hot. It may also be used cold. Probable cost. Is. Devonshire Brandy Pudding.—Take the remains of a cold plmn pudding, cut it into long strips half an inch thick, and steep them in brandy or rum for a few minutes. Fill a buttered mould, crossing them neatly and uniformly one over the other. Prepare a cus- tard of five eggs, a pint of milk, and a flavour- ing of lemon and nutmeg; pour as much of tliis into the mould as will quite fiU it, and send the remainder to table poured over the pudding. A floiu-ed cloth must be tied over the mould and it should be kept boiling for one hour. Suffir.ient for four or five persons.