BAG (41) BAC Bacon, To Smoke.—Bacon and hams mav bo smoked at home by being hung up in the" chimney of a tire in which wood only is burnt. Fir or deal must not be used. The best is oak, and its sawdust, if it can be procured. But the operation is best—because more slowly and uniformly—performed in buildings specially constructed for the purpose. The Westphalian hams, principally cured at Hamburg, are smoked in extensive chambers in the upper storeys of high buildings. The smoke Id conveyed to these rooms through tubes from fires in the cellar. The vapour is condensed and the heat absorbed; so that the smoke, when it reaches the meat, is dry and cool, and communicates a flavour far superior to that obtained by the common method. Bacon and Beans.—Put two pounds of good tender bacon into a pan with cold water, nearly full. When it has boiled over one horn- add a quart of shelled broad beans, and boil till tender. Take off the skin from the bacon, sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top of it, and serve with the beans under, and fried parsley as a garnish round the dish. Smoked bacon shoidd be dressed separately and placed on the beans when ready. Probable cost of bacon, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bacon and Beans (another way). — "Windsor, or broad beans, are rather indigestible if old. Throw some young beans, freshly sheUed, mto boiling water with a little salt. When the skin begins to shrivel drain them through a colander, and serve with parsley and butter. When the beans are old the out- side skins will come off easily if boiled for half an hour. The bacon should bo boiled separately {see BoUed Bacon), and placed on the top of the beans. Time to boil the beans, fif- teen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per peck. Bacon and Bread Fricadelle.—Lay half a pound of bacon in rashers between slices of crumb of bread of the same size, press them together and dip them into a batter of egg, milk, and flour, and fry them from eight to ten minutes over a moderate fire. Garnish with parsley or serve with a sharp sauce. Pro- bable cost, 8d. or 9d. Sufficient for two or throe persons. Bacon and Calf's Liver.—The most economical way to prepare this is to fry the bacon first and make the fat serve for the liver, which, as well as the bacon, should be cut into thm slices. Frj'- the bacon, and remove it as soon as it is done enough to a hot dish before the fire; flour and pepper the liver, and place it in the pan; turn frequently until done, then place a slice of bacon on each slice of liver. Make a gravy by pouring off the tat and dredging a little flour into the pan, pour in enough water to supply the quantity of gravy desired, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, boil and pour upon the dish, (jrami.sh with forcemeat or slices of lemon. Time, from five to ton minutes. Cost, bacon, Is hver, lOd. per pound. C* Bacon and Eggs. — Place nicoly-cut slices of streaked bacon, from which the rind has been cut off to prevent it from curling up, into a cold pan over a slow fire; turn frequently and serve with eggs, which may be poached or fried, and laid on the bacon. Time, three or four minutes. Bacon, Is. per pound. Bacon and Eggs, or Ham or Sausage and Eggs.—This may be called a " country dish." in Devonshire and Cornwall it is the standing one when all others fail. A nice dish of bacon and eggs is to be had at every way- side house. It too often happens that this very plain repast is indifferently cooked. When the bacon or ham is fried see that the fat be quite free from bum before the eggs are slipped into it; baste them with the fat, trim them and drain the grease before dishing. Sausages should be slowly dressed, or they are apt to burst, and so spoil the appearance of a savoury meal. Serve with mashed potatoes round the dish. Time, about five minutes. Probable cost of bacon, lOd. to Is. per pound; sausages, lOd. per pound. Bacon or Ham Omelet.—Beat six eggs, and add a small tea-spoonful of flour mixed with a table-spoonful of milk or water, and pepper and salt to taste. Mince half a pound of cold boiled bacon or ham, and stir it in with the egg. Dissolve a good piece of butter or fat in the omelet-pan and pour in the omelet. OMELIT-PAN. Shake the pan while dressing. In three or four minutes the sides may be folded over, and the omelet turned out on a hot dish, or taken up with a flat spoon. Some cooks prefer to put the bacon or ham in the middle and fold the sides over it. This kind of omelet may be made with a variety of ingredients : cold meat, kid- ney, green-peas, asparagus tops, small mush- rooms, oysters, and lobster. Time, from three to four minutes. Probable cost, about Is. with bacon. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Bacon or Ham, To Cure (Devon- shire way). — Draw away all the slime and blood from two hams by rubbing them well with salt for two days before they are put into the pickle. Drain them, lay them in a pan, and pour over them boiling hot the following in- gredients :—two pounds of treacle, two ounces of saltpetre, one pound of common salt, and one pint of good vinegar; turn and baste them every day for a month, then drain and smoke. Time to salt, one month. Probable cost of pickle. Is. Sufficient for a ham of sixteen pounds weight. Bacon or Ham, To Cure (Wiltshire way).—The excellence of bacon depends to a great degree upon the care with which