(197) EGG Eggs and Asparagus.—Cut a slice of bread to suit a dish, toast imd butter it while quite hot, then lay it on the dish, and keep both wai-m by the side of the fire. Have ready six well-beaten eggs, add a little salt and {)epper, and put them into a saucepan with a map of buttei-. Beat the eggs until they have lost their fluid state, then spread them over the toast with asparagus, boiled and cut small. Laid oa the top of the eggs. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for two or more persons. Eggs and Asparagus (another way). —Boil some nice young asparagus, and cut it into pieces as nearly as possible like peas. Have ready four eggs well beaten, and flavoured with pepper and salt. Put the asparagus with them and stir gently; then dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and stir the mixture until it is thick. Serve on toast. Time to boU asparagus, fifteen to eighteen minutes after the water boils; to stew with the eggs, two or three minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Eggs and Bread.—Take a penny loaf, soak it in a quart of milk for two hours, or till the bread is soft. Put to it two table- spoonfuls of orange-fiower water or rose-water; sweeten it, and grate into it a little nutmeg. Take a dish and butter the bottom of it, break in as many eggs as will cover the bottom, pour in the bread and milk, beat all briskly with a fork, and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Eggs and Burnt Butter.—Prepare half a dozen eggs as if for poaching, by breaking each one separately into a cup. Brown three ounces of butter in a large frying-pan, and slide the eggs from the cups into it; when they have well set, ladle the burnt butter over them, and sprinkle salt and some nutmeg. Serve on toast wetted with vinegar. Time, from two and a half to three and a half minutes, according to size of eggs. Sufficient, two eggs for each person. Eggs and Celery.—Put into a stewpan four heads of celery that have been previously cut into short pieces, and boUed till nearly done in salt and water. Stew the celery for five minutes with three table-spoonfuls of cream and half a table-spoonful of vinegar. Season according to taste with salt and white pepper. Place the celery on a dish, and serve poached eggs neatly on the top of it. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. Time, half an hour or more to boil celery. Sufficient for five or six poached eggs. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Eggs and Cucumber.—Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan, and let it dissolve. Peel, quarter, and cut into slices three small cucumbers, and shred some young onions; add these to the butter, flavour with pepper and salt, and throw in half a table-spoonful of vinegar. When the mixture has simmered ten minutes, have ready slices of six hard-boiled 6gg8, which warm up for two minutes longer, stirring in a table-spoonful of cream just before serving. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for three or four persona. Eggs and Garlic.—Pound ten cloves of garlic that have been boiled for twenty minutes— the water having been changed during the boil- ing—with a couple of anchovies; put them, when well pounded, into a stewpan, and add two table- spoonfuls of oil, the beaten yolks of two eggs, a table-spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt, and mix all together while being heated. Put the mixture on a dish, and serve with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Four eggs will cut slices enough for this dish. Time, ten minutes to dress eggs; two or three minutes to warm the mixture. Sufficient, two eggs to each person. E^gs and Gravy.—Put a young well- fed fowl into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, some spice, a faggot of herbs, and half a dozen small onions, let it brown slightly and equally; add half a pint of stock, close the lid tightly, and finish the cooking over a very slow fire. Parboil the liver of the fowl in some good gravy, remove it, and poach half a dozen eggs in the same liquor. Rub down the liver to a paste, and use it to thicken the gravy in which the fowl has been stewed. Place the fowl on a hot dish, with balls of spinach round it; lay a poached egg on each ball, flattening it with the back of the slice; pour the gravy over the fowl, and serve hot. Time, one hour to stew the fowl. Eggs and Milk.—Beat six eggs with two ounces of loaf sugar and a pint of milk; put the whole into a pie-dish, which set for three- quarters of an hour in a bain-marie. When done, sprinkle it with powdered sugar, pass the red-hot shovel over the top, and serve either hot or cold. Eggs and Mushrooms.—Cut oS the ends and stalks from half a pint of mushroom buttons, put them into a basin of water with a little lemon-juice as they are done. Drain and slice them with some large onions, which fry in butter. If liked the onions can be omitted, and the mushrooms can be stewed whole. Put the mushrooms when tender on a dish, break some eggs upon them to cover the surface, and in doing this be careful not to break the yolks of the eggs. Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle browned crumbs on the top, and put the dish in a hot oven till the eggs are set. Serve immediately. Time to stew mushrooms, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost of mushrooms, Is. to 2s. per pint. Eggs and Onions.—Fry some onions, nicely sliced, in butter; put a rather large sprinkling of cayenne pepper over them. Drain them from the butter, and put them on a dish before the fire to dry a little. Press out the juice of a lemon over them, and then lay nicely- poached eggs on the top. Serve very hot. Time to fry onions, five minutes; to poach eggs, three to four minutes. Six eggs sufficient for three persons. Eggs and Potatoes.—Boil seven or eight floury potatoes and mash them while quite hot; add one ounce of butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, and salt, and, if liked, a little pounded onion, and boiled minced parsley. Roll the potatoes into egg-like shape, brush them over