EID ( 349 ) KIT imd a half .to two hours to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Kidney Pudding—Cut the htu:d core out of the centre of an ox kidney, and divide the meat into pieces an iach square.^ Season these with pepper and salt; and, if liked, add an onion and two ounces of beef suet, finely mine ed. Make some pastry, with three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of good dip- ping, and as much water as is requiied. fioU it out, line a pudding-basin with it, and put in the shces of meat. Foui- over them a tea-cupful of cold water, place a cover of pastry on the top, pinch the edges securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, and plunge it into boiling water. Boil quickly. Turn the puddiag out when cooked enough, and serve very hot. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicient for four persons. Kidney Pudding (another way).—This pudding may also be made of mutton, veal, or lamb. Make the pastry as directed in the last recipe. Line a pudding-basin with it, and shce half a dozen kidneys. Season them with salt and cayeime, and sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two-thii'ds should be parsley and one-third thyme. Put them in the basin, pour over them two or three table-spoonfuls of good veal stock and a glassful of light wine ; cover them with the crust, pinch in the edges securely, tie the pudding ia a floured cloth, plimge it into boiling water, and keep' it boiling quickly until it is cooked enough. Serve as hot as possible. Time to boU, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Kidney, Rissoles of.—Take the remains of an ox kidney ; cut some thin slices from it, weigh them, and to half a pound of kidney put half a pound of lean boiled ham. Mince the meat very finely, season with pepper and salt, and moisten it with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Poll out half a poimd of the trimmitfgs of puff paste to the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Divide the mince into small balls, roll each one in paste, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browmed. Serve as hot as possible, and garnish with parsley. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Kidney Soup.—Cut an ox kidney into thin sUces. Season these with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour over them, and fiy them in butter until they are nicely browned. Pour over them as much boiling water as will cover them, and simmer gently for an hour. Take out the kidney, cut it into small pieces, and re- turn it to the saucepan, together with two quarts of stock, two tuniips, two carrots, one onion, three sticks of celery, all cut small, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Simmer slowly for an hour and a half, then take out the herbs; add a tablo-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper, if required, and thicken the soup with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Probable cost, 1 s. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kidney Toast.—Pound a cold veal kid- nry, with the fat which surrounds it, in a mortar. Season it with half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the finely-grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, and two or three grates of nutmeg. Mix it with the white of an egg, well whisked. Lay it upon pieces of toast cut into squares. Cover with the yolk of the egg, well beaten, and strew bread-crimibs over. Melt one ounce of butter in a dish, put in the toasts, and place them in a hot oven to bake. Serve as hot as possible. Time, a quartet of an houi- to bako the toasts. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidneys (a la Tarttue).—Broil five or six kidneys. Put them on a hot dish, and serve the following sauce with them, which should be prepared before the kidneys are put on to broil:—Beat the yolk of an egg for two or three minutes. Add very gradually, in drops at first, six tea-spooniuls of oil, and then one of tarragon vinegar. Beat the mixture well between every addition, or the oil wiU fioat at the top. Repeat until the sauce is of the con- sistence of thick cream. Four table-spoonfuls of oil, and one of vinegar, will be about the quantity required. Add a pinch of salt, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of unmixed French mustard, five or six gherkins, three shallots, finely minced, a tea-spoonful each of chopped chervil, tarragon, and bumet, and half a tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Put a tea-spoonful of this sauce in the hollow of each kidney, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, six minutes to broil the kidney; about three-quarters of an hour to prepare the sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 3d. each. Kidneys, Minced.—Chop an ox kidney into pieces the size of a pea, season them rather highly with salt and cayenne, and fry them in two ounces of hot butter for a quarter of an hour, moving them about frequently in the pan, that they may be equally cooked. Moisten the mince with one table-spoonful of good brown gravy, and three table-spoonfuls of champagne, stew a few minutes longer and serve in a hot dish. Kidneys, Mutton {see Mutton Kidneys). Kitchen Mixed Spice, for White Sauce.—Take the grated rind of half a lemon, half a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace. ]\Iix thoroughly. If not quite fine, pound all together in a mortar, and keep in a closely- stoppered bottle until wanted for use. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. When using kit- chen mixed spice, put half a tea-spoonful into a pint of sauce, and taste if more is required. Kitchen Utensils {see Utensils, &c.). Kitchener's Salad Mixture. — Boil a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes ; the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they wiU not incorporate with the in- gredients. Rub them through a sieve w'ith a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table- spoonful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table-spoorfuis of oil, or melted butter;