( 422 ) MIL MIL Milk Sconea.—Mix in a bowl a pound and a half of Hour, a hoapod toa-«poonful of carbonato of soda, tho stimo of croam of tartar, a pint of 80ur milk, and a littlo salt. Knead a little with tlie hands, roll it out, and bako in a quick ovon for ten minutes. Milk Soup.—Peel two largo potatooH and the whito part only of one leek. If a lo(!k cannot be had, a small onion may be used instead. Boil until soft in a quart of water, add a slice of butter and a little pepper and salt. Hub all through a colander with tho back of a wooden spoon. !Mix a pint of milk with the water in which tho vegetables were boiled, add the pulp, and boil the soup again, stirring it to keep it from burning. Sprinkle in a table-spoonful of crushed tapioca, boil fifteen minutes longer, and serve at once. Vermicelli or any Italian paste may, if liked, be used instead of tapioca. The French stir in pounded cocoa-nut or almonds just before serving. All whito soups should be warmed in a vessel placed in another of boiling water. Time, an hour to pre- pare. Sufficient, two quarts of milk for eight persons. Milk Soup (a German recipe).—-Set one quart of milk over the fire in a clean saucepan. Beat well the yolks of two eggs with a tea-spoon- ful of flour, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and a pinch of salt. Just before the milk boils, stir these in. If, after the eggs are put in, the soup is allowed to boil, it will curdle. All milk soups are made in the above manner, and varied by adding any preferred flavour, such as vaniUa, lemon, laurel-leaves, almonds (pounded), cin- namon, chocolate, &c. A savoury soup may also be made with onions, previously stewed in butter. They should be put into the boiling milk with pepper and salt for ten minutes before serving. Nudels, or home-made maca- roni, thrown into milk and boiled for a quarter of an hour, mikes another variety. This may be merely sweetened. M^hites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth, and dropped on the top of the soup when in the tureen, have a very pretty effect, as have also yolks of eggs, boiled hard. Probable cost, 7d. per quart. Sufficient, allow a quart to every three persons. Milk Spatzen.—There are many different sorts of German '-spatzen," or batter-flakes, but they are all cooked in the same manner, which is, when the batter is made, whether it be of milk, water, or eggs, to scrape a few drops of it quicklv from a plate into a saucepan of boihng hquid with a wotted knife, so as to form separate little flakes of batter. Tlie batter for milk " spatzen " is miide of milk and flour, and should be stiff. Boil the flakes m milk for five minutes. Drain them, add two eggs, well-beaten, a little butter, and salt if served with roast meat, or sugar if served with jam. Time to boil, until the flakes float on the top. Probable cost, 8d. for a half-pint of batter. Milk Suet.—Put a pint of new milk into a stewpan over a slow fire, and add an ounce of mutton-sunt cut like shavings, the nnd of a quarter of a lemon, a small stick of cinnamon, and as much good white sugar as will sweeten. When tho suet has dissolved, and the flavour of lemon and cinnamon is gained, it is ready. Strain and use hot. Tliis milk is (xdisidored very iKJunshing and eflicacious in cases of lioarseneBS or loss of voice. Time, luilf an houi- or more. Probable cost, 4d. Milk Sugared^ or Lait Sucre.-A cold di-ink for evening entertainments, much used for children in France, and made by simply l)oiling milk with lemon-rind and sugar. \Vlien the flavour of lemon is gained, it is allowed to cool, and in ready for use. Milk Toast.—Slice some bread, toast it of a nice light bro-wn on both sides. Boil a pint of milk; mix together two tea-spoonfuls of flour in a little cold water; stir this into the boiling milk. Let it boil about one minute; then add a little salt, and stir into it two ounces of butter. Dip the toast in the milk, place it on a dish, and pour the remainder of the milk over it. The toast may be made much richer by increasing the quantity of butter. Milk, To Preserve.—Pour the milk into a bottle, and place the vessel up to its neck in a saucepanful of water, which is then to be put on the fire, and allowed to boil for a quarter of an hour. The bottle is now to be removed fi-om the water, and carefully closed with a good and tight-fitting cork, so as to render it as air-tight as possible. Milk which has been preserved by this process has been kept for more than a year without turning sour. Milk may also be preserved by putting a table-spoonful of horseradish scraped in shreds into a panful of milk. When milk thus treated is kept in a cool place, it -vsnll be found to keep good for several days, even in hot weather. Mill, Chocolate {sec Chocolate Mill). Mille Fruit Ice-cream. — Kasp two lemons, take the juice of them, a glass of wine, one of gi'apc-sjTup, a pint of thick cream, and eight ounces of powdered sugar. Mix and freeze, and when sufficiently congealed, add four ounces of preserved fruits, which cut small, and mix well with the ice. Let the cream remain in the ice until wanted. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of wine, &c. Sufficient for a quart mould. MiUe Fruit Water-ice. — To half a pint of water and a pint of clarified sugar, add half a pint of sherry and grape-s>Tup, mixed- there should be two-thirds of the latter—tho strained juice of five lemons and of a larg*' orange, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Mix, and set the mixture to freeze. "V^Tien suf- ficiently congealed, put some presers-ed fruit —about four ounces to this quantity will be enough —amongst the ice, and finish tho freezing. Large fruit should be cut small. Millet Pudding.—Like sago and other small seeds, millet should be washed bpforo boihng. Simmer over a slow fire, stimnir ciircfullv, four ounces of millet, in nearly n quart oif milk. Flavour xvith th.. .bin nnd of lemon, cinnamon, or nutmeg. When cooled. HW(«eten and stir in four beaten eggs. I'lH a wcll-buttered pie-dish, and bake; or the