GEN ( 246 ) pan with a pound of sugar to overy pint and a half of juice, a littlo applo jolly, tho juico of a lomun, aim a quarter of a pound of round rico. I'lucu the pan on tho liro, and stir iionatanlly until the niixturo thickens; then pour it into an oiled mould, and, when it ia cold, turn it out ou a glass dish, and serve with a littlo i;reani or custard. If tho fruit juice is already sweetened, less suyar will, of course, he roipiired. Time, half an hour. Prohable cost, Is. 4d. per quart. Suthciout for a good-sizod mould. Gaulfres (an easy way to make).— Clarify a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and mi.v it with a pound of siftod loaf sugar, one pound of host fiour, eight eggs svoll beaten, two tablo-spoonfula of brandy, a tiny pinch of salt, a stick of pounded vanilla, and one or two grates of nutmeg. Drop the mixture on well- buttered baking-tins, in rounds the size of tho top of a wne-glass, and, as soon as they are baked, cui'l them round a reed. Let them dry in a cool oven or before the firo, and shake a little sifted sugar over them before serving. A little good jam may be spread lightly on them, or they may be filled with whipped cream. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient, a few may be put round a mould of jelly or blancmange. G-auflfres, Flemish.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with one pound of fine flour, mix thoroughly, and add rather more than a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, a small pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of yeast. Mix with a wooden spoon until the flour is quite smooth, and leave it three-quarters of an hour to rise; then add a glass of brandy, and the white of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Heat the gauifre-irons over or in a clear slow fire. When sufficiently hot, rub the inside with a little clarified butter or fresh lard, and fill one side of the irons with a little of the batter. Bake a few minutes, and when the ganffre is brightly browned on one side, turn the irons over to brown it on the other. The irons may be opened a little, to see if it is done. Turn the gauffre out, rub the inside of the iron with a little more butter, and repeat this with each gaufEre. Set the gauifres in a cool oven or before the fire. Serve quite hot, and dust a little sugar over before serving. If any are left, they may be warmed again before the fire or in the oven. Before attempting to make gauflires it is well to see them made. Probable cost. Is. 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient, a dozen or eighteen for a dish. GauffVes, Flemisll (another way).—Dis- solve one ounce of yeast in half a pint of new milk; mix twelve ounces of flour Avith the milk, and make it into a soft dough, which put to rise near the fire. Melt six ounces of butter; add to it half an ounce of powdered sugar, the rind of two oranges rubbed off on some more sugar, which should also be pounded, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. When the sponge has risen to double its original quantity, mix the above ingredients well with it, adding half a pint of whipped cream, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites whisked to a firm froth. JIuc the whites lightly with the batter, and cover again to rise. When ready, smear the gauifre-irons with clarified butter, iill with a spoon, and Ijake a Ijright yellow coloui-. Turn tlio gaufl^re-hons that tho batter may run u\Ui the other side, and set them over a charcoal tire. Let them bi; removed from the irons when done, triiimied, and tli(.-n set in the oven or before u fire. Shake lemon, orange, or vanilla sugar over, and serve on a napkin. Great care must be taken to prevent the gaulfrea from getting too brown. Probable cost, 28. 3d. for this quantity. Gelatine Jelly.—Where economy if) a consideration, as it is in tlie majority of homes, pretty and palatable dishes may bo made from gelatine. The objection to the use of this article is that it often imparts a gluey taste to tho jelly, the only remedy for which ip that care should be taken to obtain as good a quality of gelatine as possible, and not to use a larger quantity than is necessary for the fimmess of the diflh. Soak the gelatine in water until it swells ; this will be in about an hour. Dis- solve it in a little boihng water for a few minutes, add wine, lemon-juice, sugar, and flavouring according to taste, and pour into a damp mould. Keep it in a cool place until firmly set. If very stiff, it may be turned out more easily if dipped in boiling water for a moment. Probable cost, 6d. per quart packet. Gelatine Jelly (another way).—Soak.one ; ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water I for three-quarters of an hour. Stir it into a pint i of boUing water, remove the scum as it rises, and I when the gelatine is quite dissolved, strain it j through a bag, and it is ready to be sweetened '\ and flavoured in the same way as calf's-feet jeUy. In nearly all the recipes where isinglass is ordered, gelatine may be used, but, though half the price, it is neither so nourishing nor so delicate in flavour. Probable cost, 6d. per oimce. Sufficient, one ounce of gelatine for a pint and a half of jelly, or a quart if placed upon ice. Gelatine and Isinglass Jelly («««Isin- glass and Gelatine Jelly). General's Sauce.—Put a tea-spoonful of cloves into a mortar with half a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, a sprig of thjTne, the thinly-peeled rind of half a Seville orange, three minced shallots, a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, and one ounce of salt. Bruise them thoroughly. Put them into a stone jar, and posr over them a cupful of sherry, two table-spoonfuls of verjuice, two of lemon-juice, and four of vinegar. Cover the jar closely, and put it into a cool oven, or by the side of the fire, for five or six hours. Pour off the liquid gently, strain it, put it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Suffi- cient, mix a tea-spoonful in half a pint of melted butter or gravy, and taste if more be required. Probable cost, Is. per pint, exclusive, of the sheiTy. Geneva Buns.—Rub two ounces of butter into a poimd of flour, add a pinch of salt, and set the sponge with a dessert-spoonful of good yeast, mixed with half a pint of milk. Let it'stand for nearly an hour, then work it