( 266 ) GIN GIN Gingerbread Pudding. — Rul) about ono ounco of Luttor or good beef dripping into ono pound of flour; add a loa-spoonful of ground gmger, a hoapod tea-spoonful of baking-powdm-, anil bullii'iont troaclo warmed in a tablo-spoon'- ful of milk to make a liglit, smooth paste. Pour into n buttorod mould, and boil for two lioura.^ Sei-\-e with troaclo aauco. Probable 'jost, 5d. iSulliciiuit for four or five porsons. Suitable for this nursi'ry. ^ Gingerbread Pudding (another way).— Grate six ounces of stale bread very finely. Mix it vdth three ounces of flour and six ounces of finely-shred beef suet. Add a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and two or three drops of almond or •> lemon flavoui-ing. Make up into a smooth paste with half a pound of treacle, slightly ■warmed. Pour into a buttered mould, and boil for two hours. Probable cost, 7d. {Sufficient for four persons. , Gingerbread Sugar.—Whisk well two fresh eggs, and add gradually half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half an ounce of ground ginger, and half a pound of fine flour. A little ■water may be added if the paste is too stiff. Bake in round cakes for fifteen minutes on a buttered tin. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Thick. — Mix half an ounce of carbonate of soda, perfectly free from lumps, with two pounds of flour ; add six ounces of brown, sugar, two ounces of powdered ginger, and half an ounce of ground caraway- seed. Melt half a pound of fresh butter in two pounds of treacle. Mix this gradually ■with the flour—it must not be hot, or the gingerbread -will be heavy—and add, last of all, three well-beaten eggs. Half fill shallow tins, ■well buttered, -with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Brush the gingerbread over ■with the ;yolk of an egg, mixed -svith a little milk, before it is put into the oven, and again two or three minutes before it is taken out. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. Gingerbread, White. —Rub three ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, the fijiely-chopped rind of a small lemon, half a nutmeg, grated, and as much carbonate of soda as -will lie on a sixpence, dis- solved in half a cupful of lukewarm nulk. Mix all together to a smooth, firm batter, roll it out on a floured board, stamp it into rounds with the top of a wine-glass, and bake immediately in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread without Butter.—Cut into very thin slices four ounces of candied lemon, orange, and citron. IVIix them with an ounce of ground ginger, half an ounce ; of coriander-seed, and half an ounce of cara- way-seed. Stir these into one poimd of V. treacle, and add as much flour as -will make a smooth paste. Drop from the end of a knife upon oven-tins, and bake in a brisk oven. This gingerbread will keep some time, if kept closely covered in tin boxes. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, la. Ginger Candy,—I^Liko a thin bvtud. bv boilmg one pound of refined loaf sugar with a cupful of water. Flavour it with a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger-root, and colour witli a little saftron. As the syrup boils, keep moving it against the side of the pan, jmd when it turns wliite it is done enough. Pour it out as quickly as possible, or it will turn to powder. The candy may bo put upon sheets of tliick writing- paper, which have been liiid upon cold dishes. It should b(! removed when warm, but will break if touched while hot. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Ginger Cordial.—Pick two pounds of white or black currants. Bruise them slightly, and mix -with them one ounce and a half of ground ginger. Pour over them one quart of good whisky or brandy, and let them stand for two days. Strain off the liquid, add one pound of loaf sugar, boiled to a syrup, ■with a small tea-cupful of water. Bottle, and cork closely for use. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for three pints of cordial. Ginger Cream.—Cut four ounces of pre- served ginger into thin slices. Put the yolks of three fresh eggs into a saucepan, ■with a pint of milk and two table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Let it boil gently, stirring all the time, till the cream is thick and smooth. Strain it into a basin, add one gill of cream and three-quart«rs of an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little milk. "Whisk it until it thickens, pour it into a damped mould, and put it in a cool place until set. Time, four hours or more to set the cream. Probable cost, 3s. 2d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for two pints and a half of cream. Ginger Cream Ice.—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger, cut this into very thin slices, using a silver knife if it is at hand, put them into a saucepan with a pint of cream —or a pint of milk boiled and mixed with the yolks of six eggs—half a pound of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of the ginger 'syrup. Stir the mixture over the fire until it thickens a little, then strain through a sieve. Pour into a mould, and when the cream is cold, freeze in the ordi- nary way. Keep in ice till wanted. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. for this quantity if made ■with cream ; Is. 4d., if made with milk and eggs. Sufficient for a little less than a quart of ice. Ginger Cup Cake.—IMix two cupfuls of sifted sugar with two cupfuls of butter, melted, but not oiled. Add thi-ee weU-beaten eggs, a cupful of treacle, four heaped cupfuls of flour, a table-spoonful of ground ginger, a table-spoon- ful of dissolved saleratus, and a cupful of new nulk. When thoroughly and smoothly mixed, pour into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. If preferred, the mixture may be baked in patty-pans. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour in small pans, an hour and a half in a mould. Probable cost, Is. 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Ginger Drops.—I*Iix one ounce of ground ginger vnth one pound of sifted sugar, and put thom into a saucepan \vith a cupful of water; add two ounces of freslily-c.andied orange, pounded in a mortar, with a little sugar. Boil gently, stirring all the time, xmtil the syrup