DUT DUM ( 190 ) well mixed over the firo, and send hot to table. Probable cost, Is. Ud. Sullicicnt for live or si.x persons. Dumbarton Cake.—Beat up four eggs with hall" a pint of new milk, and flavour them with orange-tlower or rose-water. Turn half a pound of butter to cream, and work into it half a pound of white sugar, l^ut those together, and add a wine-glassful of brandy, a quarter of on ounce of cinnamon, and the same of grated nutmeg. Dissolve as much c^irbonato of soda as will cover a shilling in a table-spoonful of hot water, and beat in sufficient Hour to make the mixture as for a pound cake. Bake in a but- tered tin and a quick oven. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 'is. Dumpling Drops.—Take one pound and a half ot the best flour, make a hole in the middle, into which put a quarter of an ounce of fresh German yeast, with a quarter of a pint of warm water or milk, mix it into a thin batter, scatter a little flour lightly over the top, and leave it by the side of the fire to rise. When well risen make it into a dough, with a little more warm milk, to which add two well-beaten eggs and a little salt. Let it rise for an hour, form it into light balls, and drop them one by one into fast-boiling water. When done, drain them an instant, but send to table quickly with gravy, or sugar and butter, or with melted butter, sweetened and flavoured with lemon- juice. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, about 8d. Dumplings, Half-hour.—Shred very finely half a pound of beef suet, and prepare the same weight of bread-crumbs, with the addition of one table-spoonful of flour, three ounces of currants, two oimces of sugar, a little lemon-peel and grated nutmeg, with three weU- beaten eggs to moisten. Roll the dough into balls, tie them separately in small cloths, and boU very quickly. Serve with melted butter, sweetened, poured over them. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or ten dumplings. Dumplings, Plain.—Take one pound of light dough, maae as for bread, and roll it into small round balls, as large as an egg. Drop them into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, first flattening them with the hand. Care should be taken to keep the water boiling, and to serve quickly when done, or they will be heavy. If the dough be mixed with milk, instead of water, the dumplings will be more delicate. They may be sent to table as an accompaniment to meat, or eaten with a sweet sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient for twelve dumplings. Dumplings, Steamed.—Get the ordi- nary dough at the baker's, and instead of boiling, steam over a saucepan of boiling water. The dumplings wUl take longer to steam than to boil, but they will present a better appearance, being smooth and dry on the outside, than boiled ones. There is besides the saving of an extra saucepan, for any article of food requiring fast boiling may be cooked underneath the steamed dumplings. Carp mu.st bo taken that the water does not stop boiling until they are done, and that they are served quickly. Meat giavy, or melted butter as a sauce. Time, half an )iom to steam. Dutch Apple Pie.—Pare, core, auq hUco tlu-eo pounds of up]jleH, and wash and dry half a pound of currants; lay part of the apples in a dish, and strew the currants, some sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon over. Take off the white part of the lemon, cut the pulp into thin slices, and spread them on the currants, add sugar and plenty of candied orange and citron-peel sliced, and fill up with the remainda of the apples. Cover with a light paste and bake in a rather quick oven for an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Dutch Cream.—Separate the whites from the yolks of three eggs, beat up the latter, and pour them gradually into a pint of new nulk. Set the milk in an enamelled saucepan, and add to it a pint of cream, five ounces of loaf sugar, and two drachms of vaniUa cut small. Stir the mixture over a slow firo for about ten minutes, and when thick enough, pour it through a coarse strainer. It must not boil. Sufficient for one quart or more. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Dutch Custard.—Break six eggs into a basin, add three ounces of fine sugar, and whisk thoroughly. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, or if preferred, only put a border round the edge. Mix a pint and a half of freshly- picked raspberries with three oimces of sugar, add it to the eggs, and pour the mixture into the pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, thirty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Dutch Flummery.—Pare the rind of a lemon very thin, and infuse it in a pint of water with half a pound of sugar. Set it on the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup well flavoured. Add two oimces of isinglass and stir till this also is melted, then throw in the strained juice of four lemons, a tumblerful of wine, and the yolks of eight eggs. Strain the mixture, put it into a jug, set the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the flummery thickens. Take it out of the water, allow it to cool, and then pour it into moulds. A wine-glassful of brandy may be added to the syrup, but in that case just so much less water will be required. Probable cost, exclusive of wine or brandy, Ss. Time, three or four minutes. Sufficient for a quart moidd. Dutch Loaf—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one pound of dried CTirrants, two table-spoonfuls of cinnamon, a pint of sponge, and as much flour as will form a dough. Make a sponge the evening before you wish to bake a cake, of a tea-cupful and a half of milk, and as much flour stirred into it as will form a thick batter, with a little salt, and one gill of good yeast. In the morning this sponge should be light. Then beat the butter and sugar together, add the cinnamon, currants, and sponge, and flour enough to form a dough. Butter a pan, and when the mixture is light, bake it in an oven about as hot as for bread.