CBE \ 163 ) Cream, Velvet.—Cut three or four sponge biacuits into thin slices, and spread on each a little apricot or greengage jam. Pour over them a glass of sherry, and the jmce of a lemon, and lot them stand to soak. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a cupful of water, put it with a pint of cream, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, strain it into a jug, and, when nearly cold, pour it from a good height upon the fruit and spongecake. When stiff, it is ready to serve. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Cream, Velvet (another way).—Prepare the jam and the spongecakes as in the last re- cipe. Simmer a pint and a half of new milk with the thin rind of a lemon, half an inch of stick cinnamon, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar, untn the flavour is thoroughly extracted. Strain the milk, and let it cool, then mix it with four eggs well beaten. Beat two dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot or corn-flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Mix the eggs and milk with them, and put all in a sauce- pan. Let the mixture simmer gently until it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour it over the fruit and spongecake, and let the dish stand in a cool place until wanted. Orange wine may be substituted for sherry. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a large dish. Cream, Whipped.—The white of one egg should be allowed for every pint of good, thick cream. If this cannot be procured, more eggs must be used. A good-looking dish may be made by boiling a quart of milk down to a pint, and mixing with it the whites of three eggs. Sweeten and flavour the cream before using it. For a plain whipped cream, this is done by rubbing the rind of a lemon upon three oimces of loaf sugar, and pounding it in a mortar, then mixing it with a glass of sherry or half a glass of brandy, the white of an egg beaten to a solid froth, and afterwards with the cream. Whip it to a froth with a scrupulously clean osier whisk. As it rises, take it ofiE by table-spoonfuls, and put it on a sieve to drain. It is a good plan to whip the cream the day before it is wanted, as it is so much firmer. It should he made in a cool place, and kept in the same. It may be served in a variety of ways, either in glasses, or in a glass dish, when it should be prettily garnished, or surrounded by spongecake, macaroons, or ratafias. A sponge- cake may be made in the shape of a hollow cylinder, and filled with as much whipped cream as it will hold. Its appearance is im- proved by colouring part of it before whipping it (see Colouring). Many persons dissolve a tea-spoonful of powdered gum arabic in a little orange-flower water, and add this to the cream. It keeps the froth firmer. Double cream may be simply whipped by whisking it with a wire whisk until it thickens. If beaten too long it will turn. Cream, Whipped, with Chocolate. —Make two ounces of best chocolate into a paste with a little boiling water. Mix it gradually and smoothly with one pint of cream sweetened, two tea-spoonfuls of dissolved gum arabic, if this is used {see the previous recipe); boil and cool, then add the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Half fill the glasses, and whip the remainder into froth. FiU them up, and keep in a cool place till wanted. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Cream, Whipped, with Coffee.— Mix a table-spoontul of a strong infusion of coffee in a pint of cream, sweeten it rather liberally, and whip it as in the last recipe. It will be of a light brown colour. If this is objected to, it may be obtained free from colour by roasting freshly two ounces of coffee- berries. When they are lightly browned, throw them at once into the cream, and let it stand for an hour before using. Strain, and whip as before. Serve in glasses. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Probable cost, 2s. Cream, Whipped, with Liqueur.— Proceed exactly as before, flavouring the cream before whipping it with any liqueur that may be wished. Double cream is the best for this purpose. Probable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the liqueur. Sufficient for eight or ten glasses. Cream, Whipped, with Vanilla.— BoU half a pod of vanilla in a cupful of new milk for twenty minutes. Strain, and add it to a pint of thick cream. Sweeten with two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and mix in the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Three or four drops of vanilla essence may be put with the cream instead of boiling the pod. Choose a cool place for work of this kind. Probable cost, about Is. lOd. Sufficient to fill eight or ten glasses. Cream of Tartar Cake. —Rub one ounce of butter into three pints of flour. Add three tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Dissolve a piece of saleratus the size of a small nut in a pint of milk. If this cannot conveniently be used a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in the milk will supply its place. Add the milk to the flour roll out the dough, cut it into cakes the size of a cup-plate, and about half an inch thick, and bake on tins in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for six or eight cakes. Cream of Tartar, To Drink.—Put an ounce of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of two lemons, and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar into a jug. Pour over them two quarts of boiling water. Drink the beverage when cold. It will prove cooling and wholesome. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost 3d. per quart. Sufficient for two quarts. ' Creme d'Orge.—Boil gently a cupful of pearl barley m one pint of milk and one pint of water until quite tender. Strain off the liquid (which, if sweetened and flavoured, wUl be a refreshing and wholesome drink for a child or sick person), and mix with the barley a pint of cream, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, two eggs well beaten, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated