CITS (178) CUT Custard Mould.—IVTako a rich custard (.w Custuvd a la Koine). When it has been thickmied, and nearly oold, mix with it half an oiini'o of isinglass dissolved in a little hot milk. Whip it well for ton minutes, then pour into an oiled mould, or into five or six smaller moulds, and send it to table, with dissolved red currant jolly poured over it. Time, twelve hours to stiffen. Probable cost, 'is. Gd. Sulli- cient for six or oiglit persons. Custard Pudding, Baked.—Take as many eggs as will when level cover the bottom of tho dish in which you intend to bako the custard. Break each one into a separate cup before it is mixed with the rest, to insure the quality of the eggs. Beat them a minute or two, but not too much, or the custard will be watery. Fill the dish with milk, sweeten liberally, and add a pinch of salt. Flavour with brandy, lemon, almond, vanilla, rose-water, orange-water, or any other flavour- ing. Stir all together. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the custard is set it is done enough. Time to bake about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d., for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for four or five persons. Custard Pudding, Boiled. — Make a pint of custard with half a pint of milk and three eggs. Flavour and sweeten it liberally, or the pudding will be insipid. Put ^t into a buttered basin which it will quite fill, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and tie it in a floured cloth, then steam it gently until done. Keep moving it about in the saucepan for the first few minutes, that it may be well mixed. It must not cease boUing after it is once put in. Serve with wine sauce or a little jam. A large pudding may be made with very little more expense by adding another egg, another half-pint of milk, and a table-spoonful of flour. Time, forty minutes to steam. Suffi- cient for four persons. Probable cost, 6d. Custard Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Mix a pint of milk, sweetened and flavoured, with two eggs slightly beaten. Put this into a saucepan and stir it gently till it thickens, but it must not boil. Serve it in a tureen or a glass dish, and, just before serving, add a little sugar and a table-spoonful of brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce is good with fruit tarts as well as sweet puddings. Time, about ten minutes to thicken. Sufficient for a moderate-sized pudding. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Custard Tartlets.—Line some patty pans with a good crust. Make a custard {see Custard, Baked), flavour it nicely, and three-parts fill the pans with the custard. Bake the tartlets in a gentle oven. Take them out, let them cool, and spread a little sugar icing over them. This is made by mixing the whites of two eggs with two ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Strew a little more sugar on tho top, and bako them in a gentle oven until the icing is crisp. If a richer tartlet is wanted, a little jam may be put under the custard. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake the tartlets, five or six minutes to harden tho icing. Probable cost, 2d. each. Allow one for each person. Custard and Syrup.—A pretty and inexpensive disli for a Children's Party.—Make some good custard, and mix it with a Utile isinglass {see Custard Mould. Tlie custard need not bo so rich as tlie one there given.) Oil some small cups of various sizes, fill them with the custard, and when cold and fina turn them out on a glass dish, putting the large ones in the middle and the smaller ones round them. Din- solve a little red currant, raspberry, or goose- berry jelly with a little wine, or make a little syrup of sugar and water, flavour it with lemon, and colour it with cochineal. When nearly cold, pour this over and amongst the custards. Lay round the inside of the dish a necklace of ratafias reposing on the outer edge of the syrup. Serve each child with a whole custard, a spoon- ful of syrup, and a couple of ratafias. Time, twelve hours to stift'en. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Custard-without Eggs.—Mix one large table-spoonful of ground rice or com flour with a little cold nulk. Flavour a pint of milk with any flavouring that may be preferred, sweeten it, and pour it boUing over the rice, stirring it all the time to prevent its getting into lumps. Return it to the saucepan, and boil it two or three minutes. "When cold, it may be used instead of custard for fruit tarts or stewed fruit. Time, throe minutes to boil. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one pint. Cutcharee Sauce, to serve with Kebobbed Meat. — Wash a quarter of a pound of split peas, and "boil them in a quart of water imtil quite soft. Pour off the water, and mash the peas, and mix with them one pound of boiled rice. Mince two onions very finely. Fry the onions in an ounce and a half of bucter until lightly browned, stir them with the rico and peas, season them with a dozen pounded carda- mom seeds, six pounded cloves, half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered mace, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Put a quart of good veal stock into a saucepan, add the rice, peas, and onions, and stew the whole gently until the rice is quite soft. Stir in three ounces of oiled butter before serving. Time, between two and three hours to boil the peas; forty minutes to stew the rice. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persona. Cutcharee (another way). — Boil one pound of rice as if for curry. When it is done enough, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of split peas which have been soaked and boiled till tender and pressed through a sieve. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, and, when hot, hy two large sliced onions in it. Mix these with the rice and peas, and add a good seasoning of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and black popper, with sufficient stock to moisten the whole, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is heated throughout. Serve it as hot as possible, with a little butter sauce. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cutlet Bat.—A cutlet bat is used to flatten cutlets 80 that they can be evenly and smoothij"