( 328 J fowl in tho hollow. Stew the rice thoroughly iintil tho moisturo is woll driod up. Tlion plaoo tho fowl or moat in a duop dish, ami Bmothor it witli tho rico. Havo roudy souio Buiall ouiona hoihid; luako a garnish of tlutso and hard-boilod eggs cut into quarters. AiTango blanched almonds, raisins, and a fow cloves with them. Time to hoil tho fowl, about an hour. Probable cost of fowl, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or fivo persons. Indian Pooloot.—Truss a fowl in tho ordinary way for boiling. Havo ready a quart of stock, and a pound of rico that has boon par- boiled for hvo minutes and then di'aiued from the water. Put the fowl with them into a stewpan over a slow fire. Add some onion- juico (pound half a dozen, and extract all their moisturo by squeezing them in a thin cloth), a table-spoonful of ground ginger tied in a muslin, and the juice of a lemon. When the fowl is sufficiently done, keep it warm, and dry the rice before the fire. Have ready three or four onions, sliced and nicely fried in butter. Cut up the fowl into neat pieces, and fry these in the same butter, then pile tho rice in the centre of a dish ; the joints of fowl on the top, and the sliced onions next the fowl lightly scattered. Strew stewed cardamoms and pep- percorns over all. Garnish with fried curled bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Time to boil fowl, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Pudding.—Beat up five eggs with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a cnmbled penny spongecake. Boil, but first grate, a cocoa-nut, putting aside all the brovm part, in a pint of milk. In ten minutes set the milk to cool, and when sufficiently cooled stir it into the eggs, then put all into a dish previously lined with puff paste, and bake from a half to three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Indian Padding (another way).—Butter a pudding-mould, and place on the inside pieces of preserved ginger, cut into nice tasteful forms. Lay slices of spongecake in a bowl, and pour over them a pi7;.t of boiling cream, into which, when well soaked,beat sugar enough to sweeten (say about two ounces), and half a dozen well- whisked eggs. Beat the mixture, and fill the buttered basin. The pudding may be steamed or boiled from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, or till firm. The sjTupfrom the gmger is usually served warmed up as sauce. Turn out the pudding, and send it hot to table, with the sauce poured over it. Probable cost, exclu- sive of ginger, 2s. 4d. The above ingredients are sufficient for four small sponge cakes. Indian Pudding (another way).—Line a pio-dish with some good puff paste, and put an edging of tho same round the rim. Place a layer of sliced apples at tho bottom, on the pa.ste, add a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Next whisk ten eggs, with half a pint of red wine, and at the same timo place three French rolls, cut in slices, to soak in a pint of rich cream ; a.ld this with the eggs to the in<?reflicnts already in the dish, and bake the pudding from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for aeven or eight persons. Indian Pudding, Baked.—Stir a quait of boiling milk into a pint of Indian corn uieal. Dissolve tour oiuices of butter by heating it ])efore the tiro, mix it first with a pint ol molasses, and then, very gradually, with th<; meal. Flavour witli nutmeg and grated lemon- rind or ciniuimon, and, as soon as the mixtiue has cooled, add, stirring briskly, six well-beaten eggs. Butter a dish, and Ijake at once. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Indian Pudding, Cheap.—Take half a pint of meal (let it be yellow—it istlie richest), and a quart of new milk, into wliich put, when boiling, a httle salt, nutmeg, and ginger. Stir it into the milk gradually, and keep beating it briskly all the time. When smooth, and the hoat gone off, beat up an egg with two ounces of pounded sugar, and add it, with two ounces of finely-shred suet, t() the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. Butter may be used in tho place of suet. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Salad.—Cut the meat of a lobster, or of a crab's claws, into pieces, and sHce a couple of cucumbers, with two chUies, a Spanish onion, if liked, and two rennets. The seeds of the fruit should be removed, and the whole seasoned with pepper and salt. Put into the bowl two spoonfuls of viaegar, a little cayenne, and three spoonfuls of the best Lucca- oil. Indian Sauce.-BoU together for five minutes, in a small quantity of stock, a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce, a bit of glaze the size of a walnut, a table-spoonful of curry- paste, and a pinch of cayenne. lilix with the above half a pint of tomato pulp, boil up, and serve. Indian Trifle.—Mix six ounces of rice flour with cold milk enough to make a thickish paste. Put a.quart of new milk into a sauce- pan with the rind of a small lemon, and four ounces of sugar to sweeten. Simmer gently, to extract the lemon flavour (do this over a slow fire, and remove the rind as soon as the flavour is gained); add the rice and stir till the mixture leaves the sides of the pan. A few drops of the essence of ratafia or vanilla is a great improve- ment. If for a glass dish, let the trifle cool a little before turning out, and when quite firm and cold, cut out some of the rice, and introduce boiled custard into the space. This has a very good effect, when some fancy de^^co is 8ho;^-n. Cut an ounce of sweet almonds (blanched) into spikes, and stick them thickly over the top. Garnish the dish with any preserved fruit or pieces of fruit jelly of a rich bright colour. Time, a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes to simmer milk, a few minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for ono trifle. Indian Veal CoUops.—Mix a small cupful of grated bread-crumbs with a dcssi^rt- spoonful, or rather more, of curry-powder, l^opper, and salt. Cut two pounds of veal from the fillet, and make collops of a round shape,