( 180 ) ■DATS. dned; plenty of butter or. lard should be used, and whisii thoy are brown on both eidoB they sliould bo hold high above tho fire for a few minutes, and covered. By this moans thoy will be done through. Drain thom from tlio fat, and keep thom hot. Put one oun^e of butter into a stewpan, dredge over it very gradually one oimce of ilour, and keep stirring till it browns, but it must not bum. Mix with it tho strainod gravy, and any trimmings thoro may be of the tongue, finely minced. Warm the round pieces of tongue in this, and put one on each veal cutlet. Serve the cutlets in a cir- cular fonii, add salt and popper to the sauce, if necessary, and put it in the middle. Serve as hot as possible. Time, about a quarter of an hour to fry the cutlets. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Cygnet, To Roast.—Truss this bird in tho same way as a goose. Make a stuffing of three pounds of beef, fat and lean together, chop it small with thi-ee boiled onions, a quarter of a pound of butter, a table-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of pepper, and a whole nutmeg grated. Pound it smoothly in a mortar, stuff the cygnet, and sew it up securely, to prevent the gravy escaping. It is generally cooked in the same way as haunch of venison, with a thick crust over it, but this is unnecessary. The gravy may be kept by covering it with paper from the outset, heating it gradually through, basting it patiently and thoroughly, and when it is nearly finished removing the paper, and bring- ing it near the fire to brown. Send it to table with a sauce made of equal quantities of strong beef gravy and port wine. Red currant jelly, hot and cold, should also be served with it. Cygnets should be roasted at or before Christ- mas, after which time they decidedly deteriorate in quality. They make a very handsome and delicious dish. Time to roast, from two to three hours. Probable cost, uncertain, the birds not being often offered for sale. Sufficient for eight or nine persons D Dabs —The dab is a small but excellent THE DAB. fish, caught mostly in rivers near the sea. The Thames furnishes a particularly good kind, which when fried or dressed in a buttered paper are very delicate. They are at their best during the latter i)ai-t of autumn. If soaked in Halt and water before being cooked they will be much improved in flavour, and the muddy taste got rid of. Send to table with a cut lemon. Dace.—This fish, like many of its class, scarcely reimys the trouble of cooking. It is best fried or broiled, and when »ea«onable, which it is from MidHummor to nearly the end of the year, is much enjoyed by those who angle for amusement's sake. It should be served with a sauce made of a little lemon juice and Cayenne pepper. THE DACE. Dagmar Fritters.—Make a batter of the consistency of cream with half a pound of flour, a little salt, and five weU-beaten eggs. Beat it for some minutes and add a little DMlk, powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful each of grated lemon-peel and powdered cinnamon; then beat again and throw in an ounce and a half of candied citron cut into small pieces. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, pour in the batter as soon as it is dissolved, and cook slowly, taking care not to let it stick to the pan. When it becomes solid and in some degree baked, take it out and place it on a dish ; put more lard or butter into the stewpan, cut the paste into strips about a finger's length, giving it a slit at each end to make it rise, which it will do very quickly, and lay them in the boiling fat. When done, serve on a napkin, or with a layer of sifted sugar. Time, twenty minutes. Dame Jane's Pudding.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of five with a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. Melt four oimces of butter—by standing the basin in hot water—with half a pint of cream. When cool stir in four ounces of flour, beat tiU smooth, and add a Uttle more cream and the beaten eggs. Beat all well together, and bake in buttered cups. A few well-washed currants may be laid in the bottoms of the cups if desired. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Pro- bable cost, 28. 8d. Sufficient for ten or twelve puddings. Damkorf Pudding.—Stick raisins inside a mould or basin, making any pattern with them that fancy may dictate (the basin must be thoroughly well buttered ana then floured, or the raisins will not adhere). Sprinkle finely- prepared crumbs from a French roll over the raisins, and then place thinly sliced citron uni- formly with the fruit. Pour a glass of brandy slowly over all, and another of sherry; do this