^^^^ cassell's cookery. using a fev pieces of dry paper one after the other, the whole of the gro.ime can be i-emoved. This mctliod of removing fat wUl be found to be particularly useful in preparing beef-tea for invalids. Beef-tea is often wanted in a hurry, and there is probably no time to allow it to got cold, yet it is of the gi-eatest importance for every particle of fat to bo removed, for nothing looks so bad as to see beef-tea by the bedside of a sick person covered with wafers of fat. The cook should consider such a circumstance as a positive disgrace. One very important point in reference to stock, soups, gravies, <fec,, is their preservation. Of course in cold frosty weather stock will keep almost for any time, but in hot weather stock is veiy apt to turn sour or high. Suppose you leave some stock in the larder over night a firm jelly, and the weather say is very warm; if in the morning when you come down you find it has altered in appearance, and instead of being a jelly it looks watery in some parts and lumpy in others, you may rest assured that the stock has turned bad. There is, however, one method by which stock can be preserved far longer than it otherwise would be, and that is by being boiled up afresh every day. In winter this is not necessary, but in summer should any stock, soup, or gravy be left, and a day pass without its being wanted, the cook should always put it in a saucepan, boil it up, and then place it in a fresh clean basin, and when cold, or nearly so, put it back in the larder or safe where it is generally kept. I say when it is nearly cold advisedly, for cooks should always avoid putting hot stock or soup in the larder where other things are kept. In the first place, the heat tends to raise the tem- perature of the larder, and still worse, the steam that rises from the hot stock has a tendency to make the larder foul, besides probably affecting the flavour of some of the other dishes. Before leaving the subject of stock there is one more kind to which we would refer, and that is fish stock. Few persons are aware how exceedingly nutritious a stock can be made from fish. For instance, fi-om a turbot. Very often the water in which a large turbot has been boiled when it gets cold is firm jelly. In preparing fish stock as a basis for fish soups of various kinds, it will be found best, if possible, to have half the fish from which the stock is made fresh-water fish and half sea-fish. In preparing the stock the greatest attention should be paid to the skimming. Fish contains a large quantity of albumen, which, being disengaged, coagulates and rises to the surface, carrying with it many of the little impurities of the fish; this shovdd be skimmed off as it rises. In straining off the stock after the fish has been removed, for in almost every instance of making fish stock the fish Is taken out and eaten separately, care should be taken not to empty the fish- iettle down to its dregs. After the stock has been strained off it should be put on again to boil partly away, an onion with three or four cloves in it and a little parsley being added, some salt, of course, having been put in with the fish. The stock should also have added to it an anchovy, pounded thoroughly in some butter; this should be added to the stock and dissolved in it; the anchoA-y having an extraordinary effect in bringing out the flavour. Should there be any oil, for fishes do not give off grease, it should be carefully taken off. If cod- fish is part of the fish used for making the stock, the cod's liver should be boiled separately, as that gives off a very large quantity of oil, cod-liver oil, in fact, which would have the effect of rendering the stock exceedingly disagreeable. Recollect, however, that fish stock, especially in hot weather, will not keep.