HAB HAB ( 308 ) be placod iit tho Lottom of the dish, or served as u guniioli. A fow haricot boiina (see Haricot Beans, to Boil) aro a gruat improvoment. Pro- bable cost, 28. lOd. Sufficient for live or six persons. Haricot Mutton (ti la Bourgooiso).— Divide throo pounds of tho neck or bruast of mutton into neat cutlots, and fry them in a little dripping till they aro lightly browned. Pour over them a pint and a halt' of boiling stock, or, failing this, water, and add a large onion, stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of parsley, and three or four peppercorns. Simmer gently for throe-quarters of an hour. Strain tlie gravy, put it back into tho saucepan, and with it a dozen turnips, cut into balls, and ah-eady stewed in a little gravy. Serve the turnips in the sanie dish with the mutton and the gravy. If preferred, potatoes may be sub- stituted for the turnips, as in Haricot, Nor- mandy, but they must be kept whole, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Pro- bable cost, 28. lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haricot, Normandy.—Take two pounds of veal from the fillet, cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch in thickness, and divide these into neat pieces three inches long by t\to inches broad. Beat them flat with a cutlet bat, season them with pepper and salt, dip them in flour, and fry them to a light brown in a little butter, and with three or four slices of lean ham. Lift them into a saucepan, pour over them a pint of boiling gravy, and add a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; di-aw the saucepan to the side, and put three pounds of new potatoes, or old ones cut in half, in the pan with them, and simmer again until the potatoes are sufficiently cooked. Serve as hot as possible, and send young green peas, French beans, or stewed carrots to table with them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haricot of Boebuck—Take four pounds of the neck of a roebuck, divide it into cutlets about an inch in thickness, and fry these in hot dripping till brightly browned. Draw them from the fat, put them into a clean sauce- pan, and pour over them as much boiling stock or water as wUl cover the meat. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and, when the gravy boilB, put with it two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, all cut into small pieces, and fried for three or four minutes in the fat which was used for the meat. Simmer gently for an hour. Season with pepper and salt, and thicken tho gravy with a little flour and butter. Just before serving, dissolve two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in the sauce, and add a quarter of a pint of port or claret. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. or Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haricots, Green, To Preserve.—In order to preserve these vcgotabloa for winter use, gather them on a dry day, and put them at once into wide-mouthed bottles, cork se- curely, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. Let them remain in the water for an hour after it boils, tie a bladder over the corks, and keep tho bottles in a dry place. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Harrogate Pudding (somothnes called Warwickshire Pudding).—Beat thnje ounces of fresh butter to a cream, work in with it three ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, three ounces of fine flour, lialf an ounce of candied lemon-peel, finely minced, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Stir these ingredients briskly together, and add a table-spoonful of thick cream, three eggs, well beaten, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Beat all togetlier for ten minutes, pour the mixture into well-buttered cups, and bake in a good oven. Soak the rind of a lemon in half a pint of water, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, until the flavour is ex- tracted. Let the water boil, and, when cool, add a table-spoonful of brandy, the juice of the lemon, and a few drops of cochineal. Turn the pud- dings out, pour the sauce round them, sift a Little sugar over, and serve inunediately. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Harrogate Punch.—Pour two table- spoonfuls of strained lemon-juice over four table-spoonfuls of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, mix them well together with a wooden spoon, and add twelve wine-glassfuls of cold water. "WTien the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add half a tumblerful of rum, and serve at once. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. exclusive of the nun. Sufficient for two or three persons. Harrogate Sauce (for Wild Fowl).— Mix a pinch of grated lemon-rind and a chopped shallot, and pour over them a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, add haK a tea-spoonful of powdered mace and three grains of caj-enne, and let them infuse for half an hour. Mix a table- spoonful of boiling water with the gravj' which comes from the fowl, put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients, and simmer for ten minutes. Add a wine-glassful of claret, strain, and serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Harslet, Pig's.—Wash the heart, lights, liver, and sweetbread in lukewarm water, and boil them gently for half an hour. Take them out, drain them, cut them into neat slices, season with a little pepper and salt, and dredge some flour over them. Fry them in a little hot dripping or lard, and with them half a poimd of streak}'- bacon, also sliced. Garnish with fried parsley. Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of i^epper. Stir this into three table-spoonfuls of boiling gviivy, add three table-spoonfuls of claret, and serve the sauce in a tureen. If preferred, the harslet may be stewed with half a pint of gravy and a shced onion. Time, ten minutes to fry the meat. Probable cost, 8d. or 1 Od. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hartshorn Jelly.—Boil half a ])ound of hartshorn shavintrs in four pints of water for