NOT ( 468 ) NOR Wilt, and as much flour as will muko u atifi batter. liavo roady a pan of i'aBt-boiliug wat(!r. Drop the batter iuto it, iu huuiU luuipa, and when boiled enough, Borvo immediately ; if allowed to stand, the dumplings will become hoavy. Tinio to boil, ton minutes. Trobable cost, Id. Sutlicient for four persons. Norfolk Dumplings (another way).— \Vht>n bread is nKKle at home, take a little of the dough just ready for the oven, make it up into small balls about the size of an orange, drop thom into fast-boiling water, and when done enough, drain thom, and servo imme- diately. Send' melted butter, sweetened and iiavoui-od with lemon juice, to table with them. The dumplings should be torn apart with two forks when they are eaten, or they will be heavy. To ascertain if they are done enough, stick a fork quickly into them; if it come out clear, they are sufficiently cooked. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. Suf- ficient, one pound of dough for about four people. Norfolk Punch.—Take the rind of six- teen fresh lemons and sixteen Seville oranges, pared so thinly as to be quite free from white. Put them into an earthenware jar, pour over thom two quarts of brandy, and let them in- fuse for forty-eight hours. Strain the brandy, mix with it a syrup made by boiling two pounds of loaf sugar with three quarts of water until quite clear. The syrup must have become cold before it is added to the brandy; add the strained and filtered juice of the oranges and lemons; mix thoroughly, put the liquor into a perfectly clean spirit-cask, or into a jar; let it remain for six weeks, when it may be bottled or not, as is most convenient. This punch will improve with keeping : some persons add a pint of new mUk before putting it into the cask. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a gallon and a half of punch. Norfolk Rice.—Pick off the white meat from a diied haddock. Tear it into shi-eds with two forks, and mix with it the whites of thjee hard-boiled eggs, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and an equal quantity of rice boiled as if for currj% and shaken over the fire with a little fresh butter until quite hot. Pile high on a hot dish; mix the yolks of the eggs with a little grated Parmesan, and strew the mixture over the rice and fish. Put the dish in the oven, or hold a hot iron shovel over it, to brown it slightly, and garnish with fried sippets. Serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to colour the rice. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Norfolk's Pudding, Duke of [see Duke of Norfolk's Pudding). Norman Haricot of Veal {see Veal, Norman Haricot of). Normandy Pippins.— Take half a pound of Normandy pippins. Let them soak for an hour or two in a pint and a half of water in which has been put an inch of whole ginger and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon. At the end of that time put them into a stowpan, with the thin rind of a largo hmon and two ounces of sugar, and let thom sinunor gently until they are lialf done, then add other two ounces of sugar. When quite tender, take out the pip]jin8, and place them in a glass dish: stmin the gmvy, 11avom- it if wished either with a glass of port or the strained juice of the lemon, pour it over the pippins, and place a small piece of lemon-rind upon each. Normandy pippins are delicious when oaten with Dovonshiro cream, and the appearance of the dish is improved if a small knob of cream is placed between the apples. Time to stow, al>out three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Normandy Pippins. Stewed (another way).—Take half a pound of inppinB. Soak them as in the last recipe ; or, if time is a con- sideration, put them into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover them, let them simmer very gently for twenty minutes, then drain the water from them, and let them get cold. Put them into a clean saucepan, with half a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, a Seville orange, a St. Michael's orange, an inch of stick cinnamon, two cloves, and a glass of sherry. Simmer verj' gently until the pippins are quite tender but im- broken. Take them out, put them in a glass dish, boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and strain it over the fruit. Devonshire cream, or a little ordinary thick cream, is a great im- provement to this dish. Serve cold. One or two drops of prepared cochineal will improve the colour. Time, about thi'ee hours to stew the pippins. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Northumberland's Pudding, Duke of (see Duke of Northumberland's Pudding). Norwegian Puddings.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a quarter of a pound of ground rice, one ounce of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, half a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. Add two well-whisked eggs, and beat all briskly together for four or five minutes. Butter some cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out the puddings when done enough, put them on a dish, and pour over them half a pint of good wine sauce, boiling hot. Sprinkle some powdered sugar over them, and serve at once. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nottingham Pudding.—Take half a dozen large apples of uniform size. Pare and core without breaking them, and fill the centre of each with a little butter, some moist sugar and grated nutmeg. Put them sid(T by side in a well-buttered pie-dish, and cover them with r light batter made as follows i—l^ILx six table spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with a littlr cold water, add three well-beaten eggs, a pincl of salt, and milk sufficient to make the balloi of the consistence of thick cream. This will be about three-quarters of a pint. Bake the