CHI CHI ( 131 ) Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. Allow one for each person. Chicken Pie.—Take two large chickens, aiid cut them into neat joints. Put the trim- mings, neck, and bones of the legs into a stewpan, ^th some pepper and salt, a blade of mace, an onion, a bimch of savoury herbs, and a Uttlc water, or stock. Let these simmer gently for one hour and a half. They are to make gravy. Line the edges of a pie-dish -with a good crust. Put a layer of chicken at the bottom, then a layer of ham cut in slices, and over that some sausage-meat or forcemeat, and some hard-boUed eggs cut in slices. Repeat until the dish is fuU. Pour over all a cupful of ■water or white stock, and place a cover on the top. Brush over it the yolk of an egg. Bake in a good oven. "WTien the pie has been in the oven about half an hour, place a piece of paper over the top to prevent the crust from being frizzled up before the meat is sufficiently cooked. When it is ready, raise the cover and pour in the gravy rnadp from the bones. Put a trussing-needle into the pie to ascertain -whether it is suffi- ciently cooked. If it goes through easily, take the pie out. A pie made -with two chickens, sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 6s. Chicken I*ie (a good dish for picnics, breakfast, or luncheon).—Prepare the chicken and make the gra-vy as in the preceding recipe; make a forcemeat by pounding the liver in a mortar, -with four ounces of lean ham, four ounces of tongue, two ounces of butter, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Season the mixture with a little salt and cayenne, and make it into balls. Place a layer of chicken at the bottom of a deep dish, and over this a layer of ham. Place the forcemeat balls amongst the pieces of meat. Strew over them some chopped mushrooms or truffles, pour in the gra-v^', and cover the dish with good puff paste. The edges must have been pre-viously lined -with puff paste. When the pie is about half baked, cover it with paper to prevent its becoming too bro-wn. Sausage-meat may be substituted for the forcemeat, if preferred. A few hard-boUed eggs are by many considered an improvement. . Time to bake, one and a half or two hours. Probable cost, 7s. or 8s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Chicken, Potted.—Take the meat from a cold roast chicken, remove the gristle and skin, and weigh it after it is picked. To every pound of chicken-meat allow a quarter of a pound of ham, a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, four grains of cayenne, one tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Pound these thoroughly in a mortar. Press the paste into small jars, and cover it -with clarified butter about a quarter of an inch In thickness. Keep it in a dry place. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. A little of it should be spread on bread and butter for each person. Chicken Rissoles.—Pick the flesh from a cold chicken, mince it finely, and to every quarter of a pound of meat put one oimce of lean ham, one ounce of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a small onion, boiled and chopped, »' piece of clarified butter about the siiio of a ■walnut, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and two or three grates^ of a. nutmeg. Mix these thoroughly, then moisten tlio mixture -with a little stiff white sauce. If this is not at hand, it may easily be made by boiling the trimmings of the chicken -with suit- able seasonings and a little gelatine. Let th& mixture get cold, and form it into balls. Make some good pastry, and roU it out tliinly. Cover the balls with it, and fry them in hot fat tiU they are a light brown, drain them thoroughly from, the fat, and serve them piled high on a napkin^ with fned parsley garnishing the dish. Timo to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclu- sive of the cold chicken. Allow two for each person. Chicken, Roast.—Young spring chicten.s should be very carefully prepared for roasting, as the flesh is so tender that it will easily tear. They require no stuffing. A little butter placed inside is an improvement. They shoiild be firmly trussed like a fowl, slightly floured, put down to a clear fire, and basted constantly until ready. Bread sauce, mushroom, egg, or chestnut sauce may aU be served -with roast chicken. If the fire is too fierce a piece of oiled paper may be fastened over the breast of the bird -whilst it is down. Time to roast, half an. hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Chicken, Roast (another way.)—If it it, -wished to stuff the chicken, a forcemeat may be made by mincing the liver and an equal, quantity of bacon together, then adding a small pinch of finely-minced lemon-rind, a. table-spoonful of grated bread-crumbs, a des- sert-spoonful of chopped parsley, three or four chives, cut small, and a little pepper. The- chicken should then be covered with slices of bacon, -with a piece of buttered paper fastened over them. If it is preferred, a couple of boned ancho-^des may be substituted for the lemon- rind in the stuffing. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken Salad^ Plain.—Take a -well- boiled fowl, and cut it into neat, small pieces. Make a pickle of equal parts of oil, -vinegar,, ■svith a little fincly-minced onion, salt, arid, pepper, and let the pieces lie in this t-wo or three hours, turning them occasionally that the chicken may become impregnated -with the- flavour of the pickle. Prepare some lettuce; if it is young, the little heads may be cut into halves; if large, the hearts may be cut Icngth- -ways and di-vidcd; but especial care should be taken in making salads that the lettuce is per- fectly dry. It is a good i)lan to -wash it some hours before it is needed, and hang it in a -wire basket in an airy situation. If after this it is not quite free from moisture, two or three leaves at a time should be put into a clean dry towel, and shaken gently about. A salad is never properly made unless attention is paid to this point, as the dressing, instead of mixing with the salad, -will be all at the bottom of the boAvl. IMakc a sauce as in the following recipe. Arrange the chicken and salad in the dish as prettily as you can, and