( 606 ) PAB Parsley, Fried (for garnishing).—Wash and dry tho parsley thoroughly, by swinging it backwards and forwards in a cloth. Put it into hot fat, and let it remain until it is crisp ; take it out immediately, and di-ain it before the fire. If the parsley is "allowed to remain in the fat one moment after it is crisp it will be ,;poilt. Parsley is best fried in a frying-basket. If this is not at hand, tho parsley should bo taken out of tho fat with a slice. Parsley Fritters, Bread and {see Bread and Parsley Fritters). Parsley Juice, for Colouring Sauces, &C.—Pick a quantity of young parsley-leaves from the stalks, wash and dry them well, and pound them in a mortar. Press the juice from them into a jar, which place in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it simmer gently until it is warm, when it is ready for use. The juice of spinach-leaves is used as well as that of parsley for colouring. It is prepared in the same way. Time, three or four minutes to simmer the juice. Parsley Sauce.—The excellence of this sauce depends greatly upon the parsley-leaves being chopped very small. Take a handful of fi-esh parsley, if procurable. "Wash it, pick off the leaves, and boil them quickly in salt and water for three minutes. Drain them well, and mince them as finely as possible, then stir them into half a pint of well-made melted butter or white sauce, and serve immediately. If pre- ferred, the parsley may be boiled for ten minutes, then chopped small, bruised, put into a tureen, and the sauce poured over it. A little cold butter, broken into small pieces, should then be stirred into the hot sauce until it is melted, and the sauce served immediately. It is always best to send parsley sauce to table in a tureen instead of pouring it over the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. {See also Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.) Parsley Sauce, Imitation. — When parsley cannot be procured, a good imitation of it may be made by t}nng a tea-spoonful of parsley-seed in a little muslin, and boiling it with the water of which the sauce is to be made tiU it is nicely flavoured. A few spinach- leaves boiled, chopped, and stirred into the sauce wiU give tho appearance of parsley, as the seed wiU impart its flavour. Time, a few minutes to boil the seed. Parsley (when and how to Preserve it for Winter use),—Gather the sprigs of parsley in May, June, and July. Wash them well, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water sHghtly salted. Let them boil for two minutes, then take them out, drain and dry them before the fire as quickly as possible, put them in a tin box, and store them in a dry place. Before using the parsley, soak it in warm water for a few minutes to freshen it. Parsnip.—This plant is a native of Britain, It contains a considerable quantity of sugar, and is disliked by some on accotmt of its pecu- liarly sweet taHt(!. It is a frequent accompani- niout to salt fish during Lent. In .Scotland parsnips and potatoes are beaten together, butter being added; it is a dish of which children are pai-ticularly fond. The parsnip is less digestible than the potato, on account of the woody fibre which it contains. The potato is superior to it in possessing more sugar, starch, and nutritious matter. On the introduction, therefore, of potatoes into the Old World, parsnips fell rather into the background. The common parsnip is a cultivated variety of the wild parsnip. It contains less water and more nutritive matter, as well as more woody fibre and less sugar, than either turnips or carrots. One hundred parts of parsnips contain :— Water 82-039 Albumen and casein . . . 1-215 Sugar 2-882 Starch 3-507 Fat . . . . : . 0-546 Gum 0-748 Woody fibre 8-022 Mineral matter . . . . 1-041 Or, Water ..... 82-0 Flesh and force producers . . 1-2 Force producers . . . . 15-8 Mineral matter . . . . 1.0 The parsnip is chiefly used in winter. It is improved rather than the reverse by frost; but is apt to become rusti/ if allowed to remain too long in the ground. After it has begun to grow again in spring it exhibits acrid qualities. The root of the parsnip is in demand in the North of Ireland for making a fermented liquor, with yeast and hops, and both in Great Britain and Ii-eland for making parsnip wine {see Parsnip Wine), which is held to resemble malmsey wine. Parsnips may be dressed in the same way as carrots, which they very much resemble. When boiled they are generally served with boiled meat, or boiled salt fish, or when fried, with roast mutton. If young, they require only to be washed and scraped before they are boiled, all blemishes being of course removed. If old and large, the skin must be pared off and the roots cut into quarters. Carrots and parsnips are often sent to table together. It should be remembered that parsnips are more quickly boiled than carrots. Parsnip Cake.—Boil two or three parsnips imtil they are tender enough to mash, then press them through a colander with the back of a wooden spoon, and carefully remove any fibrous stringy pieces there may be. Mix a tea-cupful of the mashed parsnip with a quart of hot milk, add a tea-spoonful of salt, four ounces of fresh butter, half a pint of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter. Put the bowl which contains the mixture in a warm place, cover it with a cloth, and leave it to rise. When it has risen to twice its original size, knead some more flour into it, and let it rise again; make it into small round cakes a quarter of an inch thick, and place these on buttered tins. Let them stand before the fire a few minutes, and bake them in a hot oven. These cjikes should be eaten hot. They do not taste of the parsnips. Time, some hours to rise; about twenty minutes to bake. I'robable cost]