GOO ( 263 ) GOO three or four folds of buttered paper before being put into the oven. This pie, though sometimes talked of, is not often made. Time to bake, four hours. Goose Pudding, or Savoury Pud- ding (a Yorksliiro recipe).—Pour as much boiling milk over a poimd of stale bread as will just cover it. Let it soak until soft, then beat it with a fork, and take out any lumps that will not soften. Add six ounces of beef suet, finely shred, four large onions, boiled and chopped, a dessert-spoonftxl of powdered sage, and the same of marjoram and thyme, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of oatmeal, and three eggs well beaten. Spread the mixture in a buttered or greased dripping- tin, about three-quarters of an inch in thick- ness. Put it in the oven for half an hour, to cook the under-part, then place it under the goose, before the £re, and let the gravy drip on it. It must be well browned in every part. Cut it into squares, and serve it at the same time as the goose. This pudding may also be served with roast pork. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Goose, Roast.—A roast goose is generally fiUed with sage-and-onion stuffing {see Goose Stuffing, Sage-and-onion). The way in which this is made must depend upon the taste of those who have to eat it. If a strong flavour of onion is Uked, the onions should be chopped raw. If this is not the case, they should be boUed in one, two, or three waters, and mixed with a smaller or larger proportion of bread- crumbs. It should be remembered, when bread- crumbs are used, room should be allowed for swelling. Truss the goose firmly, tie the open- ings securely, put it down to a clear, brisk fire, and baste it plentifully until done enough. A goose is both unwholesome and unpalatable if insufficiently cooked. Take it up, remove the skewers and fastenings, pour a little gravy into it {see Goose, Bonne Bouche for), and send some good gravy {see Goose Gravy), and either apple or tomato sauce to table with it. Garnish with lemon. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours and a half. Probable cost of goose, 6s. {See Goose Stuffing, To Deprive of Offensive Odour.) Goose, Roast, To Carve.—Begin by turning the neck end of the goose towards you, and cutting the whole breast in long slices, from aOOSE, BOAST, TO CARVE. one wing to another {see the lines a b) . To take off the leg, insert the fork in the small end of the bone, pressing it to the bodj', put the knife in at A, turn the leg back, and if the bird be young, it will easQy come away; if old, we will not answer for it. To take off the wing, insert the fork in the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body ; put the knife in at B, and divide the joint. When the leg and wing are oflE one side, attack those on the other; but, except when the company is very large, it is seldom necessary to cut up the whole goose. The back and lower side bones, as well as the two side bones by the wing, may be cut off; but the best pieces of a goose are the breast, and the thighs, after being separated from the drumstick. Serve a little of the seasoning from the inside, by making a circular slice in the apron at c. Should there be no- stuffing, a glass of wine, a little orange-gravy or vinegar may be poured into the body of the goose, at the opening made in the apron by the carver for this purpose. Goose Soup.—When a goose is boiled, a good soup may be made of the liquid, but it is well to use stock, instead of water, in which to boil it. Put the giblets into the saucepan, together with half a pound of lean ham, an onion, a carrot, and a head of celery, or half a drachm of pounded celery-seed. Skim it well and simmer gently, until the goose is sufficiently cooked. Take up the goose and the giblets, the first of which may be served with onion sauce, and the last made into a pie. Strain the soup, season it with half a drachm of cayenne, and add half a tumblerful of sherry or Madeira- No salt wiU be required if the ham has beea used. Time to boil, tw^o hours. Sufficient for two quarts of soup. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the meat and wine. Goose Stuffing, Apple.—Pare, core, and cut into small pieces some good baking apples. Fill the goose as full as it will hold with these, fasten the openings securely, and roast. When this stuffing is used, apple sauce may be dispensed with. In Germany, a few almonds, blanched and sliced, or a few- currants, are sometimes mixed with the apples. Goose Stuffing, Chestnut.—Take the outer skin from about two dozen fine, sound chestnuts, and throw them into boiling water. Let them simmer a minute or two over the fire, when they may be blanched like almonds. Put them into a saucepan with as much stock as wiU cover them, let them stew gently until soft, then drain them; mix with them two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, a parboiled onion, chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Put this stuffing into the goose. Fasten the ends securely, and roast before a clear fire. Time, twenty minutes to- simmer the chestnuts. Sufficient for a goose. Goose Stuffing, Potato. — Take two pounds of good sound potatoes, peel, and wash them, and cut them into small pieces, with an onion, finely minced. Put them into a stew- pan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut.. Cover the pan closely, and shake it about, that the potatoes may not stick to the bottom, and when they are partly cooked, but not tender, mix with them the liver of the goose, chopped smalL