ARR ( 81 ) Arrowroot Cream—Mix a table-spoon- ful of arrowroot with two of cold water. Boil a pint and a half of new milk with a bay- leaf, or the thin rind of a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Strain it, and pour it, boiling, upon the arrowroot; stir it fre- quently till it is cold, then pour it into a glass dish. This may be served with tarts or stewed fruits. Time to boil, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. for a pint and a half of cream. Arrowroot Drops—Put into a well- oiled saucepan a large cupful of arrowroot which has been previously rolled to crush the lumps, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a table-spoonfnl of pounded sugar, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-peel, and a well-beaten egg, and boil them together, stirring briskly all the time imtil they are light and thick. Then drop them on a weU-buttered tin in pieces about the size of a shilling, and bake in a good oven. They should look white and rather rough. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Arrowroot Fritters.—Put a pint of •new milk and a table-spoonful of sugar into a saucepan with three or four laurel-leaves. When it boils, stir into it a quarter of a pound of arrowroot which has been smoothly mixed with a little cold water; then add the beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir it constantly until it is thick and smooth; then pour it into a well- oiled pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. AUow the mixture to cool; then stamp it out in rounds; dip them in egg and bread-crumbs; fry them in hot lard, and heap them in a dish. Serve with jam sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil; ten minutes to bake; five minutes to fry. SujSicient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is., without the jam. Arrowroot Jelly.—Soak the thin rind of a lemon and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar in a cupful of cold water. Let it remain four hours; then strain the liquid, and mix it with three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, a table- spoonful of brandy, the juice of four lemons, and three drops of almond flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir it. until it is thick. Put it into a damp mould, or let it get cold; then 8er\'e it in glasses. Time to boU, five minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a haK-pint mould. Arrowroot Jelly (another way).—Mix two table-spoonfuls of arro\sToot with a little water, and pour upon the paste a pint of boUing water and white wine sweetened and flavoured with almond or lemon flavouring. Stir it weU; then put it again on the fire^ still continuing to stir it until it is quite thick. Pour it into a mould which has been soaked in cold water; > turn it out the next day, and serve it with cream-custard or jam. Time to boU with the arrowroot, three or four minutes. Sufficient for a pint mould. Probable cost, 4d., without the wine and cream, &c. Arrowroot, Nourishing, fok Invalids ANT) Sicx Children.—Boil half an ounce of hartshorn shavings and a little lemon-rind in a pint of water for fifteen minutes; strain, and pour the liquid upon two dessert-spoonfuls of arrowroot which has been previously mixed with a little cold water. Stir briskly, and boil for a few minutes; then add a tea-spoonful of sugar and a glass of wine. Probable cost, 3d. per pint, without the wine. Sufficient for one person. Time to boil the shavings, a quarter of an hour. Arrowroot Potato Flour.—Peel some fine mealy potatoes, and grate them into a pan filled with cold water. Let it settle, then strain through a fine sieve; pour on fi-esh water, stir it round, and let it settle again. Repeat this five or six times, until the pow-der is quite white and the water clear. Spread the sedi- ment upon a dish, and put it into a cool oven to dry, stirring it frequently. Sift it, and put it into bottles, which must bo kept well corked. Time, several hours. Arrowroot Pudding.—Mix two dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot with half a cupful of milk. Place a pint and a half of milk in a saucepan with the grated rind of half a lemon and a table-spoonful of sugar. Boil it, and pour it upon the arrowroot. Stir it well, and when cool, add three well-beaten eggs and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Line the edges of a well-buttered pie-dish with puflt paste, spread a layer of preserved fruit at the bottom, then pour in the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Arrowroot Pudding, Plain.—5Iix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little water. Put into a saucepan a pint and a half of milk, with a little grated nutmeg and a table- spoonful of sugar. "When it boils, pour it upon the arrowroot, stirring it well, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Pour it into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour or more. This is a wholesome pudding for the nursery. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 6d. Arrowroot Pudding, Steamed.— Mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a cupful of milt. Flavour a pint and a half of milk with cinnamon, lemon, orange, almonds, or whatever may be preferred ; put it on the fire, and when it boils, pour it upon the arrowroot. Stir well, and when it is cool add three well- beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the same of brandy. Put it into a well-buttered mould, cover it over, and steam it. When ready to serve, turn out, and put jam round it in the dish. Time to steam, one hour and a haH. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Arrowroot Sauce.—^lix a dessert-spoon- ful of arrowroot with half a pint of water. Put it into a saucepan and let it boU gently, stirring all the time. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. A table-spoonful of brandy wiU be an improvement. This sauce is suitable for rice, bread, or plum pudding. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons.