GOO GOO ( 265 ) taste. Time, five or ten minutes after the water has boiled. Probable cost of gooseberries, 3d. per quart. Gooseberries, Green, To Preserve, as Hops.—rii^k some of the largest green gooseberries that can be got, and wliiist picking them cut them into quarters a little way down, isci-ape out the seeds, and put the quartered gooseberries into a preserving-pan, with an •equal weight of loaf sugar, and a cupful of water, and boil them imtU they look clear. Put them into jars, cover them secmely, and keep in a cool, dry place. The pulp may be boiled with sugar for gooseberry fool or jam. "Time to boil, about half an hoiu-. Gooseberries, Green, To Preserve Whole.—Pick the tops and stalks from some large green goosebemes, put them on the fire, in a saucepan of cold water, and let them simmer gently until they are tender, but un- broken. Throw them into cold water, and for every thi-ee-quarters of a pound of fruit make .a syrup with a pound of loaf sugar and a pint of water. Let the syrup grow cold, put it again into a saucepan, and lift the goose- bemes gently into it. Let them boil until the .sugar has got into them, then take them out carefully, and the next day drain the syrup from them, and boil it until smooth. In order to ascertain when this degree is reached, dip .the finger and thumb into cold water, and take a little sjTup between them. If, when they ai-e opened, a strong thi-ead forms, let the gooseberries boil once more until the synip is thick. Let them cool, put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, cover securely, and keep in a cool dry place. Gooseberry and Rice Pudding.-- i Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice. Put it into a cloth, which has been dipped in hot water and floured, and lay on it a pint and a half of green gooseberries, picked and washed. Tie the cloth securely, lca^ing plenty of room for the rice to swell, and boil for an hour and ^ half. Sen-e it with sweet sauce. Probable j <;ost for this quantity, 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. ! Gooseberry Cakes.—Put some green j .gooseberries in a jar, and place it in a sauce- ' pan of boiling water. Simmer until the fruit ' is soft, then press it through a sieve, and mix •one pound of powdered sugar, and the whites of : two eggs, beaten to a froth, with every pound , of pulp. Beat thoroughly. Put the mixture, in small round cakes, upon sheets of paper, i Tlace these on dishes before the fire, and when sufficiently dry, store them in tin boxes, and lieep them in a dry place. Time, about one hour to simmer the gooseberries. Gooseberry Champagne. — Choose gooseberries which, when fiilly ripe, have little flavour. The green Bath are the best. Take forty pounds of soimd, large, hard ben-ies, re- move the tops and stfilks, and put them into a fifteen-gallon tub. Bruise them sufficiently to burst the bei-ries without breaking the seeds, -and pour over them four gallons of lukewarm water. Stir, and squeeze them in the hands ■until both the juice and pulp are thoroughly J* separated from the seeds and skins, then leave them until the next day, when the liquid should be drawn off, and the fruit pressed through a coarse sieve, with another gallon of water, to extract as much of the goodness of the fruit as possible. Dissolve thirty pounds of loaf sugar in the juice, and, with water, make the liquid up to eleven gallons. Leave it in the tub, add three ounces of crude tartar, cover it with a blanket, and let the temperature of the place where it is set be from 60° to 60° Fahi-enhcit. Let it remain for a day or two, then draw it off into a ten-gallon cask, and keep it well tilled near the bunghole, by i)our- ing ixL the extra gallon as the liquid subsides. When the hissing noise ceases, di-ive in the bung, and bore a hole by its side, into which a vent-peg must be driven, and this must be loosened every two or thi-ee days, to prevent the cask bm-sting. When all danger of this appears to* be over, fasten in the peg tightly. Put the cask in a cool cellar, and let it remain untn the end of December. Pack it from its lees into a fi-esh cask, and in a month it will, in all probability, be clear enough for bottling. If necessary, it may be fined, by adding an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a bottle of the wine. It should be bottled when the goosebcny- bushes begin to blossom, and its briskness depends veiy much upon its being bottled at the right time. Taste the wine before rack- ing it into a fresh cask, and if it be too sweet, renew the fermentation, either by stirring up the lees or roUing the cask. Wine should be bottled in clear-, settled weather, and the sooner it is bottled after fining, the blighter it will be. Time, twenty-four hours to stand before strain- ing ; ten or twelve days to fennent. Sufficient for ten gallons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per gallon. Gooseberry Charlotte.—Pick the tops and stalks from a pound and a half of goose- berries; wash and drain them, and boil them with a pound and a haK of loaf sugar, until reduced to a pulji. Press them through a coarse sieve. Take half a dozen sponge-bis- cuits, cut them into thin slices, and line a plain round mould with them. Pour in the fruit, cover_ it with' slices of spongecake, place a ■ cover and a weight on the top, and let it re- main until well set. Turn it out before serving, and pour some good custard or nicely-flavoured cream round it. Thin slices of bread may be used instead of sponge-biscuit. Time, ten or twelve houi'S to set properly. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Gooseberry Cheese.—Pick the tops and stallcs from some rough red gooseberries, fully ripe. Bake them in a moderate oven till soft, then pulp them thi-ough a fine sieve. Let them boU very gently, and add, a little at a time, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar to every pound of fruit-pulp. BoU, skim, and stir if for half an hour; then pom- it on small plates, and dry it before the fire, or in a cool oven. When dry, keep the cheese between folds of white paper. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost of goosebeiries, 3d. per poimd. Gooseberry Cream.—Pick the stalks and tops from about two pounds of gi'een