t MUT ( 447 ) MUT tight compact shape, which must bo secured with a slriug. Koast it until half done, or bake it, as most convfuu-nt, but only brown it slightly, and reniovo the fat from the gravy when cold. Have ready a gravy made fiom Ooiling the bones, adding to "it that which dripped ; put the meat and gravy into a ste^vpan, and stew imtil tender. A few mushrooms or half a glassful of mushroom ketchup may be added while stew- ing: when done, put the meat unrolled on a dish ; add a table-spoonful of baked flour, and pour the gravy over, salted to taste, and boiled. A loin of mutton boned, rolled, then roasted in the usual way is an e.xccUent joint. Time to bake, an hour and a half; to stow and bake, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Loin of, Stewed with Pickles.—Having roasted a loin of mutton imtU nearly done, cut off from three to fom- pounds of the chump end, and pare the fat to ■within an eighth of an inch. Put three large mushrooms into a stewpan with half a pint of mutton gravy, and stew them for a few minutes; then put in the meat, arid add a tea-spoonful of soy, two of chutney, a table-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and a quarter of a pint or more of mixed pickles; add of salt and cayenne about half a grain. While stewing, keep the mutton well moistened with the grsLvy; remove the fat before serving, and send to table very hot. Time, an hour and half to stew underdone mutton. Sufficient for four persons. Mutton, Minced.—Put a lump of butter into a stewpan; when it has melted dredge in flour enough to absorb the butter, and keep it well stirred over a slow fire until of a light brown colour; add haK a pound of mutton from a roast leg, minced finely, and have ready a cup of good broth made fiom the bone, with the addition of a bit of well-flavoured ham, and pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix well, and simmer gently for half an hour, but do not boil. 'Re- move from the fire, and stir in a bit of anchovy butter the size of a walnut. Serve with a garnish of toasted sippets or a border of endive boiled as follows:—Pick the yellowish-white leaves from the stalk, and boU them in plenty of salted water, then throw them into cold; drain, press, and chop. Make hot in a clean stewpan with a little good white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, add the yolk of an egg or two, and serve round the mutton. Mutton, Minced (another way).—Take the remains of a roast leg or loin without fat, mince it very finely, put it into a stCAvpan with a breakfast-cupful of gravy drawn from the roast to a pound and a half of meat, and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; add a table-spoonful of browned flour, and let the mince heat gradually, but do not let it boU. In twenty minutes sei-ve very hot with poached eggs round the dish; or the mince may be made more savoury by the addition of a dessert- spoonful oi walnut ketchup, and the same of walnut pickle, Oude sauce, &c., but less graw will be required. Minced mutton may be served with a border of mawironi, first boiled tender in Kilted water, and th(!n stowed after draining in nww milk. Four ounr'iis of macaroni will require one quart of water, and yrhen drained from it half a pint of milk will be suflicient; add to the milk an ounce of butter, ihe liaif of a small tea. spoonful of made mustai-d, to which a quarter of a grain of cayenne has been added, and a little salt. Time, half an hour to boil niacaronl in water; quarter of an hour in milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton,'Minced and Baked.—Take slices of mutton (the meat from a cold roast leg is best) without much fat, mince them, and add a tea-spoonful of savomy herbs, a blade of pounded mace, two shred shallots or an onion chopped very fine, and some of the meat-gravy to moisten, with a very little flour to thicken the gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of mashed potatoes and the minced mutton; put the potatoes at the bottom of the dish, and finish the top in the same way. Time, half an hour to bake. Sufficient, a pound and a haU' of mutton for four or five persons. Mutton, Neck of, Boiled. — Shorten the ribs and saw ofE the chine-bone of a neck of mutton, or from three to four pounds of the best end; to look well it should not exceed five inches in length. Pare off the fat that is in excess of what may be eaten, and boil slowly in plenty of water slightly salted ; skim care- fully, and remove the fat from the surface. The meat may be served plain, with caper or parsley sauce, and a garnish of boiled mashed turnips and carrots cut into thin strips, placed alter- nately round the dish. Four middle-sized tm-nips and three carrots may be boiled with the mutton. Time, a fuU quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton, Neck of, Browned.—Boil as in preceding recipe, but not quite so long; finish by cooking the mutton before the fire, first cover- ing it with a mixture of fine bread-crumbs, pars- ley, and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, cemented together with the beaten yolk of one or more eggs. When nicely browned, serve with half a pint of gravy thickened with a dessert-spoonful of browned fiour, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four pounds for six or seven persons. Mutton, Neck of. Roasted.—We have already recommendea that the rib-bones of this joint should be shortened, to give a nice appearance to cutlets, and we also, for economy's sake, and to give a nice squareness to the piece of meat, advise the purchaser to get it done, if possible, by the. butcher. The meat of the neck from a well-fed sheep we think superior to that of the loin. Take off any excess of fat, and roast precisely according to directions given for roast loin {see Mutton, Loin of, Eoasted), always remembering that the fire for cooking mutton should be clear and brisk, but not fierce. A little salt rubbed over the joint when it is ready to bo put to the fire, a liberal basting, and some flour dredged over, to froth it nicely, are all that is wanted to satisfy a good appetite. Serve with plain