( 339 ) water; keep stirring until it thickens, but do not let it boil; let it cool, then pour it tlirough muslin into moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and let it remain until stiflE. Gelatine may be used instead of isinglass if preferred. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the mixture. Probable cost, Is. 8d., exclusive of the -wine, if made with iainglass; Is., if made with gelatine. Sufficient for a quart mould. Jejune Pudding.—Take the weight of four eggs with their shells on in sugar, butter, and flour; beat the butter to a cream, and mix with it the powdered sugar, the thin rind of a fresh lemon finely minced, the eggs thoroughly whisked, and, last of aU, the flour; beat all thoroughly until quite light. This pudding may be either baked or boiled. If baked, half fill some smaU moulds, well buttered, with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out before serving. If boiled, pour the mixture into a well-buttered plain roimd mould, put a buttered paper over the top, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for an hour and a half. A syrup flavoured with lemon, and sHghtly coloured with cochineal, may be poured into the dish with the pudding. Time, half an hour ,to bake the pudding. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly, General Observations on.— Jelly is most frequently made from calf's-foot stock, isinglass, or gelatine. When made from the first of these, it is very wholesome and nutri- tious, and is especially suited for convalescents. When isinglass and gelatine are used, many agreeable and pleasing dishes may be made for the table, but these should never be ofiPered to an invalid. As the jeUy which is sold by con- fectioners is almost always made of isinglass, calf's-foot jelly should, if possible, be made at home. Careful attention given to the jiirec- tions given under the heading, Calf's-foot Jelly, will insure a perfectly transparent jelly, and for this result once straining will generally be found sufficient, though, of cotirse, & necessary, it must be strained more than once. Jellies.—Recipes for ing jcUies will be found headings :— Ale or Porter Almoxd Apple Apple Calf's-foot Apple Juice for Jelly Apples, Red, with Jelly Apricot Apricots in White Jelly Apricots Preserved in Jelly Arrowroot AshBERRY Aspic Barherry Black Currant Bread Cabbage preparing the follow- under their respective Calf's-poot Calf's-foot, Apple Calf's-foot, Four- fruit Calf's-foot, Lemon Calf's-foot, IVIaras- OHINO Calf's-foot, Orange Calf' 8-foot,Stock for Coffee Cow-heel Craii Apples, Siberian Cranberry Cranberry and Ground Rice CURA^OA Currant, Black Currant, Red Currant, White Damson Fish, Jelly for Four-fruit Fowl Jelly, in Cakes French Fruit, Isinglass Gelatine Gloucester Gooseberry Gooseberry, Green Grape Grape, Isinglass Gravy, Jelly for GuAVA, Imitation Hartshorn Iceland Moss Irish Moss Isinglass and Gela- tine Isinglass, Constantia Isinglass, Cranberry Isinglass, Currant AND Raspberry Isinglass, Invalids' Isinglass, Lemon Isinglass, Orange Isinglass, Straw- berry Italian Ivory Ivory Dust Jelly, Four-fruit Lemon Lemons filled with Jelly Lemon Isinglass aKD Gelatine Lemon Isinglass, Su- perlative Madeira Wine Maraschino Marble Medlar Noyau Noyau with Al- mond Orange Apple Orange Calf's-foot ' Orange Orange Isinglass Orange filled with Jelly Panachee Pig's-feet and Ears Pine Apple Pomona Port Wine Jelly Punch Quince Raspberry Raspberry and Cur- rant Bice Rum Russian Sheep's Trotters Strawberry Tapioca Venus's. Jelly-bags. — Jelly-bags are much the strongest and best when made at home. The strong flannel used for ironing-blankets is the best for this purpose, and it should be made of JELLY-BAG. a half-square, and sewn at the sia with a double seam, so as to be wide at the oop, and pointed at the bottom. The top may be hemmed, and three tape loops sewn to it, by which the bag may be suspended when in use. A jelly-bag should always be wrung dry out of hot water before the liquid is poured into it. Jelly, Bottled, To Mould.—men .lelly IS wanted quickly, it may bo bought in bottles, ready made, 'and beautifully trans- parent. In order to mould it, uncork the bottle, and put it into boiling water. Let it remain until the jelly can be poured out of the bottles. Flavour it according to taste, but do not add very much Kquid, or it may interfere with.