ORA ORA ( 479 ) The flavour is not equal to that of tho fresh fruit. Or, soak tho thin rind of two or tliree fresh oranges in as much brandy or spirits ot vr-ine as will cover them for a week or ten days. Filter tho liquid, hottle, and cork closely until wanted. The flavour of this essence quickly evaporates if it is exposed to the air. The hest way to preserve orange-peel lor flavoui-ing is to rub the rind with lumps o± sugar, and when the yellow part is all taken ofl:, to crush the sugar to powder, and keep it closely covered. Orange-peel, Syrup of, for flavour- illg__Take two ounces of the thin yellow rmd of Seville oranges entirely free from the wliite part. Put it into a jar, and pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely, and leave it until the next day. Filter the liqueur through blotting-paper, put it into an enamelled sauce- pan, and with it a pound and a half of loaf sugar. Let it heat very gently over a slow fire until the sugar is dissolved, then bottle, cork closely, and store for use. Probable cost of oranges, Id. each. Sufficient for a quart of S}TUp. Orange Plum Preserve, Green {see Green Orange Plum Preserve). Orange Plums, To Preserve (excel- lent).—Gather the plums before they begin to ripen. Weigh them, and rub them well with a soft cloth. Eun them down the seam, skin deep only, with a darning needle, put them into a deep earthen jar, cover this closely, place it in a laxge saucepan three parts full of water, and keep the contents boiling xmtil the plums have yielded a considerable portion of their juice. Turn them into a preserving-pan, and boil them quickly until the stones can be easily removed. If it is wished, half the kernels may be blanched, and put into the jam a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. When the stones are all taken awaj' and the jam looks smooth, put in the sugar, three poimds for every four pounds of plums, and boil again for haK an hour. Turn the jam into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way, and store for use. Time to boil, half an hour after the sugar is added. Probable cost of plums, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Orange Pudding.—Eub the rind of a large orange upon three or four lumps of sugar until aU the yellow part is taken off. Make the sugar up to four oimces, put it into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of four oranges. Pour half a pint of boiling milk over three oimces of bruised ratafias or sponge-cake which have been finely crumbled. Add a pinch of salt and a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated. Mix thoroughly the contents of the two bowls, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff-paste, pour in the mixture, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of powdered ratafias over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange Pudding (another way).—Boil the thin yellow rinds of two Seville oranges and one sweet one until they are quite soft. Dfain them well, and pound them to a paste- Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the orange paste, the strained juice of the sweet orange, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Whisk four eggs thoroughly, and stir them in with the rest. Line a shallow dish with good puff-paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Pudding, Boiled.—Take the thin yellow rind of two Seville oranges, and boU them until tender. Drain them well, and pound them to a paste. Pour a pint of boiling milk over a quarter of a pound of sponge-cakes or finely-grated bread-crumbs ; soak until cold, then add the .rind of the oranges, three table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, the strained juice of a small lemon, two ounces of clarified butter, and four well-beaten eggs. Mix all thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould which it will quite fiU, tie the mould in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let the pudding boil quickly until done enough. A pudding thus made may be steamed or baked as -weU as boiled. Half a dozen sweet almonds blanched and pounded will greatly improve the flavour. Time, one hour to boH or steam;. half an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Orange Punch.—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling water. Add the strained juice of a small lemon, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a quarter of a pint of orange wine, a quarter of a pint of rum, and, if liked, a glassful of maraschino or cura^oa. The punch may be taken either hot or cold, and if bottled and corked closely will keep for some time. A quarter of a pint of calf's-foot jelly will greatly improve it. Time, a few minutes to dissolve the sugar. Sufficient fov three pints of punch. Orange Salad.—Peel three or four good oranges, free them from the white skin, and cut them into slices of about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Arrange them neatly in a compote dish, strew three ounces of finely-powdered sugar over them, and pour upon them a ^vine-glassful of sherry, a wine-glassful of brandy, and another of rum or whiskj-. Cura^oa or maraschino may be used instead of the above mixture, if preferred. Many persons find no "wine so agreeable in an orange salad as port. This dish should, if possible, be made the day before it is wanted. Orange Sauce for Cold Meat.—Eub the rind of two sweet oranges upon three or four lumps of sugar. Put these into a basia, and mix with them a wine-glassful of port or claret, a quarter of a pint of dissolved red- currant jelly, a shallot finely minced, a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of thin strips of orange rind. This sauce, if bottled and corked, will keep for some time. It will requife to be dis- solved before it is used. Time, five or six minutes to dissolve the jeUy. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons.