(156) COW coir as regularly as possible with dried cherries or raisins halved and stoned; at the Lottom, place in order u few macaroons and ratafias. Then lino the sides with slices of sponge-cake, and lill the remaining space three-quarters full with sponge- cake, sponge biscuits, and bits of rich plum cake. If the latter aro not at hand, a few washed currants may be sprinkled amongst the cakes. Mix together, half milk half eggs, as much as will soak the cake and till the mould; flavour with orange-flower water and sugar, or a glass of liquor, as noyoau, &c. When the soaking is complete and the mould quite full, cover the top with buttered paper, tie it down closely with a cloth, and boil it for an hour. When turned out of the mould upon a dish, pour round the pudding a sauce made of rich melted butter, sweetened with sugar, coloured pink with fruit syrup, and flavoured with a glass of the same liquor that was used for the pudding. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 28. 6d. for a moderate-sized mould. Court Bouillon (with wine) .—Take one part of vinegar, one of red wine, and four of water; put them into a saucepan, and for eveny three quarts of liquid allow half an ounce of pepper, one ounce of salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, two bay-leaves, one sliced onion, and one sliced carrot. Simmer for an hour, strain the liquid, and it will be ready for use. Court bouillon is used to boil fresh-water fish, to take off its insipidity. The quantity must depend upon the size of the fish, which ought to be well covered. When it is once made, however, it will keep for a long time if it is boiled up every three days, and diluted every time with one breakfast-cupful of water. If this is not done, it will become too strong and concen- trated. Oil and vinegar is the only sauce that is eaten with fish boiled in court bouillon, and served cold. The wine may be omitted. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Suffi- cient for two quarts and a half. Cow-heel (au naturel).—This dish, which is delicious as well as nourishing when properly cooked, may be served in several different ways. It should first of all be thoroughly scalded and cleansed, and the fat between the claws removed. This is often already done when the heel is bought at a tripe shop. (Ask for one which has been scalded, not boiled, or nearly all the nourishment will be gone from it.) Cut a cow- heel into four parts, and put them into a sauce- pan, cover them with cold water, and simmer them gently for four hours; take them up, remove the bones, thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and put with it a table- spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Season with salt and pepper, boil altogether again for a few minutes, and servo hot. If there is more liquid than will be required for sauce, it should be preserved, and will be foiind excellent for sauces and soups. Probable cost of cow-heel, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one heel for a small family. Cow-heel for Invalids.—Take a fresh cow-heel, cleanse and saild it, and remove the fat from between the claws. Do not have one already boiled at the tripe shop, as was said in the last recipe, or it wiU not be bo nounshmg. Put it into a saucepan with one pint and a half of cold water, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of fresh mustard, a siilt-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a pmch of pepper. Bring it slowly to a boil, skim it well, and shnmer it gently for four hours. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of anowroot mixed smoothly with a little cold water; add a wine-glassful of sheiTy, and serve immediately. Probable cost, 4d to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Cow-heel, Pried.—Prepare a cow-heel as before; simmer it gently for three hours, drain it, remove the bones, and cut it into con- venient-sized pieces, about one inch and a lialf long. Mix some bread-crumbs with a little chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, and finely-shred lemon-rind. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, then in the bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot butter or dripping till brightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and pour over them some good melted butter flavoured with lemon-juice. Proba,ble cost of cow-heel, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one heel for two or three persons. Cow-heel, Fried with Onions.—Boil a cow-heel as in the last recipe; take it up, re- move the bones, and put the meat away to get cold; then cut it into nice pieces, about a quarter of an inch in thickness and one inch and a half square. Cut about the same number of slices of Spanish onion, fry these and keep them hot. Dip the slices of heel in frying batter, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat till brightly browned. Serve very hot. The onions must be turned about until they are sufficiently cooked. They will require a few minutes more than the meat. Time : three hours to boil the heel; about twenty minutes to fry it and the onions. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Cow-heel Stock for Jelly.—Cow-heels may be substituted for calf's feet in making stock for jelly. It is best to stew the heels the day before you want to make the jelly, so that it may get cold, and be more thoroughly freed from fat and sediment. Buy two heels that have been well cleansed and scalded, but not boiled. Divide them into four, and pour over them three quarts of cold water, bring them slowly to a boil, sMm the liquid carefully, and simmer it gently for seven hours, or until it is reduced to three pints. After this, proceed exactly as -wnth stock made from calf's feet. If there is any doubt about the firmness of the jelly, an ounce of isinglass may be added. Cow-heels are cheaper than calf s feet, and quite as nourishing, though perhaps a trifle stronger in flavour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, two heels for three pints of stock. Cowslip Wine.—Allow three pounds of loaf sugar, the rind of an orange and a lemon, and the strained juice of a lemon to every gallon of water. Boil the sugar and water together for half an hour. Skim it carefully, then pour it over the rind and juice. Let it