PRINCIPLES PORT. properly recovera its character. The best cellars for keeping wines are those that remain at about the same temperature all the year round. A temperature of between 50 and 60 is veiy good for wine. In fact, a good cellar strikes cold in summer and hot in winter. One very common cause of wine being spoiled is bad corks, and I have often wondered at it. The difference between good and indifferent corks is so slight, that spoiling wine from corkage reminds one of the old saying, of " spoiling a ship for the sake of a ha-porth of tar." In choosing corks for bottling wine, the best plan is to take a quantity up in both hands, and smell them: should there be a peculiar musty smell, the corks are bad, and will utterly spoil a delicate wine. Port for ordinary every-day consumption is, as we have said, best from the wood. Sometimes, however, a cask of port is ordered in, and after some has been drawn off the rest is bottled. Now very much depends upon the way in which yviae is bottled. In the first place, the wine must be perfectly bright in the cask; secondly, the bottles must be not only clean, but quite dry inside ; thirdly, the %vine must be well corked, the corks must fit perfectly tight, and should properly be moistened in a little of the wine that is being bottled, and then the cork hammered down with a wooden mallet. It is by some supposed that the crust on port-wine bottles is the sediment of the wine, which has been put into the bottle rather cloudy. The wine is always bottled bright, but after bottling the wine will turn cloudy, especially in spring and autumn, of its own accord; a crust then settles and adheres to the bottle, and the wine gradually matures and improves, if it is kept at an equal temperature all the year round. Port -svine, however, that has to undergo the variations of temperature that occur in this climate will never mature at all. It is quite possible that the fact of the barbarous custom of building most modern small houses without any ^vine cellars worthy of the name will do much to decrease the consumptioi^ of port wine throughout the countiy. In selecting port wine of course as tastes differ the purchaser must judge to a certain extent for himself. In selecting from samples, I would, however, warn you against being prejudiced by price, and would therefore recommend you invariably to act as follows :—Should your wine merchant send you samples, let these same samples be marked by letters or numbers, and let the price of them be sealed up in a separate lettei\ Then taste and discuss the samples aloud with a friend, and open the letter and see how far your palate agrees with those of others afterwards. This is the only way to appx-oach wine really unprejudiced, and in speaking by-and-by of Australian wine I shall again revert to this pointy—for bear in mind that it is equally foolish to imagine wine must be good because it costs 10s. a bottle—alas! what stiiff some hotel keepers have the conscience to ask this price for !—as it would be to condemn a wine as rubbish simply because it is only 30s. a dozen. Good port is one of the most wholesome and nourishing wines that can be taken —of course being a strong wine it must be taken in moderation. We next come to claret—that light, nourishing, and wholesome wine that is now so largely consumed in this country, and which can now be obtained really good at so small a price. Keally good sound claret can be obtained at 16s. a dozen, and if the wine is imported in wood and bottled on the premises, at a far smaller cost. One great advantage claret possesses over most other wines is that it is easy of digestion, not fattening; containing as it does but little sugar, and consequently