( 86 ) BUR BUT good gravy in a stewpan add a tea-spoonful of soy and cayonno, and tho same of lemon picklo, mushroom kotchup, and cucumber vinegar. A fowl previously cooked should bo jointed, and it will only require to bo heated through in tho aauco. Put it on tho lire until it comes to a boil, when it will bo ready to servo. It must bo served hot. Suitable for an entree. Burnt Almonds {ice Almonds, Burnt). Butter (ii I'Espagnol).—Put hrdf an oimce of isinglass, one glassful of rose-water, and six bitter almonds, blanched and sliced, into an Bnamellod saucepan, and let it stand near the fire for an hour, or until tho isinglass is dissolved and the flavour extracted from the almonds. Add, by degrees and very carefully, half a pint of cream mixed with tho yolks of throe well-beaten eggs. Sweeten to taste, and stir it well over a slow fire until it thickens. Remove it from tho fire, and continue to stir until nearly cold, and put it into a mould weU wetted with rose-water. Time to thicken, about ton minutes. Probable cost for one pint mould, 2s. Butter (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Wash some parsley, pick it from the stems, and chop it ismall. After chopping, wash it again, by put- ting it in the corner of a cloth, dipping this in cold water, and wringing it dry. This second washing is intended to remove the acrid taste which is so often objectionable in raw parsley. Put the parsley on a plate with its bulk in fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and two or three drops of lemon-juice. Work all together with the point of a knife, and be careful to mix it in a cool place, and also not to work it too much, or it will oil. It should be made for immediate use. Sometimes a green onion chopped small is added. Any dish with which this butter is served is named " a la Maitre d'Hotel." Butter, Black.—Take raspberries, straw- berries, gooseberries, currants, or any other fruit, and boil them with one pound of sugar to every two pounds of fruit. Boil well, and unto, the quantity is reduced to two-thirds, then put into pots. This forms a useful and agreeable preserve for children. Butter, Brown. — Melt she ounces of butter in a stewpan over the fire until it becomes of a brown colour, and then allow it to become cold. Take another stewjian, and put into it a cupful of vinegar with pepper, which reduce one-third by boiling. Wlien tho butter is cold, add it to the vinegar and pepper, stir all up well, and warm it over the fire, care being taken that it is not allowed to boH. If the butter is not cool before adding it to tho vinegar it will spurt over the sides of tho vessel. As the usual taste of the butter is entirely destroyed by the heat to which it is subjected, it will be found that an article of the cheapest kind will answer for this purpose as well as the best. Butter, Brown (German method).—Take any quantity of butter required to be browned, and put it into an iron saucepan over a slow fire. Stir until it assumes the colour wanted, taking caro that it does not bum. What is required to be dipped in this brown butter should be prepared beforehand, and dippr^ just before serving. Time, about t(;n ininutoH. Butter. Burnt Sauce. — Brown two ounces of butter in a frying-pan; stir until it is of a good colour, then add a tea-spoonful of salt, a very little cayenne pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of hot vinegar. Tliis sauce is recom- mended by Dr. Kitchener as excellent to servo over poached eggs or for broiled fish. Probable cost, 4d. Butter, Clarified.—Melt some butter in a perfectly clean saucepan; remove tlu; scum, &c., which will rise to the top, and let it stand by tho side of tho fire for all impurities to sink to tho bottom. Strain it carefully through a sieve, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the saucepan. Butter should be clarified before it is used to cover potted meats, &c. When it is hot it may be used instead of olive-oil, and is liked better than oil by many cooks, both for salads and for other purposes. Time to molt, about three minutes. Butter, Clarified (another way).—Dis- solve the butter before the fire, and have ready a clean jar in which to pour it. There is much waste in straining clarified butter, and this is not necessary if it be stirred once or twice whilst melting, then allowed to stand and care- fully thrown into the jar, so as to leave tho sediment behind. Tie it down securely to keep it from the air. Butter, Creamed. —To reduce butter to cream beat it in a bowl with the hand in a con- trary direction to that observed in making cream into butter. Any water or milk must be thrown off. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Butter, Fairy.—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds, adding a little orange- flower water. Wash a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and beat it to a paste with six yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little grated lemon- peel, and sifted loaf sugar. Mix all together with a wooden spoon, and work it through a colander. Serve it, on biscuit soaked in wine, piled up very high. Probable cost, without wine, Is. 6d. Butter for Cold Dishes.—Pound the following ingredients in a mortar, and reduce them to a smooth paste :—One clove of garlic, six hard boiled yolks of eggs, a spoonful of capers, and a seasoning of mace and allsi^ice; moisten with a little tan-agon vinegar and a glassful of salad-oil, and then add eight ounces of butter, with spinach-juice enough to make the butter green. Pound all tiU very smooth, and set it on ico to get firm, when it may be used for the decoration of cold meats, fish, salads, &c. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s., ac- cording to the price of butter. Butter, Melted.—Mix half an ounca of flour smoothly with an ounce of butter melted in a saucepan. Add a little salt and half a pint of cold water. Stir the sauce, let it boil for three minutes, and it is ready. For a detailed description of the best way of making good melted butter, see Puinciples of Cookeky, p. xliii.