MIL MIL ( 420 ) the corks perfectly air-tight. Croam is pro- served by ()V!iponitiH{< it down to a quarter of its prtwious bulk, without addirif? sugar, and Dion presi'rving it in bottles us dir.ictod for milk. The bottles containing it should, Mowever, only be boiled for three-quarters of an liour. Milk and Eggs {xee Eggs and Milk). Milk, Asses', Artificial {nee Asses' Milk, Artificial). Milk, Beer Soup with {see Beer Soup with :\Iilk). Milk Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, one quart of milk, one gill of yeast, salt according to taste, and as much flour as will f oi-m the dough. Stir flom- into the milk 80 as to form a very tliick batter, and add the yeast; this is called a sponge. This should be done in the evening. In the morning cut up the butter, and set it near the fire where it will dissolve, bxit not get hot; pour the melted butter into the sponge, then stir in enough flour to forai a dough; Imead it well, and set it on one side to rise. As soon as it is perfectly light, butter your tins, make out the dough in small cakes, and let them rise. When they are light, bake them in a very quick oven, take them out, wash the tops over with water, and send them to table hot. Milk Breakfast Cakes.—A batter of flom-, milk, and yeast should be made over night for these cakes. Half a pint of yeast and a quart of milk made warm will moisten half a dozen pounds of flour. "VNTien risen next morn- ing (the batter should be covered and set by the fireplace during the night), beat into it four or five ounces of butter melted, knead and make into small cakes, using as much flour as will be necessary to prevent the dough sticking to the fingers. Put the cakes as they are made ou a baking-tin before the fire, while the oven is getting the required heat, then bake; they will take about twenty minutes in a hot oven. Send them to table quickly, well buttered and hot. Probable cost, '2s. Milk Coffee, or CafI au Lait.—Cafe au lait—the favourite beverage at the break- fast-tables of our continental neighbours—is the most simple of preparations, and yet is so badly made in most English households that it has become a national reproach. A very little care will enable the mistress of a family to have as good coflEee on her table as can be procured in Paris. To have cofEee in per- fection it should be roasted and ground just before it is used; the former is not always practicable, but the grinding can easily be performed daily by the aid of a small hand- mill, which is an indispensable article in every kitchen. Do not use cheap coffee. Mocha is the best. No coffee-pot answers better than the common French " alembique," which is merely a tin coffee-pot with three strainers. Place the ground coffee under the top strainer, and above the two others; now replace the top one, and pour quite boiling water in the pro- portion of three cupfuls of water to one cupful of the powder. When it bubbles up through the strainer, close the lid, and as soon as the whole of the water has passed through, the coffee is made. Boil the milk, and \>our into tliff cups in the jjroportion of liaU coffee and lialf milk. Sweeten with crushed sugar-candy or loaf sugar, as moist sugar destroys the delicate aroma of the coffee. SuUicient, au oumre of coffee to three-quarters of a pint ol water. {See aho Coffee, Breakfast.) Milkj Composition of.—As a fom of food winch we oiin regard as a tj^e of all others, there is none so perfect as milk. " It really represents," says Dr. Lan(;aster, "all the food of which we partake which is not medicinal." That milk is a type of all food is found in the fact thxit the young of all the higher nuimmalia are fed on this food for several months, many of them for above a year, and get no other article of diet. During this period they grow very rapidly, and increase in size; consequently, they must have obtained all that which constitutes their muscle, their nerve, their bone, and every other tissue, from the milk they take as food. So that milk must contain the essentials of all food. As to the exact composition of milk, one pound of cow> milk contains:— 1. Water . oz. . 13 grs. 333 2. Caseine . . 0 350 3. Butter . . 0 245 4. 6. Sugar Mineral Matter . 0 . 0 315 70 same weight of asses' milk contains 1. Water . oz. . 14 gra. 76 2. Caseine . . 0 140 3. Butter . . 0 105 4. 6. Sugar Mineral Matter . 0 . 0 420 35 Milk, Condensed.—Condensed milk is a most useful preparation for cooking purposes, or for milk puddings of any kind. It is also good in tea or coffee. The chief advantage that it has over fresh milk is, that it does not so readily turn sour, and that it contains so much sugar that little more, if any, need be used with it. ■ It is valuable in the nurserj-, as it is well known to correspond with the mother's milk better than fresh cow's milk, so that when an infant needs partial feeding, it is not at all upset by the process. TR) stewed fruits it is a very pleasant accompaniment, and is an econo- mical substitute for cream and sugar. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per tin. Milk Curry {see Jersey Milk Curry). Milk Farferl.—Put over the fire in a clean saucepan three pints of sweet milk, and let it heat gradually until it boils, then stir in the farferl (for which we give the recipe below), and let the milk boil for a few minutes longer. Beat an egg with a quarter of a pint of water and a little salt, with which moisten half a pound of flour, using a two-pronged fork, and beating it rapidly into a flaked paate or batter. This dish is eaten either with salt or sugar. Milk Flavour, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa- nut Milk Flavour). Milk, Flavoured, for Sweet Dishes. —Bore a hole in one end of a fresh cocoa-nut.