( 252 ) GIB GIB bottles, and poiir the vinegar over thorn. Cork tho bottlos aocuroly, and put away for uho. Moro viiiDgar niiiat l)o addod whoii ruquirod. Probable coat, la. por pint buttle. Giblet Pie.—Take one act of gooao gib- lots. If nut already cleaned, waali thoni in warm water aovoral timoa. Take tho gall h-oiu tho liver, and cut it and the heart into two pieces. Pick tho head well, aoak it in hot water, and chop olf tho beak. Skin tho foot and the gizzard, and cut tho fvjot with tho piniona into two pieces, the nock and tho gizzard into four each. Put all into a saucepan with cold water, lot the contents juat boil, then take thoni out, drain them, throw away the water, and put them, with froah water, again into tho pan. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and two onions. Simmer gently until done enough. Pom- tlie giblots into a bowl, and lot them got cold. Unless this is uone the flavour of the giblets will spoil the pie-crust. Lay one pound of steak, cut into pieces about an inch and a half square, at the bottom of the pie-dish. If beef-steak is used, it must be stewed in a separate saucepan untU nearly tender before being put into tho pie. With rump-steak this is not necessary. Put the cold giblets among the pieces of steak. Strain as much of the liquid as will not quite cover the meat in the pie, line the edge with a good light crust, place a cover over the whole, brush it with yoDc of egg, and ornament it with pastry leaves. Bake in a good oven. Just before serving, make a slight iucision in the ciTist, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream ; or, thicken the gravy in which the giblets were stewed with a little floiar and butter, or flour mixed with water; brown it, and add to it a glass of port wine. Pour part of this into the pie, and add the rest just before serving. A giblet pie should never be eaten cold. Time, from one to two hours to stew the giblets—if the goose is young, one hour will be sufficient—when the gizzard ia tender the giblets are done enough; an hour and a half to stew beef-steak; one hour to bake the pie. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Giblet Pie (another way).—Prepare and stew the giblets as in the last recipe. Let them get cold, and put them into a pie-dish, with a chicken, cut into neat joints, and sea- soned with pepper, salt, and poimded mace. Cover the whole with a good light crust, and bake in a good oven. Before sending the pie to table, mix a small cupful of tho gravy in which the giblets were stewed with two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup and a wine-glassful of sherry, and pour it hot into the dish. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 8d. Suf- ficient for half a dozen persons. Giblet Soup.—Take two sets of goose giblots. Prepare them in tho same way as for giblet pie {nee Giblet Pie), cutting the gizzard into small pieces about half an inch square, or it will not bo tender imtil tho rest is in rags, and put all into a stewpan with a slice of loan ham cut into dice, and a small piece ot butter. Fry the giblets a few miautes; then add to them two quarts of good stock, an onion Ht,uck with five or six cloves, two or thioe spri.'s oi marjoram, thyuio, or winter savouiy, a tea- spoonful of siiit, lialf a tea-spoonful of pepper, aiKl halt a drachm of bruised celery-seeds tied in a iiiusUn bag. Siminor gently for two hours then take out the giblots, and put thoin into a tureen. Strain tho soup, and thicken it witli one ounce of butter, mixed smoothly over the fire with a tablo-spoonful of flour, until slightly browned, but not burned, and added gradually to the liquid. Lot it boil for a quarter of an hour, then return tho giljlets to it for a few niinutes, to got hot, and serve with toasted sippets. Giblet soup is very good for ordiniiry domestic use. Tho giblots should be tender, but not too much boiled. Before putting them into the tureen they should all be cut into mouthfuls. The giblets of the cygnet make the best soup, but they are not often to be had. Sufficient for four or five persons. Giblet Soup, Duck's.—Very good soup may be made of the giblets of ducks. Tho same directions may be followed as we have given for goose giblets, but as ducks are so much smaller, four sets of these must be used, where two sets only of goose giblets would be necessarj'. Giblet Soup, German.—Put one quart of haricot beans into cold water to soak the day before the soup is wanted, then drain them, boil them untU quite tender, and press half of them through a coarse sieve. Stew the giblets, as in tho last recipe but one, with two quarts of stock, and seasoning. When the giblets are tender, cut them into small pieces, strain the soup, and mix it smoothly with the beans, both mashed and whole; add the giblets, let them get hot once more, and serve. The soup should be as thick as cream. A variation may be made by boUing very small potatoes instead of beans in the soup until tender, but unbroken. Time, two hours and a half to prepare the soup. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, beans, 4d. or 6d. per quart; giblets, 6d. per set. Giblets, To Stew.—Prepare one set of goose giblets in the same way as for a. pie. Cut them into small, convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a sprig of marjoram, the same of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, a Spanish onion, stuck with three cloves, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and a grain of cayenne. Rub tho saucepan once with garlic, and add one pint and a half of stock. Simmer gently imtil all are tender, and as the pieces of meat become so, remove them until the rest are sufficiently cooked. The liver and pinions will be done enough first, and the gizzard last. When all the pieces of meat are taken out, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, heat the giblets, and serve as hot as possible. A few mushrooms, or a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon- juice, is an improvement. Time, frofti an hour and a half to two hours, according to the ago of the goose. Probable cost, giblets, from 6d. to Is. per set. Sufficient for four or five persons. Giblets, To Stew (another way).—Pre- pare the giblets as before, and simmer them in