(411 ) MAT MAY making a hot infusion as tea and coffee are with U8. It is a shrub which attains to about the size of an orange-treo, and grows wild in the forests of Paraguay and Brazil. The work of collecting and preparing the leaves of this plant for use is performed by the native Indians; it is said that upwards of five million pounds of the mate-leaves are annually gathered in Paraguay alone. The preparation of this tea is by no means so carefully gone about as that of Chinese tea. At certain seasons of the j-ear the natives penetrate the forest, and having selected a tree, cut off with a hatchet its prin- cipal branches. When a sufficient number of branches are cut down, they are placed on hurdles. A wood fire is then kindled, and when the flames have ceased to ascend, the hurdles are placed upon it. The branches are allowed to remain on the hurdles till they are dried. They are then removed from the fire, and a clean hard floor being made on some spot of ground, they are strewn upon it and beaten weU with sticks. In this way the dried leaves and smaller branches are reduced to a coarse kind of powder, which is usually placed in bullock'8-hides. These, being sewed up, the tea is ready for expoi-tation. During the packing, however, some little selection is made, and three sorts of mate are known in the market. Mate, or Paraguay Tea, Prepara- tion of.—" The method of preparing this tea is very simple; it is, nevertheless, peculiar. A cup, which is called a mate, is employed, which frequently consists of a gourd, but is sometimes made of silver or other material. Into this cup is introduced a long tube, called a bombiUa, at the end of which is a bowl, pierced with holes, or a roimd piece of basket-work, the object of which is to allow the fluid to be sucked up without the solid particles passing into the mouth. A small quantity of the yerva is then placed in the cup, covering the bowl of the tube, and boiling water is poured upon it. A little sugar is frequently added, and when cold enough, the liquid is sucked up through the tube. The beverage thus formed has a slightly aromatic smell, but very much less than either tea or coffee, and is slightly bitter to the taste." Matelote Sauce for Pike {sec Pike, Matelote Sauce for). Matelote Sauce, Ox Tail with {see Ox Tail with Matelote Sauce). Matrimony Sauce (for dumplings).—Put a bit of butter into cold water in a saucepan; dust in a little flour, stirring one way till they are completely mixed; then add some brown sugar and a table-spoonful or so of vinegar. Continue stirring till the sauce boils; pour into a basin, and serve. May Nectar.—This delicately-flavoured and refreshing beverage is rarely drunk in England, partly because it is so little known, and also because the necessary herbs and in- gredients are not all easily obtained. They should be gathered just before the May nectar is to be made. Pluck six leaves of each of the following: — Tarragon, garden geranium, milfoil, and pimpernel; half that quantity of black-currant, balm, mint, basil lungwort, and balsam leaves. Slice in a lemon; add also a few sprigs of lavender, half a pound of crushed white sugar, twenty leaves of balm, fifteen of peppermint, and two of the wild sweet-scented woodruff with the blossom. After having put these into a punch-bowl, pour over the whole four bottles of German wine. Flowers may be thrown on the top, but not until the last moment. The nectar must be allowed to steep for an hour or two before being drunk. The probable cost depends greatly on the quantity of wine used. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. May Wine.—Throw into a punch-bowl a bottle of hock, slice into that a lemon, an orange, or add a few strawberries, a glass of sherry, and sufficient crushed white sugar to sweeten. Now put in twelve little sprays of leaves of the sweet woodruff, and if in bloom some of the blossoms. Let them steep an hour, and serve out with a ladle. Sweet-scented flowers are often thrown in, and must float on the top, and leaves of sweet hei'bs, and of other fragrant plants, such as the lemon plant and lavender, may be added. May wine may be iced. Mayonnaise (a la Gelee).—The basis for this gelee should be a firm savourj^ jelly. Aspic jelly is well smted for the purpose, and it may be adapted to any particular dish by dissolving and then adding the flavouring required. Take as much of the jeUy as may be wanted, dissolve it in an enamelled saucepan, and whisk it to a white froth with double its quantity of good oil, and for a quarter pint of the jelly, when in a dissolved state, about half a dozen spoonfuls o^ tarragon vinegar, and of salt, pepper, and sugar, a tea-spoonful mixed, but half the quantity should be salt. Whisk all well, taking care to pour in the oil and vinegar, which should be added last, slowly and by degrees. When smooth and white like cream the mayonnaise is ready. It should be whisked over ice. Mayonnaise Sauce.—A mixture of egg- yolks, oil, vinegar, or lemon-juice. The prin- cipal point to be attended to in preparing this sauce is the mode of mixing, which demands time, patience, and nicety. Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of pepper and salt mixed. Beat it till thick, then add from time to time, during the mixing, two or three drops of the best Lucca oil until about four ounces have been used, and the mixture is thick and yeUow. When eight tea- spoonfuls of oil have been used, stir in one tea- spoonful of white wine vinegar, and continue adding oil and vinegar in these proportions until all the oil is used. The yolk of one egg would be sufficient for a pint of oil and vinegar in proportion. The addition of a few drops of lemon-juice makes mayonnaise look creamy; tarragon vinegar assists the flavour. Mayonnaise will keep a long time if bottled closely and kept in a cool place. Mayonnaise Sauce (another way).—/See Lobster Salad. Mayonnaise Sauce (another way).— Mix smoothly together the yolks of two hard-