( 386 ) LOB LOB Lobster Balls.—Pick the meat from a largo tiDslily-boilod lien lobster, luinco it very linuly, and poimd it in a mortar, with a salt- Bpoonl'ul of wliito ijoppur, half a salt-spoonful of salt, throe grains of cayenne, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and two ounces of clariliod butter. Make the mixture up into balls the trize of a largo egg. Dip those into beaten egg, and then into fine dry broad-crumbs. Let them stand a few minutes, tlien dip them a second time. Fry them in boiling fat till they are lightly browned all over; drain them from the grease, and servo them on a neatly-folded hot napkin. Garnish with parsley. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of large lobster, from 28. to 38. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster Bashaws.—Prepare the lobster as in the last recipe. Divide the shell into quarters, scrape these thoroughly, and sprinkle over the inside of them some fine dried bread- crumbs. Put in the mixture, cover it thickly wth bread-crumbs, po.ui' over the top a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, an ounce over each quarter, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the meat in the shells, neatly arranged on a hot napkin, and garnish with bright green parsley. If on being taken out of the oven the lobster is not sufficiently browned, hold a red-hot iron shovel over it for two or three minutes. Time, ten minutes to bake. Pro- bable cost of a large lobster, from 28. to 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster, Boiled.—Wash the lobster well before boiling, especially if it be a hen, tie the claws securely, and throw the lobster, liead first, into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water. If this be done life will be destroyed instantly. Afterwards let it boil gently. When done enough, take it out, wipe it, and rub the shell with a little salad-oil, which wUl give it a clear red colour. Care should be taken not to boil a lobster too long, or the meat will be stringy. The Germans put a handful of cara- way-seeds into the salt and water. If not sufficiently boiled the spawn will not be brightly coloured. Time, moderate-sized lobster, fifteen to twenty minutes; large lobster, thirty to forty minutes; very large, one hour. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. to 3s. Lobster, Broiled.—Take a medium-sized freshly-boiled cock lobster, split it open from head to tail, remove what are called the lady fingers, which are not to be eaten, sprinkle a little white pepper over the meat, and place pieces of butter here and there upon it. Lay the shells open upon a gridiron above a bright, clear fire, and when quite hot, serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. Lobster Butter.—Take the spawn or coral of a hen lobster and pound it m a mortar with a little salt and cayenne pepper, and twice the weight in fresh butter. Kub the mixture through a sieve, and put it in a cool place until wanted for use. This butter will keep a long time, and as lobsters with 8pu\\Ti cannot always bo obtained, the cook should endeavour to keep some always on liand, as it is noodod for sauce, and other dishes. S])ocial caj-t! slujuld be taken to break the seeds when pounding th(3 spawn. M'hon the spawn cannot be had, pound tlie shell of the lobster very finely with a quarter of a pound <jf fresh butter. Put it in a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it boil gently for an hour, then press the butter through a cloth into a baxin of cold water. When it has stiffened, lift it from the water, drain it, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of fresh butter. Probable cost of lobster, la. 6d. and upwards. Lobster, Buttered.—Pick the meat from a largo freshly-boiled cock lobster. Mince it finely, and put it into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of fresh butter rolled in flour. Stir it over a gentle fire until quive hot, then add the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a dessert- spoonful of chilli vinegar, or, if this is not at hand, common vinegar may be used, and three grains of cayenne, with half a salt- spoonful of white pepper in it. Two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy are a great improvement to this dish. Stir the mixture gently over the fire until it is quite hot. Serve it in the shell of the lobster with bread-crumbs over the meat. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lobster, Buttered (another way).— Pick the meat from a large freshly-boiled cock lobster. Mince it finely, and put it into a stew- pan with an ounce and a half of butter, rolled in flour, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, a wine-glassful of sherrj', the same of rich gravy, and a table-spoonful of lemcn-pickle. When quite hot, put the mix- ture into the shells, and garnish with parsley and small three-cornered pieces of toasted bread. Time to heat, about a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Choosing a.—Unboiled lobsters should be heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their being fresh. If they are thickly crusted, they are old. Medium-sized lobsters, when heavy, are often better than large ones. The flavour of the flesh of the cock lobster is finer than that of the hen. It may be known by the narrowness of the back part of the tail, and by the stiffness of the two uppermost fins within it. When lobsters are freshly boiled their tails are stiff, and when lightly puUed return with a spring. Lobster, Cold.—Take off the large claws and crack the shell lightly, without disfiguring the fish. Split open the tail with a sharj) knife, and dish the fish on a folded napkin, with the head in an upright position in the centre, and the tail and claws arranged neatly round it. Garnish with parsley. Salt, cayenne, mus- tard, salad-oil, and ^nnegar should be eaten with it. Sufficient, a medium-sized lobster for two or three persons. Lobster, Cold, Dressed. — Pick the meat from the shell, mince it finely, and mix it with a little salad-dressing, or with a few bread- crumbs, a little salad-oil, salt, pepper, musti^nL