( 270 ) GBA GBA Grapes, To Preserve.—Tuko four poiuids of griipcs before thoy are fully rijjo. Put thorn on tho firo in a saucepan of cold water, and lot thoin remain until tho water nearly boils, then drain tliom and put them into cold water. Boil four pounds of sugar in two quarts of water, skim it carefully, and, when cold, put the fruit in an enamelled sauce- pan, pour the syrup over it, and let all stand for twenty-four hours, Put tho grapes on tho firo, heat them till the syrup is scalding hot, and put them aside until the next day, then drain off the syi-up, and boil it gently for twenty minutes. Pour it over the grapes, which .should be arranged in a clean saucepan, and bring them once more to the point oi boiling. Put tho preserve into jars, and pom- a little dissolved apple jolly over them. Probable cost of grapes, when plentiful, lOd. or Is. per pound. Grapes, To Preserve in Brandy (for Avinter dessert).—Take some fine bunches of grapes. Look them over carefully, to see that ^ are quite sound, prick each grape in three places, and lay them in deep earthen jars. C)over them with white sugar-candy, crushed to a fine powder, and fill up the jars with brandy. ■Cover the jars securely with a bladder, and keep iu a cool dry place. Gratin.—Gratin is a French forcemeat. It may be made either of the lean part of veal or "the breast and wings of a fowl. Take a calf's Tidder, and boil it gently, ^vith as much water as wm cover it, until sufficiently cooked. Let it ■cool, cut away all the upper part, and divide ■the rest into small pieces, which must be pounded in a mortar until they can be passed through a coarse sieve. Take equal parts of ^eal and cooked liver, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of savoury herbs, powdered. Fry them in a little butter for ten minutes, then mince finely, and pound the meat until perfectly smooth, with half the quantitj' of veal udder. If necessary, butter may be substituted for the udder. Pound all thoroughly, and, whilst pounding, add three raw eggs at different times. Make up a small ball of the force- meat, and throw it into boiling water, to try whether it is light and properly seasoned. If it be too firm, add a little water, if too soft, another egg. Probable cost of veal. Is. per pound. Gravy.—Gravies should never be at vari- ance in flavour with the dish which they are to accompany, and in nothing is the skill and judgment of a good cook so much displayed as in their management. They may , be made a source of unceasing expense, or be amply supplied at a merely nominal cost, and in moderate households ought certainly to be made from the bones and trimmings of the joints themselves. Full directions will be given in this work for almost every gravy that can bo required in domestic cookery, but, as a general rule, it should be remembered that the gravy of the meat to be used is always most suit- able to send to table with it. The bones dressed and undressed, the trimmings of meat and the necks and foot of poultry and game should be carefully preserved, and used for making gravy. When these are not sufficient, fresh moat or fresh bones must bo used—the fn.-sher tho better. All superfluous fat should be re- moved before stewing, and the gravy kept in a cool, di-y place, in an earthen pan. Long sinmxoring is required to extract tho full flavour of tho moat; and if any fut is in the gravy after GBAVY STEAIirEa. boiling, it is better left on until the gravy ia required. Gravy should be sent to table hot, and in a tureen, with a very small quantity in the dish with the meat. Nothing can be more xmpleasant than for the carver to find that whilst performing his duties he has bespattered those of his friends who, unfortunately for themselves, were placed near him. Good gravy may be made from the skirts and kidney of beef, the shank bones of mutton, previously soaked, the knuckle of veal or mutton, the shin of beef, a cow-heel, or the liquid in which meat has been boiled. Brown made dishes require savoury gravies, white dishes delicately flavoured ones. Where the flavour of onions is too strong in gravies, it may be lessened by boiling a turnip in it for.a little while. When lean meat is to be made into gravy it should be beaten and scored before stewing. Gravy and Eggs (see Eggs and Gravy). Gravy, Beef. Clear.—Cut two pounds of the shm of beef into small pieces, and fry these over a clear fire until lightly browned, but take care they do not bum. Pour, over them a quart of boiling water, skim thoroughly, and simmer for half an hour. Then add a salt-spoonful of salt, a large onion, sliced and fried, a bunch of parsley and thyme, two cloves, and six or eight peppercorns. Simmer gently for two hours. Strain, and put it aside for use. Remove the fat from the top before heating it. Sufiicient for a pint and a half of gra^-y. Pro- bable cost. Is. Gravy, Beef, for Poultry and Game. —Cut one pound of coarse beef into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spponful of pepper, a shallot, and a pint of cold water. Simmer gently by the side of the fire for twc hours and a half, then strain, add one table spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and thicker, with a tea-spoonful of arrowroot mixed with a little cold water. Boil once more, and serve as