PRINCIPLES—FISH. xxxix instance, a piece of silver-side of beef will keep perfectly good where a shoulder of mutton or, still woi-se, a shoulder of lamb would get bad. So, too, with fish : a solid tish like turbot or salmon will keep much better than fish like whiting, eels, or whitebait. There is one fish, viz., red mullet, that is absolutely better for being kept. In choosing fish, care should be taken not to judge too much by first appearances. A boatful just fresh out of the water, smeared with blood, look much less inviting than those exposed for sale on a fishmonger's slab, yet in reality these latter are the same fish a day or two staler. Perhaps the best general directions for picking all fish is—choose the plump ones. Thick soles or thick turbots are far preferable to thin ones; so, too, with cod-fish. A short fish, with thick shouldei-s, will always be found better than a long and rather thin fish. When the scales of a fish rub ofi" easily it is generally a sign that the fish is somewhat stale. The gills, too, of fresh fish are bright and clear; and when the fish gets stale these gills turn a darker colour, and look dull. Fish, too, that has been kept in ice for long is of very inierior flavour to fish fresh caught. We will begin with boiled fish, and run through the general pi-inciples to be observed in boiling. First, a very common fault with cooks is that they omit to put sufficient salt into the water in which the fish is boiled. In boiling large fish, such as cod, salmon, (fee, where the back- bone is exposed after the fish has been cleaned, it will be found to be a good plan to rub the bone with a piece of salt. The fish should then be placed gently in a larsre fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it. Salt should be added in the proportion for large fish of nearly half a poxrnd of salt to a gallon of water; the minimum of salt should be six ounces to a gallon. In the case of small fish, such as mackerel, small plaice, &c., a quarter of a pound of salt to the gallon will be sufficient. Most fish should be placed, as we have said, in cold water, unless it cooks very quickly or the fish is very small and intended for a fish souchet. The fish should then be allowed to boil up as quickly as possible. Directly the water begins to boil, it will be found that a good deal of scum will rise to the surface. This scum should be taken ofi" at once, as otherwise when the fish is removed from the kettle it will settle on the surface of the fish, rendering it unpleasant, not merely to the eye, but to the palate. At the bottom of the fish-kettle is generally placed a strainer, so that the fish can be gently lifted without breaking. It should be always borne in mind that fish is veiy tender and apt to break. Indeed, many a good cod-fish has been broken owing to the cook carelessly poiiring the cold water on to the fish from a little height. It would be almost impossible to give any general directions as to the length of time fish takes to boil. The time is generally best calculated after the water has boiled. For instance, a good large turbot ^vill be sufficiently cooked by allowing the water to boil for half an hour. Experience alone, however, will enable the cook to form a correct estimate. The fact of the flesh separating easily from the bone is quite enough to prove that the fish is amply done. When a very large cod or salmon is boiled whole, recollect that it will not do to judge by the tail whether the whole fish is done or not, as of course the tail being thinner than the shoulder it will cook through much quicker. Boiled fish should always be sei-ved up on a strainer covered with a nice clean napkin, and care should be taken to allow the water to ran off the fish-kettle strainer before the fish is moved or rather slipped off on to the napkin. Boiled fish should be ornamented with slices of cut lemon and green parsley, and of course a garnish of prawns or little tiny crayfish fonns a great improvement to the appearance. In the case of large flat