PEN ( 207 ) PAN pai-t, into a saucepan that will hold water in the proportion of one quart to every pound of meat. Throw in a small quantity of salt and make the pot boil, and when the scum rises, clear it thoroughly off. Draw the pot aside and let the soup "simmer gently three hours, then put in all sorts of vegetables, three or four carrots, a couple of heads of celery, a smiill cabbage, or, if preferred, tomatoes, a bunch of herbs tied in muslin, some sliced onion fried, and, half an hour before the soup is ready, some turnip cut into small dice. If the meat be requii-ed for table, take it out when tender, which will be after it has stewed from four to five hours. The carrots and cabbage may bo boiled whole and served with the meat. Strain the soup, and thicken with flour. Small pieces of the meat should be sent to table in the tureen. For a small family, where so large a quantity is not required at once, this soup, made according to the direc- tions just given, will be found equally good the second day if only heated and not boiled. Probable cost of beef, 8d. to 9d. per poimd. Panchonettes.—Put a lining of good puft" paste round some tartlet-pans, and fill with a custard. Make it as follows :—Beat four eggs till they are light, stir into them two ounces of sugar and butter (the butter must be beaten till it is like cream), three-quarters of a pint of milk, and three dessert-spoonfuls of flour. When thoroughly mixed, simmer in a well-lined saucepan imtU thick—the mixture should not boil—and flavour with lemon, bitter almonds, or any essence preferred. When baked, slip the fanchonettes out of the pans, and while they are cooling whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, and stir into the froth two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, with which mixture smooth the tops of the tartlets. This icing must be set for five minutes in the oven, but care must be taken to prevent the tartlets from colouring. Send to table on a white napkin garnished with coloured jelly arranged between the tartlets and aroimd them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Sufficient to fill one dozen tartlets. Parferl Paste.—Break an egg into a basin, and beat it weU with a two-pronged fork, adding half a. cup of water and a little salt. Stir the egg into eight ounces of fine flour ; it will form into flakes. This paste is used for soups, gravies, and ragouts. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2id. Sufficient for three pints. Fast-day Sauce.—Use for this fish broth. Blend three table-spoonfuls of flour with four ounces of good butter, put it into a stewpan with al)out a pint and a half of the broth, and heat it till it thickens, but it should not boil. Boil in some more broth an onion sliced, a head of celery, a carrot, and some parsley, and when tender pour in the butter and stew all together. Any additional flavouring may be added, and, II liked, a little lemon-juice or vinegar—^this last should be white. Strain for use. If a brown sauce be required, the flour and butter should be browned before the broth is added, and the vegetables fried brown in butter. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Pat or Marrow Pudding.—Rub stale bread through a wire sieve to make half a pint of fine crumbs. Pour upon these a pint and a half of boiling milk, soak awhile, then add, whilst still hot, four ounces of clarified fat, four ounces of raisins, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Beat the mixture till the fat is melted, stir in four eggs, put the pudding into a buttered mould, and boil it for three hours. Pawn, Hashed.—Stew half a dozen mushrooms and a shallot in a pint of good gravy made from the trimmings of venison, or the remains of mutton gravy. Season with pepper and salt. Lay some nice slices of cold fawn in a stewpan with the gravy, let them get hot through, then add a tea-spoonful each of lemon-juice and sugar, and a glass of porl wine. Let it stand for a few minutes by the- side of the fire, and serve hot. Time, thirty minutes to stew mushrooms, &c., five minutes to warm the slices. Fawn, Hoasted.—The hind-quarter is the best, but a small fawn may be roasted whole, larded, stuffed, and trussed like a hare. Cover with a buttered paper, and baste until half done, then remove the larding and paper, and baste the meat liberally till done. Serve with a sauce as follows : —Take half a pint of mutton gravy, and simmer any of the venison trim- mings in it; strain, and add a small pot of currant jelly, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a large glass of port or claret. Serve hot in a tureen. Time to roast fawn, one hour and a half; to simmer gravy with jelly, &c., five minutes. Fennel.—Common fennel is a well-known biennial plant cultivated in our gardens chiefly for its leaves, which are boiled, and served up with several kinds of fish, and especially with mackerel and salmon. Sometimes the leaves are employed to form a fish-sauce. The species of fennel known as sweet fennel is cultivated as a pot-herb in Italy and Portugal, of which countries it is a native. PEirsmL. Fennel, Pickled.—Fennel should be tied into bunches, and put into a pan of boiling salted water, and when scalded enough, laid on a cloth till dry-. When cold, fill glasses with the fennel, and cover with cold vinegar. Add