CUB ( 174 ) CUR saucepan of cold water, and lot the fruit simmer gently until the juico Hows freely. Strain it once or twice if necessary, and leave it until the next day in some very cool place, being careful to guard it from dust. If the juice is very clear it may then be poured off, leaving any sediment at the bottom of tho vessel. Weigh the juico, put it into a clean saucepan, and add an equal weight of good sugar broken into small pieces. Lot it simmer, and stir it to prevent tho sugar sticking to tho bottom, but do not let it boU. Remove the scum carefully, and when no more rises, put the syrup into an earthen jar to cool. In twelve hours it may be put into small-sized dry bottles, corked and sealed, and stoi-ed in a cool but dry place. This delicious preparation, retaining as it does so completely the Savour of the fruit, is most useful for making isinglass jelly and sauce for swoot puddings; when mixed with cold water it makes a refreshing summer diink, and is especially suited to invalids. It is also very nice poured over or round blancmanges or rice moulds. Time, two days. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Currant Water (a refreshing summer drink).—Mix a quart of red currants and a cupful of raspberries. Bruise them well; pour over them two quarts of cold water, and add half a pound of loaf sugar. Put them into a preser- ving-pan, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, put with them a little writing-paper soaked in water till it is reduced to a pulp, to assist the clearing, and strain the liquid through a jelly-bag. Add as much sugar as is agreeable to the taste, and serve in glass jugs. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts of water. Currant Water (another way).—Dis- solve a dessert-spoonful of red or white currant i'elly in a tumblerful of warm water. Let the iquid get quite cold, then add about ten grains of tartaric acid. This and other cooling summer drinks should be taken in moderation, as they are by no means wholesome. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2d. per glass. Currant Water Ice.—Get one pint of the juice of red currants, to which have been added a few raspberries to give additional colour. Add a pound and a half of sugar boiled to a syrup with one quart of water, and rnix the juice thoroughly with the syrup. Strain the liquid into the mould and freeze. Time, half an hour to draw out the juice. Sufficient for three pints of ice. {See also Currant Cream Ice.) Currant Wine, Black.—Take six quarts of black currant juice ; mix it with six quarts of cold water and twelve pounds of moist sugar. When the sugar is dissolved put the liquor into a cask, which must be kept in a warm, dry room. It will ferment without anj^thing else being added to it. A little of the liquid should be kept with which to fill up the cask when the fermentation is over, and the wine has been well skimmed. Before closing the cask add one quart of brandy. Currant wine should not be bottled for twelve months, and will bo im- proved if kept even longer. This wine will be good for several yeara. Probable cost of cur- rants, -Id. to Gd. per quart. Currant Wine, Red.—Take ihi.,o gai- lous of rijje red currants, pick fiom the stalks, bruise them and press out the juice, and infuse tho residue in four and a half gallons of cold water. Mix well and repeatedly to insure equal diffusion; press out the liquor, mix it with the juice, and add fourteen poundw of loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, transfer tho whole to a cask large enough to leave some space unfilled, put in the bung and bore a hole tlu-ough it with the gimlet, and allow the cask to stand where the tem{>erature \h not less than seventy degrees, for a month. By that time the fermentation will have greatly de- creased. Add three pounds of sugar, dissolved in two quarts of warm water, shake the cask well, and bung it as before. In about six or eight weeks, on listening at the bunghole, your ear will inform you that fermentation has ceased, then rack off the clear liquor from the sediment, and mix with it a quart of the best French brandy. Set it by in the cellar for about two months, when the liquor is again to be racked off into a clean but not new cask, which should be quite filled; it must now be tightly bunged down, so as to exclude the air perfectly, and be preserved for three or four years at a temperature of seventy degrees. When neces- sary the cask should be for this purpose kept near a fire. Time, about three months to cement. Currant Wine, White.—White currant wine may be made in the same way as red, with two ounces of bruised bitter almonds mixed in the fermenting liquor. Currant Wine from Unripe Pniit. —Cm-rants may be used for making wine before they are quite ripe. They should be bruised sufficiently to burst the berries, and have the water poured over them: the sugar may be intro- duced at once. If this is done the wine will be strong and highly flavoured, though not very sweet. The wine must be well strained before it is put into the cask. The same proportions may be allowed for this wine as for black cur- rant, and the same directions may be followed. The only difference will be that greater care will be required in separating the stalks from the fruit. Currants, Compote of.—Pick a quart of ripe red and white currants quite free from dust. Put half a pound of loaf sugar and a breakfast- cupful of cold water into a saucepan. Simmer the syrup gently for a quarter of an hour, then put in the currants, and simmer them for ten minutes longer. Put the fruit into a compote dish, pour the syrup over it, and serve cold. Currants prepared thus are excellent served with blancmange or a rice mould. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. CTirrantS, Iced.—^Vhisk the white of an egg thoroughly until firm, then mix it with three dessert-spoonfuls of cold water. Dip into this, exceedingly fine bimches of ripe red and white currants, one bunch at a time. Let them drain for a minute, then roll them