CASSELL'S Dictionary of Cookery. Aberdeen Sandwiches. —Take two ■ounces of cold chicken and one ounce of cold ham or tongue. Cut them into small pieces and put them into a stewpan with two table-spoon- fuls of good sauce and a table-spoonful of curry- paste. Simmer gently for a few minutes, stir- ring all the time, then turn the mixture into a basin to cool. Cut some slices of stale bread about the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp them in rounds about the size of a penny, and fry them in boiling oil till they are lightly "browned. Place them on some blotting-paper to drain off the oil, and spread the mixture "thickly on one of the rounds, placing another on the top, until all are used. Put them into a -quick oven for a few minutes; arrange them prettily on a dish, and serve hot. The remains •of fish and game may be used in a similar manner. Time to bake, five minutes. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the cold meat. Is. rive or six should be allowed for each person. Aberfrau Cakes.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, adding slowly half a pound of fine flour. Roll out thin, and cut in ■circles about the size of a teacup; impress with a shell or other ornament, and bake •quickly for fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Abernethy Biscuits.—Rub one ounce of butter into one pound of the best flour, adding a dessert-spoonful of sugar and half an ounce of caraway seeds. Mix all together with two eggs, and, if necessary, a little milk. Roll the batter out, knead it into small round cakes, making holes with a fork to allow the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for eight biscuits. Acba.—Take four capsicums and half a large Spanish onion, with as much salt and lemon-juice as may be required to suit the palate, and pound all together thoroughly*in a mortar. _ Acha for Fish.—Thoroughly boil a small piece of salt fish, cut an onion and a few cap- sicums into very small pieces, and add a little Tinegar: pound all weU together, and make into a puree. Acid Ice for Puddings, Tarts, &c. —Strain the juice of a largo lemon, add to it three ounces of sifted sugar, and the whites of B four eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pile this over the pudding after it is cooked, and return it to the oven for a few minutes to stiffen. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pudding for four or five persons. Acidulated Alkali.—Blend thoroughly two ounces of carbonate of soda, two ounces of tartaric acid, and a quarter of a pound of pow- dered loaf sugar. Flavour with essence of lemon. Keep the mixture in a bottle, well corked, and, when required, stir a tea-spoonful briskly into a tumbler three parts full of water, and drink during effervescence. Probable cost, a halfpenny per glass. Acidulated Alkali (another way).— Grate the rind of two lemons upon four ounces of loaf sugar, pound it, and mix it thoroughly with two oimces of bicarbonate of soda and two ounces of tartaric acid. Bottle it, cork it closely, and keep in a dry place. A small tea-spoonful stirred briskly into half a tumblerful of water vdH make a pleasant draught, and it should be drunk during effer- vescence. Time to prepare, haK an hour. Probable cost for this quantity, 6d. Acidulated Drops.—Clarify some sugar as follows : to every two pounds of sugar allow one pint of water and the white of one egg; put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former is thoroughly dissolved; add the white of the egg, and boil, skimming constantly until the sjTup looks quite clear. Remove it from the fire, strain it, and return it to the saucepan. Mix with it tartaric acid or lemon-juice, according to taste, and let all boil together until the syrup crackles when put into cold water. Have ready a well- oiled ddsh, and drop the sugar as regularly and quickly as possible into it. If there is any appearance of the syrup boiling over, two or three drops of oil, or a little cold water, may be put in. Time to prepare, about half an hour, Probable cost, Is. Acidulated Drops (another way).—Boil a pound and a half of sugar with a pint of water and three tea-spoonfuls of tartaric acid imtil it is brittle; then drop it from the point of a knife upon an oiled slab or dish. In order to ascertain when the sugar is sufficiently boiled, dip a stirring stick into the syrup, and drop some of it into cold water; wheu it stiffens and snapj^