( 376 ) LEM IiEM the lumps, and put thorn into a saucepan with half an ounce of isinglass and half a ])int of cream. Heat gently imtil the isinglass is dis- solved, then add another half-pint of cream and a wine-glassful of brandy. Stir the mix- ture for three or four minutes^ strain it through a thick fold of muslin, and when cold add tlic juice of half a lemon. Pour it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, and put it aside till set. If there is any difficulty in turn- ing it out, loosen the edges with a knife, and dip the mould for an instant in hot, but not boiling, water. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon SouflBLe.—Mix a quarter of a pound of flour very smoothly with a pint and a half of milk; add a quarter of a poimd of sugar which has been well rubbed upon the rind of three fresh lemons, and a quarter of a pound of butter, and boil gently imtil the mix- ture is thick and smooth. Pour it out, and stir it until it is nearly cold, then add the yolks of six eggs, weU beaten. Last of all, whisk the whites of nine eggs to a firm froth, and add them, with the strained juice of two lemons, to the rest. Butter a souffle-mould thickly, half fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. If it is necessary to fill the mould more than half, tie a band of weU-buttered white paper round the top, to prevent the contents running over. Serve the souffle the moment it comes out of the oven, or its appearance wiU be spoilt. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lemon Sponge.—Put an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine into a pint of water, add the rind and juice of two lemons, and half a pound of loaf sugar, and simmer gently for half an hour. Strain into a bowl, and when the mixture is cold and beginning to set, which may be known by its becoming thick, stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a firm froth, and whisk it briskly until it is of the consistency of sponge. Pour it into a damp mould, and turn it out before serving. A few drops of cochineal may be put in with the eggs, if liked, to give a pink appearance. Time, half an hour to whisk the sponge. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Lemon Syllabub.—Strain the juice of five lemons over the riud of two. Add half a poimd of loaf sugar, and let it remain for an hour or two. Add a pint of thick cream and half a pint of sherry or raisin wine, strain it, then whisk imtil the mixture is well frothed. Pour the syllabub into glasses, and let it stand ten or twelve hours before being served. Time, thirty or forty minutes to whisk the syllabub. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 23. 3d. Sufficient for a dozen glasses. Lemon Syrup. — Boil six ounces of sugar in a pint of water until it is dissolved. Let it cool, then add a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice and half a drachm of essence of lemon. Mix thoroughly, and bottle for use. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the syrup. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient, two table-spoon- fuls of syrup to a tumblerful of cold water. Lemon Tartlets.—Hub a quarter of a pound of sugar in lumps over the rind of a fine fresh lemon, strain the juice over the sugar, and crush it well; then add two ounces of cLirified butter, a tea-spoonful of bread- crumbs, and two well-beaton eggs. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutc-s. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for eight tartlets. Lemon, Tincture of, for Flavouring. —Put half an ounce of the thin rind of a fresh lemon in a pint bottle with eight ounces of best brandy or rectified spirits of wine. Let it soak for a fortnight, at the end of which time the spirit will be strongly impregnated with the flavour of the lemon. If not sufficiently strong, however, an ounce of recently-prepared oU of lemons maybe added. Strain the liquid,'put it into small bottles, and cork securely. Probable cost of lemons. Id. each. Sufficient, a few drops will flavour a pint. Lemon Tubes.—Weigh an egg. Beat it well, and mix with it its weight in flour and powdered sugar, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Mix thoroughly, and beat to a stiff paste. EoU it out to the thickness of a halfpenny, and dredge a little powdered arrowroot on it to prevent it sticking. Divide it into rounds, about the size of the top of a breakfast-cup, place these on a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. RoU them whilst still warm on a pencil, to shape them into tubes. Bake untU. lightly browned. Probable cost, 3d. Lemon Turnovers.—Pub an ounce of loaf sugar upon the rind of a lemon. Crush it, and dissolve it in two table-spoonfuls of milk. Add three dessert-spoonfuls of flour, two oimces of clarified butter, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir all over the fire for a minute. Take a pound of good pastry; divide it into six or eight pieces, and roll each piece out to a round shape, about the size of a saucer. Spread a little of the mixture on one half of the round, fold the other half over, fasten the edges securely, and bake on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Before ser^^ng, sift a little sugar over the turnovers. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, a halfpenny each. Sufficient for six or eight turnovers. Lemon Water.—Take the rind from a large fresh lemon, remove the thick white skin, and cut it into thin shces. Put them into a jug with half the rind and two table-spoonfuls of capillaire. Pour over them a quart of boil- ing water, and cover closely for tliree hours. This is a refreshing beverage for hot weather. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a-quart of liquid. Lemon Water Ice.—"R"^ the rind of six lemons upon twelve large lumps of sugar, squeeze over them the strained juice, add half a pint of water and a pint of s\-rup, made by boiling three-quarters of a pound of sugar in three-quarters of a pint of water imtil the sugar