( 262 ) GOO GOO returned to the saucepan, and boiled a little lougur, and out tho nioiit into convoniont-sized piofos. It' tho gravy roquiros it, add a little more popper and salt. ISkini oft' tho fat, strain it through a jolly-l)ag, and mix witli an ounco of good gelatine, which has hoon soaked in cold wator for half an hour or morn. Put a little of the jolly into the bottom of the mould. Let it sot, then put in any pretty oi-namenttil dovicos, such as hard-boiled eggs, sliced beetroot, pickles, &c.; pour a little moro jelly over these, and, when it is stiff, put in tho pieces of meat, leaving room for tho jelly to How between them. Let the dish remain until the next day, then turn out, and garnish according to taste. Timo to simmor tho goose, two hours, or a little more. Probable cost of goose, 6s, Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. A couple of ducks may be prepared in this way Instead of a goose. Goose Liver, Klosse (a German recipe). —Grate very finely the crumb of a French roll, and soak it in as much milk as -will just cover it. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, with four well-beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of powdered cin- namon. Stir these well over the fire till the mixtui-e thickens, then add the soaked crumb, first squeezing tho milk thoroughly from it. Add a heaped table-spoonful of dry grated bread-crumbs, the yolks of two more eggs, and the goose liver minced very fine. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, make them up into balls the size and shape of an egg. Lift these carefully into boiling water or broth, and let them boil fully half an hour. It is a good plan to try one ball first; if it will not hold together in boiling, add a few more bread- crumbs. The balls may be fried in hot fat, if preferred. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for six or eight klosse. Goose Liver Pasty (a German recipe).— Take the livers of two fat geese, such as are ordinarily sold. Let the birds be drawn at home, to insure having the li\ers whole, and be careful not to break the gall-bag, which should be entirely cut away. Put the livers in milk, to whiten them. Mince very finely a pound and a quarter of veal, and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon; mix with them two ounces of sardines, cleared of skin and bone, the juice of a small lemon, and half its rind, and an ounce of chopped capers—all finely minced. Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg in a stewpan, put in with it the above articles, cover closely, and steam gently until thte meat is sufficiently cooked—but it must not brown. When it is done enough, stir into it a cupful of thick sour cream, a table-spoonful of vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, a dessert- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a third of a nutmeg, grated, and two weU-beaten eggs. Make some raised pie-crust by boiling together half a pint of water, two ounces of lard, and two ounces of butter, and stirring into these ingredients when boilinga pound and a half of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt. When the pastry is cold, line a pio-mould with it. Spread half the mince at the bottom. Cut the livers in slices and lay them on it. Spruikle over them a dessert-spoonful of salt, a toa-spoonful of l)eppor, and tliree cloves, finely pounded. Spread tho rest of the mince on the top, and cover with tho pie-crust. Make a hole in tho ndddle, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a nioderate oven. The pie must not brown. Let it remain until tho next day, when it may bo put in hot water a minute or two, to make it turn out more easily, lirush it all over with beaten egg. A few truffles are a great improvement to this pasty, when they are obtainable. They should be sfmked, washed, and peeled, then cut into thin slices, and stuck through the livers. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 4s. for this quantity. Goose, Marinaded.—Pluck, singe, and bone a goose. If the latter operation is too difficult, it may be dispensed with. Stuff it wth a highly-seasoned sage-and-onion stuffing, truss it securely, and fry it in a little hot fat until slightly browned all round. Take it up, put it in a saucepan, just cover it with good gravy, and let it simmer gently for two hours and a half. Drain it, put it in the oven to keep warm ; skim the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, add some browning, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle, an anchovy, pounded, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. A glass of port may be added, if liked. Put the goose on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, Mock.—Mock Goose is a name given in some parts to a leg of pork roasted without the slan, and stuffed just under the knuckle with sage-and-onion stuffing. It is a good plan to boil it partially before skinning and putting it down to roast. When it is almost done enough, sprinkle over it a powder made by mixing together.a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, with a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Send some good gravy to table in a tureen with it. Time, allow fully twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Goose Pie. — This is made either with one goose, or, what is better still, two green geese. Braize or stew them {see Goose a 1' Arlesienne), and cut each goose into eight pieces; season, and put them into a good raised crust. Or they may be put into a pie-dish with a short crust, in the usual way. A good-sized piece of butter should be put into the dish. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, one goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Goose Pie (another way) .—The real English Christmas gooso-pie proper is made by boning a goose, turkey, fowl, and pigeon, and putting the turkey inside the goose, the fowl inside the turkey, and the pigeon inside the fowl. A strong raised crust is then fixed properly in form, and all are put inside it, any vacancies being filled up with pieces of ham, tongue, or forcemeat. Clari- fied butter is poured over the whole, tho hd put on, and the crust brushed over with beaten egg, and ornamented. It should be well bound with