MUT MUT ( 443 ) reducf it by rapid boiling. Have roady some French beans boiled and drained; put the beana into a stewpan with the gravy, and when hot serve them and the meat, which should be glazed, on the same dish. The chump end of a loin may be roasted before the tire, enveloped in well-buttered paper, then glazed, and served with beans in precisely the same way. The meat should be roasted slowly without getting any brown colour. Time, about two hours to roast the chump. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton Gigot (a la Gascon).—Choose a tender well-hung bit of mutton. Blanch two or three cloves of garlic in several waters slightly salted, and remove the heads, tails, and bones of six anchovies. Lard the meat with the garlic and ancho'v'ies, roast the usual time, and serve with garlic sauce made as follows:—DiAide a dozen cloves of garlic, and take off their skins. Put them into slightly- salted boiling water, and, to make mild garlic sauce, change the water every five or six minutes until the garUc has lost its peculiar flavour and smell. Serve it like onion sauce, or drain and serve it in the dish with the meat. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes to boH. Suflicient for one pint of sauce. Mutton Hachis (a la Portugaise).—Cut underdone slices from a cold roast leg, and again divide them into pieces about the size of a florin. BrovsTi slightly in butter a little lean ham, a sliced carrot, and three shallots shred finely, a bit of garlic, some sprigs of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, two cloves, and a blade )i powdered mace. Moisten Avith two glassfuls of madeira and a cup of good gravy or stock, and thicken the sauce withroux (a French prepa- ration of butter and flour, similar to the English thickening of kneaded butter with flour); then boil, skim, and strain, lietum the sauce to the stewpan put in the meat and make it hot, but it shotild not boU. Walnut or mushroom ketchup, or the liquor from onion pickle, are all allow- able with hashed mutton. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of meat and wine. Mutton Haggis. —Take the half of a sheep's liver with its heart and tongue, and about one pound of fat bacon. Mince all well together, and grate in two ounces of bread- crumbs and the rind of a lemon. Add two anchovies chopped, and mix the whole of the ingredients with a wine-glassful of sherry, two beaten eggs, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Press the haggis tightly into a mould well buttered, and boil for two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 4d., exclusive of wine. Mutton Ham.—Choose a short, thick, fresh leg of mutton, weighing twelve or four- teen pounds, and cut it into the form of a ham. Pound in a mortar half a pound of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse brown sugar. Make the mixture hot in a stew- pan, then rub it thoroughly into the moat. Turn the ham every morning for four days, and rub the pickle well into it. On the fifth day add two ounces more of common salt. Rub and turn it in the brinr; for twelve days more, then drain, and wipe dry; rub it with dry salt, and hang it up in wood-smoke. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic woods than mutton. When once diicd it will keep for six months. Mutton hams may be roasted or boiled; but in either case they should be soaked, unless qtiite freshly done, when they will only require washing. As a breakfast-dish, with eggs, mutton ham is commonly used in the North of England and in Scotland: it is cut in slices as required, and broiled lightly. Time to smoke, one week. Mutton Ham, Smoked {see Ham, Mut- ton, Smoked). Mutton, Haricot {see Haricot Mutton). Mutton Hash {see Hash, Cold, &c.). Mutton, Haunch of, Roast.—Unless this joint has been well hung it will be tough and insipid. A haunch of good SouthdouTi mutton in fine, clear, frosty weather may be kept a month, but in damp weather it mil require much attention on the part of the cook to keep it from getting tainted in half the time. The great point is to keep it dry, by dusting it first with flour, which should be rubbed ofl: several times with a dry cloth, and again re- newed. When to be cooked, skin the loin, wash, and wipe dry; then cover with Avhite paper, or make a common paste of flour and water, and envelop the joint. Put it on the spit, or hang before a good, even, vigorous fire for the first half hour, basting it constantly with good meat-dripping. When within half an hour of being done, take off the paper, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste copiously with butter, but first pour the dripping from the pan; sprinkle a little salt, and send it to table finely frothed. IMake a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat and a little boiling broth drawn from the trimmings; salt and pepper. Serve cun-ant jelly or currant-jelly sauce. Time, fi-om ten to fifteen minutes per pound ; well done, eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for ten or more persons. Mutton Hotch Potch.—Cut up three or four well-washed lettuces, and slice half a dozen yoimg onions, browning them slightly in two ounces of butter; add to the onions a pound of underdone mutton minced, half a cupful of mutton broth from the boiling of the bones, and the cut-up lettuces--. Stew all those ingredients to- gether for twenty-five minutes. Stir this hotch- j)otch to keep it from burning, and have ready boiled a pint of peas; mix the peas with the mutton, and stir for a minute or two to make all hot. Underdone beef may be used if more convenient, and a few mushrooms, to be easily had in the countrj', may be chopped and fried Avith the onion. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of meat. Mutton, Kebobbed. — This favourite Oriental dish can be prepared with our English mutton in a manner far superior to any Kebob at Turkish or Egj-ptian tables. Take a loin of mutton, joint it well at every bone, cut off all superfluous fat, particularly of the kidney, and remove the skin ; prepare a well-proportioned