HAR ( 306 ) 6auce into the pan; tliiukon it with thi-eo tablc- Bpoonfiils oi" thu bloo l uf the hare. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Add a glass ol' port or BurguiLdy. I'ut the scoJiops into a croustado (see Uroustado) on a hot dish, pour tho sauco over thorn, and servo. I'robablo cost, 8d., oxclusivo of tho haro and wino. Sullicient for two or tlu-oo persons. Hare Soup.—Tako a fine hare, skin and empty it, cut it into joints, tako out tho eyes, spUt tho head in two, and put it, with two pounds of thri shin of boof, cut into small pieces, into a saucepan, with a gallon of cold water. Remove the scum as it rises, and, when the water boils, put with it two onions, with throe cloves in each, two or three sliced carrots, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a di-achm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin. Let tho soup simmer very gently for two hours, then take out the best joints, remove the meat from the bones, return the latter to the stewpan, and simmer again for another hour, during the latter part of which a- dessert-spoonful of salt and a bunch of sweet herbs, tied in muslin, may be added. If these are put into the soup too soon, their flavour will evaporate. Fry two chopped onions in a little butter, mix very smoothly with them two table-spoonfuls of ground rice or flour, moisten with a Httle of the hquid, then add it to the rest. After it has boiled, strain it through a colander, pick off the meat from the pieces of hare which were left in the soup, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a coarse sieve, and return it to the liquid; put in the pieces of hare which were set aside, and when they are tho- roughly heated, add the blood of the hare, if this is liked. A little of the soup must be mixed with the blood at first, and it must then be added to the rest. The soup must only simmer a few minutes after the blood is added, for fear it should curdle. The addition of the blood is considered by many a great improvement, but by others is strongly objected to. Add a quarter of a pint of port, and serve with force- meat balls in the tureen. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. per quart, supposing the hare to cost 3s. 6d. Hare Soup, (another and a richer way).—Cut a hare into neat joints, and put them into a stewpan, with four ounces of butter, half a poimd of lean ham, cut small, two sliced carrots, two sliced onions, a sprig each of parsley, marjoram, and thyme, a blade of mace, four or five cloves, a bay-leaf, and four shallots. Fry them for three or four minutes. Pour over them three quarts of good Scock, and simmer gently for two hours from uhe time when the soup boils, being careful to clear off the scum as it rises. Strain the soup. Re- move the meat from the back of the hare, and put it aside. Pick off all the rest from the bones, and pound it and the ham in a mortar, with two ounces of stale bread-crumbs, which have been soaked in the liquid. Pass the paste through a sieve, mix it with half a pint of port, return it to the saucepan, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer. Season with salt and caycmne according to taste, put in tho pieces from tho back, and, when these are hot, servo immediately. Time, altogether, three hours. Probable cost, HAR •2h. Od. per quart, exclusive of the wine. Suffi- cient lor cxgJit or ton porsons. Hare Soup (made from the remains of jugg.^d hare)._J>i, k out tlie best of the meat, and divide it into pieces large enough for a mouthful. Put these on a plate, cover them over, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. 1 lit all the rest of the hare, bones, and trim- mings, and stufling, and gravy into a saucepan, pour over it as much good stock (see Stock made from Bones) as will cover it, and add eight or nine outer sticks of celery and a slice of stale crumb of bread. Simmer all gently together till the celery is tender. Strain the soup, pick out the bones, and rub the celery and all else that remains patiently through a sieve. I'he more there is passed through the better! Mix the pulp with the stock, put the soup back into the saucepan, and let it boil up again. If too thin, a httle brown thickening may be added, but hare soup should not be too thick. Put the pieces of meat in the soup, add salt and cayenne to taste, and when it is quite hot, without boiling, throw in a glass of port and a little jelly. Add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve at once. Time to simmer the bones and trimmings about one hour and a half. Hare Soup; Mock.—Take a bullock's heart. Wash and clean it, cut away the fat, pipes, &c., and soak it in vinegar and water for twelve hom's. Drain the water from it, and cut it into shces, place these in a deep jar which has a closely-fitting Ud belonging to it, and pour over it three quarts of water. Add a large onion stuck with six cloves, a small lump of sugar, half a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, a piece of bread toasted till it is brown and hard, and two ounces of butter, rolled in flour. Place the Hd on the jar, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain for five or six hours. The water in the saucepan must be replenished as it boils away, and it must never be so high that it will reach to the top of the jar. If at the end of five hours the meat is quite tender, take it up; if not, let it remain another hour. Poimd it in a mortar with the toasted bread, pass it through a sieve, and mix it again with the gravy. . Season it with salt and a httle cayenne, and add more thickening, if required. A glass of port is an improvement. Probable cost of bullock's heart, 28. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Stewing.—Cut up a hare into neat joints. Put these into a stewpan with a pint and a half of good gravy, four ounces of raw ham, cut into dice, four shallots, a sprig of parsley and thyme, the liver, finely minced, a blade of maco, half a dozen peppercorns, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Stew gently for an hour and a half. Strain the gravy-. Put it, with the haro, back into the saucepan, add a glass of port or claret and a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, smoothly mixed with a dosRcrt-s]ioonful of ground rice; add a httle salt, if required: simmer a quarter of nn hour longer, and serve as hot as possible; fried forcemeat balls, may be placed round the