PAR ( 507 ) then be served, and will be almost as good as when first di-essed. Parsnips Browned under Roast ]|^0a,t. — Boil the parsnips imtil tender, ac- cording to tho directions given above. Take them up, drain well, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, put them in the dripping-pan before the fire under the joint they are to accompany, and let them remain until they are nicely browned. Send them to table in a dish by themselves, with two or three round the meat as a garnish. Time, about a quarter of an horn- to brown the parsnips. Probable cost, lid. each. Sufficient, one large parsnip for two persons. Parsnips, Pried.—Boil four or five large parsnips in salted water until they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them well, and cut them either into rounds or long slices, a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into frying batter, and fry them in hot lard or dripping imtil they are lightly browned on both sides. Drain well, and serve verj' hot, as an accompani- ment to roasted joints or fowls. The batter may be made as follows: — Break an ounce of fresh butter into small pieces, and pour over it about two table-spoonfuls of boihng water, stir imtil it is dissolved, then add a third of a pint of cold water and a little salt and pepper, and mix in, very gradually, six ounces of fine flour. Just before the batter is used, add the white of an egg beaten to a firm froth. Time, one hour or more to boil the parsnips; a few minutes to fry the rounds. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnips, Mashed. — Scrape and boil foul- or five parsnips in salted water until quite tender, then drain them, mash them, and press them through a colander. Put them into a stewpan, with two or thi-ee table-spoonfuls of cream; failing this, of milk, thickened with a small tea-spoonful of flour and a little butter. Stir the parsnips over the fire until the liquid is absorbed and they are quite hot; then turn them into a tureen, and serve immediately. Time to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnips, Stewed.—Boil two moderate- sized parsnips until tender, then drain, and cut them in slices, about half an inch thick and three inches long. Make a little good white sauce with two ounces of butter, a table- spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of stock, the third part of a pint of new milk (or cream, if obtainable), and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir this sauce over the fire until it is smooth and thick, put in the sliced parsnips, simmer for a few minutes, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to simmer the parsnips in the sauce. Probable cost, 8d., if the sauce be made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Parson's Pudding.—Line a pie-dish with puflE paste, place in it a layer of any jam or jelly, cover this with bread and butter, withoi7+ cruat, and pour over it a quart of milk, in which four eggs and a quarter of a pound of ground rice have been mixed and well sweetened. Bake in a quick oven. Time, over an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Partridges.—Partridges, like other game, should be hung as long as it is safe to keep them. They should be chosen young, as an old bird is comparatively worthless. They are in season from the Ist of September to the be- ginning of February. Partridges when young covey together, and thus the sportsman often shoots several at once. When the winter comes on they retire to the upland meadows, and hide themselves among the grass. They are simple and timorous birds, and are easily taken. The eggs of partridges are frequently hatched under the domestic hen, and the young fed on ants, eggs, curds, and grits, with a little green food; when old enough they are fed with grain. They are easily tamed, though it is said they never wholly forget their wild origin. The female partridge is smaller than her mate, and less pleasing in colour; her back is darker, and her belly without the brown patch in its centre. The male is twelve inches long and twenty broad, and the wing measures six and the tail three inches. The common partridge is almost exclusively a European bird. In Europe it is extensively distributed in all suitable localities, and inhabits all the level parts of England and Scotland. Partridges, Baked (al'Italienne).—Pluck and truss a brace of partridges as if for roasting, and put into each bird a forcemeat made as follows :—Grate half an ounce of stale bread into very fine crumbs. Season these with as much salt and white pepper as wiU stand on a threepenny-piece, and half a dozen grates of nutmeg; work in with the fingers an ounce of butter, and add a tea-spoonful of finely- minced parsley and a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Dip two sheets of note-paper into some pure salad-oil; peel, mince finely, and mix thoroughly, three good-sized mushrooms, a moderate-sized carrot, a small onion, two table- spoonfuls of parsley-leaves, and half a dozen leaves of thyme, with two or three truffles, if these are obtainable. Divide the minced vegetables into two equal portions, and spread them upon the paper, lay the partridges upon them, and cover the breasts with fat bacon, tied securely round with twine, and fasten the paper. Lay the birds side bv side, breasts uppermost, in a deep pan, cover the partridges closely, bake in a good oven, and baste once or twice during the process. When they are done enough, take off the paper and the bacon, put the birds on a hot dish, and pour over them a sauce made as follows :—Put half a pint of good stock into a saucepan, with an onion, the trimmings of the mushrooms and truffles, a slice of carrot, and a little salt and pepper, if required. Boil quickly for half an hour, then strain the sauce, thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of flour, add a dessert-spoon- ful of browning, two table-spoonfuls of claret, and the minced vegetables which covered the partridges; boil up once, and serve. Time, from thirty to forty minutes to bake the birds,