APR ( 24 ) APP Fwoeton and flavour them ; then lay thorn at the bottom of a well-butterod dish. Blanch and pound a quaiter of a pound of swoot almonds; add to thom four tablo-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two tiiblo-spoonfuls of Hour, the grated rind and juico of a lemon, and four woll-boaton eggs. Spread the mixture over the apples, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Apples and Apricots, Charlotte of. —TaKo slices of the crumb of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, or, if preferred, a few Savoy biscuits. Have ready a plain round mould. Cut a roimd large enough for the bottom of the dish, and a number of fingers for the sides. Fry them in butter to a light brown, and spread them thinly on one side with apricot jam. Arrange them in the mould, the round at the bottom and the fin- gers at the sides, each piece overlapping another to prevent the fruit escaping. Fill the middle with apple marmalade, over which spread a thin layer of apricot jam. Cover the top closely with pieces of fried bread, place a dish over it, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost of a moderate-sized mould, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for six persons. Apples and Apricots, Chartreuse of.—Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with a cupful of rice, the rind of a lemon or a little cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a nut. Let it simmer gently until the milk is nearly all ab- sorbed ; then beat it well, and place a thick layer of it at the bottom of a weU-buttered pie- dish. Pare and core half a dozen good-sized apples, but neither divide them nor open them quite through. Fill the cavity in each with a little butter and sugar. Arrange them in the dish, and pour the rest of the rice round them, making the whole smooth. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and when sufficiently cooked, put a large spoonful of apricot jam at the top of each apple. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, forty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Apples and Apricots, Compote of. —Place in a saucepan half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Let it boil for ten minutes to thicken, then put into it eight or nine golden pippins pared and cored without >>eing divided. Let them simmer very gently until they are clear and soft, but not broken. Lift them out carefully, and lay them in a deep glass dish; pour round them some good cold custard, and put on the top of each apple a spoonful of apricot jam. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apples and Apricots, Croquettes of.—Take four table-spoonfuls of apple and two of apricot marmalade. Jlix with them the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Put these into a saucepan and simmer gently, stirring all the time. When the mixture is stiff, mould it into balls; dip them into the white of egg well beaten, and a few bread cnmibs. Fry in boiling oil or butter, and serve hot. Time to simmer the fruit and yolks, ten minut^js. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four persons. Apples and Pears, the Pips of.—men liniised in a mortar, these imjjart a deliciouh flavour to tarts. Apples and Bice.—Put eight or nine good-sized apples, pared, cored, and sliced, inttk a saucepan with a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar, a small piece of butter, and sufficient water to prevent burning. Allow them to simmer gently until reduced to a pulp, which must be spread at the bottom of a well-oiled pie-dish. Boil half a cupful of well-washed rice in a pint of milk, with a little cinnamon and sugar, until the milk is absorbed and the rice quite soft; then mix in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and boil two or three minutes longer, stirring quickly. Pour over the apples, smooth it evenly, and place the dish in a quick oven to brown. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. Apples and Bice (another way).— Sinamer a cupful of rice in a quart of milk until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. Add a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, and half a dozen drops of essence of almonds. Beat well for a few minutes, then place in the centre of a large dish a round jar, and pour the rice round it. Pare, core, and cut six or eight large apples into slices half an inch thick. Fry them in boiling oil or butter until they are cooked through, but do not allow them to break; stick them into the rice, and ornament it prettily with coloured jam, pink sugar, red jelly, or in any way that the fancy may suggest. Before serving, lift the jar from the centre of the dish, and fill the hole with a good custard {see Custard). This may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to boil the rice, forty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s. Apples and Bice (another way).— Simmer a cupful of rice ydth a quart of milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon, until the rice is tender, and the mUk absorbed. Beat thoroughly for four or five minutes, and place it in the centre of a large dish, piled high in the form of a pyramid. Have ready one dozen apples stewed whole {see Apples, Stewed.) Arrange them round the rice, -with the syrup in which they were stewed coloured with a few drops of cochineal, and serve quite hot. Time to boil the rice, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Apples with Custard, Pancake of.— Pare, core, and slice four good-sized apples. Fry them in butter, and when they are brown on one side, turn them over, and pour over them a custard made of four eggs beaten, a cupful of cream or new milk, and a little cinnamon. Frj- to a light brown. Turn carefully, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient for three persona. Probable cost. Is., if made with milk. Apricot, The.—The apricot is a fruit of foreign origin, but many varieties are novr