i»RINClPLES—GEAVV. and a very little piece of mace and cinnamon, with, just a suspicion of cayenne pepper. VVTien the stock, by means of being gently boiled, has evaporated away till there is only one-thii-d of it left, strain it very carefully off, and mix it with nearly a tumblerful of claret, and warm it up. It will of course be quite thin. Next take a little arrowroot, and mix it with a table-spoonful of cold water in a cup; stii* it, and mix it in gradually with the sauce, which must be just sim- mering on the fire. As soon as the sauce gets as thick as prepared gum or very thin treacle, it is done. The sauce should, however, be as bright as claret itself This sauce does for a variety of purposes, such as sweetbreads, boiled fish, or even cold meat may be cut in slices and warmed up in it. The advantage of aiTOwroot as a thickening is very marked in this sauce, as the brightness of the colour is not in the least destroyed, and the exact consistency liked can easily be obtaiaed by simply adding a little at a time, and keeping the sauce well stii-red and simmeriag. Kecollect, however, in using arrowroot as a means of thickening, always to mix it with cold water in a cup, and stir it up before taking any out, as the arrowi'oot will settle and cake at the bottom of the cup. Arrowi'oot is the best thickeniag when clearness is desirable; there are many kinds of gravies, however, which are necessarily clear, and yet which are ill-adapted to bear brown thickeniag. The gravy for ordinary hashed mutton is one. Colour can be im- parted by browning a little sliced onion with a little butter in a frying-pan, or by means of burnt brown sugar and water, or toasted bread. This gi-avy is best thickened with corn-flour or arrowroot, as mutton previously cooked is not savoury enough to bear the rich flavouring of brown thickening like roast goose, or duck, or fowl. Colouring from siigar is made by simply melting some coarse brown sugar in an old frying-pan till it looks like blood, and then pouring some boiling water on it, and stii'ring it till it is dissolved. Colourmg-balls for soups, gravies, &c., are sold in bottles, and are made in France from vegetables, but they vary considerably, and sometimes impart by no means an agi-eeable flavour to the soup or gravy. Used with caution, however, they are at times very valuable, as a little piece will go a long way; but I will defer going into the question of colouring soups until we enlarge on that most impoi-tant branch of cooking, viz., letting stock colour itself, by being reduced to a glaze in the making, which is far preferable to any artificial means. ^ There is one most important point which the cook should always bear in mind when brown thickening is used for either soup or gravy, and that is, re- moving the fat or butter which will always rise to the surface of the soup or gravy after boUing. Should this important point be omitted, the gravy or soup- ladle might possibly have a film of fat hanging from it similar to what we have ah-eady described as happening to the gravy from a roast joint when the cook has been careless in pouring off the grease. After the gravy or soup has been thickened, allow it to boil up, and then stand it on one side of the fire. In a very few mmutes a film of grease from the butter in the thickening will make Its appearance on the top, and requires removing; this must be repeated several times The safest method is to allow the gi-avy or soup to simmer gently, when It will gradually what is called - throw up the grease." If, then, when the liquid IS simmering, it be occasionally skimmed, aU fear of greasy gravy or soup is removed. The same process applies in using white thickening. Suppose you have thickened some Palestine soup, which is made from Jerusalem artichokes, allow the thickened soup to boil. The top will have a yeUow, oily appearance