CAK CAB C ) a littL) flour ovLT them, nnd fry thorn in boiling buttor or liird luitil thoy aro slightly browned. Strew a littlo sidt and poppor ovor thcni, and sorvo hot. I'ime to fry, livo or aix niinutoB. Cabinet Pudding, Boiled. - Put a pint of now milk into a saucepan with two tablo-spoonfuls of sugar and the rind of a lemon. Let it neai-ly boil, to extract the liavoui- of the lomon, then add to it four well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould rather thickly, aud ornament it with stoned raisins, Ciindied pool, or in any other way; then fill it with alternate layers of sliced sponge linger biscuits and crushed ratafias. Put in the biscuits lightly, so as not to disturb the ornamentation. When the mould is nearly full, and it is time to steam the pudding, pour the cold custard gradually ovor the cake. Put a piece of buttered writing paper over it, place it ia a saucepan, and steam it (jcntly for an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Cabinet Pudding, Cold.—Put half an ounce of gelatine, which has been previously soaked in two table-spoonfuls of water, into a saucepan with a pint of new milk, the rind of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil aU together, stirring the liquid until the gelatine is dissolved. Well oil a plain round mould, and fill it with alternate layers of candied fnaits, three parts crmnbled macaroons, and Savoy biscxiits. Add a little brandy, fill the mould with the milk, and let it stand in a cool place imtU firm. Time to set, five or six hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cabinet Pudding, Plain.—Butter a plain round mould; then fiU it with alternate layers of raisins, bread and butter without crust, sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Pom- over it a pint of new milk mixed with two well- beaten eggs; flavour and sweeten. Allow it to soak for half an hour; then place a plate on the top, and steam it for one hour. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. Cabinet Pudding, Rich. — Butter a plain roimd mould; fill it ynVa. alternate layers of dried apricots or candied fruits of any kind, and crtmibled macaroon and Savoy biscuits. Pour a wine-glassful of sherry or brandy over this; then make a custard of a pint of new milk and the weU-beaten yolks of four eggs. When this is quite cold, pour it gently and very gradually over the biscuits. Cover the top of the mould with buttered paper, put it in a sauce- pan, and allow it to steam for one hour. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. Caf6 ai'. Ijait.—Make some strong clear ooffec. Pom- it into the cup with an equal quantity of boilir g- milk, and sweeten according to taste. This is the coffee which is served in Francs for breakfast, and it is both palatable ar.c1 nutritious. Allow one breakfast - cupful for caca person. Probable cost, 4d. per cup. Cafe Noir.—This is the coffee which is handed round in small cups after dessert in France. It is sweetened, but neither milk or cream is added. It shotud be made exceedingly Btrong, and will be foimd useful in warding off the somnolency which ia often the first result of a good dinner. It should bo made in the same way as bn-aki'unf, <'<jtt'ce, aUowing u cupful of froshly-grouiid cbfl'ee for every four cupfuls of boiling water. Probable cost, 4d. per cup. A small cupful will bo sufficient for each jjorson. Cakes. General Remarks on.—In making cakes, gi-eat care should Ije taken tliat everything which is used should be perfectly dry, as dampness in the materials is veiy likely to produce heaviness in the cake. It is always best to have each ingredient properly prepared before beginning to mix the cake. Currants should be put into a colander and cold water poured over them two or three times, then spread upon a dish and carefully looked over, so tliat any little pieces of stone or stalk may be removed. The dish should then be placed before the fire, and the currants turned over frequently untU they are quite dry. Butter should bo laid in cold water before it is used, and, if salt, should be washed in several waters. It should be beaten with the hand in a bowl tm it is reduced to. a cream, pouring off the water untH no more is left. Flour.—The flour for cakes should be of the best quality. It should be weighed after it is sifted and dried. Eggs.—Each egg should always be broken into a cup before it is put to the others, as this will prevent a bad one spoiling the rest. The yolks and whites should be separated, the specks removed, and then all the yolks trans- ferred to one bowl and the whites to another. The yolks may be beaten with a forktUl they are light and frothy, but the whites must be whisked till they are one solid froth, and no liquor re- mains at the bottom of the bowl, llie eggs should be put in a cool place till required for use. When the whites only are to be used, the yolks, if imbroken, and kept covered, will keep good for three or four days. Sugar.—Loaf sugar is the best to use for cakes ; it should be pounded and sifted. Lemon.—Peel should be cut very thin, as the white, or inner side, wiU impart a bitter fla- vour to the cakes. Almonds for cakes should be blanched by being put into boiHng water, and when they have been in for a few minutes the skin should be taken off and the almonds thrown into cold water to preserve the colour. If they aro poimded, a few drops of water, rose-water, or white of egg should be added in everj- two or three minutes, to prevent them oiling. If they are not pounded they should be cut into thin slices or divided lengthwise. Milk.—Swiss condensed milk will be foimd to be excellent for cakes when cither cream or milk is wanted; but when it is used less sugar -wiU be required. Yeast.—WTion yeast is used for cakes, less butter and eggs arc required. Baking Powder.—Nearly all plain cakes will be made lighter by the addition of a little baking powder. Moulds for cakes should be thickly buttered, and it is a good plan t(i place some well-oiled paper between the mould and the cake.