( 366 ) LAR LAB Lark Pie (to be eaten hot).—Take a dozen larks, empty thorn, cut off their heads, necks, and logs, roll them in floiu-, fill them with a forcemeat mado of four tahle-sijoonfuls of finely-grated broad-crumbs, half a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, finely mincod, a small salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of popper, riaco three or four slices of bacon and throe or four slices of lean hoof at the bottom of a pie-dish, put the larks upon them, and strew over them half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of parsley, a shallot cut into small pieces, and a little salt, if required, but this will depend upon the con- dition of tho bacon. Pour half a pint of weak stock over tho whole, line the edges with a good crust, cover tho dish with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost of larks, Is. 6d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Lark Pie (another way).—Take a dozen larks, pluck them, cut off their heads, necks, and legs, and take the gizzards only from the insides. Fry them lightly, and with them half a pound of lean veal, and half a pound of ham cut into pieces about two inches square. Put the veal and ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the larks upon them, and strew over them a tea-spoonful of salt, or less if the bacon be very salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a finely-minced shallot, and a dozen small mushrooms cut into thin slices. Thicken half a pint of good stock with a table-spoonful of flour, add a table-spoonful of ketchup, let it boil for two or three minutes, then pour it over the larks, &c. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, and bake in a good oven for about an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks (a la Macedoine).—Pick and clean two dozen larks, cut off their necks and heads, and fiU them vcith. a forcemeat made of their livers, finely minced, three ounces of veal, three ounces of fat bacon, a salt-spoonful of Bait (if this be necessary), a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of pow- dered sweet herbs, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Pound the forcemeat well before put- ting it into the birds. Lay the larks into a deep dish, pour over them a pint of good gravy, and bake in a moderate oven. Dish them round mashed potatoes, and garnish with carrots and turnips, boiled and cut into small dice. Pour the gravy over, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per dozen. Larks, Broiled.—Pick and clean a dozen larks, cut off their heads and legs, truss them firmly, rub thom over with beaten egg, and strew bread-crumbs and a small pinch of salt over them. Broil them over a clear fire, and serve them on toasted bread. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks, Croustade of—Bone a dozen and a half larks, cut off the legs and heads, open, seaaon them slightly, and put a smaU piece of veal forcemeat and a truflle into each bird, roll the larks up tu a ball-isluipe, put them into a pie-dish, 8oa«on them slightly with salt and pepper, and pour three ounces of clarified butter over them; then bake in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour. Dish thom in a fri. bread croustade jn-epared as follows :—Cut th. crust from a stale loaf, about eight inches lou;.- scoop it out in the centre, and fry it in very hoi lard till it is briglitly browned; drain and di •. it, and stick it in the middle of the dish, witli \ paste made of white of egg and flour. Befor. l)utting the larks into it, put it in tho oven ior a few minutes to get hot. Gamieh with stewi-J mushi-ooms and aspic jelly, and send a pint oi good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Pr';- bable cost of larks. Is. 6d, per dozen. Sufficieu*. for half a dozen persons. Larks in Batter Pudding.—Mix six table-spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with four table-spoonfuls of water, four well-beaten eggs, and a pint of milk. Add a tea-8ix)0nful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Grease a pie-dish thickly, pom- in the batter, and put into it half a dozen larks, which havr been picked, cleaned, and trussed, with a slicf of bacon fastened roimd each. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Larks, Potted.—Pluck and clean a dozen larks, cut off the heads, necks, and legs, open and flatten them, and season each one with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Arrange them closely in a potting-pan, place a quarter of a pound of butter upon them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them out, pour oft" the butter, and put them in a cool, diy place tmtil wanted. Time, twenty-five minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Larks, Puffs of {see Puffs of Larks). Larks, Roast. — Pick and clean haK a dozen larks, cut off the legs, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a knife. Season the birds lightly with a httle pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and strew a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley over each; brush them ^vith beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs upon them, run them upon a long skewer, fasten each end of this to the spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Baste plentifully with butter, and strew more bread-crumbs over them while roasting, until within five minute.s of their hoins done enough, then leave them to brown. Dish them on fried bread-crumbs, and garnish tht dish with slices of lemon. Time to roast, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for two persons. Larks, Roast (another wav). —Prepare the larks as in the last recipe. Instead, how- ever, of brushing them over with egg a.nd dipping them in bread-crumbs, cover each bml entirely with a shco of fat bacon, and roast as before. Be careful that the larks are not sufli- cicntly near each other to touch when on thr skewer. Garnish with watercrcsses, and send