( 78 ) BRE SBE Bread Jelly (for Invalids).—Toast thin slices of a I'rouch roll till they aro equally brown on both sides, and of a jjulo colour, then boil them in a quart of water till they become a sort of jelly. Cool a little in a spoon as a test. Strain over some juices of lemon-peel, and sweeten with sugar. A little wine may be added if preferred. Bread Omelet.—Mix equal quantities of bread-crumbs anil cream, a tea-spoonful of each, break an ounce of butter into bits, and add with it salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When the cream has been absorbed by the bread, beat it till smooth, with a fork, and mix it to three well- beaten eggs. Fry like an ordinary omelet. Time to fry, throe to four minutes. Bread Pudding.—Butter a shallow pie dish and three-parts till it with thin slices of bread and butter. Sprinkle sugar and flavour- ing over the layers. Pour on gradually a custard made with a pint of milk and two eggs. Soak awhile, and bake till set. Bread Pudding (another way).—Take fine bread-crumbs, and pour upon them as much boiling milk as they wiU absorb. Soak awhile, then for every table-spoonfid of bread allow one egg, well beaten; sweeten the mixtui-e agreeably and grate in a little nutmeg. Put it into a buttered basin, and boil from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the pudding. If baked, rather less time will do; it only requires to be a light brown. Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Soak half a pint of bread-crumbs with one pint of milk thrown on them while in a boiling state, and when the milk has become cold, add three well-beaten eggs, two ounces of currants, with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Mix aU well together, butter a basin, pour in the mixture, and keep it boiling, with a cloth securely tied over the top, for rather more than one hour. Pieces of bread unfit for the table, on account of their staleness, may be used up in bread puddings, by carefully soaking them, and then pressing them dry before they are added to the rest. Probable cost, 7d. SuflHicient for four or five persons. Bread Pudding with Onions.—Mix half a pound of bread-crumbs with a tea-spoon- ful of sage, two ounces of onions, and pepper and salt, with three-quarters of a pint of milk. Add two eggs well beaten, and bake in a quick oven. Bread, Pulled.—Pull the soft portion of a new loaf into rough pieces; let them be of equal size, say about two or three inches each way. Dry the pieces in a slow oven or before the fire, tiU they become a nice light brown colour, and when they are quite crisp they wiU be ready for use. Bread, Rice.—Allow one pound of rice to four pounds of wheat flour. The rice must be first boiled in milk or water, and while warm added to the flour, but care must be taken to see that the rice is thoroughly done. Mix all into a dough with a little yeast, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and sufficient warm water for the required consistency. When it has risen before the flro a proper time, make into loaves of any sliape, and bake according to size. This bread IS very delicious niude with a mixture of milk 1 robable cost, 8d. per four-pound loaf. Bread Sauce.—Take a little stale bread, and rub it through a wire sieve, or grate it, till two ounces of fine crumbs aro obtained. Put those into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a moderate-sized onion peeled, and six peijper- coms. Boil for ten minutes, and stir the sauco to keep it from burning. Lift it from the fire. Take out the onion and the peppercorns, stir in a small pat of butter, and two or three spoonfuls of cream, if it is to be had, and keep stirring tiU the butter is dissolved. Serve hot in a sauce tureen. Cooks often make the mistake of preparing this sauce some time before it is wanted, and this makes it pappy. If liked, a very little grated nutmeg can be added to the sauce, but most people would prefer that it should be omitted. Bread Sauce (another way).—stew the head, neck, and legs of poultrj' with an onion, a little mace, peppercorns, and salt. Take one pint of the broth when strained, pour it hot over twelve ounces of bread-crumbs, boil for ten minutes, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream. Time to make the broth, two hours. Bread Sauce (another way).—Cut a French roU, one day old, into thick sUces. Put them into a clean saucepan ; add a few pepper- corns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk enough to cover it. Let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till the bread soaks up the milk ; then add a little cream, take out the onions, and rub the whole through a sieve. Serve very hot. Bread Sauce for Partridges.—Moisten soft crumb of bread in milk, and simmer it by the side of the fire with the lid on the pan for about fifteen minutes. Then add some butter, and season with pepper and salt. Bread, Short.—To one pound and a half of flour add the following ingredients:— a quarter of a pound of candied orange and lemon- peel, cut small; the same of sweet almonds, blanched and cut; loaf sugar; and caraway comfits (some of the latter may be kept to strew over the top of the bread). Dissolve a pound of butter, and when it is getting cool pour it into the flour, and mix it quickly into a dough, with half a pound more flour. Then pour it into a large round cake of an inch in thickness ; di\ddo it into four parts, and pinch the edge of each piece neatly with the thumb and finger ; strew the caraway comfits over the top, with small devices of orange or citron- peel. Lay the cakes on floured paper, wliich is again to be placed upon tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty-.five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 6d^ Bread, Sippets of.—Cut slices of stale bread about the third of an inch thick, and trim into any form required. Frv them in butter till some are dark, but not "burnt, and some a light browTi. "NAHion they arc crisp, lay thom on a cloth to dry. "^tMion wanted to adhere to the edge of a dish, dip the end in a