(4?) stew, ten minutes. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. por pound. Beans, Frenchj Omelet of. — Cut up two table-spoonfuls oi French beans into small pieces, and stir them into four eggs which have been previously beaten; next add two table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, or any other mild cheese, and pepper and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole into a delicately clean omelet-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry a pale brown. Probable cost, 9d. Time, three to five minutes. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beans, French, Pickled.—Beans are seldom pickled alone, but are classed imder the head of mixed pickles. They may be put into a jar with gherkins, cauliflowers, radish-pods, capsicimis, onions, &c. As they are gathered young, the strings, a bit of the stalk, and the pointed ends are left on. Cover them with a strong brine of salt and water for two days, then wipe and put them into a jar. BoU one quart of vinegar with two ounces of peppercorns and half an ounce of mace; pour it over hot, and when quite cold cover. The pickle will be the better if the vinegar be re-boiled in twenty- four hours, and again thrown boiling over it. Probable cost of vinegar and spice. Is. Beans, French, Pickled (another way). —The beans should be gathered young. Place them in a strong brine of salt and water. When turning yellow, which wUl be in a day or two, remove them and wipe dry. Boil the vinegar with a little mace, whole pepper, and ginger (two ounces of pepper and half an ounce each of ginger and mace to each quart of vinegar); pour this over the beans. A small bit of alum, or a tea-spoonful of carbonate of potash, will bring back their colour. Cover them to keep in the steam and re-boil the vinegar the next day; throw over hot as before. Cover, but do not tie down until quite cold. Probable cost. Is. 3d. per quart. Beans, French, Pudding of .—Slip oflE the outer shell from French beans, either before or after they are boiled, and pound them in a mortar with pepper and salt to taste. Boil them in a buttered and well-floured cloth for half an hour. The cloth should be tied lightly to give them room to swell. This pudding looks better when put in a mould. Squeeze out aU the water from the cloth, put the beans into a plain shape, press them down very closely, and let the pudding stand a few minutes. Put a hot dish over the mould and turn the pudding out. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Pro- bable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, French, Salad of.—Take cold beans which have been well drained from the water. Saturate them with vinegar, and let them lie in it for twenty minutes. Drain again, and add some oil, if liked, and a little pepper and salt. Beans may be eaten with any saJad sauce. Beans, French, To Stew.—This is an excellent accompaniment to venison, veal, or any other cutlets. The beans should be cut, boiled. and drained according to recipe given for boiled beans. Then take a rich brown gravy, well flavoured with pepper and salt, put it into a stewpan, and when hot add the beans and simmer over a slow fire. Shake the pan to prevent them from burning, and serve in fifteen minutes. The cutlets may be put in the centre, or they may be served on the beans and gravy. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Beans, French, with Gravy.—Dis- solve four ounces of butter in a pan, and stir into it three ounces of flour till it becomes brown and quite smooth. Mix a little gravy and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Take any quantity of this; souse and simmer the beans, previously boiled, for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Allow one quart, for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot (a la Bretonne).—Put some butter into a stewpan with chopped onion and a Httle flour. Brovra, but do not blacken the butter ; pour in a little broth, or water. Stir till it is slightly thick, and season with salt and pepper. Put in the haricots already cooked and boiled; sunmer them about twenty minutes in the broth and serve hot. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Allow one quart for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Dried.—Soak the beans for twelve hours in soft water. Put them, when drained, into a saucepan of cold water without salt, and when half cooked change the water and replace it with warm water and a little salt. When done remove the lid to allow the beans to dry. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Allow one quart for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Dried (another way). —Soak one quart of haricot beans for two hours in cold water. Pour o£E the soaking water; put them into two quarts of water with a large table-spoonful of salt. Let them simmer until soft and mealy, then drain. Put them back into the saucepan with two ounces of butter, and seasoning of pepper and salt. Shake them until the butter is well melted and the beans hot through, and serve quickly. Time, from two to two and a half hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, Haricot, Plain Boiled. — Sprinkle over one quart of haricot beans, pre- viously boiled, tw^o table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and put them with two ounces of butter into a stewpan. Let them get thoroughly heated; shake the pan, and in about fifteen minutes serve in a hot vegetable dish. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Bechamel, Maigre.—Use milk and water instead of the stock made with animal juices. Blend one ounce of flour with one ounce of butter. Sinuner for twenty minutes the follow- ing ingredients in one pint of milk with half the quantity of water and a little salt: two or three small mushrooms, a few sprigs of parsley, two onions, and a blade of mace. ♦ When it haa