rRIN'CIPLES—WINE. Madeira, or sheiTy. Those who are a prey to spleen, lowness of spirits, and melancholy, are jn-one to select, as a sure and pleasant remedy for their frightful ailments, the wines of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Roussillon, and Burgundy. The bilious, who gene- rally are blessed with a good appetite, provided always that they do not smoke, require a generous wine which, wdaile capable of acting both as an astringent and a dissolvent of the bile, is of facile digestion; such are the properties of all first-class Bordeaux wines. Bordeaux is said to be a cold wine; this false notion arises out of mere prejudice—nothing can be more contrary to truth. This health-restoring wine^ as I have already stated, is easy of digestion, and possesses moreover the advantage of being very considerably less inebriating than any other first-class wine. In shorty Burgundy is exciting, Champagne is captious, Roussillon restorative, and Bordeaux stomachic. It now remains to show the order in which the several sorts of wines enumerated above should be served at table. Custom and fashion have ever had more to do with this practice than any real consideration for health or taste. It is generally admitted by real gourmets that red wines should precede the introduction of white wines— those recommended as proper accompaniments to oysters and fish excepted. The custom most in vogue at the best tables in London and Paris is to commence by introducing, simultaneously with the entrees, any of the followring Burgundy wines : —A-\allon, Coulanges, Tonnen-e, Vermanton, Irancy, Mercurey, Chassagne, and, generally, all those wines known under the specific names of Ma9on and Auxen-e. These may be varied or replaced by other -wines, denominated Saint Denis, Saint Ay, and Beaugency. Tliese again lead to the fux'ther libations of Beaune, Pommard, Volnay, Richebourg, Chambertin, Saint Georges, Romanee. "With the second course—roasts, dressed vegetables, and savoury entreimts—honour your guests by graciously ushering to their notice sparkling Champagne and Moselle, the deliciously perfumed Cumieres, the brilliant Sillery, the glorious Hennitage, Cote-rotie, and Chateau-Grille. With the service of the entremets de douceur—or, as we have it, the sweets—let iced-creaming, sparkling Champagne, or Moselle, be handed round; but^ far superior to them, I would recommend a trial of Ai petillant Arbois, Condrieux, Rivesaltes, Malaga, Frontignan, Grenache, Malmsey, Madeira, and East India Sherry." Mr. Francatelli then proceeds to state, " So little wine is drunk at dessert in this country that it would be superfluous to enter into particulars about the service further than to refer the reader to the list of wines appropriated to this part of a dinner, the list being as follows : Muscat - Fronti gnan Muscat-Lunel Muscat-Eivesalte Grenacho Vin de PaiUe Malaga Rota Alicante Dessert Wines. Madeira ]\Ialmaey, Madeira Syracuse Tokay Constance Carcavallos PicoH Schiras I have before observed that we all of us of necessity approach the subject of wine with a certain amount of prejudice, and I have consequently given at some length Mr. Francatelh's opinion on this subject, written in the year 1862 It should be remembered, too, that Mr. Francatelli occupied during his life the high positions