CAN ( 103 ) CAN Canadian Cotobler—Half fill a soda- water glass with pounded ice, and add half a small lemon sliced, a dessert-spoonful of sugiu-, and two glasses of sherry. Mix well together, and dnnk through a straw. Time to make, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d., e.\clusive of the sherry. Sufficient for one person. Canadian Pudding.—Mix six table- spoonfuls of maizcna or Indian corn-flour, one quart of milk, and the thin rind of half a lemon, in a saucepan, and let it boU, stirring all the time. Let it cool; then mix with it four eggs well beaten, and a little sugar, and pour it into a well-buttered mould which has been garnished with raisins placed in rows. Steam it for two hours, and serve with -wine sauce. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six persons. Canapes.—Take slices of the crumb of bread about half an inch thick, and stamp them out in rounds, ovals, or diamonds, then fry them in boiling oil or butter till they are lightly browned. These form the foimdation of the canapes. They maybe seasoned and garnished with anchovy, shiimp, or lobster paste, toasted cheese, hard-boUed eggs, cucumbers, beetroot, parsley, salad, ci-esses, celery, gherkins, prawns, craj'fish, or salmon. A combination of two or three things gives them a handsomer appear- ance. They should be dished on a napkin and garnished with parsley, &c. Thne to fry, ten minutes. Canard (aux Pois).—Take the remains of cold duck, and cut it iato neat joints. Lay these in a stewpan with half a pound of the breast of bacon, cut into pieces about an inch square, and about two ounces of butter. When lightly browned, cover the meat with nicely-flavoured stock, which must be thickened with a spoonful of flour, and add a bunch of parsley, two or three green onions, pepper and siilt to taste, and a small piece of sugar. Let these simmer gently for twenty minutes, add one quart of freshly- gathered young green peas, which have been thoroughly washed in cold water, and siromer again untU the peas are sufficiently cooked. Skim the fat from the gravy, and serve the peas ia the middle, the pieces of duck round them, and the gravy in a tureen. Time, one hour. Probable cost, about Is. 6d., exclusive of the cold duck. Sufficient for four or five persons. Canard Farci.—Bone a duck, and fill it with a forcemeat made with three large onions boiled and chopped, three small apples, finely minced, a breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of sage, a tea-spoonful each of mustard, sugar, and salt, as much popper and powdered mace as will stand on a sixpence, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Secure it firmly. Tie it in a cloth, and stew it gently until sufficiently cooked in some good stock. Serve it with green peas or mashed turnips. Time to stew, one hour. Probable cost, from 28. to 3s. each. Sufficient for three persons. Canary Cream.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with a little sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. When boiling, pour it upon the beaten yolks of three eggs. Return it to the stewpan, and stir it over a slow fire till the eggs thicken, and be very careful that it does not curdle. When cool, stir in a small glass of sherry or brandy to flavour it, and serve in custard glasses. Time, twenty minutes. I Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for a dozen small glasses. Cannelon (a la Pran9aise).—Mince a pound of underdxessed beef and half a pound of bacon, and mix them well together, season with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of marjoram and thyme. Bind all together with beaten egg, form the mince into a roll, tie some white oiled paper round it to keep it in shape., and bake it in a moderate oven. When suffi- ciently cooked, take ofit the paper, put the roll in a dish, and pour good brown gravy round it. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold meat. Cannelons (see Beef Cannelons). Cannelons (a la Poulette).—Take the re- mains of cold chicken and half the quantity of cold ham; mince and mix them thoroughly with a little good white sauce. Roll out some good light paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it into pieces two inches long and one inch wide. Place a little of the mix- ture on half of these pieces, and with the others cover each one; press the edges, and round them. Fry them in hot fat. Drain, and serve on a napkin. Time to fry, a minute or two, till they are Hghtly browned. Probable cost, ^d. each, exclusive of the cold meat. Cannelons, G-lazed—Cannelons may bo baked instead of fried. They are made exactly in the same way, excepting that just before they are sent to the oven they must be brushed over lightly with a paste brush which has been dipped into a well-beaten egg. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, one pound of puff paste for a large dish. Cannelons of Brioche Paste.—Brioche paste may be substituted for puff paste in making cannelons. The paste must be rolled very thia, and they should be served hot and dry. Cannelons, or Pried Puffs.—Make some fine puff paste {see Puif Paste). Roll it very thin, and cut it into pieces two inches wide and six inches long. Place a tea-spoonful of jam on each piece, and roll it over twice. Press the edges (which mutt bo l)r\!i-:l:( il with CANNELONS. water or the white of egg), and fry the canne- lons ia hot fat. When they begin to brown,