BEE baato uuspiiriiigly and aprinklo ovor it a little Bait. Whou hiilf (lono draw it a littlo nearor; continue to baste, and flour gently with a dredger. The moat should look frothy when served, and this can only bo obtained by thorough basting. Give it the usual time—a quarter of an hour to a pound; a little longer if liked very well done, or the weather is frosty and the meat solid. Time, quarter of an hour to each pound. Probable cost of sirloin, Is. per pound. Beef, Sirloin of, Roast (a la St. Florontin). —^Tako out the suet and lay it thickly over tho top of tho iillet, secured down with a well- huttored paper. First tie the flap under tho fillet, and make all firm before it is put to the spit. About ten minutes before it is done take ott" the paper and froth tho meat by di-edging ib lightly with sjilt and dry flour, and basting i', with butter. Servo with Robert Sauce in a tureen. Probable cost of beef, Is. per pound. Beef, Sirloin of. To Carve.—A sirloin should bo cut with one good firm stroke from end to end of the joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean and even from a b to c. Then disengage it from the bone by a SIRLOIN OF BEEF. horizontal cut exactly to the bone, b to d, using the tip of the knife. Bad carving bears the hand away to the rind of the beef, eventually, after many cuts, peeling it back to the other side, leaving a portion of the best of the meat adhering to the bone. Every slice should be clean and even, and the sirloin should cut fairly to the very end. Many persons cut the under side whilst hot, not reckoning it so good cold; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat, e, which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. Then tho under part can be cut, as already described, from end to end, f to o, or do^vnwards,. as shown by the marks at h. Beef Skirts.—Those should be broiled— they are best so—but if liked may be stewed in a little brown gravy seasoned with a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and another of shalot vinegar, with a thickening of butter and flour. If broiled, serve over spinach or toasts fried and seasoned with pepper and salt. Time to broil, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Beef, Spanish, Prico.—Cut up two pounds of the fillet, riuup, or round of bocf into pieces weighing about an ounce each, and add cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Buil two I)ound8 ot potatoes and cut tliein into good thick slices; place tlu^m with ihu meat and a small cup of gravy in a close-fitting stewpan in alternate layers. Add a quarter of a pound of butter and as much Spanish onion, previously boiled and sliajd, as may be liked. Stew gently for an hour, and when nearly done throw a glass of Madeint or claret over all. Probable cost, 38. '6d. Suflicient for four or five persons. Beef, Spiced.—A small round of alxjut eighteen or twenty pounds will take a fortnight to cure. Prepare the following ingredients: one pound of common salt, one ounce of saltpetre, three ounces of allspice, one of black pepper- corns, and half a pound of coarse sugar. Pound the saltpetre, allspice, and black peppercorns, and mix well together with the salt and sugar. Hub all into the meat; do this every day and turn, for the time mentioned. Then wash off the brine, put it into an earthenware pan, with about a pint of water and a layer of suet over and imder, with a common paste over all; bake from six to eight hours, and allow it to cool thoroughly before using. Probable cost of meat, lOd. to lid. per pound. Beef steak. — Let the steak be about three-quarters of an inch thick (rump, for broiling, is the best); rub the gridiron with a little fat to prevent the meat from sticking, and place it with the steak over a sharp clear fire—no smoke, of course ; turn frequently with a knife or steak tongs, but do not prick the meat with a fork, as the gravy will escape and the meat become hard. Serve in a hot dish with a httle mushroom ketchup, or other sauce or gravy at discretion, taking care to put a little butter first, melted over the steak, should it be a lean one. In any case it makes the steak look better. Probable cost, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per poimd. Time, eight to ten minutes to broU. Half a pound to each person is considered sufficient. When purchasing steak it is well to remember that, when it can be afforded, rump steak or slices from the undercut of the sirloin is best for broiling, for pies, for stewing, for beef-tea, indeed, for almost every purpose. When these are not to be had, chuck steak is the best for stewing, buttock steak for broiling, and steak from the bladebone or shoulder-piece for pics. The roll of the bladebone is admi- rably adapted for making beef-tea, and beef skirting yields very rich gravy. Beef steak (a la Fmncjaise).—They are best cut from the inner side of the sirlom, but any prime part will do. Place two pounds of steaks in a dish vdih a little of the best Lucca oil, and let them steep in it for eight or ten hours; add to them pepper, salt, and a little finelv-minced parsley, and fry them until they are brown; what remains in the pan may be thrown over the steaks. Butter may be sub- stituted for oil if preferred, and the steaks served up around the dish with olive sauce in the centre. Average cost of beef, Is. 4d. per