( 369 ) LEM LEM Lemon and Liver Sauce for Fowls. —Wash and scoro the liver of the fowl, and "boil it for live minutes; drain it, and pound it in a moi-tar with two or thi-oe spoonfuls of good gra\T. Piire olE the thin outer rind of a lemon, and mince it finely; remove the thick wliite akin, cut the pulp into small pieces, mix with it a tea-spoonful of the minced rind, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and stir the whole into half a pint of good melted hutter. Make the sauce hot over the fire, hut it must not hoil, for fear the butter should oU. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lemon and Orange Candied Rings for Garnishing {see Orange and Lemon Candied Eings). Lemon and Orange Juice for Colds [see Orange and Lemon Juice). Lemon and Rhubarb Jam.—Rhubarb jam is very much improved if flavoured with lemon-rind. "Wipe the rhubarb very dry—if old, it must be skinned—cut it into small pieces, and weigh it. Allow a pound of sugar, the rind of half a large lemon, chopped small, and half an ounce of bitter almonds to each pound and a quarter of rhubarb; boU all together very gently, until the sugar is dissolved, and keep stirring, to prevent burning; the jam may then be allowed to boil more quickly. When done, put it into jars, cover with oiled and egged or gummed papers, and store in a cool, dry place. Khubarb jam should be used quickly, as it does not keep well. Time to boil the fruit, reckon- ing from the time when the sugar is dissolved, and it simmers equally all over, an hour for young rhubarb, an hour and a half for old. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint of sUced rhubarb for a pound of jam. ' Lemon Biscuits.—Eub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, then crush it to powder. Work three oimces of fresh butter into half a pound of fine flour, add the powdered sugar, and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. When thoroughly mixed, add last of aU the whites of ths egga, whisked to a firm froth; stir all briskly for two or three minutes, then drop the cakes upon a baking-sheet, a little apart from each other, and bake in a moderate oven. Two or three oimces of currants may be added, if liked. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a dozen and a half biscuits. Lemon Blancmange.—Take the thin rind of two fresh lemons, and put it into a basin with a quarter of a pint of cold water or cold milk, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it stajjd for an hour or more. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water, and when nearly cold mix it with the lemon-water. Add the yolks of three eggs, beaten up with half a pint of thick cream, put the mixture into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes; then pour it out, stir it again until nearly cold, to prevent it skinning, and put it into a wet mould. Time to prepare, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a pint of blancmange. Lemon Blancmange (another way).— Put half a pint of milk into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon and two ounces of ground rice, and stii- over the fire until tho mixture thiclccns. Add some custard made with half a pint of milk and tho weU-beaten yolks of thi'oe eggs, and mix both custard and ground rice thoroughly ; sweeten with a quarter of a pound of sugar, add half an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine, dissolved in another half-pint of milk, and when nearly cold stir in the strained lemon-juice. Put the mixture into an oiled mould, and turn it out when wanted. Time, an hour to ])repare. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Lemon Brandy (for flavouring custardj and sweet dishes).—Take the thin rind of half a dozen fresh lemons, and put them in a bottle with a pint of brandy. Let them infuse for six weeks, then strain the liquid, and put it in small bottles, cork and seal secm-ely, and put aside for use. Probable cost, lemons. Id. each. Sufficient for a pint of lemon brandy. Lemon Brandy (another way). — See Brandy, Lemon. Lemon Bread Pudding, Baked.— Grate three ounces of the stale crumb of bread very finely, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of sugar and the grated rind of three lemons; add a quarter of a pint of cream and the same of milk. Mix the dry ingredients very thoroughly, then add the strained juice of the lemons, and six well-beaten eggs, omitting the whites of two. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d.- Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Bread Pudding, Boiled.— Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, add a pinch of salt, six ounces of finely grated bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of flour, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the finely minced rind and strained juice of a lemon, half a pint of milk, and two eggs well beaten. IMix thoroughly. Butter a plain pudding-mould rather thickly, ornament the inside with raisins, candied fruit, or sliced lemon-rind, pour in the pudding, cover it with a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boU quickly until done enough. Turn it out on a dish, and send to table a sauce made as follows, poured round it:— Put the thin rind and juice of a lemon in half a pint of water, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and simmer gently over the fire for twenty minutes; add two or three drops of cochineal and a table-spoonful of gin, and it is ready to serve. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lemon Bread Puddings, Boiled (another way).—JNIix half a poimd of grated bread-crumbs, with a quarter of a pound of finely-shred suet or beef marrow. Add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, the giated rind and strained juice of a fresh lemon, a table-spoonful of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat for ten minutes. Divide the mix- ture into half a dozen balls, tie these in small floiired cloths, plunge them into boiling water, and boil quickly. Serve with brandy sauq©.