( 496 ^ OYS OYS finely-nunced parsley sprinkled on the top Brown bread and buttisr may be eaten with them. Probable coat, oysters, Is. 6d. per dozen. Oysters, Pie of (for picnics, luncheons, or Buppors).—Butter the inside of a shallow pio- diali rather thickly, and line the edges witii a good puff-paste. Open and board two dozen fresh oysters, lay them in the dish, season with a little salt and cayenne and half a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, and sprinkle over them three table-spoonfuls of hnely-gratod bread-crumbs. Mix the strained oyster hquor with the same quantity of thick cream and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Poui- this sauce over the oysters, put the cover on the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. A quarter of a pound of the kidney fat of a loin of veal, or a small boiled sweetbread cut into thin slices, is some- times put into the pie with the oysters. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Pillau of.—Wash six ounces of Patna or small-grained rice in several waters, and caref ully pick out the unhusked grains. Drain the rice, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of boiling and rather highly-seasoned gravy. Keep the pan uncovered, stir a little at first, to prevent the rice getting into lumps, and let it boil very quickly until it is quite soft, but un- broken, then throw it into a colander, and let it drain near the fire until it is quite dry. Pile it lightly round a dish, and fill the hollow in the middle with a pint of oyster sauce made according to the directions given further on. Serve very hot. Time, fifteen or twenty minutes to boil the rice. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Oysters, Plaice Filleted and Stewed with, {see Plaice Filleted and Stewed with Oysters). Oysters, Poulets and.—Roast a couple of chickens in the usual way. Open two dozen oysters, and scald them in their own liquid for two minutes. Beard them, and put them aside to cool. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, and mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add the oyster liquor, three table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, a. pinch of cayenne, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of white pepper. Stir the sauce gently over the fire until it boils, take it off the fire, add six drops of lemon juice and the oysters, and either pour the sauce over the fowls, or serve it separately in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to prepare the sauce. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. sufficient for six or eight persons. Oysters, Powder of (for flavouring sauces, &c., when oysters are not in season).— Open a dozen fresh oysters, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar with two drachms of salt, then press them through a hair sieve. Mix with them as much dried flour as will make them into a smooth paste; this will be a little more than two ounces. Roll the mixture out three or four times, and the last time leave it the eighth of an inch thick. Stamp it into small cakes, dredge these with flour, dry them gradually in a cool ovon, and bo very careful that they do not bum. To prevent this ^fl ^'''■"'•'^ '^^^^ t^'^nty minutes. When the cakes are quite dry, crush them to powder, and put tluim into small bottles, cork and seal tliem securely, and store in a dry idace. When sauce is wanted mix three drachms of the powder smoothly with an ounce of butter and six table-spoonfuls of milk Stir tho sauce over a gentle lire until it boils, mwaon it with a pinch of cayenne, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. Time, four or five hours to dry the cakes. Probable cost of oysters Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Allow tlu-ee drachma of jwwder for half a puit of sauce. Oysters, Preserved, How to Cook. —Open the tin, take out tho oysters care- fully, and put them on a liot dish in the oven, so that they may be gradually warmed. Strain the liquor which was with them in tho tin, and put it into a saucepan with the same quantity of milk and a little salt and cayenne, and let it get quite hot, then thicken it with a little flour and butter, and let it boil. Strain it over the oysters, and serve immediately. Send pepper and vinegar to table with this dish. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sauce of, Brown.—In making this sauce, allow at least three oysters for each person. Open them very carefully, to preserve every drop of their liquor, then beard them, and if the oysters are large, halve, or even quarter them. Mix two ounces of butter very smoothly with an ounce of flour, add the strained oyster liquor, half a pint of brown gravy, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Keep stirring one way until the sauce is quite smooth; let it boil, then put in the oysters, and let them remain in the hot sauce for two or three seconds onl^; they must not be allowed to boil, or they will shrink and turn leathery. Serve the sauce very hot. A tea-spoonful of anchovy will bring out the flavour. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for six persons. Oysters, Sauce of. Brown (another way).—^Brown a table-spoonful of flour and a finely-minced shallot in two ounces of fresh butter until they are brightly browned, add a quarter of a pint of good brown stock, a pinch of cayenne, a little pepper and salt, and the oyster liquor, and stir tho sauce until it is smooth and thick. Let it boil, then draw the pan to the side, and add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of claret, and a dozen oysters, which have been bearded and cut into quarters. When these are warm through, the sauce is ready for serving. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Sauce of. Mock.—Cut three anchovies into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of water, half a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and two cloves. Simmer very gently imtil the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the liquor, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and mix with it enough milk or cream to make up half a pint. Servo very hot. Or, stir a tea- spoonful of anchovy essenco into half a pint a*