PRINCIPLES—BOILING. xlix SO far as liotness goes, entii-ely depends upon the size of the pinch of cayenne pepper. Tlie other kind of devil sauce is of quite a different character, and has the advantage of being made in a few moments, and also of consisting only of materials that are nearly certain to be at hand. Take say an ounce or a little more of butter, and dissolve it in a stewpan, but do not oil the butter or allow the stewpan to get too hot. Mix in a spoonful of made mustard, and a little mixed black and cayenne pepper, and stir the whole well together. The sauce should resemble thick custai-d, both in appearance and consistency. This sauce should not be poured over the grilled meat until the very last moment. Care also should be taken not to have the plate so burning hot so that it will dissolve the butter into oil. Kecollect, the only secret of making this sauce successfully is not over- heating it. This sauce, poured over a nicely-grilled chop at breakfast-time, often has the effect of enabling a person with a delicate appetite to take meat, when, without the stimulant of the sauce, they would be unable to touch any. We have already discussed the general principles of cooking to be observed both in frying and boiling. I would, however, remind you, in choosing a joint, such as a leg of mutton, when it is for boiling and not for roasting, it is advisable to have it rather fresher. A leg of mutton for roasting may be left till it is on the verge of turning. Not so a leg for boiling. First, if the mutton be kept too long it will be of a very bad colour when sent to table; secondly, the liquor in which it was boiled will not be fit for anything. In boOing a leg of mutton, it shoidd always be borne in mind that even with the greatest care some considerable amount of nourishment will get out into the water. Indeed, it would be a very practical lesson, not only to cooks but to heads of households, to make a few experiments in weighing materials befoi'e roasting or boiling and after. They should remember, too, that tliere is no such thing in nature as annihilation. Very often when turnips are a little old, the cook, in order to save herself a very little trouble, will boil all the turnips with the leg of mutton, thei'eby rendering the liquor too sweet to make soup. To my mind, one great drawback to salt beef is that even with plenty of soaking pi'e- viously in cold water, the liquor in which the beef is boiled is unfit for making soup. I have no hesitation in saying that in all fairly-sized establishments the refuse of the joints should be sufficient to enable the family to have soup every day. By " refuse " I mean the water in which meat is boiled, the trimmings, &c., but especially the bones left from joints. A silver-side of beef when fresh if boiled makes capital soup, and yet cases are found where such liquor is absolutely thrown away. I recollect once on board ship seeing the cook empty overboard the liquor in which had been boiled—over-boiled, of course—a huge fresh aitch- bone of beef Waste is absolutely sinful; and when we consider for one moment that we injure our fellow-creatures more by ^"^asting a leg of mutton than by burning a £20 note, we shall the better realise the importance of economy in cooking in its strictest sense. The truest economy is to get the gi-eatest amount of nourishment possible out of the materials we use. Nor should we waste because the materials are cheap and plentiful. Even were it in our power to multiply food to a miraculous extent, it would still no less be our duty to gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. In boiling poultry of all kinds, it should be our endeavour to obtain—just as in boiling fish—a good colour, and of coui-se the principle is the same. Id