CAL ( 02 ) CAL TWELITU Veal a la Boiidykk Venktian Victoria Vienna Watku WuiTK Yeast youkshirb Yule Caledonian Cream.—Mix thoroughly two ounces of raspborry jam, two ounces of red currant jelly, and two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, with the whites of two eggs which have boon boiitcn to a finn froth. Beat them for three-quarters of an hour. This miikos a very pretty cream, inexpensive and good. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small dish. CalTs Brains la Fran^aise).—Fry eighteen button onions to a light brown in butter, stir in a table-spoonful of flour, and then add equal quantities of broth and French red wine, a quarter of a pint or more of each, put in a Little salt and pepper, and simmer half an hour. Put the brains into this, remembering first to wash and sldn them; boil them in salted water mixed with a tea-spoonful of vinegar for ten minutes, and lay them in cold water until wanted. Add a dozen small mush- rooms, and simmer eight or ten minutes until they are done. Serve with the sauce, and gar- nish with the onions and mushroomfl. Time to boil the sauce, haH an hour. CalTs Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel) . -Re- move the skin and the fibres from two sets of calves' brains. Wash them several times in cold water, then place them in boiling water, adding a table-spoonful of vinegar, a little salt, and a small piece of butter. Let them boil for about half an hour, then remove and divide them. Cut some thin slices of stale bread into roimds, fry them in boiling butter or oil, place the brains on the bread, and pour over the whole ' Maitre d'Hotel sauce. Probable cost of the i calf's head (the brain is not sold without), 5s. to 9s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calfs Brains (en Matelote).—"Wash the brains in several waters, remove the skin, and boil them in salt and water, with a little vinegar in it, for ten minutes. Take them out and lay them in cold water unto, they are wanted. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, let it melt, mix smoothly with it a tea-spoonful of flour. Put to this three small onions sliced, then add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a clove, a bay-leaf, half a pint of stock, and a glass of white wine. When these are mixed thoroughly together, put the brains with them, and let them stew gently until they are done. Time to stew, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for two or three per- sons. Calfs Brains, Fried.—Wash the brains in several waters, take off the skin and remove the fibres, then boil them in salt and water, with a little vinegar, for ten minutes. Cut the brains into slices, moisten them with vinegar, salt and popper, dip them in a little batter, and fry in boiling oil or butter. Fry a bimch of parsley, dry it before the fire, and put it in the middle of a hot dish with the brains round it. Time to fry, four or five minutea. Suffi- cient for two persons. Cairs Brains, Pried (another way) Wash the braiuH, pick them clean, and let them iio m cold water for an hour. Boil them in water with a little vinegar for ton minutes, cool and cut tliem into Klices. Drain and dip them into a batter made with two table-spoonfuls of baked Hour, two eggs, and a quarter of a pint ot cream ; this batter should be well beaten for fifteen mmutes before it is used. Half fill an iron saucepan with frying fat, make this hot, then fry cjich piece, well dipped in batter, till it 18 a pale brown colour. Send them to table with a, bunch of fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and the slices of brains round it. They should be served very hot. Time, fifteen minutes to fry. Calf's Brains and Green Sauce.— Wash the brains in several waters, remove the skin, and cut each in four pieces. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt and water, and half a gill of vinegar, and boil quickly for half an hour. Put into another saucepan a piece of butter the size of a large egg; let it melt, then mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour, a cupful of stock, and a little salt and pepper. Let these boil up, then stir into the sauce a dessert-spoonful each of chopped mushroom, chopped gherkins, and parsley boiled and minced. Drain the brains, place them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round them. Sufficient for two persons. Probable cost of sauce, 6d. or 7d. the half-pint. CalTs Brains and Parsley.—Remove the skin and the fibres, and wash the brains in several waters. Boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a table-spoonful of vine- gar and a little butter. Drain and divide them. Then put a little fried parsley in the middle of a hot dish, place the brains round them, and pour browned butter over the whole. Time to boil the brains, about half an hour. Sufficient for two persons. Calf's Brains and Tongue. — Remove the skin and the fibres, and wash the brains in several waters. Boil them in salt and water, and drain and chop them. Put them in a saucepan with half a cupful of melted butter, a tea-spoonful of parsley which has been boiled and chopped, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little salt and cayenne pepper. Skin and trim the boiled tongue, place it in the middle of the dish, and pour the sjiuce round it. Time to boil the brains, a quarter of an hour. The brains of one head will serve for a tongue. Calfs Brains with Wine.—Wash and skin the breuns, and blanch them in boiling salt and water mixed with vinegar. Put two or three rashers of bacon into a stewpan, with two sliced carrots, two sliced onions, two cloves, one bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a bunch of thyme, a little pepper and salt, and a glass of white wine. Add the brains, and let all simmer gently. When done, strain the gravy, and pour it roimd the brains. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Calfs Chitterlings, Praise, or Crow, These are the difi'erent names given to the fat