(61) top, and two glasses of Madeira, and a small qiiantity of mace into the pan and bake. Allow twenty minutes for the baking of each pound of beef. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Beef, Salt—Take a piece of beef weighing seven or eight pounds and cover it with brown sugar, well rubbed in, and Jillow it to remain for five or six hom-s; then powder half an ounce of saltpetre and press this equally on all sides to give it a colour; next, cover it with common salt and let it stay till the next day. Turn it, and rub with the salt in the pan for five or six days ; throwing the brine over it at the same time with a spoon or ladle. This mode of salting improves the flavour and prevents the meat becoming hard. Probable cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Beef, Salt, Fried.—Season some thin slices, about one pound, of under-dressed beef, with pepper and salt; put them into a clean frjong-pan with a little butter, and fry imtil they become a light brown colour; mash some potatoes, serve them very hot with the slices of beef laid on them, and garnish with slices of cucimiber or pickled gherkins. Time, about five minutes for meat. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for two persons. Beef Sauce, Piquante.—Put one ouitce of butter and four table-spoonfuls of vinegar into a stewpan with four finely-chopped shalots, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the butter becomes clear, then add one ounce of flour and stir three or four minutes; take one pint of bouilli or common stock broth, a little colouring, and one-eighth of an ounce of pepper ; boil all together fifteen minutes, then add one table-spoonful of chopped gherkins and one of minced parsley, boil up, skim, and serve with bouilli separately in a sauce tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Beef Sausages.—Clear the beef and suet from all skin, bone, and gristle; take two pounds of lean beef to one pound of suet, add salt, pepper, and mixed spice, and shalots, or any other tasty condiment, according to liking, chop very fine and mix well together. Some cooks prefer to pound the whole in a mortar, but if the meat is well .minced this is needless. Eoli the meat into sausages and fry until it becomes a nice brown colour, and serve in the usual way, with mashed potatoes roimd the dish. They are more delicate if pressed into skins. It is worth notice that all meat cooked with the sldn retains its original flavour, and is much preferred by connoisseurs. Time to fry, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Beef Sausages (Home Made).—Eemove all the skin and gristle from two pounds of lean beef, and mince it very finsiy with one pound and a half of good fresh suet; add, as a seasoning, one tea-spoonful of powdered sage, the same of thyme and allspice, with salt and pepper to taste; fill thoroughly clean bkias, and boil as directed for black puddings. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost for this (piantity, about Ss. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Shin of. Soup.—Take three or four poimds of shin of beef, cut the meat into two or three slices down to the bone, which should remain imdividod and still enclosed _ia the flesh. Plug up each end of the bone with a stiff paste made of flour and water, to keep in the .marrow. Set it on the fire in a large pot of cold water, with six or eight peppercorns and three or four cloves. Kemove the scum as it rises. Season slightly with salt; otherwise, by continued boiling and warming-up, the broth will be so reduced as to become too salt. Let it boil gently for four hours, then make it boil fast, ana throw in a few peeled turnips, carrots, and oaions, wdth a small bunch of thyme and parsley. When the vegetables are tender, serve the soup vrith bits of toasted bread floating in it. When the soup has been served, take up the beef, remove the slices of meat from the bone, separate them, if needed, with a knife and fork, put them in the middle of a hot di&ii, and arrange the vegetables round them, cutting the carrots and turnips into shapely bits. For sauce, fry chopped onions brown, stir in amongst them a dessert-spoonful of flour, diluted with a little of the soup, two dessert-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt, stir all together, and pour it over the slices of shin, and serve. For the marrow: toast a large round of bread, lay it on a hot plate, spread the marrow roughly on it, season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard, cut it into as many pieces as there are guests, and serve very hot. Beef, Shin of, Stewed.—This meat is best adapted to stewing. The liquor is used, when boiled in a quantity of water, for soups, wdth the addition of other meat and ingredients to improve it. For stewing, saw the bone into many pieces and put it iuto a stewpan, with suffi- cient water to cover it; bring it to a boil and take off the scmn, this must be done thoroughly, and the meat drawn aside to simmer; add to it some celery cut iato pieces, one good-sized onion, twelve black peppercorns, a bimch of sweet herbs, three or four small carrots, and the same of cloves, or about half a tea-spoonful of allspice; season wdth pepper and salt, and let the whole stew very gently for four hours ; boil some carrots and turnips sepeirately, cut them into shapes, and serve with the meat. Pro- bable cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient for seven or eight per!?on.s. Beef, Sirloin of. Roast.—^It is said by some modern cooks that a joint of meat should be first put near the fire to harden the surface and keep in the juice, and then drawn back from it to roast very slowly. The old mode of cooking differs in this particular of beginning at a dis- tance of about twelve inches from the fire, and gradually drawing it nearer as the joint ap- proaches to being thoroughly cooked. There is so much to be said in favour of the latter mode, since a joint may be roasted with half the fuel used for the former, that the recipe here given is for the old method. Make choice of a nice sirloin weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds; dredge it over with flour, and place it on the spit, at a distance of eighteen inches, of course supposing the fire to bo large and bright,