HAK HAG (291 ) Haggis, English.-Take the heart, toniAue, kidneys, uiul part of the hver ot the sheep; and if this is not likely to be enough, add the meatfi-om a sheep's head. Weigh these ingredients, and take half their weight in fat bacon. Mince aU very finely, and add the crumb of a penny roll, grated, two pounded anchovies, a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-rind, and a little pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly, and moisten •with two beaten eggs and a glass of wine. 'Take a well-buttered mould, put in the mix- ture, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for two hours. Turn the haggis out on a hot dish before serving. Sufficient, without the head, for six or eight persons. Haggis, Lamb's.—Take a lamb's paunch, thoroughly cleansed and white, and see that it is quite whole, sew up any thin places there may be in it, and press it in a soft cloth, to dry it thoroughly. Boil the pluck in water till it is sufficiently cooked, then mince it finely, and mix with, it a pound of finely-shred beef suet, a pound of oatmeal, six or eight young onions, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nut- meg, grated, two eggs, well beaten, and half a pint of milk. When these are thoroughly mixed, put them into the paunch, and be care- ful not to fill it so full as to leave no room for swelling. It would be safer if the haggis were tied in a cloth as well as in the bag. Boil gently for three hours, turn out in a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons.' Haggis, Mutton [see Mutton Haggis). Haggis, Royal [see Kew Mince or Haggis Eoyal). Haggis, Scotch.—Take the stomach of a sheep, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold salt and water, then turn it inside out, put it into boiling water to scald, scrape it quickly with a knife, and let it remain in water until wanted. Clean a sheep's pluck thoroughly. Pierce the heart and the liver in several places, to let the blood run out, and boil the liver and lights for an hour and a half. When they have boiled a quarter of an hour, put them into fresh water, and, during the last half hour, let the rest of the pluck be boiled with them. Trim away the skins, and any dis- coloured parts there may be, grate half of the liver, and mince all the rest very finely; add a pound of finely-shred suet, two chopped onions, half a pint of oatmeal, or, if preferred, half a poimd of oat-cakes, toasted and crumbled, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, and one of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, and a grain of cayenne! Moisten with half a pint of good gravy and the juice of a small lemon, and put the mixture into the bag already prepared for it. Be care- ful to leave room for swelling, sew it securely, and plunge it into boiling water. It wiH re- quire three hours' gentle boiUng. Prick it with a needle every now and then, especially during the first half hour, to let the air out. A haggis should be sent to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor gravy should be served with it. The above is sufficient for eight or ten porsons. Haggis, with Fruit and Sugar.— Haggis is sometimes made sweet—that is, a' pound of picked currants, a pound of stoned raisins, and half a pint of sherry are added to the ingredients of the English haggis {see Haggis, English), and the haggis is then boiled in a calf's bladder. When it is made in this way, sugar should be sent to table with it. Time to prepare, three hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hake.—Hake is a west-country fish, com- mon in Devonshire, and often sold under the name of white salmon. It would be highly esteemed if it were expensive; but as it is cheap it is little used except amongst the poor. It may be cooked in the same way as halibut {see Halibut), but it is certainly most palatable when baked, as in the following recipes. If a whole fish be bought, and is too large to be used in one day, the thick part may be cut into steaks, and the tail end salted and put aside. It is, however, best when fresh. It it in season in the summer months. Hake, Baked.—Cut four pounds of hake into slices rather more than half an inch thick. Dry them well, and rub them over with flour. Grate four ounces of stale crumbs of bread. Mix with them a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced onions, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a salt- spoonfiLl of pepper. Put an ounce of good butter or dripping at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley and onion over; then place the slices of hake upon it, first covering them thickly with the seasoned crumbs. Divide two ounces of butter or drip- ping into little pieces, and lay them here and there in the dish. Pour a quarter of a pint of gravy or water underneath, and bake in a good oven. Send the gravy cooked with them to table with the fish. It is an improvement to grate a little cheese over the fish before putting it in the oven. If the flavour of the onions is disliked, they should be omitted, and a small bunch of sweet herbs or a few chopped mush- rooms substituted. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, hake, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hake, Baked (another way).—Take four pounds of hake, cut it into slices rather more than half an inch thick, dry them well, and strew over them two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one of powdered ginger, and two of finely-minced onions, or, if the fiavour of these is not liked, two tea-spoonfuls of powdered herbs, two-thirds parsley and one-third thyme. Put a piece of butter or good dripping the size of an egg into a deep dish, lay the slices of fish upon it. Make some sauce by mixing two ounces of flour smoothly with a pint of milk; boU the milk and flour, and with them an onion stuck with two cloves, and a pinch of pepper and salt. Strain the sauce, pour it over the fish, and bake in a good oven for half an hour. A little scalded and chopped parsley may be strewn over the top to improve the appearance of the dish. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Hake Cutlets, Pried.—Cut two poimda of hake into cutlets, dry them well, and dip