IND ( 325 ) IND loaves which should bo allowed to rise foi nearly half an hour before being baked. Time, an hour and three-quarters to two hours. Suffi- cient for two loaves. Indian Corn-flour Bread (another ^y).—See Bread, Indian Corn. Indian CresSjNasturtiums, Pickled. The young leaves and flowers are some- times used as an ornamental addition to salads. The berries should be gathered in August and September for pickling; they are used by some as a substitute for capers. Put them as they are gathered, after rubbing them in a di-y cloth, into vinegar, and allow to each quart two ounces of salt, and fifteen pepper- corns. Put the vinegar, &c., into bottles, and fill with the nasturtium seed as it is gathered fi-om day to day. When full, cork tightly. Indian cress is seldom to be bought, but it is easily cultivated, and thrives well in poor soil. Indian Cress, Nasturtiums, Pickled (another way).—Gather the nasturtiums before they get old and dry. Wash the grit from them in cold water, and sprinkle well with salt. Drain them the next day, and when quite dry scatter amongst them, in an earthen picklo-jar, whole pepper, a few cloves, tarragon leaves, and sliced horseradish. Pour vinegar enough to cover, and let it be cold. Indian Crumpets.—Stir into a quart of warmed milk two large table-spoonfuls of yeast, a httle salt, and as much wheat flour as will thicken the milk to a batter. Cover it up closely by the side of the fire imtil next morning, then add a gill of melted butter, and make into a soft dough with yellow com-meal. Eub a griddle over with butter, and bake about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. Indian Curry — Cut two pounds of imdressed meat, sweetbreads, fowls, or rabbits, with a rasher of bacon, into neat pieces or joints. Stew in a quarter of a pound of butter a clove of gailic, and an onion or two chopped, take these up when brown, fry the meat in the same fat, drain it and lay it in a saucepan. Mix three dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder, a table-spoonful of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt, in sufficient water to make it into a smooth prtste, then add a little more water, if required; shake the mixture well in the stewpan till it boils. Pour the gravy over the meat, simmer gently tiU this is tender. Before serving add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Serve the rice in a separate dish, the gravy in the dish with the meat. Time, an hour or more to stew. Indian Curry.—Beat up two eggs with a quarter of a pint of milk, and beat well into the milk a slice of bread previously soaked in milk. Pound a few sweet almonds, and fry a sliced onion in an ounce of butter. Mix all well together with a table-spoonful of curry, another ounce of butter, and six or eight ounces of minced fowl or other cold cooked meat, seasoned with salt. Melt a little butter with 30me lemon-juice, rub a baking-dish with it, and fill with the curry. Serve boiled rice sepa- rately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the meat. Indian Curry-powder.—It is necessary to have all the seeds used in the preparation of cuny-powder well dried. A cool oven will dry them best. Put them in at night, they will be ready for pounding in the morning. Pound together an ounce each of coriander and poppy-seed, half an ounce of ground ginger, and the same of mustard-seed, with a quarter of an ounce of red chilies, and half a di-achm of cinnamon. Cork the bottle containing this mixture tightly. Indian Curry, Simple.—Cut up a chicken into nice joints. Pound in a mortar a small'.! onion, a clove of garhc, together with an ounce of good curry-powder, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Fry a sliced onion in butter till quite brown, take out the pieces, and with the hot butter mix the above ingredients, adding a giU of stock and another of cream. Put in the chicken, and simmer till done. Time to stew the chicken, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two persons. Indian Devil Mixture.—To a table- spoonful each of vinegar, ketchup, and chutney- paste add an ounce of dissolved butter, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, salt, and a small cup of good rich gravy. Blend these ingredients thoroughly, and rub them into the meat. Make all hot together slowly. Time, ten minutes to make hot. Indian Dish of Fowl {see Fowl, In- dian Dish of). Indian Fagadu.—Pick the meat from a lobster and a pint of shrimps, cut it into small bits, and season it with an onion and a clove of garlic, shred finely, and some cayenne and salt. Prepare some spinach as for boiling—put it into a stewpan in the usual way, without water—. add the lobster, and stew gently with an onion or two sliced, and previously fried in butter, keeping the lid closed for some time. When nearly done, stir the contents over the fire to absorb the moisture, and when quite dry, squeeze in some lemon-juice. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. • Indian Fritters. — Put three table- spoonfuls of flour into a basin, and mix it to a stiff paste with boiling water. Stir brisklj', and beat the batter well or it will not be smooth. Break into the basin two eggs with their whites, and two more yolks without the whites; the batter must be cool before they are put to it, and when beaten well together with a wooden spoon should have the frothed whites of two eggs added just before frying. Drop the batter from a spoon into boiling lard. The fritters will rise very high, and only require a little batter; a dessert-spoonful is quite sufficient to make them a nice size. Preserve or mar- malade is sensed between the fritters. Time, six to eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of preserve. Sufficient for four or five persons. Indian Gingerbread.—Put a small tea- cupful of water mto a saucepan, and stir well in it, over a slow fire, three-quarters of a pound of pounded sugar and four ounces of butter until they are dissolved; then work the mixture