HAB ( 300 ) iiAii the process. Put the hare into a hot dish, aqnoozo tlio jiiico of a loinou over it, and send till) sfiuco iu which it was stowed to tuhlo in a tiu'eon, after having strained and thickened it, and added a hirgo table-spoonful of red currant jelly and a wine-glassful of claret. Time, three- quarters of an liour to roast, thi'oe-quiirters of an hour to steam. Sufficient for four or five pei-sons. Probable cost of hare, 3s. Gd. to 68. Hare, Batter for Basting.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. Mix smoothly with them two table-spoonfuls of Hour, and add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of oil, and a pint of milk. When the hare is about thrce-piu'ts roasted, baste it with the batter, until the latter stiffens, and forms a covering over t]\e hare. Care must be taken not to let this burn. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, Sd. Sufficient for one hare. Hare, Beef Rolled as {see Beef Rolled as Hare). Hare, Beef Stewed as {see Beef Stewed as Hare). Hare Braised.—Stuff the hare with a suitable forcemeat {see Hare, Forcemeat for). Sew it up securely, and lay slices of bacon on it, put it into a braising-pan, with two finely- minced shallots, a scraped carrot, four button- mushi-ooms, or, in place of these, a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, and a pint of good stock. Place three ounces of butter on the hare, put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently for three hours or more. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, add a glass of sherry, Madeira, or claret, simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Send red currant jelly to table with the hare. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Broiled.—Season the legs and shoulders of a cold roast hare, salt and cayenne, broil them over a clear fire, rub some cold butter over them, and serve as quickly as possible on a hot dish. Time, five minutes to broil. Suf- ficient for three persons. Hare Cakes.—Take the remains of cold roast hare, and mince it finely with a quarter of its weight of finely-shred suet. Pound the mince in a mortar, and season rather highly with salt and cayenne. Bind it together with beaten egg and a little milk. The yolk of one egg and a table-spoonful of milk will be suf- ficient for a pound of hare. Make the mince up into small cakes, dip these in flour, and fry them In hot dripping or lard. Serve them on a hot dish, pour round thein some gravy made with the bones and trimmings of the hare, and garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cakes. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three persons. Hare, Choosing a.- If the cleft in the [ip of a hare is widely spread, the claws blunt, and the ears tough and hard, the animal is old, and should be jugged, stewed, or made into soup, but never roasted. When the body is stiff, the hare is fresh; if limp, it is stale. A oare should be tunp: bv the hind''syp. and is aiwavB better if it is not paunched for four car five days after being killed. If it is abeady paunched, the liver sliould bo taken out and scalded, the lioart removed, and the inside of the Imro wiped dry every day. If a small piece of charcoal be put in the inside, it will help to keep the liaro. A liare should be hung for ten days or a fortnight, in cold weather, before bemg cooked. Hare, Civet of.—This dish may be made either with the rerruiins of cold roast hare or with an uncooked hare. In the former case, the meat would require to be wanned for a few minutes only in the gravy; in the latter, it would have to be stewed with it. Divide the hare into small neat pieces, and fry them for a few minutes with half a pound of fat bacon, cut into dice, and two ounces of butter. When lightly browned, lift out the meat and bacon, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly into the fat. Add gradually a pint and a half of stock, and put it into a stewpan with the bones of the hare, half a dozen small onions, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, a smaU lump of sugar, and a few i mushrooms, or, in place of these, a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder or a table-spoonful of ketchup. Simmer gently for an hour, then I strain the gravy, put in the pieces of meat, with the bruised liver, a cupful of blood, and half a tumblerful of port. Simmer again as long as the meat requires it, and serve as hot as possible. The juice of half a lemon is by some considered an improvement. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Civet of {see also Civet of Hare). Hare CoUops.—Take the remains of cold hare, pick the meat from the bones, mince it finely, and season rather highly vnth. cayeime and salt. For every pound of minced meat put one ounce of butter into the frying-pan, dredge a httle flour over it, add the meat, and keep stirring over the fire till it is a dark brown. Put half a pint of strained gravy, made from the bones and trimmings, into a saucepan, add the coUops, and a glass of port. Simmer gently for half an hour. Serve on a hot dish, vrith toasted sippets for garnish. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat and wine. Sufficient for two or three persons, when made with one pound of minced meat. Hare Cutlets (<i German recipe).—The back of the hare, which is the best part of it, may be divided into cutlets, and fried. The rest may be used for soup, or served some other way. Leave the bones in the cutlets, trim them neatly, and rub into them some salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Mix a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced sweet herbs, and half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, with a quarter of a piiil^ of bread- crumbs. Dip the cutlets in egg, and afterwnrda in the seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot butter. Put them in a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and garnish the dish with slices of hard-boiled egg and pickled gherkins. Time, from twelve to fifteen minutes to fry the cutlets. Pro])able cost of hnro. from 38 6d. to 68 Suffi.c; Mit for thi-ee or four ;)erson8.