ALM the paste about a quarter of an inch thiclc, quickly and evenly on a well-oiled slab, cut it into lingers, strew some small white comfits over those, and arrange them in a pile. Or, the nougat may be spread on a well-oiled pie- dish, and when it has taken the fonn, tui'nod upon a dish. The nougat should be made and moulded as quickly as possible, or it will hai-deu. Probable cost, 9d., for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dish. Almond Omelet.—Beat four eggs with a httle milk for a minute or more. Have ready as many sweet ahnonds as may be Avished, blanched and pounded. Put into an omelet- pan a piece of butter the size of a large egg; let it be quite hot, but not browned; pour in the mixture, stirring it gently imtU it begins to set. Then arrange it nicely, lay the pounded ahnonds on the top, and double the omelet over, to cover the almonds completely. Keep-shaking the pan, and add a little butter if it seems likely to stick. When it is a nice golden-brown, place it on a hot dish, and cover with a little sifted sugar. Time, five minutes to fry. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two persons. Almond Paste (To Make Quickly). —Poimd as many almonds as are required, moistening with white of egg to prevent oiling, and then roll them with a rolling-pin until they are smooth. They will be nicer if they have been kept in a waim place. This quickly-made aJmond paste is very useful for garnishing pastry. Almond Pastry.—Blanch and pound to a paste three oimces of almonds and a little rose-water. Add to them gradually four oimces of loaf sugar and an equal weight of fine flour. Stii- in the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and roU out on a pastry-board. Stamp out any pretty shapes that may be fancied; bake in a moderate oven, and keep in a dry place in a tin box to ornament sweet dishes of any descrip- tion. Time to bake, eight or nine minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Almond Pudding, Boiled.—Blanch and pound with a httle water three ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds; add a pint of new milk, sugar to taste, a httle nutmeg, a table-spoonful of floiur mixed smoothly, a table-spoonful of grated bread-cnunbs, two €ggs well beaten, and lastly, the whites of two eggs whisked to a froth. Pour the mixtui-e into a well-buttered mould, and steam gently till the pudding is set. When done, let it stand for a few minutes before turning out. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Pudding, Jewish.—Put four ounces of sweet almonds, and three bitter ones, into a saucepan of cold water. Heat it gradu- ally, and when too hot to bear the fingers put the almonds into a basin, sKp ofE the skins, and throw them at once into cold water. Dry them well, and pound them in a mortar imtil they form a smooth paste; drop a tea-spoonful of -cold water over them two or three times to prevent them oiling. Mix with them.four ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and add two table-spoonfuls of rose water, together with the yolks of four, and the whites of three, eggs well beaten. Stir briskly for t2n minutes, pour into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a (luick oven. Turn the pudding out of the dish before serving, and pour round it a thick syrup, flavoured with the rind and juice of a Icnion, and coloui-ed with cochineal. Time, half an hour to Ixvke. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for thi'eo or four persons. Almond Pudding, Plain.—Soak three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs m milk. Add four ounces of blanched_ and pounded ahnonds, a piece of butter the size of an egg melted in a pint of new nulk, sugar to taste, a tea-spoonful of grated, lemon-rind, a scrape of nutmeg, and three eggs well beaten. A glass of sherry or raisin wine may be added. Place in a pie-dish lined with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Enough for three or four persons. Almond Pudding, Kich.—Blanch and beat to a paste a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and five or six bitter ones, with a little water to prevent oiling; add a httle sugar rubbed on lemon-rind, a piece of butter the size of an egg, melted with a glass of warm cream, five eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and a glass of sherry. Put the mixture into a pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into buttered cups, and turn out. Serve mth sweet sauce. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Pudding (another way).— Line a pie-dish with p\iif paste. Blanch and poimd half a pound of sweet almonds with a little orange-water. Add a quarter of a pound of melted butter, three table-spoonfuls of cream, the riud and juice of a lemon, four eggs well beaten, and a little brandy. Mix all together, put it in the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with brandy sauce. Time to bake, half an hoiir. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Almond Puffs.—Blanch and pound two oimces of sweet almonds with a Httle water. Add two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, two ounces of clarified butter, two table-spoon- fuls of flour. When these are thoroughly mixed, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a cupful of cream. Well oU about a dozen PATTT-PANS. patty-pans, and half fill them with the mix- ture. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Serve one for each person. Almond Sauce for Puddings.—Boil gently a quarter of a pint of water and half that quantity of new nulk. Pour this slowly, when boiling—stirring all the time—^upon a