OBA ORA ( 474 ) is very good when made of ordinary pastry. Time, about half an liour to bako tho cako. l^obablo cost, Is. Od. Sulliciunt for tivo or six persons. Orange Cakes. — Pool Bomo Seville oranges. Weigh the rinds, and boil them in two or throe waters until they can bo easily pierced with a fork. Drain tho water from tliom, and pound them in a mortar with doublo their weight in powdered sugar, and tho pulp and j nice of tho oranges, which must have boon carefully freed from skin and seeds. Boat the mi.xturo thoroughly; if it is too thick, let it istand a few hours, drop it upon buttered tins in small rounds, and dry these in u cool oven. Orange cakes should be kept in layers between sheets of writing-paper, and stored in a cool dry place. Time, two hours to boil the orange rinds. Probable cost, Seville oranges, Id. or lid. each. Orange Calf's Feet Jelly.—Take one pint of calf's feet stock, carefully freed from fat and sediment, mix with it half a pint of strained orange-juice, the juice of two lemons, the whites and crushed shells of three eggs, the thin rinds of two oranges and one lemon, a dessert-spoonful of isinglass, and four ounces of sugar in lumps ; stir these gently over the fire until they are well mixed, but as soon as the liquid begins to heat, leave off stirring, and let the scum rise undisturbed; let the jelly simmer fifteen minutes after it has reached the boiling point, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it stand to settle fifteen minutes longer; lift the bead of scum off carefuUy, and pour the jelly through a tamis until it is quite clear. Take a damp mould, pour in a little of the jelly to the depth of half an inch, and let it stand in a cool place imtil it is stiff; arrange the quarters of an orange on this in the form of a star, first freeing them entirely from the thick •white skin; pour the rest of the jelly on them, and set the mould in a cool place. Turn it out carefuUy before serving. Probable cost 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Cardinal.—Peel a large sound St. Michael's orange very thinly, remove the thick white skin, and cut the fruit into thin slices; remove the pips, place the slices in a bowl, and strew over them a quarter of a pound of pounded and sifted sugar. Put the rind of the orange into a pint of good light wine, and let it infuse for six or eight hours. Strain it over the sweetened fruit, and, just before serving, add one bottle of champagne. A Seville orange may be used if the flavour is preferred, but it will require more sugar and a larger proportion of wine than a sweet one. Probable cost, according to the quality of the wine. Orange Cheesecakes.—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water. Add four ounces of finely- sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, the rind, pulp, and juice of a small Se\'illo orange ■which has been "boiled in two or three waters until tender, then freed from the pips and skin, one candied orange povmded to a paste, tho yolks of five and the wliites of two eggs. Beat tho mixture thorougldy, put it into patty- pans hned with good putt-paste, and bake in a (luick oven. Time to bake tho cheesecakes, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for tills quantity. Sufficient for two dozen clieose- cakcs. Orange Cheesecakes (another way).— Jiub th(3 rind of a Seville orange with two or three lumps of sugar until all the yellow part is talfon oft'. Crush tho sugar to powder, and put it into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuljj of new milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter.' Stir all over the fire until the butter is dissolved, then pour the liquid over four ounces of sponge biscuits. Beat them well with a fork, and add thi-ee ounces of sugar, half a salt-spoon- ful of nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of brandy, and three eggs well-beaten. Mix thoroughly. Lino some i)atty-pan8 \vith good puff-paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for half a dozen cheesecakes. Orange Cheesecakes {see Cheesecakes). Orange Chips.—Take the rinds of some large oranges. Cut into quarters, and weigh them. Boil them in water imtil they are so tender that they can be easily pierced with a fork, drain them well, and spread them in the sun or before the fire to drj'. Take one pound and a half of sugar to two pounds of orange rind. Clarify the sugar, pour it upon the rind, and leave it for twenty-four hours. Strain oil the sjTup, boil it until it is thick, and pour it boiling over the orange rind. Leave it for two days, then boil it again, and repeat this until the sugar is aU used. Put the chips on a sieve in the sun, and leave them until they are dry. Time, a week or more. Probable cost, oranges. Id. each. Orange Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water. Add the strained juice of six sweet oranges and one lemon, and four ounces of loaf sugar, which have been well rubbed upon the rinds of the fruit. Stir all gently over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, turn it out, and when nearly cold add half a pint of thick cream. Pour the mixture into a damp mould, and place it in a cool airj' situa- tion until it is stiff and firm. Serve the cream in a glass dish. Time, ten minutes to boil the juice and sugar with the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Cream (another way). (See Cream, Orange. Orange Cream Sauce (for Puddings and Sweet Dishes).—Soak tho thin rind of half a small Seville orange in four table-spoonfuls of water for half an hour. Strain the hquid, add two ounces of loaf sugar and the juice of a St. Michael's orange, and boU quickly-for two minutes. ^Vhcn nearly cold, mix it with half a pint of thick cream and a table-spoonful of rum, and serve. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Orange Custard.-Strain the juice of fo\n- oranges over four ounces of loaf sugar, put them into an enamelled saucepan, and stir them