BUL ( 86 ) BUB, Bidlock's Tongue, Larded la Ber- lin).—When the tongue has boiled for three hours, remove it, but do not throw away the liquor. Peel off the skin, lard the tongue with bacon, and put it into a stcwpan with a little of the liquor, a few silver button onions, which have been first fried, a glass of wme, a little sugar, and flour to thicken; stew the tongue in this for an hour, then add the juice of half a lemon, and serve. Probable cost, Ss. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Miroton of.—Fry some slices of onion, shallot, chives, and parsley, in butter; they should be cut small, and fried a pale brown. Add a httle flour, mixed with a Uttle good gravy, or jelly, and stir till thickish; then lay in slices of ox tongue, seasoned with spice and salt, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Pound some capers and an anchovy, with a httle vinegar; make all hot, and pour over the tongue. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. One pound sufficient for a dish. Bullocks' Tongues, Pickled and Baked. — Prepare the following ingre- dients:—Two ounces of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, a few cloves, a blade of mace, and some allspice, all pounded together ; add them to six ounces of salt, and three ounces of course brown sugar; mix well, and rub it into the tongue, and turn it every day for fifteen days, then put it into the oven with some butter over it, in pieces, and a common crust over all. Bake until very tender ; try it with a wooden skewer—if it offers no resistance it is ready. Peel, and straighten it out on a board, and when cold, glaze and send to table with a ruffle round the root. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, with Piquante Sauce.—Many people forget, or ao not, perhaps, know, that an ox tongue may be served in many diflterent ways besides cold boiled. The following makes a handsome dish, and where people are accustomed to continental cookery will be sure to be ap- preciated :—Wash a fine tongue in cold and then throw it into boiling water. Let it boil for half an hour; take it out, drain, and put it into a clean pan covered with cold water. Simmer it for two hours, then add two or three carrots, turnips, a bunch of celery, and sweet herbs; simmer another hour, remove the tongue and skin it. Next, get a stewpan, and put into it some small onions, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, pepper- corns, a sprig of thyme, a slice of ham, and a scraped carrot, with about a quart of the liquor the tongue was boiled in. Place the tongue in last of all, cover down tightly, and stew two hours. "When done, pat the tongue on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with flour, mustard, and scraped horse-radish (a very small quantity); give it one boil, pour over the tongue, and serve. When too large for a small party, cut the tongue in half before stewing it. The one half may be served as directed, and the other half may be pressed into a mould, covered with a glaze, and served cold for breakfast, lunch, &c. Probable cost of a tongue, 6h. to 6s. One-half sufficient for five or six persons. Buns.—Directions for compounding the following buns will bo found under their re- spective headings:— American Breakfast Bath Chester Christmas (Scotch) Devonshire Endcliffb Geneva Good Friday Guernsey Hanover Hot Cross Madeira Plain Plum Scotch Spanish Windsor. Buns, Light Tea.—Take one pound oi flour, half a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid, and the same quantity of carbonate of soda, and work all well together through a sieve; then rub two ounces of butter into the flour, being verj' careful to leave no lumps. When this ia thoroughly mixed, add a quarter of a pound of well-dried currants, two outices of sifted sugar, and a very few caraway-seeds. Next, mix half a pint of milk with one egg, make a hole in. the middle of the flour, and pour in the milk, working it all lightly together. Do not touch the dough with the hand, or the buns will be heavy, but place it in lumps on the baking-tin with a fork. Probable cost for a dozen cakes. Is. Bun Pudding.—Take as many stale buns as a dish wiU contain without crowding; mix a custard, allowing five eggs to a quart of milk ; season it with sugar and any kind of spices. Pour the custard over the buns, and let it stand and soak one or two hours. When it is all absorbed, bake it an hour and a half. This makes a very economical and pleasant pudding for a fanuly where there are many children. Burdwan, Indian.—This dish is much appreciated in India, and almost any kind of cold meat may be used for it. Venison, however, has the preference, but poultry may be so cooked as to ensure success. Take a table- spoonful of minced Spanish onion and half the quantity of shallot. To this put a pint of cold water, a mild seasoning of cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and an ounce of butter, mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour. Let this sauce simmer, after it has come to a boil, about a quarter of an hour, or until the onion is tender; then add to it a table- spoonful of Chili vinegar and a glass or two of Madeira. Draw the stewpan near the fire, and place the meat into it—if a fowl, divide it into joints and strip off the skin—when hot through, draw still nearer to the fire, but it should not be allowed to boil. If the fowl has been roasted, it may be sent to table when just on the point of boiling; but if only partly cooked before, allow it to simmer from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Many additional sauces may be used, and the juice of a lime or Seville orange pressed into it before serving; but care should be taken that no strong flavour of any particular sauce predominates. Sufficient for three or four persons. Burdwan Stew.—Any cold roast or boiled lamb, poultry, or game will do well for this. Make a sauce as follows:—To half a pint o5