LOB ( 390 ) LOB When oil is not liked, a drossinf? miiy ho made as follows:—Take the yolks of throe eggs, which have been boiled hard and allowed to become cold. Rub thorn in a bowl with the back of a ■ilver spoon until quite smooth. Add one tea- Kpoouful of mixed mustard, half a salt-spoonful of popper, one table-spoonful of cream, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boat together until thoroughly mixed. A few drops of oil may bo added or not. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6d. iSufhcient for two or three persons. Lobster Sauce.—Take the coral from the back and neck of a freshly-boiled hen lobster. Put it in a mortar and pound it thoroughly with double the quantity of fresh butter, and a little cayenne, and press it through a hair-sieve with the back of a spoon. This is lobster butter. It ought to be of a bright red colour. As it will keep for some time, any that is left should be put into a jar and kept in a cool, dry place until it is again wanted, as lobsters with coral cannot always be obtained. Pick out the white meat, and tear it into flakes with two forks. A small quantity only will be required for the sauce, the rest may therefore be served up some other way (see Lobster Salad, Lobster Rissoles, Lobster Cutlets, &c.). Break the shell of the lobster into small pieces. Pour three-quarters of a pint of water over these, and simimer gently until the liquid is reduced to half a pint. Mix two ounces of fresh butter with an ounce of flour. Strain the half-pint of gravy upon it, and stir all over the fire until the mixture thickens, but it must not boil. If despatch is necessary water may be used instead of gravy. Stir into the sauce as much lobster butter as will colour it brightly, add about a table-spoonful of the white meat, and, if liked, the juice of half a small lemon. Let it remain on the fire until the meat is quite hot. It must be remem- bered, however, that if it be allowed to boil the colour will be spoilt. A table-spoonful of cream is sometimes added. Time, two or three minutes to heat the sauce. Probable cost, small lobster, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Sauce, Mock.—When lobster butter is in the house, lobster sauce may be easily made, and a little boiled turbot or sole, torn into flakes, may be used as a substitute for the lobster meat. If there is neither lobster butter nor cold fish, boil a thick fleshy sole. Take the meat from the bones while it is still warm, and when nearly cold smear it over with anchovy paste, or the essence of shrimps. Cut it into small pieces, stir it into the required quantity of melted butter, and when it is heated ' through, serve immediately. Time, three or four minutes to heat the sauce. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per half-pint. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Sauce Piquant for.—Mix a sJilt-spoonful of raw mustard and a small pinch of salt and pepper smoothly with a dessert- spoonful of cold water; add gradually a quarter of a pint of best vinegar. Stir gently oyer the fire until the vinegar is hot, then put in two ounces of fresh butter, and serve. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Sausages.—Pick the flesh from a modiuin-sized freshly-boiled hen lobster. Mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and lialf of the coral, which has been pounded separatelv, and pressed through a hair sieve with the back of a spoon. Shape the mixture into rolls like sausages, sprinkle the rest of the coral over them, and place them in a Dutch oven before a moderate tire until they are quite hot. Serve them on a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time, a quarter of an hour to heat. Probable cost of lobster, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for lialf a dozen persons. Lobster. Scalloped.-Take a freshly- boiled hen lobster. Divide the shell into halves Avithout injuring it, take out all the meat, cut it into dice, and put it aside for a short time. Pound the spawn and coral in a mortar, with an ounce of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a blades of mace, pounded; add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and a tea- spooniul of strained lemon-juice. Stir all gently over the fire for ten minutes, then put in the meat of the lobster and the yolks of two raw eggs. When quite hot turn the mixture into the two halves of the lobster shells, strew bread-crimibs over, brown them with a sala- mander, and serve on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Soup.—Pick the meat from a large freshly-boiled hen lobster, cut it into squares, and set it in a cool place until wanted. Take away the brown fin and the bag in the head, and beat the small claws, the fins, and the chin in a mortar. Put them into a stew- pan, and with them a small onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stick of celery, the toasted crust of a French roll, a small strip of lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a quart of good unseasoned stock. Simmer aU gently together for three-quarters of an hour, then press the soup through a tamis, and return it again to the saucepan. Pound the coral to a smooth paste, press it through a sieve, and mix a little salt, pepper, and cayenne -with it. Stir these into the soup, add the pieces, and when quite hot, without boiling, serve. If liked, a few quenelles (see Lobster Quenelles) can be fried in butter, and put into the tureen before the soup is poured in. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Soup (another way).—Pick the meat from the claws, body, and tail of a medium-sized freshly-boiled lobster, cut it into small squares, and "put it aside until wanted. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stew- pan, put in with it a carrot, an onion, four sticks of celery, and three shallots, all sliced, together with a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of th^Tne, and a piece of lemon-rind. Turn these about in the butter for four or five minutes, then mix well with them six ounces of rice flour, add graduallv three pints of good stock, and the bruised shell of the lobster. Simmer gently for three-quarters of nn hour, '^^'^pn the soup is on the point of boiling, stir in with