( 303 ) HAB onion. Add a dessert-spoonful of cliili vinegai-, II l.iuiti-spooaiiil ox cunuuc jelly, and tlu'ee o^ yon wine. Utiv the sauue over the lire till hot, and serve. Kulticient for four- or live persons. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Hare, Mutton Gravy for. —Cut a pound of the scrag of mutton in pieces; brown thorn in a little butter, and pom- over them a pint ivnd a half of boiling water. Let the ^ravy l.oil up, add two cloves, half an inch of cinna- mon, a pinch of mixed herbs, with pepper and salt. Simmer gently an hour or more. Strain the gravy, free it from fat, thicken it, add a giU of port, and serve in a tureen. Hare, Ovened.—Instead of hashing hare, it may be wanned up as follows:—Take the remains of cold hare and pick the meat from the bones. Divide it into small neat pieces. Cut half a pound of fat bacon into dice. Fry these in butter till slightly browned, and put them at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, fc^trew a handful of finely-grated bread-crumLs over them, and on this place the pieces of hare, sea- soned with pepper and salt. Cut some button- mushrooms into halves, stew them partially, and lay them on the hare, and over them another layer of bread-crumbs. Distribute little pieces of butter over the surface, and enough broth to prevent the whole getting dry and hard. This ehould be added in small quantities, as required. Putthe dish into a tin filled with water, and heat in the oven. If mushrooms are not to be had, supply their place with mashed potatoes, and add a little ketchup to the broth which is used to moisten the hare. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold hare. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare Pasty (a German recipe).—Skin the hare, and cut it into joints or half-joints; lard these with thin strips of bacon, and lay them in a deep dish, with an omon, finely minced, twenty juniper berries, a bay-leaf, a dozen peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let them remain in this marinade twelve hours, turning and basting them frequently. Drain the pieces of hare, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter. Cover the pan closely, and let them steam until tender. Take them out, and put into the stewpan half the marinade and half a pint of good, nicely-seasoned gravy. Boil the liver, mince it finely, and make a force- meat by mixing with it a quarter of a pound of bacon, half a pound of pork, four ounces of finely-grated brcad-cmmhs, a quarter of a nut- meg, grated, some salt and pepper, a tea-spoon- ful of minced parsley, half as much powdered thyme, and two well-beaten eggs. Stir this over a gentle fire until it is sufficiently cooked. Spread half the forcemeat on the bottom of a haking-dif»h, put the pieces of hare upon it, with the rest of the forcemeat between them. Pour in a quarter of a pint of the gravy, and lay two or three thin slices of bacon over the whole. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Boil the gravy down a little, and pour it through a hole in the lid. This pasty may be eaten either hot or cold. Probablf> cost of" hare, 38. 6d. to 68. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hare Pasty (anot]it.r way).—Cut the hare into convenient-sized pieces, and cook them par- tially in a little good gravy, lake a pound of sausage-meat and a pound of well-chopped veal, mix them together, and spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish. Put the pieces of hare upon it, and the rest of the forcemeat between them. Sprinkle over them thi'ee finely-minced shallots, two tea- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a little salt and pepper. The quantity of salt used must depend upon the saltness of the bacon. Lay two or three thin shoes of bacon over the whole, and pour in a quarter of a pint of blood and half a pint of the gravy in which the hare was stewed. Cover the dish with a good crust and bake in a moderate oven. This pasty may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, two hours to bake. Pro- bable cost of hare, Ss. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hare Pepper,—Cut the hare into small convenient-sized j oints. Fry these in hot butter untn nicely browned, and with them one onion, sliced, and three ounces of bacon, cut into dice. Take out the hare, &c., while you brown two table-spoonfuls of flour in the butter. Add gra- dually a pint and a half of water or stock, and, when it is smoothly mixed., put in the pieces of hare, six or eight peppercorns, the rind of half a lemon, four or five cloves, and the gravy fi'om the dish in which the hare lay. Simmer gently for an hour or more. Put the pieces of hare into a dish, strain the gravy over them, and garnish with sliced lemon. When the hind- most part of the hare has been already served, the inferior joints are excellent cooked thus. The head should be split in two and the liver cut into two or three pieces. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hare Pie.—Skin the hare, cut it into con- venient-sized joints, season these with pepper and two pounded cloves, and fry them in hot butter for ten or fifteen minutes, then put them aside to cool. Pound the liver in a mortar with four ounces of bacon, a shallot, finely minced, a tea-spoonful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Whilst pound- ing add the blood till the forcemeat is of the proper consistency, or, if blood is not liked, a glass of port or the yolk of an egg may be substituted. The head and inferior parts may be stewed for gravy, with the same seasoning which would he used for jugged hare. Line the edge of a pie-dish with good crust, arrange the hare and the forcemeat inside it in alternate layers, cover the whole with thin slices of bacon, and pour over it half a pint of the gravy, to which hps been added a tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and, if liked, a glass of port. Bake in a good oven and serve hot. Time, an horn- and a half to bake. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Hare Pie (another way).—Skin a hare, cut it into small pieces, season them with pep- per, salt, and two pounded cloves, and put them into a deep jar, which must be covered closely, placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and hoiled for an hour. Line the edges of a pie-