HAM ( 298 ) HAM thick. Stamp thuso into rounds as hivgo as tho top of an L'gfj cup, and niako a littlo incision with tho point of a sJiai p knif u all round insido each ring, half an incli from tho cdyo. b'vy theso pieces of bread in hot fat till liglitly browned, scrape out tho middle, put a dessert- spoonf ul of nunced ham in each, prepared as in tho last rocipo, and place a poached egg on tlie top of each. Time, three or four minutes to fry the bread. Probable cost, 3d. each. A quartern loaf, will make a do/en patties. Ham and Fowl, Potted.—Take the meat from a cold chicken, and put it into a mortar witli lialf a pound of cooked ham, fat and lean mixed. Pound tliese to a pulp, and season them with pepper and a very Httle pounded mace. Put tho bono and trimmings of the chicken into a saucepan, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, naif a blade of mace, and as much water as Nvill cover them. Boil the meat down to glaze. Mix this and two ounces of clarified butter with the pounded meat. Put it into small jars, and pour clarified butter over the top. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of tho cold chicken. Ham and Fowl, Potted (another way). —See Fowl with Ham, Potted. Ham and Liver, Forcemeat of {see Liver and Ham Forcemeat). Ham and Veal, To Press.—Take equal weights of veal and ham. Remove the bones, rind, &c.,and cut the meat into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Pour a quarter of a pint of water into a deep pie-dish, then fill it with alternate layers of veal and ham, and season each layer with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Put a cover on the meat, with a heavy weight upon it, and put it into a moderate oven until it is quite tender. Do not remove the weight imtil the meat is cold. Both the bottom and the top layer should be composed of veal. A saucer shoiild be put under the pie-dish, to catch any gravy that the weight may force out of it. Time, about three hours to bake six pounds of meat. Sufficient for six or eight per- sons. Probable cost, 6s. Ham. with Aspic Jelly.—The best garnish for a cold ham that is intended to be used at once is aspic jeUy {see Aspic JeUy), as it may be eaten with it. It should be cut into dice, and the dish ornamented with it in any appropriate way. A few carrots and pickles, stamped into shapes, may be added. When a ham is expected to bo kept for some days, however, this garnish should not be used, as it soon spoils. Ham, with Savoury Crust.—Instead of strewing plain browned bread-crumbs over the ham when the skin is taken off, a pleasing variety may bo made by seasoning them with a table-spoonful of sugar and five or six powdered cloves. Put tho ham in a baking-dish, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew tho seasoned crumbs thickly upon it. Place it in a hot oven or before the fire to brown for a few minutes. Ham, wi^h Stewed Veal Cutlets.— C'lt- a slice of h.im with ^ach cutlet, and trim them as nearly as possible to the same shape. Cook them in the stewpau, and serve them with the ham laid upon the cutlet. Dish them in a circle, and pour the sauce in the miuole Uee Veal Cutlets). Ham, with Windsor Beans.—Wind- sor, or broad beans, are a favourite accompaui ■ incut to 1mm. Tliey should be boiled until tender, then drained and steamed over the lire for a few unnutes, with pepper, salt, and a small pat of butter. 'J'hey may be placed round tho liam or on a separate dish ; and, if old, tho skins should be taken off. Parsley and butter should be sent to table in a tureen. Thiie, according to the age of tl a beans, from fifteen to tliiity minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Sufficient, a peck of beans for five or six persons. Hamburg Beef (prepared in the Ger- man way).—Take about sixty pounds of beef, which may bo composed of seven or eight pieces. Jilix four pounds of salt with four ounces of saltpetre, and rub the meat thoroughly with it. Take a deep tub, gee that it is scru- pulously clean, and wash it out with cold water. Put into it, a handful of the leaves of mar- joram, sweet basil, and thyme, the same of bay- leaves, a dozen cloves, two blades of mace,' a quarter of an ounce of juniper oerries, and two ounces of white pepper. Pack the pieces of beef on part of this seasoning, and sprinkle the rest over, with as much of the salt and salt- petre as could not be rubbed into the beef. Place a weight on the top, and if, at the end of a few days, the hquid does not rise over the hd, pour a pint of strong salt and water into the tub. The smaller pieces can be used at the end of three weeks, the larger should be left for a month. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Hamburg Beef Salad (named Hambro' Salad).—Make a salad with a pint of mixed vegetables, which have been washed, thoroughly dried, and finely shred. Slix with them half a dozen filleted anchovies, three or four sharp apples, finely minced, and a quarter of a pound of dried salmon, cut into small pieces. Season with pepper, salt, \dnegar, and oil, and just before serving, strew over the top, half a pound of Hamburg beef, chopped small. Garnish tho dish, according to taste, with parsley, shoes of hard-boiled egg, beetroot, &c. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hamburg Beef, Smoked.—Take nhout six or seven pounds weight of the rump, or ribs of beef, and rub a little common salt and coarse sugar into it. Let it remain for two or thi-ee days, and turn it frequently. Drain and wipe the meat. Pound and mix thoroughly a quarter of a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, and half a dozen pounded cloves. Rub these well into the beef, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Take it up, drain it, roll it tightly in a cloth, and smoke it for ton or twelve days. It may be cooked whole, or in pieces, but if boiled whole should be pressed under a weight until cold. Probable cost, Is. per jiound. Hamburg Beef, Smoked. To BoiL— Soak the meat in lukewarm water, and ifl it remain over-night, then dry it, and cut away