BAH (SOI ) fiAH Hare (en Daube).—Cut ofH the head of a haie, and truss if securely. Line a braising- pan with slices of bacon, place the hare on it, and with it a calf's foot, broken into small pieces, a largo onion, with four cloves stuck into it, a large bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two sliced caiTOts, and a quarter of a pint of good stock. Dredge a little pepper over the meat, cover it with slices of bacon, lay three or four folds of buttered paper over the bacon, and simmer slowly for four hours. Strain the gi-avy, boil it till it will jelly, poiir it over the meat, and serve cold. I'robable cost of hare, 38. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Florendine (sometimes called Koll of Hare).—Take a hare, cut off the head, bone it, dry it well with a soft cloth, and spread the stuffing over the inside. EoU it up, sew it secui-ely with strong thi-ead, and put it into a saucepan, -with as much water as will barely cover it, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a bunch of parsley, and an orion, stuck with four cloves. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, then drain off a pint and a half of the gravy, and put it into another saucepan, with a table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a dessert-spoonful of lemon pickle, and two wine-glassfuls of port. Thicken the gravy with flour, and add a little browning, if necessaiy. Stir it until it is smooth and thick. Put the hare on a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and let forcemeat balls and stewed mushrooms be served with it. Probable cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to Gs. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Forcemeat for.—If the liver of the hare is perfectly sound, boil it gently for six minutes, mince it finely, and mix it with six table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half a tea-spoonful of fresh lemon-rind, chopped very small, a dessert-spoonful of minced pars- ley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of thyme, and the same of sweet marjoram, a small tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a little cayenne, if this is liked, and two or three grates of nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then work into them two ounces of good butter and the yolks of two eggs. If the liver is not sound, it may be omitted, and then one egg only will, be necessary. Everj-thing used in making forcemeat should be quite fresh and sweet, or a very unpleasant flavour may be given to the dish. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for one hare. Hare, Forcemeat for (another way).— See Forcemeat for Hare. Hare, Gateau of.—Prepare a hare as if for roasting. Cut it into joints. The best parts— the back, thighs, and shoulders—may be used for the gateau, and the remainder for a civet or for soup. Take the meat from the skin and sinews, cut it up, and pound it in a mortar, with one pound of the neck or loin of veal, half a pound of fresh, lean pork, and a quarter of a pound of unsmoked fat bacon. A tftble-spoonful of soup or stock may be added while pounding, so as to make the meat into a smooth paste. Add pepper, milt, and cayenne to taste, together with two or three small onions, finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Beat half a dozen law eggs, and add them one at a tinie. Lino the bottom and sides of a baking-dish with slices of fat bacon, cut very thin. Spread the chopped meat over it, about an inch and a half in thickness, and place two or three more slices upon it. Repeat until aU the meat is used, letting bacon be uppermost. Place the skin of the bacon or a coarse crust of flour and water on the top of the dish, to keep in the juices, and bake in a moderate oven. If the oven were hot, the meat would be hard and diy. "When cool, dip the dish into hot water, turn, out the cake, place on a napkin, and garnish according to taste. This dish is good for break- fast or luncheon, and will keep for some days. It should be eaten cold. Time, about four houis to bake. Probable cost of hare, Ss. Cd. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Gateau of (made with cold dressed hare).—Take the flesh fiom the bones of a cold roast hare, remove the skin and sinews, cut it small, and pound it in a mortar with the liver of the hai-e. Take half the weight of the meat, in finely-grated bread-crumbs, soak them in as much good broth as they will absorb, and mix them with the pounded meat. Season with salt, pepper, and spices, according to taste, together with a finely-minced shallot, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Add two well-beaten eggs. Cover the inside of a mould with slices of bacon. Put in the pounded meat, lay some more slices on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an honr. Take away the bacon that sun-ounds it, and strew finely-grated bread-crumbs over it. This dish may be eaten either hot or cold. If eaten hot, a sauce should be sent to table with it made of the bones and trimmings of the hare, stewed in a little stock, seasoned, and flavoured. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold hare. Hare, Gravy for {see Gravy for Hare). Hare, Haricot of .—When the best parts of the hare have been used, the remainder may be cooked as follows:—Divide the hare into small, neat joints. Fry these for three or four minutes in a little butter, then put them into a larger stewpan, with a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a shallot, finely minced, two turnips and two carrots, cut into small pieces, three or four cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Mix a little flour very smoothly with the butter in which the hare was fried, let :t brown lightly, then add gradually a pint and a half of good stock. Let the sauce boil a minuta or two, then pour it over the hare, &c., and simmer gently for an hour. A dessert-spoonful of chili vinegar, or the same quantity of lemon- juice may be added, if liked. Put the meat into a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the hare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hare, Hashed.—Take the remains of cold roast hare, and cut it into neat pieces. Put a pint of gravy into a saucepan with the trim- mings of the hare, a table-spoonful of red- currant jelly, and salt ajad pepper, if necessary