KET C 346 ) in which it was stewed poured over it. Pro- bable cost of kale, lOd. or more per basket, buflicient, one basket for four or tivo persons. Kalteschale, Plum (a German dish for hot weather).—6Ve Plum Kalteschale. Kebob.—This is an Indian dish, and is usuully luado of mutton, veal, or fowl. Its peculiarity is that it is cut into pieces, seasoned rather highly, then fastened together with skewers, and thus both cooked and served. For mutton kebobs, take either the loin or the best end of the neck. Remove the skin and fat, and cut the meat into steaks. Mix half a pint of iino bread-crumbs with a small nutmeg, grated, a dessert-spoonful of powdered mLxed herbs, a table-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. Beat the yolks of three eggs. Dip the chops into these, and afterwards into the bread-crumbs, twice. _ Fasten them together in the position in which they were before they were cut, put a skewer through them, tie them to the spit, and roast before a clear fire. Baste them liberally with some good di-ipping and the con- tents of the pan. Have hali a pint of good brown gravy, thickened and flavoured, ready to pour over the mutcon before sending it to table. Time, an hour and a half to roast. Probable cost, if made with four pounds of the loin of mutton, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Kebobbed Curry.—Fasten small pieces of veal or fowl alternately with slices of onion and pickled pork upon skewers, as in the last recipe. Sprinkle a little turmeric over the meat, and fry it, with a thinly-sliced onion, in butter, until lightly browned. Llix a table- spoonful of curry-powder smoothly with a pint of gravy, and simmer it gently with two small onions, a clove of garlic, and an acid apple, until the vegetables are sufficiently tender to pass through a sieve. Put the gravy and the meat into a saucepan, season with salt and pepper, add a bay-leaf, and stew until the gravy is considerably reduced and very rich. Serve on a hot dish. Time, a few minutes to fry the meat; an hour and a half to stew the gravy. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kebobbed Curry (another way).—See Curry, Kebobbed. Kebobbed Meat, Cutcharee Sauce to Serve with [see Cutcharee Sauce). Kebobbed Mutton or Veal.—Take two pounds of lean veal or mutton the third of an inch thick. Cut these into pieces about two inches square, and season them well with pepper, salt, and mixed spices. Slice two or three small onions or shallots very thinly, dip the moat into clarified butter, and put three or four pieces on a small skewer, with a little slice of onion or shallot between each. Fasten the skewers on a .spit, and roast before a clear fire. Baste liberall)', and ser\'e the meat on a hot dish, with rice boiled as for curry round it. If preferred, little pieces of pickled pork can be put with the veal. When this is done, the clarifiiid buttpr raa^ be dispensed with. Time, | three-quarters of an hour to roast. Probabla cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for tliree or four persons. Kedgeree.—Kedgeree, or kidgeree, is an Indian dish, generally used for breakfast; it may be made of such fish as turbot, salmon, brill, soles, Jolm Dory, whiting, and shrimp.^', lioil three-quarters of a pound of rice in tho same way as for curry. Wh(;n soft and dry, put it into a saucepan, first with two ounces oi' butter, and afterwards with a quarter of a pound of the flesh of the fish, freed from skin and bone, and divided into small pieces. Season with cayenne, salt, and pepper — as much as may be required. Stir the kedgeree over the fire until quite hot, then add two well-beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, and serve at once. Time, until very hot, without boU- ing. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for hall a dozen persons. Kedgeree, Fish [see Fish Kedgeree). Kentish Cherries. Compote of Cherries, Kentish, Compute of). Kentish Suet Pudding. — Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, add a pinch of salt, and ten ounces of fine flour; mix thoroughly, and make up into a paste, by the addition of an egg beaten up with a little cold water. Put the whole into a floured cloth, tie it securely, plunge it into boihng water, and boil quickly for an hour and a half. This pudding is very good with a jar of jam emptied over it, or eaten with hot gravy and boHed meat. If any is left, it may be toasted before the fire until brightly browned, and sensed with the same accompaniments as before. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Kerry Buttermilk.—Hang three quarts of buttermilk, tied in a cheesecloth, in a cool airy situation. Put a basin under it for the whey to drip into, and let it remain for three days. Mi.: a glassful of brandy with the thickened whey, and half a pound, or more, if liked, of raspberry jam. Stir in a little pounded sugar, whisk thoroughly, and serve in a glass dish. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the brandJ^ Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ketchup.—Good home-made ketchup is a most valuable addition to the storerooin, and a good housekeeper will always look with pride upon it as it stands, in closely-corked bottles, neatly labelled, upon her shelves, feeling as she may that she possesses close at hand the means of imparting a delicious flavour to her sauces and gravies without at the same time placing any deleterious compounds before her friends. Though excellent preparations are no doubt sold by respectable dealers, the superiority of ketchup when made at home is undisputed, and the comfortable certainty attending its use is so great, that we would earnestly recommend every lady who has the time and opportunity to do so, to superintend personally the manu- facture of that which is used in her kitchen. It is not well, however, to make a vcrv large quantity, as it is rarely improved by being long kept. Ketchup should be stored ir a cool