CAL ( •95 > isinglass. Sufficient for two and a haM. pints of jelly. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Calfs Foot JeUy, Lemon—Mrs a quart of strong calf's foot stock, clear and free from fat and sediment, with a cupful of strained lemon-juice and thi-ee-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, which has been rubbed on the rind of two lemons. Put these into a saucepan with the well-beaten whites and crushed shells of five e"-gs. Proceed as for ciilf's foot jelly. Time to boil, by the side of the fire, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Suffi- cient, one pint and a half of jelly for five or six people. Calfs Foot Jelly, Maraschino.— Take one quart of clear calf's foot stock. Pro- ceed according to the directions given for making calf's foot jeUy, remembering only to omit the sherry, and to rub the rind of two lemons on the sugar before it is added to the stock. When it has rim through the jelly-bag and is quite clear, add two glasses of maraschino to it, and pour a little of the jelly into a mould; let it set, then fill the mould'with alternate layers of jelly, and either fresh strawberries or pre- served peaches. Put it in a cool place, and when it has set, turn it out of the mould. Time to set, two hours with ice, ten or twelve without. Probable cost, Is. per pint, without the maraschino. A pint and half mould win be sufficient for five or six persons. Calf's Foot Jelly of Four Fruits.— Dissolve one pint of calf's foot apple jelly {see Calf s Foot Apple JeUy), and pour about a quarter of it into an earthenware mould ; let it nearly set, then arrange, as tastefully as pos- sible, fine fresh bimches of white and red cur- rants, strawberries, cherries, raspberries, or any fruit that can be had. If fresh fruits are not in season, any fruits which have been preserved whole may be used instead, such as peaches, plums, or apricots. Add the jelly and the fruit gradually before more is put in. Set it in a cool place, and when stiff, it may be turned out. Probable cost, lOd. per pint mould. Time to set, twelve hours. Calf s Foot Jelly of Four Fruits (another way).—Put two pounds of fresh fruit (made up half of red currants and \hn other half of mixed cherries, strawberries and rasp- berries) into an earthenware jar, cover it closely, then place it in a saucepan, filled three parts with cold water; let it simmer very gently over a moderate fire for half an hour; then pour the contents into a jellj'-bag, and let the juice drop from it, but do not squeeze it. Proceed as for calf's foot apple jeUy, substituting the juice of the four fruits for apple juice, and omitting the brandy. Time to set, twelve hours. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient, a pint and a half of jelly lor five or six persons. Calfs Foot Jelly, Orange.—Put a quart of strong calf's feet stock into a sauce- pan with a pint of the strained juice of oranges, the juice of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of sugar, on which the rinds of the lemons have been rubbed, half an ounce of melted isinglass, and the whites and crushed sheila of five eggs. Proceed as for calf's foot jelly, Three or four grains of saffron will im- prove the appearance of the dish. If it is preferred, the mould may be filled with alter- nate layers of jelly and quartered oranges, as directed in a previous recipe. Time to set, two hours with ice, ten or twelve without it. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient, a pint and half mould for five or six persons. Calf S Foot Mould.—A relishing break- fast dish may be made of the meat of calf's feet after they have been boiled for jelly, broth, stock, &c., if not overdone. Take out all the bones, and cut the meat of one foot into small pieces, mixing with it the juice and rind of a lemon, a small onion finely minced, and flavour- ing it with salt, cayenne, andpo wdered cinnamon. Put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter tho size of an egg, stir it over the fire for about ten minutes, and pour it into a mould. Probable cost of a calf's foot, 4d. to 8d. Sufficient for a small breakfast dish. Calf s Foot, Roasted.—Boil two calf's feet for one hour and a half, then take them out of the saucepan, di-ain the water from them, tie them together, and fasten them on a spit. Baste freely with a little broth, which has not been cleared from fat, and when they have been before the fire about half an hour, di-edge them with flour, baste with butter, and allow them to remain untU they are nicely browned. "When sufficiently cooked, place them on a hot dish, and pour roimd them a little brown sauce flavoui'cd with port. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, calf's feet, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calf S Foot Soup.—Cut two calf's foot into about twelve pieces, and put them into n- saucepan, with half a head of celery, a bunch oi parsley, a small sprig of thyme, an onion with five or six cloves stuck into it, and two quarts of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer all gently together, skimming the liquid carefully, for two hours. Take out the feet, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and thicken it with two dessert-spoonfuls of finely-sifted rice flour. A few minutes before the soup is wanted, add pepper and stilt, and stir gradually into it a cupful of milk or cream, mixed with the yolks of two eggs and a glass of white wine. Stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, but on no account allow it to boil. Serve, with the pieces of calf's feet, in the tureen. Probable cost, 7d. per pint, if made with milk, and exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for three pints of soup. Calf S Foot, Stewed.—Wash and clean two calf's feet very carefully. Cut them into pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a pound and a half of beefsteak, cut in pieces and rolled in flour, a head of celery, and an onion stuck with cloves. Cover them with stock, or water if the stock is not at hand, and let them simmer gently for three hours. Take them off the fire, strain tho gravy, and skim off the fat; then boil the gravj up again with a cupful of new milk and a little salt and pepper. Put in the pieces of meat to heat, but do not allow them to boil. Servo with the meat