OYS ( 492 ) OYS four minutes, then tako them up, and serve thorn in the shollB, with molted butter in ii turoen. I'robablo cost, Is. Gd. to 3b. per dozen. Oysters, Broiled.—Take a dozen large oysterti, dry them in a soft cloth, and dip th(!in into beaten oyg, and afterwards into linely- t^rated bread-crumbs. Kub the bars of a double wire gridiron with a little butter, place the oystera upon it, and broil them over a clear, but not fierce fire. When one side is done, turn them upon the otlier. Put a small lump of fresh butter upon a hot dish, lay the oysters upon it, sprinkle a little pepper over them, and serve. Time to broil, one or two minutes. Probable cost, Is. Gd. to Ss. per dozen. Suthcicnt for one or two persons. Oysters Broiled in their Shells. — Take a dozen oysters, open them, and leave them in the deep shell. Place a little butter upon each, with a pinch of salt and cayenne, and half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put the shells on the gridiron, over a clear but not fierce fire, and broil them for three minutes. Serve them neatly arranged on a folded napkin. If preferred, the oysters may be bearded, and warmed for a minute or two in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, before they are put into the shells, or the shells may be washed, and laid closed upon the gridiron, the deep side to the fire. When the shells open wide, the oysters are done enough. Serve with bread and butter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters Browned in their own Gravy.—Take a dozen plump, juicy oysters of medium size. As they are opened, care- fiilly pour the gravy into a cup. Beard the oysters, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and dip each one separately into the yolk of an egg, which has been mixed smoothly with a tea-spoonful of flour. Brown them in a saucepan with a little clarified butter, lift them out, mix their gxavy with the butter, and thicken it with half a tea-spoonful of flom-. Simmer gently for two or three minutes, stir in the browned oysters, let them get hot, then serve them on toasted bread in a hot dish. Time, altogether, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Gd. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters Calf's Head with {see Calf's Head). Oysters, Cold. — Oysters are never so excellent as when they are eaten tmcooked, if only they are quite fresh, and newly opened. Brown bread and butter is usually served with them, and either lemon-juice or vinegar and pepper; but the true lover of oysters prefers them with notlung but their own gravy. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Croquettes of.—Take a dozen plump juicy oysters. Put them in a saucepan over a gentle fire for a minute or two to harden them, then beard them, and cut each one mto six or eight pieces. Mix an ounce of butter smoothly in a stewpan with half an ounce of flour, add the juice of the oysters, a pmch of cavftnne, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a grate or two of uutfueg, and a quarter of a pint of mitk. Stir these ingredients over the fire until the sauce is smooth and thick, then lift the pan oflt the tire for a minute, add a tea-spoonful of good beef or veal gravy, tlie well-beaUm yolks of two eggs, and a tea-sixjouful of lemon-juice. Stir tlio sauce again over the fire until the eggs are set, tlien add the oysters, let them get quite hot (if this .point is not attended to the cro- quettes will not be good), spread the mixture out upon a pkte, about an inch and a half tliick, and put it aside until quite cold. Strew some finely-grated bread-crumbs on a board. Divide the oyster mixture into equal-sized parts, and roll these to the shape of corks or balls; dip them in the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tea-spoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper; roll them on the bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are ciiap, and lightly browned all over. Dry them well before the fire on a cloth placed upon an in- verted sieve, and serve them piled on a napkin, and garnished with fried parsley. Time to fry the croquettes, five to seven minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Curried. — Open two dozen oysters without losing any of their liquor. Put them into a saucepan over the fire for a minute to harden them, then beard them and put them aside. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, mix smoothly with it a table- spoonful of curry-powder and a tea-spoonful of dried flour; add a minced onion, and stir gently until the onion is tender, then add the oyster-liquor and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Let the sauce boil, then put in the oysters ; let them simmer for half a minute, stirring them gently all the time, and serve on a hot dish, with a border of rice boiled as for curry. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Oysters, Curried, Indian.—Opeu and beard four dozen large plump oysters, and be careful to presei"ve the liquor. Mince an onion very finely, and fry it in an ounce of butter until it is quite tender. Stir into it a heaped table-spoonful of curry-powder, add a little more butter, if necessary, and pour in very gradually a quarter of a pint of nicely-seasoned stock or water. "When the liquid boils stir in the meat of half a cocoa-nut, rasped, and a sour apple, finely minced. Simmer gently imtU the apple is dissolved, then thicken the gra^y with a little flour, and season with pepper and salt. Put in the oysters with their liquor and the milk of the cocoa-nut. Let the curry stew for a few minutes, and stir it gently all the time, then add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and when the oysters are done enough, serve on a hot dish, with a border of boiled rice. A small vegetable marrow, finely minced, or a large ripe tomato, chopped small, may be added to the curry, if they are at hand, and will be found an improvement. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozQn. Sufficient for night or ten persons. Oysters, Curried, Indian (another ^y).—Seo Lidian Oysters Curried).