COD ( 148 ) COD them clean, and sinimor for half an hour; rub them \vith butter, and drodgo with flour, season with salt and white puppor, and put them on the gridiron over a clear tiro to broil. Make Imli' a pint of good molted butter, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of mustard, a des- sert-spoonful of soy, and a di-achm of cayenne pepper. Heat it, and pour it over the broiled sounds. Time, about forty minutes. Probable oost, Gd. per pound. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for each person. Cod Sound, Fricasseed. — Soak, scrape, and boil as many cod sounds as may be required. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them; season the sauce with salt, popper, and powdered mace, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and, just before serving it, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Serve with toasted sippets. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for each person. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Cod Sound Pie.—Take equal weights of "boiled cod sounds, hard-boiled eggs, and boiled cod. Place these ingredients in layers in a deep pie-dish, season them with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and pour some good oyster sauce over all. Cover vsdth a good crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. It maybe used either.hot or cold. Probable cost of sounds, 6d. per pound. Time, three- quarters of an hour for a moderate-sized pie. Cod, Stewed.—The tail of a cod is some- times boiled like the rest of the fish, but it rarely proves a satisfactory dish, and is much better stewed or fried. Cut three pounds of cod into slices about an inch and a half in thick- ness, and fry these lightly in butter or good dripping. Drain them from the fat, and put the slices into a stewpan with a pint of good stock, as much pounded mace as would lie on a fourpenny piece, and a pinch of cayenne; add three ounces of butter rubbed smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, a glass of sherry, and the juice of half a small lemon. Simmer for eight minutes, then add a dozen and a half of oysters chopped small, with their liquor. Simmer two minutes more. Place the slices of cod on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve immediately. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of cod, when in full season, 8d. per poxmd. Sufficient for six persons. Cod and Macaroni.—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break it into small pieces. Take its weight in macaroni, and boil it until tender; drain, and cut it into short lengths of an equal size. Make a little good melted butter, allowing a pint for a poimd of cod and a pound of macaroni; season it with salt, cayenne, and the juice of a lemon: let it boil, draw it from the fire, and add the well-beatcn yolk of an egg. Put the fish and macaroni with the sauce, and when they are quite hot, put the whole into a hot dish. The sauce must not boil after the egg is put in. Cover the mixtm-e with grated bread-crumbs, and brown the top with a sala- mander or in a brisk oven. Time, one hour. Cod and Parmesan Cheese. —Take the remaiua of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break tlio ilesli into convenient-sized pieces, not very smjill. Make a little good white sauce, warm the pieces of cod in it, di^ain them, and dip eacli piece in beaten egg, breiid- crumbs, and Parmesan cheese. Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot or fijie flour: keep it liot in the saucepan. Frv tho pieces of fish in some hot butter until lightly browned, pour the sauce over them, and servo the whole as hot as possible. Time to fry, eight or ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold fish.^ Sufficient, as much fish as will re- quire a pint of sauce, for four- or five persons. Cod, with Mashed Potatoes.—Take the remains of cold cod and its weight in mashed potatoes, remove the skin and bones, and to every pound of fish allow one tea-spoon- ful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and one or two grains of cayenne; pound all together to a smooth paste, wdth a little butter, oil, or cream. Place the mixture in a well- buttered dish, roughen the top with a fork, and bake it in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost for cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Codling Soup. — Take two or three codlings, remove the flesh from the bones, and put them with the heads into three quarts of good veal stock; add a bimch of savoury herbs and a large onion stuck -with three cloves. Simmer the soup gently for two hours, then strain it, return it to the ste\vpan, and thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Put the slices of fish into the soup, with a glass of sherry, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoon- ful of pepper, and two grains of cayenne. Simmer for twenty minutes, then serve at once. A dozen oysters, with their liquor, is an im- provement to the soup. Probable cost, lOd. per quart, exclusive of the wine and oysters. Sufficient for six persons. Codlings, Sauce for.—Cod and codlings should be sent to table with oyster sauce and good melted butter. The melted butter should be of the consistency of light batter, as it has to be flavoured either with essence of anchovy, lemon-juice, Chili vinegar, ormushroom ketchup. A good sauce for boiled cod is made as follows : Simmer very gently together, for half an hour, a cupful of water, a cupful of vinegar, two shallots, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Strain the liquid, and add two table-spoonfuls of good cream, and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs. The sauce must not be allowed to boil up after the eggs are added. Codlings, To Dress.—Codlings may be either baked, boiled, or fried. To bake them : Flour the fish, salt and pepper it, and lay it in a pan with a little cold water, an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put a piece of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. "^Tien sufficiently cooked, take out the fish carefullv, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour, and add a tea-spoonful of the essence of ancho\dcs and two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's sauce. Let it boU, pour it round the fish, and giimish with