CAU ( 112 ) CAU Cauliflower (iV la Fmn(,'aiH())._Cut away tho stalk and tho groon loavos, and divide a cauliliowor into quarters. Put tho branches into a little vinogfir and water, then jnit them into a stowimi with soniu boiling' water, with a tiiblo-apoouful of salt in it, and let them boil until thoy are done. Tliis may bo ascertained by taking a little piece between the finger and thumb, and if, though still firm, it give away easily, it is sufficiently cooked. Drain tlie cauliflower and an-ango it neatly in a dish. Pour over it a pint of good molted butter. Time to boil, about twelve minutes. Probable cost, 4d. for a medium-sized cauliflower. Sufii- cient, one for two persons. Cauliflower (a la Sauce Blanche) .—Cut the stalks oif close, trim tho loaves, and put the cauliflower into a little vinecrar and water to draw out tho insects. Put it head downwards in boiling salt and water, and boil it till it is done. As cauliflowers will continue to cook, though more slowly, if left in hot water, if they are a little too soon, they may be taken oif the fire before they are quite ready. Take a little piece of the stalk between the finger and thumb, and if it yields easily it is done. Drain the vegetable and arrange if in a hot dish, and pour over it a little French white sauce made by adding {of the Jire) the yolk of an egg to half a pint of good melted butter. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. Oauliflower, Boiled.— Cut the stalk close to the bottom, and pare away the tops of the leaves, leaving a circle of shortened leaf- stalks all round. Put the cauliflower head downwards into a little vinegar and water for a quarter of an hour, as this will be sure to draw out the insects. Put it into a pan of boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt in it. Some persons prefer milk and water. Ee- move the scirm carefully as it rises, or the cauli- flower -will be discoloured. BoU till tender. This may be ascertained by taking a Uttle piece of the stalk between the finger and thumb, and if it yields easily to pressure it is ready. Drain and serve. Put a lump of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan with a dessert-spoon- ful of flour. IMix smoothly. Add salt and half a pint of water. Stir the sauce till it boils, and strain over the vegetable. Time : a large cauli- flower, fifteen to twenty-five minutes ; a small one, twelve to fifteen minutes. As cauliflowers will continue cooking, though slowly, if left in the water in the stewpan, it is important that they should be taken off the fire before they are quite done, unless they can be served im- mediately. Sufficient, a small one for one person. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. Cauliflower, Moulded, with Sauce. —Boil four largo white cauliflowers in a little thin flour and water until tender, then cut off the stalks and press them head downwards into a hot basin. Turn them into a tureen, and pour round them a little tomato or piquante sauce. Before serving, place the stalks neatly round them. They should look like one immense cauli- flower. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. each. Cauliflower Pickled. - This picklt, Should he made about tho btiginning of August Choose firm, fresh, white heads, and let them be cut on a dry day. Pare away the leaves and the stem, and jtliice the flowers for five minutes in boiling water, but do not let them boU up. Drain tlioin, and cut them into convenient-sized pieces, and leave them on a sieve to dry. Half fill jars with the flowers, cover with cold •wine- gar in which spices have been boiled, allowing a quart of vinegar to two ounces of peppercorns, a drachm of cayenne, an ounce of ginger, and half an ounce of mace. Cover closely. Pro- bable cost, Is. per pint jar. Cauliflower Sauce.—Make a jnnt of good wliite sauce. Boil a cauliflower till tender, drain, and chop it small, then stir it into the boiling sauce, let it remain over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. Time, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, from 4d. to 6d. per head. Sufficient for a pint and a half of sauce. Cauliflower Soup (maigre). — Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then stir into it verj- smoothly, three- dessert-spoonfuls of curry powder, and a tea- spoonful of celery seed. Slice into it a large cauliflower, a large onion, and a table-spoonful of French beans. Fry the vegetables gently for a few minutes, then add, gradually, three pints of boiling water, or the water in which cauliflowers have been boiled. Simmer gently till the vegetables are reduced to a pulp, then strain the soup, and return it to the saucepan. Add a little salt and pepper. Put in a few I sprigs of boiled cauUflower before serving it. A glass of white wine will improve the soup. Serve with boiled rice, and lay a sHce of the crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of the tureen. Time, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. for this quantity. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cauliflower, with Stufl&ng.—Choose a saucepan the exact size of the dish intended to be used. Cleanse a large, firm, white cauliflower, and cut it into sprigs; throw these into boiling- salt and water for two minutes; then take them out, drain, and pack them tightly with the heads downwards, in the saucepan, the bottom of which must have been previously covered with thin slices of bacon. Fill up the vacant spaces with a stuffing made of three table-spoonfuls of finely-minced veal, the same of beef suet, four table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, a little pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced chives, and a dozen small mushrooms chopped small. Strew these ingredients over the cauli- flowers in alternate layers, and pour over them three well-beaten eggs. When these are well soaked, add sufficient nicely-flavoured stock to cover the whole. Simmer gently till the cauli- flowers are tender, and the sauce very much reduced ; then turn the contents of the saucepan upside down on a hot dish, and the cauliflowers will be foimd standing in a savoury mixture. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. for a large cauliflower. Sufficient for four or five persons.