BBI BBO sugar, stirring it constantly. Next add the frothed whites of the eggs, and beat aU together with the yolks; then the ahnonda, spices, and, very gradually, the flour, till all are thoroughly blended. Beat well, and add the currants, sprink- ling thcin in very gradually, so as to distribute them equally, and finish by making all smooth with the brandy and sherry. Keep up the beating till all is ready for the baking. A double paper well buttered, must be put as a lining to the baking-tin, and the mixture should not fill the hoop more than three parts, that it may have room to expand. Put a paper over the top, and bake the cake in a moderately heated oven. Cover it with almond icing, allow it to dry, and then add ornamented sugar-icing, three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Average cost, 15s. {See also Wedding Cake.) Bride Pie.—Parboil some veal sweet- breads and pieces of lamb in water, and cut them into slices. Mix with them some slices of blanched ox palate, streaky bacon, a pint of oysters, and some roast chestnuts, and season with salt, mace, and nutmeg. AVhen the pie-dish is full, lay slices of butter on the top of it, cover it with paste, and bake. When done, lift up the lid, and put into the pie four raw eggs beaten up with a little butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry. Brighton Rock.—Blanch and pound to a paste three ounces of sweet and one of bitter ahnonds, using a little rose-water to moisten. Add four ounces of clean currants, and mix one pound of dry flour with half a pound of sifted loaf sugar and the almond paste. Stir into this half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and mix all well together. The cakes may be baked in small pans or dropped in lumps on floured tins, and cooked for ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Brill, To Boil.—This fish closely re- sembles the turbot, and is boiled in the same manner. Choose a tliick fish, and see that it is quite fresh, which may be known by the yel- lowish hue of the flesh. Clean, cut off the tins and, in order to preserve its whiteness, rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt. Put it into a fish-kettle with water to cover, and salt in the proportion of three ounces to each gallon of water. Add a little vinegar, bring it to a boil, and continue to sim- mer gently until the fish is done. Lay it on a dish the white side up. Garnish in the usual way, and servo on a napkin. Time, twenty mi- nutes to boil a brill of four pounds' weight. Brill may also be fried whole or in fillets like a sole. Brioche, or Trench Paste. — To make this excellent French paste, take two pounds of fine dry flour, and separate eight ounces of it to make the leaven. Place this last into a pan, and mix it with half a pint of yeast and a little warm water. Throw a cloth over the pan, and put it near the fire for about twenty minutes to rise. ^leanwhile make a hollow space in the centre of the remaining flour, and put into it half an ounce of salt, half an ounce of finely-sifted sugar, and an eighth of a pint of cream, or some milk if there is no cream. Add a pound of good dry fresh butter cut into small pieces; put them into the flour, and pour over all six eggs well beaten. Work all this with the hand until the whole is quite smooth. If the flour will take one or two eggs more, add them; but the paste must not be so soft as to adhere to the board or roller. When the leaven is well risen, spread the paste out and the leaven over it, and knead well together. Then cut into small portions and mix again, that the leaven may be thoroughly and equally incorporated with the other ingredients. Next, dust some flour on a cloth and roll the brioche (for so it is now called) in it. Put it in a pan, and set it in a cool place in summer, and in a warm place in winter. Use it the early part of the following day; then knead it afresh, and if the French form is desired, make into balls of uniform siz HoUow them at the top by pressing the thumb into them; brush them over with eggs, and put a second much smaller ball into the hollow part of each. Glaze again with yolk of egg, and bake them for half an hour in a quick oven; or tho brioche may be formed into cakes and placed o-\ a tin, and supported with pasteboard to pre- vent the flattening of the cakes. Brioche may also be used as a paste to enclose rissoles, or to make rolls for jams or jellies, or even for vol au vent; but to many persons it is unpalatable on account of the large proportion of butter and eggs. [See also Paste Brioche.) Broad Beans {see Beans, Broad). Brocoli, Boiled.—Trim off all leaves that are not required or liked, and place the brocoli in a pan of salted water to kiU. any insects, &c., that may have taken shelter under the stalks. Wash them well, and put them into an uncovered saucepan of boiling water, with a large table-spoonful of salt to every half gallon of water. Keep them boiling tiU. done, which will be in about ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. Drain them directly they are done, or they will lose colour and become sodden. Brocoli, To Pickle.—Choose the finest, whitest, ana closest vegetables before they are quite ripe. Pare off all green leaves and the outsides of the stalks. Parboil them in well- salted water. When drained and dry, pull of the branches in convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a jar of pickle prepared as for onions. Time to parboil, four or five minutes. Probable cost, from 2d. to 6d. Broil, To.—In broiling, the first considera- tion is the gridiron. This should be kept most scrupulously bright and clean. It should never be put away dirty, but be polished and rubbed dry every time it is used, and carefully freed from grease, &c., between the bars, as well as on the top of them. It should be placed over the fire for four or five minutes to be heated through before being used, but not made so hot that it will bum the meat; and after that it should be weU rubbed with mutton suet if meat is to be cooked, and with chalk for fish; and it is im- portant that a separate gridiron should be kept for these two. The gridiron should be placed a little above the fire, and held in a slanting direction, so that the fat which flows from it