CHB ( 137 ) CHB Christinas Plum Pudding.—The plum pudding is a uatioual dish, and is despised by foreign nations because they never can mfike it tit to eat. In almost every family there is a recipe for it, which has been handed down from mother to daughter through two or three generations, and which never has been and never will be equalled, much less surpassed, bv any other. Three or four recipes are here given, every one of which has been proved and approved. Every in- gredient composing these puddings should be fresh and good, as one bad article, and espe- cially one bad egg, will spoil the whole. The puddings are, we think, better when boiled "in moulds, which should be well buttered before the mixture is put in, should be quite full, and should be covered with one or two folds of paper floured and buttered, and then with a flom-ed pudding-cloth. When bread is used, which makes a pudding lighter than flour, a httle room should be allowed for swel- ling. A pinch of salt should always be remem- bered, as it brings out the flavour of the other ingredients. After it is tied in the cloth the pudding should be put into boiling water, and kept boiling until it is taken off, when it should be plunged quickly into a basin of cold water ; by this means it will be less likely to break when turned out of the mould. It is usual, before sending it to table, to make a little hole in the top an(i fill it with brandy, then light it, and serve it in a blaze. In olden time a sprig of arbutus, with a red berry on it, was stuck in the middle, and a twig of variegated holly, with berjies, placed on each side. This was done to keep away witches. It is a good plan to mix ^uch more than is needed, and to make several^puddings instead of one, boil all together, and warm one up when necessary. If well made, Christmas plum pudding will be good for twelve months. It should be boiled for eight or nine hours some days before it is wanted; and when it is to be used, plunged again into boiling water, and boiled for at least two hours. Christmas Plum Pudding.—Take one and a half pounds of bread-crumbs, half a pound of flour, two pounds of finely-shred beef suet, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of currants, washed, picked, and dried, two pounds of sugar, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and citron-peel, that is, two ounces of each, two small nutmegs grated, the juice of a lemon, and the rind finely chopped, a tea- ,^ spoonful of salt, two ounces of sweet almonds, • blanched and sliced, sixteen eggs, a glass of brandy, and as much milk as will wet it, but no more than that, as it makes the pudding heavy. It should be as stiff as paste. Mix aU the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add the eggs and milk, and, last of all, the brandy. Boil it, and keep boiling for ten hours. Suffi- cient for a largo family pudding (big enough for fourteen or sixteen persons) or four or five small ones. Probable cost, 63. 6d. Christmas Plum Pudding (another way).—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet with a little flour to prevent it sticking, add a pmch of salt, a quarter of a pound of stoned p * raisins, a quarter of a pound of sultanas, half a pound of currants, half a pound of bread- crumbs, two ounces of flour, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, 6ix sweet and six bitter almonds, blanched and shred finely, half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of candied lemon and citron, and the rind of half a lemon finely chopped. Mix thoroughly, then add four weU-beaten eggs and a wine-glassful of brandy. Let these stand for five or six hours, then add a cupful of milk, and boil for three hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Christmas Plum Pudding (for children). — Shred finely three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, and add to it a pinch of salt, one pound and a half of bread- crumbs, half a pound of flour, three-quarters o£ CHRISTMAS PUDDING. a pound of muscatel raisins (these can be pur- chased loose, not in bunches; they are then almost as cheap as the ordinary- pudding- raisins, and the flavour is verj^ superior), three- quarters of a pound of currants, picked and dried, two ounces of candied lemon and citron together, and half a large nutmeg. Mix these thoroughly, then add four eggs and milk enough to moisten it, but not too much, or the- pudding -wall be heavy. Tie it in a pudding- cloth well floured, and boil for five or six hours^ Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten children. Christmas Pudding, Economical and Good.—Shred very finely a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, add a quarter of a pound of flour and a quarter of a pound of finely- grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of currants,, picked and dried, six ounces of stoned raisins,, two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of mashed carrot and the same of mashed potatoes, one ounce of chopped candied lemon and one ounce of fresh lemon-rind, salt to taste, and a table-spoonful of treacle. Mix these ingredients well together, tie loosely in a floured cloth, boil for four hours, and serve with brandy sauce. If possible, let this- pudding be made a few hours before it is wanted. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Christmas Pudding. Teetotaller's, Small.—Take one pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, pour over them a cupful of new milk, and let them soak until the millr is