APP APP ( IG ) oiglit iniiuitos to fry. rrobublQ oost, lOd. iSutlicieiit for four porsoiis. Apple Fritters, Rich..—Tuko a pint of \ hot cruiun, two f^hissua of port wiuo, uiid u | cupful of alo; mix woll, tiud -svlion cold, udd tho yolks of four (i-^f^s aud tho whites of two, ali whiskod: a littlo suit, ginger, and nutmeg arc au improvuinout. Lot the apples, prepared aa in the preceding recipe, soak in wine and sugar for two or three hours before using. Throw thorn into tho batter, drain, and fry thorn in boiling oil or lard. Wlien tliey are tender, place them on blotting-paper for two or throe niinutoa, and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish. Tlioy should bo dry enough to bo oaten with tho fingers. Time to fry, eight minutes. Suflicient for ton or twelve persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the vnne and ale. Apple Gateau.—Boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water till it makes a vich syrup. Peel, core, and slice very thinly two pounds of Nonpareil, or any other nicely-flavoured apples which will fail easily. Boil in the syrup ■with tho rind and juice of a lemon until stiff. Pour the mixture into a mould, and the follo'w'ing day turn it out and ■serve with custard. Time, ahout two hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for iive or six persons. Apple Gateau (another way).—Prepare the apples as in the last recipe. ^Vlien reduced to pulp, add half an ounce of gelatine which has been previously soaked for three-quarters of an hour in four table-spoonfuls of water. Stir all over the fire until the gelatine is dis- solved, pour into a damp mould, and, before serving, stick into the gateau two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced. Serve with a good custard roimd the dish. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Time, an hour and a half. As the gelatine will help to stiffen the gateau, the apples need not boil so long as in the previous recipe. Apple Ginger.—Boil gently together a quarter of a pound of whole ginger bnused, three pounds of sugar, a pint and a half of water, and the juice of three lemons. Bring it to the boil- ing point, then put in three pounds of ajjples weighed after they have been pared and cored. Simmer them gently, and let them remain until the apples have become clear, but be careful that they are not broken. They must be kept in a covered jar in a dry place, and will keep good for some time. Time, three-quarters of an hour, to boil the apples. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Apple Ginger (another way).—Imitation OF PuHSEuvEi) GixGEK.—Take four pounds of apples, weighed after they have been pared and cored, and cut them into quarters; make a syrup of two pounds of sugar boiled in one pint of water, and pour it over the fruit. Let the apples stand in this two days; then add four pounds of loaf sugar, and the chopped rind and juice of three lemons. Put into a muslin bag two ounces of bruised ginger, and half a tea- spoonful of cayenne. Let all simmer until tho fruit is soft, but not broken, and tho juice clear: add a glass of gin. Time to siuuuer, about an hour. Probalilo cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four one-pound jars. Apple Ginger (another way). — Pare, core, and slice three pounds of hard apples. Put them into a little cold water, to preserve the colour, until tliey are n^quired. lioil to a syrup tliree poundh of loaf sugar and a pint and a half of water, with the Juice of two lemans and a little of the rind. 'J^hrow in the apples; let them boil until clear, and add, a few minutes before they are ren^o^'ed from the fire, an ounce and a half of concentrated ginger. Keep them in covered jars, in a dry j)lace. Time to boil, three-quai-ters of an h*ur. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Apple Hedgehog. — Take two dozen large apples, part's and cored: boil them to a smooth jam, sweetened and flavoured with es- sence of ahnonds. Pare one dozen and a half more, scoop out the cores, and boil them in sugar and water until tender. Take them gently out of the saucepan, and fill the hollow in the middle of each with any bright-coloured jam, and arrange them on a dish, in two or three layers, as nearly as possible in the form of a hedgehog. Fill the empty space with the jam, and make all smooth. Cover the whole with sugar icing, and stick almonds blanched and split thickly over it. Place the dish into a good oven, to make the apples hot and brown the almonds. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Sufficient for eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Hedgehog, Iced.—Dissolve in a well-lined saucepan eight ounces of good sugar with half a pint of water, and stew in the sjTup until tender a dozen or more good- sized apples, pared and cored. Drain them from the sugar, and pile them on a dish to resemble the form of a hedgehog. Slice eighteen or twenty good boiling apples, keep them over a very slow fire until they are a smooth, dry pulp, then fill in, so as to make an even surface, all the spaces between the apples, as well as the hollows from which the cores were taken, with it. Spread it evenly all over with the back of a spoon. Make an icing with the whites of three eggs, and three heaped tca- spoonf uls of white sugar. Of this lay on a thick coating, w-hich must again be covered with sifted sugar. Cut half a pound of blanched almonds in the usual spiked form, and fix them thickly over the hedgehog. Bake to give the almonds a little colour, and wann the apples through in a moderately hot oven. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to stew ripples. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons Apple Jam.—Pare, core, and slice four pounds of good baking apples: jjut them in a saucepan with three pounds of sifted sugar, and the grated rind and juice of four lemons. Stew gently, stirring constantly until the jam is firm and smooth. Put it into covered jars, and keep it in a dry place. It is a good plan to lay the apples and other ingredients in layers in a stone jar, and place the jar in the oven in the middle of a tin full of water, which is to be replenished a.s *