COB CON ( 163 ) Cut it into pieces one inch and a half square, Btrdw salt, pepper, and pounded mace rather plentifully over each piece, and put a layer at the bottom of a deep pie-dish. Fill the dish with alternate layers of oysters and pieces of fish. The tinned oysters will answer excellently for this purpose. Pour over it some strong gravy made of the bones of the fish and the liquor of the oysters boiled in good stock, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost: conger, 3d. to 6d. per pound; oysters, 7d. per tin. Sufficient, a pie made with two pounds of conger and a tin of oysters, for six persons. Conger Eel Pie (another way).—This fish is often plentiful and cheap, particularly in the western counties. In Cornwall, conger eel pie is one of the most approved of fish pies. Take a small conger eel, cut it into pieces of two inches in length. Eoll them in flour, and place them in a pie-dish, seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, allspice, chopped parsley, and thyme. Pour in half a pint of water and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and bake with a common crust in a moderate oven. It is good hot or cold. Time, one hour and a half. Conger Eel, Roasted.—Take a piece from the middle of a large conger eel, about twelve inches in length, clean it without open- ing. Make a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, shred suet, parsley, lemon-thyme, pepper, and salt; bind with an egg and stuff the eel full, securing both ends with a buttered paper. Dredge it with flour, and baste frequently; throw a tumbler of cider into the dripping-pan, or, if the cider is not to be had, a small quantity of vinegar. "When half done, change the end by which it hangs, and continue to baste till quite done. It may be baked in an oven, but is more liable in that case to be dry and over-done. Time, about one hour. Probslble cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Conger Eel Soup.—Put a bunch of savoury herbs into a saucepan, with a large carrot sliced, two large onions sliced, and two bay-leaves. Fry them to a light bro-mi, then add four quarts of water. Let it boil, skim it well, season it with one ounce of salt, and half an ounce of pepper, and put into it five pounds of the head and tail part of a conger eel. Simmer gently and continuously for two hours, strain the soup, and put with it a pint of green peas. A few minutes before it is sers'ed, put jn a pint of new milk. Time, three hours. Probable cost conger, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five pints of soup. Conservative Pudding. — Take two ounces each of ratafias and macaroons, and four ounces of sliced sponge-cake, put them into a basin, and potir over them half a pint of boiling cream. Let them soak for half an hour, then beat them well with a fork, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs well beaten, a wine-glassful of brandy, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Butter a plain mould, orna- ment it with dried cherries, or any tasteful device, pour in the mixture, cover it with but- tered writing paper, t'e it in a cloth, and steam it until it is firm in the centre. Turn it out upon a hot dish, and pour round, not on it, a sauce made by boiling a quarter of a pound of sugar and a bay-leaf in a cupful of water for ten minutes. Probable cost, 28., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four persons. Cool Cup, A.—Hub five ounces of loaf sugar upon the rind of a large, fresh lemon. Pour over it a bottle of cider, the juice of the lemon, haJf a nutmeg grated, and a tumblerful of sherrj-. Stir it until the sugar is dissolved, and put on it a sprig of borage, thyme, or mint. It vnU. be better if placed on ice for a little while. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cider and sherrj'. Sufficient for a one-quart cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Put a slice of hot toast, and a quarter of a pound of sugar into a large tankard. Pour over these three table- spoonfuls of brandy, six of sherry, and a pint of good ale. Lay a sprig of bahn or borage on the top, and let the liquid stand for a little while. Time to stand, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the liquids. Sufficient for a quart cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Pare and core three large apples, slice them, and also three large lemons, and lay them in a deep basin in alternate layers, with sugar strewn over each layer. Pour over them a bottle of claret, cover the basin, and let it stand for four hours. Strain the liquid and serve it with a lump of ice in the cup. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the claret. Sufficient for a pint cup. Cool Cup (another way).—Pour a pint of claret and a tumblerful of water into a large cup. Mix with them two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, two drachms of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of a small nutmeg grated, and the thin rind of half a small lemon. Put a sprig of borage, or a little cucumber-rind with it for two or three minutes before using. Sufficient for a quart cup. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the claret. Cool Cup (another way.)—Take three- parts of good lemonade and one of sherry or Madeira, add three or four lumps of ice, and serve. Coratch.—Put into a pint of vinegar two shallots, and a clove of garlic sliced, two ounces of chillies, cut, a wine-glassful of soy, and the same of walnut ketchup ; infuse three weeks in a bottle closely corked, and filter for use. The liquid will be improved by keeping. Time, three weeks to infuse. Sufficient, a tea- spoonful or more will flavour half a pint of sauce. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Corncrakes, To Roast.—Truss these birds in the same way as grouse. Dredge a little flour over, and fasten a slice of fat bacon on the breasts. Put them down to a clear fire, baste them well, and roast them twenty-five or thirty minutes. Five minutes before they are taken down, remove the bacon, so that the breast may brown. Send them to table with a little brown gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a tureen. Probable cost, uncertain. Four for a dish.