CEL ( 113 ) OAU Cauliflowers (au Gratin).—Cleanse, trim, and quarter one or two lai'ge cauliflowers. Throw tliem into boiling water, and let them remain for five minutes; di-ain and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are ready. Whilst they are boihng rrux smoothly together in a stewpan an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, add a quarter of a pint of cold water, and a little popper and salt. Let the sauce boil, and stir it over the lire for ten minutes. Put in with it an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and one table-spoonful of cream, and take the saucepan from the fire. Cut the cauliflowers into neat pieces; lay half of these in a tureen, pour a little of the sauce over them, and add the remainder of the vegetables and th.3 rest of the sauce. Sprinkle a large table-spoonful of bread- raspings and another of grated Parmesan over the top, and bake the preparation in a hot oven imtU it is nicely browned. Serve very hot. Time to brown, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cauliflowers, with Parmesan Cheese.—Choose three or four young, finn, white cauliflowers, cut o£E the stalks and the stems, making them flat, so that they will stand nicely in the dish. Cleanse them thoroughly, and boU them untU tender, but not sufficiently so to TWO. any risk of their breaking. Dish them 80 as to make them look like one caiiliflower, and powder them thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Pour a good sauce over this. When it is firmly set, add another layer of cheese, and strew over this some finely-grated bread- crumbs. The sauce may be made thus :—Kub a table-spoonful of flour into half an ounce of sweet butter, mix it smoothly over the fixe, and add very gradually a breakfast-cupful of water, one pinch of salt, and a small pinch of pepper. Stir it constantly tiU it boils, then take it from the fire for a minute or two, and add slowly the yolk of an egg mixed with the juice of half a lemon and a tea-spoonful of water. Stir until the whole is well mixed. Brovm the caiiliflower with a salamander or in a hot oven, pour a little sauce round, and serve hot, as a third course dish. Time to boil the cauliflower, twelve to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for six persons. Caveach Fish. — Clean some large fish, either cod, salmon, or mackerel, and cut them into slices. Rub each slice well with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; and fry them in hot butter or lard till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then lay them in jars. Boil some spices in vinegar, allowing two finely-minced shallots, two cloves, a blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of black peppercorns, and two bay-leaves to a quart of vinegar. Nearly fill the jars with this, when cold, and put on the top a little salad- oil. Tie them down closely. The fish will keep good for some months. It should be prepared when the fish is in full season, and when served, the pieces should be piled in the middle of the dish, and a salad served round them. Probable cost, cod, 6d. per poimd; salmon, Is. 2d. per poimd; mackerel, 4d. or 6d. Caviare and Mock Caviare.— The true caviare must bo bought. It is usually eaten as a relish, with dry toast, pepper, lemon- juice or vinegar and oil. When fresh, the taste is rather like that of oysters. It is made of the roe of sturgeon or salmon. ^Mock caviare is made by pounding boned anchovies, with a clove of garlic; then mixing with the paste lemon- juice or vinegar, salt, cayenne, and a few drops of salad-oil. It should be served spread thinly on bread and butter or toast. Time to prepare, about haK an hour. Probable cost, anchovies, Is. per half pint bottle. Cayenne, Home-made.—Cayenne is so much adulterated, and A-aries so much in strength, that we strongly advise those who are partial to it to make it themselves. Some of that sold in England has been found to be coloured with red lead, and even that sold in Jamaica is not to be relied upon, as it is prepared from several sorts of red capsicums, aU of inferior quality both in pungency and flavour. The best time to make it is in September or October, and the chiliea should be used as fresh as possible. Take two hundred large chilies, remove the stalks and dry them in a colander before the fire, being careful that they do not burn. Pound them,, with a quarter of their weight in salt, to a fine powder. Put the powder into a bottle and cork it closely. The flavour of this cayenne will be superior to that sold in the shops, and it will not be nearly so fiery. Time, fourteen hours to dry. Sufficient for a quarter of a pound of cayenne. Probable cost of chiLies, from Is. 6d. to 3s. per hundred. Cayenne Vinegar or Essence.—Put half a pint of brandy, wine, claret, or ATnegar into a bottle with half an ounce of cayenne. Let it infuse for three weeks, then strain and bottle it for use. This essence is excellent for flavouring sauces, gravies, &c., but it should bo- used judiciously, as the strength of cayenne varies so much that is impossible to say how much ought to be used. The best way is to put in two or three drops, then taste, and add more if required. Cecils.—Mince very finely four table-spoon- fuls of any kind of cold meat, and put it into » saucepan with an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crimibs, a dessert-spoonful of chopped onions, two or three boned anchovies, a Uttle salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a dessert-spoonfidof minced parsley,, and a piece of butter warmed. Mix them over the fire for a few minutes, then take them off,, and, when cool, add the yolk of an egg. Form the mixture into balls rather larger than a hen's' egg, dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry till they become a Ught brown. Serve with good brown gravy. Time to fry, ten- minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, -Jd. each. Allow one for each person. Celeriac.—The stalks of this vegetable can hardly be distinguished from celery. It is much more easily cultivated, and cooked in a much shorter time. It maybe boiled, stewed, and served with white or browTi sauce in the same manner as celery. Four or five minutes wiU stew it. Celery.—This vegetable imparts an agree- able and peculiar flavour to soups, sauces, &c. It is generally eaten raw, the brittle leaf-stalks