( 436 ) MUS MUS to a fine powder. Fill quite dry bottles, and keep iu a dry place, the bottles to be corked and sealed. Sufficient for a gallon. Mushroom Sauoe for Chicken Chicken, Mushroom Sauce for). Mushroom Sauoe, Fowl, Boiled, with {"ft: Fowl, Hoilcd, &(•.). Mushrooms, Sauce of, Brown.^But- ton or flap nmshrooma may bo used for this sauce. Thoy should bo rinsed in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth, and, if flap ones, cut into pieces. Simmer the mushrooms, without stalks, in half a pint of beef gravy, add a little muslu'oom ketchup, and an ounce of butter, blended with floui-. If liked, flavour with lemon-peel, and squeeze in some of the juice before serving. Time, twenty to twenty- five minutes. Mushrooms, Sauce of, White.—To preserve the colour of this sauce see that the mushrooms are well cleansed from the soil that hangs about them, and drop them, first re- moving the outer sldn by moans of salt, into a bowl of water and lemon-juice. Drain, -wipe dry, and chop them finely, without the stalks. Put them with an ounce of butter into a stew- pan to simmer until tender, but do not let the butter get colour. Add half a pint of bechamel sauce, and sinuner a few minutes longer, when tlie sauce should be rubbed through a fine sieve. Serve hot. When required to be warmed, place it into a vessel of boiling water. Serve poured over boiled fowls. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. Sufficient, one pint of mushrooms for half a pint of sauce. Mushroom Toast.—Stew over a gentle fire a quart of nicely-prepared mushrooms (just opened ones), first dissohing three ounces of butter in the stewpan, and seasoning the mushrooms with white pepper or cayenne, a salt-spoonful of mace, powdered; stir them oarefuUy, and toss them in the pan to prevent burning, and until the butter is dried and slightly broAvn, when add half a pint of thin cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a little salt, and stew until the mushrooms are tender. Beef-gravy- may be substituted for the cream, and the grated lemon-peel omitted. Serve on buttered bread, fried or grilled, which should be thick enough to allow of the inside being scooped out. Serv^e hot, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over. Time, fifteen minutes "to stew in butter; five minutes in gravy. Mussels.—Mussels are cheap and full of flavour. They may be used with advantage instead of oysters for fish sauces and stews. Many people are afraid of them, thinking they are poisonous, but they are wholesome enough if well washed, and if the piece of weed, and also a small crab often found inside, are removed before serving. Thoy should bo avoided in those months which have not u in the names. Mussels, la Pouhitte).—Prepare the mussels according to the directions given for Mussels, Boiled. Strain the liquor, beard the niuHsols, and dip thorn in plenty of hot water, then put thorn on a soft cloth to drain. Mako a sauce as follows :-Blend together an ouuco of butter with an equal quantity of flour, and stir it oyer a slow lire for a minute or two, then moisti'U with the strained liquor, and add two (lessort-spoonfulH of chopped parsley, pre- yicjusly si^ilded. 'J'uke it off the tire, and stir in the bwiten yolks of two eggs and another ])ieco of butter, about half an oum^i. I'ut the mussels on a dish in their shells, detached, and jjour the suuce over. Mussels and Rice.—Cleanse the shells in the usual way. lloil the mussels and re- move the beards. Stniin their liquor for use. Pick, wash, and soak thirteen ounces of rice, and boil as for curry. When ready, season with pepper, siilt, nutmeg, and add an ounc« and a half of butter, with a little of the musstd liquor and the fish, which should be aU wanned together, or warm up the mussels for the centre of a dish, and place the rice round as a border. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil rice. Mussels, Boiled.—Brush the shells thoroughly, and wash the mussels in several waters, in order that they may be entirely free from grit. Put them into a deep sauce- pan (without water) and sprinkle a little salt over them. Spread a napkin upon them in the saucepan, put the lid on, and scald them over a sharp fire. Shake them about briskly, in order to keep them from burning. As soon as the shells open, take the sauce- pan ofl: the fire, strain the liquor into a bowl, and take out the fish. Very carefully remove the little piece of weed which is found under the black tongue. If the mussels are left too long on the fire they will become leathery. Mussels, Fried.—Cleanse and boil in the usual way, but when bearded lay them out to drain on a soft cloth. Make a thick batter with two eggs, their liquor, an ounce of butter, and as much flour as •will be required; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel and minced parslej'. Thicken this batter over a slow fire, pour it when quite smooth and thick into a basin, and with a fork dip each mussel into it, and when well covered place each one on a board to get cold and harden, when they should be rolled in fine bread-crumbs, and fried in boiling lard to a light brown. Serve, arranged high in the centre of a dish, with parsley as a garnish, or as a garnish for fried or boiled fish. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Mussels, Ketchup of.—"SVhen carefully prepared and cooked, mussels make a variety of wholesome and agreeable dishes. The shells must be first cleansed by repeated washing and brushing, and afterwards be well rinsed in a colander until the drippings are quite clear. Put them into a large iron saucepan with only the water that hangs upon the shells. Cover closely, and shake the mussels while heating to expedite their opening. As soonas this is aocom- plishod (they will be hard and indigestible if koi)t over the fire too long), turn them into a clean eartlien pan, b(>ard them, and nMuovc tlio weed, crab, and black part. Take a ]iint and half of carefully«picked mussels, md jiouud thero in a