( 141 ) CLO coc sweet almonds blanched and pounded, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of sherry or brandy. When these are thoroughly mixed, put them into a covered jar for two or thi-ee hours. Make some pastry with twelve ounces of baked floui-, two ounces of groiuid rice, two ounces of sweet Abnonds blanched and pounded, and a table- spoonful of sifted sugar. Mix these to a paste with half a pint of water, and the juice of a lemon. Lay it on the baking board, and put half a pound of butter in the middle, turn over the sides, and roll it out, not too tliin, then fold it in thi-ee, and roll it again, twice repeating; place another half pound of butter on the pastry in little lumps, which must be sprinkled over with flour, the pastry folded in three, then rolled lengthways and sideways, the turning over and roUing to be repeated three times. Put it into a cool place between the rolls {see Puff Paste). When it is to be made up, roU it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Divide it into about two dozen squares, place a little of the mixture upon each square, and turn one comer over, wetting and pressing the edges to make them stick, so as to make a three- cornered tart. Place them on a well-buttered tin, and bake in a good hot oven. Before fierving, they may have a little sugar icing placed on each puff, and be returned to the oven for a few minutes to dry. When the pastry is cooked the puffs are done. Sufficient for two dozen puffs. Probable cost, 2d. each. Clove Cordial.—Put two drachms of cassia buds, two drachms of bruised cloves, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a blade of mace into a bottle, and pour over them a little iot water. Let them remain near the fire, closely corked, for forty-eight hours, then strain the liquid into three pints of spirit, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Two or three drops of prepared cochineal may be added to give the cordial a brighter colour. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for two quarts. Cloves, Tincture of.—Put three ounces of bruised cloves into a quart of brandy, and let them soak for a fortnight. Strain, and bottle it for use. Or, dissolve one ounce of fresh oil of cloves in one pint of rectified spirits of wine. The probable cost will depend on the strength and quality of the spirit. Two or thjeo drops will be sufficient to flavour mulled wine, &c. Coblentz Pudding.—Nearly fill an or- dinarj' pie-dish with apples, pared, cored, and sliced. Spread a little finely-sifted sugar over them, and place five or six lumps of butter about the size of a nut amongst them. Cut the very thin rind of a lemon into narrow strips, and strew these over the apples. If hard, add a little oold water and bake till soft. Pour a pint of boiling milk (in which a little lemon-rind has been soaked) over two table-spoonfuls of arrow- root, mixed with a little cold milk, stir it imtil smooth and thick, sweeten it, and when cool pour it over the apples, and bake it a nice brown. The appearance of this pudding will bo improved if a little thick custard is laid upon it before it is sent to table. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Coburg Pud<^ing8.—Mix half a pound of fine flour very smoothly with a little water, and add gi-adually one pint of new milk, four ounces of butter, half a pound of currants, thi-ee table-spoonfuls of sugar, six well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into some well-buttered cups, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Cochineal Colouring. — Boil fifteen grains of powdered cochineal in half a pint of water; add a piece of alum about the size of a nut, and one drachm and a half of cream of tartar. Let the ingredients boil very slowly for half an hour; strain the liquid, and bottle it closely. Keep it in a cool place. It will keep better if three or four lumps of sugar are boiled with it. Sufficient for nearly half a pint. Cock-a-Leekie.—Boil a young fowl in two quarts of white stock until it is tender. Take it up and put it aside. Wash two bunches of fine leeks. Trim away the roots, and part of the heads, and cut them into one-inch lengths. Put them into the broth, and add half a pound of boiled rice, and a little pepper and salt. Boil half an hour. Cut the fowl into neat joints, put it into the soup, boU up, and serve very hot. The above is true Cock-a-Leekie Soup. The soup bearing this name is, however, as often served without the fowl as with it. Time, one hoiir and a half. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Cockles, Boiled.—Cockles should be washed in two or three waters, and the shells well scrubbed vnth. a hard brush, then put into salt and water, not over strong, to cleanse themselves. They are best roasted on a tin laid on a stove, and eaten while hot, with bread and butter and a little pepper and vinegar. To boil them, put them in a clean saucepan, with a table-spoonful of water at the bottom of the pan, and a clean towel laid over them. Shake the saucepan constantly, to pre- vent them burning. As soon as the shells open they are cooked enough. They may be dressed in all the ways, excepting frying, practised with oysters and mussels. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient, allow one pint for each person. Cockle Sauce.—Prepare a gallon of cockles as for boiling {see the previous recipe). Set them on the fire, and when the shells open, strain the liquid from them, throw the shells away, and strain the liquid through musUn, to clear it from sand. Stir in a pint of good melted butter,- and add a table-spoonfiil of vinegar, or the juice of a lemon, and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Stii- the sauce over the fire for two or three minutes, but do not let it boU, and serve it with cod or had- dock. Time, about twenty minutes altogether. Sufficient for four pounds of fish. Probable cost of cockles, 3d. per quart. Cockles, Pickled.—Prepare the cockles AS for sauce {see the previous recipe); strain.