LAM ( 358 ) LAM of lomon and a little parsluy. A saddle or a shoulder of lamb may bo cuokod in the saiui; way. Time to bake, an Ikjuv and a }ialf. Pro- bablo cost, Is. per pound. Suliiciout for iive or aix persons. Lamb, Leg of, Boiled.—Put a plump le<? of lamb into as mufh boiling- watur aa will barely coyer it. Lot it boil a few minutes, then add a little cold water; draw the pan to tlio side of the tire, remove the scum carefully as it rises, and afterwards ahmncv ijentli/ until done enough. A tea-spoonful of salt should bo thrown into the water when the lamb is half cooked. Place the moat on a hot dish, garnish it with tufts of boiled cauliHowor or carrots, and send caper sauce to table with it—a little poured over the joint, and the rest in a tureen. The loin may be cut into steaks, fried, and served round garnished with parsley. Time to boil, a quarter of an hour for each pound, counting from the time the water boils the second time. Pro- bable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of, Roast.—Put the lamb down to a clear, even fire. Baste it plentifully with good dripping, and twenty minutes before it is ready to serve, bring it nearer to the fire to brown it nicely. Place the lamb on a hot dish, pour over it a small quantity of gravy made from the contents of the dripping-pan, and 36nd a little more to table in a tureen. Jilint sauce and green peas, or boiled cauli- flower, usually accompany this dish. Time to roast, twenty minutes to the pound. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of, Stewed.—Put a leg of lamb, weighing about five pounds, into a deep baking-pan with two turnips, a carrot, a leek, at clove of garlic, three tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and as much water as will cover it. Put it in a moderate oven, and let it remain for an hour after it begins to simmer. At the end of that time, put with it a pint of young green peas, a sprig of mint, and a small lump of sugar, and let it stew half an hour longer. Serve it on a hot dish, with the vegetables round it, a little of the gravy poured over, and more in a tureen. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Leg of. Stewed, with Bechamel, or White Sauce.—Put a leg of lamb into a convenient-sized stewpan, and with it two or three veal-bones. Cover it with boiling water, bring it gently again to the boil, and remove the scum carefully as it rises. Add two large carrots, two bunches of parsley, one bunch of thyme, and half a dozen peppercorns, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Take half a pint of the gr&ry, and mix it with half a pint of good cream. Add a table-spoonf id of flour smoothly mixed with a little water, a bunch of parsley, a dozen small mushrooms, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and boil softly for an hour. Put the lamb on a liot dish, strain the bechamel over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. JJoUed cauliflower or carrots are an excellent accompaniment to tliis dish. Probable co-it, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five persomi. Lamb, Liver of, To Fry.—Soak the liver in c(dd water for half an hour. Cut it into tliin slices, and boil tfiese for ten minutes. Place theni in a dry cloth to drain ott' tiie water, strew a little pepper on them, dredge flour over them, and fry in hot fat until they are brightly browned. If the flavour is liked, an onion linely minced may be fried with them, or a few rashers of bacun. Garnish with parsley, and send good brown gravy to table with the meat. Time, ten minutes to boil, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Lamb, Loin of. Braised.—Take a loin of lamb, skewer down the flap, and cover it all over with slices of fat bacon. Put it into a braising-pan, or, failing this, a saucepan, as nearly as possible its own size, with a closely- fitting lid, and pour over it a pint of good stock. Add half a dozen young carrots, a bunch of young onions, a blade of mace, two bunches of parsley, one bunch of thyme, a tea- spoonful of salt, and three or four peppercorns. Simmer very gently until the meat is done enough. Take it out, drain and dry it, reduce the sauce to a glaze, and brush this over the meat. Serve the lamb on a hot dish, and with it some green peas, spinach, or asparagus. Time, two hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Loin of. Stewed—Take a loin of lamb, skewer down the flap, and put it into a saucepan, nearly its own size, with half a pint of good unseasoned stock, three ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of chopped mint- leaves, the strained juice of half a lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper. Cover the pan closely, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Take out the meat, boil the sauce quickly for a few minutes, brown the meat before the fire or on the gridiron, pour the sauce over it, and serve as hot as possible. The foUo-wTng sauce may be sent to table with it:—Take one pound- weight of the white part only of some onions, and chop them small; then put them into a saucepan -with three oimces of fresh butter, and shake the pan every now and then over the fire until the onions are quite soft. Pour over them half a pint of good stock nicely seasoned, mix them thoroughly, then pass the whole through a hair sieve; let it boil up once more, add four table-spoonfuls of boiling cream, and serve at once. The sauce must not boil after the cream is added. Loin of lamb is very good if sim- mered softly with the butter only. It should be turned over when it is half done, and will require from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour longer than if the broth, &c., wore added. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Neck of, Boiled.—Pbm.ffG a nook of lamb into as much boUmg water as will barely cover it Let it boil for five