IRl ( 329 ) about three inches across. Boat them well, and smear them with the yolk of egg. Cover the collops with the bread-crmnba and cui-ry-powder. They should be thickly incrusted with crumbs, and will require to be again saturated with the ecrg.yolk. Dip them into it this time, and powder well Avith the bread-crumbs. Fry in plenty of butter, and make a sauce with more butter, a little curryrpowder, and some good gr&vj. Thicken with flour, and add the juice (strained) of a lemon. Boil, and serve round the collops. Time, twenty minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for an entree. Ingoldsby Christmas Pudding.— Take of stoned raisins, well-washed cmrants, and finely-shred suet, each one pound; of flour and stale grated bread-crumbs, mixed, one pound; and one pound of sifted sugar. Put these ingredients into a large bowl with a quarter of an oimce each of candied peel, cut into bits, and mixed spice, the grated rind of a lemon, and a small nutmeg. Moisten with eight eggs, strained and well beaten, and two glasses of brandy or rum. This quantity will make two good-sized puddings, enough for six persons. Time, six hours and a half for the whole quantity, ioxix hours for half. Probable cost, 3s. 4d., exclusive of the brandy. Inky-pinky.—Cut slices of under-done roast beef about half an inch thick, and remove the skin and gristle. Boil these trimmings for two hours with the bones, chopped small, until a strong gravy is obtained. Add it to what- ever may have been left from the roasting of the previous day, and strain into a clean stew- pan, in which simmer the slices of meat, cold boiled carrot, and an onion cut into quarters. Do not allow it to boil, or the meat will be tough. Add pepper and salt, and a little vinegar or ketchup, thicken the gravy with flour, and serve very hot with sippets of toasted bread. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Institution Cup (an American drink).— Cut an orange into slices, pour over these a glass of brandy, and add a pint of champagne, a gill each of strawberry and pine-apple syrup, and a tumbler of ice in shaves. These ingre- dients should be well mixed and strained into tumblers. Invalid's Cutlet.—Get a cutlet from the loin or neck of weU-fed, fat mutton, but cut away aU the fat, and leave nothing but the lean, which put into a stewpan, with just enough water to cover it and a very little salt. Stew gently, and add a small quantity of celery cut into thin shavings. Carefully skim oS any fat that may appear on the top, and when it has stewed about two hours without boiling, the meat will be easy of digestion. Add pepper and salt to taste. Time to stew celery, thirty to thirty-five minutes. Invalid's Lemonade.—Put about haHof a sliced lemon, pared and divested of the inner skin or pith, with the parings, and an ounce or two of lump sugar, into a jug, pour boUing water over these ingredients, and cover closely. In two hours strain for use. To the above quantity of lemon add a pint of water, which will make a refreshing lemonade. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint. Invalid's Soup.—Split a calf's foot, and cut a pound of good, lean, juicy beef and a pound of lean mutton into small pieces. Put them, together with half a gallon of water, into an earthenware jar, and bake in a slow oven from six to seven hours, adding another quart of water, a small tea-spoonful of whole allspice, and a leaf or two of sage, when the mixture has been stewing three or four hours. "When the soup is reduced to half the quantity, strain through a sieve, and, when cold and a jelly, remove the fat. This soup may be taken cold, or warmed up with a little vermicelli, and pepper and salt to taste. Probable cost, 2s. Id. Sufficient for three pints. Irish Black Pudding.—This pudding is excellent cut into thick slices when cold, and broUed over a clear fire, or warmed in an oven. If so served up it should only be boiled an hour, but will require longer time if eaten hot. To a pound of good beef suet, chopped very fine, half a poimd of bread-crumbs, and the same of well- washed currants, add four ounces of pounded sweet almonds, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, nut- meg, and cloves, in powder, some candied peel, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten. Separate the yolks from the whites of four eggs, beat the yolks, and moisten the above ingredients with them stirred into the mixture with a pint of cream and a glass of brandy. Lastly, put in the frothed whites of two eggs and boU in a cloth. Sufficient for five or six persons. Irish Brade Breachd.—To a quartern of flour rub in lightly a quarter of a pound of butter, melted. Mix it in an earthenware pan to a dough, with three table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and warm water enough to make tho dough firm, then put it in a wann place, covered with a cloth, to rise, and, when sufficiently risen, add the following ingredients:—Of currants, well washed and dried, stoned raisins, and finely- powdered sugar, each a quarter of a pound; some candied peel, cut into strips, half a large nutmeg, grated, and some blanched sweet al- monds, chopped. Make into loaves and bake. Irish Brade Breachd (another way).— Get dough from the baker, and let it rise in a covered pan before the fire, then beat the butter to a cream, and warm the milk, about a quarter of a pint, slightly, add it with the other ingredients, and knead well for a few minutes. Cake-tins should be buttered, and only half filled. Put them in a Avarm place to rise before being put into the oven. Time, from an hour and tluree-quarters to two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for a loaf. Irish Cake.—Put a pound of good fresh butter into a large bowl, and turn it back to a cream with the hand. When well turned, beat into it three-quarters of a pound of dried sugar, finely sifted and made hot before the fire. Separate tho yolks from the whites of nine eggs, and, when well beaten, stir in the yolks, keeping the hand moved round in the same direction for about twenty minutes, when dredge in by degrees a pound and a quarter of dry flour mixing well, as before, for another 'twcn'y