vi CASSELL'S COOKBEV. bimd-iiisiniigb. You need not fear the expense, as your baker will probably Bui)ply you with them for nothing. Have this always ready in a small flour-dredger on the kitchen mantelpiece. Having diied your flsh thoroughly, floured it, and egged and bread-crumbed it with small, flne, diy brciul-crumbs, take this dredger containing the golden-brown bread-raspings, and before gently patting your fish, cover it over lightly with a bro^vn fllm of flne raspings, and, lo and behold ! your flsh, before even it reaches the frying-pan, has obtained the colour you desire. All you have now to do is to concentrate your- mind 'ni cooking the flsh, so as to hit upon that hapj»y medium between its being dried up so that it is tough and unpalatable on the one hand, and an appearance of redness and stickiness along the back-bone, which are sure and certain signs that the flsh is not sufficiently well cooked, on the other. To attempt to convey an idea with regard to the time tliat a flsh takes to cook would be necessarily impossible. Of course this entirely depends upon the thickness of the fish. Nor would I confine my directions to the cooking of flsh solely. A sweet- bread is an exceedingly nice dish when projjerly fried and sent to table, presenting an ornamental appearance. I would, however, remind you that in all cases where the substance to be fried is beyond a certain thickness, it must previously be what cooks call parboiled. I would also impress upon you the importance of erring on the side of under-cooking rather than on over-cooking. Suppose, for instance, you have to fry a sole of somewhat unusual thickness. First take care that the fat in which you fry it is amply sufficient to cover the fish. Suppose now, you leave this fish in boiling fat for the minimum of time you think will be requisite to cook it. It is easy to remove the fish from the boiling fat carefully with a slice, and with a small knife cut the meat away from the back-bone in that part of the fish which is thickest. Should you find the meat adhere to the bone, and at the same time present a red appearance, you will know that the fish is not sufficiently cooked. In thLs case all you have to do is to place the fish back again for a few minutes longer in the boiling fat. Had, however, you waited for the maximvmi time, and foimd it over- cooked, I know of no method by which you could imdo the harm you have done. One hint as to mending what we may term patches. In cutting the fish you will probably displace a small portion of the outside, and thereby make one of those extremely disagreeable-looking places which we before likened to a scalded cat's back. If you have by you in readiness the dredger containing the bread-raspings, one sprinkle will hide the patch. Cooks with a very slight efibrt of ingenuity might often cover over these necessary little borings of discovery. I would, in passing, remind cooks that the secret of successful frying to a great extent depends upon the fat being hoUing. You cannot fry properly over a slow fire. Now when you have placed a good-sized frying-pan upon the fire, full of melted lard, it is not always easy to know when this fat is reaUy boiling and when it is not, for the simple reason that boiling fat will not bubble up like boiling water. To know, therefore, if the fat be boiling, dip your finger into cold water, and let one drop fall into the middle of the fat. Of course, the cold water, having greater specific gravity than the fat, would instantly sink, and if the bottom of the frying-pan be sufficiently heated, this drop of water will cause a hissing sound, from its instantaneous conversion into steam, resembling that of plunging a red-hot poker into water. I would, however, warn young beginners against throwing in, in their hurry, too much water at a time, as the sudden con- version into steam of the water thus thrown in will very probably cause the fat to splash, and a few drops of really boiling fat upon the hands and aims will be found