COD ( H6 ) COD Cod-fish Cakes.—Tako tho remains of cold cod, remove tlic skin and bones, and weigh the meat. To every pound of cod allow an equal weight of well-mashed potatoes, a tea- apoonfiil of salt, half a tea-spoonful of poiipor a few drops of anchovy, half a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, one egg, and sufHcient milk to bind the mixture together. If the dish is suited the salt must bo omitted. Make the ijuste ui) mto small cakes about an inch thick, fry them in hot butter or lard till they are well browned on both sides, and serve them as hot as possible. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, (id., exclusive of tho cold fish. Allow two or thr( cakes for each person. COD FOE TABLE. Cod for Table.—A small cod is fre- quently boiled whole; but in a large fish, the head and shoulders are the most edible portions. It should be dished carefully, so as not to break it, upon a very hot napkin, and garnished with the liver and roe. Tufts of horse-radish, slightly grated, are generally placed round the dish. Oyster sauce and melted butter should be served with it. Anchovy sauce may be used if oysters are not to be had. Cod, Fried.—The tail end of the cod is best cooked in this manner, as it is not much es- teemed when boiled. Steaks may be cut from the middle and served in this way also. Cut the fish into slices rather more than an inch thick, wash them well and dry them thoroughly in a clean cloth. Eoll them in flour, and sprinkle a little salt and grated nutmeg over them. Plimge them into boiling lard, and fry them till they are lightly browned on both sides, and the flesh parts easily from the bone. Put them on a piece of clean blotting paper to clear them from fat; serve them on a hot napkin, and send them to table garnished with parsley and ac- companied with melted butter or anchovy sauce. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost of cod, 8d. per pound, when plentiful. Sufficient, three pounds for four or five persons. Cod, Pried (Cold Meat Cookery).— Take tho remains of cold cod. Break it into pieces about two inches long and one broad, and dip each into a light batter. Fry them in hot lard or dripping. Put them on blotting paper to clear them from tho fat, pUo them on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Cod, Head and Shoulders of .—Wash the lish thoroughly, rulj a little salt on tho inside of it, and bind tape round tho cheeks to prevent them breaking. If the fish is ciimped, it cod's HEA.D AND SH0UXDEE8. may be plunged into hot water, if not, cold must be used, but it must be poured very gently over tho cod so as not to break tho skin. A table-spoonful of salt should be allowed for every three quarts of water. As soon as the water boils, draw the kettle on one side, remove the scum carefully, and let the fish simmer gently till it is ready. Drain it well, and serve on a hot napkui with the roe and Uver, which should be cooked separately, and a little horse- radish and sliced lemon for garnish. When the flesh parts easily from the bone the fish is ready. Send oyster or anchovy sauce and melted butter to table with it. The time to boU will depend on the size, quality, and age of the fish; a small, young head and shoulders will not require more than twenty minutes; and a large, old, solid one may take forty. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cod Head, Browned.—A cod's head in London is usually sold and sensed with the shoulders, but in some places it is cut off, and tho rest of the fish retailed by the pound. As the head contains one or two of the tit- bits, namely, the tongue, the nape of the neck, and the gelatinous parts about the cheeks, it makes a very good dish. Take two or three heads, remove the eyes, wash the heads, drain them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and let them lie an hour or two; put them into boiling water, and boU them from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size. Take them out, drain them, remove the sldn, and dredge a little flour equally over them. Place them before a clear fire, and baste them weU with good dripping or butter. When they are lightly browned they are ready. Garnish vnth. parsley and sliced lemon. For sauce, thicken a breakfast-cupful of the liquid in which the heads were boiled, with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil this, stirring it aU the time, till it is quite smooth: add a table-spoonful of Icmon-juicc, and send the sauce to table in a tureen. Probable -cost of cod's head, 2d. each. Sufficient, two or throe for a dish. Cod Mould.—Take the remains of cold cod or any cold fish, weigh it, .and with one pound of fish mix three table-spoonfuls of