(183) DAN Bhowery weather may be had throughout aum- mer and winter. Gather an equal quantity of fresh dandelion and sorrel leaves. Pick oft' all the withered tips and hard paiis of the roots; shred them into tine strips, and wash them free from grit. Put the dandelion by itself into a copper stewpan, cover it with a small quantity of boiling water, and stew until nearly tender; add the sorrel, and simmer imtil the water has evapo- rated and the whole is soft. Mash with a wooden epoon; stir in a lump of butter ; flavour with pepper and salt, and serve like spinach. The dish may be garnished in a variety of ways, either with hard-boiled eggs, sippets of fried bread, or slices of boiled carrot cut into shapes. It is usually served with white meats, as veal, sweet- breads, &c.; but it is excellent as a garnish for poached eggs. Some persons cook this vegetable without soiTcl, but to our taste it is too bitter, and wants toning down. It is impossible to fix a price for the plant, as it is not a market article. It wlU, in all probability, be more often found on the tables of the rich than of the poor, not from its cost, but from its peculiar taste and flavour. Dandelion "Wine.—Grct four quarts of the yellow petals of the dandelion, and pour over them into a tub one gallon of warm water that has previously been boiled. Stir it well round, and cover with a blanket, to stand three days, during which time it should be stirred fre- quently. Strain off the flowers from the liquid, and boil it for half an hour, with the rind of a lemon, the rind of an orange, a little ginger, and three and a half pounds of lump sugar to each gallon; add the sugar and lemon, from which the rinds were removed, in slices to the boiling liquor, and when cool ferment with yeast on a toast. When it has stood a day or two put it into a cask, and in two months bottle. This wine is said to be specially adapted to all per- sons suffering from liver complaints. Darioles.—Butter the dariole moulds and line them with a thin paste made as follows :— Beat half a pound of butter to a cream ; stir into it very gradually one pound of flour, with which three ounces of tine sugar has been mixed, and the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, beaten separately. "^Tien the moulds are lined, have ready a custard to fill them, composed of DARIOLK MOULDS. the following ingredients:—Eight well-beaten eggs, without the whites, six crushed maca- roons, two ounces of sugar, half a pint of cream, end half the grated rind of a small lemon. These should be stirred over the fire until the custard thickens, when it is cool the darioles may be filled and baked. They will take fifteen minutes in a quick oven; they should rise like a souflle, and be served at once ■with Buj^ar strewn- over, or they will fall. ' Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to fill twelve moulds. Darioles la Duchesse).—Proceed as be- fore directed. This recipe differs in allowing more time for baking, and requiring no boihng of custard. Mix half a pint of milk with two ounces of flour, three oimces of pounded sugar, six well-beaten eggs, and two ounces of butter into a batter, and put it at once into the moulds, first adding a little essence of vanilla, drop by drop, tmtil the mixture is flavoured. The es- sence of lemon, almonds, or cinnamon may be substituted for vanilla. The moulds should be only three-parts filled, and from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes allowed for baking. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for seven moulds. Dartmouth Pie.—Mince two pounds of mutton, from which all the fat has been cut away, and add to it one pound of finely-shred beef suet, one pound of well-washed currants, four ounces of sugar, and a little salt and nut- meg. Make a paste by boiling two ounces of butter with four ounces of beef suet, and work- ing it into eight ounces of flour. Cover the mixture with this paste, and bake for an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Date Cake (for Dessert).—Insert in place of the stones, which should be carefully re- moved, blanched almonds. Line a square tin with rice-paper; fill in layers of dates, and press down with a weight. Turn out on a glass dish. Garnish with shces of orange. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Delaville Pudding.—Take of candied peel, orange, citron, and lemon each one ounce, slice them very finely, and cover the bottom of a dish which should be lined with a rich puff paste. Put six ounces of good butter into a clean saucepan, and beat into it the same quan- tity of finely-sifted sugar, stir it over a slow fiLre, adding gradually the yolks of four well- beaten eggs. When ready to boil, pour the mixture into the pie-dish over the candied peel, and bake slowly. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Delaware Pudding.—Make a good suet crust in the proportion of one pound of flour to half a pound of suet. Prepare four large apples, take out the cores, and divide them into slices; put these into a lined saucepan with two large table-spoonfuls of sugar, i tea-spoon- ful of minced lemon-peel, and a little grated nutmeg. Wlien slightly pulped, roll out the paste thin, cover it to within an inch of the margin with the apples, and strew some currants on it, then roU up the pudding in a floured cloth, securing the ends properly, and boil for about two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Deptford Pudding.—Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three in separate basins. Put a quart of new milk into a well- lined saucepan, and stir into it, as soon as it boils, six oimces of bread-crumbs, and the rind of a lemon grated. Sweeten to taste, and add to it six ounces of meltf d butter and the egg