COL COL be kept in a cool place in a mould with, a weight upon it. Calf's head, pig's head, veal, beef, tongues, and fish can all be prepared in this way, and are generally highly approved. College Puddings.—Shred sLx ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it six ounces of well-washed currants, six ounces of sifted sugar, half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a dessert- spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, three eggs well beaten, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Form the mix- ture into little puddings about the size and shape of a large duck's egg. Eoll them in a little flour, and frj' them, till lightly browned, ia plenty of lard or butter over a clear but not too strong a fire. Drain them from the fat, and serve them, piled high on a hot napkin, with wine sauce. Time to fry, from twenty to thii'ty minutes. Sufficient for eight puddings. Pro- bable cost, lid. each. CoUege Pudding, Baked.—Blanch and povmd four ounces of sweet and half a dozen bitter almonds. Mix them with six table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pound of sweet butter. Beat all well together, then add the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, and a wine-glassful of brandy. When well beaten, pour the mixtm-e into a pie-dish over a layer, about an inch thick, of apricot or any other jam. Bake in a good oven. If preferred, the dish may be lined with a good puff paste before laying in the jam. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. College Puddings, Baked (another way).—These puddings, which are generally served fried, as in a foriner recipe, are much nicer baked. Wben this is done, they should have another egg, or a table-spoonful of milk added to make them lighter. Pour the mixture into well-buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Before serving, timi the puddings out of the cups, and sift a Uttle pounded sugar over them. Probable cost, Is. Id. Sufficient for eight puddings. Collier's Roast.—The collier's roast is the name given in Scotland to a leg of mutton which has been put into pickle {see Pickle) for a few days before it is roasted. It is then cooked as usual, carrots and turnips being sent to table with it. CoUops, Beef. — Take two i^unds of tender beef steak, and cut it into roimds about three inches wide and three-quarters of an inch thick. _ Dredge a little flour over these, and fry them in hot butter or dripping tiU they are lightly browned on both sides. "Vut them into a stewpan -ssdth a j^int of good gravy, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful' of white pepper, a tea-spoonful of capers bruised, a tea-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and two pickled gherkins thinly sliced. Simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes, and send to table as hot as possible. Probable cost, beef. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Collops, Beef, with Onions.—Prepare the meat as in the last recipe. Dredge the collops with flour, and put them in the frying- pan with six or eight large onions cut into rounds, and four ounces of butter, lard, or di'ip- ping. Pepper them, and when they are browned, cover the pan closely. Before serving, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, add half a cupful of boiling water, and a table-spoonful of ketchup to the onions. Boil up, and pour the sauce round the meat. Time, twenty to thirty minutes, or until the onions are tender. Pro- bable cost, beef. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Collops, Minced, Scotch.—Mince beef very small, salt and pepper it, and put it, while raw, into small jars, and pour over it some clarified butter. Wlien wanted for use, put the claiified butter into a fi-ying-jDan, slice some onions into the pan, and frj- them; add a little water, and put in the minced beef. Simmer it gently, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve. Probable cost of beef. Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds make a good dish. CoUops, Savoury, Minced.—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with it; keep stirring the paste tiU it is lightly browned, then add a little pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of savourj' herbs, also half a pint of boiling stock or water. "When smooth and thick stir in one pound of steak finely minced. Move it about with a fork, to prevent its getting into lumps, and when it is quite hot put the cover on the pan, draw it back, and let the collops simmer very gently for ten minutes ; before serving, add the juice of a small lemon, or a table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Collops, Savoury (to imitate Game).— Prepare collops as in the recipe for Collops, Beef. After they are browned, put them into a saucepan, cover them with good gravy, season rather lightly with salt and pepper, and add a little poimded mace. Thicken the gravy by putting with it a lump of butter rolled in flour, and simmer the collops gently for three-quarters of an hour. Before serA-ing, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, and pour a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a wine-glass of port to the gravy. Let it boil, then pour it over the meat. Send red currant jeUy to table with, the meat. Probable cost, Is. id. per pound. Sufficient, two poimds for four persons. Collops, Scotch. — Cold meat as well fresh meat may be used for coUops. Cut some pieces from the fillet of veal about two inches wide and half an inch thick, and sprinkle over them some salt, white pepper, and pounded mace. Fry them in some hoi butter or lard tiU they are lightly browned, then lay them in a stew- pan, dredge some floui- thickly over them, and add as much good stock as will cover the veal. Put it on the fire, bring it to a boil, skim care- fully, and simmer it gently for three-quai-tcrs of an hour. Take out the veal, lay it on a hot dish, add to the gra-s'y the juice of'a lemon, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of claret, and tAvo or three grains of cayenne; boil the sauce once more, pour it over the meat, and