PAN PAN ( 601 ) should tiitit be whisked thoroughly, the yolks and whites separately, the flour should then be added, and when it has been beaten until it is quite free from lumps, the milk or cream should be put in. In making plain pancakes, two table-spoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a pint of milk should be allowed to each egg. If a Lu-gor proportion of eggs be used, less flour will bo required. The fire over which pancakes are fried should be clear and bright, and the frj-ing-pan scrupulously clean and hot. In order to insure this, it is best to melt a little fat in it, then pour it away, wipe the inside quickly roimd with a dry clean rag, put in a little more fat, and afterwards pour in the batter, which should cover the pan entirely, and bo as thin as possible. The edges of the pancake should be kept free from the pan with a knife, and the pan must be shaken lightly, to prevent sticking. When the batter is set, and the under side of the pancake nicely browned, the pan should be taken hold of at the end of the handle, and lightly jerked upwards, so as to turn the pancake completely over, and in a minute or two it will be ready for ser\dng. If any diSiculty is found in throwing up the pan- cake, it may be turned with a slice, or cut in two, and then turned. Pancakes may be dished in various ways, either flat, with sugar sifted between, or rolled and piled on a hot napkin, or placed side by side in a dish. Lemon and sugar are generally sent to table with them, and they should be served as hot as possible; they may be flavoured according to taste. A few chopped apples, or a tea-spoonful of dried currants, is sometimes mixed with the batter, or sprinkled upon it when it is set in the pan, and another thin coating of batter poured over; and pancakes thus made are called apple or currant pancakes. Pancakes are much more easily fried in a small pan than in a large one. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost of batter, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Recipes foi the following pancakes will be found under their respective headings:— American Pancake Balls Apple Pancakes, French Apples with Custard » Plain Cream Rissoles Currant )> Rose- French coloured Ginger J) Scotch Indian >■> Snow Irish »> Stuffed Leipzig » Windsor New England Without Oxford Eggs or Milk Pancakes a la Creme ElCE Pancakes (another way).—Break three eggs in a basin, add a little salt, and beat them well up; put to them four ounces and a half of flour, mix together with milk till the whole is of the consistency of cream. Heat the frying-pan, and for each pancake put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Pour in the batter when the butter boils, until the bottom is covered. Fry the pancakes on both sides to a light brown. Serve one by one, or roll them up and send three or four together. Pancakes (a la Creme).—Rub the rind of half a small fresh lemon with thi-eo or four large lumps of sugar until the yellow part is all taken off, then crush the sugar to powder, and mix with it a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a small pinch of salt, and an ounce of dried flour. Make this into a smooth paste with a little cold milk and an ounce of clarified butter, then stir in very gradually half a pint of thick cream, and the well-whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, fry the pancakes very quickly, and serve them as hot as possible. They should be very thin; a second supply of butter wiU not be required for frying. Time, three or four minutes to frj' each pan- cake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pancake Balls.—Dissolve half an ounce of yeast in a little lukewarm milk, and mix it with half a pound of flour, adding as much milk as is necessaiy to make a stiff dough. Set this in a bowl by the side of the fire, cover it with a cloth, and leave it to rise. Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, rub five or six large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon until all the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder, and mix them with the butter; add four well-beaten eggs, and knead all thoroughly with the dough. Make the mixture into small balls, insert a little mannalade or jam into the centre of each, close the aperture, and put them in a warm place to rise for a few minutes longer. Fry them in boiling fat until they are lightly browned, drain well, and dish, them on a folded napkin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time, about ten minutes to fry the balls. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pancakes, French.—Make a batter by beating up together three spoonfuls of potato- starch, five raw eggs, some powdered loaf sugar, and a little water. Add enough milk to make it of the consistency of porridge. Butter well the inside of a frying-pan, and place it over a moderate fire. When it is sufficiently hot, pour in a large spoonful of the batter, and shake the pan so as to spread it over the whcJle of its surfaf^e. When the pancake is done enough, thi-ow it on a dish, and sprinkle its surface with crushed loaf sugar, or cover it with jelly. Pancakes, Plain. —Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and pour them into a bowl con- taining four table-spoonfuls of flour. Beat the mixture until it is smooth, and quite free from lumps, then add a pinch of salt, and two-thirds of a pint of new milk. Let the batter stand in a cool place for an hour or two, then fry the pancakes according to the directions given above; half an ounce of dripping will be required for each pancake. Time, five minutes to fry one pancake. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cicnt for three or four persons. Pancakes, Rissoles.—Prepare a pint of batter as for plain pancakes, and in making it substitute pepper and salt for sugar and nutmeg. Mince a pound of cold veal or beef very finely, ajid season it with salt, cayenne,