Ixxx cassell's cookkky. this service is conducted will chiefly depend the more or less favourable judgment awarded (independently of their real claims to superiority) to the wines put before the guests. " First, let it be remembered that all possible care sliould be taken in removing the bottles from their bins, and afterwards, also, in handling them for the purpose of drawing the corks and decanting the wines, not to disturb any deposit that may exist in the bottles, for that deposit, if shaken, destroys not only the brilliancy of the wine," but impairs its flavour and bouquet. " The different kinds of sherries, ports, madeira, and all Spanish and Portuguese vanes in general, are the better for having l)eeii decanted several houi-s before being rlrank. During winter their aroma is improved by the temperature of the dining- room acting upon their volatile properties for an hour or so before dinner-time. By j^aying due attention to this part of the process, all the mellowness which good wines acquire by age predominates to the delight of the epicure's grateful palate. Tlie lighter wines, such as Bordeaux, Burgundy, and most of the wines of Italy, should b© most carefully handled, and decanted an hour only before dinner-time. In winter the decantei-s should be either dipped in warm water or else placed near the fire to- warm them for about ten minutes previously to their being used. In summer, use the decanters without warming them, as the genial warmth of the atmosphere will be all-sufficient, not only to prevent chilling the wines, but to develop their fragrant bouquet. Moreover, let these, and all delicate wines, be brought into the dining- room as late as may be consistent with convenience. " And now as regards the order in which wines should be served during dinner. I would recommend all bon vivants desirous of testing and thoroughly enjoying a variety of wines to bear in mind that they should be drank in the following order, vii. :—When it happens that oysters preface the dinner, a glass of Chablis or Sau- teme is their most proper accompaniment; genuine old Madeira, or East India sherry, or Amontillado, proves a welcome stomachic after soup of any kind, not excepting turtle, after eating which, as you value your health, avoid all kinds of punch, especially Roman punch. During the service of fish, cause any of the fol- lowing to be handed round to your guests; Amontillado, Hock, Tisane, Champagne, Pouilly, Meursault, Sauterne, Arbois, Vin de Grave, Montrachet, Chateau-Grille, Barsac, and generally all kinds of dry white wines." Having enumerated a variety of different kinds of Bordeaux, Burgundy, Champagne, and other vnnes, Mr. Franca- telli proceeds to say, " A question of the highest importance, but into which I may but briefly enter, is to determine to which of all these wines a decided preference should be given, both with regard to taste and also in respect co their influence on the health of different temperaments. It is easier to settle the latter part of th& question than the former, inasmuch as it is difficult, nut to say impossible, to lay down rules for the giiidance of the palate. Thus there are some who delight in the pei-fumed yet austere bouquet of Bordeaux, whHe others prefer the delicate fragi-ance of Champagne ; some give the palm to the generous and mirth-inspiring powera of Burgundy; while the million deem that Madeii'a (when genuine), port, and sherry, from what are termed their generous natures, ignoring the plentiful admixture of alcohol, are the only wines worthy of notice. All these tastes are no doubt well enough founded on good and sufficient reasons, and may prove safe mdicators for the^ preservation of health ; for instance, a person of sanguine temperament feels a neces- sity for a light sapid wine, such as genuine Champagne and Ehenish ^v^nes, whue the Dhlegmatic seek those of a more spirituous, generous natui-e—Burgundy, port.