PAR ( fill ) PAR birds down before a cleax fire, baste liberally with butter (a quarter of a pound will be required for a brace), and a few uiinutes before they are taken up flour them well, so that they may bro^vn nicely. The birds may be dished upon fried bread-crumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the gravy in the pan under the birds, or they may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with water- cresses. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table with them; two or three thiu sHces of fat bacon, tied round the birds before they ai-e put down to the fire, will greatly improve their flavour; when obtainable, a large Tine-leaf may be laid on the breasts under the bacon. Time to roast a brace of partridges, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. per brace; but the price varies considerably. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Partridges, Roast (a German recipe). —Truss the pai-tridges in the ordinary way. Place a vine-leaf upon the breast of each, over this lay two or three thin slices of fat bacon, and fasten these on securely with strong twine. Put the birds into a stewpan, just large enough to hold them, with as much butter as will keep them well basted, and when CABVING OV FABTBISQE. they are browned on one side turn them to the other, until they are equally coloured all over. When they are done enough, pour a cupful of thick cream over them, and sprinkle bread- crumbs, browned in butter, upon them. Time, a quarter of an hour to roast the birds. Pro- bable cost, 3s. per brace. Sufficient for four or five persons. Partridges, Roast, To Carve.—The partridge is cut up in the same way as a fowl {tee Fowl,_Eoast, To Carve). The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrj-^- thought. When the bird is small, .the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered the best, and the tip of it considered the most delicate morsel of the whole. " Partridges," says Dr. Kitchener, "are cleaned and trussed in the same manner as a pheasant, but the ridi- ciilous custom of tucking the legs into each other makes them very troublesome to carve. In connection with the subject of carving, it cannot be too often repeated, that more infor- mation wiU be gained by observing those who carvo well, and by a little practice, than by any written directions whatever." Partridge Salad.—Roast partridges, and let them get cold; or cut and trim the remains of cold partridges into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into a dish or bowl, then sprinkle over these a little salt and cayenne, with a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a table^ spoonful of mixed herbs, composed of equal portions of taiTagon, chervil, and chives. Add a table-spoonful of good veal stock, three dessert- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of salad-oil. Let the partridges lie in this maiinade for two hours. Wash and dry thoroughly three fresh lettuces, shred them finely, and lay them on a dish. Drain the pieces of partridge, and put them on the lettuce, ornament the dish with dried capers, parsley, gherkins, hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, aspic jelly, or anything else that is pre- ferred, and just before the salad is sent to table poui- the seasoned mixture, in which the pieces were soaked, over it. Time to roast the partridges, about half an hour. Probable cost of partridges, 3s. per brace. Partridges, Salmi of (a la Chasseur).— Take cold roast partridge—if under-dresseo. so much the better—cut into neat joints; remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and lay the pieces in a saucepan with four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, six table-spoonfuls of claret, the grated rind and strained juice of a large fresh lemon, and a httle salt, pepper, and cayenne. Simmer gently for a few minutes until the salmi is hot throughout, then serve it immediately. Gar- nish with fried sippets. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Partridges, Salmi of (a la Francjaise).— Roast a brace of well-hung young partridges, baste them liberally, and take them down when they are only three-parts cooked. Let them get cold; then cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and put the good parts aside, being careful to cover them, and keep them in a cool place to prevent their becoming hard. Melt three ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it a dozen small mush- rooms, a scraped carrot, two sliced shallots, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a handful of parsley-leaves, a medium-sized onion, stuck with two cloves, a small sprig of thyme, and four ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into small pieces. Stir these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a table-spoonful of flour, let it brown slightly, and then stir in, very gradually, a pint of good veal gravy and a glassful of sherry. Add the bones and tiimmings of the birds, and boil the sauce gently until it is considerably reduced; then strain it, let it boil up once more, put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, dish the salmi, and serve imme- diately. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. When mushrooms cannot be obtained, their place may be supplied by a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Time, an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the partridges. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Partridges, Salmi of (another way).— When the partridges are roasted expressly for the salmi they ought to be imder-dressed, and they should not be cut up imtil they are quite cold. A very good salmi, how- ever, may be made of the remains of cold partridge. Cut tho birds into neat joints.