IQD ( ) BID Kidney Beans {xce Beans, Pronch or Kidnny). Kidney Beans, White, Fricasseed. —Tiike ono pint of (lithur Irtiwh or dry whito kidnoy boau«. liuiiiovo tlio skinw; and in ordor to do this, tho beans, if dry, must Le soaked in water for ton or twelve liours, and aftorwarda boiled until tender, when tho skins will slip oft'. If fresh, they must be put into scalding water for a minute, and the skins peeled oft'. Put tlio beans into a saucepan, add as much good veal stock as will cover them, with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, a large bunch of parsley, a small one of thyme, and a piece of fresh butter, rolled in flour. Sim- mer gently for fifteen minutes; then take out tho herbs, and put into the sauce a glass of sherry. Lot it boil, then draw it from the fire a minute to cool, and stir into it the yolks of two eggs, mixed with half a cupful of thick cream, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with French beans, pickled. Time, half an. hour to stew the beans after the skins have been taken off. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidney Fritters.—Make a batter with four well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of new milk, and flavoured with a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Stir into this a tea- spoonful each of finely-shred chives, parsley, and mushrooms, and a table-spoonful of the remains of a cold veal kidney finely minced, and mixed with half its weight of fat. Beat together for two or three minutes, then melt an ounce of butter in the frying-pan, pour in the mixture, and stir it untU it is set. When it is browned on one side, turn it on a hot dish, hold a sala- mander or red-hot shovel over it for a minute or two to colour it on the other, and serve immediately. Time, five or six minutes. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for three persons. Kidney Gravy.—Take an ox kidney, or if prefeixed, four sheeps' kidneys, cut into slices, dredge these with flour, and fry them lightly in butter, with a thinly-sliced onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Move them about gently until nicely browned, then pour over them a pint of water. Simmer gently for an hour and a half, strain, and set aside for use. Time, six minutes to fry the meat. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pint of giavy. Kidney Irish Stew.—Take the hard ,)ore out of the middle of an ox kidney, and cut it into pieces about one and a half inches square. Season with salt and pepper, and put it into a saucepan with an onion finely minced, and a quarter of a pint of water, or stock. Let the liquid boil, and remove the scum carefully; then put half a dozen large peeled potatoes into the pan, and simmer gently until they are suffi- ciently cooked, but unbroken. Put the kidney in the middle of a dish, arrange the potatoes round it, pour the gi-avy over all, and serve as hot as possible. Time, one hour to simmer the stew. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Kidney Omelet.—Take the remains of a cold veal kidney, or if this is not at liaud, cut a frosli one into slices, and fry it over a clear lire for tliree or lour minutes. Mince it very finely, season witli tadi and cayenne, and uiix two table-spoonfuls of tlie mince with tho well- beaten yolks of six and tho whites of three eggs. Add tlu'ce ounces of fresh ljutter, broken small. Put two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan, let it remain on a slow fire until it bubbles, then pour in the mixture, and stir biiskly for thi-ee or four minutes until the eggs are set. Fold the edges of the omelet over neatly, and tui'u it carefully upon a hot dish. Serve immeduit<,ly. If too much cooked it will be tough. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for thiee or four persons. Kidney, Ox, Stewed.—Cut a fresh ox kidney into slices the eighth of an inch ia thickness, soak them for a few minutes in luke- warm water, drain, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Season them with a little pepper, dredge flour thickly over them, and fry them in three ounces of hot butter, or dripping, until they are brightly browned. Pour over them as much cold water or stock as will cover them, and add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which onions have been pickled, or, if this is not at hand, plain vinegar or lemon-juice; a finely- minced shaUot, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little salt and cayenne. Stew gently tiU done, and thicken the gravy before serving it. Half a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard may be stirred into the sauce before it is taken from the fire, if this is liked. Time to stew, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Kidney Pie (for breakfast or luncheon).— Take four veal kidneys, and half its bulk in fat with each. Cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season rather highly ■with salt and cayenne, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace for the whole. Cut the meat from a calf's foot, and season it in the same way. Place a layer of kidney at the bottom of a pie- dish, strew over it two ounces of finely-minced ham, and lay on this the slices of calf's foot. Eepeat until the dish is nearly full. Put the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs and half a dozen forcemeat balls at the top, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of veal stock, flavoured with lemon-juice. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover it with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. Though forcemeat balls are an improvement to the pie, they may bo dispensed with. They are made as follows: — Strain ten or twelve oysters from their liquid, mince them very finely, and mix them with four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a ten- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and a little salt, cayenne, and mace. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Bind them together with the un- beaten yoik of an egg and a little of the oyster liquor, make them into balls, and they are ready for use. This pie, which is generally a favourite, should be eaten cold. A good pi(>, may be made with cold kidney and a few slices of tho kidnov-fat from a cold loin of vonl. instead of fresh kidneys. Time, from an hour