(33) them, and season them with a pinch of salt and 5he s^me of pepper. Make a hatter wath three eggs, t^v-o table-spoonfuls of oil, and two of flour, men all are well mixed, put the slices of arti- choke into it, and stir it gently for three or four minutes, imtU every piece of artichoke is well covered. Fry gently m hot fat, hemg carefid that the vegetable is cooked throughout as weU as broAvned. Drain off the fat, pile the slices on a napkin, and garnish with a httle fried parsley. Time to fry, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Suflicient for two or three persons. Artichokes (a la ItaKenne).—WeU wash, trim, and quarter the artichokes, and boil them in salt and water until tender. Remove the chokes, diain thoroughly, and arrange them on a dish with the leaves outwards, and intersperse them with watercresses. Pour good white sauce, flavoured with stewed mushrooms, over them. Time .to boil the artichokes, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Allow one artichoke for each person. ASTICHOKE. Artichokes (a la Lyonnaise).—Wash, blanch, and trim four artichokes; then place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Simmer them gently until they are sufSciently cooked, then drain them from the fat, and put them into the oven to brown lightly. Put a cupful of good stock into the saucepan in which the artichokes were stewed. iStir gently for a few minutes, add a glass of white wine, and serve. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient for throe persons. Artichokes la Poivrade).—Take four or live young artichokes: trim them, remove the chokes, cut off the lower leaves, divide thorn into four, and throw them into vinegar and cold water to preserve the colour. When wanted, drain them from the vinegar and water, ])ut them into a dish, and serve like radishes. I'cppor, salt, oil, and vinegar should be sent to table with them. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Sufficient for a small side-dish. Artichokes, Boiled.—Soak the arti- chokes, and wash them in aeveral waters to C expel the insects. Cut the stalks even, and trim away the lower leaves and the ends from the upper one. Boil them in plenty of salted water with the tops downwards, and let them remain until the leaves can be easily drawn out. Send a little Dutch sauce to table with them. Boiled artichokes often form a separate dish. The leaves should be pulled out with the fingers, dipped in the sauce, and carried to the mouth. Time, if young, about half an hour; longer, if old. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Dried.—Wash the arti- chokes in two or thi-ee waters. Put them for a quarter of an hour in plenty of fast-boUing water. Drain, and place them in a mode- rate oven for an hour. Allow them to cool. Eepeat this several times, until they are quite dry. They should be kept in a dry place, well covered. Time to prepare, three or four hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Pried.—Wash, trim, aiid boil the artichokes as directed in the recipe for ARTICHOKE IN SECTION. A The Leaves, b The Choke, c The Bottom. boiling. E-cmove the chokes and the outer leaves, leaving only the most tender. Cut them into about a dozen pieces, then dip them in batter, fry in hot oil or diipping until they are lightly browned, drain, and serve with fried parsley. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Allow three for four persons. Artichokes, Pried (another way).—Pare some artichokes, and boil them in salt and water for about a quarter of an hour. Drain, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cUp them into the white of egg well beaten, and afterwards strew finely-grated bread 0 a them. Fry in boiling oil or lard till they are nicely browned, and serve piled high on a dish. Time to fry, eight minutes. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled.— Peel the artichokes, and throw each root into cold water and vinegar immediately, to preserve the colour. Put them into boUing water, with a little salt, until sufficiently tender for a fork to pass through them easUy, then pUo them on a dish, and serve as hot as possible ^vith molted butter or white sauce poured over. Soyer