BAT BAT it into plenty of cold water to boU; make it como to a boil quickly, and then draw the pan aside to simmer. Time to simmer, from two to three hours, according to size. Skin, and gai-nish with any boiled green vegetable. Pro- bable cost, 9d. per pound. Bath Cream Cheese.—To any quantity of milk, warm from the cow, add a third of the quantity of warm water, a pint of cream, and about two table-spoonfuls of rennet to each three gallons of milk; cover it over and let it stand. When turned, break the curd with the hand, and put it in a cheese-cloth on a sieve to drain off the whey ; take it out, wash it in cold spriug water, and again drain. This must be done three times; the third and last time, in order to get rid of the whey effectually, hot water should be used, and the curd should then be drained and put into the press for six or eight hours. Probable cost of the milk and cream, 2s. per gallon. Batley Pudding.—Mix three ounces of finely-powdered sugar with the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, well beaten. Blanch and pound fifteen almonds, and add them to the eggs with a table-spoonful of brandy. BoU two ounces of ground rice with half a pint of cream; let it stand to cool, then stir in two ounces of clarified butter, and mix all together. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Batter.—This signifies a mixture of flour and milk or water. The addition of eggs, yeast, spirits, &c., depends on the various uses to which it is applied. Many novel, well-flavoured bat- ters maybe made by the introduction of liqueurs, such as ratafia, noyeau, maraschino, or brandy; but they should be used with judgment, and only enough to give the desired flavour. Small slices of meat, cold cooked vegetables, such as caiTOts and celery, joints of fowl, &c., are all excellent fried in butter, and many seemingly useless remnants may be dressed again in tliis way, in a pleasing shape, and used to ornament and accompany other dishes. Batter Cakes of Indian Meal.—Make a batter by mixing gradually one quart of boil- ing water with the same quantity of meal; add a little salt and leave it until nearly cold. Add a little yeast, form into cakes, and prepare in the usual way, that is to say, fried over a clear quick fire. The yolk of an egg is a great improve- ment to the cakes. Time to fry each cake, five or 8ix_ minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Batter, French.—Melt an ounce of butter by pouring over it about an eighth of a pint of boihng water, and again cool it by means of three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Mix it gradually and smoothly with six ounces of dried flour. A very little pinch of salt must be put to the batter if it is for fruit, but it will require more if the fritters are savoury ones. If the batter be too thick, put a little more water, and when all is ready beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and stir it into the batter. This forms an excellent batter for apple, peach, or orange fritters. Probable (Mtt, Cd. Batter for Frying Meat, Fish, Fruit, and Vegetables.—To four ounces of flour add a gill of lukewarm water, a pinch of salt, and two table-spoonfuls of salad oil. Let the mixture stand awhile, and, before using, dash in the whites of two eggs whisked till firm. Batter Fritters.—Make a batter according to recipe given for batter pudding. When ready, ])eel, core, and mince some apples, or if pre- ferred, a few currants may be picked and thrown into the batter. The addition of a little suet to the apples is an improvement, but it must be very judiciously used, as too much will make the fritters greasy. They should be made small. A large table-spoonful of batter is suffi- cient for one fritter. Fry in boiling dripping, and serve with powdered sugar over them. Probable cost, 9d. Time to fry, eight to ten minutes. Sufficient for six persons. Batter, Italian. Fried.—Mix and beat up two eggs with half a pint of French wine or cider and a little orange-flower water. Add this, with two table-spoonfuls of the best Lucca oil, to three-quarters of a poimd of flour and a tea- spoonful of salt. Blend the batter with a spoon until it is like a smooth cream. It should be made an hour or two before wanted, and the frothed whites of two or three eggs sliould be lightly added to it at the time of use. Batter Pudding, Baked. — Separate the yolks from the whites of four eggs, beat them well separately, and throw them in a basin together; then mix them very gradually with six or eight ounces of flour, and a pinch or two of salt. Make the batter of the proper con- sistency by adding little more than a pint of good milk. Bake in a buttered dish for three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. This pudding is much improved by careful mixing. If the eggs, flour, and milk are not well blended together the pudding is often a failure. Pro- bable cost, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for four or Ave persons. Batter Pudding, Baked, and Apples. —Put one pound of apples peeled, quartered, and cored into a weU-buttered dish, and throw over them enough sweet batter to fill it. Add a little pounded clove or grated lemon, and bake in a tolerably brisk oven. The apples will rise to the surface. When quite done, but before removing it from the oven, put on some small bits of butter, and sprinkle sugar thickly over the top. Any kind of fruit may be used for these puddings. Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Batter Pudding, Boiled. — Get one ounce of melted butter. Mix three table-spoon- fuls of flour with a little milk, and thin it to a proper consistency with the rest of a pint, using it very gradually, that the batter may be quite smooth. Stir in the butter in its dissolved state, and keep moving the batter while three eggs, which have been well beaten, are added. A pinch of salt must not be emitted. Put the mixture into a well-buttered basin; tie a cloth over it, and put it to boil at once, or the batter wiU settle at the bottom. It wiU tak« one hour