CHI CHI ( 128 ) and whiter it will bo. Boforo putting it in the pan, place a few slices of lemon on the broiiBt, and wrap the chicken first in buttered papor| then in a floured cloth. Before serving it a little sauce may be poured over it, and the rest sent to table in a tureen. Bacon, pickled pork, ham, or tongue, are generally served with boiled chicken; and parsley and butter, b6chamol, Enghsh white sauce, celery, oyster, or mush- room sauce may accompany it. Time to boil, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost of chicken, 28.6d. Sufficient, one small chicken for two persons. Chicken, Broiled (with Mushroom Sauce)—Pick and wash a chicken carefully, and dry it in a cloth; cut it down the back, truss the logs and wings as if for boiling, and flatten both sides as much as possible. It is always bettor to boil it gently for a few minutes before it is broiled, but this is often omitted. When cold, brush it all over with clarified butter, and remember to baste it now and then whilst cooking it; broil it over a clear, low fire. It should be placed a good distance from the fire, and the inside should be put to it first. The butter should be renewed three or four times. Serve very hot, and let stewed mush- rooms be sent to table on a separate dish. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for two persons. A small, young chicken should be chosen for this method of cooking. Chicken Broth. — This may be made from the inferior joints of a fowl, the best pieces being cooked in some other way; or the fowl may be used after it is cooked, in which case only just enough water must be put over it to cover it. Roast it for twenty minutes before putting it to boil; by this means the flavour will be improved. Generally speaking, a quart of water may be allowed for a medium- sized fowl. Put it into cold water, with very little salt, and no pepper, as these are better added afterwards, according to the taste of the invalid. Simmer very gently for a couple of hours, and sHm the liquid carefully as it comes to a boil. If there is time, pour it out, let it get cold, remove every particle of fat and boil it up again. Chicken broth may be thickened with rice, oatmeal, groats, pearl barley, or arrowroot; and these, besides making it more nutritious, will absorb a portion of the chicken fat, and make it smoother, and lighter of diges- tion. A few pieces of beef put in with the chicken are a great improvement. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for one pint of broth. Chicken Broth (another way).—The best parts of a young fowl may be used for a fricassee or a grill, and the inferior parts will do for this broth; or, an old fowl my be stewed, till aU the bones are bare, in a quart of water, and a little more liquid may be added if necessary. Season the broth wuth salt, pepper, mace, or onion, according to taste and the appetite of the invalid. \VTien the fowl has simmered until it has parted with all its nutriment, strain the liquid through a sieve, cool it, and remove the fat before it is warmed for use. This broth is seldom cared for by those who are in good health. Time, one hour and a half, or till tender. Probable cost, 28. to as. Sufficient for one quart of broth. Chicken Bruised.—Roast a chicken, Wlulo it in hot, ruiiKJve the entire breast, and mince, and pound the flesh in a mortar. Ertak the logs, pinions, &c., and simmer them with two breakfast-cupfuls of water, until the broth is reduced to one breakfast-cupful, then press the breast through a sieve into the gravy, and flavour the mixture with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-rind. Warn tliis up, with a cupful of cream, just before it is wanted. This is a good dish for an invalid. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost of chickens, 28. 6d. each. Sufficient for one in- valid. Chicken, Curried.—This may be made either from uncooked chicken, or with the re- mains of a cold one. When a fresh chicken is used, cut the bird into neat joints and fry them lightly in hot butter or lard till they are brown. Put with them a Spanish onion, sliced, and a few mushrooms, covering all with some good stock. Let this sauce simmer gently for twenty minutes or more. 3Iix two dessert- spoonfuls of curry paste and a spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a little water, and add this to the sauce. A little apple pulp or rasped cocoa-nut may be added if the flavour is liked. Just before serving, stir in a cupful of hot cream, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Serve the curry in a hot dish, with rice {see Rice Boiled for Curry) piled round it. Probable cost, chickens, 2s. 6a. each. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, Curried (another way).—Take the remains of a cold fowl cut it into neat joints, and put aside imtil wanted. Fry a finely-minced apple and an onion shced, in some hot butter or lard. When they are lightly browned, press them through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan with a pint of good gravy Thicken this with a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful of ground rice; boil it gently until it is smooth and thick. Put in the pieces of chicken and let them remain until they are quite hot; squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and just before serving, add a table- spoonful of thick cream. Serve the curry with rice {see Rice Boiled for Curry) piled round the dish. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for three persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold fowl. Chicken Cutlets. — These are usually made of the legs of fowls, when the white ricsh has been taken for something else. Remove the thigh-bones from the legs, but leave the drumstick in its place. Put the legs into a saucepan, cover them with well-flavourod stock, and simmer them very gently till tender. If there is no stock, water must be used, ,ind then flavouring vegetables must be thrown in, a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a few sticks of celery, an onion stuck with cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Take the logs up. put them in press between two dislics until cold and