^ 395 ) MAC may be mixed with the macaroni. Time, fif- teen minutes to swell the macaroni; to bake, half an hour. Snllicieut for seven or eight persons. Macaroni, Pate of (another way).—-See I'iite of JMacaroni. Macaroni Pie. — Boil fom- ounces of macaroni in veal broth or beef bouillon, put part of it over the bottom of a pie-dish, and cover spiiringly with grated cheese and an ounce of butter in small bits. Mince a shallot finely, and a few mushrooms; mix some salt, a blade of mace, pounded, a Kttle pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. Season a pound and a half of steak with these ingi-edients. Cut it from the fillet small and thin; lay the steaks alternately with the macaroni into the dish, covering with macaroni and grated cheese. Run clarified butter over the top, and bake in a sIoav oven for an hour. Probable cost of beef. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Macaroni, Portuguese, Sweet.— Soak three ounces of mac<iroui for an hour be- fore it is required to be prepared. Put it into a bowl, and thi'ow a quart of cold water over it.' "When! wanted, drain on a sieve, and when dry, put it into an enamelled saucepan, to simmer over a slow fire, with a quart of milk and an inch of vanilla to flavour. Stir it occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the pan, and remove the vanilla as soon as the flavour has been imparted.. The macaroni will require nearly two hours to simmer. Sweeten with four ounces of loaf sugar, and stir until dis- solved, then draw it from the fire, and add, separately and slowly, five eggs, well beaten, and, lastly, when again heated to the boiling point, a glass of brandy or rum, and a small cup of thick cream. The macaroni must not boU. Stir it until the heat has gone ofl:, and when cool put it into a glass dish, and in a cold place. Serve when quite cold with nwcaroons, whole or pounded, over the top. I'robable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of brandy. Sufficient for five persons. Macaroni Pudding.—Break four ounces of macaroni into inch lengths, and boil in a quart of wati-r in an uncovered saucepan for fifteen minutes. Drain, and boil again with a pint of milk and two ounces of sugar till tender but unbroken. When cool add two beaten eggs, and flavour pleasantly. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake till brown. For a superior pudding, take additional eggs and stir in a glass of noyau or a little brandy. A little orange marmalade or apricot jam may, if liked, be put in the dish under the macaroni. Macaroni Puddingy Parisian.—Sim- mer six ounces of macaroni for fifteen minutes in water salted slightly. Drain, and cut it into pieces of equal length. Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and mince the white meat of a chicken, or the breast and merrythought of a fine fowl, a slice or two of boiled ham, quite free from fat, a pinch of salt, if necessary, and a very little pepper. Moisten the mince with a cup of thick cream, and two table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Stir the macaroni with the mince, twld the volks of four offgs^ and the. whites of two, {ind steam for thi-ee-quai-ters of an hour in a buttered mould. Servo with a rich veal giavy, tiavom-ed with onion and tarragon, and more gi'ated cheese in a dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Macaroni Pudding, Plain.—Butter a pic-dish, and cover the bottom with about two and a half ounces of uncooked macaroni. Pour over it one quart of cold milk made sweet. Stir in a couple of well-beaten eggs, and flavour with any essence liked, ratafia or vanilla. Put bits of butter over the top, and a little grated nutmeg. Bake in a slow oven for three houi's. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for fom" or five persons. Macaroni Pudding, with Almonds. —Blanch an ounce of sweet and four or five bitter almonds; cut them small, and soak them with four ounces of macaroni broken into inch, lengths in a pint of milk. In an hour or two, when the macaroni has well soaked, simmer it over a slow fire, adding a pint of cream or milk, and as much sugar—pounded loaf—as will sweeten (say about four ounces). When the pudding has simmered and cooled, stii- in two ounces of butter in bits, and six well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture, which should be beaten for some minutes, into a buttered pie- dish, and bake in a moderate oven, A\dth cinna- mon or grated nutmeg over the top. Time to simmer mararoni, three-quarters of an hour; to bake, about one houi". Macaroni, Savoury.—Break two ounces of pipe macaroni into pieces an inch in length, and boil these in a quart of water in an uncovered stiucepan for a quaiter of an hour. Drain and return to the steAvpan with a pint of well-flavoured stock, an onion chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer very gently by the side of the fire till the macaroni is quite tender but unbroken. Make a little custard with three-quarters of a pint of milk and two eggs. Put the macaroni in a greased dish, pour the custard over, and bake in a gentle oven till the oustiird is set .and . lightly browned. If liked, the macaroni may be plainly boiled till tender, then seasoned with salt and pepper, and served with a little maitre d'hutel sauce poured over it. Macaroni, Savoury (a Genoese recipe). —To eight ounces of macaroni, boiled slowly for twenty minutes in salted water, put a quai-t of stock, and simmer again, but not until it has been well drained from the first boiling. A\nien the stock is well absorbed by the macaroni, and the latter is quite tender, mix a dessert-spoonful of unmade mustard with an ounce of butter, add it with quarter of a pound of gi-atecl Parmesan, a seasoning of cayenne (about a couple of grains), and as much white pepper as can be put on a sixpence. Turn the macaroni out on a hot dish, cover thickly with Parmesan, and again with verj' thin slices of butter, and bake to a pale colour. Time, in stock, one hqur or more; to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Macaroni Soup.—This soup is easily prepared, and at short notice. Boil some n»ftcHroni for fifteen or twent,y miuwtc'ii iii