ONI ( 469 ) ONI pint of new milk, and a little salt and pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire \intil it toils, and servo as hot as possible. Time, three-quarters of an hoiu-. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Onion Sauce, Young—Peel half a pint of medium-sized button-onions, and throw them into cold water for half an hour. Boil them until they are 'tender without being broken, then stir them into half a pint of melted butter; add a httle salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Serve very hot. Time, about half an hour to boil the onions. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Soubise Sauce.—Soubise sauce is nothing but superlative onion sauce. It is made as follows :—Peel and slice four Spanish onions ; throw them into boiling water for ten minutes, and then into cold water. Put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and let them stew very gently until they are tender without being at all browned. _ Mix three ounces of flour smoothly with a pint of milk, or, if preferred, half a pint of chicken broth, and half a pint of milk or cream may be used. Add this to the onions, and simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Press the Kiuce through a fine hair-sieve, and when wanted for use make it quite hot, without letting it boil again. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Onion Soup.—Peel haK a dozen Spanish onions, and mince them very finely. Fry them in a Httle fresh butter imtil they are tender without being browned. Pour over them about tlaree pints of nicely-seasoned stock, add a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Press the soup through a hair-sieve, and return it to the saucepan. Grate the crumb of a stale loaf into half a pint of boiling milk or cream, stir this into the soup, and serve very hot. Time, eight or ten minutes to fry the onions. Pro- bable cost, onions, Hd. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Onion Soup (another way). — Peel and slice a dozen moderate-sized onions, and put them into a stewpan, with three pints of boiling stock (the liquid in which a leg of mutton has been boiled will answer very well for the purpose), two ounces of lean ham finely minced, a large carrot, a large turnip, a small parsnip, a few of the outside sticks of a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, quarter of an ounce of white pepper, and a little salt. Simmer gently for one hour and a half, then press the soup with the vegetables through a hair-sieve, and when cold mix in the yolks of three weU- beaten eggs, and half a pint of new milk. The soup may bo stirred over the fire until quite hot, but it must not boU after the eggs and milk are added. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a table-spoonful of ground rice. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost. Is., exchisive of the stock. Onion Soup, Brown.—Take about two dozen small silver onions—such as would be used for pickling—peel them carefully, sprinkle a little sugar on them, and fry them till nicely browned in a little hot butter. Pom- over them two pints of clear brown gravy soup nicely seasoned and strongly flavoured with onions. Let all boil up together, and serve very hot. If prefen-ed, this soup may be thickened by stirring into it a table-spoonful of ground rice or flour mixed smoothly with a small quantity of cold water. Time, about ten minutes to brown the onions. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Onion Soup, Maigre. — Mince haK a dozen medium-sized onions very finely. Put them into a stewpan over a gentle fire with three ounces of dissolved butter, dredge a little flour over them, and move them about until they are tender and lightly browned. Add two pints of boiling water, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs briskly for a minute or two, boil the soup, let it cool half a minute, then stir it in amongst the eggs, and serve immediately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Onion Stuflng for Chicken.—Beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and mix with it a table-spoonful of hot vinegar, half a salt- spoonful of powdered thyme, and as much finely-minced parsley as will make it quite thick. Boil a large Spanish onion in three or four waters until it is tender, press it well, mince it finely, and mix it with the vinegar, &c. Add two ounces of boiled pickled pork cut up into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. A chicken which has been filled with this stuffing should be braised and served with white sauce. Time, one hour to boil the onion. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one chicken. Onions (a la Creme).—Peel four medium- sized Sj)anish onions, and boil them in water slightly salted until they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them on a sieve, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter rubbed smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour, and a little salt and white pepper.' Shake the pan constantly, and stir in by degrees half a pint of cream or new milk. Serve the onions on toasted bread, with the sauce poured over. Sufficient for four or five persons. One hour to boil the onions, quarter of an hour to stew- them. Cost, with cream. Is. 7d.; with milk, 1 Id.. Onions and Eggs {see Eggs and Onions).. Onions Baked (to be served with Eoast Mutton, &c.).—Peel three or four medium-sized Spanish onions, and boil them in salted water for a quarter of an hour, then throw them, into cold water for half an hour. Drain them well, cut them into slices half an inch in thickness, place them in a single layer in a weU-buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven, basting them occasionally with butter,, until they are tender and lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons.