( 392 ) MAC LOZ pound of buttor, and Vhon thoroughly knoadcd lot It stand an hour to rm^, thun mix with it lialf a pound of sifted sugar, and hako in small eako- pans, previously huttcred. Cut ('andiod orango or lemon-p(H!l, and ornauK'nt tho toi). 'J'imi' according to size. Prohahlo cost, 2a. Gd. Lozengos, Black Currant Black Lunant Lozenges). Lozenges, Lemon <.sw Lemon Lozonges). Lozenges, Plum, for Dessert (m- -rlum Lozenges). Luncheon. — This is a kind of intormc- diato meal, and thoroforo not infrequently an unnecessary one. "The English labourer," BJiys a medical authority, "has his 'lunch' between breakfast and dinner, and again between tho latter meal and supper; the English of the higher classes, particularly if th(-ir time is not well occupied, arc apt to make luncheons a kind of dinner—a meal of animal food and stimulants, which, if superadded to dinner, is certainly unnecessary, and therefore productive of disease. Either the luncheon should be made a bond Jide dinner, at an early hour, or it should be a meal without animal food, provided, of course, that an additional amount of animal nutriment is not considered necessary by a medical man, as a remedial measure. Fruit is generally more wholesome at luncheon than in any other part of the day." Luncheon Cake.—Any good plain cake may be used as a luncheon cake, nevertheless recipes are here given for two or three. Rub half a pound of fresh butter into three-quarters of a pound of fine flour; add a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a pinch of salt, half a pound of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, picked and washed, half an ounce of caraway seeds, if liked, half a nutmeg, grated, and an ounce of candied lemon cut into thin slices. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in half a pint of boiling milk. Let it cool, then stir into it three eggs well beaten. Moisten the cake with the liquid, and be careful to mix all very thoroughly. Butter a tin, and line the sides with buttered paper. Put in the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. Li order to ascertain when the cake is done, push a skewer to the bottom of it, and when it comes out clear and dry the cake is done enough. Let it stand entire for two days before cutting. Time to bake, an hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Luncheon Cake, Irish {see Irish Lun- cheon Cake). Luncheon Cake made from Dough. —Take two pounds of dough just ready for tho oven, rub into it tAvo ounces of fresh butter, a quai-ter of a pound of currants, washed, picked, and dried thoroughly, half a pound of moist sugar, and half a large nutmeg, grated, with a little sliced candied lemon, if liked. These in- gredients should be rubbed into the dough very lightly. Put the mixture into a basin, cover it with a cloth, and lot it stand in a warm place to rise. Then knead the dough, butter some tins, three-parts fill them with the cake, let it agJiin i-ise for a few minutes, and bake in a moderate oven It bread is not made at home, a httlo dough may be procured from the T i>^"",^ ^ ^''^''^ '^^""^ li'^ur and a halt. Probable cost, is. Luncheon Cake, Plain.—Sfix two tea- Hj)oonlul8 of ljaking-i,owd<-r and a pinch of s^ilt with one pound of flour; rul) in four ounces of good beef drii)j)ing, add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, six ounces of currants, picked and stoned, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of an ounce of caraway seedij, if liked. JIake the mixture up into a paste with two eggs and half a pint of milk, bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven. This cake is better if left for a day before it is cut into. Time to bake, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 9d. Lyonnaise Sauce for Cutlets, &c.— Cut . the stalks from half a dozen larg(; rij,,; tomatoes. Divide them into halves, and put them into a stewpan with four table-spoonfuls of good gravy and a Httle salt and cayenne, and let them simmer very gently. When quite tender, press them through a hair sieve. Slice two Spanish onions very finely, fry them in a little fresh butter until they are soft and very lightly browned, then put them into a stewpan with the tomato-pulp, two table-spoonfuls of good brown gravy, and a table-spooivful of strained lemon-juice. Stir gently over the fire for three or four minutes, and serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the tomatoes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. SuflB^cient for six or eight persons. M Mab'S Pudding {see Queen Mab's Pud- ding). Macaroni.—This is a peculiar paste or dough, prepared from wheat flour, and manu- factured into tubes or ribbons. It is an Italian invention, and though made by a simple process, has never been produced with such success in any other country. The grain grown in the southern districts of Europe is said to be the best suited to its manufacture, through its possessing a greater amount of gluten than anj- other sort of grain. The wheat, after being thoroughly washed, is freed from the husks, and ground in water-mills ; when hot, water is added, till it is of the consistency of stiff dough. Five different qualities of flour are obtained by five separate sittings, the last giving the finest and most delicate that can be made. The dough is kneaded by means of a wooden pole, attached to a post fixed in the ground, and worked up and down as a lever, under one end of which the paste is placed. Or the kneading may be accomplished by the less agreeable process of piling up the dough and treading it out with tho feet, after which it is rolled with a "rolling- pin. In making the dough into tubes and ribbons, a hollow cylindrical cast-iron vessel is used, having the bottom perforated with holes or slits. This is filled with the paste. Then a piece of wood or a heavy iron plate is brought down upon it by means of a screw, and in this manner the paste is forced through the