( 186) DUO DOIT turhot, with lobstor, anchovy, or Bhrimp sauco, and plain incited Inittor. Kervo on ii napkin THE DOBT. neatly rolled round the edge. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to size, after the water boils. Dough. Nuts, American.—Into a pound of Horn- rub a piece of butter the size of an egg. Add a little pounded allspice, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Mix a table-spoonful of yeast with four eggs, and a little lukewarm milk. Work all well together, and put the mix- ture in a warm place to rise. Then roll it out about half an inch thick, cut into pretty shapes, and fry in boiling oil or lard until the nuts are a golden brown. Drain on a moistened sieve, strew sifted sugar over the nuts, and keep them in a dry place. Time to fry, five to ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Dough Nuts, American (and Nor- wegian).—Rub fom- ounces of butter into three pounds of fine flour; add one pound of sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a whole nutmeg, grated. Whisk four eggs, and mix them gradually with a gill of yeast and as much of a pint of new milk, flavoured with rose- water, as will make the flour into a soft dough. Cover It up warm to rise, and when sufiBoiently risen make it into balls, or into any form Hked, and drop them into a saucepan of boiling lard. When of a fine brown colour they are done, and should be laid before the fire on a sieve to dry. It sometimes happens that the nuts are insuffi- ciently cooked in the middle. To insure their being done thoroughly, drop them into the lard as soon as it boils. Time to boil, five or six minutes. Probable cost for the above ingre- dients, 28. 6d. to 3s. Dover Biscuits.—Beat six ounces of fresh butter into a cream, and stir into it six ounces of fine sugar. Beat two eggs to a froth; add a table-spoonful of nutmeg. Mix the eggs and butter together, and blend with them three- quarters of a pound of fine flour. Roll out the paste thin, and cut into small cakes. Time to bake, twelve to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for two dozen or more cakes. Dowlet Pie.—To three pounds of roast or boiled veal, minced, add half a pound of beef fiuot, and, when shred very fine, three or four well-beaten eggs, i>art of u small nutmeg, gi-ated, and a little allspice. Lay some of the mixture in a pie-dish, and tlirow well-stoned laisins on the top; then cover the raisins with more of the mixture, and sprinkle raisins till half a pound hiis been used up. Bake in a quick oven, and when done pour into the pie some sweet sauce, or serve witli wine kjiuco in a tureen. Time, lialf to three-quarters of an hour. Ktiflicient for six or seven persons. Dresden Patties.—For these patties, take off the outer crust of a stale Frcjnch roll, divide the crumb into slices, and then into rounds, with a tin cutter. Make the slices sutticiently thick to allow of the middle being scooped out. Dip the croustades into milk, drain well, smear with egg, and cover with fine bread- raspings, fried in butter to a pale brown colour. They are then filled with a compote of fruit, or they may be made savoury and filled with minced fowl, ham, and tongue, or with oysters, mushrooms, &c. Time to fiy, five minutes. Dripping, Clarified.—Make the dripping hot and pour it into boiling water. Stir it for three or four minutes, then leave it to get cold. The impurities will aU sink to the bottom, and may be easily removed with a knife. Dripping may be used many times for frying purposes, if it is clarified every time. Every little piece of fat should be melted dovm, and the dripping clarified. It may then be used either for frj'- ing or for household pastry. In making pastry good beef dripping is very much to be preferred to cheap common butter. Dripping, Potted.—Take six poimds of beef dripping; boil it in good soft water, and strain into a pan till cold; remove it from the pan, and clear off the gravy that adheres to the under part; repeat the boiling process several times, and take away the sediment. "V^lien quite clear, and free from gra^y, put the dripping into a saucepan with six bay-leaves, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, a few cloves, and half a pound of salt. Let it melt at a very gentle heat, and when it is hot enough to pour strain it through a sieve into the pot, and cover it over to get cold. Or it may be melted without any addition, except the salt, and, if required for pastry, this latter mode is the preferable. Dryburgh. Butter Cakes.—Rub well into one pound of the best flour eight oimces of fresh butter, and make it into a paste •«'ith half a pint of milk and a well-beaten egg, add- ing four ounces of powdered sugar. When the ingredients are sufficiently amalgamated, and the paste wrought into a proper consistency, roll out thin, cut into circles, dust \rith fine sugar, and bake on a btittered tin, in a quick oven, for about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Duchess Loaves.—Duchess loaves are very similar to petits choii^, but larger and differently shaped. They are made as follows : Put two ounces of sugar and four ounces of butter into a saucepan, with half a pint of milk , or cold water Let them boil, then draw the