MUT MUT ( 460 ) Timo, ton poundsrtwo hours and a half, or less if likod underdone. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Sauce for {see Queen Mary's Sauce for Koast Mutton). Mutton Sausages.—A delicate sausage is made from the remains of an underdone leg of roast mutton, or any other joint from which slices can bo got without fat. Chop a pound of loan underdone mutton and six ounces of hoof suet separately ; then mix them with f our ounces of finoly-proparod bread-crumbs, and put them into a basin with a pint of oysters bearded and chopped, two anchovies, a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, and powdered mace, and some pepper and salt. Moisten with two beaten eggs, and a little of the anchoN-y liquor if re- quu'ed. Make into a firm paste, and roll into sausages or make into balls, but the sausago- mcat will keep for a few d^ys. Time to fry, seven or eight minutes. Mutton, Scrag (a la Menehould).—Soak in warm water and wash the undivided scrag end of the neck of mutton ; drain, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and hang it for a couple of days. Slice three or four young carrots, and divide into quarters three middle-sized onions, line the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, lay in the scrag, with slices of bacon over the top, and the vegetables which have been sliced, with a couple of bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and basil, a small bunch of parsley, thirty white peppercorns, and as much liquor from the boiling of a knuckle or scrag of veal as will cover the meat well. Prepare a cupful of bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and when the meat is tender drain it from the gravy in which it has stewed; cover with the seasoned crumbs, and brown in a quick oven, or with a salamander. Time, four hours to stew. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton, Shoulder of (a recipe by a Scotch lady).—Hang a shovdder of mutton until tender, and, when ready for cooking, put it before a bright clear fire for three-quarters of an hour, or, according to the weight of the shoulder, until half done. Eemove the joint from the fire, and, as expeditiously as possible, score it on both sides. Put it again to the fire, first emptying the dripping-pan of the fat, and replacing it with the gravy that may have flowed while scoring, and enough of meat-gravy to make half a pint; add the same quantity of port wine, and a spoonful each of walnut and mushroom ketchup, with two fine anchovies boned and pulped, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Allow the usual time for roasting, but baste copiously with the above sauce. Rub the dish, when made hot, on which the mutton is to be served with cut garlic or shallot, and pour the sauce from the pan over it. Mutton, Shoxilder of, Broiled.—Half roast, or stew, or parboil, a joint of six pounds, then cut it once or twice on both sides to the bone, season the cuts and outside with cayenne, and finish dressing on a gridiron over a brisk fire; take the gravy, not the fat, add to it some pickled muslirooms, large and small, and strew over, and garnish the broil when served. It is needless to remind tho reader that dishes and plates should all be made very hot, especially for mutton. Time to ])arboil, one hour ; to grill, twenty minutes. Average cost, lOid. per pound. Sufliciont for five or six persons. Mutton, Shoulder of, Roasted.—This joint should be ^s■ell liuug; a ioilnight in cold dry weather will not be found too much if for a roast. Rub one of six or seven pounds Hghtly with salt, and put it before a bright clear fire ; baste continually until done, keeping it at eighteen inches distance from the fire to let the heat penetrate the middle. When within twenty minutes of being ready for serving, tho joint should be drawn nearer to the fire, dredged slightly with flour, and basted to give it a frothed appearance. Have ready some boiled Spanish onions, glaze them, put the mutton on a hot dish, make a gravy from the drippings, garnish with the glazed onions, and send onion sauce to table in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, 9id. ta lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton, Shoulder of. Stewed.—Hang this joint as long as possible in dr>' cold weather ; for stewing three days will be sufficient. Procure one, not too large or too fat, pare off what is unnecessary of the fat, and use it for a common crust; take out the bladebone, and fill the space with a forcemeat as for vealj sew up the opening, shoe an onion, a carrot, a turnip, and a stick of celery, put them with tho mutton into a stewpan, pour in good stock enough to cover, and add a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, two cloves, a dessert-spoonful of salt, half the quantity of white pepper, and a large pinch of cayenne. Let the whole simmer gently, with the lid closed, for four hours, strain, and thicken the gravy with an ounce of butter i-olled in flour ; put the meat on a hot dish with a little of the gravy, add to the remainder half the juice of a lemon and a glassful of white wine. Serve with French beans boiled in the usual way, drained and warmed up in good gravy, or with spinach round the dish; or, ha-\dng taken out the blade- bone, sprinkle the under side with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and shred shallot, but use ovlj enough of the latter to give it a sHght flavour. Roll the meat into a nice shape, and stew gently for three hours in a braising-pan with a pint of good stock, add salt, a very small pinch of cayenne, a few peppercorns, and a: bunch of sweet herbs, and, an hour before serving, a couple of carrots cut into strips, the same of turnips in halves, and four middle-sized onions; poiu- in a glass of white wine, and when ready serve the vegetables round the meat, and tho gravy over it. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Mutton, ShoTilder of. Stuffed. — Having boned a shoulder of mutton, and trimmed off the excess of fat, stretch it out on a pasteboard, and sprinkle over it pepper and salt. Make a .«iausage-mcat with equal quantities of lean pork and bacon (a pound m all), seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little