cassell's cookery. moment, and then pour it quickly into the butter, which, as I have said, must Ije frothing in the frying-pan. Take a hii-ge spoon and stii- it all up very quickly, scraping the bottom of tha frying-pan all the time, to prevent the omelet from sticking and bui-ning. As soon as it begins to set, take the frying-pan a little from the fire, and work the omelet with a spoon into a half-moon shape. When it is nearly set, take the frying-pan off the fire, and hold it in front of the fire, resting the edge of the pan on the bottom bar, and slanting the pan as much as possible; but, of course, care must be taken ' not to let the omelet slip right into the fire. Hold the frying-pan like thiB for a couple of minutes or so. This causes the omelet to rise, and it thereby becomes lighter. In large French kitchens, where there is no open fire, they hold a red-hot salamander over the omelet, which has the same efiect. A red-hot shovel does very well if you have a shut-up range. A sweet omelet is made in exactly the same manner, only of course there is no pepper, onion, or parsley, and only a tiny pinch of salt. Add, however, instead, a tea-spoonful of very finely powdered sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of vanille. This last is an immense improvement. When an " omelette au confiture " is required, the omelet must be kept in the frying-pan round, a spoonful of the jam placed on the one half, and then the other half lifted over on to it with a slice, or something broad, so as not to break it. An omelet must be served directly it is cooked; so if you want a good one, always take care not to begin to prepare it until just before it is required to be eaten, as it only takes two or thi*ee minut-es to make. No great harm is done even if you have to wait for it. As I said before, the secret of a light omelet is frothing the eggs. Why ? Because by so doing you mix the omelet up with an infinite number of tiny air-bubbles. Now we all know that heat expands everything, air included. These little bubbles, therefore—some, perhaps, the size of a pin's point—become under the action of heat the size, possibly, of a pin's head ; and as long as the omelet remains hot it is light -—puffed out, in fact, by air-bubbles expanded by heat. If you let the omelet get partially cold, it in consequence gets heavy. This point is, however, more strongly exemplified in the case of souffles. A cheese souffle is a very nice thing to finish dinner with, and if you know how to make one, is a capital extra dish in case some one comes in to dinner quite unexpectedly. I will try and teli you how to make it, and also, as far as I can, explain why. I will describe how to make as small a one as possible, as it is easy to increase the size, and experiments are always most economical on a small scale. Take a round tin about four inches in diameter, and quite three deep. Have a piece of ornamented white paper ready to pop round the tin quickly. Next take two table-spoonfuls of finely-grated cheese—of course a dry cheese gi-ates the best—and place it in a basin with a quarter of a pint (half a tumbler) of milk, about half a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of that quantity of pepper. Next break a couple of eggs, keeping the whites separate from the yolks in a small basin. Mix up the yolks with the milk, cheese, &c., thoroughly. Now take these two whites, and wliip them up into a stiff froth, and then mix in quickly the milk, &c. Butter the inside of the tin, and put it in the oven till it is very hot. Pour the mixture into the tin quickly, and place it in the oven. The oven must be of moderate heat, other^vise the souffle gets burnt outside and remains pappy in the middle. The average time of baking is about twenty-five minutes to half-an-hour. The souffle, which when placed in the tin did not half fill it, will rise up a couple of inches above the tin. EveiTthing, however,