CAL CAL in tho middle of the dish, and the gi-avy poured round. Two foot will bo Hufficiont for thi-oo or four persons. Calfs Foot Stewed with Herbs.— AV'ash a calf's foot. Wlion it is thorouglily clean, boil it in a quart of water until the flosh can bo easily taken from the bono, llomovo the bones, and cut tho llesh into small, evenly- shaped pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a largo ogg into a stowpan, let it molt, then put into it tho pieces of meat, having previously salted, peppered, and rolled them in flour. Lot them remain in tho boiling butter until they are nicely browned ; put with them two small onions, a dozen mushrooms chopped finely, and a bunch of savoury herbs; mix tlie stock in by degrees, and let them simmer gently for haK an hour or so ; then add tho juico of a lemon, and three well-beaten eggs. Do not allow the liquid to boil again after the eggs have been added. If the sauce is not sufficiently thick, a little more flour may be mixed in before the eggs and vinegar. If any of the liquor in which the meat was boiled is not required for the sauce, it will be found very useful for gravies, ■&C. CalTs Foot Stock, Cheap Substi- tutes for.—Ox heels may be used instead of ealf's feet for stock. They should be bought before they are boiled at all. They are fre- quently offered for sale when they are partially dressed, and must be very carefully cleansed. They may be bought for 4d. or 5d. each, and as two calf's feet will produce a quart of stock, and two cow's heels three pints, it is a decided saving to use the latter. Ten shank bones of mutton, which maybe bought in some parts veiy <jheap, wni yield as much jelly as a calf's foot. Calfs Foot Stock for JeUy.—Take four calf's feet properly dressed and cleansed. Put a gallon of water into a saucepan with the feet, and let them boil very gently but con- tinuously until the liqmd is reduced to half. ■Strain it, and let it stand until stiff. Then remove every particle of fat from it, pouring a cupful of boiling water over it, and placing a piece of blotting paper on the top after you have taken it off to insure its being quite free from grease. Eemember to leave the sediment behind when you use the stock. Time to boil the feet, six or seven houi-s. Calf S Head.—It is better to order a calf's head a day or two before wanted, especially if only half a one is required, and a half is auffi Client for a dinner for a small family. The heads are sold by butchers either sldnned or nnskinned, and if they are sent home unskinned ^eat care must be taken to scrape the hair off as closely as possible. To do this the head must bo put into water which is just upon the point of boiling, and remain there for a few minutes after it does so, then taken out and the hair scraped off with a blunt knife, the head divided, and tho brains and tongue taken out. The head must bo most carefully washed. The first thing to do, on receiving a caK's head, is to remove tho brains, throw them into cold water for an hour, drain them, and boil them in salt and water for a quarter of an hour, and put them on one side. Put the head into cold water and wash it well, clearing the cavities inside with the fingers, ky it in fresh cold water, and leave it there to draw out the blood, &c. One of the choice bits of a calf a licad lies deep in the socket of the eye. It is always best to cook a calfs head as soon as possible, and while it should bo thoioughlj cooked, it should not be overdone. It ought to be served in slices; and to secure tliis it should be bomid with a little broad tape. When it is to be served, lay it, cheek upwards, on the dish ac it cornea from the water, or brush it over with beaten egg, dust bread-crumbs over it, and brown it. The brains and tongue should bo sent to table with it on a separate dish; and a dish of liam ot bacon is considered by many persona an im- provement. Calf's head is usually garnished with sliced lemon. Probable cost, 5s. to 9n. Calf's Head (a la Poulette). — Take a dozen good-sized mushrooms, cut off the end of the stalks, and rub the tops with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, let it melt, arid put in the mushrooms. Shake them over a hot fire for a few minutes, turn them into a basin, and keep them covered imtil they are wanted for use. Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into nicely-shaped sUcos, and lay them on one side. Put a piece of butter the "size of an egg into a saucepan, let it melt, mix with it very smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour. Stir it imtil it is lightly browned; add to it very gradually, stirring all the time, a large breakfast-cupful of boiling stock, and a little pepper and cayenne. Let this boil up, add the mushrooms, and boU the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour. Put in the meat, and let it simmer till quite hot; draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, let it cool for two minutes, when the beaten yolks of two eggs may be mixed with it. Stir the preparation over the fire till it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil, and at the last squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Serve on a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, without the cold meat. Is. 3d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Calf's Head (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Take the remains of a cold calf's head, and cut it into neat slices, leaving out the bones, &c. Make pome Maitre d'Hotel sauce, consisting of half i pint of good melted butter, mixed with two dessert-spoonfuls of parsley boiled and chopped, the juice of a small lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Let this boil, then put in the pieces of calf's head, let them become quite heated, without boiling, and serve on a hot dish, gar- nished with sippets of toast. Calf's Head la Poulette).—As before, take the remains of a cold calf's head, and cut it into neat slices, leaving out the bones, &c. Make a sauce, as follows: Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and mix smoothly with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pint of stock or water, and a little salt and cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, draw the saucepan from the fire for a couple of minutes, and add, very gradually, the yolks of two eggs mixed with a cupful of