CHO CHO ( 135 ) great way to secure it. In using this article, mix the cliocoUite smootMy with the water or milk, and poui- it into the pot; put on the lid with the handle of the mill coming through it, and then A CHOCOLATE MILL. warm the chocolate gently, rubhing the handle briskly between the palms of the hands all the time the chocolate is on the fire. The prepara- tion must not be allowed to boil, or it will be oily. When the hd is taken off, the chocolate will be found to be in a fine state of froth. Probable cost, 5s. Chocolate Pudding.—Put an ounce of best chocolate grated, and as much powdered cinnamon as would stand on a threepenny piece into two table-spoonfuls of boiling water. Let the mixture stand by the side of the fire imtil dissolved, then mix with it a pint of boiling milk, and add four large lumps of sugar, and when it is cold, four eggs weU beaten. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish; and either steam or bake it for half an hour. It is more suitable to eat hot when steamed, and cold when baked. A little sifted sugar may be eaten with the pudding cold, and arrowroot sauce served with it hot. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chocolate Tarts.—Grate two ounces of the best French chocolate, and mix with it a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a heaped tea-spoonful of ground rice. IMix a pint of cream or new milk with four weU-beaten eggs, and add the custard gradually and smoothly to the chocolate powder. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, but be carefnl that the cream does not curdle. Line the inside of a tart-dish with good puff paste. Pour the cream, when cool, into it, and bake the tart in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. made Avith milk, 2s. made with cream. Sufficient for five or six persons. Chops, Broiled.—Mutton is the meat for chops, though lamb and pork also furnish ex- cellent ones. A variety of dishes may be made from them, and they may be served with all sorts of sauces and vegetables. They are often cut from the best end of the neck, and the fillet of the leg, but are best when taken fi-om the middle of the loin. They should bo cut not less than half an inch thick, and not over fat; if taken from the neck, the bones should be shortened. To broil chops trim them neatly, remove nearly aU the fat, which may be rendered and. made into good dripping, and pepper them slightly. Have a clear fire made of cinders. Make the gridiron hot, and rub it well with mutton suet. Put the chops upon it and place it slanting to prevent the fat dropping on the fii-e, and causing a smoke. If a blaze should arise, remove the gridiron for a moment, and strew a handful of salt over the fire. Turn the chops often till they are done, which wiU be in about eight minutes. Place them on a hot dish with a piece of butter about the size of a nut under each and send mushroom ketchup to table with them. French cooks pepper and salt them, and brush some clarified butter over them before broUing, and this tends to keep in the juices. If it can be done, they are better sent to table one at a ■ time, as they are broiled. Probable cost. Is. Id, per pound. Chops, Broiled (a la Maintcnon).— Cut and trim the chops as before. Beat the yolk of an egg, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of parsley, half a tea-spoonful of thyme, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cover the chops with this, then wrap each one in a piece of weU-buttered writing paper, and broil them as in the last recipe, turning them often. Serve with some good brown gravy. Time, about ten minutes. Allow one chop for each person. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Chops, Fried.—Prepare the chops as be- fore. Brush each chop with beaten egg, and cover them with finely-grated bread-crumbs. Put a good slice of butter into the frj'ing-pan, and when it is melted, place them in it. Turn i them two or three times, and when they are ; nearly ready, sprinkle salt and pepper over j them. Fry them over a clear fire not less than : ten or more than fifteen minutes. When they are taken up lay them for a moment or two on blottmg paper, to absorb the fat. Make some good melted butter, and stir into it, when i boning, two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ; pickled gherkins. Probable cost. Is. Id. per ; pound. One chop will be sufficient for each \ person. 1 Chops, Stewed with Onion.—Take , half a dozen nice loin chops, trim them neatly, i remove nearly all the fat, and broil them for two minutes on each side, then place them in I clean blotting paper. Cut two large Spanisb, onions into sUces, and put them into a stewpan with half a tea-spoonful of salt, and four ounces of fresh butter. Place the chops upon them, and cover the saucepan closely, and stew all gently tiU the onions are reduced to pulp. Before dishing, pour a tea-spoonful of chJli vinegar upon the dish. Steak may be cooked in this way as well as chops. Time to broil the chop, four minutes; to stew them with the onions untU the latter are reduced to pulp, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. AUow one chop for each person. Choux.—Put four ounces of butter into half a pint of boiling water, with two table- spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugai-, and a salt-spoon- ful of minced lemon-rind. Let the butter melt,