CAP ( 104 ) CAN draw them to tho side of tho firo, or the pastry- will bo Hullicioiitly browned before it ifl cooked thi-ough. Drain thoni well by laying a i)ioce of blotting paper on a dish before tho fire, and placing them on it for a minute or two. Ai-- range them in a pile on a napkin. They may be made with any sort of jam, or with fresh fruit. Time to fry, ton minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient, one pound of puff paste for a large dish. Canterbury Puddings. — Melt two ounces of butter, then stir into it gradually two well-beaten eggs. Add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, and a little lemon-rind. At the last moment stir in a pinch of baking powder. Half fill buttered cups with the batter, and bake in a well-heated oven. Serve on a dish with wine sauce poured round. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Capers.—The bottle in which capers are kept should never be left without tho cork. They should also be kept covered with the liquor, or they will spoil, and on this accoimt it is better to use a spoonful of white vinegar, in- stead of the liquor, in making sauce. The flavour cannot be fully extracted unless the capers are bruised. Probable cost, Is. per pint bottle. Caper Sauce, a Substitute for.— Pickled gherkins, pickled nasturtium pods, French beans, or green peas, cut small like capers, may be used as a substitute for them. The nas- turtium pods are by many persons considered preferable. When none of these are at hand, parsley may be boiled slowly to take away its greenness, and cut up into pieces, not chopped small. Proceed in the same way as with capers. Time, one or two minutes to simmer. Probable cost, the same as for capers; parsley will be cheaper. Sufficient, a pint of sauce for a leg of mutton. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton.— Take about half a pint of good melted butter, and stir into it one table-spoonful and a half of chopped capers and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire, simmering it very gently for about a minute. Serve in a sauce tureen. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for three or four persons. Caper Sauce for rish. — Stir three dessert-spoonfuls of chopped capers and one dessert-spoonful of vinegar into half a pint of melted butter; put it on a gentle fire, and when the sauce is simmering, stir in a dessert-spoon- ful either of the essence of anchovy, mushroom or walnut ketchup, and season rather, highly with cayenne. Time, two minutes to simmer. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two pounds of fish. Capillaire. — Put two ounces of freshly- gathered maidenhair [Adiantiim capillus ve- neris) into a jug, and pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it. Let it stand on the hob or hearth, to infuse like tea, for some hours; then strain it, and put it into a clear syrup made by boiling together three pounds of sugar and three pints of water ; add two table-spoon- fuls of orange-flower water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Run the liquid tlirough a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and when cold bottle it for use. Cork it secuiely, and seal th( corks. Time to infuse tho lorn, ton hours. Probable cost, 8d. per quart, exclusive of the maidenhair. It niakos an excellent and agieo- ablo fiavoui-ing for all kinds of beverages. Capillaire (anotherway).—Put two ounces of American capiUairo into a pmt of boiling water, add a pound of sugar, and wlien it lias stood some time, tho white of an egg, and boil it to a thick syrup. Strain it, and when it is cold, flavour it with a table-spoonful of oi-ange- flower water. Bottle it and seal the corks. Time to infuse, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5d. per pint, exclusive of tho capillaire. Capillaire, Imitation.—Mix wella quart of water with five pounds of sugar, two eggs beaten, and the shells put in. Boil all together, and skim the liquid thoroughly ; strain thi-ough a jelly-bag, and flavour it with two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Time to boU, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28.4d. for this quantity. Capillaire in Punch.—A small bottle of capillaire is a great improvement to a bowl of punch ; or a pleasant summer drink may be made by putting a wine-glassful into a tumbler, ■with the juice of half a lemon, and filling up with water. Capon, Th.e.—Capons, to be tender, ought to be killed a day or two before they are di-essed, and in cold weather, more than that time may be allowed to intervene between killing and cooking. When the feathers can be easily pulled out, the bird is ready for the spit. They should be managed precisely in the same way as turkeys, and the same sauces may be sent to table with them. They may be had all the year, but are cheapest about October and November, and largest at Christmas. Capon, Boiled.—Draw and truss a fine capon, and tie a sheet of oiled or buttered paper over it. Lay it in a saucepan, with sufficient water or stock to cover it, and put with it an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. Stew it gently, and when done, take it up, and lay roimd the dish on which it is served four or five small cauliflowers. Pour a little bechamel over it. Time to boU, one hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Roast.—Truss a capon firmly for roasting. Fasten some oUed paper over the breast, and roast it before a good fire. T\'lien sufficiently cooked, take it down, place it on a hot dish with watercresses round it. Send some good gravy to table with it. Time, to roast, one hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Capon, Roasted with Cream Stuf- fing.—Truss a capon for roasting. Boil the liver, and mince it as finely as possible. Pour a little cream over a cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for half an hour. Shred fijaely four ounces of suet, a tea-spoonful