I FIS (210) be brushed over with egg, and coated with a mixture of broad-crumbs and Parmesan cheese, or bread-crumbs alone, and then fried in hot fat. Garnish with parsley and any green pickle. Time, fry till brown. Probable cost, 6d., oxclusive of nsh. Pish Curry.—Cut cod, haddock, sole, or salmon into neat lillots. If salted for a few hours the fish will bo better and lirmor. Drain, di-y, and fry tbe iillots for fivo minutes. Fry also in butter two onions and a shallot cut small. When tender rub them through a sieve, mix with the pulp a table-spoouful of curry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and as nmch stock as is required. BoU the sauce till thick, put in the iish, and simmer it till done enough. When ready to servo, throw in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and send to table with rice as an accompaniment. Probable cost, exclusive of fish, 6d. Fish Cutlets.—Cutlets may be cut from almost any white lish ; they may be cooked or raw. Put a quantity of chopped herbs, a bit of shallot, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir in a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and as soon as the butter is melted remove from the fire to cool. Lay the seasoning over the cutlets thickly, and powder them well with ■ fine bread-crumbs. They maybe cooked before the fire, or in an oven on buttered pans. Have ready some green vegetables stewed in good broth; silver button-onions or anything that is in season may be used. Put the vegetables in the centre of the dish, and arrange the cutlets round. Time to stew vegetables, about a quarter of an horn-. Probable cost, 6d., exclu- sive of fish. Fish (en Matelote).—Fish may be served en matelote either whole or divided. Trout, pike, carp, tench, eels, &c., are good cooked in this way. Put an ounce of butter into a stew- pan, and brown a dozen button-onions that have been scalded. Put in the fish, and add a half pint of gravy or stock, a glass of red wine, pepper, salt, allspice, a bay-leaf, and a carrot and turnip cut into slices. Take out the fish, thicken the gravy with fiour and butter, and add mushrooms, the button-onions nicely browned, some oysters bearded and scalded, and small fish quenelles. Season to taste with anchovy, cayenne, and lemon-juice, and pom* the gravy boiling hot over the fish. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Fish, Essence of.—This ismade by boiling fresh fish ui stock with herbs and vegetables till its flavour is extracted. Fish gravy for making fish sauces and moistening fish patties may be made by stewing the bones, fins, and trimmings of fish which has been filleted before being cooked, in as much water as will cover it. The stock may be flavoured with vegetables and herbs, and should be freed from fat before being used. Fish, Fat for Frying.—Butter and lard are the materials mostly in use for this mode of cooking in England; oil and clarified ukimmings are also used. On the continent, where nothing else than oil is used, fried diahes are more deHcato, and in appearance superior to those cooked with any other fatty substance. Butter, lard, di-ipping, or oil may be nand for the same pui-pose two or three times, if care be taken not to bum it during the frying, and carefully to strain it into clean pots or iars {see Fry, To.) Fish, Forcemeat for.—Chop the re- mains of any shell-fish—lobster, crab, &c.— with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, add a little minced parsley, and the same quantity of bread-crumbs as of fish. Pound all in a mortar, with two ounces of butter, a tea-spoon- ful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and a flavouring of nutmeg. Stuff any white fish with this forcemeat, mixing it well with the beaten yolk of an egg. (See also Oysters, Force- meat of.) Fish Fricandelles.—Pour milk or wine on the crumb of a French roll, enough to soak it. Cut one pound of cooked or raw fish with- out skin or bone, and a couple of anchovies, into small bits. Season with mace, cayenne, and nutmeg. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the roll, and then add the fish. Mix a little cream, and warm it carefully. Have ready a buttered mould, fill it with the fish, and cover with bread-crumbs. Make hot in the oven, and brown with a salamander or red-hot shovel. Fish, Fried.—Fish to be nicely fried should be wiped very dry, and floured before bemg put into the pan of boiling fat. Next to I oil, clarified dripping is the best. Shake the pan gently vmtLl hot through. If you want the fish to look very nice, dip it into egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs before frj-ing. Drain before the fire, and dish on a hot nap- kin. The time required for this mode of cook- ing will vary according to the size, quality and thickness of the fish. (See Fry, To.) Fish, Fried (Jewish fashion). The Jews, like our continental neighbours, use oil foi- frying. Soyer gives the following excellent recipe for cooking fish:—Lay one or more poimds of halibut in a dish, with salt over the top, and water not to cover the fish. Let it stay one hour for the salt to penetrate. Drain and drj'' it; then cut out the bone, and take off the fins. Divide the pieces into slices half an inch thick. Put a quarter of a pound of oil, butter, lard, or dripping into a frjdng-pan. Dip the fish into a batter, and fry- till the pieces are of a nice colour, and all sides alike. When quite done, take them out with a slice, drain, and serve with any sauce liked. All fish, especially those containing oil, are improved by this method—the oil is absorbed by the batter. Fish, Grilled.—Small thin fish, or lai^e fish divided into slices or fillets are excellent when grilled. This method of cooking is par- ticularly suitable for fish to be served at break- fast. Slices of salmon, cod, or sturgeon, trout, red mullet, herrings fresh and dried, haddock, whiting, filleted sole or mackerel, the small soles called " shps," and the small plaice called " dabs" may all be grilled, and thus cooked will be tasty and well flavoure'^ The fish