NOB ( 457 ) NEU Neufchatel Pudding—Boat the yolks of four eggs briskly for thi-ee or four minutes, then put them into a saucepan, and with them the whites of two eggs, eight ounces of fresh butter, and four ounces of pounded and sifted sugjir. Stir gently over a slow fire for twenty minutes or more. Lino a pie-dish with good puff-paste. Spread on the bottom a layer of either orange marmalade, or apricot jam, pour the mixture on the top, and bake in a good even. Sift a little sugar over the pudding before serving. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for foui- persons. New College Puddings.—Shred a quar- ter of a pound of beef-suct very finely, mix with it four ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs, or, if preferred, powdered sweet biscuit, add a quarter of a pound of currants, a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and an ounce of finely-shred candied peel. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten them with three well-beaten eggs, add as much milk as will make them of the proper consistence, and fry them in spoonfuls, in a little hot butter, till they are brightly browned on both sides. Shake the pan frequently to prevent them burning, and turn them over when one side is sufficiently cooked. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and strew sifted sugar thickly over them before serving. Time, six or eight minutes to frj'. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. New England Pancakes.—Mix three table-spoonfuls of tine flour very smoothly with a little cold milk. Add gradually half a pint of cream, a small pinch of salt, the well-whisked yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, a hfeaped table-spoonful of sifted sugar, and two or three drops of lemon, ahnond, or any other flavoming. Let the batter stand for an hour before it is cooked, then fry it in pancakes as thin as possible. Strew a little sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon upon each pancake, and roll it round before putting it in the dish. Serve very hot. Time, five minutes to fry each pancake. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Newmarket Pudding.—Put a pint and a quarter of good milk into a saucepan, with three ounces of sugar, a bay-leaf, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a little piece of stick cinnamon. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Let the mUk cool, then mix vnth. it the well- whisked yolks of five and the whites of three fresh eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine sieve. Butter a pie-dish. Put a layer of thin bread and butter at the bottom, then a layer of currants and stoned-and-chopped raisms. Kepeat until the dish is nearly full. Pour the custard over, let the bread soak for an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. New York Plum Cake {see Plum Cake, New York). Nightcap.—Simmer half a pint of ale, and when on the point of boiling pour it out; grate half a quarter of a nutmeg into it, and add a P* tea-spoouful of moist sugar, and two table- spoonfuls of brandy. Drink the nightcap the last thing before getting into bed. Time, five minutes to heat the ale. Sufficient for one person. Nightcap, Bishop Oxford {see Bishop Oxford Nightcap). Nockerl.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream; mix smoothly with it two ounces of dried flour, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and the white of one; add a pinch of salt, and the eighth of a small nutmeg grated. Spread the mixture on a flat dish, and put it in a cool place for a couple of hours. A few minutes before it is wanted, put a little broth or milk into a saucepan, and let it boil. Take the mixture up in small quantities, form these into shape with a wet spoon, being careful to handle them as little as possible, and drop them into the boiling liquid. When done enough, drain them, grate a little Parmesan over them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, six or eight minutes to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Nonesuch Pudding.—Grate the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three ounces of loaf sugar; crush it to powder, and mix it with four ounces of dried flour. Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add gradually and smoothly the sugar and flour, two ounces of raisins, stoned and chopped small, and five eggs well-beaten. Mix thoroughly, and pour the pudding into a buttered mould; plunge it into boiling water, turn it out before serving, and send some good custard or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nonpareil Liqueur. — Take a fully- ripe pine-apple, and pare ofl' the outside skm; bruise it in a mortar; add one dozen and a half of sharp ripe white magniim bonum plums, and one dozen of ripe jargonelle pears quartered; then to every four pounds of fruit add six pounds of loaf-sugar and three pints of water. Put the whole into a preserving- pan, and boil for three-quarters of an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. Then put it into a can or jar until cold; add three quarts of gooseberry-brandy, and let it stand for six weeks ; pass it through the jelly-bag. This i» a very fine liqueur. Norfolk Biffins, Dried.-The Norfolk beefing, or biffin, is the name given to a hard, sweet apple well knowTi in Norfolk, which is remarkable for being rosy coloured both inside and out, and which is prepared by being baked gently in the oven, flattened into the form of a round cake, and so preserved. Biffins may afterwards be stewed, like Normandy pippins, or made into pies. They may be purchased ready dried, but if prepared at home should be baked very gently, taken out every now and then to cool, slightly flattened, and then put into the oven again. If great care is not taken they will burst, and so be spoilt. Probable cost, uncooked, 28. per poimd. Norfolk Dumplings.—Beat two eggs thoroughly. Add a cupful of milk, a pinch of