LEV ( 370 ) LET Lettuce Stalks, To Preserve (an imitation of preserved ginger).—Take the stalks of large lettuces, peel otf the outer skin, cut them into pieces about two inches long, wasli them tlioroughly, and weigh them; then leave them to soak in cold water. Ascei-tain how much water will be required to cover the lettuce-stalks entii-ely, and boil this quantity with a pound of sugar and an ounce and a half of whole ginger to every pound of stalks. The ginger should be soaked in hot water and sliced before being added to the sugar. When it has boiled a quarter of an hoiu", take out the ginger, drain the water from the lettuce-stalks, pom- the syrup over them instead, and leave them until the next day. The syrup must be boiled with the ginger for a quarter of an hour. every day for five days, and poured over the lettuce. The strained juice of one or two lemons may be added at the last boiling. "Cover the pre- serve in the usual way, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Lettuce, Stewed.—Take fom- good-sized lettuces, trim away the outer leaves and the bitter stalks; wash the lettuces carefully, and boil them in plenty of salted water until they are tender. Lift them into a colander, and squeeze the water from them ; chop them slightly, and put them into a clean saucepan •with a little pepper and salt and a small piece of butter. Dredge a little fioui" on them, pour over them three table-spoonfuls of good gi'avy, and simmer gentlj' for a quarter of an hour, stuTing all the time. Squeeze a dessert-spoon- ful of -vinegar or lemon-juice upon them, and sei-ve as hot as possible, with fried sippets round the dish. Time, altogether, three-quar- ters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lettuce, Stewed (another way).—Take fom- good-sized cabbage lettuces, wash them carefully, trim off the outer leaves and the stalks, and put them into boiling water for ten minutes. Drain well, and let them get quite cold, then cut them into halves, sprinkle a pinch of salt o^-er each half, tie them to- gether again, place them in a stewpan, cover them with good stock, and put with them a piece of beef-diipping the size of a large egg, a bunch of parsley, a little piece of thyme, and an onion with a clove stuck in it. Cover closely, and simmer very gently for two hours. At the end of that time take out the lettuces, drain them, remove the strings, fold the leaves round neatly, and place them in a circle on a hot dish, with a piece of fried bread between each. Pour over them half a pint of household gravy (see Household Gravy). Serve imme- diately. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lettuce Stewed with Green Peas. —Take two good-sized cabbage lettuces. Wash them carefully, remove the stalks and the outer and decayed leaves, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over them, and let them lie in cold water for a couple of hours. Drain them, cut thnm into sHce.=», and put them into a saucepan, with a quart of young and freshly-shelled green peas, a piece of butter the size of an egg rolled thickly I in flour, half a quarter of a pint of good stock, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded sugar. Cover closely, and simmer gently until the pea.s are soft. Time, half an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lettuce, Stuffed.—Wash four or five large lettuces. Boil them in j)lenty of salted water for fifteen minutes. Throw them at once into cold water, and afterwards let them drain. Open them, fiU them with good veal forcemeat, tie the ends secm-ely, and ijut them into a stewpan with as much good gra^y as will cover them, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Sim- mer gently for another fifteen minutes, remove the strings, place them on a hot dish, and pour the gravy round them. If preferred, the lettuces may be prepared as above, and then put into a braising-pan, with thin slices of bacon above and under them. A carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little good gravy may then be added, and the lettuces simmered gently for an hour and a half. A glassful of sherry may be added to the gravy before it is served. Probable cost of the lettuces. Id. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Leveret, Braised.—Truss the leveret like a harfe, and fill it with a forcemeat made as follows:—Grate very finely two ounces of stale crumb of bread, season with a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pounded sugar, half a salt-spoonfiil of pepper, half a salt-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and haK a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg; add a shallot, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of sweet herbs. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work them together with a dessert-spoonful of brandy and two ounces of clarified butter. Fill the leveret with the forcemeat, and sew it up securely. Place two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of the braising-pan. Fasten two or three more on the back of the leveret, and put it legs downwards into the pan. Pom- over it half a pint of good gravy, and add a smaU onion, finely minced, a sliced can-ot, a glassful of sherry, and two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchuj). Cover the pan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Take out the leveret. Press the vegetables through a sieve, put them back into the gi-avy, thicken it with two tea- spoonfuls of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, return both leveret and gravy to the stewpan, and simmer for about a quarter of an hour longer. Serve very hot. Probable cost of leveret, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leveret, Cold Roast, with Poivrade Sauce.—Divide the remains of a roast leveret into neat pieces, trim them, and put them aside until wanted. Cut an ounce of lean uncooked ham into dice, and take the same quantities of minced onion, carrot, and celerJ^ Put these ingredients into a stew- pan -with an ounce of butter, and fry them until they are lightly browned. Pour over them tlvree table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and about a