CHE CHE C 126 ) sugar, two or throo drops of the osBoueo of vunilla, a broakfast-cupful of milk, and six woll- beaten oggs. Stir these well together, thou pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, place a i^ioco of buttered writing paper over the top, and steam for an hour and a half, or, if profoiTod, bake in a good oven. Serve with wine sauco. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Chestnut Sauce, Brown.—Prepare the chestnuts as in the following recipe, but instead of adding cream or milk to the paste, mix them with a little good brown gravy, and season the sauce rather highly. Time to roast the chest- nuts accordmg to the quality. Probable cost, 2d or 3d. per pmt. Sufficient for one roast fowl. Chestnut Sauce, White—Roast a dozen chestnuts until quite tender, then remove the brown rind and the skin under it, and put them into a mortar with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Pound these together to a smooth paste, which must be put into a sauce- pan, and mixed with a breakfast-cupful of milk or cream; stir the liquid till it boils. This sauce is excellent for boiled fowls. Time to roast the chestnuts, varying with the quality. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint, if made with milk. Sufficient for one fowl. Chestnut Soup.—Take off the outer rind from fifty chestnuts, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. Place them on the fire, and when, the water is just upon the point of boiling, take them out and remove the under skin. Stew them in sufficient stock to cover them until quite tender; put them in a mor- tar, and pound them to a paste, reserving a dozen to be placed whole in the soup just before it is dished. Pound with the paste two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix with it very gradually the stock in which the chestnuts were boiled, if its sweetness is not objected to, allowing a quart of the mixture and a pint of mUk to every quart of stock. Boil all together once more, with the chestnuts which were reserved, and if the soup is too thick, add a little more stock. Be- fore serving, place some fried sippets in the tureen. The stock may be either made from meat or from vegetables alone. Time, two and a half hom-s. Sufficient for eight or nine per- sons. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, lOd. per quart. Chestnuts, Compote of.—Take thirty large chestnuts, peel off the outer brown skin, and put them into a saucepan of cold water. When the water is just on the point of boiling, take them off, remove the second sidn, and be careful not to break the chestnuts. Make a syrup with a breakfast-cupful of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar, adding a glass of sherry and the rind of half an orange or a lemon cut very thin. Put the chestnuts into this, and lot them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain the syrup over the chestnuts, and servo hot. Sift a little sugar over them. Time, about forty minutes. Probable cost, chestnuts. 3d. or 4d. per ],int. Tlio above quantity will nuiko a modomte-sized dish. Chestnuts, Pur6e of.—Take fifty We cheHtnutH—those uro tlie best which have no division, and, wlion tlie skin is removed, are entire. Take oft the outer brown skin, and boil the chestnuts until the inner skin will (X)me off easily, wlien it also must be removed Having done tliis, put the chestnuts into a saucepan witli sufficient white stock to cover them, and boil them gently until they are quite soft, ^vhen they must be pressed, while hot tlu-ough a wire sieve. The pulp must then oo put into a stewpan, with a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a cupful of cream or new milk, half a cupful of the stock in which they were simmered, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar. Stir this over the fire until quite hot, when it may be placed in the middle of a dish of cutlets. Time, two hours. Probable cost of chestnuts, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chestnuts, Roasted for Dessert.— Cut a little piece of the outer shell off each chestnut; this is to prevent them bursting when hot. Bon them for about ten minutes; do not allow them to cool, but put them into a tin in the oven, or into a Dutch oven before the fire, and let them remain until they are quite soft. Fold them in a napkin, and serve quite hot. Salt should be eaten with them. Time to bake, about ten minutes. Probable cost of chestnuts, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient, one pint for foui or five persons. Chestnuts, Stewed (to be served as a vegetable).—Remove the outer rind from sound chestnuts, then fry them in a little butter, when the inner skin may easily be freed from them. Put them into a saucepan with some good stock, and boil them until they are tender but unbroken. The chestnuts should be removed from the gravj-- as soon as they are cooked, and served in a tureen, with a little white sauce poured over them. Time to boil the chestnuts, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pint. Sufficient, one quart for a tureenful. Chetney, or Chutnee Sauce.—This is an Indian preparation, and a dozen diEPerent recipes might "be given for it. It cannot how- ever be prepared in England to resemble ex- actly that which is made in the East, as, of course the fresh fruits requisite for it cannot be obtained. It may be bought'at the ItaUan warehouses; but, imtil we can be quite secure from adulteration, pickles and store sauces are better made at home. Some sort of acid fruit is indispensable for it. Mangoes are used in India, but here green gooseberries, tomatoes, and sour apples must be used. jPut into a marble mortar four ounces of salt, four ounces of raisins, stoned and minced very finely, throe ounces of onions, and three ounces of garlic, also finely minced, two ounces of mustard-seed well bruised, and half an ounce of cSiycnno pepper. Pound those well, then mix vnth thorn very gradually fourteen ounces of sour apples, weighed after they have hcen pared and cored, and boiled with one pint of strong bro\\'n vinegar and four oimces of sugar. Mix the