Ixv PRINCIPLES—COLOURING SWEETS. In all departments of cooking probably that one comprised under the general name of " sweets " gives the greatest range wherein the real artist can exercise his skill. We will not now enter into the unpractical subject of describing how to build those magnificent but useless temples of barley sugar, &c., that figure at wedding breakfasts and gi'eat suppei-s, but will enter into the far more practical details of the frenei-al principles of making sweets look nice. As a rule, sweets are so ornamental in themselves that they do not require what may be generally called garnish. For instance, a jelly or a mould of blancmange is so pretty in itself that, provided it be bright, and put into either an equally bright cut glass dish or a silver one, it requires nothing beyond. Occasionally, indeed, little pieces of cut lemon may be placed round the edge of the dish; but this is not necessary, unless the dish be rather too larf^e for the mould, in which case the cut lemon will cause it to look less bare. The great secret of making jellies bright is taking pains in the clearing. Patience and cleanliness are indispensable; also bear in mind that jelly-bags should never be washed in soap and water. They shoiild, after being used, be simply rinsed and re-rinsed in boiling water and wrung out. One important point in making sweets look nice is to exercise some little taste in colouring. We will suppose, for instance, that there are two moulds in the house: the top of one is in the very common shape of a bunch of grapes, and the other the almost equally common shaj>e of a cucumber. Now it is at once obvious that the cucumber should be coloured green and the grapes red. Suppose, therefore, two moulds are being made of, say, blancmange. The green cucumber and the red grapes on the white base will form two very pi-etty dishes. Unless, however,, the tops are done cai-efully, the dish will present a very poor appearance—indeed, in all ornamenting, unless the decoration be done neatly, it had far better not be doner at all. Slovenly ornament in dishes corresponds to dirty finery in ordinary dress. We will suppose, therefore, the blancmange ready made and in a liquid state ready to be poured into the moulds. First pour just sufficient water into each mould to fill up the shape of the bunch of grapes and the cucumber. Pour this back figain into two glasses—claret glasses are best—and notice the exact quantity required for eacTi. Then fill the glass with the warm blancmange to exactly the same spot. Pour in the colouring matter, which will of course be cochineal for the grapes and/' spinach-juice for the cucumber. As only a few di^ops of cochineal are required, it will not matter adding such a small quantity, but whenever colouring matter is used' in which more than a few drops are required allowance should be made, or too much will be poured into the shape. When the exact quantity is coloured, pour it into tho shape, and let it set quite firm before any more is poured into the mould, If possible, set. the mould in some chopped ice, which will cause such a small quantity to set almosfc immediately. When the shape is quite set, add the remainder of the blancmange only be careful how you fill the mould. If, for instance, you simply pour the blanc- mange in, especially if it is lukewarm, the fresh quantity will partially re-dissolve what ha-s been set in the shape, and the white and red or white and green, as the case may be, will run into one another, and the effect will be quite spoilt. The best method of filling up the moulds is firet to wait till the blancmange is nearly cold—of course avoiding waiting too long, as it would then set in the basin. Then take a spoon, and pour the first part into the mould a spoonful at a time ; this will settle gently down over the coloured part, but will not mix. After the mould has been filled ^.y this means, say an inch deep, the whole may be gently poured in, taking care to pour very slowly, and to keep the vessel from which the blancmange is poured a« Iktro.—3