PHlKciPLES—ECOi^oiiY. vii ^ ' ~~ to be anything but agreeable. We must not, however, lose sight of the very soul of cookery, namely, economy; and, perhaps already, some young housekeeper may Jiave exclaimed, " Ah ! it is all very well; but we cannot afibrd to waste all this fat in just cooking one or two fish." "Wait a moment, however. Are you aware that the fat that would cook fish once will cook it twenty, thirty, even fifty times % Are you aware that if, after the fish is cooked, you pour the fat carefully into a basin containing boiling water, and stir it up and let it settle, the loose bread-crumbs, and the bad part of the fish, «kc., will sink to the bottom of the water, and the fat present a clean and wholesome appearance next morning when it has got cold % Let this fat, therefore, be carefully removed in a thick cake from the top of the basin into which it has been jjoured. Scrape ofi" carefully the rough pieces adjoining the watei', and place the fat by in a small basin by itself, and label it " for frying fish." I have no hesitation in saying that this fat will keep perfectly good in winter-time for two or three months. It is far cheaper in the long run to use two pounds of fat and cook things jorojoer/?/, and make the same fat do fifty times, than to use two ounces, cook the fish badly, and let the remains of the fat help to swell that bugbear of young house- keepers, the " cook's grease-pot." In conclusion, with regard to frying, be careful in removing the fish from the fat, that, before you place it on a dish, you let it rest a few minutes on a hot cloth, which will absorb the grease. At the same time, be equally careful that you do not place it in an oven to keep it warm. For fried fish to taste properly, but a very few minutes should elapse between the frying-pan and the dinner-table. A snow-white cloth at the bottom of the dish, some sprigs of bright green parsley placed alternately with a few slices of lemon, will give the dish a better appearance. I have, however, mentioned that I believe economy to be the soul of cookery. There is, perhaps, no word in the English language so little understood as this word economy. Just as political economists are too often considered by the vulgar to be men of hard hearts, so, too, in the art of cookery is economy often associated with meanness and stinginess. I have no hesitation in saying it will be invariably found that the better the cook, the more economy will be practised. There is more waste in the cottage than in the palace, for the simple reason that the cottage cook is entirely ignorant of an art which the chef has brought to perfection. What your so-called good plain cooks throw away, an ingenious French artiste will make into entrees. The French are a nation of cooks, and they cannot afibrd to dine without soup. Probably the contents of the dust-bins of England would more than fill the soup-tureens of France. I will give a very simple instance of what I term economy m the ordinary living of middle-class famiUes. We all know that grand old- . fashioned ^Aice de resistance, the British sirloin. Who has not seen it in its last , stages ^-the under-cut gone; the upper part dug out, on which some greedy mdmdual has evidently grasped after the under-done piece in the middle, but who, . at the same time, has entirely ignored the end. The kitchen more than follows suit to the dimng-room, and what is despised above is scorned below, and perhaps the real destmation of the end of the sirioin, which the young housekeeper fondly imagines has done for the servants' supper, has in reality been the dog-kennel, buppose, now, this end had been cut ofi" before the joint was roasted, and placed in a httle salt water, a nice, wholesome, and agreeable hot dinner would have been obtainable with the assistance of some boiled greens and potatoes. A little forethought m these matters constitutes real economy. Scraps of meat, fag ends of pieces of bacon, too often wasted, will, with a little judicious management, make a nice dish of rissoles^