( 296 ) HAM HAM put iiBido, fiB it IB uBoful for keeping in the moisturo. HAU QARNISHED. Ham, Glazing of.—Remove the rind, and, to do so, take hold of it at the thick end first. Trim it neatly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, and press a cloth over it to dry- it ; brush it over with a paste brush dipped in melted glaze. The colour should not be too dark. Two or three coats are required. To melt the glaze, put the jar which contains it into a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it until dissolved. As has been explained else- where {see Glaze), glaze is simply strong clear gravy boiled to the consistence of sjTup. Ham, Minced.—Take a pound of lean ham already dressed; mince it very finely, and mix with it a little cayenne and a blade of mace, powdered. Put it into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of cream and half a pint of good veal stock. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes until quite hot, but it must not boU, and serve on buttered toast. This is a good dish for breakfast or supper. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicient for two or three persons. Ham, Mutton JMutton Ham.) Ham, Mutton, Smoked. — Choose a large, fresh leg of mutton; have it cut into the shape of a ham, let it hang for two or three days, then rub it well with a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and an ounce of saltpetre, pounded and made wann before the fire. Be careful to cover the hole of the shank with- the mixtm-e. Put it in a deep dish, and rub it well with the pickle every day for a fortnight, then drain and dry it; put it under a heavy weight for one day, and hang it in smoke for a week or more. It may be either boiled or broiled. Mutton hams may now be bought at the provision shops ready cured for 7d. per pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Ham Omelet.—Mince one ounce of ham very finely, and, if uncooked, fry it for a minute or two in a little butter. Break four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and stir in with them the minced ham and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. Pour two ounces of butter or lard into the frying-pan; when hot, add the eggs, and stir quickly until the mixture sets. Shake the pan for a minute or two, to prevent buming, then double up the omelet, and when one side is brightly bnnvncd, turn it over on a hot dish, and serve. Time, five minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three persons. Ham or Bacon Omelet {»ee Bacon or Ham (Jmolet). Ham or Bacon, To Cure (see Bacon or Ham, To Cure). Ham or Sausage, and Eggs Bacon and EggH). Ham, Pickled.—Ab soon as the pig ifl cut up, rub the ham well with common salt, and let it remain for a day or two. For a ham weighing twelve or fourteen pounds, prepare a pickle consisting of a pound of salt, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and a pint and a half of vinegar. Rub the liam well, and turn it every day for a month. Drain and dry, hanging it in a cool place to dry. Then smoke for three weeks. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Pickle for (to keep for some months).—Put six quarts of water into a large saucepan, with four pounds of salt, three- quarters of a pound of sugar, and three ounces of saltpetre. BoU for twenty minutes. Skim thoroughly. When cold, pour it upon the ham. This pickle will answer equally well for tongues, beef, &c. The meat should be rubbed with salt, and drained for twenty-four hours before it is put in, and care should be taken that the liquid completely covers everypart. The pickle should be boiled up every two or three months. The time required will depend upon the nature and size of the meat, and the degree of saltness desired. A ham of fourteen pounds wiU take about three weeks; a tongue, ten days; a large piece of beef, a fortnight. Probable cost of the pickle, 6d. Ham, Potted.—Take one pound of lean ham and a quarter of a pound of fat, or, in place of this, two ounces of fresh butter. Pound the meat to a smooth paste, and flavour it with a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace and a pinch of cayenne. Press into a dish and bake through gently. When cold pour melted butter over. Keep in a cool place. It may be used for breakfast or luncheon, or for sandwiches. Anj' remains of cold ham may be potted. Dressed ham need not be baked. Lard or dripping should not be poured over the ham while hot. Ham, Roasted.—Soak the ham until it is softened, then put it into a deep pan, and pour over it a bottle of Madeira, or any light wine, and with it four carrots, four onions, and one dozen peppercorns. Turn it over every two or three hours, and leave it imtil the following day. Drain it, put it down before a cle^ar fire, and baste liberally with the liquid in wliich it was soaked. It will require four or five hours to roast, according to the size. Take it up, skin, and glaze it; boil up the gravy, «S:c., which should be sent to table in a turoen. It is a good plan to boil the ham for an hour before it is put into the marinade, when, of course, it will not need to be roasted quite so long. Probable cost, la. per pound. Ham Sandwiches.—Take slices of stale broad, two days old, and the eighth of an mch m thickness. Ciit thorn noatly with a sharji knifo, butter them, and cover one slice evenly with thin slicos of liam, out into ]uooes about an inch in length, and from which all the skin and