( 121 ) CHE CHE quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutos. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for three dozen cheesecakes {tiee Apple Cheesecakes). Cheesecakes, Bread.—Pour a breakfast- cupful of boiling niilk over eight ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and when they have soaked a little while, beat them up with thrae ounces of butter, melted. When quite cold, add three ounces of finely-sifted sugar, thi-ee ounces of currants, stoned and dried, and half a small nutmeg grated. Last of all add the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, beaten with a table-spoonful of brandy. Line the tartlet tins with a good light crust. Kather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for thi-eo dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Home-made.—Put four well-beaten eggs into a saucepan containing a pint of boiling milk, and let it remain on the fire until it curdles. Pour off the whey, and put the curd on an inverted sieve to drain. "SVhen it is quite drj', add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, six ounces of carefully-washed cur- rants, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, melted, two spoonfuls of rose-water or cream, and half a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon. Line the tartlet tins with good pufl^ paste, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a good oven. If a little vinegar or lemon- juice is mixed with jnilk, then placed on the fire, it will curdle. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Home-made (another way).—Mix three heaped table - spoonfuls of ground rice with six of good milk till the paste is quite smooth, then pour on it gradually, stir- ring all the time, a pint of boiling milk. Put it on the fire, and let it simmer till it thickens, then add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of ground cinnamon, a little grated lemon-rind, and three ounces of butter. Mix these well together, pour the mixture into a basin, and when cool, stir in four eggs beaten up with a table-spoonful of brandy. Line the tartlet tins with a good light crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Lemon.—Rub the peel of two large lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar. Whisk six eggs thoroughly, add the sugar pounded, and the juice of one lemon. Melt half a pound of butter in a saucepan, with five table-spoonfuls of cream, add the other in- gredients, and stir the mLxture over the fire until it begins to thicken. When cold, fill the tartlet tins, previously lined with good puff paste, a little more than half full, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Orange. — Proceed in the same way as for Lemon Cheesecakes, substituting orange-rind .and orange-juice for lemon-rind and lemon-juice. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Potato.—Grate the thin rind of two lemons, then pound them well with two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, and three ounces of potato which has been boiled until it has become floury. Stir a couple of ounces of clarified butter in with the mixture, and when smooth add the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Line the tartlet tins with a light crust, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty ; minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient for a dozen and a half cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Savoury.—Mix tho- roughly a pint of well-drained curd, three ounces of butter, and the yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs well beaten. Rub them through a coarse sieve, and add a quarter of 3 pound of grated Parmesan, and a little salt and pepper. If preferred, the curd may be omitted, and a little cream substituted. Of course, in that case, there would be no necessity to rub the mixture through a sieve. Line some tartlet tins with good crust, fill them three-parts with the mixture, and bake in a good oven for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient for four dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, Winter. — A curd for cheesecakes may be made by mixing as much grated biscuit with five eggs and a pint of cream as will make a light batter; sugar and flavouring should be added. To make the paste, mix a pound of flour, a table-spoonful of baking powder, and salt, with the whisked whites of two eggs. Divide half a pound of butter into three parts, roll out the pastry three times, and each time spread one part of the butter upon it, flour lightly, and make up as usual. Cheltenham Pudding. — Shred six ounces of suet very finely, add six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, two ounces of bread-crumbs, three ounces of raisins, three ounces of currants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. _ Mix these ingredients weU together, and stir into the mixture two weU-beaten eggs and sufficient new milk to make it into a stiff smooth batter. Pour it into a buttered dish and bake in a good oven. Turn it out when suffi- ciently cooked, and serve with brandied sauce. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, lOd. Cherokee, or Store Sauce.—Put a pint of the best vinegar into a large bottle with half an ounce of cayenne, two cloves of garlic finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of soy, and four of walnut ketchup. Let these soak for a month, then strain the liquid and put it into small bottles, which must be kept closely corked. Cherries, Candied.—Choose fine, sound, ripe chei-ries, take off the stalks, and wipe them with a soft cloth, then pour over them some syrup boiled ready to candy. Move them gently about, and, when cold, put them in a cool oven for half an hour to dry. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Half a