LAM LAM ( 353 ) Lamb, Bladebone of, Broiled — Tako a cold slioulder of lamb weighing trom two to three pounds, and score the flesh to the bones in squai-es about an inch apart. Make a powder by mixing together a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a tea- spoonful of dry mustard, liub this well into the flesh, then place the meat on a hot gridii-on, put it four or five inches above a clear fire, and broil it first on one side and then on the other until it is hot throughout. Place it on a hot dish, brush it over with clarified butter, squeeze the juice of a lemon upon it, and serve as hot as possible. If preferred, the meat can be egged and bread-crumbed before being broiled. Time to broil, about a quarter of an hour. The hot mixture should be rubbed into the joint some hours before it is boiled. Lamb, Boned, Quarter of.—Take the bone from a quarter of lamb, being careful to keep the knife close to the bone, spread over the meat half a pound of veal forcemeat, roll it round securely, skewer it firmly, and bind it with tape. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally, with good beef or mutton fat. Send mint sauce to table with it. Time to roast the lamb, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Lamb Brains and Tongue.—Take the tongue from the head after it has been boiled, and put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover it. Wash the brains in lukewarm water, pick the fibres from them, and tie them in a piece of muslin, with a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and boil all together for a quarter of an hour. Take out the brains, chop them small, season them with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of cream, and half an oimce of fi'esh butter rolled in flour. Stir them over the fire, and let them boil, a minute or two, then skin the tongue, place it on a hot dish, and servo the brains round it. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for one person. Lamb, Braised.—Bone a shoulder of lamb, fill up the opening with forcemeat, skewer it securely, and braise it for two hours over a slow fire. Serve on spinach or sorrel prepared in the usual way. Probable cost, about Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Breast of, and Peas. — Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, cut away part of the fat, and divide into neat pieces. Dredge a little flour over these, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, and let them remain until they are lightly browned on both sides, then pour over them as much warm water as will cover them ; add a bunch of parsley and a small onion, and simmer gently until the moat is three-parts cooked. Skim off the fat, take out the onion and parsley, and mince the latter finely. Return it to the gravy with a pint and a half of green peas. Add a little pepper and salt, and simmer again until the peas are tender. Place the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy and pefia over it, and serve as hot as possible. M Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of, Braised (sometimes called Lamb a la Milanaise).—Tako the skin from a breast of lamb, and scald it for two or three minutes in boiling water. Drain it, and plunge it at once into cold water. Peel a lemon, cut it into thin slices, lay these on the breast, and afterwards cover it all over with bacon. Put the meat into a braising-pan, pour over it half a pint of nicely-flavcm-ed stock, and let it simmer vciy gently until done enough. Have ready haK a pound of boiled macaroni, put it on a hot dish, place the lamb upon it, and coA-er the whole with half a pint of good brown gxavy. The appearance of the dish will be very much improved if the lamb is glazed. If prefen-cd, the macaroni may be omitted, and spinach served with the lamb. Time to simmer, until tender, from an hour and a half to two houi'S. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of. Braised (another way).—Braise a breast of lamb as in the last recipe. When sufficiently cooked, take out the bones, put the meat between two dishes, lay a weight upon the top, and let it remain until cold. Cut it into neat pieces, the size and shape of cutlets. Let these be heated in some of the liquid in which the meat was braised, glaze them, and place them in a circle on a dish, with a quart of fine green peas in the centre, prepared as follows:—Put a quart of peas into a bowl, with as much cold water as will cover them, and two or three ounces of fresh butter. Eub them together with the fingers, until they ai'e weU covered with butter, then di-ain off the water, and put the peas into a stewpan with a small slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, two or thi-ee green onions, half a tea-spoonfiil of salt, and two tea-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar. Stew them gently over the fire, and moisten them, if necessary, with a little of the boiling gravy. When they are nearly done, remove the ham, parsley, and onions, and let them boil until they are tender, and no liquid remains. Work smoothly together half an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour. Put this to the boiling peas. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire until the peas are well thickened, then serve immediately. Time, an hour and a half, or more, to braise the lamb; about thirty minutes to stew the peas. Pro- bable cost of lamb, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Breast of. Broiled.—Trim a breast of lamb, and put it into a stewpan with as much stock as will just cover it. Add a bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck -with one or two cloves, and let it simmer very gently until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones, then take these out. Sprinkle a Little pepper and salt over the meat, brusli it over twice with egg and broad-crumbs, to which, if liked, a little chopped parsley can be added, or a tea-spoonful of powdered herbs, and broil it over a clear fire. "Wlien it is brightly browned on one side, turn it carefully to brown the other ; serve on a hot dish, and send the following