( 150 ) COL COP fii-e, and lot it stand for a quarter of an hour to clour. Pour tho coffee into the cups, and serve with niiik and sugar. I'robablo cost, 2s. pur pound. Suihciont for one pint of colfoo. Coffee, Ice Cream.—Mix a breakfast- cupful of strong clear cuil'eo with another one of boiling milk, six table-spoonfuls of iinely- aiftod sugar, and tho yolks of six eggs. Stir tho custai-d over a moderate lire xmtil it thickens, then add a pint of thick cream. Stir it again over tho fu-e till tho cream coats the spoon, but do not lot it boil. Poui- it out, when cold put it in a mould, and freeze in tho usual way. Coffee Jelly.—Pour a pint of boiling milk through a muslin bag containing tlu-eo ounces of freshly-ground coffee. Put one ounce and a half of soaked gelatine into a sauce- pan with a pint of cold milk, an inch of stick cinnamon, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Let it boil, and stir it until the gelatine is dis- solved. Mix the yolks of two eggs with the coffee, strain the milk and gelatine upon it, pour it into a mould which has been inunersed in cold water, and let it remain in a cool place until stiff. It "svill stiffen in about twenty-four houi-s. Probable cost. Is. 3d. SuflS.cient for rather more than a quart of jelly. Coffee, Soyer's Mode of Making.— M. Soyer, the French cook's, way of making coffee was to warm the freshly-ground coffee, mixed with a soup9on of chicory, over the fire, stirring it imtil it was quite hot. He then poured the boiling water upon it, allowed it to stand for ten minutes, and served it "with milk and sugar. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of coffee and a quarter of an ounce of chicory for every three quarts of water. Probable cost, 6d. per quart, -with milk and sugar. Coffee, To Grind.—Coffee should not be ground too finely, or it will be difiBicult to make the liquid clear. It ought to be ground immediately before it is used. Nothing so soon loses its flavour as coffee when it is powdered, and especially if it is left uncovered. If chicory is added, two ounces will be enough for one pound of coffee. SmaU coffee mills for domestic use are sold everj-where. Time to grind, a few minutes. Sufficient, a pound of raw berries when roasted and ground wiU produce thirteen ounces of ground coffee. Coffee, To Roast.—To roast coffee properly, a suitable apparatus, which is made for the purpose, should be purchased. There are two or three different kinds, and the price varies, the cheapest being about 8s. Manyper- sons, however, who have a prejudice in favour of roasting their own coffee, and do not possess a " drum," use an iron saucepan with a closely- fitting lid. If this is done, great care will be required, or the coffee will either be burnt, in which case the aroma will be destroyed, or not sufficiently roasted, and then the flavour will not be fully developed. It is a good plan to wash the bci-ries before roasting them, it not only cleanses them, but tests their quality. Those which float on the top of the water are not good. The berries must afterwards be carefuUy dned, both in a cloth and in the tin. lo roast them, put a Uttle piece of perfectly fresh sweet butter about tho siise of a wahiut into tlie pan with three pounds of berries. Place the hd on, iind shake the saucepan aljout continually, until a slight smoke arijies. I'hen 1 di-aw tlio saucepuu back, and stir the berries about with a wooden spoon tUl they are lightly and equally browned, to the colour of cinna- mon. Spread them on a flat dish, and throw a thkk cloth over them. When quite cold put tho berries into dry bottles, and cork them closely. It is a good plan to buy a krge quan- tity of raw berries, and roast two or three pounds as required. The cofteo berry ouglit not to be roasted until it is throe years old, and it im- proves with keeping. The fire should be clear and bright, but not fierce, or half a minute will 1 bum it. Colander.—The colander is a basin with handles, and perforated holes at the bottom and sides. It is used for straining vegetables, (fee, and is brought into daily use in almost every household. Colanders are made of tin and earthenware; the tin ones are the more durable, i but the earthenware are the sweeter of the two, excepting when quite new. Probable j cost, Is. to 4s. I Colcannon.—Boil separately equal weights of yovmg cabbage, savoy, or spinach, and po- tatoes. Chop the greens and mash the potatoes, I and mix them well together with a httle pejjper 1 and salt, and one oimce of butter to one poimd j of the mixed vegetables. Heat the mixture I over the fire for a few minutes, stirring it all the time; then press it into a hot, well-buttered mould. Turn out and serve. Or, press it after mixing into a well-buttered mould, and put it into the oven for half an hour. Turn out and serve. Cold vegetables may be warmed up in this way. Probable cost, 6d. for a pint mould. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cold Pudding.—Butter a plain roimd mould, and ornament it with raisins and sKced candied citron. Put a little orange or apricot marmalade on some ladies' fingers, place them in the mould, and pour over them some nicely- flavoured custard. Let them soak for half an hour, lay a buttered paper upon the pudding, and steam gently for one hour and a half. Turn the pudding out when it is cold, and serve it with a little sherry. Probable cost. Is. 4d. for a medium-sized pudding. Sufficient for four persons. Collared Meat.—To collai- meat is lo I preserve it so that it will keep much longer ; than when fi-esh. It is well seasoned, shced. pickled, and rolled. Meat thus prepared makes a nice breakfast or luncheon dish. It should