CHE CHA ( 116 ) driven in tightly, a vent-hole should he made in the cask. Probahle cost of gooBoborries, Is. per gallon. Chancellor Pudding.—Butter rather thickly a plain round mould, and ornament it with alternate rows of raisins and citron, mak- ing a star or some other device at the bottom of the mould. Put in it a layer of small sponge- aikes, sprinkle over them a few raisins and a little iinely-choppod citron, then four or live ratafias, and pour over those a toa-spoonful of sherry, and repeat imtil tho mould is nearly full. Take a pint of milk sweetened, and flavoured with Icmon-rind, and mix -with it tho yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Stir this a few minutes oyer the fire till it thickens, but it must not be allowed to boil. When it is time to steam the pudding, pour the custard, which must be cold, gradually over the cakes. Place a piece of well-buttered writing paper on the top, put it in a saucepan, and either boil or steam it very gently indeed, until sufficiently cooked. It should stand four or five minutes before it is turned out. Serve with wine sauce. Time to boil, or to steam, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chantilly Soup.—Boil one pint of young green peas, shelled, three spring onions, and a sprig of mint, until the peas are qiiite tender. Remove the mint and the onions, press the peas through a sieve, and pour three pints of nicely- flavoured boiling stock to them. Serve very hot. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for six persons. Char.—This fish is considered a great delicacy, and is peculiar to the lakes of Cum- berland ; it is seldom offered for sale in the London market. The flesh is rather like that of trout. Wash the char, dry it with a soft cloth, dust it over with flour, and broil it gently till it is ready. Send piquante sauce in a tureen to table with it. Time to broil, ten or fifteen minutes. One medium-sized char will suffice for two persons. Charlotte.—A' Charlotte, or French fruit pudding, may be made of almost every kind of fruit, or of two or three kinds together. Take a plain round mould, butter it well, and line the bottom and sides completely with strips of the cnunb of bread well buttered, making each piece fold over another, so as to make a complete wall of bread. Fill up the dish with any sort of stewed, fresh, or preserved fruit, taking care to have it sufficiently moist to soak the bread a little. Cover the top with slices of buttered bread. Put a plate and a weight over the pudding, and bake it in a quick oven. Turn it out in a shape, and serve with sifted sugar and cream. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. for a mould. Sufficient for four or five persons. Charlotte (a la Parisienne).—Cut a Savoy, sponge, or rice cake into thin horizontal slices, spread some good jam on each slice, and restore the cake to its original shape. Cover it equally with an iciag made by mixing the Ughtly- whisked whites of four eggs with five ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Sift a little more sugar over it, and dry the icing in a gentle oven. Pound cake may be iced in the same way, but, of course, if this is used tho jam should be omitted. Tho Charlotte must remain in a gentle oven till the icing is dry. Probable cost. Is. 8d. for a medium-sized cake. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Charlotte Prussienne. — Put a little nicely-flavoured red jelly, not quite an inch deep, at the bottom of a plain mould. Let it become stiff. Line the sides of the mould compactly with finger biscuits, and half fill it with good jelly. Put it in the ice jjot, and as it begins to freeze fill it up with an equal quantity of well-whipt cream. Serve it turned out of the mould. All sorts of variations may be made in the flavouring of this pudding. Time to freeze, half an hour. It had better remain in the ice until ready to serve. A medium-sized mould will suffice for six persons. Charlotte Russe.—Line a plain round mould with finger biscuits, carefully put them close together, and form a round or star at the bottom of the mould. Take a pint of cream and whisk it well with a little sugar and half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in a little water. Mix with it half a pint of apple, apricot, straw- berry, or any other jam, and set it to freeze. Cover it vsdth a piece of Savoy cake the shape of the mould, and be carefiU to fit it exactly, so that when it is turned out it will not be likely to break. Let it remain in the ice tmtil it is sufficiently frozen. Turn out and serve. If fruit is not at hand the cream may be flavoured with coffee, burnt almond, vanilla, &c. Time to freeze, about an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for a quart mould. Charlotte Ilusse (another way).—Line a plain round mould with French biscuit of different colours. Divide the mould into four compartments by placing inside pieces of biscuit the height of the mould perpen(Hcularly. These must of course be placed across both ways. Fill each division with a different puree of fruit, cover it closely with biscuit, and bake in a good oven. Tiun it out of the mould, and serve with a little custard. Time to bake, half an hour. The probable cost -will depend upon the fruit with which it is filled. Sufficient, one pint mould for four persons. Cheese, Bath Cream.—Put a gallon of new milk and two quarts of cold spring water into the cheese-tub, with sufficient rennet to turn it. More will be required than if milk alone were used. When the curd comes let the whey drip from it, then pour a little water over it and let it drip again. Fill the vat with it, place a weight upon it, and apply dry cloths for a day or two. Turn it out on a plate, cover it with another plate, and turn occasionally. It will be ready for use ia a fortnight. Neither salt nor colouring are required. Cheese, Blue Mould, To Produce. —The blue mould which is so much liked in cheese comes no one can teU how. It may be accelerated by brushing it while still soft with a hard brush dipped in whey, and then rubbmg it once a dav with butter; and repeating this