GBA GRA ( 277 ) ^ntly, until lightly browned, and keep stirring, to prevent burning, ^lix with the gravy, smoothly, two tablo-spoonfuls of flour, and a dessort-spoonful of cliopped pai'sloy. Add two tablo-spoonfuls of vinegar or lemou-juice, a ■cupful of good stock, and half a sKce of bread, toasted until it is firm and hard, but not burnt. Garnish the dish with pickled gherkins. Time, half an horn-. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Savoury. This is another name for CuUis, or Kich Gravy, tvhkh sec. G-ravy, Seasoning for.—Put one ounce and a half of white pepper into a mortar, with half an ounce of mace, one ounce of nutmeg, two di-achms of cayenne, a di-achm of ginger, and a drachm of cassia. Pound, and mix thoroughly. Put the powder into a small bottle, and keep it closely corked, or the strength and flavour will escape. A pinch of tliis powder will season half a pint of gravy. Gravy, Shallot (for Broils and Grills).— Peel three shallots. Cut them into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, -with three table- epoonfuls of best French vinegar; boil for five minutes, then add a quarter of a pint of clear brown gravy, two pinches of salt, and two giains of cayenne. Boil altogether five minutes longer and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for nearly half a pint of gi-avy. Gravy Soup, with Vermicelli.—Take two quarts of clear brown gravy soup {see Gravy, Brown, Soup). Let it boil, then di-op into it, very gradually, three ounces of fresh vermicelli. If long kept, the soup wiU be quite spoilt. The vermicelli should be rubbed between the fingers, and dropped in with one hand, whilst the soup is being stirred with the other to prevent any lumps foi-ming. Simmer gently until it is thick and soft, and serve with a French roll in the tureen. A plateful of grated Parmesan cheese should be sent to table with the soup. The usual plan is to soak the vermicelli in boiling- water for a few minutes, di-ain and cool it in a colander, then simmer it gently for five or six minutes, stirring frequently to prevent it get- ting into lumps. Time, from twenty to thirty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Probable cost, vermicelU, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gravy, Stock for.—For ordinary do- mestic use, a good cook will seldom require gravy-beef, with which to make gravy. The bones and trimmings of meat and poultry, the shank bones of mutton, which have been soaked, brushed, and long stewed with the gravy which is left from joints, generally supply aU that is wanted. When fresh meat 18 necessiir)', beef skirt, kidney, cow-heel, the shin of beef, or any of the ingredients which are used for the stock of soup, may bo used for gravy. It should be remembered that ketchiip and sauces for flavouring should be put in a short time only before serving, as the strength speedily evaporates; and, it is best to bo very sparing in thoir use, as a little may be added, but cannot be taken out. If gravy is too Aveak, it should be boiled in an uncovered pan; if strong, in a covered one. It should be kept in a cool place, in an earthen jar, the lid of which should not be put on until the gx'avy is cool. If there is the slightest suspicion that the meat for gmvy will not keep, it should be lightly fried. Gravy, To Clarify.—The easiest way of clarifying gravy is described in the recipe, Clear Soup (made from bones), where white of egg is used. The best method that can be adopted for doing the work will bo found in the recipe. Clear Soup (excellent), where raw beef is employed. Gravy, To Improve the Flavour or Strength of.—When gravies are wanting in flavour, they may be improved by being boiled quickly in an uncovered saucepan, and by the addition of a little ketchup, or any of the best prepared sauces. If this is not sufficient, take two or thi-ee ounces of the lean of uncooked ham or bacon, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, two shallots finely minced, a piece of parsley root, two allspice berries, three cloves, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Keep these ingicdients over a gentle fire, shaking them often to prevent burning, for about half an horn-, or until the pan is coloured with a bright red glaze; add, very slowlj', a pint and a half of the gravy, and simmer gently for half an hoiu- longer. Fish gravy must be flavoured judiciously with anchovy or hening brine, soy, and walnut ketchup. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Probable cost, 6d., for the flavouiing. Gravy, To Keep.—When gravy is to be kept it should be put into earthen pans, freshly scalded and di-ied. Vegetables should be strained from it, and if any fat cakes on the top, it should be left untouched until the gravy is wanted. It should be boiled up ever)' day in summer, and every two or three days in winter, and the pan scalded and dried. It is best left uncovered, but if a cover is necessary to keep out the dust, it must not be put on untU the gravy is quite cold. Gravy, To Make Mutton like Ven- ison.—Let the mutton hang as long as it will keep sweet. The length of time will depend upon the weather. Cut a "high" snipe, or woodcock, into small pieces, being careful first to remove the bag from the entrails, and stew them gently in a pint and a half of unseasoned beef or mutton gravy. Strain, and pour it boiling hot over the mutton. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Gravy, Veal, for White Sauce.—Put one pound of lean ham at the bottom of a sauce- pan, with two pounds of the neck, or the fleshy part of the knuckle of veal, cut into two or three pieces. Cover them with a quarter of a pint of good broth, and boil, rather quickly at first, and afterwards very gently, until the meat begins to glaze. Pierce the meat once or twice with a skewer, and shako tlic pan frequently to prevent burning. When the glaze is lightly brown, add, gradiially, two pints of good brotli; and simmer gently for two hours. If it il wished to flavour the gravy, an onion and a