( 49i ) OYS Oxford Punch.—Rub tho rind of three fri'sh lemons with half a pound of loaf sugar, in lumps, until all the yellow part is taken off Put the sugar into a large jug with tho thin rind of a Seville orange and a lemon, the strained juice of thi-ee Seville oranges and eight lemons, and a pint of liquid caLf's-foot jelly. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Pour over them two quarts of boiling water, and sot the jug which contains them on the hob for twenty minutes Strain the mixture into a punch-bowl, and when it is cool, mix with it a bottle of capillaire a pint of brandy, a pint of rum, half a pint of hght ^vine, and a quart of orange shrub. Sufficient for nearly a gallon of punch. Oxford Sausages.—Mince very finely one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean pork, and one poimd of beef suet. Add three tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a pound of stale roll, which has been crumbled and soaked in butter for two or thi-ee minutes. Three-parts fill the prepared skins with the mixture, and fry them before serving. If it is preferred that the sausages should be seasoned, add the finely-minced rind of half a lemon, a nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of powdered sage, and a small tea-spoonful of lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, and basil. A chopped anchovy is by some persons considered an improvement; but, generally speaking, the sausages are preferred plain. Time to fry, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Oxford Sausages, without Skins (Theodore Hook's recipe).—Take a pound and a half of pork from the griskin, freed entirely from skin, a pound and a half of beef suet, and half a pound of lean veal. Mince all very finely, separately at first, and afterwards to- gether. Mix thoroughly, as the excellence of the sausages depends in a great measure upon the mixing. Season with three small tea-spoonfuls of salt, one tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful of diied, powdered, and sifted sage, and bind the mixtm-e together w-ith five well-beaten eggs. Press the meat into a stone jar, and keep it in a cool place. It will remain good for two or three days in summer, and nearly a week in winter. When wanted for use, roU the mi.xture into the usual shape, or into balls, on a floiu-ed board, and fry the sau.sages before serving. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Oyster and Fish Pie (see Ksh and Oyster I'ie). Oyster and Lobster Pie {see Lobster and Oyster Pic). Oyster Sauce, Beef Stewed and {see Beef Stowed with Oysters). Oyster Sauce for Fowl [see Fowl, White Oyster Sauce for). Oyster8.--Oy8tor-beds have in past years been HO over-fished, that oysters are at the present time very expensive. As, however, Htspa have bfen tfikr«n l)y Oovommont to ])reserve them for tho future, it is to bo hoped that in a few years they will bo more plentSuL Oysters are imiversally liked, and besides being delicious, are considered wholesome and nourishing for delicate and consumptive persons. When cooked, they appear more frequently as components of other dishes than by themselves, and when served thus, preserved oysters, which may bo obtained of any grocer, will be found an economical and excellent substitute for the fresh fish, though not quite equal to it. According to law, oysters come into season on the 4th of August, and go out at the beginning of May, which justifies the old saying that they are to be eaten whenever there is the letter li in the month. There are several kinds, each large town having its favourite oyster-bank, but " Natives " are generally considered the best. Oysters cannot be too fresh, and when eaten raw, should be swallowed as soon as they are opened, as exposure to the air spoils their flavour {see Oysters, Eating of). They may be preserved alive for some days, but their quality gradually deteriorates. It is said that if a cupful of hot milk is taken by delicate persons immediately after partaking of oysters, it will greatly assist their digestion. Excellent oysters have lately been imported to England from America. Oysters (au Gratin).—Put six ounces of macaroni into a stewpan with three pints of boiling water. Season -with a pinch of salt and two pinches of pepper, and simmer for twenty minutes. Drain the macaroni, and put it back into the saucepan with half a pint of good gravy, and let it stew imtil the macaroni is tender and the gravy absorbed. Turn it out, chop it small, and put it again into the stewpan with a dozen or more of oysters, cut into small pieces, two ounces of grated Parmesan, one ounce of butter, a pinch of cayenne, and as much milk or gravy as will moisten it. Shake the saucepan oyer the fire mtil the cheese is melted, then pile the macaroni high in a dish, sprinkle over it an ounce of grated Parmesan and a dessei-t- spoonful of browned bread-crumbs, pour over half an ounce of claiified butter, and brown the mixture in a gentle oven, or before the fire. Serve very hot. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six person s. Oysters, Baked.—Mix three table-spoon- fuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs with half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, gi-ated. Beard a dozen oysters, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in the seasoned crumbs, put each one in its lower shell, and lay a small piece of butter upon it. Place the oysters in the oxen, or before the fire for a few minutes, until they are quite hot. Before ser\-ing, squeeze a little lemon-juice upon them. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. 1. S*eak Pie with {se» Beet Steak Pie wth Oysters). Oysters, Boiled—Wash the sliolls earo- fiilly ; tlirow them into a saucepan of boilinff water, and lest them Imil quickly for three ot