PAN PAN ( 600 ) until the vegetables are soft enough, then press them through a fine sieve, rubbing thoni well with the buck of a wooden spoon, lieturn the pulp and the liquid to tlie saucepan, season it well with salt, and add a little sugar if the arti- chokes wore old. Stir the soup over the fire until it boils ; put in half a pint of boiling milk or cream, and serve immediately. The soup should not boil after the cream is added. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pan, Bain Marie {see Bain Marie Pan). Panachee Jelly.—Take any quantity of perfectly clciir and transparent jolly, properly sweetened and tlavourcd. Dissolve it, and divide it into two equal portions, and coloui- one of these with three or four drops of prepared cochineal. Soak a mould large enough to contain the whole of the jelly in cold water, then fill it with alternate layers of the clear and the coloured jelly, remembering only to let each layer become perfectly stiff before another is added. If the jelly becomes so firm that it cannot easily be turned out, a napkin may be wrung out of boiling water, and wrapped round the mould for a minute or two, and this will probably be aU that is required. Time, according to the state of the weather. The jelly will of course stiffen more quickly if the mould can be put into ice. Probable cost of calf's-foot jelly, 2s. per pint. Panada.—Panada is a preparation of bread which is used by the French in making force- meats, and is much superior to the grated crumbs ordinarily used in English kitchens. The flavoviring required for the whole of the forcemeat is generally put into the panada, and this flavouring is therefore a matter of con- siderable importance. Panada is made as follows :—Slice the crumb of two French roUs into a basin, and pour over it as much boiling milk or broth as will cover it. Let it soak for half an hour, or until it is quite moist, then press it with a plate to squeeze out the superfluous liquid; afterwards put it into a cloth, and wring it thoroughly. Put an ounce of fresh butter into an enamelled saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, haK a blade of mace, powdered, or a little gi-ated nutmeg, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thjone, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, half a dozen chopped mushrooms, and a slice of lean ham, cut into dice ; a bay-leaf may be added or not. Stew these ingredients over the fire for a minute or two, then add the soaked bread and two table-spoonfuls of good white sauce or gravy. Stir the mixture over a gentle fire, until it forms a dry smooth paste and leaves the sides of the saucepan, then mix in the unbeaten yolks of two eggs ; put the preparation between two plates, and when cool it is ready for use. If preferred, instead of mixing the herbs and seasoning with the panada, the gravy or sauce may be simmered with the seasoning, until it is highly flavoured, and then strained over the bread. In making the forcemeat, equal quantities should be taken of whatever moat is to be used, panada, and calf's udder, or butter, and these should be pounded- together in a mortar, until they are thoroughly blended. When udder is used, it should be well boUed with as much water as will cover it, then allowed to lool, trimmed, rubbed through u tine sieve, and added to the forcemeat. TJie ])anada is to be stii n-d over the fire until the mixture leaves the saucepan. Panada (Invalid Cookehy).—Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into thin slices, and put these into a saucepan with as much chicken broth as will soak them. L(;t the panada boil, then add a little sugar and grated lemon-rind, and a glassful of light wine, if approved. Serve immediately. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for one person. Panada (Invalid Cookeuv. Another way). —Put a quarter of a pint of water and a glassful of sherry into a saucepan, with a lump of sugar and the very thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, or, if prefened, a little mace. Let these ingre- dients boil, then add three table-spoonfuhj of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Boil quickly for five minutes, and serve. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Panada, Bread.—SUce the crumb of two French rolls into a basin, and pour over it as much boiling gravy as it will absorb. When quite moist, beat it well with a fork, add whatever seasoning is required, put the bread into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is dry and smooth, and leaves the saucepan with the spoon. When cool, it is ready for use. Time, about half an hour to soak the bread. Probable cost, 6d. Panada for Fish {see Fish, Panada for). Panada for Fish Forcemeat.—Put the third part of a pint of water into a moderate- sized saucepan, with an ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of salt. Let it boil, then sprinkle in gradually four ounces of fine flour; stir until the panada is smooth and stiff, then add the unbeaten yolks of three eggs. Spread the panada on a plate, and when cold it is ready for use. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Panada, Game {see Game Panada). Panada Soup.—Cut the crumb of two French rolls into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan, with as much cold water as wiU cover them. Let them boil for five or six minutes, then press them through a fine sieve, and put them back into the saucepan, with the liquid in which they were boiled, and two ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to a cream. Season the mixture with a httle salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir it over the fire again until it boUs, then add the yolks of two eggs, which have been beaten up with a quarter of a pint of new milk or cream, and serve immediately. The soup must not be allowed to boil after the eggs are added. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 7d., if milk be used. Sufficient for two persons. Pancakes.—The batter for pancakes is best when made an hour or two before it is wanted for use. It should be quite smooth, and of the consistency of thick custard. The eggs