(62) BEE BEE vai-iouB wayH; the vogotablos boiled in it will have gruutly improved the flavour. The following: Ainorifau recipe for boiling salted moat will bo amusing and instructive :—Boil- ing Salted Mkat.—A well known American w-itor says, " 1 was once informed by an old patron how ho and his wife learned to cook corned beef." H j jaid, " that having to furnish a hasty meal for hhnsolf and his men, ho decided upon cooking a piece of corned beef. He pro- cm-ed a good-sized piece, and it was late before it began to boil. Having to watch the pot him- self, after a hjird day's work, ho resolved to have a nap, leaving the pot over a slow fire, luid tliinking he would be sui-e to wako up before it was done. When ho awoko he found that his beef must have simmered slowly until the fire went out. Expecting to find it in pieces, or else sodden and tasteless, he lifted the meat from the pot, and finding it almost cold, cut and tasted it. It was the most delicious piece he had ever eaten, and so thought all who tasted it. Since that time," he adds, " my corned beef, hams, tongues, or any kind of salted meat in- tended for boiling, is put over the fire early and left to boil slowly or simmer a long time, and after it is done the pot is lifted ofl: the fire, and the meat is allowed to cool in the pot from twenty minutes to half an hour. Following this plan we always have specially good meat, and so say all our friends who sit at our table to partake of it." Beef, Boiled, Italian Sauce for.— Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stewpan and stir into it one ounce of flour till it becomes a rich brown, then add one-eighth of an ounce of salt, the same of pepper, and half a gill of white French wine, previously reduced from one gill by boiling, and three-quarters of a pint of bouillon or broth. Boil fifteen minutes, and add three table-spoonfuls of fine herb sauce. Skim and serve. Sufiicient for one poimd and a half of beef. Beef Bones, Broiled.—There are few dishes more appetising than broiled bones, whether of beef, mutton, or poultry. Great attention should be given to the fire. If not ; clear the bones will be blackened and lose their nice delicate flavour. Divide them, if necessary, rub them with a little clarified butter, then with pepper, salt, and mustard, and broil over the fire for about five minutes. Serve alone or with sliced potatoes fried and very hot. Beef Brains (see Bullock's Brains). Beef, Braised, Rump (a la Jardiniere). —Eemove the bone from a piece of rump weighing about sixteen pounds, and trim and tie it into a nice shape. Simmer it for three hours in the stock-pot, and after well draining put it into a braising - pan, with a gravy made in the following manner:—Put three carrots, three onions, three shalots, three bay- leaves, and a sprig of thyme into a stewpan with a pint and a half of good rich gravy. Slice the vegetables and simmer untU the flavour is extracted and the gravy reduced to about one pint, then strain and add the best part of a pint of Marsala. Pour this gravy into the braising-Tian over tlie meat, simmer and baste constantly for two hours. Add half a pint of Spanish sauce; skim and strain into a tmvon to be served with the beef. Garnish with brussels sprouts, carrots, and cauliflowers; tho latter is best placed at the ends and sides of the dish, with carrots on each side of the cauli- flowers and the brussels sprouts to fill up the spaces between. Time to simmer, three hours; to braise, two hours. Probable cost, lid. to Is. per pound. Sufiicient for a remove. Beef, Braised, Rump, with Maca- roni.—Cook the beef as before directed, and boil some blanched macaroni in veal brotli. Drain it, and add some Spanish sauce and grated Parmesan cheese. Mix well and serve round the meat. Tomato sauce may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to boil the macaroni from fifteen to twenty minutes. Beef, Breslau. — Take three or four ounces of bread-crumbs, beat up three eggs and add them to the crumbs and a small cupful of good brown gravy; break throe ounces of butter into small pieces, and mix all together with half a tea-spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, two table- spoonfuls of minced thyme and parsley, and a little cayenne. Wlien these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take of roast beef, rather undercooked, from a half to three-quarters of a pound, mince it very finely, mix well with the forcemeat, and bake for half an hour in buttered coffee-cups. Turn out, and serve with egg-bails round the dish and gravy if liked. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 8d. Sufiicient for a small dish. Beef, Brisket of. Stewed.—Take six pounds of beef, and, before di-essing it, rub it over with vinegar and salt; place it in a stew- pan with stock or water sufdcient to cover it. Allow it to simmer for an hour, skimming it well all the time. Put in (six each) carrots, turnips, and small onions; and allow all to simmer unto, the meat is quite tender, which will be in about other two hours. As soon as it is ready the bones should be removed. Boil for a few minutes as much of the gra'V'y as will be required with fiour and a little butter, and season it with ketchup, allspice, and mace. Pour a little of it over the brisket, and send the remainder to table in a separate dish. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per pound. Beef, Brisket of. Stewed (another way).—Take about seven pounds of nicely- trimmed brisket. Any bone should be taken out, get it without if possible; put it into a stewpan with water or stock to cover, a layer of bacon under, and over a few cloves, whole allspice, a bunch of sweet herbs, two small onions, two carrots, and sjilt and pepper at discretion. Simmer in a tightly-covered stew- pan from four to four and a half hours, then strain off the liquid (there will not be much), reduce it to a glaze, keeping out a little for sauce. Glaze the meat, and send up the sjiuco thickened round it. Garnish with carrot cut into slices, and glazed onions, which must be cooked apart from the meat. Probable cost, 8d. per poimd.