CTJO OITO (168) and one inch wide, remove the seeds, strew a little salt over thorn, and lot them remain be- tween two platoa for an hour or more. Drain off the juice, and put them into a saucepan, cover them \vith good stock, and lot thom simmer gently until quite tender, which will be in about twenty minutes. Drain them, pile them on a dish, pour some good brown sauce over them, and siTve. Time, one hour. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each. Sufficient, one large cucumber for half a pint of sauce. Cucumbers (a la Poulotte),—Peel two small, young cucumbers. Remove the seeds. Cut the fruit into pieces about one inch thick and two inches long, stew these till tender in water with a little salt and vinegar in it; drain them. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour; mix the butter and flour well, and let them remain about three minutes. Add^radually one pint of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Put in the cucumbers, with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and in a minute or two two table-spoonfuls of cream. Draw the sauce from the fire, and, just before serving it, add the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon. Time, one hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Cucumbers, Fried.—Take the rind from the cucumbers, slice them, dredge over them a little pepper, and lay them in flour. Make some butter very hot, put in the slices, and when they are tender and lightly browned, strew a very little salt over them; drain them, and place them on a hot dish under the steak or hash with which they are to be served. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each. Sufficient, one small cucumber for one pound of rump steak. Cucumbers, Pickled.—If the cucimibers are very young and small they may be pickled whole, if not, they are better cut into thick slices. Sprinkle salt rather plentifully over them, and let them remain twenty-four hours. Drain them from the juice, dry them in a cloth, and pour over them boiling vinegar, with half an ounce of mustard-seed, one ounce of salt, one ounce of long pepper, half a bruised nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne to every quart of vinegar. Cover them closely, and let them re- main until next day, when the vinegar must again be boiled and poured over the cucumbers, and this process repeated each day for four days. They should then be covered closely, and care should be taken with these, as with aU pickles, that they are thoroughly covered with vinegar. It is best to pickle cucumbers by themselves, as they are apt to become mouldy. If any sign of this appears (and they should be looked at every three or four weeks to ascertain it, and on this account should be kept in a wide-mouthed glass bottle instead of an earthen jar), put them into a fresh dry bottle, boil the vinegar up again, and pour it over them. Time to pickle, one week. Pro- bable cost of cucumbers, 4d. to 6d. each. Cucumbers, Preserved (An excellent gweetmeat for dessert).—Choose cucumbers that are young, fresh, and nearly free from seeds, spht them, cut the pieces across, take out the seeds, and lay them for three days in brine strong enough to bear an egg. Put over them a cabbage-leaf or vine-leaves to keep them down, and place a cover over the pan. At the end of that time take them out, wash them in cold water, and set them on the fire with cold water, and a tiny lump of alum. As the water heats, keep adding a little more, until the cucumbers are a bright green, which they ought to be in a short time, and if they are not, change the water again and let them heat as before, but they must not boil. Drain them, and when cool pour over them a syrup, made by boiling a quart of water, a stick of cinnamon, one ounce of ground ginger, and one pound of loaf sugar for every pound of cucumber. Boil the cinnamon and ginger in the water for an hour, then drain it and add the sugar, and boil to a thick syrup. Let the cucumbers lie in this for two days, when the syrup must Ije boiled for ten minutes with ihem. Put the preparation into jars and leave it until next day, when it must be covered closely. These direc- tions must be minutely attended to, or the sweetmeat will not be a success. Time, six days. Cucumbers, Stewed.—Take two or three yotmg fresh cucumbers. Peel them, and cut them into quarters lengthwise, remove the seeds, dry them, dip them in flour and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned. Lift them out with an egg-slice, drain them, and put them into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of good brown gravj'. Season with pepper and salt, and stew them gently imtil tender. Just before serving add a dessert- spoonful of Chilli vinegar and a small lump of sugar. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Cucumbers Stewed with Onions.— Prepare the cucumbers as in the last recipe, and fry with them an equal number of sKces of onion, being very careful that they do not burn. Stew these in the gravy with the cucumbers. If it would be preferred a little richer, the yolks of two eggs might be added to the sauce, but of course if this were done the sauce must not be allowed to boil after the addition. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 5d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Cucumbers, To Dress.—Pare the cu- cumber and cut it into thin slices, or pare it round and round into ribands, leaving out the watery part. Sprinkle a little salt over, and in a few minutes drain oflt the water which exudes. Put the slices on a clean dish, and pour a little oil and vinegar over them, and if neces- sary add a little more salt and pepper. Many persons like a few slices of onion served with the cucimiber, or a tea-spoonful of the -v-inegax in which onions have been pickled, may be added to the other ^^negar. Probable cost, cucumbers 6d. each, when in full season. Cucumbers, To Keep, for Winter Use (German method).—Pare and slice the cucumbers. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and cover them with a dish. The next day