(812) HER HEB, winter savoury, and parsley, and put all into a saucepan. Pour over tlioiu four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, the iiiice of a lomon, and a pint of cold water. Add a dozen peppercorns, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a di-aclun of bruised celery-seed, a leaf of tarragon, a des- sert-spoonful of salt. Bring the sauce to a boil, colour rather darkly with burnt sugar, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, Strain through a jolly-bag, and, when cold, put it into bottles, and cork secunay until wanted for use. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint and a quarter. Herb Soup.—Take a handful each of cher\nl, parsley, spinach, and sorrel, and half a dozen young cabbage lettuces. Wash, drain, iind shi-ed them finely, and put them into a ste\vpan, with four ounces of butter, two or three sliced carrots, and a little pepper and salt. Lot them steam for half an hour, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent burning. Pour in three quarts of clear soup, and simmer for twenty minutes. Add a little grated nutmeg. Strain the soup, beat the yollcs of three eggs with half a piat of milk, and stir it in gently just before serving. This soup may be varied by the addition of a quart of green peas, a cuciunber cut into slices and fried in butter, or a few onions. When peas are put in, however, the sorrel should be omitted. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Herbs and Spices, Aromatic Sea- soning of {see Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices). Herbs, Aromatic Powdered, for Seasoning.—Dry and pick away the stalks from three ounces of thyme, three oimces of marjoram, three ounces of basil, one ounce of bay-leaves, and two ounces of winter savoury; put them into a mortar, and with them two cloves of garlic finely minced, half an ounce of grated l^non-peel, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, one ounce of nutmeg, grated, one ounce of powdered mace, two ounces of peppercorns, and two ounces of cloves. Pound all thoroughly in- a mortar, pass the powder through a wire sieve, and put it into bottles, which must be securely corked untU wanted. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quan- tity. Half a tea-spoonful is enough for one pint of sauce. Herbs, Bunch of Sweet.—A bimch of sweet herbs, which is often mentioned in recipes for soups, stews, &c., consists of two sprigs of parsley, one of orange or lemon thyme, and one bay-leaf, or two sprigs of parsley, one of sweet marjoram, one of winter savoury, and one of lemon-thyme. These herbs should be fastened securely together with thread; they can then be easily removed before the dish is served. Herbs, Chopping.—Pick off the leaves, wash and dry them in a Dutch oven as quickly as possible without burning them. Hold the leaves firmly in the left hand, and cut them through very finely with a sharp knife. Turn the long shredfl round, and cut them finely the other way; then finish by chopping with both hands with the knife. ^Herbs, Drying and Storing for Winter use.—(iather the horhs on a dry day. They are at their greatest perfection j ust l)etoro they begin to fiower. Cleanse them nnmodiately, cut ofl: the roots, divide them into small bunches, and diy them in a Dutch oven before the fire, or lay them on dishes in a moderate oven. If this is not convenient, they may l)o divided into bunches, and laid on sheets of paper in the sun, but the more quickly they are dried the better will be their flavour. Care must be taken that they do not bum. WTien dry, it is usual to tic the herbs in paper bags, and keep them hanging in a dry place until wanted, but it is much the better plan to pick off the leaves, pound them in a mortar, pass them through a sieve, and the powder into bottles, which must be kept closely corked. The different herbs should be gathered and dried in the following months:— Basil. The middle of August. Burnet. June, July, and August. Chervil. May, June, and July. Elder Flower. May, June, and July. Fennel. May, June, and July. Knotted Marjoram. July. Mint. The latter end of June and July. Parsley. May, June, and July. Sage. August, and September. Savoury, Summer. The latter end of July and August. Savoury, Winter. End of July and August. Tarragon. Jiine, July, and August. Thyme. End of July and August. Thyme, Lemon. End of July and August. Thyme, Orange. Jxme and July. Herbs, Essence of, for Seasoning.— Squeeze the juice from four fresh lemons, strain it, and put it into an earthenware jar, and with it a bottle of white wine, and half a pint of vinegar. Add a drachm each of powdered cloves, mace, basil, thyme, and nutmeg, also an oimce of dried parsley, half a poimd of salt, and two ounces of pepper. Put the pan in the oven, and bring the'contents to the point of boUing, then put on the cover, and keep them simmering gently for four hours. Strain the liquid, filter it through blotting-paper, and keep it in closely stoppered bottles tiU wanted for use. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the ^vine. Three drops of the essence are about enough for a pint. Taste, and add more if required- Herbs, Fried.—Pick, wash, drain, and finely mince two handfuls of spinach, one of parsley, and four or five yoimg onions. Put them into a stewpan, with a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter, and one table-spoonful of broth. Put on the lid and stew them gently, shaking the pan frequently, and be careful they do not bum. Fried herbs are often served as an ac- companiment to calf's liver. Time, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Herbs, Lamb Chops with {see Lamb Chops with Herbs). Herbs, Powder of—Weigh the leaves of the driea herbs {sre Herbs, Drying and Storing for AVintor use), after they arc soparatci] from the stalks. Take two ounces of lemon-thjnne,