APP ( 23 ) APP of butter the size of an egg, let it melt, then add to it a quarter of a pound of sugar, a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the juice of a lemon. Fry the apples gently m this, then an-ange them either round the inside of a dish, each sUce resting on the edge of another, or piled liigh in the nuddle. Time to fry, ten niinutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apples, Preserved.—Pare, core, and chop small thi-ee pounds of good cooking apples. Have ready some thick boiling sjTup, made of three pounds of sugar and a pint of ■water. Throw in the apples, mth the chopped rind of three lemons and one ounce of whole ginger. Let it simmer gently until the apples look clear. Time to simmer, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for half a dozen jars of modei-ate size. Apples, Praserved, for winter use. —\Vhen it is desii-ed to preserve apples for use in winter, the fruit should not be allowed to remain too long on the trees, as there is a danger of its being blown down when it becomes quite ripe, and then it is not good for keeping. Apples, and indeed all fruit intended for keeping, should be hand-picked. The best way to remove them from the tree is to cut them ofE with a pair of strong pruning scissors, and to handle the fruit as lightly as possible. If practicable, the apples should be gathered in fine, di-y weather. They should then be wiped thoroughly dry, and everj'- one which appears in the slightest degree unsound rejected. In storing apples, they should be placed in a dark, diy place in single rows upon clean straw, with straw placed between each row, so that they are not allowed to touch each other; each layer inust be treated in a similar way. They should be looked over frequently, and any that may have become unsound removed. Apples may be also stored in boxes or jars, care being taken in packing the fruit, that it is not bruised or injured, and that every apple is quite sound. The air must be excluded from the cases as much as possible. Apples, Hed Hot.—I'ake a quantity of Keswick codlings, pared, cored, and cut in quarters. Stew them in a little water, but not 80 long as to allow them to become pulp. Sweeten amply with pounded loaf sugar, and flavour to taste, with caj'enne pepper; colour with cochineal. Apples (Red) with Jelly.—Take half a dozen very fine apples. Pare and core with- out dividing them, and put them in a saucepan with a pint of water, the rind of a lemon, and half a pound of loaf sugar. Place them on the fire and stew them very gently until the apples are quite tender, then lift them out and lay them in a glass dish. Boil the sugar and water with a little^ melted isinglass to make it set, then strain it, and add a few drops of prepared cochineal, and put it aside. When it is quite cold, lay it in rock-like pieces among the apples, and garnish the dish with sprigs of m>Ttle, the white of egg beaten to a froth, &c. &c. Time to simmer the apples, about three-quarters of an hour. This forma a very pretty supper dish. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apples (Souflle of) in Rico. —Put into a saucepan a quart of new milk, a cupful of rice, the rind of half a lemon, a piece of butter the size of a nut, and sugar to taste. Let it simmer very gently until the milk is absorbed and the rice quite tender. Beat it well for four or five minutes ; brush the border of a good-sized disli with white of egg to make the rice adhere, then lay it round in a border about four inches wide. Take a breakfast-cup- ful of apple jam, and mix with it a piece of butter, melted, the size of an egg, and the weU-beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir this over the fire gently for a few minutes, then add the whites of four eggs whisked to a froth. Fill the dish, and bake in a good oven until the souffle rises. Serve immediately. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Apples, Stewed.—Apples are very nice pared, cored, shced, and gently stewed with a little white wine, sugar, and flavouring. They are quickly prepared, sei"ved with custard are a pleasant substitute for apple pie, and are an agreeable addition to the tea-table. They may be mixed with plums or other fruit. Time to stew, a quarter of an hour. Apples, Stewed for Dessert.—Wipe carefully six or eight large apples. Place them in a saucepan with half a pound of sugar, a few cloves, the rind and juice of a lemon, and a pint and a half of water. Let them simmer at the side of the fire until the apples are tender but not broken. Lift them out with a spoon, and lay them in a glass dish. Strain the juice, then let it boU a few minutes longer to reduce it. When almost cold, pour it over the apples. Invalids find apples stewed in thia way much more tender than if simply baked. Time to stew, varying with the quaht)'. Apples, Stewed in Halves.—Pare, core, and halve half a dozen good-sized baking apples. Place them in a saucepan vdth throe table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little water, the rind and juice of a lemon, and of an orange. Let them simmer gently untU they are soft. Sen'e with the syrup strained and poured over them. Time to simmer, half an hour. Apples Stewed in Whiskey. — Pare and core without dividing two pounds of sweet apples. Place them in a saucepan with two glasses of whiskey, a pound and a half of sugar, a little whole ginger, the rind and juice of two lemons, and an inch of cinnamon. Simmer very gently for two hours. Take the scum off as it rises, and turn the apples every now and then. When the apples are clear, take them off carefully, place them in the jars in which they are to be kept, and boil the liquid a few minutes, and pour it over them. This is a very nice dessert dish. If tied doyra closely, the fruit wiU keep twelve months. Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the whiskey. Apples and Almonds, Pudding of Stew to a pulp six or eight good baking apples,