( 347 ) KET KIB dry place; the corks should either be covered with resin, or a small piece of bladder should be tied over each one, and the liquid should be ex- amined frequently, and if there are the slightest signs of fermentation or mould, it should be re-boiled with a few peppercorns, and put into fresh dry bottles. It is perhaps needless to observe that great care must be taken that the mushi-ooms are of the edible kind. These may be known by their pleasant smell, by the skin parting easily from the edges and middle, by the upper part and the stalk beiug white, and by the colour of the under side, which is pink or salmon-coloored when the mushroom is young, and afterwards turns to a black or dark brown. Ketchups. — Recipes for making the following ketchups wlU, be found under their respective headings:— Mushroom Anchovy Cucumber Elderberry Fish Irish Walnut Lemon Mussel mustapha Oyster Tomato Walnut Kew Mince, or Haggis Royal.—Cut one pound of lean meat from a cold roast leg of mutton. Mix it with half a pound of finely- fihred suet, four table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, one boned anchovy, one tea- spoonful of minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, one small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, add a wine-glassful of port or claret, and the yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture neatly into a veal caul (or when this cannot be procured, put it into a saucepan), and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible, ■\vith half a pint of good brown gravy in the dish. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour to bake. Pro- bable c(Jst, exclusive of the wine. Is. 8d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Kid.—A young sucking kid, weU cooked, fonns an excellent dish, and is generally dressed whole, like a hare. If grown to any size, it should be jointed before cooking. As it is a dry meat it should be either soaked in a marinade for a few hours, and afterwards hung up for a day or two, or larded before being roasted. The marinade may be made of one pint of vinegar, one pint of cold water, half a pint of port, two ounces of salt, two ounces of moist sugar, twelve peppercorns, and a bay- leaf. Place the kid in this, baste it frequently, and wash it in the marinade once or twice when it is hung up after being taken out. Kid (i\ la Poulette).—Soak a young kid in milk and water for four hours. Drain it, bind strips of fat bacon round it, and roast before a clear fire for three-quarters of an hour. Take it down, and cut a neat piece, weighing about two pounds, from it, leaving the rest to hash, or cook at some other time. Put the piece cut of? into a saucepan, with a pint of veal stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a dozen button-mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and a piece of butter, the size of an egg, rolled in fiour. Let it stew gently for an hour; then take out the meat, place it on a hot dish, strain the sauce, let it boil up once more, then di-aw it to the side of the tire to cool for two minutes, and add gradually the well-beaten yolk of an egg, mixed with a table- spoonful of thick cream. The sauce must not boil after the egg is added, or it will cm-die. Pour the sauce over the kid, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish the dish with parsley and cut lemon. Probable cost, uncertain, kids being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four persons. Kid, Hashed.—Take about two pounds of the remains of a cold roast kid—if under-dressed so much the better. Cut it into neat slices, and put it into a covered dish untH wanted. Put a pint of good veal stock into a saucepan, with an ounce and a half of butter, roUed in flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a blade of mace, r. sprig of parsley, and a shallot. Simmer gently for half an hour. Strata the gravy, add a wine-glassful of port, a table-spoonful of mushi-oom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a lump of sugar. Put in the slices of kid, let them get quite hot without boiling the gravy, and serve imme- diately. Spinach, cauliflowers, or French beans, are excellent as accompaniments to this dish. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold kid and wine, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Kid, Roast.—Soak the kid in a marinade, as directed above; then bind strips of fat bacon round it, and cover it with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. About half an hour before it is done enough, remove the paper and bacon, dredge some flour over the kid, and continue the basting as before. Dissolve one table-spoonful of red-cuiTant jelly in half a pint of mutton gravy, add a wine-glassful of claret, and send the sauce to table in a tureen. Time, according to size: to rotist a very young sucking kid will take about an hour and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, kids being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Kidney and Beef Steak Pudding {see Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding). Kidney and Liver Pudding.—A good puddmg may be made with equal weights of ox kidney and liver, as follows :—Take three- quarters of a pound of each. Cut them into slices, and season with salt and cayenne. Fry these with two ounces of bacon, cut small, and two ounces of dripping. When lightly browned, pour over them by degrees three-quarters of a pint of water, or stock, mi.xed with a table- spoonful of flour. Line a pudding-basin with a good crust, put in the meat and gravy when nearly boiling, place the lid over, pinch the edges securely, tie the b'lsin in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly until the puddinir is done enough. Serve as hot as possilde. Boil two hours and a half. Cost„ about lis., SuflicicuL i<>r I'uiu' or live poiKnus,