( 142 ) coc coo tho liquid thi-ough imislin, and put it into a BJiucopan with an equal (juaiitity of vincf^ar, a blade of maeo, and a wino-glasHful of shorry or brandy to ovory pint of liquid. Lot this boil. Put the coeklos into bottlos, cover thorn with tho liquid, and cork thorn closely. Time to open the cockles, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Cockles may bo used to make fish-sauce whon oysters aro out of season. Cocoa.—Mix two tca-apoonfuls of prepared cocoa with a littlo cold milk, beat it with the back of a spoon until quite smooth, then pour over it equal quantities of boiling milk and water sulHciont to fill a breakfast-cup. Stir well together. Tho rock cocoa miist bo scraped into powder before it is used, then made as above. Time, five minutes. Cocoa Wibs.—Cocoa nibs, or shells, aro the coverings of the cocoa kernel. They should be soaked in water for twelve hours, then boUed in the same water till it is reduced to half the quantity. When cool, the oily matter should be taken from the top, as it would be likely to disagree with an invalid. It is then served like chocolate. Time to boil, five hoirrs. A quarter of a pound of nibs should be boiled with three quarts of water. Probable cost, Is. per poimd. Cocoa-nut Cake.—Mix one pound of sifted loaf-sugar with three-quarters of a pound of the white part of cocoa-nut grated. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, and mix all well together. Drop the mixture on paper in rough knobs about the size of a walnut, and bake then in a slow oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient, one dozen and a half for a dessert-dish. Cocoa-nut Candy.—Put one pound of the best loaf sugar, broken into lumps, into a saucepan, and pour over it half a pint of spring water. Let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then place it on the fire and allow it to boil for five or six minutes. Remove the scum and boil the sugar until it is thick and white, then stir into it a quarter of a pound of the white of a fresh cocoa-nut finely grated. Stir it unceasingly until it rises in a mass in the pan, then spread it as quickly as possible upon sheets of paper which have been dried before the fire. Re- move the paper before the candy is quite cold. Let it dry, then store it in tin boxes. The grated cocoa-nut should be spread out and allowed to dry for two or throe days before it is used for candy. Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes.—Pare off the rind from a fresh cocoa-nut, grate the white part, and put it into a perfectly clean saucepan with its weight in sifted sugar and the milk, or, if this is not quite sweet, two or three spoonfuls of water. Let it simmer, stirring it gently until tender. Wlien the mixture is cool, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten and a spoonful of orango-flowcr water. Line some patty pans with good puff paste, and put a little of the mixture into each. Bake in a good oven. Sift a little sugar over the cheese- cakes before baking them. Time to boil tho cocoa-nut, about throe-quarterB of an hour Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Cocoa-nut Cream.—Put a cupful of cold spring water into a saucepan with the thin rind of a quarter of a small lemon, throe table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and a table-spoonful of the white of the coco!t-nut shcod. Boil gently to a thick syrup; then add tho milk of two cocoa-nuts thickened with a table-spoonful of corn-flour or arrowroot. Let all boil up togotlier for a minute or two, add a cupful of cream, strain, and stir until cold. Just before serving, put with tho cream half a wine-glassful of brandy and three or four drops of vanilla essence. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d.. exclusive of tho brandy. This is a good sauco for a sweet pudding. Cocoa-nut Cream (another way).—Put one pound of finely-sifted sugar into a sauce- pan with three-quarters of a pint of water, and as soon as the sugar is dissolved, stir in the white part of a fresh cocoa-nut lightly grated and the thin rind of a small orange. Let the nut stew tmtil tender. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Cocoa-nut Gingerbread. — Put one pound of golden syrup, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar into a saucepan. Let tiiem heat very slowly until the butter is q\xite melted, when it must be well mixed with the syrup, and the mixture poured into a bowl containing half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of the best flour, one ounce of ground ginger, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, the rind of half a lemon cut into small pieces, and one ounce of chopped candied lemon. Mix thoroughly, put the paste on one side, and, when it is quite cold, stir into it the white part of a large cocoa-nut finely grated. "VSTien it is well beaten, drop the paste upon a well-buttered tin in small cakes, and bake these in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Pro- bable cost. Is. 3d. per pound. Sufficient, eighteen or twenty cakes for a dessert-dish. Cocoa-nut Macaroons.—Take a fresh cocoa-nut, grate it finely, and allow half a pound of finely-sifted sugar and the whites of four eggs beaten to a firm froth to every quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Drop little balls of the paste xipon a well-buttered tin about two inches apart from one another. Bake in a moderate oven. When the macaroons are lightly browned all over they will be ready. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient, eighteen or twenty for a dessert-dish. Cocoa - nut Milk Flavour. — This exceedingly delicious flavouring is obtained by boiling the grated white part of the nut with fresh sweet milk, and it may bo used in the composition of bisciuts, cakes, custards, blanc- manges, &c. To six ounces of the nut finely grated add two quarts of milk. Simmer the liquid slowly to extract the flavour without reducing the quantity of milk. Do not mix the mUk from the nut until it has been tasted