FOR ( 219) grated lemon rind. Bind with three beaten eggs, and fill both crop and body. Forcemeat of Beef—Take cold mashed potato, some slices of beef minced tine, a few savoui-y herbs, popper, and salt. Mix these with two eggs to a paste. Make into balls. Fry in butter a rich bro^vn. Garnish with fried parsley. Forcemeat of Fish.—Clear away the skin and bone from tiubot, brill, or any sohd fish; mince one pound of the flesh very fine. Stew an onion in butter, and when tender, pound it in a mortar vnth. four ounces of butter, broken into bits. Add six ounces of bread, previously soaked in milk and squeezed diy; a couple of eggs, which should be well beaten, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; and when all is well mixed, stir in the fish, and make up into balls to be fried or boiled. Previous to mixing the fish with the other ingredients it should be passed through a wdi-e sieve. Forcemeat of G-ame.—Clear the meat from the bones, and mince it with a quarter of a poimd of fat bacon to each pound of game. Flavoiu- with shallot, capers, lemon-peel, and a verj' few leaves of taiTagon, all of which should be minced very fine. Soak some bread, and press out all the moisture; add it, with the yolks of three eggs. If the bacon be salt, be careful not to over-salt the forcemeat; pepper to taste; and stii- in the frothed whites of eggs before using. Forcemeat of Liver.—To one pound of caK's liver allow a quarter of a pound of fat bacon; chop them both separately. Stew in butter, but do not browTi, a shallot, an onion, and, if Uked, a small clove of gai-lic. Cover the stewpan until tender. Press out the moistvire from some bread which has been soaked in water, and add it to the butter in the pan; stir it to a stiff paste, adding more butter if re- quii-ed. Remove the paste to a mortar, and pound it with the chopped liver, &c., a couple of eggs beaten wthout the whites, a small quantity of allspice or nutmeg, pepper, and salt. When well pounded together, pass the force- meat through a wire sieve. Forcemeat of Mushroom.—Procure four ounces of young just opened mushrooms. Peel them, cut ofi: the stems, and remove the brown part. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and let them simmer very gently over a slow fire, vnth. a slight flavouring of mace and cayenne. Spread them over a dish, placed in a slanting position to drain away the mois- ture. When cold, mince them, and add four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a small seasoning of salt, cayenne, mace, and nutmeg, a piece of butter, and the yolks of a couple of eggs to bind. Throw in as much of the mushroom gravy as will make the forcemeat of the proper consistency. It will be greatly improved if the whole mixture be poimded in a mortar. Make •nto balls, poach, and throw into soup ; or fry, and serve round a dish of roast fowls or minced veal. It is also good as a stuiffing for boiled fowls, partridges, &c. Time to stew in butter, seven minutes; to poach balls, six minutes; to fry, six or seven minutes, Forcemeat of Onion.—An accompani- ment for roast turkey or fowl. After peeling, scoop out the inside carefully, and fill up the vacancy with forcemeat. Bake the onions in the oven. Forcemeat of Oyster.—Get very fresh oysters, beard them, and cut them into quarters. Grate bread enough to fill half a pint, and one ounce and a half of finely-shred suet or butter, which should be broken into bits. Mix all these ingxedients together with a good flavouring of herbs, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Bind with two well-beaten eggs. This forcemeat is for boiled or roast tui-key. It may be made also into balls and used as a garnish. Eighteen oysters are suffi- cient for one turkey. Forcemeat of Pasty.—Take an equal weight of bacon and lean pork, a pound of each, and two pounds of veal. Lay them in slices in a stewpan, with just enough water to keep the meat from sticking to the bottom, two ounces of butter, a shred onion, and a tea- spoonful of white pepper. Cover the lid closely, and steam over a slow fire till the meat is tender, then remove it to a dish to be minced very finely. Pour a cupful of milk into the stewpan with the gravj'^, and season with salt, pepper, a very little mace, and a few minced green herbs. Beat up half a dozen eggs, and stir them in; and lastly, mix the meat well with it. Have ready a round form lined with paste, thi-ow the mixture in, and cover with the paste lid, which should have a hole in the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and do not turn out until cold. When served, cut through like a cake. Forcemeat of Sausage. — Prepare a sausage-meat, in the proportion of two parts of lean pork to one of fat. Take equal quantities of this and bread-criunbs; add two ounces of butter, a seasoning of salt, pepper, and a drachm of mace. Pound all together in a mortar, and bind with the yolks of a couple of eggs. Forcemeat of Shrimp.—Clear a pint of shrimps from their shells, and chop them finely. Mix with an equal quantity of bread-crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mace. Pound into a smooth paste, with two or three ounces of butter. Bind with the yolk of an egg. Use this forcemeat to stufl: any fresh water fish. A pike, for example, if stuffed and baked, will be found excellent. Forcemeat of Veal.—Chop lean veal, free from skin or fat, and then pound it in a mortar; add a third of its weight of butter or suet, and the same of fine bread, which should be first soaked in cold milk and squeezed dry. Pound all in the mortar, with a flavouring of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Bind with the yolks of two eggs, and make the paste into little baUs, or use it as a stufiing. Four-fruit Jelly.—The fruits selected for this excellent jelly are those which will yield the most juice. Take of fine red-currants, half a pound, of chemes. raspberries, and straw- berries, each half that weight; get out all thojr