CAE ( 91 ) CAK Bakinff.—SmsLil cakes require a quick oven when they are fii-st put in, to make them rise, but the heat should not be increased after they have begun to bake. Lai-ge cakes should bo put into a moderate oven, in order that they may be well baked in the middle before they are overdone on the outside. In order to ascer- tain if a cake is sufficiently baked, insert a skewer or knitting-needle into the centre of it, and if it comes out perfectly clean, the cake is sufficiently ready, but if anything is sticking to it, the cake must bo put back into the oven at once. Cakes should be gently turned out of the mould when ready, placed on the top of the oven to dry, then laid on their sides to cool. They should bo kept in a cool place, and in tin canisters, closely covered. A cake keeps better when made without yeast. Cake, Cheap and Wholesome.— "When bread is made at home, it is easy to make a good wholesome cake from the dough, of which a little must be taken out of the bowl after it has begun to rise. Allow four ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg, some chopped lemon- rind, or candied peel, and either a quarter of a pound of currants or a few bruised caraway- seeds to one quartern of dough. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, dredge a little flour over them, and place the bowl near the fire, covering it with a thick cloth. When well risen, put it into buttered tins and bake immediately in a moderately-heated oven. One quartern of dough wiU be enough for a good-sized cake. Cake, Common.—Mix two and a half pounds of flour with half a poimd of brown sugar. Stir in a tea-cupful of good yeast and half a pint of lukewarm milk. Knead these well together, and set the dough near the fire to rise. When it rises, add half a pound of picked currants, or two tea-spoonfuls of cara- way-seeds, and half a pound of melted butter in another half pint of milk. Knead again, and let the mixture rise once more. Put it into tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour. The above ingredients will be sufficient for two large cakes. Probable cost, 8d. each. Cake, Diet Bread..—Beat four eggs, then add to them a quarter of a pound of dried flour, and half a pound of loaf sugar, with six drops of almond flavouring. When these are well mixed together, place them near the fire to warm, then pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for a small mould. Probable cost, 7d. Cakes.—Directions for making the follow- ing cakes will be found imder their respective headings :— AnERFRAU Albany Al.mond, oe Maca- roons Almond Cheese Ai jMoxd, Icing for Almond, Plain Almond, Rich Almond, Sponge American Breakfast, oil Griddle American Velvet Breakfast American White Annie's Apple Apple Tart or Athole Aunt Edward's Christmas aurelian Banbury Batter, of Indian Meal Beef Brain Bread, Fried Breakfast, or Eolls Bride Buckwheat Buttermilk Garbage Canadian Cheap Children's Christmas Cinnamon Citron Cocoa-nut Cocoa-nut, Pound Cod-fish Corn-meal Corporation Cream Cream of Rice Cream of Tartar Curd Cheese Currant Date Derwentm'Ater Dessert Devonshire Devonshire, Short Dover Egg Powder Elecampane or Candy Fish Flame French Frost, or Icing for Genoa Genoese German Ginger Cup Gipsy Girdle Glove Gooseberry Graham Guernsey Hare Hazel-nut Honey- Honey, German Icing for Imperial Indian Griddle Indian Meal, Johnny- Irish Irish Griddle Irish Luncheon Irish Seed ' Johnny, or Journey Josephine Kneaded Lafayette Lemon Lemon, Rich Loaf Loaf, Indian Meal Loaf, Luncheon Love Ltincheon Luncheon, from Dough Luncheon, Plain Mac^vroon Magdalen Malaprop Manx Meat, Moulded Milk, Breakfast MODENA Montrose My Own Neapolitan Nun's Oat Oat, Lancashire Oat with Yeast Oatmeal Bannocks 0R.4.NGE Oswego Parisian Parliament Passover Paste Petticoat Tails Plain Plum Plum, Common Polish Potato Potato Cheese Pound Pudding Queen Queen's CiNNAMoif Quince Ratafia Rice Rice Cheese Rusk Sally Lunns Sand Sausage Meat Savarin Savoy Scotch Scotch, Christmas Scotch, Diet Scrap Seed Seed, Common Seed, Plain Seed, Superict. Short Shrewsbury Simple Snow- Soda Spanish Sponge Sponge, Smali Sugar SijSTER Tea Tipsy TuNBEIOaE Turin