AME ( 10 ) AME with tho same (iiiiiutity of fiosh j'oiiHt; udd u quuitor of u pound of buttor nioltod, but not hot, sugar to taste, and a couple of eggs well beaten, and then, very gradually, sutliciont flour to make a tolerably linn dough. I'ut it into small tins, well oiling them iirst; sot tliem before the lire for about twenty minutes to rise, and bake in a quick oven. Do not make the buns too largo. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Sufficient for a dozen buna. Probable cost, 8d. American Breakfast (or Griddle Cakes).—Whisk two eggs, stir them into a quart of lukewarm milk, and add a tea-spoonful of salei-atus, and a salt-spooilful of salt. Mix •with thorn sufficient Indian meal to make a stilf batter, and bake them in small round tins ■which have been oiled or buttered. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. This will make about two dozen cakes. American Biscuits (or WafQes). — Pour two pints of good milk into separate vessels. In one put a quarter of a poimd of butter, cut up and melted with a gentle "wai-mth, and allow it to cool. In the other vessel put eight eggs, beaten up lightly; mix these with the milk gradually. To this add, also gradually, a quarter of a pound of flour, then the milk containing the butter. Stir in a large table-spoonful of strong new yeast, cover the pan, and set it near the fire to rise. When the batter is quite light, take what in America is called a waffle-iron, in which the batter can be shut in, baked, and turned over. This is greased, some of the batter is WAFFLE-IBONS. poTired in, and it is put among the coals of a clear bright fire. The biscuits should be sent to table quite hot, half a dozen on a plate, with a little powdered cinnamon and white sugar. They arc called Waffles ; and wo have heard American ladies complain sadly of being tmable to get these delicious biscuits made in England. Waffle-irons may be obtained at Jewish ironmongers. They only require a few minutes to bake, and the above ingredients will make sufficient for five or six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. American Oven.—This oven is neither so generally known jxor bo highly appreciated as it deserves to b(;. In hot weather, when a largo fire which would heat an oven or roast a joint is most objectionable, this little article, when once its management is understood, may AMEEICAK OVEir, be used to cook meat and puddings, or even pastry, and will be found to do its work per- fectly. It is particularly adapted for those preparations which require to be cooked slowly. A Httle experience is all that is necessary in using it. The only directions which can be given are that the oven must not be placed close to the fire, but about a foot and a half distant from it; that the meat should be turned and basted frequently; and that it should be put down in good time, so that it can be cooked slowly. A very small, though clear fire, is all that is necessary. If these hints are attended to, no difficulty need be experienced in using this convenient and economical appa- ratus. Probable cost, 9s. to 12s. American Pancakes.—Mix the yolks of four and the wliites of two eggs, ■with two table- spoonfuls of water. Put in a pinch of salt, and add gradually six heaped table-spoonfuls of flour; beat the mixture till it is quite smooth, and then add new milk sufficient to make a thin batter. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into an omelet-pan. Let it melt, but not bro-wn. Then pour in a little of the mixture—enough to thiidy cover the pan. Let it stiffen, loosening it round the edges, and shaking it to prevent it sticking. Throw it up to turn the pancake, and when it is nicely browned on both sides it is ready. Send to table on one dish, piled one over the other, ■with pounded cinnamon and sifted sugar over each : cut into quarters, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Enough for a good-sized dish. American Sand-wiches.—Get half a pound of cold boiled ham or tongue, chop it fine, and put it into a basin, -with a table-spoonful of chopped pickles, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a little pepper. Put about six oxmces of butter in a basin, and stir it quickly ■with a spoon till it forms a kind of cream ; add the chopped meat and seasoning, and mix all thoroughly. Cut some bread into thin slices, and some very thin slices of veal, fowl, or game; spread a slice of