LEM LEM ( 372 ) tho custard. Probable cost, Is. Sufficiout for four or fivo persons. Lemon Fritters.—Sliroil two ounces of beef suet very iiuoly, add u dtisaort-spoonful of flour, three ounces of lino broad-crumbs, the grated rind of a largo lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, stii- in a table-spoonful of milk, two woIU beaton eggs, and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Fry the mixture in small quan- tities until it is lightly browned on each side; di-ain, and serve as hot as possible. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. iSuf- ficient for two or three persons. Lemon Gingerbread {see Gingerbread, Lemon). Lemon Honeycomb.—Mi.x the whiter of two eggs with a pint of cream. Sweeten it, and flavour with a little grated lemon-rind. Whip it briskly, and as the froth rises place it upon the strained and sweetened juice of two lemons. Let it remain a few hours before being used. The juice sliould be put into the glass dish in which the honeycomb is to be served. Time to whip the cream, about one hour. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Ice Cream.—Rasp the yellow rind of two large frosli lemons upon half a pound of loaf sugar. Powder it, and strain over it the juice of one lemon. Add a quart of cream, stir until the sugar is dissolved, freeze, and serve. If milk has to be substituted for the cream, it may be enriched by the addi- tion of the yolks of four eggs. It must then be stirred over the fire until it is boiling hot, and the juice must not be added until the liquor has cooled. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4s. if made with cream. Is. if made with milk. Sufficient for rather less than, three pints of cream. Lemon in Cream, Fruit {see Fruit, Lemon, in Cream). Lemon Isinglass, or G-elatine, Jelly. —Rub the yellow rind of three large fresh lemons upon half a pound of sugar. Pour over it the carefully-strained juice of six lemons, and put it into an enamelled saucepan, with one ounce of isinglass, a pint of water, and a large wineglass of sherry. Stir these over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the jelly through a bag, and if it is not perfectly trans- parent, mix it, when quite cool, with the whites and crushed shells of three eggs whisked %vith a quarter of a pint of cold water. Let the jelly boil for three minutes without stirring, then let it settle for five or six minutes, and strain it again. Time, about an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 3s. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. Lemon Jelly, Isinglass, Superlative. —Take six large fresh lemons, rub them well with a soft cloth, then pare the rind very thinly from three of them, and throw it into a syrup made by boiling a pound of refined sugar in a pint of water for six minutes. Strain the juice oi all the lemons through muslin, and when the syrup is cool, mix them together. Put two ounces and a half of best isinglass into an enamelled saucepan, and pour ovfjr them a pint of ayving water wliidi has lioon l^caten up with half the white of an ogg. Stir the liquid gently until a scum begins to form, tlion let it boU softly and skim it carefully. When it has boiled for fivo minutes, strain it, and mix it I with the ckrified syrup. Add a little sherry if this is wished, and run the jelly tluougli muslin until it is quite clear. Put it into damp moulds, and place these in a cool place or upon ice until it is set. Before turning out, dip the mould for a moment in liot water, then turn it upside down on the dish. Serve at once. Time, an hour and a half to jjrepare. Proljable cost, ex- clusive of the sherry, 38. 6d. Sufficient for three pints of jelly. Lemon Juice, Artificial, for Pish, Sauces, &C.—Put half a dozen drops of the essence of lemon, made from oil of lemon, mixed with spirit {see Lemon Essence, Artifi- cial) upon a lump of sugar. Pound it to powder, and stii" it into three ounces of pyrollgneous vinegar. Use as required. Lemon Juice, To Preserve.—Choose fine fresh lemons, and squeeze the juice from them. Strain it through muslin, and put it into bottles, pour over it sufficient olive-oil to cover it entirely, and cork the bottles securely. It will keep for some time. Or, put half a pint of strained lemon-juice into a basin, and with it half a pound of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Stir it with a silver spoon until the sugar is dissolved. Put it into small bottles, cork it closely, and tie bladder over the corks. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Juice, To Purify.—Strain one pint of lemon-juice through muslin; mix with it half an ounce of pounded charcoal, and let it remain until the next day; run it through blotting-paper, and be careful to pour it off gently, so as not to disturb the sediment. Bottle it, cork it tightly, and tie bladder over the corks. Keep it in a cool, dry place. Pro- bable cost of lemons. Id. each. Lemon Eali.—Take two parts of sifted sugar, one part of powdered and dried citric acid, and a little more than one part of powdered bicarbonate of potash. Mix thoroughly, and keep in a closely-stoppered bottle. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient, a tea-spoon- ful for half a tumblerful of water. Lemon Ketchup.—Take six large fresh lemons. Cut oft" the rind very thinly. Make a deep incision in the end of each, fill it with salt, and afterwards rub salt all over them, using not less than three ounces. Let the lemons stand in a warm place for seven or eight days; then put them into an earthen jar, strew over them a quarter of an ounce each of mace, cloves, and cayenne: add two ounces of horseradish, and if the flavour is lik'ed, one ounce of garlic or shallots. Put a pint and a half of best white vinegar into a saucepan, with half a blade of mace, and half an oimce of bruised ginger. Simmer it gently for three minutes, then pour it hot upon the liquid. This pickle may stand for five months before it is strained; though, if