( 268 ) GIN Ginger Sauce.—Grato an inch and a half oi; whole ginger, and mix it with four tabio-spoonfIlls of tinoly-siftod loaf sugar. Put these into a saueepan, with a hreakfast-eupful of water and an inch of lemon-rind. Himmer gently for ten minutes, then add tho juico of a lemon and a glasH of white wine or brandy. Strain before serving. Probable cost, 3d., ex- clusive of tho wino. Suliiciont i'or one jnat of Kiiuco. ^ Ginger Snaps.—Mix half a pound of flolu" with two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Add a jjinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of groimd ginger, and a pinch of cayenne. Make into a paste with four ounces of treacle .and a table-spoonful of milk. Bake in a moderate oven, on a buttered tin, in small round cakea, till crisp—from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Ginger Souffl^ Pudding. — Mix smoothly over the fire one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour. Add tho well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a giU of milk. Beat to a smooth batter ; pour the mixture into a basin, and stir into it one ounce of preserved ginger, cut into thin slices, with a tea-spoonful of the ginger sprup. Just before bakiiig, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Butter a mould rather thickly. Ornament the inside in any pretty fanciful way with lemon, citron, or 'dried fruit, cut into shapes; pour in the batter, place a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam gently, until it feels firm in the centre. Turn out, and serve with ginger sauce {see Oinger Sauce). Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient ior three persons. Ginger Syrup.—Break three-quarters of a pound of ginger-root into small pieces. Boil it gently Avith four quarts of water, and the thin rind of a lemon, imtil the water is reduced ■one-half. Strain, and boil again with five pounds of loaf sugar. Eemove the scum care- fully tUl no more rises ; and when the sjnrup is •cold, bottle it for use. Time, five hours. Pro- table cost, 28. 8d. Sufficient for three quarts ■of syrup. Ginger Water Ice.—Make a syrup by toiling together half a pound of refined sugar with half a pint of water and the thin rind of a large lemon, for ten minutes. Strain, and add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger—half of which has been "well poimded in a mortar, and half cut into thin slices. Mix thoroughly, pour into a mould, and freeze. Probable cost, about lOd. Sufficient for rather more than a jnnt of ice. Ginger Wine. — Boil, in a perfectly clean copper, six gallons of water, eighteen •pounds of loaf sugar, the thin rinds of iseven lemons and two Seville oranges, half a pound of unbleached ginger, bruised, an 1 a •quarter of a pound of raisins. Boil for an 'iiour, skim carefully, and pour oS into a large ■\'at until the next day. The preparation must not be left in the copper. Strain, add the juice of tho lemons and oranges, an ounce of isinglass, and two table-spoonfulB of thick fresh yeast. Put tho ginger wine into a cask, stir it each day until fermentation wjasea, wliich wUl be in two or thi-ee days. Bung it uj), and leave it for six weeks. Sti-ain it into another cask, and in four weeks it will be ready for bottling. A quart of brandy may be added, or not. Sullicieut for a uine-gallou cask. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per gallon. Ginger Wine (a quick- way of makingj. —The uest time for making ginger wine la the spring or autumn. Boil together seven gallons of water, nineteen pounds of sugar, and nine ounces of best Jamaica ginger, liruised, for half an hour. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and leave the liquid imtil the next day. Chop very small nine pounds of raisins—two-thirds of which should be Malaga, and one-thii-d Muscatelle. Put these into a twelve-gallon cask, with a gallon and a. half of good whiskey, or any other spirit, and four lemons, cut into sUces. Let these ingre- dients stand until next day; then put with them the cleared Uquid, being careful to leave any sediment behind, and to strain it. As there is no fermentation, the cask may be bunged immediately. The wine will be ready for fining, by mixing with it one ounce of dissolved isinglass, in a fortnight. In another fortnight it may be bottled. Probable cost, lOd. per gallon, exclusive of the spirit. Ginger Wine, Superior, — Very superior ginger wine may be made by sub- stituting fresh cider for water in the last recipe but one. Gipsy Cake (this ie generally knoT\'n as Tipsy Cake).—Take a g ood stale spongecake, and in choosing the sue, consider the glass dish in which it is to be served. Prick it through in several places with a knitting- needle or skewer, and soak it in sweet -wine and brandy. As the liquid runs into the dish, pour it over again. Blanch some sweet almonds. Cut them lengthways into spikes, and stick these into the cake. Pour a good custard into the dish, and serve as soon as possible. Time, half an hour to soak the cake. Glace Napolitain.—Take four ounces of Carolina rice, wash it thoroughly, and put it in a stewpan with a pint of milk, a pint of good cream, a pinch of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Let the rice swell considerably in this. When it is tender enough to give way between the fingers, add a stick of good vanilla, and boil it one minute, then let it get cold. TNTien cold, take all the cream that remains liquid, and put it in a stewpan with the yolks of six eggs; if there is not cream enough, add to it a little milk. TmTi this on the fire with a wooden spoon, and when the eggs are well done, and the mixture very thick, let it cool. Add to this a pint of double-whipped cream, and after mixing the cream with the custard, taste if the latter is sweet enough. 'Do not make it too sweet. Then take some out m a basin, and put it into the rice only, not into the freezing-pot; next mix together the rice and cream, take out the vanilla, and put all the rest into the freezing-pot; work it well in tho ice.