DUT EEL C 191 ) Dutch Sauce.—Put tour ounces of butter, three well-beaten yolks of eggs, a tea-spoonful of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar into an earthenwai-o pipkin, or stir it very gently over the fire in a bain-marie. As the butter melts, stii- constantly, and take care it does not curdle, which it will do if it is allowed to boU. A few drops of vinegar may be added just before serving if thought neces- sary. This sauce has a pleasant soui- flavour. It is specially adapted for asparagus, cauli- flower, sea-kale, artichokes, boiled fish, meat or poultry; in fact, anything requiring a deli- cate sharp sauce. The leaves picked from a bunch of parsley pounded in a mortar to ex- tract the juice, simmered for a few minutes and added to half pint of bechamel sauce, makes, with a little salt, cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon stirred in just before serving, what is called " Green Dutch Sauce." Simmer till thick. Probable cost, 8d. Dutch Sauce for Pish.—Blend together two ounces of butter and a small tea-spoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with equal quantities of water and tarragon vinegar, two table-spoonfuls of each, stir for a minute, and add the beaten yolks of two eggs, keeping up the stirring until the mixture thickens. It must not boil, and when ready to serve pour into it half the juice of a lemon. Make this sauce in a gallipot, placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Dutch Sauce, Green {s:e Dutch Sauce). Dutch Water Souchy.—Any fresh- water fish is good for this dish. Remove the gills and eyes, and throw them aside, but boU down the heads, tails, and fins with one or two of the fish that will not cut into neat pieces; add an onion, parsley, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt, and about two quarts of water. Boil till the stock is strong enough. Skim, strain, and stew eels, flounders, perch, whiting, gudgeon, &c., all cut into small pieces, in this hquor. Any additional flavouring may be added; an anchovy or shallot is an improvement. Slices of brown bread and butter generally accomfiany this dish at table, and melted butter and parsley in a tureen. Time to make the stock, one hour; to stew fish, ten minutes. E Eastwell Biscuits.—Mix one pound of flour with a pinch of salt. Rub in eight ounces of butter, and add eight ounces of sugar, a little grated ginger, and three eggs, to make a soft paste. Let this rest for an hour. Roll it thmly and stamp it into small shapes. Bake in a moderate oven. Before baking brush the shapes over with egg and sprinkle washed and dried currants or chopped almonds on the top. Eau Sucre.—This is a very general beve- rage in France, made without rule as to quan- tity. A little sugar and some boiling water are the only ingredients. It is considered sopo- rific, and for this reason is much drunk at Bupper-time. Edgings to Dishes.—Of these there is a gl i al variety. We give such as are in general use for made dishes; for instance, rice, mashed potato, all kinds of pastry edgings, peeled new roimdpotatoes, sippets of friedbread, hard-boiled eggs, small cucumbers, tomatoes, sliced beetroot, and lemon, with the white of egg beaten to a froth and dropped on each slice of lemon, and then powdered over with cayeime pepper. Then, for sweet dishes, there is an almost endless variety, but the most elegant are preserved fruits and cream beaten to a froth, and coloured either green or red. It would be impossible to give a recipe for every land of garniture, nor is it necessary. A good cook will use her own ^'udgment and taste, but perhaps for the inexperienced it would be wise to say whf<t edgings best suit certain dishes; for instance, hashes of all kinds may be garnished with sippets of fried bread cut into fanciful shapes, mashed potatoes, and even rice, though the latter is more generally used for cuiTies. Mush- rooms are a most appropriate edging to stewed beef, and hard boiled eggs for calf's head en toHue, or stewed soles; beetroot and parsley are excellent as a garnish for cold meat, and thin strips of beetroot laid crosswise on the breast of a boiled fowl give an excellent finish. Eel Broth.—Take one pound of eels, a bunch of eweet herbs, some parsley, one onion, and a few peppercorns, cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Clean and skin the fish, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients, and six pints of water. Simmer till the liquid is reduced one- half, remove the scum as it rises, and strain aU through a sieve. When the broth is cold and wanted for use, take oflp the fat and warm only what is required. Sippets of toasted bread should be served at the same time. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient to make three pints of broth. Eel Patties.—Skin and wash some middle- sized eels, and after having cut them into pieces of an inch long, soak in salt and water for an hour. When drained, put them into a stewpan with just enough hot water to cover them; add salt, pepper, a blade of mace, a little lemon-peel, and a sprig of parsley. When the fish will sepa- rate from the bone, which will be the case after eight or ten minutes' gentle stewing, divide each piece into two, and put them aside until the broth has stewed a little longer, then re- move the lemon-peel, mace, &c. Thicken with butter and a little flour, flavour with lemon- juice or vinegar, and return the pieces of eel to the broth. Make patties as directed for mutton patties {see Mutton Patties). Time a quarter of an hour to bake the crust. Eel Pie.—Having skinned and cleansed two pounds of large-sized eels, divide them into pieces of two or three inches in length. Cut oS the heads, tails, and fins, and boil them with a little lemon-peel, a shallot, a blade of mace, and as much of veal or mutton broth as will cover the eels in the pie-dish. Thicken with butter and flour, and add the juice of half a lemon When strained and cool, throw the broth into the pie-dish over the eels, sprinkle them with pepper, II