CAB ( 89 ) CAB rashers of bacon over it, and put the dish in a moderuto oven. When it is heated thoroughly, and the bacon cooked, turn it out as from a mould, and pour good bro^vn gravy round it. Time to cook, half an hour. Probablo cost, witliout the cold meat, 2d. or 3d. Suihcient, a small pic-dish full for three or four persons. Cabbage and Bacon.—Boil a piece of pickled pork imtil it is about thi-ee-quarters cooked. Then tjike it out of the water, di-ain it, and place two or three rashers of bacon in the saucepan. Lay on these a cabbage which has been thoroughly washed and cut into quai-ters, and put the pork over the cabbage. Cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock; add pepper, nutmeg, and pai-sley, but no salt, as it will most Ukely be found there is sufficient in the bacon and stock. Simmer gently until the cabbage is cooked. Place the vegetables on a hot dish with the pork in the midst of them; thicken the gravy, and pom- it over the whole. Time to boil the cabbage, twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cabbage, Creamed.— Thoroughly cleanse two young cabbages, and boil them until quite soft. Take them out, drain, and press them between two hot plates until they are di-y, when they may be slightly chopped. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, add pepper and salt, then put in the cabbage, and turn it about for two or three minutes. When it is thoroughly heated, dredge a table- spoonful of flour over it, and mix with it very gradually a cupful of milk or cream. Serve on a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cabbage Jelly.—Boil a cabbage irntil it is tender, place it in a colander, and drain the water thoroughly from it. Then chop it small, and mix with it a little pepper, salt, and butter. Press it into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. Sufficient for four persons. Cabbage, Red, Pickled.—The cabbage should not be cut imtil it has been slightly frost-bitten. Choose a firm, hard cabbage. Re- move the outer leaves and cut it as finely as possible in cross slices. The finer it is cut the nicer will be the pickle. Put it in a large shallow dish with a layer of salt spread over it, and let it remain for twenty-four hours; then squeeze the purple juice thoroughly from it, and place it in pickle-jars, strewing between every handful a little black pepper and bruised ginger. FiU the jars with cold vinegar, or better still, vinegar which has been boiled and allowed to become cold, and cork securely. It is ready for use at once. The French vinegar is the best for pickling. Probable cost of a good-sized red cabbage, 4d. to 6d. Cabbage, Red, Stewed. — Prepare a large cabbage as if it were going to be pickled. Melt two ounces of butter, or of good beef drii)ping, in a saucepan, lay the cab- bage upon it, and cover it with a cupful of vinegar and a pint of nicely-flavoured stock. When it is quite tender, season it with salt and pepper, drain it, and lay it on a hot dish, and arrange sausages round and over it. If pre- ferred the cabbage may be pressed into a mould and poached eggs served with it. It will warm up again perfectly. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. or Od. Sufficient, one lai-go cabbage for four or five persons. Cabbage, Savoy, and Brussels Sprouts.—Wash and pick ofl: the outer leaves. Place the vegetables in a pan of boiling water, to which has been added a handful of salt and a very small piece of soda. Let them boil quickly until tender. Drain the water from them, and serve as hot as possible. Pepper slightly, and spread a little butter over them. Send a little melted butter to the table with them, but not on them. Savoys should be drained from the water, and may be pressed into the dish, and cut in squares. The best way to keep greens a good colour is to put them into the saucepan when the water is boil- ing ; keep them boiling fast all the time; let them have plenty of room and plen-ty of water; let them be uncovered, and take them up as soon as they are cooked. Time, ten minutes for sprouts, half an hour or more for savoys. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Two pounds will be sufficient for four or five persons. Cabbage Soup.—Put two ounces of butter or good dripping into a stewpan, and fry in it two sliced onions ; brown the onions nicely. Pour on them two quarts of flavoured stock, and add two pounds of pickled pork, which must not be too salt. Simmer gently for half an hour, and skim well. Shred finely two small cabbages, two turnips, two carrots, and a head of celery, and tlixow them into the boiling liquor. When the vegetables are tender without falling to pieces, the soup wiU be ready. T'ime to prepare, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per quart. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Cabbage, Stuffed. — Choose a good- sized firm young cabbage. Wash it thoroughly, and lay it in water, to Avhich has been added a table-spoonful of vinegar. Let it remain for half an hour, then drain it, cut oS the stalk, and scoop out the heart, so as to make a space for the stufiing, which may be made of sausage- meat, mixed with chestnuts cut small, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Press the forcemeat into the cabbage, cover it with leaves, which must be well tied on with tape to prevent escape. Place the cabbage in a saucepan with some slices of bacon above and below it, and cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock. Let it stew gently for half an hour. Take out the cabbage, remove the tape, place it on a hot dii-h, and strain the gravy over it. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Cabbage, To keep Fresh. —Have the cabbages cut with two or three inches of stalk, of .which the jiith must be taken out without injuring the rind. Hang the cabbages up by the stalk, and fill the hollow with a little fresh water every day. Cabbages will thus keep fresh for foui- or five weeks. Cabbage, Turnip Tops, and G-reens. —Take some cold greens or turnip tops, dredge