POW FOW ( 223 ) crumbs over all; then fry in butter a good brown. Serve with some of the gravy thickened in the dish. Time, one hour and a half to prepare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl Fillets (au Supreme).—Cut as many neat tillets as you can from three fowls; lay them in paii-s, with forcemeat between, in a dish of clciritied butter, and then fiy them in some more butter, and dip them well in bread- crumbs. Fry also bread, cut as nearly the same size as possible. Heat the fillets in supreme sauce {see Supreme Sauce), but be especially careful not to allow them to boil in it. When serving, pour the sauce over the fiUets piled in the centre of the dish, but do not moisten the bread with it. Place the bread alternately with the fillets round the dish, and leave the sauce where it was poured in the centre. Time to lie in butter, half an hour; to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Fricasseed. — Take cold boiled fowl; cut it up, and simmer in gravy, onion, mace, lemon-peel, white pepper, and a bunch of herbs; a bit of knuckle of veal added will be an improvement; stew for twenty minutes. Mix up a bit of butter and flour; put this into the gravy, with a little cream, a dash of nutmeg, and salt to taste. When thickened it is ready to serve. Fowl, Fried.—Divide the remains of a cold fowl into convenient-sized pieces; shred two or three shallots very fine, strew them, with salt and cayenne, over the meat in a dish, and pour vinegar enough to steep the meat. Take out the fowl in an hour, drain, and fry, dipping each piece into batter; use lard for frying, and let the pieces be nicely browned. Garnish with rolled bacon and fried parsley. For the batter, mix half a pound of flour with half a pint of hot water to a cream-like batter, stir in two ounces of butter, and the whites of a couple of eggs beaten to a froth. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of fowl. Fowl, Fried (a la Malabar).—An Indian dish, highly recommended by an experienced cook. Fry in butter the several joints of a chicken, previously rubbed with curry-powder and a little salt. Make them of a nice light brown colour. Cut some onions into slices, separate them into rings, and again cut them into bits of half an inch. Fry them very slowly in a clean pan of clarified butter. If blackened, thej' wiU be spoiled. They should be of a delicate golden brown, and free, when done, from grease. When quite dry, sprinkle salt, and strew over the fried chicken. Serve hot and with a cut lemon on a plate. Time, twenty minutes to fry fowl. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Fowl, Galantine of.—Open a fine fowl down the back, bone, and then cut out the flesh in long narrow strips, without injuring the skin ; leave enough meat as a lining to prevent the skin from bursting. Fill in the space (first spread- ing out the fowl with the breast downwards) with a good forcemeat, about half an inch thick; then place the strips of fowl and strips of boiled tongue in layers, with a few truffles between if they can be had. Pill up -with alternate forcemeat and the strips of fowl, &c. Shape the fowl nicely, and enclose it in a delicate white cloth. Have ready in a stewpan enough stock to cover the fowl. Put with it a knuckle of veal and a calf's foot, and stew gently for three-quarters of an hour; then add salt and pepper, a clove, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew for another hour, keeping the lid of the pan closed. When the fowl is taken up, continue | to boil the stock till it will jelly. Clarify, and ' when cold ornament the galantine with it; cut ! in any form liked. If the fowl be cold, remove \ it from the cloth, glaze and cover with a mix- ture of bread-crumbs and grated roasted chest- nuts, and garnish with the jelly, and hard-boiled eggs in halves, alternately. Fowl, Grillade of.-Score deeply the legs of a cold roast fowl or of any kind of game ; and cover them thickly with a sauce prepared by mixing two spoonfuls of salad-oil, a spoonful of chutnee, a spoonful of anchovy, a spoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne. Let them lie in this for aja hour or two; then grill them over a strong, clear fire to a bright brown colour, and serve them very hot. Send either dry toasts or rusks or piquante sauce to table with them. Fowl, Guinea, To Roast.—This bird improves in flavour by hanging. Prepare and roast like a turkey ; the head is sometimes left on, and the breast larded. Serve with gravy and bread-sauce in ,a tureen. Time, three- quarters to one hour, according to size. Suffi- cient for four persons. Fowl, Hashed.—Cut up a roast fowl, orany part of one. Put the bones and trimmings into a stevrpan, with water to cover them; add a carrot or two, some sliced onion, previously fried in butter, a blade of pounded mace, some savoury herbs, pepper, and salt. When the goodness is extracted, strain and thicken with a small quan- tity of flour and butter. Put the fowl into a clean stewpan, pour the gravy over, and sim- mer for twenty minutes. A few minutes before serving add the juice of half a lemon. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time to stew bones, fee, for grayj, one hour and a half; to warm fowL twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive fowl, 6d. Fowl, Indian Dish of.—Put over the fire in a large stewpan two quarts of good veal broth, in which place a fowl, trussed as for boiling; add the following spices (pounded), tied in a muslin bag: of cloves, allspice, mace, and peppercorns, each a quarter of an ounce, and of coriander seed and ciimamon, half an ounce, -with forty cardamom seeds. Brown slightly in a frjang-pan with two ounces of butter, a pound of well-washed rice (Patna); and when the fowl is nearly done, add the rice, and stew until soft. Cut two or three middle- sized onions into slices, dredge with flour, and fry a nice brown colour, without breaking the rings. Have ready six slices of bacon curled and grilled, and a couple of eggs, boiled hard and quartered. Arrange the fowl in a ^yrn midal form upon a dish, smother with the rice, and garmsh with the sliced onion, bacon, and