LAM LAM ( 363 ) substituted for it. Time, about twelve minutes. The liver should be put in two or thi-ee minutes after the rest. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four persons. Lamb's Fry (a German recipe). —Soak 'the fry in cold water for half an hour. Dram it, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as wiU cover it, and add two or three green onions, a carrot, a bunchi of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Simmer verj- gently for an hour and a half, then pour both gravy and fry into a bowl, and let all get cold together. Drain and di-y the meat, cut it into neat slices, dip half of these into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, and, a few minutes before serving, fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned on both sides. Strain the gravy, put it into a saucepan, with an ounce of fresh butter rolled ia flour, a finely-minced shallot, three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Simmer for half an hour. Stir in all the meat which is not intended to be fried first, cutting it as small as possible, and, while it is heating, fry the sUces of liver, &c., in fat. Put these in a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, pour the sauce into the centre, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish with thin rashers of fried bacon. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Lamb's Head and Mince. —Scald, scrape, and -wash the head thoroughly, and put both it and the fry into a stewpan, with a large onion stuck with three cloves, two bunches of parsley, a bunch of thyme, a carrot, a turnip, a Tbay-leaf, half a dozen peppercorns, a table- spoonful of salt, and two quarts of cold water. Let them boil up quickly, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer gently for an hour. Divide the head, take out the tongue and brains, and fold the two halves in a cloth to drj'. Mince the heart, liver", half of the lights, the brains, and the tongue (first taking off the skin), very finely. Season with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and three or foirr grates of a nutmeg; put the meat into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of the strained gravy thickened with three ounces of butter rolled in flour, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cover the saucepan closely and simmer gently for haH an hour; stir every now and then, to prevent the contents sticking. Brush the head over with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs over it, and bake in a moderate oven, or place it before the fire, and let it remain until lightly bro"svned, basting liberally with good dripping. Place the head in the middle of a hot dish, put the mince round, and garnish with parsley. As a varia- tion, the brains may be made into cakos, instead «f being mixed with the mince, and the liver Iried with a few slices of bacon. The two may then be placed alternately roimd the dish. The inice of a lemon should be squeezed over the nead at the last moment. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Lamb's Head, To Prepare Brains for.—Wash and clean the brains thoroughly, let them lie in cold water for half an hour, then boU them in vinegar and water for six or eight minutes. After this they may be either minced with the fry, or cut into thin slices and placed between the halves of the head, or chopped small and mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and about a square inch of thin lemon-rind, finely grated. Work aU well together with a weU-beaten egg, have ready a pan of boiling fat, drop the mixture into it from a spoon in small round cakes, and fry them to a bright brown colour. Drain the fat thoroughly from them before serving. Time, three or foxir minutes to fry the cakes. Lamb's Pluck {see Lamb's Fry). rare Lamprey.—This not very wholesome, but re and rich fish, was a gi-eat favourite in ancient times, and is well known to the student of English history, as it was an attack of indi- UHFBET. gestion, brought on by eating of it too freely, which caused the death of Henry I. Lamprey is generally served either stewed or potted, and V cannot be eaten too fresh. It requires twice as much stewing as an eel, and should be partially boiled before it is either broiled or fried. Lamprey. Potted.—Take a dozen lam- preys of moderate size. Empty them, and cleanse them thoroughly from slime, by washing them in hot water, cut off the heads, tails, and gills, and take out the cartilage, and a string on each side of it, do'wn the back. Dry them well, and let them drain for several hours before proceeding further. Pound half a dozen blades of mace and a dozen cloves to a fine powder. IMix with them two ounces of white pepper, and three ounces of salt, and sprinkle this seasoning inside, and all over the lampreys. Curl the fish round, and lay them in a stone jar. Pour over them half a pound of melted beef suet, and two pounds of clarified butter. Tie three or four folds of paper over the top of the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. Keep look- ing at them whilst baking, and as the oil works up remove it. Lay them in a cool dry place, in the same jar in which they were cooked. When wanted for use, do not send the old but- ter to table with them, but put as many as are required into a fresh jar, let them heat in the oven, then cover them with fresh butter. They wiU keep good for four or five months. Time, three hours to bake. Probable cost, imcertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Lamprey, Roasted. —Take a largo lam- prey. Wash it thoroughly in warm water, to