CAL CAL (y7) cream or milk. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, some chopped parsley, and five or six small mushrooms. Make the meat hot in the sauce and serve. Probable cost of sauce, Is. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. CalTs Head la Sainte Menehould).— Tike the remains of a calf's head boiled in the usual way. Cut them into slices, and pour over these a sauce prepared as follows:—Dissolve an ounce of butter over the fire, and mix smoothly with it half a dessert-spoonful of flour; add a little salt and pepper, and either a quarter of a pint of water, or as much nicely-flavoured stock as will make the sauce as thick as cream. Sim- mer this sauce over the fire for a few minutes. Draw the saucepan to the side, let its contents cool for half a minute, and stir into these the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Cover the calf's head with the sauce and a thick layer of bread-crumbs. Pour over these a little clari- fied butter, and more bread-crimibs. Place the dish in a Dutch oven, brown the surface before the fire, and serve with sauce piquante. Time to make the sauce half an hour. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Calfs Head (a la Tortue).—This dish, which is elaborate and apparently difficult, will not be found to be beyond the power of any one who can please the eye as well as the palate, and, after having flavoured a dish judiciously, can aiTange it elegantly. Procure a large calf's head, properly prepared. Scald it with the skin on. Remove the brains, which must be boiled, chopped, and made into cakes, with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and egg. They can then be put on one side and fried in a little hot butter just before they are wanted. Boil the head in the usual way (see Calf's Head, Boiled) tUl it is sufficiently tender to allow the bones to be taken away without altering the shape of the head. Do not take away the tongue, as it will help to preserve the form. Take a large stewpan, melt three ounces of butter in it, and when it is brown, mix smoothly with it two table-spoonfuls of rice flour. Add just enough of the liquor in which the head was boiled to cover the meat, but before putting the head in, season the sauce with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, four large tomatoes stewed, and two glasses of sherry. Let it boil up, then put in the calf's head, and when this is hot it is ready to serve. Now comes the arrangement of the dish, and for this no clear directions can be given; it must be left to the taste of the cook, and depend greatly on the materials at command. The brain cakes, of course, must be used, and they may be heated in the sauce, as also may button mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of eggs boiled hardj sliced truffles, cock's-combs, real or artificial! On and about the head may be placed fried eggs, crayfish, prawns, gherkins, cut into balls and soaked in cold water a little before they are wanted. The ears may be scored and curled, and little stars or diamonds of puff paste fried in butter may be dotted about the dish. The truffles, prawns, &c., may be fastened on wnth silver skewers. It is generaUy found better to boil and bone this dish the day before it is wanted. Time to stew in the gravy, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Calfs Head (a la Tortue), another way.— The remains of a cold calf's head may be cut into small squares, warmed in a little good gravy, and ornamented in the same way as the last dish. Make the sauce rather thick, put the meat in the middle of the dish, and garnish as prettily as possible with forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard boiled eggs, and the whites cut into rings, gherkins, olives, and stewed mushrooms. Time to simmer the meat in the gravy, a quarter oi an hour. Calf's Head, Baked.—Take half a calfs head. Prepare it as if for boiling, removing the brains and tongue. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, then take it out of the water, drain it, and fold it in a cloth to dry. Prepare a breakfast-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, mix with them two salt-spoonfuls of salt, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, two dessert- spoonfuls of finely-shred sage, and the same of parsley. Brush the head over with beaten egg, and strew.the bread-crumbs, &c., over it; let it get dry, then repeat, the second time pouring hot butter over instead of brushing with egg. Fill the hollows of the eyes with crumbs. Bake the head in a good oven, basting it frequently with a cupful of sauce mixed with a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. The tongue and brains must be boiled separately, and cut into pieces, and a little time before the head is sufficiently baked, must be strewed with the crumbs and put into the oven to brown. Serve in a hot dish, with a little gravy round the meat, and oyster sauce in a tureen. Time to bake, two hours. Sufficient, half a head for four persons. Calf's Head, Baked (another way).— Boil half a calf's head in the usual way until tender; then drain it, pour a little hot butter over it, and strew over it rather thickly some grated Parmesan cheese, and put it in a good oven imtU it is nicely browned, which will be ia about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four persons. Calf's Head, Boiled (with or without the Skin).—Thoroughly cleanse a calf's head, remove the brains, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes, to blanch it. Take it out, and lay it in a deep saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; let it boil up, remove the scum very carefully as it rises, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until ready. Wash the brains in two or three waters, remove the skin and the fibres which hang about them, and let them soak for an hour in cold salt and water; pour that away, and put them into a saucepan with some fresh water to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added. Take the scum off as it rises, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Chop them rather coarsely, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of good melted butter, a table-spoonful of sage leaves chopped small, the same of scalded and fincly-niinccd parsley, a little salt and pepper, and th'd juice of half a lemon. Take out the