( 452 ) NAP MUT keeping back the sodiment. If to be ro-warmcd Bot tho basin in Ijuiliiiu: water. Probable cost of mutton, Is. por pound. Mutton Tongues.—Boil in good stock broth, having liivst Ijlunchod thoni, half a dozi.'u sheep's tongues until tho skin may bo taken oif easily, then split tliom nearly through without separating them. Put them into a stewpun ■with a little of the stock, a glassful of white wine, half a pint of small onions previously fried in butter, a little shred shallot, or if Uked a small bit of garlic, and some button mushrooms, with a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, and some pepper and salt. AVhcn tlio onions are tender, set tho tongues on a dish, roots inwards, and serve with a puree of onions or tui'nipa in the centre, and the small onions as a garnish round them. Time to boil, two to tlii-ee hours; to warm in sauce, fifteen minutes. Mutton Trotters.—Sheep's trotters are served on the continent plain boiled, ac- companied with oil and vinegar in a tureen, or they are boiled until tender, the bones care- fully removed, and the feet dipped into a batter before frying; theymayalsobe stewed, and, after boning, the space left by the bones may be filled with a forcemeat as follows :—Pound together a small quantity of cooked veal, and the same of bacon or fresh suet; mix these with finely- prepared bread-crumbs, add pepper, salt, nut- meg, and bind with beaten egg. Take some of the broth in which the trotters have been boiled, stew them in it thus stufted for about twenty minutes, adding a seasoning of shred shallot, and any store sauce. Put the trotters on a dish, boil the sauce rapidly for ten minutes, then pour it over the feet, and serve. Mutton Trotters (another way).—These require long and slow stewing, either in water with vegetables, carrot, onion, celery, a few cloves, and peppercorns, or with white sauce; they are sometimes) boned, and stuffed with force- meat, the trotters being first boiled long enough to slip their bones easily without injury to the sldn. Lay them so stuffed into a stewpan with a little of their own liquor from the boiling; when they have been stewed thus for half an hour, take out the trotters and reduce the gravy to a glaze, with which cover them, and serve. Before cooking, cut off the hoof, singe, wash, and blanch, for five minutes, in boiling water. Time to stew, three hours and a half. Mutton, Venison imitated with {see Gravy, To make Mutton like Vemson). Mutton with Mushrooms.—Peel four or five flap mushrooms, and wash, but di-am weU; take thin slices from an underdone leg of mutton, about a pound, season them with cayenne and pepper, a quarter of a grain ot the former mixed with a salt-spoonful ot the latter, and a tea-spoonful of salt; add a shred onion, and a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Lay half the seasoned mutton into a pie-dish, and on it place the mushrooms, which should be large enough to cover, with a piece of butter, a quai-ter of an ounce in etich. Fill the dish with the mutton, put l)it3 of butter over the top, and pour in a quarter of a pmt ot gravy from the roast or tho boiling of tho bone, to which a little pounded mace has been added. Cover with another dish, and bake slowly. Time, tliree-quai-ters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of tho meat. Suffi- cient for three persons. My Own Cakes.—BeatweU six fresh eggs, and remove the specks ; have ready baked eight ounces of flour. Put the flour into a bowl witli eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar, of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, and of citron, minced, each two ounces; moisten with the eggs, and flavour with thirty drops of tho essence of vanilla, and half a small wine-glass- ful of curacoa, first mixed with eight ounces of dissolved butter, and then with the ingre- dients in tho bowl, which must be beaten for several minutes. During the beating pro- cess add, sprinkling them in from time to time, three or four ounces of clean well-dried currants. Butter small fluted moulds, but do not fill them; leave 8i)ace for rising. The oven should be quick, and the cakes put in as quickly as possible. When nearly done, ice over the tops, flavouring the icing with a few drops of vanilla; make the icing by beating the white of an egg, with two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, add flve drops of vanilla. These cakes may be eaten hot or cold. Time, about twenty minutes to bake; ten minutes to beat thii mixture. N Nanterre, Gateau de {see Gateau da Nanterre). Naples, or Finger. Biscuits.—Take eight eggs. Divide the wnites from the yolks, and put them into separate bowls. Beat the yolks thoroughly, and mix with these half a poimd of finely-sifted loaf sugar, a smaU pinch of salt, two or three drops of almond, lemon, or any other flavouring, two ounces of best flour, and two ounces and a half of com-flour. Beat thoroughly to a thick smooth batter. Whisk the whites to a soHd froth, add them a little at a time to the rest, beating briskly all the while. Place them on a baking sheet, in fingers four inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, sift a little sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. They should not be allowed to brown. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Naples Sauce for Fish.—Take one- eighth of a pint of freshly boiled shrimps, remove the shells, and put them into an enamelled saucepan, and with them a large anchovy, freed entirely from skin and bone, two shallots finely minced, a dessert-spoonful of bruised capers, and three dessert-spoonfids of strained lemon-juice : a little piece of garlic not larger than a small pea can also be put m if the flavour is Uked. Stir over the fire for six or seven minutes, pour in a quarter of a pint of good stock, and add a small pinch of cayenne and half a blade of mace. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce with a piece of butter, the size of a largo egg, rohorl thickly in flour, and boU ten minutes longer.