MIL MEIi ( 418 ) have ready a sjTup made with the juioo from pulp and sooda, boil a pound of good loaf HUf«;ar with ovory half-pint of tho water, and lot it grow cold. Tut tlio piocoH of melon into an onamolliMl pan with tho cold Byrup, make it gnulually hot, and when ready to boil Himiner and skim for about twelve or fifteen minutes, when the finiit should be put into a bowl care- fully, and the syrup thrown over. For tluoo successive days pour off the syrup, and boil for two minutes on tho third and last time. Add an ounce of bruised ginger, arrange the melon in large wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour tho syrup over, and when cold tie down with bladder. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the SJTUp. Melon "Water Ice.—To make a quart of melon-water ice, skin and pound the whole of a ripe melon, and pass it through a sieve. Mix with a pint of juice a syrup made of a quait ot water and a pound and a half of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Freeze. Melts, Ragout of Pish.—Wash the melts in cold water, and then steep them in boiling water to which some vinegar has been added. Remove the melts from the water, dry them on a cloth, and cook for a quarter of an hour with parsley, chives, sal b, and pepper, in as much well flavoured veal stock as will ■Rarely cover them. A glass of white wine may be added if approved. Take out the melts when cooked, evaporate the liquid in which they were cooked to the consistence of a sauce, and thicken with two ounces of butter, mixed with a little flour. Before sending this dish to table, remember to squeeze the juice of a lemon into it. This ragout may also be prepared by another method. Cut into small pieces two onions, one carrot, and half a pars- nip, fry them in butter with parsley, chives, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When nearly ready add a Httle flour, and mix it well with the other materials. Stir in gradually three-quarters of a pint of unflavoured stock, or water, and half a glassful of white wine. Boil the materials in a stewpan over a steady fire until they are reduced one half. Now strain oflE the clear liquid, and simmer the melts in it for about twenty minutes. When about to send to table, mix with it the yolks of two eggs beat up with cream; simmcir the whole at a gentle heat, to thicken it; and add the juice of a lemon. Meringues.—Take of finely-powdered sugar one pound, mix it lightly and ex- peditiously with ten well-whisked whites of eggg_these should be to a firm froth. When the sugar has been all put in, fill a table-spoon with the paste, and smooth it with another spoon to the desired egg-like shape, always remembering that after tho sugar has been added to the white of egg, the batter should not be worked over much or it will be made soft and it will be difficult to mould the meringues. Drop them separately, and about two inches apart, on strips of firm white paper, and keep them well moulded with the spoon. Dust them with sifted sugar, let them lie for about two minutes, shake the loose sugar from them, place the strips of paper on baking boards, and buko the meringul^s in a moderate oven until of a light fawn colour; if they are too much coloured their appearance will be spoiled. When sufficiently coloured and a little cooled, pass a thin knife under eitch, to slip tlieiii from the pajjer, scoop out a little of the soft part, and put them back in the oven to dry. Before using fill tho hollow with whipped cream, and put two meringues togi:ther. To secure variety, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be sprinkled over the top, and the insides may be filled with firm jelly or a rich preserve. Serve piled high. Probable cost, 2b. Sufficient for two dishes. Meringue of Apples.—Take twelve apples (russet or Ribston pippins are tho Vjeet, as they are less watery tluin others), cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and slice. Plac« them in a stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour with six ounces 'of butter and a quarter of a pound of pounaed sugar. When cool, add two table-spoonfuls of jam, according to taste. Place the whole in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and cover thickly with the whites of three eggs, whipped to a firm cream with a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar. Lay this mixture on, sprinkle more sugar over, and bake. When done, the meringue should have acquired a pale yellow coloior. Time, about ten minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 7d., exclusive of jam. Merton Almond Pudding.—Whisk well the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of six. Blanch and pound to a fine powder six ounces of sweet almonds, add it to the eggs, together with rather more than half a poimd of sifted sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and the rind of one grated. Beat the ingredients until they are thoroughly blended; butter a pie- dish, put' in the pudding, and bake immediatel;/ for half an hour in a brisk oven. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Merveille Broth (Invalid Cookery).— Cut up a chicken, and put it into a stewpan with the broth from the boiling of a knuckle of veal and a calf's foot. Let the chicken simmer until tender, then take it out, and add to the liquor some salt, from two to three ounces of prepared Iceland moss, a bunch of sweet herbs, a pint of fresh-gathered garden- snails, and ten or twelve crayfish—both snails and crayfish to be first pounded in a mortar. Cover the stewpan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain, and use in cases of bronchitis and catarrh. Middleton Pudding. — Make a rich batter with two table-spoonfuls of flour, a pmt of now milk, a little salt, two dessert-spoonfuls of good moist sugar, and the whole of eight eggs, well beaten, first separately and then to- gether. Flavour with nutmeg and the grated rind of a lemon. Boil in a floured cloth, leaving space to swell. Serve with wine or <5thcr pud- ding siiuce. Time, two hours to boil. Prolwble cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Milan Biscuits.—Into a pound and a half of flour rub four ounces of butter, and add four ounces of sifted sugar Mix with two well-boaton eggs a wine-glas..ful of brandy and moisten tho wholn. When the paste is thinly