( 409 ) MAB following descriptions of mai-malade wiU be found under their respective headings:— AvPLB. Pbah. Ai'KicoT. Pine Apple. Bakhekry. Plum. Lemon. Quince. M-uiMALADE, Orange. Quince and Apple. Orange. Marmalade, Orange, Easy way of Making.—Select sound Seville oranges in the month of March or April, and look them well over to see that there are no bruises or blemishes. Put them whole into a large preserving-pan with plenty of water, and stew until soft, not for- getting to change the water two or three times. AVhen tender, pour off the water, peel off the rind, take away the pips, and weigh one poimd and a half of lump sugar to every pound of pulp, and add a small cupful of the water that the oranges were boiled in. Clear the syrup by boil- ing it for a few minutes before adding the pulp, cut the rind into thin strips, and when the pulp has simmered ten minutes, add the rind and give another boil for ten minutes. Time to boil the oranges, two hours, or until tender. Average cost, 7d. per pot. Marmalade, Orange, Grated.—Grate the outer rind of twenty oranges and one lemon, scoop out the inside, and carefully remove the seeds; bruise the pulp with about a quarter of a pint of water, through a sieve. Weigh the pulped oranges, and allow a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit. Boil them together with the grated rind, until it is tender. As the oranges are grated, these gratings should be thrown into ■water to prevent their becoming a mass, and afterwards added with the rest, when ready for boiling. Time, half an hour to boil. Marmalade, Orange, Pudding.—Beat up two eggs, mix with them a quarter of a pint of new milk, and a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar; beat together for five minutes. Prepare some bread-crumbs by rubbing the stale crumb through a wire sieve, rejecting the crust. Of these crumbs take a quarter of a pound, with rather more than their weight of good suet. Mix with the eggs and milk, and work the mixture until smooth. Fill a buttered tin mould with the mixture and alternate layers of orange marmalade, and bake in a moderate oven. The excellence of this pudding wiU greatly depend on the mixing of the ingre- dients. Time, one hour and three-quarters to bake. To beat the mixture, twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. One pound of marmalade is sufficient for this pudding. Marmalade, Orange, Pudding (another way).—Separate the yolks from the whites of half a dozen fresh eggs, beat the yolks in one basin, and half the whites in another. Mix together three or four ounces of clarified butter and a quartcr-])Ound pot of marmalade, vrith as much sugar as will sweeten, and then mix with the beaten eggs, stirring in the whites when the mixture has been well worked with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Bake in a buttered dish. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Golden Pudding.) Marmalade, Orange, Sauce.—Take two large table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, put it into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of sherry, another of water, and six lumps of white sugar. Boil until the sugsu- is dissolved, and thicken with arrowroot. Sufficient for a large pudding. Time to make, about five minutCu. Probable cost, lOd. Marmalade, Orange, Scotch.—There are many ways oi making this marmalade; but most agree in the proportion of sugar to fruit. "We give the simplest and most economical way:—Boil the oranges until they are tender, and can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. When this is done, cut them open, remove the seeds, separate the pulp from the rind, and clear off the coarse filmy parts from the orange, and some of the white inner part of the rind. Shred the rind, the finer the better, and some of it may even be pounded and added with the shreds to the pulp. Clarify the sugar, allow- ing one pound and a half of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the sjTup for ten minutes. Throw in the pulp, juice, and rind, and let all boil together till the marmalade jellies. Sweet oranges are sometimes used for marmalade, and only a small portion of Seville or lemon pulp and rind is added to flavour. Time to boil the oranges, from three or four hours; marmalade, thirty to forty minutes. {See also Orange ^Marmalade) Marmalade, Orange, Transparent. —Squeeze out all the juice from a dozen oranges, or from twelve China and twelve Se^alle. Strain, steep the pulp after the juice has been expressed, in a little water, rinse it well in it, and pour the water through a muslin with the rest of the juice. Boil together with a pound and a half of sugar, clarified, to each pint of juice. Skim and boil for about twelve or fifteen minutes. The rind of a Seville orange, rubbed off on a few lumps of sugar, will improve the flavour of marmalade. Marrow.—Marrow is the fatty matter which fiUs up the hollow of the shaft of the bones. Its nourishing properties are the same as those of fats generally. It is much relished by epicures, but it ought to be observed that it is digested with difficulty, unless thinly-spread on toasted bread, with the addition of salt, and used in moderation. Marrow Bones. — Saw the marrow bones into neat pieces, cover the ends with a paste made of flour and water, tie them in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Remove the cloth and crust, put a napkin on a dish, set the bones upright, and serve with dr\.' toast. The marrow can be scooped out an'-, spread on the toast with a sprinkling of peppei and salt, before sending to table; but it is at likely to get cold, that we suggest the above method. Marrow bones are bought generally with silver-side of the round of beef, and weighed with the meat. Marrow Bones {see Beef Marrow Bones). Marrow Dumplings.—Pour over two stale French rolls as much boiling milk as will soak them well. Squeeze them dry, and beat them until tJiey are smooth. Beat two and a