Ixxxviii cassell's cookery. a few years ago; indeed, in everything we see advances nowadays in the direction of hixury and extra\'agance. At what exact price good Champagne can Ije bouglit it is very difficult to say. The cheaper kinds vary iumiensely, some years being far Ijetter tlian otliera. Of the cheaper kinds, however, we shall have more to say when we come to consider the substitutes for first-class wines. I would, however, roughly state the mixumuni price at which any Champagne that is the pure juice of the grai)e can lie bought to be from 42s. to 48s. a dozen. A large quantity of wiixe Is sold in this country under the name of Champagne, much of which indeed comes from the Champagne district that really is Cluim])ague only in name. Whether this is made by using up the refuse of the grapes from which good Champagne is made, or using unripe grapes, rhubarb, gooseberries, or apples, I cannot say positively, but that the majority of cheap Champagne is unfit to drink at all there can be no shadow of a doubt. Considering the price any one has to pay for a bottle of Champagne at Epernay itself, it seems on the face of it absurd for persons to adver- tise Champagne in this country at 26,'3. a dozen. Were you, say in Paris or Berlin, to be ofiered a quart bottle of Bass's bitter ale for 4d., you would naturally feel that there was something wrong somewhere. As a rule, of course, the general principle holds good, that it is far better to give either good wine or none at all. This general principle, however, holds especially true with regard to Champagne, and I would specially appeal to those who are going to give Champagne -with a little dinner-party about to come off. Ask your conscience as to what is your real motive. Do you wish to please your guests ? or do you wish to show off]—i.e., is your motive in giving Champagne simply that of vying Avith or perhaps surpassing your neighbours ] If the former is your motive, and you can afford it, lay in some Champagne of a really good brand, 66s. to 72s. a dozen; have it cool, i.e., nearly freezing, a degree or two above freezing-point; and whatever you do, don't put ice in the wine if the Champagne is really good—and it ought to be at the price I have named—it is a barbarous custom. Next, let your guests have enough, I should say a fair allowance is a bottle between two pei-sons. Do not, however; open one "bottle, and then ask if anybody will have any more. If you do, every one will say, No, thank you." On the other hand, if you open a bottle first and take it round, every single one will have a second glass, and a good many a thii'd. Indeed, we feai', some woidd continue till they pronounced truly rm-al as "tural lural." If you cannot afford to give good Champagne and still wish to give your guests a treat, lay in a stock of Bass's strong Burton ale, A 1. I think it fetches nearly Is, 6d. a bottle. Let this be in good condition, and let the bottle stand upright in a moderate temperature for a week before it is opened. The ale is rather lugh coloured, Tjut when perfectly bright and sparkling, with a rich creamy froth on the top, a glass of it is worth all the cheap Champagne in the world put together. Indeed, there is as much difference between this ale and ordinary draught beer as there is between Chateau Lafitte and vin ordinaii^e. There are so many different brands of Champagne that it would be almost impossible to enumerate and criticise them all. I have before mentioned the Duke of Montebello's Champagne, which is a somewhat neglected wine, seeing that the i:arte blanche both of the maximum sec and ordinary sec is quite equal to any of the highest-class brands, and can be obtained at a cheaper price at present. If called upon to say which Champagne is entitled to take first prize, I should say Heidsieck s IMonopole. Pommeiy and Greno, or, rather, Pommery et fils, as I think the firm is