What cooks sliould do is to place the di'ipping-paa in front of the fire, with the diipping or lard in it, a quarter of an hour or more b^we they hang up the joint, and also to make it a rule not to hang the joint at all before they see sufficient dripping has run into the well of the diipping-pan to take up a good spoonful of melted ftit in the basting-ladle. With regard to time, tliis not merely dej^ends upon the size of the joint, but upon the fire and the time of year. Roughly speaking, a leg of mutton weighing eight pounds will take a couple of hours, and one of ten pounds two hours and a half For a large leg of mutton, a diSerence of nearly half an hour should be made for summer and winter—in winter, of course, the meat requiring a longer time. If the fire has been properly attended to, and the basting kept up during the whole time the joint is roasting, it will generally be found that the leg of mutton will be sufficiently browned without having recourse to flouring it and drawing it near to the fii-e. Should, however, the meat look light- colom-ed, draw the leg a little nearer the fire, and allow those parts that look lighter than the rest to brown by stopping the roasting-jack from going round. Should, however, it be necessary or thought desirable to use flour, do not let the flour fall in the dripping-pan in any quantity, as this, as we before pointed out, will have the efiect of thickening the gravy. In roasting a haunch of mutton, exactly the same process should be followed as in roasting a leg, only as the haunch is of com-se far lai'ger, it requires a much longer time to cook; consequently, the outside is very apt to get over- cooked and dried up before tlie joint is cooked through. Now a large haunch of mutton weighing over sixteen pounds will take four hours to cook; when, therefore, this sized joint has to be cooked, it will be necessary to protect the outside parts not covei'ed with fat with some artificial covering, such as thin slices of fat, or oiled foolscap paper. The best way of treatmg a fine large haunch of mutton that has been well hung is to cook it exactly in the same way as a fine haunch of venison, the proper method of cooking which is as follows:—First, however, remember that a haunch of venison, of all joints in the world, depends upon the attention that has been bestowed upon it during its hanging. Like the haunch of mutton, it must be kept in a cool and airy place, and also kept dry. Great care also should be taken in the early transport of the meat, to prevent its getting in any way bruised. A haunch of venison will keep much longer than a haunch of mutton, and is generally preferred when just on the turn towards getting what is called "high." It is, however, a great mistake to keep a haunch too long, so as when it is cut it has a strong gamey smell. The following is the best method of roasting a haunch of venison, and perhaps few recipes better illustrate that important principle of cooking, viz., " keep the flavour in." Fii-st, all the dry skin on the underneath part and skirt should be removed, and the shank-bone neatly sawn ofi". Then a piece of buttered paper should be put over what we may call the breast of the haunch, or that part where there is least fat, and where it is generally first cut. Then the whole haunch should be covered over with a flour-and-water paste half an inch thick, and outside this paste large sheets of oiled paper should be tied. The joint should then be hung up, or, better still, put in a cradle-spit, and roasted. The time a good-sized haunch of venison will take to roast varies from four CO five hours, though of course it would be useless to attempt to roast one