( 602 ) PAP PAN nutmog, imd grated lomou-rind. Pry a pancako ill tho usual way, and whon it is Bet, and lightly browned, put half a cupful of tho niincij in tho centre, and cover it by folding over tho ondH and tho sides; leave the pancake in the pan a few minutes longer to heat the moat, and as each rissole is tinishod, place it on an inverted siovo before the lire to drain, until the rest are ready for serving; dish tho rissoles on a hot napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time to fry, eight minutes. Probable cost, Is, 3d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Pancakes, Rose - coloured. — Mix three table-spoonfuls of liour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a little grated nutmeg, half a pint of milk, and four well-whisked eggs. Pai'e the outer skin from a medium-sized beetroot, which has been properly boiled. Cut it into thin slices, and crush it to pulp in a mortar, then stir it into the batter; fry the pancakes in the usual way, roll them neatly, and serve them on a hot dish with white cun-ant jelly, or preserved apricots, round them. Time, six minutes to fry the pancake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pancakes, Scotch.—Mix three table- spoonfuls of iiour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, two drops of lemon, and two drops of ratafia flavouring, a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and half a pint of new milk, or cream, if obtainable. Leave the batter in a cool place until it is wanted for use, then at the last moment stir in briskly the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Fry the pancakes in the usual way, but instead of turning them, brown the upper part with a salamander, or red-hot fire-shovel. When the pancakes are done, spread quickly over them a little jam or marmalade, roll them up, and then serve them on a hot dish, with powdered sugar sifted over them. If liked, half a dozen ratafias, or three macai-oons, may be crushed to powder, and stirred into the batter. Time to fiy the pancakes, five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pancakes, Snow.—Freshly-fallen snow may be used instead of eggs in making batter for pancakes. Care must of course be taken that the snow is as pure as possible. The batter should be made rather thick, and the snow mixed with each pancake just before it is put into the pan. As a general rule, it may be calculated that two table-spoonfuls of snow will be equal to one egg. Pancakes, Soup of (a German recipe). —Fry a couple of plain pancakes in the usual way, and be careful to put no more fat into the pan with them than is required to prevent them sticking. Drain them on an inverted sieve, or press them between two sheets of blotting-paper, to free them from grease, and cut them into narrow strips, about an mch long, or if preferred into small diamonds or mpiarna. Throw them into a sjuictjpan contfun- in.o: two pints of dear brown gravy soup, boiling hot; let them boil quickly for a minute or two, and servo. Time, ton minutes to fry tho pancakes. l*r(jbablo cost of pancakes, 4d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Pancakes, Stuffed.—Make a pint of batter, accorduig to tlie directions giv(!n for plain pancakes. Fry some tliin pancakes, and as each one sets, and becomes coloured, spread over it a layer of good veal forcemeat, then roll it rath(!r lightly, and ky it on a dish before the fire until the batter is finished. Cut the rolls into slices an inch thick, lay them on a buttered dish, and pour over them as much boiling gravy as will cover them. Grate a little nutmeg over before serving. If preferred, the stuft'ed slices of pancake may be egged, bread-crumbed, and fried again to a light brown, instead of being served with the gravy. Or they may be placed side by side in a buttered dish, some custard poured over there, and baked in a moderate oven until the custard sets. Time to fry the pancake, five minutes. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of tho gravy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pancakes, Windsor.- Mix four table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with a little cold milk. Add a pinch of salt, haK a small nutmeg, grated, six well-beaten eggs, six ounces of clarified butter, and a pint of new milk, or cream, if the latter can be had. Beat the mix- ture thoroughly, and set it in a cool place until wanted for use. No butter or lard will bo reqvured in frying these pancakes. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost, "when made with milk. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pancakes, without Eggs or Milk. —Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a small pinch of salt, two or three grates of nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. Make a smooth batter, by mixing with the flour, &c., very gradually, half a pint of mild ale, and beat it fully ten minutes. Fry the pancakes in the usual way, and serve them with moist sugar sprinlded between them. Time, ten minutes to fry each pancake. Probable cost, about 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pankail, Soup Maigre.—Shred a pound of cabbages, savoys, or bunch greens very finely, and throw them into a quart of boiling water, which has been thickened with oatmeal, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Add two ounces of butter or good beef dripping, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Or, partially boil and mash the greens, boil them for half an hour -with a quart of good stock or liquor in which meat has been boiled, and thicken the soup with powdered biscuit or finely- grated bread-crumbs. Probable cost, 8d. per quart. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pap aW.—This fruit is the produce of a bran(>hless tree found in the East and \\ est Indies, is about the size of an ordinary melon, and is not unlike a gourd in shivytc. It is more wholesome than palatable, but is often eaten both raw and cooked. Tho usual Umo. for gath(!ring it is when the fruit is half-grown. PapiUote Sauce, for Veal or Mut- ton Cutlets (a l.i MainUu-.on). -Shred haU