oasbeLl's cookehY. even omng to the butter in the tliickeniiig. Tliis must be Bkimmed off; but after all has been skimmed, by allowing the soup to simmer gently some mwv probably will be thrown iip. Some cooks have an idea that if when they have made some soup they allow it to get cold, and then remove all the fat that cakes on the top, that it impossible for there to be any more fat in the soup at all Tliis is a great fallacy easily made manifest by allowing the soup, after the fat has been removed, to boil up again. On its getting cold a fresh cake of fat will appear if the soup was at all gi-easy. Soup made from pig's head will some- what astonish a young cook on this point. We have already explained that the chief reasons for preferring brown thickening to flour and butter melted together are the appearance and the flavour —i.e., the latter causes the gravy not merely to look gruelly but to taste so. It will of course often happen, notwithstanding that good care is taken by the cook to what we may call look ahead, that at times gravy will be wanted in a hurry, and yet no brown thickening is at hand for the purpose of converting the thin stock into thick gravy. In tliis small quantity can be easily made in a very short time, which, though not as a rule equal in quality to that made in the way we have described, will at any rate be far preferable to the ordinary plain butter and flour. The method is simply to melt suflB.cient butter and flour together in a saucer, place the saucer in the oven, and occasionally stir it; the flour soon becomes baked, which avoids the grueUy taste; next, the flour soon becomes of a light fawn colour at the top, and after the saucer has been stirred a few times the whole qiiantity will assume the colour required. Indeed, some persons make brown thickening in large quantities in a pie-dish, and place it in the oven, taking it out at times, and stirring it. The stewpan is, however, we think, a far preferable method. We have in speaking of gravies confined our attention almost entirely to the thickening, which, as we have pointed out, is the chief point on which cooks break down. Of coiu*se, the exact consistency to which gravy must be brought is another important point which must be left entii*ely to the cook's judgment. The advanttige of having brown thickening ready is that only small quantities need be added at a time. The cook, consequently, has only to exercise a little patience, i.e., to stir the thickening well in, see that it is all dissolved and that the gi'avy boils gently, to avoid the common but unpardonable faidt of having the gravy too thick. Good brown gravy should be of the consistency of cream at the outside, and never thicker, if indeed so thick. It would be almost impossible to describe all the various methods of flavouring gravies in order to suit them to the dishes with which they are served, but we may mention here that there is perhaps no method of bringing out and at the same time adding to the flavour of good gi-avy equal to that of adding at the last moment a good slice of raw lean ham; and when we say lean we mean a slice absolutely destitute of fat. Another very good addition to gravy is part of the pulp of a fresh ripe tomato, especially when the gravy is intended for some dish with which tomato sauce would not be inapplicable, such as roast fowl When a fresh tomato cannot be obtained, a spoonful of tomato sauce ■s\ill answer just as well. We would, however, particularly caution cooks against the indiscrimi- nate use of Worcester sauce, as this particidar sauce is so powerful that when used for gravy, unless added with the greatest caution, it is apt to overpower the flavour of everything else. Again, the stewpan or small saucepan used for warming up the gravy can be rtibbed with a bead of garlic when the flavour of this latt«r some- ■wLat strong flavouring is not objected to