( 162 ) ORE ORE crumb of a French roll. Lot it stand to soak, then bout it well with a fork, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, one or two drops of ahnond Havouring, a table-spoon- ful of brandy, and the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Bake in a buttered dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, luilf an hour. Probable cost, 'is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cream, Rice.—Put a quart of new milk or cream into a saucepan with any flavouring that may be preferred, if lenion-rind, stick cinnamon, or lam-el loaves, the milk shoixld bo left stand- ing by the side of the fire a little while to draw the flavour. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a Uttle of the milk, and gradually with the whole of it. Add a well-beaten egg and stir the cream over a gentle fire till it thickens. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a glass dish as an accompaniment to fruit tart or stewed fruit. The cream should be stirred imtil cold to prevent a skin forming on the top. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of cream. Cream Sauce.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan with a dessert- spoonful of fine flour, and beat them smoothly together with a wooden spoon. When the butter is melted, add gradually half a pint of cream or new milk, and a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Let the sauce simmer over a gentle fire, and stir it constantly. If it becomes too thick, it may be thinned by the addition of a small quantity of milk or cream. The juice of a lemon may be added, if liked. This sauce may be used for turbot, cod, and other fish, vegetables, and white dishes. Time, a quarter of an hoiir. Probable cost, 4d., if made with milk. Sufficient for rather more than half a pint of sauce. Cream, Sherry.—Simmer a pint of cream, with an inch of stick cinnamon and two table-spoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar. Let it get cold, then add gradually three table-spoon- fuls of sherry. Strain, and serve in glasses. Strew a little powdered cinnamon on the top of each glass; stir it weU. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the cream. Probable cost, cream, Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for half a dozen glasses. Cream, Soda.—Put three pounds of loaf sugar, two ounces and a half of tartaric acid, and two quarts of cold water into a preserving- pan. Let it just boil, then add the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Let this boil exactly foirr minutes, stirring all the time. Strain, and when it is cold, add a small tea- spoonful of any flavouring essence that may be preferred. Keep the liquid in a bottle closely corked. When an agreeable refreshing summer | beverage is wanted, two table-spoonfuls of this may be put into half a tumblerful of water, and stirred briskly with a third of a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Drink during effervescence. Probable cost, 28. 2d. for this quantity. Suffi- cient, two table-spoonfuls for a tumbler. Cream, Substitute for.—Stir a dessert- spoonful of flour into a pint of new milk; simmer it, to take off the rawness of the flour; stir in tlie yolk of an egg well beaten, and strain the mixture through a fine sieve. Tim(;, a few minutes to simmer. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for rather more than a pint. Cream, Substitute for (another and nicer).—Boat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with half a pint of milk. Strain the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it until it is heated, but do not let it boil. Sweeten slightly. When cold, it is ready to serve. This may be used either for tea or tarts. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint. Creamed Tartlets.—Line some tartlet tins with good puff paste, and put rather less jam on them than is usual. Place a little good custard over the jam, and on the top of the custard an icing made by mixing a table-spoon- ful of sifted white sugar with the white of one egg whisked to a sohd froth. Place a little of this over each tartlet and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient, six or eight for a dish. Cream Toasts.—Cut a poimd of French roll in slices as thick as a finger, and lay them in a dish. Pour over them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and sprinkle some crushed lump sugar and cinnamon on their surface. When the pieces of bread are soaked in the cream, remove them, dip the slices in some raw eggs, and fry them bro\vn in butter. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cream, Vanilla.—Mix the well-beaten yolks of four eggs with a pint and a half of thick cream or new milk, add three table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and four or five drops of the essence of vanilla, and last of all, the white of one egg beaten to a firm froth. Put the mix- ture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of cold water, and let it simmer gently, stirring the contents of the jng all the time, until the cream thickens. It must on no account boil, or it will be f uU of lumps. Pour it into custard- glasses, and strew a little finely-sifted sugar on the top of each glass. Sufficient for nearly a quart. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity, if made with milk. Cream, VaniUa (another way).—Simmer half a stick of vaniUa in a pint of nulk for twenty minutes, or until the flavour is thoroughly extracted, take out the vanilla, and pour the boiling milk upon one oimce of isinglass, and stir it until the isinglass is quite dissolved. Mix it with the yolks of six eggs, put it in a saucepan, and stir it constantly over the fire till I it thickens, but it must not boil. Strain it in a large basin, and add to it half a pint of well- whipped cream, and a small glass of brandy. Pour it on a well-oiled mould, and set it on ice. To turn it out, dip the mould for a moment into warm water. If it cannot he set on ice, a little more isinglass may be added. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 28. 7d., exclusive of the bi-Tndy. Sufficient for one quart mould.