HAM ( 295 ) HAM up, take the hams, rub them well with common salt, and let them drain for three days. Dry them, and for two hams, weighing sixteen or eighteen pounds each, take a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Kub the hams thoroughly with this Duxture, put them into a deep pan, with the skin doNvnwards, and turn and baste them every day for a month, at the end of three days pom-ing a bottle of good vinegar over them. Drain, and dry them well, and, if they are to be smoked, hang them high in the chimney, to keep the fat from melting. " This," says M. Ude, "is superior to a Westphalia ham." Pro- bable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (Warwickshire method).— Rub two ounces of saltpetre well into a leg of pork, and leave it until the next day to drain. Put four quarts of river-water into a large stew- pan, with a peck of pale dried malt, a pound and a half of bay salt, two pounds and a half of common salt, one pound of treacle or moist sugar, and three ounces of sliced onions. Skim carefully, and boil for ten minutes, then pour the liquid through a sieve, hot, upon the meat. Turn the ham, and rab it well every day for three weeks, drain and dry it, and smoke it for three weeks or a month. The ham should be entirely covered with the pickle. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (West Country Method).— Take three or four hams weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds each. Let them hang for a day, then rub well into each one two ounces of sal prunella, two ounces of saltpetre, and one pound of salt. Put the hams into a deep pan, and turn them over and rub them each day for three days. Make a pickle by boiling together three gallons of water, four pounds of common salt, four pounds of bay salt, and seven pounds of moist sugar. Skim thoroughly, and when the pickle has boiled for twenty minutes, pour it hot over the meat. The haras must be rubbed and turned daily, and their relative position altered, the one at the top being put to the bottom, and so on. At the end of three weeks they must be drained and dried, and smoked, if practicable. This pickle -will be found excellent for beef, bacon, tongues, &c., and will keep for several months if it be boiled and skimmed each time it is used, and kept closely corked. Salt and treacle should be added also to make up for the strength evapo- rating. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured with Hot Pickle.—Rub a ham weighing about eighteen pounds with an ounce and a half of pounded saltpetre, and an ounce and a half of brown sugar. Leave it until the next day, then make a hot pickle, by putting one quart of strong beer or porter into a saucepan, with two pounds of salt, half a a pound of brown sugar, an ounce of black pepper, an ounce of allspice, and a small piece of sal prunella. Pour this, when boiling hot, over the ham, and lot it remain for three weeks, rubbing in twice or three times everj' day. Drain and dry it, and, if possible, smoke it for a fortnight. A ham cured in this way has very much the flavour of a Westphalian ham. Pro- l>ablo cost, Is. per pound- Ham. Essence of, for Gravy {see Gravy, Essence of Ham for). Ham, Flavouring a.—The flavour of a boiled ham is much better, as we have already said {see Ham, Boiled), when one or two carrots, turnips, onions, a little celeiy, and a bunch of sweet herbs are boiled in the water with it. There is no waste in this, as the liquid may afterwards be used for soup. The ham is also more succulent if it is left uncut until cold, and not taken out of the liquid for an hour after it comes oflP the fire. It must not, however, be left in until quite cold. Many persons soak it in -vanegar and water, instead of water only, and think it is improved thereby. Ham, Fried, with Eggs.—Cut the ham into slices of a uniform thickness, and, if it is very hard and salt, soak it for eight or ten minutes in hot water, then drain, and dry it in a cloth. Cut oflE the rind, put the slices in a scrupu- lously clean cold frying-pan, and turn them two or three times during cooking. Put them on a hot dish, and if the fat is in the least discoloured, poach the eggs separately {see Eggs, to Poach). Break the eggs, taking care not to break the yol^s, and slip them into the pan. Gutter the whites over the yolks with two spoons, to shape the eggs like a ball. Take them up with a slice, drain them from the fat, and place them on the ham. Serve as hot as possible. Time, seven or eight minutes to fiy the ham. Probable cost, Is. per pound, if a whole ham be bought; Is. 2d., if purchased in a smaller quantity. Sufficient, a pound of ham and six eggs for three persons. Ham Fritters.—Take the bone of a ham from which no more slices can be cut, and pick off every part of the lean meat, and the same quantity of fat. Mince it finely, and with one pound of mince mix two eggs, a cupful of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Make a thin custard with two eggs and a quarter of a pint of milk. Cut a roll into neat little rounds, and put them into the custard to soak. Take them up with a slice, and put them into a frying-pan, with some hot butter. When they are lightly browned, take them out, spread the mixture thickly over them, strew some grated crumbs over the top, and fry them three or four minutes in butter. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity, exclu- sive of the meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ham, Garnishing and Ornament- ing.—The most usual way of finishing a ham when it is not glazed is to draw oflE the skin carefully, dredge bread-raspings all over the fat, and put the ham before the fire to become brown and crisp. Fasten a frill of white paper round the bone, and garnish with parsley or cut vegetables. When served hot at a large dinner, it should be glazed {see Ham, Glazing of), or the rind, while warm, may be carved in any orna- mental device. White paper must be placed round the knuckle. Aspic jelly is a favourite garnish for cold ham {see Ham, with Aspic Jelly). If the skin is not ornamented, it should be preserved to lay over the ham when it la