PREFACE, The art of Cookery is every day receiving increased attention : and no wonder. Life is made all the brighter by satisfactory feeding; and he is a dull philo- sopher who despises a good dinner. The pleasures of the table—as has been pointed out by the celebrated Dr. Kitchiiier—are enjoyed by us more than a thousand times every year, and whoever thoroughly realises that fact, will need neither argument nor eloquence to persuade him to an experimental acquaint- ance with all possible cooking processes and all possible recipes. But the strong point of good cookery is not its gratification of the palate, but its influence on health. This is a matter of far greater importance than is generally thought. It is no exaggeration to say that the explanation of many fatal disorders is to be found in nothing but badly-cooked and ill- assorted viands. Our households would enjoy better health, and be better able to withstand sickness when it came, if pains were only taken to have food well chosen and properly made ready. Every housekeeper, then, will g^ve the subject of eating and drinking a prominent pla-ce in her daily round of duties. A desire to aid in the diffusion of knowledge on such an important topic induced the Publishers to project a Work on Cookery which would be at once the largest and most complete collection of recipes ever produced in this country. Experience and energy were brought to bear on the undertaking, and the result is now before the reader. The practical part of the following work has been preceded by a complete treatise on the "Principles of Cookery."'' This has been written by a gentleman in every way entitled to speak with authority, thus making our Dictionary a marked contrast to many publications of a similar kind. " Too many,^-* says a distinguished chef, " who have presumed to write upon the art and science of Cookery are far from possessing any real or adequate knowledge of what they so recklessly attempt to teach.-" By reading these " Principles of Cookerythe cook will become possessed of the whole alphabet of her art. In the arrangement of the recipes the dictionary form has been chosen as the most convenient. Cross-references have been inserted where they were needed, and it is believed that any article in the work may be found without