COD ( H3 ) CGC and found pure and sweet. It should bo sti-ained through a .fine sieve, and the nut squeezed dry. Cocoa-nut Paste.—Drain the milk from a large cocoa-nut, pare off the brown skin, smd shred the white part as finely as possible; put a pound of sugar into a saucepan with a cupful of water, the shi-ed cocoa-nut, and if it is per- fectly sweet, the milk of the cocoa-nut. Let the mixture boil gently imtil the syrup seems likely to return to sugar, when the whisked whites of two eggs may be added. Turn the paste on a dish and dry at the mouth, of a slow oven. Cocoa-nut Pound-cake.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, add gradually one poimd of fine flour, one pound of sifted sugar, two tea-spoonfids of baking-powder, a small pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely- chopped lemon-rind, the white part of a cocoa- nut tinely-gi-ated, foui" eggs well beaten, and a cupful of new milk. Butter some square tins, and Une them with buttered paper, spread the mixture in them about an inch and a half in depth, and bake in a good oven. When they are sufficiently baked, spread some sugar icing over them, and return them to the oven for a minute or two to dry. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 28. 3d. for this quantity'. Sufficient for two or three small cakes, or one large one. Cocoa-nut Pudding.—Mix two eggs well beaten with a cupful of new milk and the milk of the cocoa-nut, if the latter is quite sweet. Take off the brown skin of the nut, and grate the white part as finely as possible, llix it with three table-spoonfids of finely- grated bread-crumbs, thi-ee table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter beaten to cream, six ounces of Muscatel raisins, and a tea- spoonful of lemon-rind thinly sliced. Beat all well together, pour the mixture into a well- buttered pie-di^, and bake it in a rather slow oven. Turn it out, and serve with sifted sugar strewn over it. This pudding may be either baked or boiled. Time to bake, one hour and a half; to boil, three hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cocoa-nut Pudding (another way).— Take a large, fresh cocoa-nut, remove the brown skin, and grate the white part as finely as pos- sible ; mix very thoroughly a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and the grated cocoa-nut; when they are quite smoothly mixed, add a pint of new mUk or cream, five eggs well beaten, a tiny pinch of salt, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a good oven. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Grate finely the white part of a cocoa-nut, and boil it gently, stirrin"- it well, in a cupful of water, in which bis been dissolved its weight, before boiling, in sugar; press it through a sieve ; add a cupful of thick cream and the beaten yolk of an egg ; put the mixture on the fire for a minute or two, but do not let it boil after the egg is added, for fear it should curdle. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, cocoa-nut, 4d. or 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized puddiag. Cocoa-nut Soup.—Grate verj- finely the white of a fresh cocoa-nut, and simmer it gently for an hour in some good stock, allowing a' quarter of a pound of cocoa-nut for every half gallon of stock. Strain the liquid, and thicken it with some ground rice; half a pound of ground rice will be enough for this quantity. Season it with a little salt and cayenne, and a small tea-spoonful of mace. Just before serving, di-aw it from the fire, and add a cupful of thick cream. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. per quart. Sufficient, this quantity for nine or ten persons. Cocoa-nut Soup (another way).—Boil the stock and the cocoa-nut toge.ther, as in the last recipe. Thicken the soup with ground rice, being careful to mix it smoothly with a little cold stock or water before putting it into the boiling Liquid. Add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, two table-spoonfuls of soy, a nut- meg grated, and a little salt and cayenne. Just before serving, add a tumblerful of sherry. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. per quart, exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Cocoa-nut Spongecakes—Take a largo fresh cocoa-nut, remove the brown sldn, and grate it on a perfectly clean, bright grater as finely aa possible; beat the yolks of six eggs, and be sure that they are perfectly fresh; stir in gradually, and mix thoroughly, half a pound of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the yolks of the eggs. Beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, then add, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of flour, and the grated cocoa-nut, and last of all, the whites of the eggs whisked till fii-m. Line square tins with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake the cakes immediately, in a brisk oven. Do not open the door of the oven until the cakes are baked. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is, 4d. Sufficient for one moderate-sized cake, or two small ones. Cod.—Cod comes into season about tho beginning of October, when other large fish are going out. If the weather is cold, it is then very good; it is at its very best about Christ- mas, but goes off from the end of February or the middle of March. It is essentially a winter fish, and is not to be had in the hot months of the year. The best cod are those which are plump and round at the tail, the sides having a ribbed appearance, with yellow spots upon a pure sMn, In order to ascertain if the fish is fresh, press the finger into the flesh, and if it rises immediately and feels firm and stiff, it is fresh. It is much better not to cook a cod whole. Tho upper part is so much thicker than the tail that the latter would be boiled to rags before the rest was cooked. The head and shoulders are generally boiled; the rest may be fried or stewed in slices. Epicures look out for the sound, the glutinous parts about the head, and the tongue. A little salt should be rubbed