BEE Bee ( 60) be cut of a moderate thicknoas, and very evenly. Cut the lean and the fat in one slico, and if more fat is desired it sliould bo taken liorizon- tally from the side. Jioforo proceeding to servo, a slice of about a quarter of an incli in thick- ness should be cut from the top, so that the juicy part of the moat may be obtained at once. Beef (u la Braise).—Hang a rump of beef for tivo or six days; remove the bone, and lard it freely with small pieces of ham or bacon, rolled in a seasoning comi)osnd of an onion minced very fine, a little garlic, thyme, parsley, pepper, and suit. After the ham or bacon has been rolled in the seasoning, add to what is left of the latter a pint of vinegar, a pint of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of salad-oil. Steep the beef in this mixture for one night. Before cooking, wrap it in paper, and roast it on a cradle spit, basting it well all the time it is before the fire. Serve with brown gravy thickened, and garnish withhorse-radish scraped, and boiled carrots. Some cooks also add a little lemon-juice, and slices of pickled cucumber. Probable cost of beef, lid. to Is. per pound. Beef I'Ecarlate).—Prepare a pickle ac- cording to the following instructions:—Take a small quantity of sweet herbs, crushed juniper- berries, basil, pepper, cloves, and saltpetre (the latter in proportion to the quantity of meat, say one ounce to every four or five pounds of beef), six oimces of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Rub this mixture into a piece of rump of beef, weighing five or six pounds, and put it into a salting-pan, where it should remain eight days, during which time it must be frequently turned. Soak the meat for two hours in cold water before using. Tie it up in a clean cloth, and put it into a stewpan, in which has been previously placed equal parts of Burgundy and water, with a few carrots, onions, parsley, and chives. Simmer for five or six hours. When cold, pour a little of the liquor it has been stewed in round the dish, and serve. Pro- bable cost for five pounds, 7s. 6d. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Houssard).—Remove all bones and gristle from a piece of beef, of about four pounds weight, beat it with a rolling- pin, and lard it with ham or bacon. Lay it, with a seasoning of chopped onion, pepper, and salt, iuto a stewpan with a tight-fitting cover, and put it into an oven, or by the side of the fire, and let it steam in its ovra gravy. Take care that it does not bum, because, as there is no water it will be liable to do so unless care- fully attended to. With a strong heat it wiU be ready in two or three hours, and will be found excellent. To be served with the gravy from the meat. Cost of meat, lOd. per pound. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 1.—Any fleshy part of beef or veal will do for this dish; but, of course, the finer the meat is the better will be the stew. A piece of the rimip or buttock of beef we should consider most suitable; of veal, either the fillet or the gristly part of the breast. About six or seven pounds is the usual quantity prepared. Rub the meat well with some mixed spice, salt, and a little flour, and put it in a stewpan, into which ha* been previously plac(;d souie thin slices of streaked bacon. As it is desiraljle tlutt the bacon sliould not touch the bottom of the stew- pan, it would be better to place a few skewers in it for the bacon to rest on. Cover the meat also with slices of bacon, some good gravy, a])Out a i)int and a half, and a httlo vinegar. Stew very gently for two hours, then add a seasoning of cloves, mace, pepper, muahroomb, and a dozen small onions, half roasted. Cover the saucepan tightly down, and simmer until tender. Put the meat in a deep dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve very hot. Should veal be used, the mushrooms should be omitted, and lemon-peel substituted. Time to simmer, from three to four hours. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 2.—Take eight or ten poimds of beef (the rump or buttock), or the same weight of a breast of veal. Divide it into neat pieces of three or four ounces in weight. Put it into a large stewpan with four ounces of good beef dripping; but first make the dripping hot, and flour the meat. Add a couple of large onions, minced very fine, dredge flour, and stir with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, or imtil the contents of the pan be thick; then pour in about one gallon of water. Do this gradually, stirring all together. Bring it to a boil; then skim, and add one drachm of ground black pepper, two of allspice, and two bay-leaves. Set the pan where it will stew gently for about three hours. When the meat is tender, serve. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 3.—Make a forcemeat of a French roll steeped in milk, half a poimd of chopped veal, and six oysters. Remove the bone from a rump of beef, and fill up the hole with the forcemeat. Roast the meat before a clear fire for an hour, take it off the jack, insert in the top some dried and pickled mushrooms, adding mushroom powder to the forcemeat. Put it in a stewpan with two quarts of stock, a large onion stuck with cloves, and two carrots cut in slices. Stew until the beef is tender. Put the meat on a dish; thicken and strain the sauce, add to it more mushrooms, a glass of sherry, oysters,- and sippets of fried bread. Pour it over the beef, garnish with a few warmed gherkins, and serve. Time to stew a piece of beef five inches thick, five to six hours. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef (a la Mode), No. 4. Bath Recipe.— Take three povmds of beef (any part wUl do, but the rump is the best), cut away all fat, and trim nicely. Take a few cloves, a tea-spoonful of black pepper, a blade of mace, and a salt-spoonful of allspice. Poimd them thoroughly, and add liaH a small tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, some minced sweet herbs, and shalot. Put these ingredients into a dish, pre- viously rubbed with garlic, and cover them with vinegar. Cut fat bacon into long strips, and lard the beef, on both sides if necessary, first dipping each strip of bacon into the vinegar, and well covering them with the seasoning. Put