VRl NCI PLES—BKER. XCIJI tact, good beer can now be obtained so cheap in almost all parts of the country, that ale is now very rarely brewed at home. Fii-st, I would call attention to the importance of always having beer in cask; by so doing purity is generally ensured, and the bad custom of sending servants, especially women servants, to the public- house is avoided. Good, sound, excellent ale can always be got at threepence a quart; an eighteen-gallon cask costing 18s., and, indeed, very good beer can be bought in cask still cheaper. Now, the beer sold in, I fear, too many public-houses, at the rate of threepence a quart, is adulterated, and often has the effect of increasing rather than allaying thirst. Were the general public to know the secret of the cheap public-house beer that has been doctored with not always such harmless ingi-edients as treacle and sugar, they would probably make gi'eater efforts to obtain their beer direct from the brewery itself. The working poor are necessarily obliged to drink beer, and it is very much to be regretted that they so rarely have their beer in cask. The fact is, they have not sufficiently acquired habits of self-control, and too often a cask in the house proves a temptation too strong to be resisted. On this subject, I recollect an occurrence some time ago that illustrates the <lifficulty to which I have alluded. A poor woman was exclaiming what a monstrous; shame it would be to close all the public-houses on Sunday for the whole day, saying that the poor would have to go without any beer with their Sunday's dinner, which, as a rule, was the only really comfortable meal they got. I asked what difficulty there would be in getting in a gallon jar of ale on Saturday night, which^ if well-corked down, would keep well till the following day? her reply being— " Keep, sir ! Lor' bless you, my old man would never go to bed on Saturday night till he had finished it!" The argument was perfectly sound; and some men must necessarily be treated like children. Indeed, it is as cruel to leave an opened bottle of gin in some persons' way, who are as a inile perfectly honest, as it would be to- leave a child three years old alone in a room with a pot of jam. One of the most important points to be remembered in the management of beer is to ensure its being bright. Beer should always be kept in a cool place, though in winter care should be taken that it is not exposed to too severe a frost. A cask of beer should always be ordered in at least a week before it is wanted, in order to give the beer time to settle. Beer is often allowed to get flat and dead through the carelessness of servants, who forget to put in the vent-peg; consequently a tap requiring no vent-peg is to be preferred. When a cask requires tilting, a very little common sense will often prevent the whole of the beer left in the cask from becoming cloudy. First, it will be found advisable to have a beer-stand that will tilt by simply turning a handle. However, when bricks or lumps of wood are used for the purpose, bear in mind to first choose your time: say you have drawn enough beer for supper, tilt the cask then, so that you have the benefit of the night's settling. Too often, from carelessness and procrastination, servants will draw off" the beer till the last drop runs level, and will then tilt the cask while they draw a jug full, letting the cask drop again, thereby clouding the whole of the remainder. Whenever you have room for two casks in your cellar, side by side, always act as follows. Have two casks in together, and directly one runs out tap the other, and on the same day order in a fresh cask. By making a fixed rule of this description you will always ensure your ale being bright. With regard to bottled ale this same quality of brightness is even more important than ale on draught. The difference not merely in appearjtnce but in taste between a bottle of Bass's ale that sparkles like cham-