OYS OYS ( 497 ) white sauce; season with pepper and nutmog, and serve hot. Time, half an hoiu-. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sauce of, White.—Open a dozen oysters. Do this very carefully, so as to preserve every drop of their liquor; beard and halve or quarter them. Mix an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour smoothly together in a stewpan. Add the oyster liquor, a pinch of cjiyenne, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, and as much milk as wiU make the quantity up to thi-ee-quarters of a pint. Stir the whole gently over the fire until the sauce is smooth and thick. Put the oysters into a heated metal strainer, and while in this hold them in boiling water for two or three seconds ; put them in the tureen, pour the sauce over them, add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and serve. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Sauce of, White (anotherway). —Open and beard a dozen oysters, as in the last recipe. Put the beards into a stewpan with the liquor, a quarter of a pint of white stocK, half a dozen peppercorns, an inch of thin lemon- rind, and a bay-leaf, and let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Mix an ounce of butter smoothly with an ounce of flour, add the strained Uquor, a pinch of salt and cayenne, a glassful of sherry or madeira, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the oysters. When these ingredients are hot through, di-aw the saucepan to the side, and stir in very gxadually the well- beaten yolks of three eggs. Mix tiioroughly, and serve immediately. If the sauce is allowed to boil after the oysters are added, they will be hard and leathery. Pi'obable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Sausages of,—Large stewing oysters are the best for making sausages. Open two dozen oysters, and mince them finely. Mix with them six ounces of grated bread-crumbs, which have been soaked for a few minutes in the oyster liquor, and six ounces of finely-shred beef' suet. Season the mixture with a salt- spoonful of powdered mace, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and moisten it with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs. Make up the mixture into small sausages, about three inches long, flour these well, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve piled high on a napkin, and garnished with parsley. This preparation is better for being made two or three hours before it is wanted. Sometimes a small quantity of minced veal is added. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry the sausages. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Scalloped.—Scalloped oysters ought properly to be served in scallops of silver or earthenware; but when these are not at hand, a small dish will answer the purpose, or the deep shells of the oysters, which have been thoroughly cleansed. Oysters dressed in this way should be small, plump, and juicy; large, coarse oysters would not be at all nice. Open and beard two dozen oysters, and cut each one into two. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix it smoothly with two ounces of flour, the strained oyster-liquor, and a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Add half a tea- spoonful of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate or two of nutmeg, and stir the sauce over the fire till smooth and thick. Let it cool for a minute, then mix in the well-beaten yolks of tAvo eggs, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the oysters. Keep stirring over a gentle fire for four or five minutes, then put the mixture in the shells, cover them thickly with finely- grated bread-crumbs, moisten with clarified butter, place them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let them remain until they are equally and lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time, altogether, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to Ss. per dozen. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Scalloped (another way).— Open and beard two dozen oysters. Put the liquid into a saucepan, with an inch of thin lemon-rind, half a grain of cayenne, and half a blade of mace, and when it boils strain it over the oysters, and let these remain in it until they are quite cold. Mix three ounces of fine bread- crumbs with half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg and a little salt and j^epper. Drain the oysters from the liquid, and season them with a little pepper. Butter the scallop-shells, and sprinkle some bread-crumbs over them. FUl them up with alternate layers of oysters, seasoned bread-crumbs, and small pieces of butter; pour in a little of the oyster liquor, and finish with, a thick layer of bread-crumbs, softened with butter. Put the shells into a quick oven, or into a Dutch oven, before a brisk fire, and bake until they are lightly and equally browned. Serve very hot. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Scalloped (a simple method).— Open and beard a dozen oysters, and wash them in their own liquor. Scrape the deep shells, and cleanse them thoroughly. Put an oyster in each one, season it with salt and pepper, and sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly upon it. Put some little pieces of butter on the top, arrange the shells in a dish, and bake in a quick oven, or in a Dutch oven, before a brisk fire, until they are lightly and equally browned. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. Oysters, Soup of. —Scald two dozen oysters in their own liquor; beard them, out them into halves, and put them into a soup tureen. Place the beards into a stewpan with a pint of white stock or milk, and the oyster liquor; let them boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain the liquid, let it stand a few minutes^ and before using pour it gently away from the sediment which wiU have settled at the bottom of the vessel. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix two ounces of flour smoothly with it, add the stock in which the beards were boiled, and half a pint of thick cream. Season the soup with a pinch of cayenne a Uttlo grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of