FOW ( 224 ) tggs. Time, half an hour to atow fowl; half an hour to stow fowl ami rice. Probable coat 5s. SiitHcient for four or live persons. ' Fowl Jelly (in cakes).—Take ten pounds of the leg of beof, two cow-heels, a knuckle of veal, a couple of old fowls, and the triniuiings of any thing at hand, with the bones, &c., broken in pieces; cover with water, ajid boil gently, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, im onion, a bit of lemon-peel, and some whole peppers, and salt to taste. Boil six hours; cleai- olf the fat, strain, and let the mixture cool, ■when every piirticle of gx'easo must be removed. "When cold, put it over a quick fire, and boil till the jolly clings to the wooden spoon, when it may be poured out into a buttered tin. When quite cold, cut it into, strips, and store carefully in a tin box, to be dissolved for gravy or soups. Fowl Klosse.—Chop three or four ounces of suet, also the solid parts of an uncooked fowl; soak three large slices of light bread in milk, and press the moisture from it till quite dry. Put the whole into a mortar; season with salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and lemon-peel. Pound all together to a smooth paste, with two well-beaten eggs. "When shaped into Kliisse, boU. in clear soup. These Klosse may be made of veal, instead of fowl. Fowl Liver, Garnish.—Take the livers from four fowls; let them be quite sound, and of a good colour. Blanch them in boiling water, and then stew in gravy; add a bunch of thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt, half a tea-spoonful of each, with a small glass of white wine. When they have stewed a quarter of an hour, dry and use as a garnish. Time to blanch, ten minutes. Fowl, Marinaded.—Out a fine fowl into joints, and then into neat pieces. Ponr over them, on a dish, equal quantities of oil and lemon-jnice, a small wine-glassful of each. Shred a couple of shallots, and lay a bunch of herbs and some sprigs of parsley about them; season with a dessert-spoonful of pepper mixed. The fowl should be skinned before being put into the marinade, and well drained when removed from it. Fry in egg and bread-crumb?. Strain as much of the marinade as will be required for gravy. Make it hot, and add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same of brown roux. Serve with the fowl in the centre, and the gravy poured round it. Time, six hours to lie in marinade ; to fry, twenty minutes. Fowl, Matelote of.— Brown two ounces of butter with a little flour in a stewpan. Stir in half a pint of brown sauce, and add a parsnip and the red part of two carrots, cut into lengths of half a finger, a dozen small onions, blanched and peeled, a bunch of herbs, parsley, a gill of claret, salt, and pepper. Cut up a couple of chickens or a large fowl into neat pieces; put them in a clean stevrpan with bouillon enough to cover them, and simmer for half an hour; then remove them to the other stewpan with the vegetables, adding a little bouillon if needed. Stew for ten minutes longer, then dish the fowl and reduce the sauce. Pour it hot over the fowl,' iand serve with pieces of fried eels or cray- fish. Sufficient for five or &ix persons. Fowl, Minced (a la B6chainel).—Put a small cupful of bechamel sauce, and the same of wliite stock, into a stewpan, with the 8<jlid white meat of a cold roast fowl, minced; stir well until it boils up, take ofl' immediately, and put it into a dish. The mixture may, if liked, be put in the centre of a dish, and have, the sauce poured upon it and potato croquettes arranged around it. Time to simmer in the sauce, two or three minutes. Sufficient for a difih. Fowl Pie, Mock Strasburg.—This dish is bettor wh(;n made with game, but when ex- pense is considered, rabbits and pigeons may be substituted. We, however, give the recipe for game. Bone a pheasant, fowl, and a brace of jjartridgos, and cut the meat into pieces about two inclies in length, and a quarter of an inch in thickness. Allow to every pound of meat half a tea-spoonful of salt, a good pinch of pepper, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and four truffles. Put the meat, flavour- ing, and truffles in a covered baking-dish, arranging, in layers, first meat, then season- ing and butter, then truffles, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Next prepare the gravy, by stewing down the bones of the fowl, pheasant, &c., with a very small piece of garUc, two shallots, some nutmeg, a tea-spoon- ful of salt, one clove, a spoonful of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of shen-y, and a pint of water. Stew this unto, the gravy is reduced to half the quantity, when strain, and pour it on the meat. Cover carefully, and return it to the oven for two hours; if left uncovered until cold, the butter will rise to the surface. If a covered baking- dish is not at hand, a stone jar wiU answer the purpose, though, in the latter case, the meat would require to be turned out of the jar before sending to table. Probable cost, ISs. to 20s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Fowl Pilau.—Stew a yoimg fowl in half a gallon of good veal broth, with the following spices fastened in a muslin bag:—Of cloves, all- spice, mace, and peppercorns, each a quarter of an ounce, coriander seed and cinnamon, half an ounce, and forty cardamom seeds, all pounded. Soak one pound of good rice in water for ten minutes, di-ain and fry it with two ounces of butter until slightly browned, then add it to the broth, and stew \mtil the fowl is tender, and nearly without moisture. Have ready six slices of bacon, curled and grilled, and a couple of onions, sliced and fried a nice brown. Pile the fowl in the middle of a dish with the rice over it, and garnish with the bacon, fried onions, and hard-boiled eggs. Cut into quarters. Time, half an hour to stew without rice ; half an hour with it. Probable cost, 4s. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Poele for.—This is a broth to boil fowls in, used by French cooks and made as follows :—Take two pounds of ham and two pounds of veal, cut into small pieces; add two caiTots and two onions, also cut, one pound of butter, the juice of four lemons, a pinch of salt and pepper, a couple of laurel-leaves, a sprig of fennel and thyme, and a spoonful of boiling stock to injiatiMi the whole with; stow until all