tRlisClPLES—STOCK. X2LV STOCK. In describing the general principles upon which all good cooking depends, it will be seen that we have dwelt at some length on thickening, and have described the proper method of making brown thickening, or brown roux, and white thickening, or white roux. We will next proceed to discuss the proper method of preparing stock, and the two chief stock sauces, viz., white sauce and brown sauce, which requii-e in their composition the white roux and brown roux, respectively. It may possibly be thought that a description of the proper method of making stock should have preceded the description of the tliickening ; bear in mind, however, that in preparing any dinner, the thickening should be made before the stock, and also, tha/ whereas ° there is but one method to be pursued in making thickening, thert are necessarily many different ways of preparing stock. We have purposely, there- fore, impressed upon our readers the great importance of making thickening in the way we have described, as upon it will, to a very great extent, depend the whole character of the soups, gravies, sauces, &c., the recipes for which are given in the present work. We will, therefore, presume the cook to have at any rate mastered this part of the subject before we proceed to discuss such an extremely important branch of cooking as stock. Stock is necessarily a branch of cookery approached by every one with the slightest pretension to any knowledge of the art with a certain amount of preconceived opinions. We would, by way of preface, however, remind our readers that the better the cooks, probably the more willing will they be to admit that they have much to learn. Cooking in its higher branches is a science, and the most scientific cook that ever served up a Parisian banquet could probably learn something new from the ignorant savage who chews strange herbs to help him to digest the meat that his intellect has not sufficiently expanded to enable him to cook. Still the instinct of the animal, rather than the reason of the man, has advanced him at least one step towai'ds a higher civilisation, and in his knowledge of the herbs he has something to impart that wise men would gladly learn. There is an old story that will, however, bear oft repeating, of one who, on his death-bed, in thinking over the discoveries of science—discoveries that he himself had done more than any in ages past or present to advance—observed, that after all he felt like a child who had been picking up pebbles on the shore of the vast ocean of knowledge. It is in such a spirit that all should approach a subject such as cooking—none so good as not to be able to learn. But we must commence our stock, and as it is obvious that the method of preparing stock for say the Grand Hotel, and for a family consisting of only two, must be widely different, we will jfirst describe how to make stock in large quantities. First, common stock, then the two principal stock sauces, brown and white, the first being used to make the other two. As, however, we are going to mention somewhat large and startling quantities, we would remind you that it is no greater extravagance to use 100 pounds weight of meat in making stock for 500 persons, than it would be to use the very moderate amount of two povmds of meat for a dinner of ten persons. In some large foreign hotels, where 700 pei-sons sit down daily to the table d'hote, the preparation of stock, in quantities which, forgetting this fact, would appear ridiculous, becomes an every-day necessity. Besides, it is easier to learn principles from the wholesale preparation of any article than from the preparation of such small quantities, that