( 345 ) KAIt ;ruii floiir and put them into a deep earthen jar, with an onion stuck ^vith three cloves, a sliced carrot, a shallot, half a tea-spoonful of pounded celery- soed, tiod in muslin, half a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of bread toasted liard and brown, and half a blade of mace. Pour in three pints of water; tie several folds of paper over the top of the jar to prevent the steam escaping, and bake in a moderate oven for aix hours. Strain the givivy. Let it get quite (.-old, so that the fat may be effectually removed, and before serving add a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a table- spoonful of port. A moderate oven is the best. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Julienne Soup.—Take three carrots,three turnips, the white part of a head of celery, three onions, and three leeks. Wash and dry the vegetables, and cut theui into thin shreds, which should be not more than one inch in length. Place the shreds in a stowpan with two ounces of butter and a small pinch of pounded sugar, and stir them over a slow fire until slightly browned. Pour over them three quarts of clear stock {see Stock), and simmer gently for an hour, or until the vegetables are tender. Carefully remove the scum and gTease, and half an hour before the soup is done enough, add two lumps of sugar, with two pinches of salt, and two pinches of pepper, if required, two cabbage let- tuces, twelve leaves of sorrel, and twelve leaves of chervil, cut in the same way as the other vegetables, after being immersed in boiling water for a minute. Boil half an hour longer, skim carefully, and serve. Send bread fried in dice to table, and serve as hot as possible It must be remembered that quick boiling would thicken and spoil this soup, which ought to be a clear brown. To save time there is an instru- ment to be bought called a rasp, which is specially adapted for cutting the roots rajfidly into the .proper form. Julienne is seasonable for nine months of the year only. In January, Febrijary, and March the carrots, turnips, and leeks required for it are hard and stringy. There are, however, vegetables to be bought ready cut, preserved, and dried, but these are much inferior in flavour to fresh vegetables. In summer time French beans, green peas, and asparagus tops may be put in, but they must be boiled separately and added a few minutes before serving. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, about 1 s. 6d, Sufficient for eight or ten persona {see Vegetables, Dried-). Julep, Mint (see Mint Julep). Julep, Pine Apple.—Put a sliced ripe pine-apple in a glass Dowl, add the juice of two oranges, a gill of raspberry syrup, the same of maraschino and old gin, a bottle of sparkhng moselle, and about a pound of ice in shaves. When mixed, serve in flat glasses. Jumbles.—Rub the yellow part of a fresh lemon upon some lump sugar. When dry crush it to powder, and with half a pound of sugar mix half a pound of fine flour, two eggs tho- roughly whislced, and three ounces of dissolved butter. Make them up into a paste, and add, if required, a table-spoonful of thick cream. Drop the batter on buttered baking-tins from the point of a fork, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes or more. The jumbles are done enough when crisp and lightly browned. Pro- bable cost, lOd. The above ingredients aie sufficient for about a dozen cakes. Jumbles (another way).—Stir together till of a light brown colour a pound of sugar and half a pound of butter. Add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, essence of lemon or rose-water to taste, flour enough to make them sufficiently stiff to roll out. RoU out in powdered sugar, cut the paste into strips about half an inch wide and four inches long. Join the ends to- gether so as to form rings, lay the jumbles on flat tins that have been buttered, and bake them in a quick oven. Jumbles (anotherway).—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, add a pound and a quarter of sugar, two pounds of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and two or three di-ops of the essence of lemon. Dissolve a smaU piece of saleratus in a httle boiling water, and mix this with half a pint of milk. Beat it up with the flour, &c., and when well mixed drop it in small cakes from the end of a fork, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. The above ingredients are sufficient for about four dozen jumbles. Jumbles, Almond (see Almond Jumbles) Jumbles, Apricot (see Apricot Jumbles). Junket, Devonshire {see Devonshire Junket). K Eale Brose.—Take an ox-heel. Cleanse it thoroughly, and pour over it five pints of water. Bring it to a boil, remove tlie scum as it rises, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Meanwhile take two large handfuls of greens; cleanse, and free them from insects, then shred them very finely. Put them into the broth; and when sufficiently cooked, stir half a pint of toasted oatmeal into a little of the fat broth. It should be stirred with the handle of a spoon, and very quickly, so as not to run into one mass, but to form knots. Add it to the rest, with salt and pepper to taste, let aU boil up to- gether, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kale, Sea, Boiled.—Let the kale lie in cold water for half an hour, then wash and trim it, and tie in small bunches, put these into a good quantity of toiling wa^-er with some salt in it, and let the kale keep boiling until tender. Lift it out, drain the water from it, and send it to table with melted butter or white sauce. Time, about a quarter of an hour; but it may be boiled a few minutes longer, if liked well done. Probable cost, lOd. per basket. Sufficient, four or five heads for each person. Kale, Sea, Stewed in Gravy.—Wash and trim the kale, and tie it in small bunches. Put it in boiling salt and water, and let it boil softly for six or eight minutes; then take it out, drain it, and put it into a saucepan, with as much good brown gravy as wiU cover it. I,et it remain until tender, and serve with the gravy