BEA ( 74 ) BOB nmahroom ketchup; lay a coating of butter over the bones, then the mixture, and rub it well iu nud broil rather brown over a clear fire. ' Bordelaise SaucG (a la Gouffe).—Add to half ft pint of Sautemo a table-spoonful of shallots, blanched and oliopped, and a very small <inr\ntity of mignonette pepper, lleduco it, by loihng, to a quarter of a pint, then add a pint .of Spanish sauce, and boil for five minutes, witli the addition of a table-spoonful of chopped privsloy. (See also Phin'cii'les, p. xxii.) Bottle-Jack and Screen.—The usual method employed for roasting moat is to hang the bottle-jack on tlie movable bar placed for its reception on the front of tho mantelshelf: to suspend the wheel from the jack and to hang the moat by a hook from the wheel. A screen, oitlicr entirely made of tin or lined with it, is th?n put in front of the fire to keep in the heat, and the jack is wound up two or three times wliilst a joint is being roasted. By a modern improvement the bar can be altogether dispensed with, and the jack fastened above the screen, which is so made that the heat will be con- domod as much as possible. Those who do not v/i.sli to go to the expense of a bottle-jack, but who nppreciate the difference between a roasted joint and a baked one, may find an economical sabititute for the bottle-jack in the chimney BOTTLE-JACK AKD SCREEN, screw-jack, which may be fastened uj^on any inantclshelt' when wanted, and unscrewed when done with. It requires a little more watching than tho ordinary' bottlc-jack, but if a key be hung upon the hook with six or seven thick- neases of worsted wound round it, one end of which is fastened to tho meat-hook, the twist- ing and untwisting of the worsted cord wiU cause a rotatorj' motion like that produced by the more expensive bottle-jack. Probable cost: Bottlo-jack, from 73. Gd. to 12s. 6d.; screen, from £1 IOh. to £3 lOs.; IjottTo-jack and screen m one, 12s. 6d. to 26s.; chimney screw-iack Is. Gd. to 28. J > Bouille a Baisse, or Bouillabesse. —Any kind of liwli may be used for this ditili ; gui-nard, haddock, whiting, mackerel, carp, red and grey midlet, soles, plaice, or lobsters, all do admirably for a bouillabesse. Chop two onions and put them with a piece of butter in a stewpan, and let tliem brown without burning, then arrange the fish (which lias been previously cut into small piecds) in the pan, allowing half a pound of fish for each person. Add a small quantity of the best olive-oil, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, two or three tomatoes, or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on tho point of a table-knife, and, lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. AVhen ready to ser^'e, throw in a handful of chopped parsley. This quantity of flavouring is intended for six pounds of fish. On the Continent it is usually sent to table in two separate dishes, that is to say, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish, but we think the whole would look better served on a large or in a deep entree dish. Brain Cakes.—Soak and pick the brains, boil for a quarter of an hour, and blanch them. Pound them to a paste with a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of mace and cayenne, salt, pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Make the paste into balls about the size of a florin; when flattened, dip them into egg and fine bread-crumb, and fry brown. They are appropriate as a garnish for calf's head a la tortue. BraiSGj To.—^To braise meat is to cook it in a braisiere, or closed stewpan, so formed that live embers can be held in the cover, and the heat necessary for cooking communicated from above as well as below. As there is BBAISUrO-PAK. no evaporation the meat imbibes the flavour of the vegetablesj &c., with which it is cooked, and care should be taken that those are in accordance witli the nature of the moat and added in proper quantities. Before putting the meat into the pan, cither lard it or cover it \dth thick slices of fat bacon. ^Vhen sufficiently cooked, take it out and keep it hot, strain the gra\-y and free it entirely from fat (tliis is most effectually done by plunging the basin which contains