BUG BUL (83) and -well buttered, or they can be eaten with treacle or syrup if preferred. Buckwheat Cakes (another way).—Put a large table-spoonful of yeast into a hollow made in the middle of one quart of buckwheat, and work it into alight dough with warm water; cover it up wai-m by the fire to rise for three houi-s. When risen enough, the top will be cracked; then get ready the griddle—it should bo hot, and well buttered or greased. The cakes may then be proceeded with. Convey with a ladle as much batter as may be wanted, that is, according to the size of the cakes; when done on one side turn, and, when quite baked, butter them as they are removed from the griddle. A fresh supply of butter is required for every cake, but it is sufficient if the griddle be well rubbed with it. Lay them one on the other and divide into quarters. Buckwheat Cakes, Raised.—"Warm a quart of water. Stir into it a good table- spoonful of treacle and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix in enough buckwheat-flour (or oatmeal or Indian corn-flour) to make a stiff batter, together with a table-spoonful of good yeast. Let it stand to rise before the fire. Then bake on a hot plate, in iron rings, like muffins, or in a slack oven. Toast and serve the cakes hot with butter. Bullaces {see Damsons). Bullock's Brains,—Lay some slices of bacon into a stewpan, with onions, carrots, chives, and parsley; blanch the brains in luke-warm water, and put them in with equal quantities of white wine and stock broth, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stew gently for half an hour, and send to table with fried parsley. Bullock's Brains with Tomato Sauce.—Stew the brains as directed in the preceding recipe, and when quite ready to serve, cover with tomato sauce. Bullock's Heart (a la Mode).—Soak the heart for two hours in cold water mixed with a little vinegar; take out the arterial carti- lage and the coagulated blood left in it; fill the inside with bacon cut iato dice, seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Tie it round with tape into its original shape. Stew it in a saucepan, covered with broth, and haK as much cider, if to be had; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and as many onions and carrots as there is space for. Whenit has simmered gently for four hours, lay it on a dish, put the carrots and onions round it; let the liquor boil a few minutes longer to thicken, then pour some of it over the heart, and servo the rest in a sauce- boat. If preferred, flavour the latter with mushroom ketchup and a little red wine, which will give to the heart the flavour of hare. Probable cost, Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, To Roast. —Soak the heart as before, fill all the openings at the top, or broad end, with a stuffing composed of crumb of bread, chopped suet, parsley, pepper, and salt, moistened with an egg and a little milk; suspend with the pointed end down- wards. Baste liberally. The heart will have to be roasted from three to four hours, accord- ing to the size ; it should be well done. Send to table with beef gravy. Probable cost. Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, To Roast (another -way).—Soak the heart as before, and boil it for a while before roasting; it will be less indi- gestible, and will take away, to some extent, the grease so gei_erally complained, of. Before boil- ing see that it is perfectly clean, and all the un» necessary parts cut off. Put it into hot water, bring it quickly to the boil, and then simmer one hour and a half. Prepare a veal stuffiaig; fin up the cavities, fastening them with coarse strong thread. Baste imsparingly with butter, and roast before a moderate fire from one to two hours, according to size. Serve with brown gravy and red-currant jeUy. Probable cost. Is. 9d, to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Heart, with Onions—Pre- pare a stuffiing of three ounces of bread-crumb, two ounces of onion, parboiled and finely cut, half an ounce of powdered sage, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the heart as directed in preceding recipe. It should be served with good brown gravy and apple sauce. Time to simmer, one hour and a half; to roast, from one to two hours. Probable cost, Is. 9d. to 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bullock's Kidney, Pried.—Cut up a bullock's kidney into very thin slices, dust plen- tifully with flour, and season with pepper and salt. Place an ounce of butter into a saucepan ; as soon as it begins to melt, put the sliced and seasoned kidney to it; add a little cold water, just enough to prevent burning, or, if to be had, use cider instead. Add a table-spoonful of ketchup. Keep shaking and stirring over a gentle fire, but do not let it come to a boil; if it does, the kidney will be hard and tasteless. The secret of success consists in not letting it cook too much, too fast, or too long. Lay bits of toasted bread round the edge of a dish; with a spoon put the kidney in the middle, give the gravy a boil up, and pour over it. Some cooks garnish with sliced lemon, and stew in port or champagne; for the latter, the cider is not a bad substitute, and is more easily obtained. Bullock's Kidney, Fried (anotherway). —Soak a bullock's kidney for an hour or more in warm water. Cut it into thin slices, drain, dry, and season with pepper and salt, and dredge them lightly with flour. Fry gently till they become a light-brown colour; put the sKces into a saucepan, doubling them a little one over the other. Make a gravy with the butter in the pan, and a small quantity of flour to thicken. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar if liked, with a tea-spoonful of sugar, stew the kidney in this till quite tender. Time to fry, from eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 5d. Sufficient for three persons. Bullock's Kidney, Stewed (an econo- mical dish.—Take a bullock's kidney, remove the hard core, cutting the kidney itself as little