( 273 ) GRA QRA one of thyme, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of chopped lemou-riud, a bay-leaf, throe or four cloves, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, a thick crust of broad, toasted brown and hard, but not burnt, six peppercorns, and half a salt- spoonful of sjilt. Pour over these ingredients a broiikfast-cupful oi water and a breakfast- cupful of beer. Simmer gently for half an hour, strain, and serve. Thicken with flour and butter, if required. Probable cost, 5d. Suffi- cient for a pint of gravy. Gravy, Essence of Ham for.—A ham bone is always considered a valuable addition to the stock-pot, but it may be used to greater advantage by making of it an essence with which to flavour sauces and gravies. Cut from it very carefully all the little pieces of meat, Poimd these in a mortar, and put them into a saucepan with the bone broken small, a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and a pint and a half of good beef stock. Simmer gently by the side of the fii-e for a couple of hours, or until the flavour is thoroughly ex- tracted. Put the liquid into a bottle, and set aside for use. Probable cost, about 3d., ex- clusive of the ham bone. Sufficient for a pint of essence. Gravy for Boiled Meat.—Boiled meat is usually sent to table with a little of the liquid in which the meat was cooked. When a varia- tion is desii-ed, haK a pint of the liquid may be thickened with a little flour and butter, and flavoured with a table-spoonfnl of finely- chopped pickled gherkins or walnuts, and a dessert-spoonful of minced parsley. A tea- spoonful of mustard mixed with a small quantity of vinegar may then be added. This sauce should, of course, be served in a tureen, not put on the same dish as the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient, haK a pint for four or five persons. Gravy for Curried Fish.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a small egg in a saucepan, and fry two sliced onions in it until lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and mix with them a pint and a half of good stock, and, if the flavour is liked, two sharp apples, pared and cored. Simmer gently until the onions axe sufficiently tender to be pressed through a sieve, and, after this has been done, boU once more, thicken the gravy with a table-spoonful of flour and a table-spoonful of curry-powder, mixed with a little cold water, and add a pinch of salt. Boil for half aii hour, and just before serving add two table-spoonfuls of good cream. Time, an hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost, 5d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy for Cutlets.—Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, and, when melted, fry two sliced onions in it until they are lightly browned. Add gradually one pint of good stock, half a dozen peppercorns, two sprigs of parsley, three or four cloves, md a crust of broad toasted brown and hard on both sides, but not burnt. Simmer gently for one hour, then strain, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour. Add salt ' to taste, and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup. A little browning may be added, if necessary. If no stock is at hand, a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract may be dis- solved in some warm water and used instead. Probable cost, 44. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Cutlets (another way).— After the cutlets have been fried, lift ithem out of the pan, and put them in the oven on a hot dish. Iilix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a table-si)Oonful of the fat from, the cutlets, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is lightly browned; add haK a pint of boiling water, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce,, or ketchup, or a table-spoonful of finely-minced gherkins, walnuts, capers, or any favouiite pickle. When a rich sauce is wanted, a wine- glassful of port may be added. Serve in a tureen. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for on& pound of cutlets. Gravy for Ducks.—Put the giblets into- a stewpan with a large onion, two or three sage-leaves, a salt-spoonful of salt, haK a salt- spoonful of pepper, and two pints of stock.. Simmer gently for two hours. Strain the' gravy, thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, boil once more for a quarter of an hour, and. serve in a tiireen. A glass of port or claret is an improvement. Probable cost, 2d., exclu- sive of the wine. 'Sufficient for a ])int and. a half of gravy (see mso Gravy foi* Groose or Duck). Gravy for Fish Pies, &c.—Take any common fish that you may have, or can easily obtain, such as eels, flounders, or pike, or a mix- ture of one or two kinds. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan. To two^ pounds of fish put a pint and a half of water, a little pepper and salt, two or tkrce bunches of parsley, a sprig of marjoram, and the same of thyme, a blade of mace, and a crust of bread, toasted till brown and hard. Simmer gently for an hour or more, then strain; thicken the^ gravy with a little flour and butter, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, or two or three anchovies pounded. If brown gravy is- wanted, the fish must be fried before it is stewed. The probable cost depends upon the- price of the fish, which is very fluctuating. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of gravy. Gravy for Fowls, Cheap.—Take two ounces of lean ham, cut them into dice, and fry them in a very little butter until brightly bro-WTied.. Pour over them gradually haK a pint of stock* and add six peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and haK a sUce of bread, toasted brown and hard, but not burnt. Simmer gently for three-quar'erd of an hour, strain, add a pinch of salt, if necessary, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 4d. (See Gravy made without Meat for Fowls.) Gravy for Game.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a small egg in a saucepan, and mix with It very smoothly a table-spoonful of floui-.