( 106 ) CAP CAP of scalded pai-slov, and four or five button muslu-ooms cut small and fried. Mix these weU together with a little pepper and salt, and add the yolks of two eggs. Stuff the capon with the mixtui-e, and roast it before a clear fire. Serve with sauce flavoured with chopped i?herkins. Time to roast, one houi-. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Roasted with Truffles.— Clean, wash, and peel some truffles, and cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick; fry them in butter, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put them inside the capon, fasten some buttered paper over it, and roast it before a clear fire. This dish is frequently served without any sauce, but, if liked, a little may be sent to table with it made of good melted butter, flavoured with a quarter pf a pound of truffles, peeled, and pounded in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter, and pressed thi'ough a sieve. Time to roast, one houi- or more. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. each. Capon, Stewed.—Blanch and boil, as if for cui-ry, three-quarters of a pound of Patna rice. While it is cooking, fry three sliced onions in three table-spoonfuls of butter or di-ipping, and with them a fine capon cut into joints. When fried, put the fowl and the onions into a stewpan, with sufficient nicely-flavoured stock to cover them, and let them stew gently until tender. Mix a little of the gravy with the rice, season it, then spread it on a dish, and lay the stewed capon upon it. Thicken the gravy, and pour a little of it upon the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, about an hour. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, Stewed (a la Fran^aise).—Draw, and truss for boiling, a fine capon. Rub it over with a little lemon-juice, and put it into a stew- pan -with some slices of bacon under and over it. Cover it with some nicely-flavoured stock, salted and peppered, and additionally flavoured with an onion stuck with three or four cloves. Let it stew gently for an hour, then take it up, strain the gravj^j and thicken it with a little flour and butter, and add a glass of white wine. Pour the gravy round the dish, and serve. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. Capon, Stuffed and Roasted.—Shred four ounces of suet very finely, and mix with it half the quantity of ham, half a poimd of bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of marjoram and thyme, two or three grains of cayenne, a little salt and pounded mace, and an inch of lemon-rind finely chopped. When these are thoroughly mixed, bind them together with two eggs, well beaten. StufE the capon with this forcemeat, cover it with but- tered paper, and roast it. Baste it frequently. Serve it with some good brown gravy and bread-sauce in a tureen. Time to roast, one hour. Probable cost, from 28. 6d. to 4s. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Capon, Stuffed with Chestnuts- Pare a dozen largo sound chestnuts, and blanch them like almonds. Stew them very gently for twenty minutes. Drain and pound thejp.; then mix with them the liver of the capon boiled and finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of fine bread- crumbs, a piece of fresh butter the size of a small egg, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoon- ful of salt and the same of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolks of two eggs. Fill the capon with this mixture, cover it with oiled paper, and roast it before a good fire. When it is sufliciently cooked, brush it over with beaten egg, dredge fine bread-crumbs over it, and brown it. Serve with half a pint of good melted butter, to which has been added three chopped gherkins. Probable cost, 28. 6d. to 48. each. Time to roast, one hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Capon, To Truss for Boiling—Pick the capon very clean; singe it if necessary. Cut off the neck and the claws, and di'aw the bird, being very careful not to break the gall- bladder, as it would make anything that it touched very bitter. Preser^^e the liver and the gizzard. Fasten back the skin of the neck with a skewer. Press the feet down closely, with the fingers loosen the top skin of the legs, and put the legs under. Put the liver and the gizzard in the pinions, then pass a skewer through the first joint of the wing, the.middle of the leg, and through the body, and fasten the wing and the leg on the other side with the same skewer. Turn the wings over the back, fasten a string over the legs and the skewer to keep everything in its proper place. Make a little slit in the apron of the fowl, and put the parson's nose through it. Capon, To Truss for Roasting.—Cut off the claws and the first joint of the wings, and make a slit at the back of the neck just large enough to admit of the bird being dravm. Preserve the liver, and the gizzard, and be care- ful not to break the gall-bladder. Turn the wings under, bring the legs close, twist the head round with the bill to the breast, and pass a strong skewer through the wing, the middle of the leg, the liver and gizzard, the body, th» head, and the wing and leg on the other side. Tie the legs close to the apron with som-i strong thread. Truss the bird as firmly as pos- sible, and place a piece of oiled paper over the breast before roasting. When it is intended to stuff the capon, the head may be cut right off, and the skin of the neck skewered over. Capsicum, Essence of.—To one pint of brandy or rectified spirits of wine add one ounce of the best cayenne pepper. Let it infuse for three weeks, then pour off the clear liquid, and bottle for use. It is very convenient to have this essence for the flavouring of sauces, &c., as the taste is equally and quickly diffused by stirring a little -with some boiling sauce. Cayenne varies so much in strength, that the quantity to be put with each pint of sauce or gravy must be regulated by the taste of the cook. Capsicums, Pickled.—Capsicums may be pickled either green or red. They are finest and ripest in September and October-