CUL CUB ( 169 ) drain ofE the liquor. Place the slices of cucum- ber in a jar, -with a little salt between each layer, and tie them up. Before using them rinse them in fresh water, and dress them with pepper, oil, and vinegar. Time, twenty-four hours to stand in salt. Probable cost of cucum- bers, 6d. each, when in fuU season. Cullis, or Rich Gravy.—Put one pound of undressed ham or bacon, about a quarter of an inch thick, at the bottom of a good-sized stewpan. Place upon it two pounds of lean beef or veal, a large onion stuck with three cloves, a largo carrot sliced, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seeds tied in muslin, or a few sticks of celery, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and two blades of mace. Pour over these a breakfast- cupful of water. Cover closely, and simmer gently for half an hour, when the liquid will have nearly all boiled away. Turn the meat once or twice that it may be equally browned on both sides. Pour over it three pints of boiling water or stock, and simmer gently for three hours. It is usual to allow a pint of water to every pound of meat stewed. Thicken the gravy with a table-spoonful of brown thicken- ing, or with two small table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water or cold gravy, and added gradually to the contents of the stewpan. Simmer twenty minutes longer. If too thick, a little water should be added to the gravy, if not thick enough it should be stewed a little longer. Strain the gravy, and before using it lift off the fat, which will cake at the top when the liquid is cold. This gravy will keep a week, but in hot weather it would be weU to boil it up once or twice. This preparation has various names: Cullis, Espag- nole Sauce, Savoury Gravy, and Brown Gravy. It is used for Sauces, Morels, and Truffles. Wine and ketchup may be added if desired. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. for this quantity. SufiEi- cient for one pint and a half. Cullis, or Rich Gravy (another way).— Take the bones of a large leg of mutton, or of a large piece of beef. A ham bone or a little bacon rind may be added. Break into small pieces and put into a large saucepan with five pints of water. Bring to a boil, and let it simmer very gently for five hours, being careful that it keeps on simmering slowly all the time ; then strain it. Skim it carefully. If there be time, leave it until the next day, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Return it to the sauce- pan, and put with it a large onion stuck with three cloves, a bay leaf, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seed tied in a muslin bag, or a few sticks of celery, a large carrot sliced, a bunch of savoury herbs, two tca-spoonf uls of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a blade of mace. Simmer these gently for two hours; strain; stir into the mixture a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat and a little browning (see Colouring). Thicken it with a table-spoon- lul of brown thickening, or with from one to two table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and added gradually to the contents of the saucepan, and let it simmer twenty minutes longer. If too thick, a little water may be added; i£ act thick enough, stew it a little longer. Strain it from the vegetables before putting it aside. This gravy will keep a week, but in hot weather it would be well to boil it up once or twice. Time, eight hours. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Cup Puddings.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream; mix smoothly with it four ounces of fine flour, four table-spoonfuls of milk, a small pinch of salt, four ounces ol picked and dried currants, and four ounces of finely-sifted sugar; beat all well together; butter seven or eight cups or small basins; a little more than half fill them, and bake them in a good oven. Turn them out, and serve with wine sauce, or a little jam. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Allow one for each person. Cup Pudding. Invalid Cookery—• (another way — a wholesome, easily-digested pudding for an invalid).—Mix a small tea- spoonful of flour and a tiny pinch of salt very smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of cold water; pour over it, stirring all the time, a tea-cuTNful of boiling milk, and when it is cold strain it, to insure its being perfectly free from lumps, and add one fresh egg well beaten. Sweeten with a small tea-spoonful of sugar, pour it into a buttered basin, and bake it for twenty minutes. Turn out to serve. If it be allowed, a little sherry is an improvement. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Curacoa.—Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of Seville oranges, and pour over it a pint of boiling water; when cool, add two quarts of brandy or rectified spirits of wine, and let it remain for ten or twelve days, stirring it every day. Make a clarified syrup of two pounds of finely-sifted sugar and one pint of water; add this to tfie brandy, &c. Line a funnel with a piece of muslin, and that with chemists' filtering paper; let the liquid pass through two or three times, tUl it is quite bright. This will require a little patience. Put it into small bottles, and cork it closely. Time, twelve days. Probable cost, 2s., exclu- sive of the brandy. Sufficient for a little more than three quarts of curacoa. Curacoa imparts an agreeable flavour to cream and to punch, and is an excellent liquor. Cura90a Jelly.—Cura9oa jelly is made by substituting Seville orange-rind for the lemon-rind generally used in making calf s foot jelly, and using cura9oa instead of sherry or brandy. Curapoa Sauce.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of anowroot very smoothly with a little cold water, and pour upon it half a pint of boiling water. Put it on the fire, and let it boil for three or four minutes ; sweeten it, and flavour it with a wine-glassful of curacjoa. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the cura9oa. Sufficient for a small pudding. Curate's Pudding.—Put a pint of new nulk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a large lemon, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a heaped tablo-