COD COD ( 147 ) bread-crumbs, a table - spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a little salt and cayenne. If any sauce remains it may be used instead of the anchovy. Pound all weU in a mortar, with a little butter and the yolk of an egg. Press the mixture into a weU-buttered mould; cover it ■with a plate, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold tish. Sufficient for three persons. Cod Pie, Fresh—Take a deep pie-dish, and till it three-parts with pieces of fresh cod about two inches square. Season it with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, lay two dozen oysters on the top, and put two or three lumps of butter over it. Cover it with a good crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound, when plentiful. A pie made with three pounds of cod, and two dozen of oysters, will be sufficient for six persons. Cod Pie, Salt.—Soak the cod for twelve hours, and simmer it for a quarter of anhour. Cut it into pieces about two inches square. Take a deep pie-dish; place a layer of sliced potatoes half boiled at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, then one of partly-boiled onions shced. Put a little pepper and pounded mace on each layer, and a lump of butter, but, of course, no salt. Make some good melted butter, and mix with it a little made mustard, a table- spoonful of ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Pour this over the pie, cover it with a good crust, and bake it in a brisk oven. Mashed potatoes may be spread over the top of the pie, instead of pastry, if preferred. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of salt fish, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a moderate-sized pie for three or four persons. Cod Hoe.—Parboil the roe, in salt and water, and vinegar. Cut it into thin slices, and dip each slice into frying batter. Fry in hot butter or oil until lightly browned. Drain, and serve them on a hot napkin, with a garnish of sliced lemons and parsley. Time to boil the roe, eight minutes; to fry, eight minutes. Allow three or four slices for each person. Cod, Salt (a la Pran9aise). —Choose cod which has not been very long salted. Soak it and simmer for a quarter of an hour. When sufficiently cooked, drain the fish, and remove the skin and bone ; break the flesh into flakes, put them in a ste-svpan, and stir them quickly over the fire for five or six minutes, adding olive- oil, a little at a time, until a smooth paste is formed. Take it from the fire, add a little thick cream, and cayenne, and if the flavour is liked, some poimded garlic. Place the mixture on a dish, and serve it with toasted sippets. Time to heat the fish with the oil while stirring it, five or six minutes. Probable cost of salt fish, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three or four persons. Cod, Salt, Fried.—Soak and simmer the cod as in the preceding recipe; drain it, and divide it into large flakes. Fry two large onions cut into thin slices in a little butter, and, when lightly browned, drain them. Thicken the butter with a Little flour, and when very smooth add gradually a little new milk or cream imtil the sauce is as thick as a custard. Let the onions heat once more in the sauce, and season them with a little cayenne. Fry the flakes of fish until lightly browned. Place them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Time to simmer the salt cod, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per j)ound. One pound of cod with sauce wUl sers-e for three or four persons. Cod, Salt, with Parsnips (a dish for Ash Wednesday).—Salt cod is usually accom- panied by parsnips, probably because that wholesome root is at its best and sweetest during the course of Lent, and it is verj' generally served with them and egg sauce on Ash Wed- nesday. Wash the fish thoroughly, and lay it in cold water to draw out the salt. It must lie for at least twelve hours, and longer if it is very salt, and the water ought to be changed every four or five hours. When thoroughly soaked, put it in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and let it heat very gradually. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will harden. When nearly boiling, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Drain it, and serve it imbroken on a hot napkin, accompanied by mashed parsnips and egg sauce {see Egg Sauce). Time to soak, from twelve to forty-eight hours, according to the dryness and saltness of the fish. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Cod Sound as Chicken.—Soak and wash three large sounds {see Cod Sound, Boiled), and boil them in milk and water for half an hour. Scrape off the dark skin, and let them cool. Make a forcemeat with a dozen chopped oysters, three ounces of finely-grated bread- cnmibs, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper, a blade of mace pounded, two chopped anchovies, and three ounces of butter. Work all well together with the yolks of two eggs, spread the forcemeat thinly over the sounds, and truss each one as nearly as possible in the form of a chicken. Dredge a little flour over them, and cook them in a Dutch oven, basting them well with butter or lard. Serve w^ith oyster sauce poured over them. To roast, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cod Sound, Boiled.—Cod sounds are much liked by many persons, and may always be procured salted. They are con- venient when kept in store in country houses, though, on account of the necessarj' soaking, they cannot be served in a hurrj-. Put them into plenty of cold water all night, then scrape and rub off the dark skin with a cloth, wash them thoroughly, and put them in a stewpan with equal parts of milk and water, and boil them verj' gently until tender. Be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Serve them on a hot napkin, with egg sauce. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. One pound will be enough for four persons. Cod Sound, Broiled. — Prepare the sounds as in the preceding recipe. Scrape