BLO (72) BOI Boil throo ounces of rioo, thrco ounces of loaf sugar, tho rind of half a lemon, a pioco of cinnamon, and a stick of vanilla, with a pint and a half of now milk. When tho rico is boilod to a pulj}, add tho almond jjasto and liquid, and simmor ten minutes. Then put into it throe-cpiarters of an ounce of isinglass, and when dissolved, pass the whole tlu-ough a sieve into a mould, and stand in a cold jilaco till lirmly set. Servo with a cream over it. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. ' Bloaters.—Open tho bloaters down tho back, and bono them. Lay the fish one on the other (insides together), and broil over a clear fire. When sent to table they are separated, laid on a hot dish, and rubbed over with a little butter; or, split up, tako out tho back bone, trim ofE the head, tail, and fins, double the fish over, and broil from five to six minutes over a clear fire. Blonde Pish Sauce.—Put three table- spoonfuls of stock into a stewpan, and stew the following ingredients for half an hour over a slow fire:—An onion cut small, two mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a lemon very thinly sliced, and a glass of white wine. When nearly stewed, add, by degrees, a cupful of melted butter, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten; keep stiiTing the pan over the fire for four or five minutes, but do not allow the contents to bon. Strain through a sieve, and use it for any kind of fish. Probable cost, lOd. Boar's Head, Boiled. — Remove the snout, hair, and bones, from a boar's head; cleanse it thoroughly, scald and put it into a boUing pot containing ^'inegar and water; add two ounces of salt, a few peppercorns, some parsley, thyme, eschalot, and sage ; let it steep for three days, with the tongue and two pounds of the meat. When drained, fiU up the cavities made by the removal of bones, &c., with thin slices of the meat and tongue rolled to- gether ; fasten up the opening with strong thread boae'8 head. as soon as the head has been well fiUed and the form is good. Put it, tied up in a cloth, mto a stewpan with the herbs, &c., and add a pint of wine, four cloves, a carrot, and an ounce of salt, to simmer from six to seven hours, when it may be taken out and allowed to cool. When quite cold, remove the cloth, imdo the fastenings, or- nament and glaze tho head. Replace tho tusks, and insert eyes made of white of egg and beet- wot. Serve with a folded napkin under. Boar's Head Sauce.—Cut the rind from two onmgof, and sUco them. Rub two or three lumps of sugar on two more oitmges, put the sugar into a basin with six or seven table- spoonfuls of rod currant jolly, a little white pepper, one shallot, one spoonful of mixed mus- tard, and enough poit wine to make the sauws as thick as good cream; add the orange-rind slices, which should be cut very tliin, and bottle for use. This sauce is useful for nearly every kind of cold meat. I'robable cost, Is. 6d. Bohemian Ice Cream.—The smaller varieties of rijje rod fruit are used to make this cream ; they are pulped through a line sieve, and to a pint of tho juice thus procured, add an ounce and a half of the best isinglass, dis- solved in half a pint of water. Sweeten to taste, and squeeze in lemon-juice if liked. Mix to this quantity a pint of sweetened whipt cream, and mould for freezing. These creamB, where raspberries only are used, may be put into glasses, and made without isingbiss—in the proportions of a pound of fruit juice Uj a pint of whipt cream. Time to freeze, about thirty minutes. Boil, To.—Before boiling joints of meat, the cook should think for a moment, whether she desires the juices to go into the water, an. in soups and gravies, or to be retained in the meat itself. If they are to be retained, put the meat into fast-boiling water, let it boil fo. about five minutes, to make the outside hard, and thus prevent the juice escaping. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, or the appearanc of the meat will be spoilt. Draw the saucepan a little to the side of the fire, throw a littlf cold water into the liquor in order to reduce the temperature considerably, and let it simmer very gently until ready. Care must be taken to remove the scum when the water is on the point of boiling, or it will quickly sink, and cannot afterwards be removed. If it is desired- to extract the juice from the meat, cover it with cold water, and simmer slowly as before. The practice of boihng meat quickly cannot bo sufiiciently deprecated. It only renders it hard and tasteless. At the same time the simmering should be continuous. Before boiling, all joints should be delicately and neatly trimmed, and firmly skewered. It is a good plan to put a few pieces of wood under the meat to prevent it adhering to the pan. Salted meat requires longer boiling than fresh meat. Dried and smoked meat should be soaked for some hours before it is put into the water. As a very largo quantity of water takes the goodness out of the meat, it is well to use a saucepan sufficiently largo to contain the joint easily, and no more. Afterwards, if the meat is entirely cov^l with water, this is all that is required. The whiteness of meat or poultry is preserved by its being wrapped in a weU-floured cloth whilst in the pan, but great care must be taken that this is perfectly sweet and clean before using, or the flavour wiU be spoilt. - From -i quarter of an hour to twenty minutes should bo allowed for each pound, counting from th(> time the water boils. Puddings should bo plunged into plenty of boiling water, and kept boiling quickly until done.