(3) ALK ALB "batter into a convenient sized mould, and bake in an oven with a moderate heat for about an hour. When cioue, and sufficiently cold, cut CAKE UOULD. into thin slices ready for serving. Albert biscuits may be also baked in small tins or moulds, which should be buttered and floured. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Albert Pudding.—Beat six ounces of butter quite thin, then gxaduaUy mix with it five well-beaten eggs, half a pound of flour, and six ounces of loaf sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been grated; add half a pound of stoned raisins, and place the entire mixture in a mould which has been well buttered and lined ALBERT PUDDING. with slices and stars made of citron, peel, and figs. Tie it up closely, and steam or boU it for at least throe hours. Serve it with good melted butter, flavoured with lemon and brandy. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of brandy. Albert Pudding (another way).—"Well beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir into it tho yolks of three eggs. Add gradually three ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, two ounces of bread-crumbs, quarter of a pound of sultana raisins, and the whites of the eggs well whisked. Pour into a buttered mould, cover with an oiled paper and a cloth, and steam it. Ser^-e with wine sauce. Time to steam, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four persons. Albert's (Prince) Pudding.—Lay the thm rind of a lemon over half a pound of crumbled Savoy cake, and pour over tliem half a pint of boiling milk ; add a good pinch of salt, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, together with a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Pour the whole, when weU mixed, into a buttered mould, and steam it for nearly an hour. A little jam served with this pudding is an improvement. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Alderman's Pudding. — Pour three pints of boiling milk over six table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and soak for half an hour. Shred finely six ounces of firm beef suet; mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of stoned raisins and another of currants; add a little sugar and grated nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix these ingre- dients together with five eggs well beaten. Lino the edges of a shallow pie-dish with good crust, place the pudding in it, and bake. It is also very nice steamed. Time to bake, forty minutes; to steam, two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 2s. Ale-Berry.—Soak two large spoonfuls of oatmeal gToats in a little water for an hour, strain the liquor, and add to it half a pint of boiling beer or porter; pour the mixture into a saucepan, and boil it; grate a little whole ginger into it, and any seasoning which may be pre- feired; sweeten it to taste. Time, ten minutes to boil. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 6d. Ale Cup.—Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a round of hot toast; lay on it a thin piece of the rind, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a little grated nutmeg or powdered all- spice, and a sprig of balm. Pour ovfer these one glass of brandy, two of sherry, and three pints of mild ale. Do not allow the balm to remain many minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s. Ale, Draught (to keep in good condi- tion) .—Keep the ale in a cool, dry, well-venti- latea cellar, with a temperature of from fifty to sixty degrees. If allowed to fall below fifty degrees the appearance of the beer may be spoilt; if it rises above sixty or sixty-five degrees it may turn sour. Place tho cask firmly and securely on its stand, and leave it undistui-bed for the first twenty-four hours, as if drawn too soon the beer may never brighten at all. Leave the vent-peg loose for twelve hours after the ale is placed on its stand, and then if it has ceased to effervesce, but not unless, diive it in tightly. If the ale is not to be used immediately loosen the vent for three or four minutes each day. With this exception the vent may be left imtouched, as if too much air is let into the barrel the ale will become flat. When it is necessary to tilt the barrel, raise it steadily at the back end and fasten it securely, so that it need not aftei-wards be disturbed. It may then be drawn off, and remain good until the very last. As soon as a cask is empty cork it up at once, or it wiU become foul. Alo Flip.—Put into a saucepan three pints of aley a table-spoonful of sugar, a blade of mace, a clove, and a small piece of butter, and bring the liquid to a boU. Beat the white of one egg and the yolks,of two thoroughly, mixing with them a table-spoonful of cold ale. Mix all together, and then pour the whole rapidly from one large jug to another from a good' height, for some minutes, to froth, it thoroughly, but do