CAB BUT Butter Seasoned with Pepper.— Work up soino buttiT with puwilerod popper, Rnd sorvo us soon as pre^mrod. Butter and other spices may ho prepai'ed in a similar manner. Butter, To Keep, in Summer—Place the butter-dish into a basin containing water, within two inches of the top. Tlu'ow a piece of muslin, which has boon well wetted, hut wrung to prevent any moisture dripping into the butter, over it, and allow the ends to fall into the water. Or, turn a large llower-pot, around which a woollen cloth has been tied, pre- viously well soaked in water, over the butter- dish, and stand it on a stone floor. In this latter plan all that is needed is to keep the woollen cloth moist; in the former, to change the water every day, and rinse the muslin. Butter, To Preserve without Salt- Dissolve the butter very gently in a clean pan over the fire. All the watery particles will evaporate, and the curd—which is the cause of the butter becoming rancid—will fall to the bottom. It should not boil. Throw the butter into a clean vessel, keeping out the sediment and excluding the air by means of a bladder tied over the top. When cool it resembles lard. It will also lose some of its flavour, but it is superior to salt butter for culinary uses, and especially for pastry. Butter, Truffled.—To those who like the flavour of truffles, an economical method of procitring it is to dissolve a pound of butter, skim and simmer for four or live minutes, and when the sediment settles, pour the top into an enamelled saucepan over some small thick slices of French trufiles. Add a seasoning of salt, pounded mace, cayenne, and nutmeg. Heat the truffles slowly and shake the pan well round; draw it aside, and stew twenty minutes, or until the truffles are tender; then remove them and i pour the butter into pots for use. This butter will be an excellent addition to any mode of cooking a fowl or turkey, or for frying any lignt dish oi veal, hara eggs, or similar pre- parations. The truffles thus prepared may be used for any sauce required for poultry, veal, tongue, sweet-breads, or other light dish; or, warmed again, they wiU serve as a garnish. Buttermilk Cakes. Take one pint of buttermilk, and stir into it as much flour as will form a dough, with one table-spoonful of dissolved carbonate of ammonia. Roll the dough out in sheets, cut the cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. The carbonate of ammonia may be obtained at any of the drug- gists ; it is the common smelling-salts, without any of the aromatic drugs. It never imparts any taste to the food, as the heat disengages the carbonic acid gas and the ammonia. Buttermilk Scones or Bread.—To one pound of flour add one tea-spoonful of salt; mix fifty grains of carbonate of soda with a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, and rub them into the flour. AVhcn they are well blended toge- ther, mix the flour into a stiff dough with some buttermilk—or milk will do —but no time should be lost in putting it into the ovr-n, or the bread will be hcav)-. It requires a well-heated oven. but not a strong one. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, from 3d. to 4d. Suflicient for a smull loaf. c Cabbage (a la LiUoiso).—Wash and drain a large cabljagc, and, after removing the stalk, cut it into piecoH about the size of a walnut. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and fry in it for a minute or two a small tea-spoonful of finely-chopped onion. Add the cabbage, with pepi)er, salt, and a Uttle grated nutmeg. Cook it over a slow fire, and turn it frequently to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish and serve. Time to prepare, fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, 4d. or 5d. Sufficient for four per- sons. Cabbage, Boiled.—Cut off the stalk, re- move the faded and outer leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages. Wash them the- re ughly,and lay them for a few minutes in water, to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added, to draw out any insects that may be lodging under the leaves. Drain them in a colander. Have ready a large pan of boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt and a small piece of soda in it, and let the cabbages boil quickly till tender, leaving the saucepan un- covered. Take them up as soon as they are done, drain them thoroughly, and serve. Time to boil: young summer cabbages, from ten to fifteen minutes; large cabbages or savoys, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient, one moderate-sized cabbage for two persons. Cabbages, Boiled (another way). — Cut off the stalk, remove the faded outer leaves, and halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages. Wash i them thoroughly, and lay them for a few mi- nutes in water to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added for the purpose of de- stroying any insects that may be present. Drain them in a colander. Put them in a large saucepan of boUing water, to which a table- spoonful of salt and a very small piece of soda have been added, and let them boU quickly for six minutes, pressing them dowTi two or three times to keep them well under the water. Then take them out and throw them into another saucepan prepared just like the first. Let them boil ten minutes, and repeat the process, letting them boil the third time until tender. Serve as hot as possible, with melted butter or white sauce poured over them. Time: small summer cabbage, twenty minutes or more; large cabbage, from half to three- quarters of an hour. Sufficient, one small cab- bage for two persons. Cabbage Cake. —Boil a largo cabbage till it is quite tender. Drain the water from it, and chop it small. Butter the inside of a pie- dish, and dust it with finely-grated broad- crumbs. Place on these a layer of chopped cabbage about an inch thick, thf^n a layer of cold beef or mutton finely minced and flavoured ; repeat until the pie-dish is nearly full, making the top layer of the cabbage. Lay tliree or four