AME ( U ) the bread with the above mixture, thou a slice of the moat; lay on another slice of bread, and so on, till the quantity required -is prepared. If cut into small shapes, these sandwiches prove very acceptable for breakfast or for evening parties. The above quantities ^ill make as many sandwiches as will fill a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2s. American "Velvet Breakfast Cakes. —I'ut a pint of new milk on the lire; let it simmer a few minutes, but do not allow it to boil. Stir into it a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Add a little salt, and three spoon- fuls of good yeast, with thi-ee weU-beaten eggs. Mix with these sufficient flour to make a soft dough, which will be about three pounds. Knead all well together, and put the mixture in a warm place in a basin with a cloth over it, for two hours or more. Then make it up into small cakes, lay them quite near each other on a weU-oUed tin, and bake in a quick oven. Time, qiiarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. This will make about twenty- fom- cakes, and two are sufficient for each person. American White Cake.—Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream: work in gradually two and a half cupfuls of flour, a cupful of milk, the whites of si.x eggs, and, last of all, a tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. Directly it is taken out of the oven, brush whisked white of egg over the top, and sift loaf sugar on it. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a quart mould. Anchovies.—The best anchovies are those which are small and plump. The pickle should be red, and the scales white. They are pre- served in salt brine, and the bottle which contains them should be kept closely covered, as tho air soon spoils them. They should be washed in cold water before being used. Anchovies, Essence of.—Clean and remove the bones from one pound of anchovies, beat them into a pulp, and pass the soft portion through a sieve, so as to separate the flesh from any small bones, &c. Put those parts of the pulp that will not pass through the sieve into a pan with the bones, and simmer them, with the liquor in which they have been pickled, a blade of mace, a little cayenne pepper, a heaped tea- spoonful of salt, and a pint of water, for twenty minutes, strain, and add the soft portion of the anchovies that passed through the sieve. BoU all together at a moderate heat for a few mmutes. Then take tho vessel from the fire, and add a quarter of a pint of strong vinegar! Essence of anchovies should be kept in smali bottles, with the corks covered with bladder, and scaled to render them air-tight. Probable cost, 4s. Anchovies, Essence of (another way). —Remove the bones from three anchovies, and beat them into a paste with four green chihcs, or a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and twe shalots. Then mix them with a quarter of a pint of walnut ketchup, and half a |)iut of nmslu-oom ketchup, and preserve tho essence in well-closed bottles. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for one pint bottle. Probable cost, 2s. Anchovies, Essence of (another way). Beat half a pound of anchovies with the bones into a paste, and put it into a pint of spring water ; boil it quickly, till the anchovies are dissolved, then season it with black or cayenne pepper. If raisin wine be substituted for the water, the essence will be much richer. It should bo strained through a coarse sieve, and kept closely corked, as the au- injures it. Es- sence of anchovies thus made will not be of the bright colour or consistence of that gene- rally sold by oilmen, which is thickened Avith starch, and coloured with Armenian bole, or poisonous Venetian red; but the uncoloured essence is of greatly improved quality and flavoiu'. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient for rather more than a pint. Probable cost, Is. 8d., if made with water.. Anchovies, Essence of. Mock.—Boil a quart of old ale for a quarter of an horn-, let it stand till it is cold; take five Dutch pickled herrings, with their liquor (remoA^ng the heads and roes), pound or mince them finely, and put them into the ale, with a stick of horse-radish scraped; boil the liquid for twenty- minutes, then strain it. Hold a clean frying-pan over the fire, that it may be quite dry; put in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep stiri-ing it with a wooden spoon, tiU it is the colour of essence of anchovies; put the liquor to it, and stir it tin it boils; when cold, bottle it. If not of sufficient colour, put a little Armenian bole to it. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient to make two pints and a half. Anchovies, Fried. — Wash a dozen anchovies and dry them weU, cut oS. the heads, open them, and remove the backbone without breaking the fish. This part of the business must be dexterously done. Dip them in a light batter, and fry them in boiling oil, or lard, until they are slightly browned. If preferred, they may be soaked for three-quarters of an hour in a little nulk, and floured before frying. Time to fry, ^ five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Anchovies, Potted.—Potted anchovies are made in the same way as anchovy paste, spices and cayenne being added to the former. The air should be carefully excluded, or they will soon lose their colour. Anchovies, Simple Method of Serving. — Wash the anchovies lightly, and dry them in a soft cloth, being careful to handle them gently while doing this. Open them, and remove the backbone with- out injuring the fish. Arrange them neatly on a dish, garnish with the white of egg chopped finely, and a little parsley; cover them with oil, and serve. Probable cost. Is., for a half-pint bottle. Sufficient for five or six persons. Anchovies, To Fillet.—Wash the an- chovies ; cut o£E the heads and fins, scrape