MAP ( 406 ) MAP are made of white birch, which last one season, or less. Troughs of pine, or linden, or bass- wood may bo had for a ti-ifle each, and they will lust for a number of years if inverted in the shade of trees. But those are inconvenient, and after the first year they become dirty, and clog the stip. Pails with iron hoops are the best, and eventually the cheapest. By painting and preserving them they will keep for many years. Maple Sugar, Fining of.—An Oswego authority remarks that, from mismanagement in the process of manufacture, maple sugar frequently becomes very impm-e. Its value is lessened, while the expense of making it is in- creased. " I am sensible," he adds, " that tne method which I shall recommend is not alto- gether a new one, and that it is more by attending to some apparently minute and trivial circum- stances, than to any new plan, that my sugar is so good. Much has been written upon, and many useful improvements have been made in, that part of the process which relates to tap- ping the trees, and gathering and evaporating the sap, &c.; but still, if the final operation is not understood, there will be a deficiency in the quality of the sugar. I shall confine myself to that part of the operation which relates to reducing the syrup to sugar, as it is of the first importance. My process is this:—When the sjTup is reduced to the consistence of West India molasses, I set it away till it is perfectly cold, and then mix with it the clarifying mat- ter, which is milk or eggs—I prefer eggs to mUk. The eggs should be thoroughly beaten, and effectually mixed with the sjTup while cold. The 8}Tup should then be heated till just before it weald uou, when the curd rises, bring- ing with it every impurity, even the colouring matter, or a great portion of that which it had received from the smoke, kettle, buckets, or re- servoirs. The boiling should be checked, and the scum carefully removed, when the syrup should be slowly turned into a thick woollen strainer, and left to run through at leisure. I would remark that a great proportion of the sugar that is made in our country is not strained after cleansing. This is an error. If examined in a wine-glass, innumerable minute and almost imperceptible particles of curd will be seen floating in it, which, if not removed, render it liable to burn, and othei-Avise injure the taste and colour of it. A flannel strainer does this much better than a linen one. It is, indeed, mdispensaMe. As to the quantity of eggs ne- cessary, one pint to a pailful of syi-up is amply suflicient, and half as much will 'do very well. I now put my syrup into another kettle, which has been made perfectly clean and bright, when it is placed over a quick but solid fire, and soon rises, but is kept from overflowing by being ladled with a long dipper. When it is suffi- ciently reduced (I ascertain this by dropping it from the point of a knife, when hot, into one inch of cold water—if done, it will not imme- diately mix with the water, but Avill lie at the bottom in a round, flat drop), it is taken from the fire, and the foaming allowed to subside. A thick white scum, which is usable, is re- movcdj and the sugar turned into a cask, placed on an inclined pktform, and left undisturbed for six weeks, or longer, when it should h>i tapped in the bottom, and the moksses drawn oil'. It will drain perfectly dry in a few days. The sugar made in this maimer is very ntjarly as white as lump sugar, and beautifully grained. From the scum taken off in cleansing I usually make, by diluting and re-cleansing, one-sixth as much as I had at first, and of an equal quality. It is not of much consequence, as regards the quality of tlie sugar, whether care be taken to keep the sap clean or not. The points in which the greatest errors are com- mitted are—neglecting to use a flannel strain<;r, or to strain after cleansing, to have; the sugar- kettle properly cleaned, and to remove the white scum from the sugar." Maple Sugar, To Make.—The process of making maple sugar is very simple, and easily performed. It begins by the preparation of spouts and troughs or tubs for the trees; the spouts or tubes are made of elder, sumach, or pine, sharpened to fit an auger-hole of about three-fourths of an inch in diameter. The hole is bored a little upward, at the distance, horizontally, of five or six inches apart, and about twenty inches from the ground on the south or sunny side of the tree. The trough should be cut from white maple, pine, ash, or bass-wood. It is placed directly under the spouts, the joints of which are so constructed as completely to fill the hole in the tree, and prevent the loss of the sap at the edges, having a small gimlet or pitch-hole in the centre, through which the entire juice discharged from the tree nms, and is aU saved in the vessels below. To give the best run of sap the distance bored into the tree is only about half an inch. The method of boring is far better for the preservation of the tree than boxing, or cutting a hole with an axe, from the lower end of which the juice is directed by a spout to the tub or trough placed to receive it. The tub should be of ash, or of some other wood that wiU impart no vicious taste to the liquid or sugar. The sap ifi to be gathered every day fi'om the trees, and put in large tubs for the purpose of boiling dowja. This is accomplished by means of a steady hot fii-e. The surface of the kettle is cleansed from time to time by a skimmer. A small piece of fat pork is suspended at the proper point to prevent the liquid from boiling over. As the volume of the liquid is reduced, fresh additions of sap are made. "When boiled down to a sjTup, the liquor is set aside in an earthen- ware or metal vessel to cool and settle. The purest part is then dra^vn oft', or potn-ed into a kettle until the vessel is two-thirds full. By a brisk and continual fire the sj-rup is further reduced in volume to a degree of consistence best learned by a little experience. It- may then either be put into moulds, to become hard as it cools, or stirred until it is grained into sugar. The right time for removing it from the fire may be ascertained by cooling and grdining a small quantity. In the manufac- ture of maple sugar there are several difficultiea to be encountered. In reducing the sap, great care must bo taken not to burn the liqmd after