cassell's cookery. croquettes in which the insides ai'e moist tliei-fi must be a limit to size. If very moist, they must be small; indeed, a middling-sized walnut should be the limit, for it is evident that the Ktien,i,'th of material of a thin film composed of coagulated egg would not be sulhciont to overcome the force of gravity alone of a moist mass, the tendency of which is of course to become level. The best form indeed to make these croquettes is cutlet-shape, or, as we have before described, the shape of an oval picnic biscuit. My own experience is that this shape is less liable to break than any other, besides which, when arranged round on a dish with plenty of fried parsley, by placing a tiny claw of a crab or lobstei-—one of the small ends of the lesser legs, not the pincei-s—a very ornar mental red handle can be made to the cutlet to represent the bone. While we are speaking generally on the subject of entries, we would wish to comprise under that heading savoury dishes in general; and just as in soups and gravies we called attention to the importance of having brown roux or brown thickening constantly at hand, so, too, in any establishment where savoury dishes are liked would we call attention to the importance of the cook's always having ready to hand a small bottle of what is usually called aromatic spices for season- ing. The advantage of having these spices ready is that an enormous amount of trouble is saved by having them at hand, and as they will keep for years, and a small bottle lasts almost for ever, a little exertion on the part of the cook on some day when she has little to do will have the veiy beneficial result of improving the cooking of the house for years afterwards. Before explaining how these herbs are made, I would mention a few of their, if not every-day, at any rate weekly, uses. Take the very common case of a rump-steak pie, or that exceedingly nice, and when larks are cheap by no means expensive, dish—lark pudding. Now the addition of a very small pinch of these flavouring herbs makes a difference in the flavour of the pie or pudding in ques- tion that is almost incredible; and yet when the herbs are made this improve- ment of flavour is made at a cost so small as to be scarcely appreciable. The flavour it gives to the lark pudding is particularly marked, bringing out, as it does, a gamey flavour, which, considering the exceedingly small quantity put in, will give the cook a very good notion of the power these spices possess. Again, they are of the greatest value in making various kinds of forcemeats for preser\dng game, such as hare or grouse. These herbs are best made as follows :—Take half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of nutmeg, one ounce of white peppercorns, and one ounce of cloves; half an ounce each of mai'joram, thyme, and basil, and a quarter of an ounce of bay-leaves. Have all these herbs and spices thoroughly dried, wrapping them up in several sheets of paper, one over the other, in order to avoid the goodness evaporating, and then have them thoroughly pounded as quickly as possible, and sifted through a fine sieve, and put in a glass-stoppered bottle for use. These herbs can be used for a variety of purposes, and are par- ticularly useful in flavouring all kinds of forcemeats—especially when such force- meat is made from calf's liver or calf's udder. I would here remind you that in all cases when calf's liver is used for forcemeat for dishes in which any kind of game is introduced, that the addition of the liver of the game itself makes a vast improvement to the flavour. When game is plentiful there is never any difficulty in obtaining livers from the poultei-ers, who are obliged to throw away a considerable quantity every day, as the iiver is apt to get high long before the rest of the bird. ,