(486) ox OX over them, and giirniiili with slices of cut lemon and parsley. Time to fry, ton minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Ox Cheek, Baked.—Wash a large fresh ox cheek in two or three waters, then let it soak for some hours in cold water. Drain it well, and put it into lukewarm water, let it boil, skim the liquid carefully, and simmer the cheek gently for a couple of hours. Take it up, remove the bones, lay the cheek on a flat board, and spread upon it a layer of good veal forcemeat. Koll it firmly, bind securely with tape, and bake in a moderate oven. Place it on a hot dish, remove the tapes, and send tomato, piquant, or good brown sauce, to table with it. Time, one hour and a half to bake the cheek. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for seven or eight persons. Ox Cheek, Boiled.—Many excellent and economical dishes may be made from an ox cheek, which is highly gelatinous and nourish- ing, and often proves very useful in large families. Take a moderate-sized ox cheek, or half a large one. Wash carefully, and soak it in cold water for five or six hours. Drain it, rub it well with a table-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of pepper, and put it into a large pan with four quarts of cold water, two or three sticks of celery, and two onions. When it boils, skim carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until it is quite tender, which will be in three hours from the time of boiling. Place the head on a dish with a little of the gravy, and send turnips, carrots, and potatoes to table with it. The liquid will make excellent broth. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Cheek Cheese (see Cheese, Ox Cheek). Ox Cheek, Cold.—Cut the remains of an ox cheek which has been boiled untU quite tender into neat slices. Arrange these on a dish, and pour over them a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg for two or three minutes, then mix with it half a tea- upoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of pepper and salt, eight table-spoonfuls of oil, and two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. The oil should be put in first in very small quantities at a time, and the sauce should be well beaten between each addition, or the oil will not mix well. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send bread and butter to table with it. Time, half an hour to beat the sauce. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Ox Cheek, Potted (a breakfast or supper dish).—Pick the meat from an ox cheek which has been simmered until it is quite tender. Mince it very finely, and mix with it a tea- spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and a table- spoonful of powdered thyme. Put it in a plain mould, cover with a dish, and place a weight upon the top. Serve cold. Time, four hours to simmer the ox check. Probable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Cheek, Sliced and Fried.—Cut the remains of a cold ox cheek which has been boiled or stewed until quite tender into neat slices, and dip those into egg and bread-crumbs, grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with plices of lemon. Time to fry, .ten minutes. Pro bable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per pound. Ox Cheek Soup.—Wash an ox cheek thoroughly in lukewarm water, then put it into a large saucepan with two ounces of lean ham, an onion stuck with twelve cloves, a turnip, two carrots, three or four sticks of celery, 8 tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a table-spoonful of salt, a bay-leaf, and three quarts of water. Bring the liquid to a boU, remove the scum as it rises, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and sinuner gently for four hours. Take up the cheek, cut off about half a pound of the meat in slices half an inch thick, and put it back into the broth. Mix two table-spoonfuls of ground rice or plain flour with two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and half a table-spoonful of soy; add this to the soup, and simmer it an hour longer. Turn a large carrot and turnip into the shape of peas, olives, &c., according to fancy, peel and trim neatly a quarter of a pint of lautton-onions, cut the slices of ox cheek into inch square pieces, and fry all these in hot butter until they are tender and lightly browned. Strain the soup^ return it to the pan with the fried vegetables, &c., boil them together for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. Time altogether, six hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. per quart. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Ox Cheek, Stewed.—Prepare the ox cheek as in the last recipe. Let it simmer for two hours, then take it up, drain it, and put the liquid aside to cool. Remove the thick layer of tat which will coUect on the top, and put the soup back into the pan with the ox cheek. Let it boil once more, then add a large onion with six cloves stuck in it, a basinful of mixed vegetables cut into small pieces, and consisting of three turnips, three carrots, two leeks, three sticks of celery, two or three sprigs of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a little more salt, if required. Simmer two hours longer. Take up the meat, cut it into neat slices. Strain the gravy. Thicken one pint and a half of it with a little butter rolled in flour, and serve the slices in a dish with the sauce poured over them. A glassful of red wine may be stirred into this sauce, or it may be drawn from the fire for a minute or two, and then mixed with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs ; or a little lemon-juice may be squeezed over the meat, and the sauce poured over after- wards. Probable cost of ox cheek, 6d. per poimd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ox Eyes.—Cut some slices of stale bread three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Toast them, stamp them in rounds three inches in diameter, and take out of the middle of each round a smaller round one inch and a half xn