QBE [ 279 ) GBE Green Corn Soup (a German recipe).— Boil one pint of unripe green corn in water until sufficiently tender, then pass through a sieve, and mix it with a quart of nicely-flavoured clear gravy soup. Let aU boil up together, and serve in a tureen with toasted sippets. A few young spinach-leaves may be boiled in the com to make it a brighter green. Time, half an hour, or more. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Dutch Sauce.—Make half a pint of good bechamel sauce {see Bechamel). Wash some young parsley-leaves, and put them, while wet, into a mortar. Pound them to a pulp, and squeeze out the juice which comes from them into the sauce until it is sufficiently greened. Simmer gently over the fire, and, before serving, add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. The juice must not be added until the last moment, or the colour of the sauce will be spoilt. Time, a few minutes to press out the juice. Sufficient for haK a pint of sauce. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Green Dutch Sauce (another way) {see Dutch 8;iuw>). Greengage Jam. —Choose greengages which are not over ripe; weigh them, and allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Remove the stones and skins, and strew over the plums half of the sugar, pounded and sifted. Let them stand for five or six hours. Put them into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer until reduced to pulp ; add the remainder of the sugar, and boil until a little of the syrup poured upon a plate feels thick and firm. The jam must be well boiled, as plum jams are apt to fer- ment. A few minutes before the jam is taken from the fire add a quarter of the kernels, blanched and sliced. Put the jam into jars; put oiled paper over them, and cover the tops of the jars with thin paper, dipped in gum. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit for one poimd of jam. Greengage Mould.—Take a pint and a half of greengages, fully ripe; sldn, and stone them, and put them into a presei-ving-pan, with ten ounces of loaf sugar and a quarter of the kernels, blanched and sliced; boil until reduced to pulp. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, or gelatine, in a little boiling water; add it to the marmalade, and pour into an oiled mould. Let the fruit remain until firm. When wanted for use, turn it out on a glass dish. Serve whipped cream or custard round it. Time, an hour and a half to boil the fruit. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. for the mould. Greengage Pudding.—Line a buttered mould with good suet crust. Fill it with green- gages, picked and washed; add a little moist sugar, put a lid of the crust on the top, and fasten the edges securely; tie the pudding ia a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil tUl done enough. As soon as the pudding is turned out of the basin, cut a hole in the top, to allow the steam to escape. Serve with sweet sauce. Time, two to two and a half hours, according to the size. Sufficient, a pudding made in a quart mould for half a dozen persons. Probable cost of greengages, 6d. per quart when in full season. Greengages, Compote of.—Boil six ounces of loaf sugar, with one pint of water, for a quarter of an hour. Remove the scum as it rises, put in the fruit, and sinomer gently for another quarter of an hour, or untU. the plums are tender, but imbroken. Care must be taken not to let the plums break, or the appearance of the dish Avill bo spoilt. Lift them out singly with a spoon, and put them into a glass dish; let the syrup cool a little, then pour it over them. The greengages should be eaten cold. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Greengages, Compote of (a German recipe).—Take one pint of very ripe green- gages, take off the skins, and put the plums into a glass dish, with half a pound of pounded loaf sugar strewn over them. In two or three hours sufficient syrup will have been drawn from them. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Greengages, To Bottle. — Choose per- fectly soimd greengages, gathered on a diy day, before they are fully ripe. Put them into wide- mouthed bottles, and fill these with syrup, made by boiling a pint of water with a pound of sugar for four or fiVe minutes. Cork securely, and put them up to their necks in a large pan of cold water, with straw between the bottles to prevent them cracking. Bring the contents of the pan slowly to a boil; after boiling, simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; leave them until cold, seal the corks securely, and keep the bottles in a cool place, with the necks downwards. If there is any leakage, the fruit must be used at once; otherwise, it will keep for years. Pro- bable cost of greengages, when in full season, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Brandy.— Choose per- fectly sound gieengages, not too ripe; weigh them, and allow half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the sugar into a preserving- pan, with three table-spoonfuls of water to every pound, and when it is dissolved, pour it, boiling, over the fruit. Let the greengages remain for forty-eight hours, then boil them very softly till they are clear, but unbroken. Lift them out, singly, with a spoon, and three-parts fill wide- mouthed bottles with them. Boil the syrup then for five minutes; mix with it its measure in good French brandy, and, when cool, fill the bottles. Cover them securely, and keep in a cool dry place. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the plums. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Candy.—Make a syrup of a pound of sugar boiled with half a pint of water. Put the greengages, before they are quite ripe, in this, and boil for a few minutes till they are tender, but unbroken. Take them out, drain them, and sift pounded loaf sugar over them until they look quite white. Put them on dishes in a cool oven, and keep turn- ing them about, and sifting more sugar over them, until they are dry. Time, about fifteen minutes to boil the friait. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, to Preserve Dry.— Take a pound of greengages, gathered on a dry day, before they arc fully ripe. Leave tho