BAG (39) AITS the size of a walnut, and thickly dredged with flour. Lot it simmer slowly, being careful that it does not burn, and serve as hot as possible, with sippets round the dish. Time to stew the mushrooms, twenty-five minutes; with the meat, four minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Haricot Beef—Put a pint of haricot beans into sufficient cold water to cover them, and let them soak until the next day. Drain them, and boil them in two quarts of water for a couple of hours; then pour the water from them, and place them by the side of the fire, with the .lid of the saucepan off, to dry. Shake in with them a lump of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, let it melt, then fry in it two onions thinly sliced until nicely and lightly browned. Work in very smoothly a table-spoonful of groimd rice, a brealifast-cupful of good stock, one scraped carrot, one tiu-nip chopped small, one table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce, a wine- glassful of port wine, and a little pepper and salt. Let all simmer gently for half an hour. Take one pound of nice square pieces of Australian beef, dredge them with flour, and put them iuto the gravy for a few minutes. Put the hot haricot beans round the dish, the beef and gravy in the middle, and serve. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 3d., without the ^vine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Irish Stew.—Simmer three large onions in a pint and a half of nicely- flavoured stock until nearly tender; add pepper and salt, then put with them two dozen large potatoes. Let these stew softly untU nearly cooked, when the contents of a two-pound tin of Australian mutton, cut into square pieces, may be added. Let it simmer five minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish. Time, alto- gether about one hour and a half. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 28. Australian Meat and Tomatoes.— Scald a dozen tomatoes and place them in a stewpan with a little salt and three ounces of butter. Let them stew very gently till tender. Then heat the contents of a two-pound tin of Australian beef. Place it on a hot dish, and the tomatoes round it, and serve with mashed potatoes. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Time to stew the tomatoes, half an hour; to warm the meat, ten minutes. Australian Mutton.—Nearly all the recipes which have been given for Australian beef will apply to Australian mutton. Australian Mutton, Boiled, and Caper Sauce.—Make half a pint of caper sauce. Take the top ofl: a tin of mutton, and place it in a saucepan with boiling water, but do not let the water be high enough for any to enter the tin. Let it become thoroughly heated, then turn it on a dish, and serve it with turnips, carrots, potatoes, and the sauce. Time, quarter of an hour to heat the mutton. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for four or five persons. Australian Mutton and Stewed Carrots,—Scrapr: h;ilt' a dqz^j}, cj^rrots, boil them until tender, drain and chop them into small pieces. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, stir smoothly into it a table-spoonful of floui-; add a cupful of milk, a table-spoonful of boiled and chopped parsley, the carrots, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Let all simmer together for a few- minutes. Put in one pound of mutton, let it get hot, then serve in a hot dish. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three persons. Australian Potted Meat.—Mnce verj' finely the lean part of the meat, remove the skiany parts, and flavour rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little powdered allspice. Pound it in a mortar, adding from time to time a little oiled butter, until it is quite smooth. Press it into pots, and pour a little claiified butter over the top of each pot. Time to pre- pare, twenty minutes. Allow one pound for five persons. Probable cost, 9d. Austrian Pudding.—Mix one pound of flour with a quarter of a pound of finely-shred suet. Add a pinch of salt, a heaped tea- spoonful of baking-powder, a table-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and a table-spoonful of moist sugar. jVIix a large breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk with a cupful of good treacle; stir it into the flour, pour all into a well-oiled movdd, and tie it in a floured cloth. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, three hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Austrian Puffs.—Pound three ounces of almonds in a mortar, vnth a little rose-water. When reduced to a paste, add three table- spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, three ounces of butter melted, but not hot, thi'ee table-spoonfuls of flour, and a cupful of new milk or cream. Beat all thoroughly together, well oil the patty- pans, and half fill them. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a dozen puffs. Baba with Raisins.—Mix half an ounce of Gennan yeast and four ounces of sifted flour with warm water to a soft dough, and put it near the fire to rise. Eub twelve ounces of butter into twelve ounces of flour, work it into a smooth paste vnth eight well-beaten eggs, one ounce of pounded sugar, and a little salt. When the paste is ready and the sponge suffi- ciently risen, blend them well together and mix in two ounces of finely-minced candied citron- peel, two ounces of woll-di-ied currants, and three ounces of stoned raisins. Butter a mould—fill it about half full, and allow it to rise until it is nearly at tne top, when it may be baked at once in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Bachelor's Beef (sec Beef, Bachelor's). Bachelor's Broiler.—This pan, whi(!h was intended by the inventor, Captain Warren, for the use of bachelors who are occasionalljy compelled to cook their own meat,