OBA OBA ( 475 ) over a gentle firo until the sugar is dissolved. When the tiquid is almost cold, add thi-oo- quarters of a pint of thick cream and the well- beaten yolks of four eggs. Put the custard in a jar. place this in a saucepan of boiUng water, and stir it until it thickens; serve either in a glass dish, or in custard cups, and strew a little orange rind cut into very thin strips over the top. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the custard. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Custard (another way).—Boil the thin rind of a Seville orange until it is quite soft. Drain the water from it, and pound it in a mortar with four ounces of sifted sugar. Stir the mixtm-e into a pint of boiling cream, and add the yolks of four eggs well-beaten. Put the custard into a jug, set this in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, and stir it again until it is nearly cold; add a table-spoonful of brandy and the strained juice of the orange, and serve either in a glass dish or in cups. A little orange-peel, cut into very fine shreds, may be put on the top of the custard. If cream cannot be obtained, milk may be used; then the yolks of six eggs will be required. Time, a quarter of an hour to thicken the custard. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Orange Chistard Fritters. — Mix a quarter of a pound of flour very smoothly with tliree eggs and a pint of milk. Stir the batter over the firo for ten or fifteen minutes until it is quite smooth, then add a pinch of salt, two ounces of loaf sugar, which have been well rubbed upon the rinds of two large oranges, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Spread the mixture out to cool, cut it into small oval pieces about a inch and a half long, and fry these lightly in hot fat. Drain them on blotting-paper, and serve them piled high on a napkin, with sifted sugar strewn thickly over them. Time, about eight minutes to fry the fritters. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange-Flowers.—The flowers of the orange-tree should be dried in the months of May, June, and July. They are used for making candy and orange-flower tea, which is considered by many persons an excellent tonic. The flowers of the Seville orange are infused in making orange-flower water for flavouring. Orange-Flowers' Candy. —Put one pound of doubly-refined loaf sugar into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and boU gently for ten minutes. Throw in two ounces of freshly-gathered orange-flowers, and leave them in the boiling syrup for five minutes, then turn them into a bowl, and let them remain for two days. Boil the syrup once more until it rises high in the pan ; strain it upon sheets of paper which have been placed upon large flat dishes, and loosen it from the paper before it is quite cold. Store the candy in canisters until wanted for use; it will keep good some months. Probable cost, uncertain, orange-flowers being seldom offered for sale. Orange-Flowers, Tea of.—Take half an oxmce of orange-flowers. Put them into a jug, pour over them half a pint of boiling water, and leave them to infuse for a few minutes: strain the tea, and sweeten it either with sugar or honey. Probable cost, uncertain, orange- flowers being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for half a pint. Orange Fool.—Strain the juice of three Seville oranges into a basin with three well- beaten eggs. Mix them thoroughly, grate half a small nutmeg over them, and add a pint of thick cream, flavoured and sweetened with sugar, which has been rubbed upon lemon-rind. Put the mixtui'e into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire until it begins to thicken. Serve it in a glass dish, with a little sifted sugar strewn over it. Time, a quarter of an hour to tliicken the mixture. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange Fritters.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of flour smoothly with one well-beaten egg, a quarter of an ounce of butter, and a quarter of a pint of cream, and add a pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Peel four or five large sweet oranges; take away the white pith, and di\'ide them into sections without breaking the thin skin that divides them. Dip the pieces first into sherry, then into sifted sugar, and afterwards into the batter. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them on blotting-paper to free them entirely fi-om fat, and servo piled high on a hot napkin, with sifted sugar strewn, over them. Time, eight or ten minutes to fry the oranges. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine and brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Fritters (another way).—To make the batter, see Batter for Frying. Divide some oranges into quarters; do it carefully so that none of the juice shall escape; the thick white or outer skin must be removed, but the thin skin that holds in the juices should be kept sound. Dip the pieces of orange in sherry, then into fine sugar, and lastly into the batter. Fry, and send to table in pjTamid fashion, with powdered sugar over them, and a napkin on the dish. Fritters may be made \sith a variety of fruit—pears, straw- berries, &c. Probable cost, lOd. Time to fry, five minutes. Sufficient for a small dish. Orange Gin.—Take the thin rind of three Seville oranges and one lemon, and put it into a jar with a pint and a half of gin, three-quarters of a pound of barley sugar crushed to powder, and the strained juice of the fruit; cover the jar closely, and leave it for two or three weeks, being careful to shake it well every now and then. Strain the liqueur into bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. Orange gin im- proves with keeping. Probable cost, exclu- sive of the gin. Is., Sufficient for one quart o; orange gin. Orange Gingerbread. — Put tliree- quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a jar with a pound and three-quarters of best treacle, and place it near the fire until the butter is dis- solved. Beat the ingredients well together, lot them cool a little, then stir them into two poiindft