JAU JAM ( 338 ) Bomo rounds of paper sufficiently largo to over- lap the top of the jar about au inch. Brush the inside with beaten white of egg or with a little gum, and tie it on whilst wot. It will become hard and tight like the skin of a drum, and will thoroughly exclude the aii-. A neat label should bo placed on the front of all jars containing jam, and on this should be written the day of the month and year on which tlio jam was made, and the weight of sugar and fruit used in its preparation. Jam should be kept in a cool, dry place. Damp may turn it mouldy, heat make it ferment. Jambon, Cutlets au {see Cutlets au Jarabon). Jardiniere.—This is a garnish made of cooked vegetables, which gives its name to the dish with which it is served. Thus, fillet of beef a la jardiniere, mutton a la jardiniere, goose a la jardiniere, simply mean fillet of beef, mutton, and goose served with a garnish a la jardiniere. To prepare this garnish, peel two or three sound carrots and turnips, and turn or shape them in fanciful forms of equal size. This is most easily done with a vegetable scoop made for the purpose. Two ounces of Prench beans cut into diamonds should be added, a cauliflower divided into sprigs, two ounces of green peas, two ounces of asparagus tops cut up into small pieces, and a few Brussels sprouts. Cook aU the vegetables first in a little broth nicely flavoured with pepper, salt, and sugar. Take them out when they are rather j underdone, so that they shall not break when 1 dished ; drain them thoroughly, put them into I a saucepan with a table-spoonful of lightly- coloured glaze, and shake them for two or three minutes over the fixe. Take them up, and arrange them round the dish as effectively as possible. This is generally best done by raising the meat in the centre and putting the vegetables round it. Jardiniere Soup.—Scrape three sound carrots and the same number of turnips, and turn them into any fanciful shapes of an equal size with a French vegetable scoop. Put them into a stewpan with a dozen button onions, two or three leaves of lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, and a head of celery cut as nearly as possible the same size as the turnips and carrots. Pour over them two quarts of nicely-seasoned clear stock, and eimmer gently until the vege- • tables are tender. A small lump of sugar is an improvement. Taste the soup before sending it to table, in order to ascertain if further seasoning is required, and servo as hot as possible. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d. per quart, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for six or eight persons. j Jargonelle Pears, To Bake.—Pare, core, and divide four large pears into quarters. Weigh them, and put them into a baking-dish with their weight in sugar, as much cold water as will barely cover them, three or four drops of cochineal, four cloves, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Put them into a moderate oven and bake them until they are tender, but be careful not to let thorn break. Lift the pears carefully into a glass dish, boil the sauce two or three minutes, strain it, and pour it over the fruit. A glass of sweet wine may be added or not. If a httle isinglass or gelatine is dissolved in the hot syrup, it will when cold form a jelly round the pears, and make a pretty dish. Time, one hour or more to bake. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the isinglass. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jargonelle Pears, To Preserve.— Gather the pears before they are fully ripe. Pare them as thinly as possible, cut out thi,- blaclc tops, and pick out the seeds. Weigh tlie fruit and sinuner it very gently until it is quiti- tender, but unbroken; then drain it, and make a syrup of one pound of sugar and half a pint of water to every pound of pears. Let this boil for five or six minutes, remove the scum as it rises, put in the pears and simmer them in the syrup five minutes longer. Lift out care- fully, and put them to stand in a dish with the sjTup, which must entirely cover them, for two days. Then put them again into the pan, and simmer them until they are clear, but they must not break; if a Httle lemon- rind is simmered with the syrup it will improve the flavour, and two or three drops of cochineal will improve the colour. Put the fruit into jars, pour the syrup over it, and cover securely. AVTien wanted the pears may either be served in the syrup or dried in a cool oven. Time, three days. Probable cost, pears, 3d. per pound. Jargonelle Pears, To Preserve (another way).—Prepare the pears as in the last recipe. '^^^len they are pared, cored, and weighed, put them into a saucepan, with vine leaves mider and over them: cover them with cold water, and simmer them gently for half an hour. Drain them, and make a syrup, allowing one poimd of sugar to every pound of fruit, and half a pint of water to every pound and a half of sugar, with one ounce of ginger, and the rind and juice of half a lemon. Boil this syrup for ten minutes, put in the pears, and let them sinuner a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, boil the sjmip ten minutes longer, and when cold pour it over the pears. Cover them closely, and in three days boil the sjTup ten minutes again, and repeat this twice, three days being allowed to elapse between each boiling. The pears must be entirely covered with the sjTup while they are soaking. Put a clove in each pear. Put the fruit in a deep jar, pour the sjTup over it, cover closely to exclude the air, and keep in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of pears, 3d. per pound. Jaune Mange, or Dutch Flummery. —Take the thin rind of a liirge lemon, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, and four ounces of sugar. Simmer gently for a few minutes, then let the syrup stand by the side of the fire for half an hour, that the flavour of the lemon may be thoroughly drawn out. At the end of that timo put in one ounce of best isinglass, and stir until it is dissolved; add the strained juice of the lemon, and half a pint of shen-y or raisin wine. Strain the mixture into a jug, add the woU-heaten yolks of six oggs, and place the jug in a sauce^mn of boiling