HEA ( 311 ) HEB Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient, two for four persons. Hearts, Sheep's, with Batter Pud- (jijlg^ Prepare two hearts as m the last recipe.' Bake them for one hour; then drain them from the gi-avy, put them into a deep, woU-buttored pie-dish, and pom- round them a batter made thus:—Mix four heaped table- spoonfuls of fine flour smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk and water. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt, and, when the flour is quite smooth and free from lumps, another quarter of a pint of milk. Let this be made, if possible, an hour before the batter is wanted. Just before putting it in the oven stir in the whites of the eggs well whisked. Bake imtil the pudding is done enough. Thicken and flavour the gravy in which the meat was stewed, and send it to table in a tureen. Time, two hours. Probable cost, about Is. lOd. It will be sufficient for four or five persons. Hebe's Cup [see Heidelburg Punch). Hedgehog, Apple (see Apple Hedgehog). Hedgehog Pudding—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a poimd of currants, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of sugar, one ounce each of candied lemon, orange, and citron, half a nutmeg gxated, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small pinch of salt, three or four sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, fovir eggs, and as much ale as will make the pudding into a stiff paste. Mix the dry ingredients first; afterwards add the eggs and ale. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for five hours. Have ready three ounces of blanched almonds. Stick them into the pudding before sending it to table, and serve with brandy sauce. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Heidelberg Punch, or Hebe's Cup. —Take a fresh fi-ame-grown cucumber. Cut an inch and a half of it into thin slices, and put them into a punch-bowl with the thin rind of a sound lemon and three table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar. Work them well together for four or five minutes with the back of a wooden spoon; then pour over them three table-spoonfuls of brandy, six of sherry, a bottle of soda-water, and a bottle of claret. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and let them remain for one hour. Just before serving add another bottle of soda- water. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the spirits and wine. Sufficient for a three-pint bowl. Henriette Pudding, or Helena Pudding.— Pour three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk over two ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs. Soak for half an hour, then beat with a fork, add one table-spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a large egg, two ounces of finely-chopped candied lemon, and the yolks of three well-beaten eggs. Spread a little rpricot or currant jam at the bottom of a piodish; ;it the last moment add the whites of two of the eggs well whisked, pour in the mixture, and bake in a gentle oven for half an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, Is. Herb Klosse, or Forcemeat Balls.— Prepare the herbs as in the following recipe, using double the quantity of spinach to that of any other herb. Mince them finely. Soak two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs in a little milk. Squeeze it dry, and mix it wdth six ounces of grated potatoes which have been boiled some hours before. Add a table-spoonful of flour, three well-beaten eggs, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a little pepper and salt, and the minced herbs. Stir all well together with a fork. Handle the forcemeat as lightly as possible, and when shaping it dip the hands in cold water, and wet the spoon with which it is taken up. Form it into balls the size of a large walnut, drop them into boiling water, and let them boil ten minutes. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and stir a table-spoonful of finely-grated fried crumbs in it. Drain the klosse, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over them, and serve immediately. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herb Pudding or Pie. —Take two handfuls of parsley-leaves, one of spinach, one of mustard and cress, one of white beet-leaves, one of finely-sUced lettuce-hearts, three or four leaves of borage, and a dozen chives. Wash these herbs well, and boil them for three or four minutes. Drain the water from them, chop them small, season with salt and pepper, and spread them in a buttered dish. Make a batter with five table-spoonfuls of flour and a pinch of salt, mixed smoothly with two eggs and as much milk as will bring it to the consistence of thick cream. Pour this over the herbs, stir all well together, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, the edges of the dish can be lined with good pastry. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Herb Sauce.—Take two parts of parsley to one of chervil and chives, chop them finely, and pour over as much vinegar as will rather more than cover them. Let them infuse at least an hour, to draw out the flavour of the herbs. This is the usual accompaniment on the Continent to boiled calf's head. A small quantity of other herbs, such as thjnne, marjoram, basil, or sage, may be used, if the flavour is liked, but they are not generally in- cluded in herb sauce properly so called. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per half-pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herb Sauce (another way).—^Pick and wash the herbs. Take two bunches of parsley to one of fennel and one of mint, boil them for three or four minutes, drain and mince them finely, and stir them into half a pint of boiling melted butter. Let the sauce boil up, then pour it into a tureen, add a little salt, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve immcdiatelj'. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Herb Sauce (for flavouring). — Slice a stick uf horseradish very finely, and with it two shallots, and a clovo of i;arlic. Ptri)) Iho leaves from a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram.