CAR ( 110 ) GAS Carrots, Fried.—Wusli and partly boil tho carrots wholo; cut thciu into tliin slicoH, dip thoin in egg and iinoly-giiitcd broad-crumbs, and fry in hot butter or lard. iSorvo tlioni piled high on a dish. Cold carrots may bo warmed up this way. Time to fiy, ton minutes. Hufli- ciont, six carrots for five persons. Carrots in their own Gravy.—Wasli, scrape, and slice the carrots. Put them into boiling salt and water, only just enough to cover them, and when they are tender let them boil fast till only two or three spoonfuls of tho liquid remains. Put witli the gravy a piece of brown thickening tho size of a nut. Shako the saucepan till the gravy is thickened, and serve very hot. Time, one hour and a half. Suffi- cient, six largo carrots for five persons. Ca-rrots, Mashed.—Scrape off all the skin from some largo carrots, and boil them till tender ; mash them smoothly, and return them to tho saucepan, beat thoroughly for a few minutes, adding a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper. Two or three spoon- fuls of gravy or a cupful of milk may be added, but in either case let the vegetables remain over the fire, stirring them constantly till they are nearly dry. Time, one Tiour and a half to boil; ten minutes to dry. Sufficient, six large carrots for five persons. Carrots, Red Puree of.—Wash and scrape some fine large carrots. Cut the red part oil in thin slices, and boil these for about a quarter of an hour. Take them out, drain, and put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, a small piece of butter, and just enough stock to cover them. Let them boil gently tUl tender, then pass them through a coarse sieve. Place tho pulp in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of sugar, and a cupful of stock, and stir imtil it is thick. The puree may be served with stewed mutton cutlets round it. Time, two hours and a half. Sufficient, eight large carrots for two pounds of cutlets. Carrots, Sliced and Glazed.—Wash and scrape some fine large carrots, and cut them into equal slices. Partly boU them in salt and water, drain, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient stock to cover them, a piece of butter, a little salt, and a good-sized lump of sugar. Boil quickly untU the gravy is reduced to glaze. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire for a few minutes, till all the gravy adheres to the carrots. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Gd. or 8d. per bunch. Sufficient, six largo carrots for five persons. Carrots, Stewed. — Wash and slice some large carrots, and simmer them in as much weak broth as will cover them till they are nearly tender, then add a cupful of milk, and thicken the sauce with flour find butter. Season it with pepper and salt. Keep stirring the contents of the stiucepan to prevent them burn- ing. Put the carrots into a hot vegetable dish, and pour tho gi'avy over them. Time, one hour and a half. Sufiicient, six large carrots for five jwrsonB. Carrots, Sweet (for a' second course). —Boil six or eight largo carrots till tender, drain them, and pass thoui through a coarse hair sieve. Put the pulj) into a saucepan, and dry it over a modoiato fircj for a few minutcH, stirring it all tlie time. Mix with it two ounces of good ljutter, a pinch of salt, and a table- spoonful of iinoly-sifted sugar. When tliis is thorouglily blended, add a cupful of cream or now milk. Servo with toasted sipiiets. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Carrots, To Dress in the German way.—Molt two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan. Lay in it six can-ots cut into tliin slices, with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion. Let thoui remain until tender, adding every now and then as it is required a little water or stocic. Thicken the sauce with a little floiu-, and about a quarter of an hour before Ber\'ing, add one table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Time, one hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cassell Pudding.—Take the weiglit of a largo egg in powdered sugar, butter, and flour. Whisk the egg thoroughly. Gradually' mix with it the sugar, which must be rubbed weU on the rind of a lemon before it is pounded, then tho flour, and the butter partially melted; add a pinch of salt. Well oil some cups, put a little apricot or other jam at the bottom of each, and fill them three parts with the mixture. Bake immediately in a good oven. Turn the puddings out, and serve them with wine sauce. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost for six puddings, 6d. AUow one for each person. Casserole of Potatoes.—Peel and boil some good mealy potatoes, mash them with a little salt, butter, cream, and the yolk of one egg to every pint of potatoes. Beat them two or three minutes over the fire to dry them thoroughly, then place them on a shallow dish, and work them with the hands into the shape of a raised pie. Leave a' hollow in the middle, ornament it with flutings, &c., brush it over with beaten egg, and brown it in a quick oven. FiU the inside with a ragout or mince, and serve hot. Casserole of Rice (English method).— Wash a pound of the best rice in two or three waters, and boil it very gently imtil it is quite tender but whole. Drain it and beat it well. If for a sweet casserole, use milk, sugar, a little butter, and lemon or other flavouring. If in- i tended for meat or fish, stew the rice with water I and fat, and season it with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. When quite cool, put a bordering about three inches high and three -wide round the edge of a shallow dish, brush it over with egg or clarified butter, and set it in the oven to brown. Then place in the middle the stew, cuiTy, or sweets which are prepared for it. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the interior, j Sufficient for five or six persons. Casserole of Rice (French method).— j Wash one pound of the best Carolina rice in two or throe waters. Drain it, and put it into a stewpan with a quart of water, a large onion, a tea-spoonful of siilt, and two ounces of fat.