BAR (44) BAT Barberry Syrup for loe. — Make a 8yrup with oiio pound of j^ooJ Bugar and a pint of water, boiling it and removing the scum, for twenty minutes. Put in half a pound of lino ripe barberries and boil ton minutes. Lot it g(!t cold, and bottlo to use when lo quired. Proba])lo cost, 4d. to Gd. per pint. Barberry Water Ice. — Squeeze the juieo from half a dozen lemons and an orange, liub ott" the rind of three lemons on lumps of sugar. Mix these with a pint of clarified sugar, a half pint of water, and enough Ijarberry syrup to flavour. Strain and freeze. This ice may bo made of lemon water ice, mixed with bar- berry syrup. _ Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Sufficient for one quart. Barley Gruel.—The colour and taste of gruel is much improved by washing the seeds and throwing oft" the first water after it has boiled a few minutes. Boil three ounces of pearl barley in a pint of water for ten minutes, then thi-ow it oflE and put to it two quarts of boiling water. When reduced one half it will be sufficiently boiled. Strain, add sugar, lemon- peel, or wine to taste, and simmer for a few minutes. Barley Meal Scones.—The preparation of these wholesome cakes is a very simple pro- cess. The barley meal, with the addition of salt to taste, should be mixed with hot milk till it forms a thick paste. EoU out thin and cut into scones. Bake in a quick oven or on a griddle over a bright fire. They should be but- tered and eaten hot. Barley Soup or Broth.—Put two sheeps' heads, or two or three pounds of shin of beef, in a gallon of water. Add a tea-cupful of pearl barley, three large onions cut small, a small bunch of parsley, a few potatoes sliced, a little thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. Simmer gently for three or four hours, and frequently stir it to prevent the meat from burning. It should not be allowed to boil. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Barley Sugar.—Dissolve lump sugar, boO. and skim it until it is crisp and clear, and no scum rises; test the crispness by dropping some into cold water. Flavour with lemon-juice or essence of lemon. Pour the sugar on a slate, stone, or marble slab, which has been rubbed over with butter or salad-oil; cut it into strips before it is cold, and twist. If marked with a knife it will break easily, and may be made into any form. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Sugar, 4d. per pound. Barley Sugar Drops.—Prepare as di- rected for barley sugar in preceding recipe, but let the syrup fall in drops on the marble slab, and when cold throw pounded sugar over them to dry up any moisture. Barley Water.—Take two ounces of pearl barley, wash it well, and boil for ten minutes in a little water to clear it. When drained put to it five pints of boiling water, and let it boil until reduced to one half. Then strain for use. An excellent pectoral drink is made by boiling the barley as above, and adding tlie following ingredients: half an ounce of licorice root, sliced and well bruised; two ounces of figs, the same of raisins, stoned ; distilled water, one l)int, to one (piart of tlie jinspared barley water. Lot all boil till tlie licjuid is reduced to two pints, then strain for use. If used freely tills jireparation will be found very efficacious in eases of inflammatoiy attacks of the chest, coughs, &c. Probable cost, 4d, per pint. Barm, To Make.—To an ounce of isin- glass di88(jlved in warm wat<3r mix half a pound of the best flour. Take two ounces <jf hops, and boil in a quart of water tiU it is reduced one Imlf, then stir altogether in a gallon and a half of warm water and a very small quantity of barm, as made by brewers of it, and put in a warm place for two days. Probable cost, Is.4d. Basket, Chantilly. — This basket ia pretty, but skill is required to make it success- fully. Make a cement of sugar boiled to crackling height. Dip the edge of some macaroons into it, and line a mould shaped CHANTILLY BASKET. like a basket with them, taking care that the edges of the macaroons touch each other. When wanted take it out of the mould, fill it with whipped cream, and it is then ready for table. Time, two or three hours to set. Cost for quart mould, exclusive of cream. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bath Buns.—Put one pound of flour into a pan, and make a hole in the centre, into which pour one table-spoonful of yeast and 'one cui)ful of milk, slightly warmed. Mix these together with a little of the flour, and leave it near the fire to rise. Dissolve six ounces of butter, and beat up four eggs ; add this to the sponge, and knead all together. The dough must be again allowed to rise; and when it has well risen, which will be in about an hour, put small balls of this mixture on a well-greased oven-tin two or three inches apart. This dough being light, it will fall into the required shape. Sprinkle loaf sugar on the top, or brush the buns over with a mixture of egg and milk. Five or six caraway comfits and lemon or citron-peel may be added. Bake in a moderate oven. Bath Chap, To Cook.—The excellence of this well-prepared meat depends greatly on the soaking and boiling. If these be not properly attended to, it -will be hard and unsatisfactory. Lay it in a pail of cold water, skin down- wards, and let it remain one night. _ Scrub the chap with a small brush to cleanse it: put