CHE ( 124 ) CHE cask. Bruise them slightly with a stick, then add tlireo pouadH of sugar, twolvo cloves, half uu ouuco of powdorod ciuuamou, and two nutinogs grated, with a quarter of the kernels of the chorry-stonos, and a handful of mint and halm. Pour over those six quarts of brandy or gin. Let the cask remain open for ton days, tlion close it, and in two months it will be tit for use. Probable cost, Morella cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for one gallon and a half of clierry brandy. Cherry Cheese.—Take some sound, ripe Kentish cherries stoned or not as preferred; put them into a stone jar, cover it closely, and place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft. When the cherries are sufficiently tender, take them from the fire, skin and stone them, and add half a pound of finely-sifted sugar to every pound of fruit. Add a few of the kernels blanched. Put the mixture into a pro- serving-pan, and boil it gently stirring it all the time, until the fruit is so dry that it will not adhere to the finger when touched, and is quite clear. Press it quickly into shallow jars which have been damped with brandy. Cover closely, and keep in a dry place. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Cherry Drink.—^Wash and stone half a pound of sound ripe cherries, bruise and pour over them a pint of boiling water, and add a piece of thin lemon-rind, or, if preferred, a few of the kernels bruised. Let them soak for four or five hours, then strain and sweeten the liquid with two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, and, if liked, add a dessert-spoonful of brandy. This is a refreshing beverage in hot weather. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for one person. Cherry Jam.—Choose sound, ripe Kentish cherries, remove the stones, and boil the kernels in a little water to draw out the flavour; this will impart a very agreeable flavour to the jam. Weigh the fruit, after stoning it, and allow one poimd of sifted sugar to one pound of fruit. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a cupful of the water in which the kernels were boUed to each two pounds of fruit, making up the measure with water, or red currant jiuce. Boil to a syrup, then add the fruit and boil it very quickly imtil it is on the point of jeUj-ing. Pour it into jars, cover it with brandied paper, and put over this paper dipped in gum. Time to boil the sugar and water or juice to a sjTup, about ten minutes; the syrup and fruit to the point of jellying, about forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 8d. or 9d. per pound. Cherry Paste. — Cherry paste is made in much the same way as cherrj' cheese, except that the fruit is boiled nearly dr>' before the sugar is added, and then that the weight of the pulp is taken in sugar, and boiled -with it until the fruit leaves the pan entirely, and adheres to the spoon. It is then pressed into moulds, and kept like other dried fruits. It should not be covered up until it is quite dry. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per lb. Cherry Pie.—Black cherries are generally considered beat for pies. Wash and pick the fruit, and place it in a pie-dish, piling it high in the middle ; strew a httle sugar over it, and cover it with a good light crust. Bake in a good oven for about threu-quailers of an hour, l^robablo cost of clierrii.-s, 3d. to 6d. per pound. A pie made with two pounds of fruit will be sufficient for four or five persons. Cherry Pudding, Baked.—Wash and stone the clierries, put a layer of them at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish, and strew over this a Uttlo sifted sugar and a small quantity of finely-chopped lemon-rind; layover those some thin bread and ljutter, and repoat the layers until the dish is full, finishing with chen-ies strewn over with sugar; pour a large cupful of water over the whole, and bake in a good oven. This pudding may be made with dried or preserved cherries, when, instead of water, a little custard may l)e used to moisten the bread. The kernels of the cherries, too, may be blanched and sliced, and used instead of lemon-rind. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. A pudding made with two poimds of cherries will ser^^e for five or six persons. Cherry Pudding, Boiled.—Make some good suet crust, line a plain, roimd buttered basin with it, leaving a little over the rim; fill it with cherries, washed and picked, add a little sugar and some finely-chopped lemon-rind, wet the edges of the paste, lay a cover over the pudding, and press the edges closely round. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling, or the pudding will become heavy. Before turning it out, dip the basin into cold water for a moment. Serve with sifted sugar. A smaU pudding wiU require about two hours to boil. If the cherries are not fully ripe, a longer time must be allowed. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cherry Sauce.—Take one poimd of soimd, ripe cheiTies, wash and stone them. Blanch the kernels, and put them in a saucepan, with just enough water to cover them, and let them simmer gently untU the flavour is thoroughly extracted Put the cherries into a saucepan with a pint of water, a glass of port, four cloves, a slice of bread toasted, and a little sugar. Let these stew gently until the fruit is quite soft, then press the whole thi-ough a sieve, add the liquid from the kernels, boil up once more, and serve. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Cherry Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Pick and stone a pound of chemes, and pound the kernels to a paste. Mix a tea- spoonful of arroA^TOot smoothly with a little cold milk, and pour over it half a pint of boil- ing milk. Boil it for two or three minutes, then stir into it the cherries and the kernels, a tea- spoonful of minced lemon-rind, half a nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a wine- glassful of port. Let these simmer gently until the cherries are quite cooked; press them tlirougli a coarse sieve, boil the sauce again for two or three minutes, and serve it very hot. Good