( 383 ) LIT LIV jams, laid in strips from the centre like the spokes of a wheel. Time, about twcnty-fivo minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Little Mary's Cup Puddings.— Grate the rind of a large fresh lemon upon two ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Mix a dessert-spoonful of the juice -^vith half a pint of cold water. Dissolve the sugar in this over the fire; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and wine-glassful of sherry, or any other light wine, and when the butter is melted, pour the mixture out to cool. ]Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with three well-beaten eggs, add the cooled liquid very gradually, and stir the batter over the fii'e for three minutes. Take some well-buttered cups, three-parts fiU them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Turn the puddings out of the cups before serving, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the vnne, lOd. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Liver and Ham, Forcemeat of, for Raised Pies, &C.—Take half a pound of calf's liver, and half a poimd of fat bacon. Cut the meat into one-inch squares, and fry them lightly, putting in the bacon first, and when it is half done adding the liver. Season with a small tea-spoonful of herbaceous seasoning and a little salt. When the liver is half cooked, take it and the bacon up, drain them from the fat, mince finely, then pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, pass this thi'ough a coarse seive, and put the forcemeat aside for use. Probable cost, 9d. per poimd. Liver and Kidney Pudding {see Kidney and Liver Pudding). Liver and Lemon Sauce for Fowls (see Lemon and Liver Sauce). Liver and Parsley Sauce.—Take the liver of a fowl or rabbit—be careful that it is perfectly fresh—wash it, and boil it for five minutes in a quarter of a pint of water, ilince it very finely, pound it in a mortar, and mix -with it a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Stir both into a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Let the sauce remain on the fire until it is quite hot, but it must not boil. Time, one minute to heat the sauce. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Liver, Fat RagoSt of.—Take the livers of two largo fat geese. Eemove the gall-bag, taking care that no yellow spots are left near the place where it was, then lay the livers in milk for some hours to whiten them. Put them into a stewpan, and cover them with equal parts of good gravy stock and light wine. Put with them a bunch of parsley, two sliced shallots, a tea-spoonful of bruised pepper and ginger mixed, four bruised cloves, a bay-leaf, and a little salt. It is probable that very little of the last-named ingredient will be required, as the gravy and stock will doubtless contain salt sutficicnt f-'over the saucepan closely, and simmer gently" When the livers avo done enough, drain theiu from the liquid, and reduce the latter by rapid boiling to the consistency of sauce. This ragout may either be used as a garnish, or it may be served as a 8ej)arato dish. A\Tien the latter is the case, the livers should bo placed upon a dish, and the yolks of two eggs beaten up with quarter of a pint of cream added to the reduced liquid, and poured over them. Time to simmer the livers, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost imcertain, livers being generally bought with the geese. Sufficient for four or five persons. Liver, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Liver). Liver, Fried.—Cut one pound of Uver into slices, a quarter of an inch in thickness, and dredge some fioui- over them. Take an equal number of slices of bacon, fat and lean together. Fry the bacon first, and when it is done enough, draw the rashers from the fat, and place them on a hot dish. Fry the slices of liver in the same fat, and when lightly browned on both sides, dish bacon and liver in a circle, a slice of each alternately. Pour the fat from the pan, and dredge a little flour into it. Add a quarter of a pint of broth, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Stir smoothly together until the sauce boils, and pour it into the dish with the liver. Garnish with sliced lemon. If Hked, a table-spoonful of finely-minced gherkins or pickled walnuts may be added to the sauce. Time, a quarter of an hour to fry the liver. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Liver Fried (another way).—Take one pound of fresh liver, and a few rashers of bacon. Cut the liver into neat slices, a quarter of an inch thick, and dip each slice in a mixture made of one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Cover the bottom of the frying-pan with some clear dripping, about quarter of an inch in depth. Place the pan on the fire, and when the dripping ceases hissing, put in the liver and bacon. The bacon will be done first; remove it, and in five minutes turn the liver. When the latter is -done enough, dish it with the liver, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be made as in the last recipe. Time, a qiiarter of an h&ur. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for two or tliree persons. Liver Kldsse (a German recipe).-Take half a pound of raw liver, and two ounces of fat bacon. Mmce them together very finely • add a little salt and pepper, and finely-minced parsley, together with three ounces of finelv- gi-ated bread-crumbs. Mix three well-beaten eggs with an ounce and a half of butter which has been worked with the fingers to a cream. Put these with the mince, then make cW'If "i? «^&-«haped baUs^ beLg M^iiX^SdS:^!^.-^