BBE BBE ( 77 ) gone low, and let them stay all night; roU t hem next morning into crumbs. Put into a f ry- ■ng-pan some butter or lard, and when it is on t he point of boiling, add the bread-crumbs. Stu- them till they are of a clear brown colour. Take them out with a slice, and put them on blotting-paper before the lire, to draw away aU the fat; or thev may be browned in a gentle oven without butter. Bread-crumbs so prepared are useful for serving with game of any sort. Bread Crusts Toasted for Soup.— Toast bread crusts in front of a very small lire, sind on a wire toaster. When brown on both sides, cut the bread into very small dice before serving. Untoasted bread swells, and is likely 10 spoil the appearance of the soup. Crusts for toasted cheese are pulled, rough pieces, from a fresh loaf, and then browned in the oven or in front of a fire. Bread Custard Pudding.—Make a custard according- to the size of pudding re- quired. A pint of custard will fill a medium- .sized dish. Cut slices of thin bread and but- ter, to suit the dish, and over each layer throw currants, sugar, and finely-cut candied lemon, and a little nutmeg. Pour the custard over by degrees so that the bread may be well saturated, and let it stand an hour before put- ting it into the oven. Just before it is put in, throw over the last of the custard, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Probable cost, about Is. Sufficient for five or six people. Bread, French.—Stir into foui- pounds of flour flavoured with three ounces of salt, half a pint of good sweet yeast, the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of three beaten sepa- rately, and a pint of warm milk. Stir all till well mixed into a thin dough, and let it rise for a few minutes. Make the dough into loaves of the size required, and bake in a brisk oven with or without tins. Time to bake, from three- quarters to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for three loaves. Bread Tried for Soup.—Take one or two slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick. Remove the crust and cut them into email dice not more than a quarter of an inch square. Half fill an iron saucepan with frying fat and let this boil, which it will do when it is still, and a blue smoke rises from it. Put the sippets a few at a time into a frying basket, plunge them into the fat, and shake them about until they are a golden brown colour. Turn them upon kitchen paper to free them from grease, take another spoonful and proceed as before until a sufficient quantity of sippets are fried. Put the fried bread upon a dish covered with a napkin, and hand round with the soup. Sometimes the sippets are put into the soup tureen, and the soup is poured over thttn. Bread Grater.—A bread-grater is a tin cylinder perforated with holes upon each side, and as its name implies is used to crumble bread for forcemeats, &c. Although many cooks dispense with it entirely, and merely rub tho bread between the palms of the hands, the crumbs thus prepared are not nearly so smooth and even as when this little article is used. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Bread, Home-made.—Make a cavity in the middle of a quartern of flour, and stir into it a pint of warm milk or water, four table- spoonfuls of good yeast, and a little salt. Cover it up and set it before the fire to rise. If set over night make up next morning, then add half a pint more milk or water, and knead it into a dough for ten minutes. Set it by the fire for one hour and a half, then make into loaves, and bake from one hour and a half to two hours, according to size. If equal quantities of meal and flour be used, this will make an excellent brown bread. Bread, Household.—To ten pounds of flour in a kneading-trough put a small handful of salt. Stir into this about two quarts of water, more or less, as some flour absorbs more water than others. For very white bread, made with superfine flour, the dough should be softer than for seconds or bro^wn bread. In summer the water may be lukewarm; in winter, con- siderably warmer, btit never hot enough to kill the yeast. After the water is mixed with the flour, add a cupful of good yeast, then knead the bread, and leave it to rise in a warm place, covered with a cloth. If all goes well, it wiU rise sufficiently in the course of an hour or an hour and a half. Then divide it into rolls, loaves, or tin-breads, as wanted, and bake. For a three-pound loaf, take three pounds and a half of dough; for a four-pound loaf, four pounds eleven ounces; for a six-pound loaf, six pounds and three- quarters; and for an eight-pound loaf, nine pounds of dough. Bread, Household (another way).—It often happens that household bread, from a little want of care, is found bitter and unpalatable. To remedy this, the yeast or barm should be put into water over night. Next day peel and boil three pounds of potatoes, beating them to a pulp, and pass through a colander, with a pint of cold water to haK a pint of good sweet yeast. Mix the potato pulp and yeast thoroughly to- gether, and then pour it into a hollow made in the middle of one peck of flour. Stir some of the floirr into the mixture, till it is like a thick batter, then cover with a little of the dry flour, throw a cloth over the pan, and set it near the fire to rise. In about an hour mix it with five pints of lukewarm water and two ounces of salt, to a dough. Cover it up again as before, and let it stand this time about two hours, then knead it into loaves, and bake for an hour and a half in a good oven. Probable cost, about 7 ad. per four-pound loaf. Bread, Indian Corn.—Mix half a pint of white Indian meal, coarsely ground, -with one pint of fresh milk, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Get ready a tin of, say four inches dia- meter at the bottom, and three inches deep, grease it well, and pour in the batter which should only half fill the dish. Bake in a toler- ably quick oven and serve very hot, on a white d'oyley, or, if preferred, halve it and butter it. Time, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons.