CAL CAL ( 101 ) cheek, cutting quite through to tho bone, according to the dotted lines from A to b. With each of these slices serve a cut of what calf's head foe cabvikg. is called the throat sweetbread, which lies at the fleshy part of the neck end. Cut also slices from c to D; they are gelatinous and delicate, and serve small pieces with the meat. A little of the tongue and a spoonful of the brains are usually placed on each plate. The tongue is served on a separate plate, surrounded by the brains, and is cut across in rather thin sUces. Some persons prefer the eye. It is removed by a circular cut mai'ked by dotted lines at e. First put the knife in slanting at f, inserting the point at the part of the dotted line, and driving it into the centre under the eye; then turn the hand round, keeping the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife, the point stUl in the centre. The eye will como out entire, cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at g ; and to do this properly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it should always be offered to each guest. Calf's Head -with Mushrooms.— Take half a calf s head with the skin on, wash it in two or three waters, and boil it about an hour, or until the bones can be removed with- out very much difficulty. Remove the bones, replace the brain, and put the head into a stew- pan with the skin downwards, and just cover it with good brown gravy, season it with salt and cayenne, and let it simmer for half an hour. Rub two dozen button ! mushrooms with a flannel and a little salt, cut the ends off the stalks, which must be separated from the mushrooms, and then put them into a stewpan with a little hot butter, and boil them in it for five minutes, taking care that they do not stick to the pan. Drain them, and put them into the gravy, which may be thickened with a little ground rice, and stew all together for another hour. Serve with veal forcemeat balls, and a few rashers of fried bacon. Time, two and a half hours. Probable cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Cairs Head, with Oysters.—Boil half a calf's head in tho usual way, remove the brains, and only just cover it with water, fla- voui-ing it with two onions stuck with five or sLx cloves, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsleyj a sprig of marjoram and thyme, and a little salt and cayenne. When' the head is tender, take it out, strain the liquor, thicken a large breakfast-cupful of it with a dessert-spoonful of fiour, and add the liquor from two dozen oysters, and a breakfast-cupful of milk. Put in the head and simmer again for half an hour. Just before serving, put in the oysters; let them get hot, but do not allow them to boil ot they will be hard. Serve with the oysters round the dish. Time, two hours. The ex- pense of this dish will be much lessened if tinned oysters are used. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Calf's Heart, Boasted. — Wash the heart thoroughly in several waters, then leave it to soak for half an hour. Wipe it drj-, and fill it with good veal stuffing, tie a piece of oiled paper round it, and roast it before a good fire an hour and a half or more, according to tho size. Before serving, take off the paper, sprinkle some flour over it, and baste it well. Send it to table with plenty of good brown gravy, and some fried bacon on a separate dish. Calf's Kidney. — The kidney of a calf may be made into balls, fried in hot butter or oil, and served with good brown gravy and toasted sippets. They must be chopped and made up with bread-ci'umbs, chopped onions, butter, salt, cayenne, and a beaten egg. Time to fry, ten minutes. The kidney is usually sold with the loin. Probable cost, kidneys, 6d. or 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Calf's Liver (Mock Pate de Foie Gras). —Soak some calf's liver for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into thin slices, each of which must be dipped in egg, and minced herbs, salt, and pepper strewn over it. Place a layer of these at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of bacon, and over these some sliced truffles and hard-boiled eggs. Repeat until th© dish is full. Pour some good gravy over the whole, cover with a light crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not overcrowd the meat in the dish, as there should be plenty of jelly. It must be eaten cold. Time to bake, one hour and a half. One pound of calf's liver will suffice for four or five persons. Calf's Liver, Stewed.—Take two or three pounds of liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then put it into a stew- pan with a little melted butter, and let it brown lightly ; pour off the fat, and cover it with some nicely-flavotired stock, and let it stew very gently for a couple of hours or more. Thicken the gravy, and put a couple of glasses of port into it, and the juice of a lemon, or, if pre- ferred, white wine. It is an improvement to lard the liver before putting it into the stew- pan, or finely-minced herbs may be strewn over it after browning. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. (See also Liver, Fried.) Calf's Pluck.—Stuff the heart with a veal forcemeat to which a little bacon has been