( 241 ) GAB GAM Game Stock.—The remains of cold roast game, and the bones and trimmings, should be stewed down, and will make good stock. Put some lean ham at the bottom of the stow, and on this lay the game. Just cover it with stock or water, and boil it quickly down to a glaze. Add more liquid, allowing a pint of water to 3very pound of trimmings. Flavour with carrots, turnips, onions, &c., remove the scum as it rises, and stew gently for three or four hours. Strain it oft' for use. Game, To Devil.—Some hours before the devil is wanted, the flesh should be rather deeply scored, and covered with a powder made of equal parts of salt, cayenne, and curry powder, with the addition, if liked, of mushroom or truffle powder, butter and mustard. Broil over a hot clear fire, until brightly browned and hot, but not burnt. Devilled game is oftener than not eaten diy, as a relish with wine. When sauce is wanted, it may be made by putting a break- fast-cupful of thick brown gravy into a sauce- pan, with a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a shallot finely minced, a spoonful of ketchup, the juice and finely-grated rind of a lemon, a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve in a tmeen. The devilled game will be all the better if the meat has been under-dressed. Moor game is particularly suited to this mode of cookery. Time, a few minutes to broil the bones. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the game. Allow one or two bones for each person. Game, To Devil (another way).—Take equal parts of salt, cayenne pepper, and curry powder, with double the quantity of powdered mushrooms or truffles. Split open a brace of woodcocks, rather imder-roasted, cut them into small pieces, score these pieces, and rub the powder weU into them. Crush the trail and brains, and mix them with a hard-boiled egg, the rind of half a lemon, finely-grated, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a dessert-spoon- ful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and the juice of half a Seville orange. Mix these ingre- dients smoothly together, and put them with the game into a silver stew-dish, over a lamp. Simmer gently, stirring frequently, till the game has absorbed most of the liquid, then throw in a spoonful of salad-oU, stir it round quickly, and serve instantly. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the game and wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Game, To Keep from Tainting.— While it is very desirable that game should be hung a proper length of time, to render the flesh tender and in proper condition, it is most undesirable that it should be served at table in a state offensive to sight and smeU. Choose birds which are not much mangled by shot. Hang them, if possible, in a cool place, where there is a current of air blowing right through. Be careful to preserve them from flies; black pepper wiU do this. Examine them every day, and if there is danger that they will not keep, draw, pick, and crop them, place them on a dish, cover them with muslin, and sprinkle a little poundc;! charcoal under and over them. If they appear already spoilt, they may often be made tit for eating by washing in vinegar and water, or by washing and thoroughly rubbing thorn with salt, and putting them for ten minutes in boiling water. Take them out, hang them in a cool place, and powder them lightly over with charcoal. If game is tainted, wash it before roasting, but if not, it should not be touched with water. Game is as often spoilt by being frozen as by being too fresh. In frosty weather it should be brought into the warm kitchen three or four hours before it is cooked. Charcoal may be made by putting a piece of wood in the oven, and letting it remain until it is burnt through, and quite black. Game, To Remove Taint from.— Wash the game first in salt and water, aud afterwards in fresh water, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth before cooking; or put some fresh powdered charcoal, tied in muslin, inside the crop. Take the charcoal out, and throw it away, before sending the bird to table. Garbure.—This is a dish used in the north of Europe—something between a soup, a stew, and a bake. It may be composed of almost anything, but neither meat, vegetables, nor bi"own or rye bread, must be absent. Beat three pounds of lean beef, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a knuckle of ham or veal, two large onions Ituck with six cloves, a bunch of parsley, and five or six sliced carrots. Pour over these a pint of water, and simmer gently imtil the juice of the beef is drawn out, then add two quarts of water or stock, and simmer over a moderate fire for two hours. Put two yoimg cabbages into another saucepan, place a layer of bacon under and over them, and add half a pint of stock; cover closely, and stew gently imtil the cab- bages are sufficiently cooked. Toast a lai-ge slice of rye or brown bread; place the cabbages on this, with the meat above them, and a string of fried sausages all round. The liquid in which the meat was stewed may be served as soup. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gardener's Omelet. — Beat half a dozen eggs, season them with pepper and salt, and mix in some finely-minced vegetables— either salad, green peas, French beans, powdered herbs, or whatever the season affords. Green peas and French beans must be cooked before they are mixed with the eggs. Make the omelet in the usual way. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the vegetables. Sufficient for foirr persons. Garfish.—These fish are not much liked on accoimt of their strong oily taste. The oil, however, lies in the skin, and if it be taken quite off, the flesh is not to be despised. The garfish may be either boiled, broiled, baked, or stewed, or cooked as follows'. — Take off the skin, cut the fish into pieces about one inch and a half long, and put them into a marinade made of vinegar, oil, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and two or three cloves. Let them He an hour or two, then put them into a jar, cover them closely, add a little gravy, if necessary, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water.