THE PEINCIPLES OF COOKING AND TABLE MANAGEMENT. THE WHY AND THE WHEREFORE OF BOILING, GRILLING, AND FRYING. ^ 'T would be a good thing for everybody—for we must all eat—if those who cook our food were in one respect to resemble what are called troublesome children. Who has not at some time or other met with a child who is always asking, Why V And, alas ! how often do we hear his thirst for knowledge restrained with some remark such as ''Little boys should not ask questions." This too often means that the one questioned does not know what to say, and is too vain to confess it. Now, if those who cook for us would only turn a little more in- quisitive, and occasionally ask, " Whyl" we should have better dinners. / ^ Why ought you to put a leg of mutton into boiling water ? Why [ T ought you to put meat for soup into cold water 1 Why does the souffle V ^ rise ? Cooks, and good ones too, often know facts but not reasons; they consequently are limited to a certain number of recipes which they have learnt by heart, but are quite incapable of either invention or imitation. A good cook, with a good palate, after seeing and tasting a dish, ought to be able to make one, if not exactly like it, yet near enough to pass for it; but I fear the faculty is, to say the least, rare. If we understood more than we do the principles on which cooking depends, the fact of being able to make one dish, combined with knowing the reasons for the result, would often lead to our being able to make a large variety of similar dishes, which a very slight inventive talent would enable us to vary so much in flavour, that instead of knowing one recipe we should know twenty. It is evident that in all cooking one of two great principles must constantly be brought into play. One, to keep the flavour in ; another, to get the flavour out. Let us for one moment contrast boiling a leg of mutton, and making good mutton broth. It is evident that in the one case, as we eat the mutton, our endeavour shovdd be to keep as much flavour in the meat as possible; in the second place, as what we want is the broth, our endeavour should be to leave as little flavoiir in the mutton as possible. Now there are many persons who positively proceed to prepare both almost the same way. There is a certain principle, or rather fact, which may be called a chemical fact, and that is, that albumen coagulates and becomes hard at boiling-point. This very important fact should never be lost sight of in cooking meat, for it should be remembered that meat largely consists of albumen. First, then, the leg of mutton. Place the leg of mutton in boiling water, this will take the water off the boil; let the saucepan remain on the fire till the wat<ir boils Intko.I