CAL ( 93 ) CAL round the atomach of the calf, and in some parts they fonn a favourite dish. They niay be served in two or three ways. First wash and cleanse them thoroughly. Lay them in salt and water for a night, place them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then dip into cold water, and drain them. Cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a little stock, two or throe slices of bacon, an onion, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper. Let them simmer gently, and when done place them in a hot dish, reduce the gi'avy, thicken it with a little flour, add vinegar and sliced cucumber, and serve as a sauce. Or, prepare as above. After being boiled a quarter of an hour, dip the pieces into a little batter, and fry them in boilmg dripping imtil they are a light brown, then serve with fried parsley. Or, prepare as above. After being boiled for a quarter of an hour rub them over with butter, and bake in a good oven. CalfsEars (a la Bechamel). Cut off four calves' ears rather deeply, trim them evenly, «cald the hair off, and cleanse them thoroughly. Boil them in milk and water till tender; then di-ain them, and fill the inside of each with a little veal forcemeat; tie them with thread, and stew them in a pint of stock, seasoned with pepper and salt, and an onion with three cloves stuck in it. When done, drain them. Add a dozen stewed mushrooms, and the yolk of an egg- beaten in a cupful of cream, to the liquor in which they were boiled, first taking out the onion and cloves. Put the ears into a dish, pour the sauce round them, and garnish with forcemeat balls and sliced lemon. Time to stew, about half an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calf's Ears (a la Neapolitaine).—Prepare the ears as above. Place them in a saucepan vnth rashers of bacon under and over, suf- ficient stock to cover the whole, and simmer gently until sufficiently cooked. When done, drain and fill them with a forcemeat made of four ounces of crumbs, a cupful of mUk, four ounces of Parmesan cheese, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of two eggs. ^ Tie them well with thread, then dip them in butter, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry till they are a light brown. Time to frj', ten minutes. Sufficient for three or four persons. CalPs Feet.—Calfs feet are generally prepared for boiling by the butcher; but if this is not done, they should be put into water just upon the point of boiling, and kept in it for two or three minutes, when the hair must be scraped off, the hoofs knocked off on the Rdgo _ of the sink, the claws split, and the fat that is between them taken away. They must then bo washed with scrupulous care and nicety. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Calf's Teet and Sauce—Thoroughly cleanse two calfs feet; place them in a sauce- pan, and pour over them three pints of cold water. Let them simmer gently for four hours, then split them in halves, and trim nicely, cut them into neat pieces, and drain the water from them. Take a cupful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, mix with them a small onion chopped small, a little grated nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of a salt-spoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces into egg, then into the crumbs, and fiy them in boiling oil or butter until nicely browned. Put them in the middle of a hot dish, with a sauce round them made as follows:—Chop finely three large onions, three large mushrooms, and three tomatoes. Put these into a saucepan with a grain of powdered ginger, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of mustard, a little cayenne, a small piece of sugar, and a glassful of white wine. ISimmer gently, stirring all the time, till the onions are tender. Time to stew the feet, four hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Calfs Foot (a la Poulette).—Calf8 feet which have been boiled for stock may (if not too much cooked) be made into an agreeable dish by serving them in a little Poulette sauce. Take out the bones, press the meat till cold, and cut it into neat pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, let it melt, then add gradually a table-spoonful of flour. Mix the paste thoroughly with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes, until it is quite smooth; then dilute it with the third of a pint of nicely-fla- voured stock, and keep on stirring for ten or fif- teen minutes. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, thicken the soup with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and season with a little pepper and salt. Put the jjieces of calf's feet into the sauce, let them become hot, without boiling, stir in a little lemon-juice, and serve. Chopped parsley, shalots, or mushrooms should be added to this sauce. Sufficient for two feet. Calf's Foot, Baked or Stewed.— Wash a calf's foot very carefully, and rub it over with pepper, salt, and a little powdered cinnamon. Place it in a saucepan or dish, and cover it wdth a pint and a half of water. The knuckle- bone of a ham, the end of a dried tongue, or even a few pieces of beef may be added, with a little celery, an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and a carrot. Let these simmer either in the oven or on the fire for tlu-ee or foui- hours. In either case they must be closely covered. When quite tender, take out the bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces.. Strain the gravy, skinaming oft' the fat, add to it a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of ground rice. Let it boil up, then put in the pieces of meat, a squeeze of lemon-juice, a glass of white wine, and serve hot. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. per foot. One foot will be found sufficient for one or two persons. Calf's Foot Boiled with Parsley and Butter. — Thoroughly clean two calf s feet, divide them at the joint, and split the hoofs. Put three rashers of bacon into a stew- pan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg, a large onion stuck with five or six cloves, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Care must be taken not to put too much salt, as the bacon will probably supply what is neces- sary. Lay the feet on the bacon, and cover the whole with one pint of stook. lict them simmer