CUR ( no) CUB epoonful of sugar. Let it stand by the side of the tiro until tho flavour of the lemon is ex- tracted, and the butter dissolved. Put it aside to cool. Whisk tho yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, mix with them a pound of boiled potatoes which have been rubbed through a sieve, add the milk, &c., and pour into buttered cups. The cups must not be much more than half tilled. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Allow one for each person. Curd.—Tho most usual way to "turn" milk, as it is called, that is, to make it curdle, is to mix it, when warm, but not hot, with, a little rennet, and let it stand in a warm place until the curd is solid and the whe> clear. Rennet is made by obtaining from the butcher the dried inner stomach of a calf, and soaking a tiny piece of it in a cupful of hot water for four hours. The liquid at the end of that time is what is called rennet. An inch of the dried skin so soaked in water will turn a gallon. The less rennet used, the more delicate will be the curd. The skin may be kept a long time if it is hung in a cool place; it should be covered to protect it from dust. Rennet may also be bought at the grocer's in small bottles at Is. each. A little lump of alum put into cold milk and set on the fire will turn milk, or a few weU-beaten eggs stirred in just as the milk is boiling. A pinch of salt added after the milk curdles will assist the whey to separate. Whey is by some considered a wholesome drink for feverish persons, and in country places the lasses often wash in it to improve their complexions. Curd Cheesecakes.—Turn one quart of milk with a little rennet; drain oflE the whey, and mix with the curd a piece of butter the size of a large egg, beaten to a cream; press it through a coarse sieve, and mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar, the peel of a lemon finely shred, two table-spoonfuls of currants, two-well-beaten eggs, and a dozen sweet and two bitter almonds, blanched and pounded. Line some patty-pans with a good crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Curd Fritters.—Press a pint of curds through a mortar, and mix with it the whites of two and the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, a dessert-spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a pinch of pounded cinnamon. Put some lard into a frying-pan, let it get quite hot, drop the batter into it, fry until lightly browned, drain the fritters from the fat, and serve them as hot as possible. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for five or six persons. Curd Pudding.—Turn a quart of milk with a httle rennet; drain oft' the whey, and mix the curd with two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, three table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfula of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of new milk, a couple of fresh eggs, and a glass of white wine. Butter some plain round moulds, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake thorn in a good oven for about twenty minutes. Turn them out, sift a Uttle sugar over them, stick a few sliced and blanched almonds in them, and serve with cura(,'oa sauce. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curd star.—Put a pint of milk, the rind of a lemon, and a tiny pinch of salt into a saucepan, and mix with it, when boiling, four eggs well beaten ; boil until it curdles, sweeten, and season it with a little wine, and let it boil until the whey separates entirely. Drain it through a colander or any round or star-shaped mould that has holes in it, and when it is cold and firm, and tho whey has drained quite off, turn it out and serve with custard round tho dish, but not upon the star. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, is. 2d, including the custard. Sufficient for four persons. Curds and Cream.—Curd is usually served in a dish with cream, sweetened and flavoured, poured round it; it should be drained from the whey and flavoured with a little light wine. Time, a quarter of an hour to separate the curd. Sufficient, a quart of milk curdled and a pint of cream for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2s. Currants.—Under the general name currants are included the red, white, and black currants which grow in our gardens, and the small dried grapes imported into this countrj'' which are sold in the grocers' shops, and which are so largely used in making cakes and puddings. The juice of red, white, and black currants is specially adapted for medicinal purposes, and the fruit is also extensively used for jams, jellies, tarts, and dessert. Currant and Raspberry Tart.—The addition of a few raspberries very greatly im- proves the flavour of a red ciirrant tart, but they must be carefully looked over to see that there are no httle worms inside the berries after they are picked. Strip the currants from the stalks, and allow three heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar to every quart of fruit. Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with good crust {see Crust for Fruit Tarts). Place an inverted cup in the middle of the dish. Fill the latter with the fruit, and cover it with the same crust as the edges. Ornament the top as fancy dictates, and bake in a good oven. Sift a little poimded sugar over the tart before serving it. Time to bake, haK an hour or more, according to the size of the dish. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Currant Cakes.—For currant cakes baked in a dish or mould several recipes have already been given under Christmas Cakes, Plum Cakes, &c.; two or three more are given here for cakes, which may either be dropped tn small rounds on a buttered tin, or put into a buttered dish, and baked in a quick oven. Clean and pick two ounces of currants; rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into half a pound of flour, add the currants, a little grated nutmeg, and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Mix all together with two well-bcaten eggs, a table-spoonful of brandy, and sufficient new milk to make a lighi