( 606 ) PAH Is. for tiiia quantity. Sufficient for eix. or eight porsoua. Parpnip Fritters.—Boil four good-dizod parsnips in sultwl wiitor until quito tundor. Drain tliom, boat tlieni to u pulp, and then squoozo tho -wator from tlium us much as pos- aiblo. Bind them togothor by mixing smoothly ■with thom an egg and a dossort-spoonful of flour. Make thom into oval cakus with a spoon, and fry in hot di-ipping until they are lightly browned on both sides. Drain them on an inverted sieve, and serve neatly piled on a hot napkin. Time to boil the parsnips, an hom- er more; to fry them, a few minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Pudding.—Wash, scrape, and boil four or five largo parsnips, mash thom, and press them thi'ough a colander. Stir in with them a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring, one oimce of fresh butter, and four well-beaten eggs, together with two table- spoonfuls of brandy, if approved. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and strew finely- grated bread-crumbs thickly over; divide one otrnce of butter into small pieces, and place these here and there upon the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve %vith sweet sauce. This pudding may be boiled instead of baked. When this is done, the mould into which the mixture is put should be thickly lined with finely-grated bread-crumbs before the pudding is put in. Time, about an hour and a half to "bake ; an hour and a quarter to boil. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Soup.—Put half a dozen sliced parsnips into a stewpan, with two onions, half a dozen sticks of celery, and two quarts of good light-coloured stock. Stew the vegetables until they are tender, then drain them, press them through a coarse sieve, and return the puree to the soup. Let it boil, flavour with a little salt and pepper, or cayenne, and serve very hot. A little boiling milk may be added if liked. The excessive sweetness of parsnip soup may be corrected by the addition of a little tomato, or a table-spoonful of chilli vinegar. Time, about two hours to stew the vegetables. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parsnip Wine.—This beverage is highly spoken of by those who are accustomed to home-made wines. Clean and quarter the roots, carefully remove any spongy or decayed portions from thom, and cut them into pieces about four inches long. After they are thus prepared, weigh them, and boil them, allowing four or five poiinds of the roots to each gallon of water. When they are tender, without being pulpy, leave the lid o£E the copper for a short time, to allow the strong aromatic odour which will arise to escape, then strain the liquid through a hair sieve into a tub, and be careful in doing so not to bruise the roots. Add immediately haK an oimce of powdered white argol to eacb gallon of -svme, and when it has been stirred a few minutes, introduce three pounds of loaf sugar, and stir again until the latter ia dissolved. Leave the liquid uncovered until it is almost cold, that is, until it ia reduced to a temperature of eighty-five degrees. Cut a thick round of bread from a half-quartern loaf, toast it, and moisten it with fresh yeast (two table-spoonfuls will be sufficient for six gallons of wine) ; put this into tho Uquid, cover tho vessel which contains it with a flannel, and stir it every day until tho fermentation sub- sides. Tho vessel should be kept in a room or cellar where from fifty to fifty-five degrees may bo kept up, and the yeast should be skimmed oif as it forms. In ten days or a fortnight the wine may be turned into the cask. If a sweet wine is wanted the barrel should be filled to tha bung, and left for a few days; then as it overflows it should be tilled up with a small quantity of the liquid which has been preserved for the purpose. When it is quiet, the hole may be covered with a piece of brown paper, and if that remains immoved for a week the cask may be loosely bunged down, and in a day or two, when the " fretting" is quite over, made tight. This wine may be racked off in six months, but should not be bottled for at least a year. When a dry wine is wanted, leave the hquid in the open vessel until aU the beer yeast has risen and been skimmed off, then put it into the cask, and leave an inch or two of space in the barrel; frequently stir in the yeasty froth, and to prevent the liquor escaping cover it with a slate. Skim the liquor thoroughly before securing it, and be careful not to fill up the cask imtil the wine is quite tranquil. Time to ferment the liquid, ten or fourteen days, until the fermentation subsides. Probable cost, Is. lOd. per gallon. Parsnip Wine, A Simple Way of Making.—Take eighteen pounds of parsnips, and ten gallons of water. Boil the parsnips in the water till they are qxiite soft, then strain and squeeze out the liquor, and to every gallon add three pounds of liunp sugar. Boil for three-quarters of an hour, and when cool, ferment with a little yeast on a toast. Let the liquid stand ten days in a tub, stirring every day. At the end of that time put it into a cask. The parsnip wine will be fit for bottling in six or seven months. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash and scrape the parsnips, and carefully remove any blemishes there may be about them. Cut them into quarters, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Let them boil quickly, until they are sufficiently tender for a fork or skewer to pierce them easily, then take them up, drain them, and send them to table as quickly as possible. The water in which parsnips are boiled should be carefully skimmed two or three times after the roots are put in. Time, from half an hour to an hour and a half, according to the age and size of the parsnips. Probable cost, Ijd. each. Sufficient, one large parsnip for two persons. Parsnips, Boiled, Cold.—Cold parsnips are very good when eaten with cold meat. To warm them up, put them into an earthen jar, cover closelv. and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boilmg for about twenty minutes; the parsnips may