HAD (m) HAG Haddock, Stewed.—Take a large fresh hiuidui k, cut oil' tlio lueut in lillets, and divide thi'S(! iutu iiuiit inuci^. Put the hoiw.H mid trimmings into a saucepan with a quart of water, an onion, a cnrrot, and half a dozen peppercorns, and lot them sinunor gently for half an hour. Strain the gravy, flour the elicos of tish, and fry them in hot lard or drip- ping till thoy are briglitly browned. Put thorn into the soup, and season it with salt, cayenne, and a table-spoonful of ketchup! Serve in a soup-tureen. Time, altogether, one hour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost. Is. Haddock, Yorkshire Mode of Dressing.—Take a perfectly fresh haddock. Empty and wash it, rub it with a httle salt, both inside and out, and hang it in an airy, cool situation for two days. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer it gently for ten minutes. Take it up, drain it, remove the head and the skin, dip it in beaten egg, or a little thin flour and water, and strew over it some rather highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Pour a table- spoonful of clarified butter over the fish, and put it in a Dutch oven before the fire until it is nicely browned. Boil an egg six minutes ; pound the yolk, and mix it with a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Chop the white into small dice, stir them into the sauce, and serve in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour to toast. Sufficient for two persons. Probable cost, 9d. or more. Haddocks in Brown Sauce.— Take eight or nine small haddocks; wash, dry, and empty them, and put three of them into a sauce- pan, with a quart of good stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large onion, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Cut the meat from the remaining half- dozen fish in fillets {see Haddock, Fillets of), remove the skin, and put the heads, tails, and trinunings into the saucepan with the grav)\ Simmer gently for an hour and a half, then strain the gravj"-, season it rather highly with spices and cayenne, and brown it with a little brown roux [see Gravy, Brown, Roux for). Put in the slices of fish, and boU them about ten minutes. When sufficiently cooked, lift them carefully out with a slice, place them on a hot dish, and pour the gravy over them. A little claret may be added, and it is an improve- ment to add also two dozen oysters, with their liquor. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost of small haddocks suitable for this purpose, 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Haddocks in Brown Sauce (another way).—Prepare three or four small haddocks an in the last recipe. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, and, when it is melted, mix smoothly with it one table-spoonful of flour. Keep stirring it with a wooden spoon until it is browned, but not burnt, and add gradually as much boiling stock or water as will nearly cover the fish. Add one salt-spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Let it simmer gently until the sauce is smooth and thick, then put in the fillets, and let them remain until sufficiently cooked. Flavour with mush- room ketchup and a glass of claret, if likod. Lift the pieces of fish carefully out with a slice. place thom on u hot disli, Hnd pour the sauce over them. Time, one hour. Vrobal,le cost, od. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Haddocks, To Keep.—Scrape and wash the lish. Empty th(;ni. Open them below the vent, so that the blood may be cleared from the backbone. Take out the eyes, and put a little salt m the bodies. Let them lie a few hours, then put a long wood(;n skewer through the eyes, and hang them in a dry place for a day or two. They may be cooked like dried or Finnan haddocks {see Haddock, Finnan). Time, three or four days. Haggis.—This dish, which is highly prized in Scotland, and spoken of by her national bard as the " great chieftain o' the pudding race," is made from the stomach, or pluck, of a calf, sheep, or lamb; that of the sheep, how- ever, is most used. It is boiled in the stomach- bag, and care should be taken that no thin HAOaiS. parts are left unrepaired in the latter, or it may burst in boiling, and the haggis be spoilt. It is seldom eaten on this side the Border, ex- cept amongst Scotchmen. When partly boiled a haggis will keep for two or three weeks, and is often sent in this state from Scotland to friends in other parts. Hearne, the American traveller, recommends that it should be mixed with blood instead of gra^y, and roasted instead of boiled; but when this is done, it must not be placed too near the fire at first, or it wiU burst. Those who have tasted it in perfec- tion -Nvill agree that a haggis is a most delicious morsel, even when served without pepper, salt, or any seasoning. Haggis, Cairs.—The following recipe is copied, word for word, from a recipe in a cookerj'-book published, by 3Irs. M'lver, of Edinburgh, in 1787 :—"Make the haggis-bag (the paunch of a sheep) perfectly clean, parboil the draught, boil the liver very well, so that it will grate; dry the meal before the fire, mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very small, grate about half of the liver, mince plenty of the suet and some of the small onions. Mix all these materials together with a handful or two of the dried meal, spread them on the table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices. Take any scraps of beef left from the mincing, and some of the water that is boiled with the draught, and make about a chopin (a quart) of good stock with it. Thou put all the haggis-meat into the bag with Iho broth, and sew it up, first making sure to press out all the wind. It will require at least two hours' boiling."