APR APB ( 27 ) high in the middle. Strew over them a little sifted sugar, and a few of the kernels blanched and chopped small. Cover them with a good light crust, and buko in a moderate oven. Tuao to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for four or live persons. Apricot Preserve.—Peel and stone some moderalclj- lipo apricots; put them at night in a deep jar between layers of crushed loaf sugar. Next morning pour over them some white cun-ant juice, or white wine, and place the jar in a largo saucepan of water, which must be kept boUing until the sugar is completely dissolved; then take the saucepan off the fire and let it get cold. Place the fruit and syrup in a preserving-pan, and boil very gently until the fruit is tender. AUow half a pint of juice and a poimd and a half of sugar to every pound of fruit. Time to simmer, forty minutes. Apricot Pudding.—Pour a pint of new milk (boiling) over six table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs. Let them stand until cold. Then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, two table- spoonfuls of sherry, a slight flavouring of the essence of almonds, and four ounces of sifted sugar. Beat them thoroughly, then add to them twelve apricots which have been pared, stoned, and simmered gently until they have been reduced to a pulp. Lastly, whisk the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the rest. Place the whole in a pie-dish which has been lined with good puff paste, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricot Pudding, Baked. — Peel, stone, and halve a dozen fresh ripe apricots: place them in a saucepan with a glassful of white wine, and let them simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take them from the fire, and add four of the kernels blanched and pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Beat them with a fork; then mix with them four sponge-cates crumbled, a break- fast-cupful of new mUk, and three eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake immediately. This pudding may be eaten hot or cold. If cold, turn it out into a glass dish, and pour round it a good custard. Time to bake, forty minutes. Suffi- cient for six persons. Probable cast, Is. lOd., with apricots, Id. each. Apricot Ratafia.—Cover some sliced apricots with white winp, and simmer them gently until they are reduced to a pulp; then pour them into an earthen jar. Add to them a cupful of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of sugar to each quart of liquid. Put in -with them three or four of the kernels of the fruit broken in pieces, with a little mace, cloves, and cinnamon. Let these materials macerate in the ratafia for a fortnight; then strain the liquid, and preserve it in well-closed vessels. Time to simmer the apricots, half an hour. Apricot Souflae.—Pare, stone, and slice one dozen large ripe apricots. Place them in a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and three of water. Let them simmer gently until reduced to a pulp, then mix in very smoothly three table-spoonfuls of ground rice ORNAMENTAL SOUFFLi: DISH. or flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a breakfast-cupful of cream or new milk. When the liquid boils poux it out and add to it the yolks of six eggs. Well oil the souffle- PLAIN SOUFFL^ DISH. tin, and at the last moment add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Bake in a quick oven, and let the souffle be served directly it is taken out, or it wUl be spoilt both in taste and appearance. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 2s., if made with milk ; apricots, Id. each. Sufficient for a moderate-sized tin. Apricot Syrup.—Takeoff the skins from some ripe apricots, stone them, and cut them into small pieces; place them in a dish, and strew over them a thin layer of sifted sugar. Let them remain a couple of hours; place them in a saucepan ^vith a little water, and let them simmer gently until they are soft. Strain the juice, and add to it sugar in the proportion of a poimd to a pint. Boil it gently, skimming thoroughly all the time; let it get cold, then bottle it; it will be found useful to flavour custards, cream ices, &c. The fruit in the jelly-bag must not be squeezed. After the juice has run from it, it will make very nice tartlets, with the addition of a little sugar. Time to boil with the sugar, ten or twelve minutes, by which time it will become thick and clear. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Apricot Tart, Green.—Take as many green apricots as may be requii-ed for the dish: put them into a saucepan with a little water, to keep them from burning, and half their weight in sugar. When they are soft through, put them, with the syrup, into a pie-dish which has been lined at the edges with good puff paste. Pile them high in the middle, cover, and bake in a good oven. The dish wiU be much im- proved in appearance if it is iced before sending to the table. To do this, beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, lay on the tart, and shake sifted loaf sugar over it; then put it into a moderate oven for five minutes to set. It