HOE Cover it closoly, to oxdudo tho air, and Htoro it in a fOol, iliy placo. It nuiy thus bu ktjpt good for somo mouths. Honey Noyau, for Flavouring.— BlaiU'h and puuiul an ounco of swcot ahiujiids and two oimcos of bitter ahnonds; mix with them a pound of sifted sugar, and pour over them two pints of gin mixed with half a pint of milk, which has been boiled with a largo taljle- spoonful of honey, and allowed to cool. Add tho t hin rind and strained juice of a largo lemon, and pour all into a good-sized bottle. Shako tho mixture frequently. In twelve days it will be ready for use. Filter through blotting-jmper, and keep in bottles securely corked. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of tho gin. Sufficient for a little more than three pints of flavouring. Honey, Orange Marmalade with {see Orange Marmalade with Honey). Honey, "Vinegar made from. — A strong and excellent vinegar may be made from honey. Dissolve two pounds of pure honey in haK a gallon of water. Put it into a small cask and leave the hole uncorked, merely cover- ing it with a piece of muslin to preserve the liquid from dust, &c. Expose it to the heat of tho sun—the hotter the better—and in about six weeks it will be ready for use. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for nearly three quirts of vinegar. Hop Salad (a German recipe).—Take some young hops before they are leafy. Boil them in a little salt and water, and when they are partially cooked, but not quite tender, drain and dry them thoroughly, and pour over them a salad-dressing made with lemon-juice instead of \dnegar. Hop Tea.—Put the hops into a covered jug with boiling water, in the proportion of an ounce of hops to a pint of water. When cold, pour off the liquid and bottle for use. A quarter of a pint taken fasting is often found beneficial in attacks of indigestion. If double the quantity of hops is used, it wiU be an ex- cellent tonic. Sufficient for a pint of the tea. Hops and Sherry Cordial.—FiU a wide-mouthed bottle with hops. They may be shaken together, but must not be pressed do^vn. Cover them with sherry, and let them infuse for a month. Strain the liquid, and mix with it a syrup made by boiling half a pint of water with six ounces of sugar. Strain, and keep the cordial in closely-corked bottles for use. A wine-glassful taken in half a tumblerful of water will be found both agreeable and strengthening. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of the cordial. Horseradish for Garnish.—Wash and scrub the horseradish thoroughly. Let it lie ^or an hour in cold water ; then scrape it very finely with a sharp knife. Arrange it in little bunches round the dish, or, if there is gravy with the meat, put it in a small glass dish near the carver. Probable cost, 2d. per root. Horseradish, Pickling.—Scrape the outer skin off tho horseradish, and cut it into inch lengths. Put these into earthen jars, cover with cold vinegar, and cork sooirely. Wax tho corks, and keep the pickle in a cool dry place. Time, a few minutes to prepare. I'roljablo cost of horseradiuh, 2d. per root. Horseradish Powder.—Slice some hoiHuradisli. JJry it in a iJutch oven very gradually, or the flavour will bo lost. When thoroughly di-y, pound it to powder, and keep it in bottles securely corked. The Ijost time for preparing tho powder is in November and December. Horseradish Sauce, Brown (forlwiled meat or flsh).—Grate two table-spoonfuls of horseradish, put it into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown gravy, and let it stand by the side of the fire until quite hot. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a clove of garlic pounded with a little butter, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. If it is wished to have the sauce very mild, use equal parts of bread- crumbs and the scraped root. Serve in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Horseradish Sauce (for cold roast beef). —^Wash and brush the horseradish. Soak it for an hour in cold water, and scrape it very finely with a sharp knife. Mix two table- spoonfuls of it with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of powdered mustard. Add gradually a quarter of a pint of cream, or, instead, the yolk of an egg mixed with three table-spoonfuls of olive-oU, and afterwards two table-spoonfuls of vinegar; stir in briskly but gradually. Mix well, and serve in a boat. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce (for hot roast beef).—Prepare the sauce as above {see Horseradish Sauce for cold roast beef). Before serving, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water. When quite hot the sauce is ready to serve, but it must not boil, or it will curdle. If used cold with hot meat, it will most likely cool everjiihing on the plate with it. Time, a few minutes to heat. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce, Hot (for boiled fowls, &c.).— Prepare tho horseradish as before. Grate an ounce very finely, add a pinch of salt, and pour over it half a pint of good cream. Mix thoroughly, and serve in a boat. Time, half an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce, Superior Fla- vouring for.—Kuh one large lump of sugar upon the peel of an orange until all the yellow part is taken off. j^und the sug-ar to powder, and squeeze the juice of the orange over it. Let it dissolve; then mix it with two table- spoonfuls of finely-grated horseradish, or, if preferred, a table-spoonful of horseradish and one of bread-crumbs; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, a small pinch of cayenne, three table- spoonfuls of oil, and sufficient vinegar to make a thick cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Horseradish Sauce with Apples (a Gonnan rccii)e). —Take a Uble-spoonful of