MUS MUS ( 437 ) mortar, then boil with a pint of made wine or cidor, and a full pint of the juice that flowed from the mussels when boiled, a drachm of cayenne, and two drachms of powdered mace. When suflicienily boUed and skimmed, strain through a hair sieve. Bottle when cold, and Bee that the bottles are sealed as well as corked. Mussels, Pickled.—Cleanse and prepare as before diiected. BoU until the shell opens, but no longer. Reserve theii- juice and the water from the boiling. To this liquor mix in vinegar equal quantities of mace, whole pepper, and whole allspice. Boil together for five minutes, and throw the liquid cold over the mussels. Add salt if required. The mussels may be eaten at once, but will keep corked tightly for many days. Mussels, Ragout of.—Cleanse the shells, and boil the mussels as before directed {see Mussels, Ketchup of). When bearded put them into a basin and the juice which flows from them into another. Dissolve a lump of butter in a stewpan, mince some pai'sley, button mushrooms, and shallots, if liked. Stew them in the butter with a seasoning of mace, pepper, and salt, if required (though this last must be used spar- ingly); moistenwththe liquor, and some gravy; if it be not enough, thicken with flour, and put in the mussels to get hot thi-ough, but do not let them boU. Time, a quarter of an hour. Mussels, Sauce of.—Clean, boil, and beard the mussels as before directed, (see Mussels, Boiled), put them with their juice into a stewpan, season with cayenne and salt, and let them heat slowly, but do not let them boil. Stir in rich melted butter or thick cream until the sauce is of the proper consistency. A des- sert-spoonful of vinegar may be added. Strain the juice of the mussels through a piece of muslin. Mussels, Scalloped.—Cleanse the shells as before directed (.see Mussels, Ketchup of). Beard the mussels when boiled, and reserve the juice that flows from them; strain it through muslin. Butter some scallop-shells or patty-pans, and have ready finely-prepared bread-crumbs, seasoned with cayenne, and a little white pepper and salt. Strew some of the crumbs over the bottom of the patty-pans or shells, and lay mussels over them; cover wth the seasoned bread-crumbs and bits of butter, con- tinuing until mussels and crumbs are used up. Moisten with the reserved liquor, and run a little oiled butter over the top. Brown in the oven, and serve hot. Time, a quarter of an hour. Mussels, Soup of.—The basis of this soup ni;iy be either a fish or meat stock. Take half the quantity of stock required for the soup, mix with it a pint of pounded mussels, pre- viously boiled and the beards taken off. Pound also in a mortar the hard-boiled volks of three eggs, with a lump of butter, a Uttle mace, ca- yenne, and salt; boil for thirty minutes, then strain. Add the remainder of the stock, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Put in another pint of mu8»(3lH, and make hot but do not let the soup boil. Serve with toastisd sippets. If liked, the recipes for Oyster Soup may be followed, mussels being used instead of oysters. Mussels, Stewed.—Take some carefully- prepared mussels, put them into a saucepan with as much of their liquor, strained and pre- viously boiled with a blade of mace, as will be requii-ed to cover them. Let them stew gently, and just before boiling add a thickening of butter and flour blended together. Serve on hot toast. Time, eight to ten minutes to stew. Mustapha Ketchup. — Procure from the butcher a fresh, sound ox-liver; rub it with salt that has been rolled until fine, that the liver may not get bruised. Lay, it into an earthenware tongue-pan, with salt under and over, and rub and turn the liver each day for a week or ten days. Take it from the pickle, wipe dry, and mince it small. Boil in four quarts of water until reduced to about three quarts, then strain through a sieve, and let it get cold. Pour it next day into a sauce- pan, keeping back the sediment; add two ounces of whole black pepper, an ounce each of allspice and ginger, and boil very gently, until reduced to about half the quantity. Allow about a pound and a half of salt. Mustard.—Of mustard, two sorts are cultivated, the black and the white. Both are annuals and natives of Britain. The fonner is cultivated chiefly as a small salad, and is used, like cress, while in the seed-leaves. These are mild and tender when newly expanded, but when the plant has advanced into the rough leaves, they are rank and disagreeable to eat. For spring and smnmer consumption white mustard should be sown once a week, or once a fortnight—in dry, warm situations in February and March, and afterwards in any other compartment. In summer sow in shady borders, if the weather be hot and sunny, or have the bed shaded. To furnish gatherings in winter, or early in spring, sow in frames, or under hand-glasses ; and when the weather is frosty or very cold, in hot-beds and stoves. "Black mustard," says Mr. Loudon, "it chiefly cultivated in fields for the mill and foi medicinal purposes. It is sometimes, however, sown in gardens, and the tender leaves are use^ as greens early in spring. The seed-leaves, in common with those of the cress, radish, rape, &c., are sometimes used as salad ingredients; but the grand purpose for which the plant is cultivated is for seeds, which, ground, produce the well-known condiment. If the seeds. Dr. Cullen observes, be taken fresh from the plant, and ground, the powder has little pungency, but is very bitter; by steeping in vinegar, however, the essential oil is evolved, and the powder becomes extremely pungent. In moistening mustard-seed for the table, it may be remarked that it makes the best appearance when rich milk is used; but the mixture in this case docs not keep good for more than two days. The seeds of both the black and white mustard are often used in an entii-c state medicinally." For salading, mustard is sown in flat-bottomed drills, fibout an inch deep, and six inches apart. Tlie seed cannot well be sown too