HEB ( ) HEE Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, Id. or 1^(1. each. Herrings, Fresh, Choosing.—Choose fresh herrings which lu-o plump in shape, bright and silvery in look, and with thoir scales un- injured. When they are bloodshot about the eyes, they have been dead some time. When many of the scales have come oil", they have been crushed together in Lirgo heaps, oithor in the fishing-boats or in baskets. A herring dies almost instantly it is taken out of the water. Comparatively few people have seen a live herring. Herrings, Fresh, Fried.—Clean and scale four fi-esh herrings. Cut off the fins, and either score them lightly in three or four places, or open them along the under side, and take out the bone. Season them with a little salt and pepper; flour, and afterwards brush them over -with, beaten egg, and sprinkle bread-crumbs over them. Fry them in a very little hot fat, and drain them well before serving. The roes should be taken out, egged and crumbed sepa- rately, fried, and sent to table with the fish. Stir a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and half a tea-spoonful of vinegar into half a pint of melted butter, and send this sauce to table with the herrings in a tureen. Time, three minutes each side. Probable cost of herrings, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Herrings, Fresh, Fried (another way). —Take half a dozen herrings, scrape off i the scales, cut off the heads and fins, cut them open down the back, and wipe the fish with a soft cloth, but do not wash them. SHce two or three onions, and fry them for two or three minutes in hot fat. Dip the herrings in butter, and fry them with the onions, mitH done enough. Send to table with the onions in the dish with them, and parsley and butter in a tureen. Time, six or seven minutes. Probable cost. Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Marinaded (a German re- cipe).—Put some white salted herrings into cold milk, to soak for a couple of hours. Split them open, take out the bones, cut each half- herring into three pieces, and divide the roes lengthwise. Put all in layers into a deep jar, and between each layer place a sprinkling of finely-minced shallot, pounded cloves, and white pepper, with here and there a piece of bay-leaf and a slice of fresh lemon with half the rind taken off. Place the roe with the herring, and the seasoning over the top layer, and caver the whole well with vinegar. Pour three or four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil over the vinegar, and leave it until required. The pieces of herring should be drained when wanted, and served either with cheese or as a relish for salads, breakfast, luncheon, &c. They may be used in a couple of days, but will keep good for some time. Probable cost, about Is. per dozen. Herrings, Mock Anchovy Sand- wiches of {see Herrings, lied, Mock Anchovy Toast of). Herrings, Pickled.—Take half a pound of salt, half a pound of bay salt, an ounce of sugar, and an ounce of saltpetre. Pound all well together until reduced to a fine jjowder. Pro(!uro the herrings as fresh as possible, cut off tlio heads and taibj, open them, and lay them for one hour in brine strong enough to float an egg. Drain, dry the fish with a soft cloth, and put them in layers into a deep jar, with a little of the powder lietween each layer, and a little both at the top and Ijottom of the jar. When the jar is full, press it down and cover it closely. The fish will bo ready in three months. Probable cost, Is. per doz(;n. The above quantity of salt is enough for two dozen herrings. Herrings, Pickled (in the French style). —Scale and clean a dozen perfectly fresh her- rings, without washing them. Cut off their heads, and remove the entrails, leaving the milts and roes in their place. Put the fish into an earthen jar, strew salt over them, and let them lie for twenty-four hours, turning them over at the end of twelve hours. Drain them, and place them in an enamelled saucepan, with a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, six cloves, and a large sUced onion. Pour over them as much cold vinegar and water as wiU cover them. Place them on a brisk fire, bring them quickly to a boil, and let them boil just two minutes. Take them from the fire, and let them get nearly cold in the saucepan before removing them to the jar in which they are to be kept. Lift them out carefully, pour the Kquid over them, and keep in a cool place. They will remain good for some time. Probable cost, is, per dozen. Herrings. Pickled, To Dress.—Cut the heads and tails from a couple of pickled herrings. Soak them in lukewarm water for three or four hours, then drj'^, and broil them over a clear fire. Brush a little salad-oil over them just before serving, and serve with sliced onion or chopped parsley and capers. Time, five minutes to broil. Probable cost, IJd. each. Herrings, Pie of.—Choose some herrings with soft roes; scale and clean them weU, cut off their heads, fins, and tails, split them open, take out the bones, and season the inner surface of the fish with a little salt and pepper. Line the edge of a buttered pie-dish with a good crust. Spread over the bottom of the dish a layer half an inch thick of equal parts of apples and onions, finely minced. Place the herrings on this, and cover them with another layer. Sprinkle the surface with grated nutmeg and finely-shred lemon- rind. Place two or three small pieces of butter here and there on the top, pour a little water in, cover the pie with a crust, and bake in a good oven. Herrings, Potted. — Empty the fish, clean without washing them, cut off the heads and tails, remove the backbone, and strew over them a little salt and powdered mace. Let them remain three or four hours, then wipe off the seasoning and put the fish into a well-buttered pan; strew pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them, place small lumps of butter here and there upon them, and bake m a moderate oven. When they arc cooki<d enough, drain the liquid from them, pour