HOG (817) HON for half an houi-, shaJdng the pan fi-equently, to keep the contents from sticking. A few minutes before the meat is done enough, add a glass of shony. Put the ears in a hot dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Hog's Lard, To Make.—Strip the skin from the Hear, leaf, or inner fat of the pig, cut it into small pieces, put it into an earthen jar, which must be covered and placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain imtU melted. Pour it off, and keep it either in small jars, closely covered, or small bladders— the smaller the better, unless it is intended to use the lard quickly. After it is exposed to the air it is liable to spoil. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Hog, or Black Puddings.—Throw a little salt into the blood as soon as it is drawn, stir it well, and, when cold, strain. Mix with it a third of its measirre in milk, or good stock, and stir into it two-thirds of finely-shred beef suet to one-third of dried oatmeal, until it is a stiff batter. Add pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onions, and, if liked, a little parsley, marjoram, or winter savoury. Cleanse the skins thoroughly. Cut them into equal lengths, and fill them with the mixture. Sew them securely. Put them into boiling water, and boil them gently, prick- ing them as they swell with a large darning- needle, to let out the air. Hang them in a dry place until wanted. Time, one hour .to boil. Holly-leaves, To Frost, for Gar- nishing.—Take some holly-loaves, cleanse them thoroughly, lay them on a large dish some little distance from the fire, and let them remain there until perfectly dry. Dip them into butter, melted until it will run, strew white powdered sugar over them, and dry them before the fire. Keep in a dry place imtil wanted for use. Time ten minutes to dry. Holmby Cup.—Dissolve two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a pint of claret. Add a wine-glassful of brandy, a bottle of soda-water, and two table-spoonfuls of crushed ice. Holstein Cream.—Take the thin rind of a lemon, and let it soak by the side of the fire in a pint of cream for half an hour, and after- wards bring it slowly to a boil. Mix a tea- spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with the strained juice of the lemon and a little cold milk. Stir it into the boiling liquid, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil five minutes longer, stirring aU the time. Slice a smaU spongecake, and lay it in a glass dish, pour the cream over, and garnish according to taste. If milk be used instead of cream, double the above quantity of ground rice will be required. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Holstein Sauce, for Pish.—Mix a quarter of a pint of the water in which the fish was boiled with an equal quantity of light wine. Thicken the liquid with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two ounces of butter, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Add a salt-spoonful of sJilt, a little pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Beat the yolk of an egg in a basin, and mix with it the juice of a lemon. Draw the sauce back from the fire for a minute, then stir into it the egg and half an oimce of butter, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d., exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Honey, Butter Preserved with {see Butter Preserved with Honey). Honey Cake.—Stir half a pint of sour cream into a piat of flour. Add about half a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, two table- spoonfuls of sugar and honey, according to taste. Mix thoroughly, and when the cake is ready for the oven, add half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a small quantity of hot water. Beat again for a few minutes, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. This cake may be eaten either warm or cold. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four persons. Honey Cakes (a German recipe).—Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and when melted, stir in half a pound of honey. Let it boil, stirring briskly all the time. Take it fi'om the fire, and, when slightly cool, mix with it the finely-minced rind of half a lemon, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and coarsely pounded, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and half a pound of flour, and, last of all, half an ounce of car- bonate of soda dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Leave the mixture in a cool place twelve or fourteen hours. Roll it out half an inch thick, cut it into small square cakes, put a thin slice of candied peel in the middle of each cake, and a slice of blanched almond in the four comers. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen cakes. Honeycomb Cream.—Strainandsweeten liberally the juice of two large lemons and a Seville orange. Put it into a glass dish. Boil a pint and a half of thick cream. Pour it into a heated teapot. Put the glass dish con- taining the juice on the groiind, and pour the cream on it very slowly, and from a good height, so as to froth it well. Let it stand until cold. It should be well stirred at table before serving. This is the old-fashioned way of preparing honeycomb cream, but a better plan is to whisk the white of an egg and a little sugar with the cream, then, as the froth rises, to take it off and lay it upon the lemon- juice until all the cream is used. Honeycomb cream should be made the day before it is wanted, and put at once into the dish in which it is to remain. Time, an hour or more to pre- pare. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Honeycomb Gingerbread {see Gin- gerbread, Honeycomb). Honeycomb, Lemon {see Lemon Honey- comb). Honeycomb, To Keep.—Put the honey- comb as whole as possible into a large jar. Set I it aslant, so that the thin part may drop off.