LAR ( 365 ) IiAB preferred, omit these and pour a small quantity of brown gnvvy into tho dish with it, und send more to table in a tureen. Bread sauce should also be sent to table with it. Tune to roast, LANDRAIL. from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, com crakes being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Lard and Butter Pastry.—Rub a pound of lard into two pounds of flour, and roll it out. Roll out half a pound of butter on the board, and dredge a little flour upon it. Lift the floured butter on the pajstry, fold them up together, and roll out once. Pastry is better when made in a cool place, and should be rolled out, if con- venient, on a. marble slab. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. for this quantity. Lard Crust {see Crust, Lard). Lard, Melting.—Take the fat from the inner part of a pig, newly killed. Cleanse it from skin and blood, cut it into thin slices, and put it into an earthenware jar; place it in a pan ®f boiling water, and let it simmer very gently. Keep pouring the fat off as it dissolves, either into dry jars or into bladders which have been well cleaned. The smaller these are the better, as the lard is liable to spoil as soon as it is ex- posed to the air. Store in a cool, dry place. If jars are used, cover them securely with bladder before putting them away. The last drajnings of the fat will not be so fine as that which is poured off first. Lard Pastry.—Mix two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder and a salt-spoonful of salt with two pounds of fine flour. Put a pound and a kalf of lard into the centre, stir it briskly with a knif«, and keep pouring in cold water very gradually until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Eoll the pastry out, and touch it as little as possible with the fibigers. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lard, lOd. per pound. Lard, Pork {see Pork Lard). Lard. Preserving Unmelted.—Take the fat from the inside of a newly-killed pig, rub it all over with salt, and let it lie for two days. Drain it, and put it into salt and water sufficiently strong to float an egg. Change this occasionally in warm weather. Lay the leaf into fresh water for two or throe hours before using it. Lard, To.—Larding is sometimes spoken ■ as one of the most difficult operations of cookery, and yet it is exceedingly easy. It is a great improvement to aU dry, lean meats, and requires to be neatly done in order to look well, but for this a little practice is all that is necessary. It is not at ail unlike wool-work. Cut the bacon (which for white meat should be cured without saltpetre, for fear of red- dening the flesh) into narrow stnps of equal length and thickness. For poultry and game these should be two inches long, the eighth of an inch thick, and a quarter of an inch broad; but for fillets of beef and loins of veal they should be two inches long and the third of an inch square. Put each strip of bacon, which is called a lardoon into a larding needle. On the point of this take up as much of the flesh as will hold the lardoon firmly, draw the needle through, and part of the bacon with it, leaving about half an inch at each side. Repeat the process as evenly as possible, and at equal dis- tances, until the meat requiring to be larded is covered with these chequered rows. Gene- rally speaking, the breasts only of pheasants, LABDINQ NEEDLE. chickens, turkeys, and partridges are larded, and the backs and thighs of hares. "When the flesh is soft, as in the case of poultry, the part to be larded should be dipped for a moment into boiling water, which will give firmness to it. Lardoons.—Lardoon is the name given to the strip of bacon which is to be used for lard- ing. Bacon intended for this purpose should be cured, as has been said in the preceding recipe, mthout saltpetre, or it will give a pink tinge to white meats. Lark Pastry (to be eaten cold).—Take (a dozen larks, empty them, cut ofE their heads, legs, and necks, and put these into a sauce- pan with a few trimmings of veal, if veal trimmings arc at hand, a sprig of parsley, a very small sprig of thjone, a sliced carrot, and a pint of water. Let them simmer very gently until the liquid is considerably reduced, and will jelly. Mince the livers of the larks finely, and mix them with half a pound of lean veal, half a pound of sausage-meat, four ounces of unsmoked bacon, three table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of powdered thjTue, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a little salt. The quantity must be regulated by the condition of the bacon. Work up half of this forcemeat with a table-spoonful of light wine, and fill the larks with it. Line a mould or pie-dish throughout with a good stiff crust. Put a layer of loose mincemeat at the bottom, lay the larks upon it, and fill up the empty spaces with mincemeat. Place three or four slices of bacon on the top, put on the cover, fasten the edges securely, and cut a slit in the middle through which the gravj' may after- wards be poured. Bake in a moderate oven. When the pastrj'- is sufficiently baked, strain the liquor into it through the hole in the top, then cover it with a small ornament, and let it get quite cold before cutting it; indeed, it wiU be better if the dish is kept a day or two before being used. Time to bake, from an hour and a haK to two hours. Probable cost of larks. Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient for six or eight persons.