G^AM GAM ( 239 ) between the pieces. Fill up the mould Nvith jelly, aud set in a cool place. Before serving, dip" the mould for a second or two in boiling water, to nuike it turn out more easUy. Time, twelve hours to set the jelly. Suitable for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Game Panada (Invalid Cookery).—Boil some game, such as a young pheasant or a young partridge, until it is three-parts cooked. Take off the skin, pick the flesh from the bones, and pound it in a mortar with a little of the hquid in which it was boiled, the crumb of a French roll, and a little salt, grated nutmeg, and rasped lemon-rind. When beaten to a paste, put it into a saucepan, with a Httle more of the liquid, and let it simmer for ten minutes. It should be as thick as good melted butter. Time, about one horn- to prepare. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the game. Sufficient, a few spoonfuls may be given to an invalid. Game Patties.—Make a nicely-flavoured mince of the remains of game. Moisten with a httle gravy. Make some small round patties of good light crust, or pirff paste, brush them i over with beaten egg, and bake them tiU lightly \ browned. Warm the mince in a saucepan, put a little in the centre of each patty, and serve them hot, piled on a napkin. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost. Id. each, exclusive of the game. Sufficient, allow one for each person. Game, Perigord Pie.—This somewhat celebrated pie, composed of partridges and truffles, derives its name from Perigord, a place where truffles are very abundant. To make it, first line the crust of a raised pie with fat bacon; spread on it a forcemeat made by mincing and poimding liver and seasoning in the following proportions :—Half a pound of liver (the par- tridge's liver and a little calf's liver may be used), half a pound of fat bacon, half a pound of lean ham, two shallots, four oimces of seasoning spices, one or two truffles, and a little pepper and salt. StufE the partridges with this force- meat and some truffles; place them - in the crust, back downwards. Fill up the vacant places with forcemeat and bacon, put a shoe of bacon on the top, cover with pastry, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is baked nearly enough, fill it up with some gi'avy, made by stewing the trimmings and a httle isinglass. Time, four hours to bake. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Game Pie, English.—The groat point to j be attended to in this dish is to use venison ! that has been well kept. The best end of the neck is what should be taken. Trim and rub it with mace, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Boil down the trimmings of venison and the inferior joints of a hare to make gravy. Take the back and thighs of the hare, and after boning them, fill with forcemeat, using shallot and the raw liver of the hare minced up in the forcemeat. Line a dish with short crust, put in the venison ajid hare, filling up every space with forcemeat. Add a littlo of the gravy, put on the cover, ornament the top, and bake in a hot oven. When venison is not liked, substitute the prime joints of another hare. Time, about two hours and a half to bake. Game Pie for Christmas.—This pie is suitable where game is abundant and ex- pense no object. Make a thick stiff crust, for diiections for which, see Raised Pie. It may either be baked in a mould, or formed into shape with the hands. The latter operation is not easy for those unaccustomed to it. Line the bottom with sHces of fat bacon ; spread over that a layer of forcemeat, made by scalding the hvers of the birds, and pounding them with their weight in fat bacon and lean ham, a few truffles, some bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, savoury herbs, parsley, and rasped lemon-rind. Then put in some of the joints of the birds— the breasts should be larded—and strew over all some finely-chopped mushrooms. Repeat until the pie is full. Season rather hghtly, and keep putting little lumps of butter in amongst the other ingredients. Lay some slices of bacon on the top, put on the lid, ornament with pastry leaves and other devices, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. If the pie is to be served hot, pour some strong gravy over it as soon as it is baked; if cold, take away the bacon from the top, and put some roughed aspic jelly over it before sending it to table. This pie may be made of pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, snipe, grouse, &c. fime to bake, three or four hours for a large pie. Probable cost, &c., uncertain, according to the size and contents. Game Pie (Hunting).—Make a stifE short crust for raised pie {see Raised Pie); bake in a moderate oven. Cut into neat and rather small joints, one turkey, two pheasants, two partridges, two woodcocks, haH a small hare, one grouse, one snipe, and one large ox-tongue. Stew them gently till tender, season rather highly, put them into the crust, pour over them a httle of the gravy in which they were stewed, and strew on the top some finely- chopped stewed mushrooms. Put on the lid, and wann the pie in a moderate oven Aen wanted. Time, three or four hours to pre- pare. Game, Pies of.—Very good pies may be made of game, either cut into joints or, if the birds are small, put in whole. The seasoning should be rather high, and it is usual to put a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish. Game pies are often too much cooked, and thus the flavour is spoilt. A httle good melted butter, mixed with claret, and a soup^on of lemon-juice may be poured over the game when it is to be eaten hot. Stewed macaroni is sometimes sub- stituted for the beef-steak in game pies. Time, cost, &c., according to the size. Game, Pur^e of.—Take the remains of cold game; pick off all the meat, and put the skin, gristle, and bones into a saucepan, with a bnnch of thyme, a stick of colerj', a breakfast- cupful of stock, and a lump of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently until reduced one-half. Remove the scum as it rises. Put the meat into a mortar with a lump of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of gravy. Pound it to a smooth paste, and rub it through a coarse