cassell's cookery. xliv by tlie heat of the fire has diaappeared as completely as the turn-spit doj;s tliem- selves. We will take as an example of joints to be roasted at an oi^en fire that most common one of all, viz., a leg of mutton. First, with regard to the condition of the joint—for nuioh depends upon this—a leg of mutton kept till it is ripe, or just fit for cooking, and one fresh killed, are two distinct things. The fact is, that the great principle of cookery—forethought—is as much overlooked in ordering a dinner as in cooking it. Housekeeper too often will simply order a leg of mutton from the butcher's when the man calls for orders in the morning, and when the leg is sent they don't know whether it was killed that morning or a foi'tnight before. In cold weather it is a very simple plan to pick out a nice joint at the bntcher's, asking when it was killed, and then have it hung up in the larder, or any cool place where there is plenty of air, till it is tender. The length of time say a haunch or leg of mutton will keep in this country depends entirely upon the weather. Of com-se, in some sultry August days a leg of mutton will sometimes turn bad in one day; but such days are rare, and in such weather large hot joints by no means desirable. In winter, especially during a frost, there is scarcely any limit to the time a leg of mutton will keep. Only bear in mind that if the leg gets frozen it is spoilt. In ordinary cold but not necessarily freezing weather, a leg of mutton will keep from ten days to a fortnight. Recollect, too, the importance of keeping the meat dry. For this purpose, flour with a dredger the whole of the joint, and look to it every morning, and re-flour any part that looks in the least degree moist. Experience alone will tell you when the joint should be cooked. Damp close weather is very bad for keeping meat, even if it is not very hot. Cold dry weather is, of course, the best of all, when the temperature is just above freezing. We will now suppose the joint to be hung sufficiently long; next let us con- sider what is the best method of cooking it, and—why. One most important point is to have a good clear bright fire to start with, and for this purpose the cook must see to the fire quite an hour before the joint is what they call " put down." It is no use to " put down" a leg of mutton or large joint to a dull fire, and for the cook to say, " Oh, it "vvill soon burn up !" This corresponds to putting the leg of mutton into lukewarm water, and saying, "Oh, it will soon boil!" The principle of boiling and roasting is the same—to endeavour as quickly as possible to surround the joint with a hard film of meat, in order to keep the flavour in. Consequently, the fire must be clear, bright, and fierce to start with, and the leg of mutton must be put rather near the fire to commence with. After a short time, varying from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour, according to the heat of the fire, draw the joint a little back, and let it cook steadily. Another im- portant point in roasting meat is the basting. A leg of mutton cannot be too much basted. Also basting should commence almost directly the meat is put down. Now it will be often found, in fact generally, that women cooks place the dripping-pan in front of the fire, then hang the joint; next take a basin with some dripping in it, and place a lump in the dripping-pan to melt—the piece placed in front of the dripping-pan generally slipping round to the back as soon as the melting begins. This melting process takes time, and too often the skin and surface of the meat gets hard and dry, and cracks before sufficient di-ipping has melted to baste with.