liii PRINCIPLES—VEGETABLKS. however, be treated like potatoes—when young and small, boiUng water; when old, cold water. Spinach is, again, a vegetable about which there is much dispute; some cooks maintaining that the less water used the better the spinach; some going even so far as to° steam the spinach, and use no water at all; others boiling the spinach till it is tender in an ordinary quantity of water, and then draining it, and rinsing it in cold water before pounding it in a mortar. My own opinion is, that the latter method is the preferable one; it has also the advantage of being recom- mended by the late Mr. Francatelli. We next come to consider the principle of obtaining a good colour. Of course, if the vegetables, such as peas, are old and stale, and of a bad colour to start with, there is no way of making them green by cooking. However, it will often be found that quite young and fresh green peas—and we take peas merely as the type of a class—will turn yellow in boiling. The chief points to be con- sidered for the purpose of avoiding a bad colour are—first, see that the water is boiling before the vegetables are put in; secondly, do not shut in tlie steam. Consequently, whenever it is possible, let green vegetables boil in an open saucepan. Of course, when you liave a shut stove and a hot-plate this is very easy; when, however, it is an open fire, care must be taken that in placing the lid half open, so that the steam may escape, at the same time the smoke is not sucked into the saucepan. Smoky vegetables are extremely disagreeable. To obtain a good colour for carrots, they must be lightly scraped, and not peeled. Another important point in cooking the majority of vegetables is to have plenty of water. First, if the quantity of water is not large, the moment the vegetables are put in, the water instantly goes ofi" the boil, whereas it is important the water should boil the whole time. Again, it is well known how extremely disagreeable green-water is to smell; consequently, should say a cabbage be placed in a small quantity of water, this disagreeable green-water becomes more concentrated. Let me here, however, give you one most important word of warning with regard to "green-water," and that is, never on any account allow it to be poured down the sink, as the smell that will consequently arise will probably have the very uncomfortable result of rendering the whole house disagreeable for some time after. There are few houses now, even in London, that do not possess a small patch of gi'ound at the back. The best way of getting rid of green-water is to pour it on the ground outside. Of course in all culinary operations the first principle of cookery, viz., clean- liness, should be strictly attended to. But in cooking vegetables, if possible, even extra care should be taken on this point. For instance, in cooking potatoes the unsightly black spots should be scooped out with the greatest care. In boiling spinach, the enemy to be encountered is grit, consequently the spinach should be washed in several waters, the water being sufficiently deep to allow the dii-t to settle. In boiling greens, and especially cauliflowers and broccoli, those most disgusting enemies, catei-pillars and little slugs, must be met and defeated. Now, in a close cauliflower or broccoli this is not always so easy a task as some would imagine; but by letting the vegetables soak in cold salt and water for an hour or more, and occasionally shaking them, every one of these nasty creatures can be got rid of—for to find a boiled caterpillai- on one's plate at dinner is quite sufficient to destroy one's enjoyment of the meal. The fact really implies