JEL JEL ( 342 ) Kivoury horba, and half a dozen peppercorns bimmor slowly for throo or four hours, or until the liquid will jolly. If quickly boiled, tho jolly will not be so clear. Strain tho Lmivy add salt if required, and put it aside until quite cold, so that the fat may be entirely removed Probable cost, 28. Gd. Sufficient for a pint ami a half of jelly. Jelly, Meat used in Stock for.—A good bi-fuldust or luncheon dish may bo made of tho meat from the foot which have been stewed for stock. Take away the bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces, season thorn with ^It and cayenne, and a little pounded mace. Press them into a mould, pour over them a Uttle of the jelly, and when cold tuna out in a shape. Garnish according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Id. or 2d. Sufficient for two or three persons, if made from the remains of two feet. Jelly Mould {see Illustration accompany- ing tho notice of Apple Calf's Foot Jelly). Jelly, Open, with Whipped Cream. —Prepare a pint and a half of perfectly trans- parent jelly, either calf's foot, isinglass, or gelatine; colom- it, if liked, with two or three drops of cochineal, and put it into a damp mould made with an opening in the centre on purpose for dishes of this description. When the jelly is firmly set, have ready three-quarters of a pint of whipped cream nicely flavoured and sweetened. Pile this in the opening as high as possible, and it is ready to serve. If an open mould is not at hand, a gallipot filled with cold water may be put into an ordinary mould, then removed when the jelly round it is cold. Jelly Pudding.—Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon in two table-spoonfuls of spring water for half an hour. While it is soaking, beat five ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add four ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, and, very gradually, the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Line a small pie-dish with good p\iff paste. When it is time for the pudding to be baked, mix with it the strained lemon-water, and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a soUd froth, and bake in a quick oven. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three persons. Jelly, Rice.—Mix four ounces of rice- flour smoothly and gradually with a quart of cold milk; put them into a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of clarified isinglass, the thin rind of half a lemon, four bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and four ounces of sugar. Boil and stir briskly until quite thick. Take out the lemon-rind, and pour the mixture into a damp mould. When it is fii-mly set, turn it on a glass dish, pour melted currant jelly, or any fruit syrup, round it, and send a jug of cream to table with it. Time, five minutes after boiling. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the sauces. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly, Stock for.—Stock for jellies may be macfe either of calf's foot, ox-heel, or the shank-bones of mutton. In all these the pro- cess—long and gentle stewing—is tho same. The quantity of water required is as follows:— C-a// *./oo< Stock—Vtoiimtg two calf s feet from tho butcher. Lay them in a saucepan of scald- mg hot water for three or four minutes, then scrape off the hair witli the back of a knife. Divide thorn into halves, knock off the hoofs, remove the fat from between the toes, wash in two or three waters, and put them into a sauce- pan with two quarts of cold water. Bring them slowly to a boil, remove the scum as it rises, assist it to rise l)y throwing in a few drops of cold water when the liquid is on the point of boiling, and simmer gently for five or six hours, until the liquid is reduced fully one-half. Strain it, and put it aside until cold. Before using it, remove tho fat from it, with an iron spoon which has been dipped into boiling water. When as much fat as possible has been taken off, a cloth dipped in hot water and squeezed drv should be dabbed over the jelly, which should then be lightly dried. Ox-lied iS76cyk—Take two heels, scalded, but unboiled, remove the fat from between the claws, and wash them thoroughly in lukewarm water. Put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water. Bring this to a boil, remove the scum carefully, and simmer gently for seven or eight hours, or until the liquid is reduced one-half. Strain and pour off the stock, and set it aside to cool. Shank-bones of Mutton—Wash and brush a dozen shank-bones of mutton. Pour over them three pints of water, and simmer gently for seven or eight hours until the liquid is reduced to a pint. The stock for jeUies should always be made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat and sediment may be effectually removed. Probable cost, calf's feet. Is. each; ox-heel, 6d. each; shank-bones, 3d. or 4d. per dozen, when they are to be bought. The butchers, however, verj^ frequently weigh them with the leg. Jelly, S3rrup Clarified for.—When jelly is desired very clear and transparent it is safer to clarify the sugar as well as the isin- glass. Mix a pint of water with a tea-spoonful of the beaten white of egg. Put it into a sauce- pan with a pound of loaf sugar, and let it boil gentl}' until the scum ceases to rise. Re- move the scum carefully, and strain the syrup through a napkin into a basin. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. Jelly, Weak Wine (Invalid Cookery). —Put an ounce of isinglass into an enamelled saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of water and three ounces of sugar. Boil gently until it is dissolved, remove the scvim carefully as it rises, and throw in a tea-spoonful of cold water two or three times, to assist it in doing so. Strain the jelly through a bag which has been wrung out of hot water, add the juice of a couple of oranges, and a quarter of a pint of good sherry, and pour the liquid into glasses. Let it be kept in a cool place \intil firmly set. Though this jelly will be agreeable and refresh- ing, it will not be as nourishing as if made from calf s feet. Time, half an hour to dissolve the isinglass. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five glasses. Jelly, Whipped.—Take the remains of any col'd jolly. Dissolve it over a gentle fire, put it into a basin, and place this upon some rough ice mixed with salt, whisk it briskly untii