PllIXCI f LES—GRAVY. no nieaus bad. What, however, is the drawback ? The flour ha& been used raw, and a keen palate will detect the flavour we have mentioned and described as " c'ruelly." What, however, is the remedy for this ] Let the flour be fried instead of raw; or, in other words, instead of simply using butter and flour to thicken the stock, use brown thickening, or brown roux, as the French call it, and let me here tell cooks that in the end they will absolutely save both time and trouble by making some of this roux or brown thickening beforehand in a fairly good quantity, as when it is made it will keep for a very long time. We all know the difierence in the taste of a piece of pie-crust before it is baked and afterwards—one tastes of the flour, the other has a rich taste altogether different. Just such is the difierence between ordinary butter and flour and brown thickening. In making thick mock-turtle soup, brown thickening is used to impart that rich flavour which is the characteristic of all thick soups. It would be a most instructive experiment to a young cook if she has a trustworthy taste to try the difierence in the flavour of a little good stock or soup; the one thickened with ordinary butter and flour raw, and the other with brown thickening, which we will now desciibe how to make at somewhat fuller length than would be justifiable in a receipt which, as we have before said, necessaiily presupposes a certain, amount of knowledge. Suppose, then, a cook to possess some fine dry flour—say half a pound—the same quantity of butter, an enamelled stewjjan, a clear brisk fire, and an onion. First place the butter in the stewpan, and melt it till it nms to what cooks call oil. It will be found that there is a white scum at the top, and a milky sediment at the bottom—recollect, melt the butter, but do not boil it—simply melt it. Skim the frothy top, and pour ofi" what may be called the clarified butter, leaving the milky sediment in the pan. Now you have got rid of what is often called the milk in the butter. Next take the stewpan, and having wiped it clean, pour back the clarified butter into it, and gradually mix in the dried and sifted flour: this vriW make a sort of pudding, which will all cling together, and will not—or ought not if proper care has been taken to follow these directions—cling to the stewpan. Keep this pudding over the fire, and keep stii-ring witli an iron or wooden spoon till it begins to change colour—i.e., it will gradually from being almost white turn to the colour of underdone pie-crust or the covers of those old-fashioned books which treat of mediaeval times. As soon as the colour begins to change, redouble the stirring, and occasionally remove the stewpan from the fire for a few minutes alto- gether, in order that the fiour should not be fried brown too quickly, for this is reaUy all that is being done. It will be found that the butter and flour will go on boiling m the stewpan for a long time after it has been removed from the fire—ten minutes or more : such is the power enamelled stewpans possess of retaining the heat. Have ready, close at hand, two slices out of the centre of a good-sized onion about a quarter of an mch thick. Keep stirring the butter and flour till it is of a light brown colour, not quite so brown as ripe com, then take the stewpan off" the fire throw m the two slices of onion, which have the double advantage of slackening the heat and of impartmg a rich flavour to the thickening. This will cause a ^^eat spluttering, and care should be taken to avoid a few little splashes on the backs of the hands. Keep stu-rmg the mixture till all bubbling has ceased, and this will be hunger than many would imagine. Pour ofi" what will now be a rich brown fltxid, which will assume the appearance of light chocolate when cold, into a deep dish- t jZ^Tl^J^I 7."/°°' " anything-for use. It will keep for months, and always at hand for thickenmg gravy. A good-sized table-spoonful of tlus mixtux-e