( 484 ) OX ORT of forcemeat at the bottom of the pan, place an ortolan upon it, and then Honie more force- moat, and coutinuo until the pun is full, ro- momhoring only that the topmost hiy^v whould conaist of forcomout. Ijay some tliin alicoB of fat bacon on the top, put on the cover, and bake in a moderate oven. Two or tliroe trufllos finely minced, and spread upon the layers of forcemojit, are a groat improvement to this dish. To be served cold. I'ime to bake, one hour. Probable cost, uncertain, ortolans being seldom otfered for sale. OMOLAITS. Ortolans, Roasted.—Truss the ortolans without drawing them. Lay" first a vine-leaf and then a thin slice of bacon over the breast of each, and tie the leaf and bacon on with string. Put the birds down to a brisk fire, and baste them liberally. Dish upon toast which has been placed under them whilst they were roasting, and garnish the dish with water- cresses. Send orange gravy to table in a tureen. Time, twenty-five minutes to roast. Probable cost, uncertain, ortolans being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, half a dozen for six persons. Ortolans, Stewed, -with Truflaes.— Take as many large even-sized trufiles as there are ortolans. Make a large round hole in the middle of each trufiie, and put in it a little chicken forcemeat. Cut off the heads, necks, and feet of the ortolans, season them with a little salt and pepper, and lay each bird on its back in one of the trufiles. Arrange them side by side in a deep stew-pan, lay thin slices of bacon upon them, pour over them in equal proportions as much good stock and madeira as will cover them, and simmer thorn very gently for twenty-five minutes. Dish the ortolans and the trufiles on toast, and pile them high in the dish. Strain tho gravy, thicken it to the consistency of cream, and pour it over the birds. Sufficient, half a dozen for four persons. Oswego Cakes.—Rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add four ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, six ounces of Oswego, a table-spoonful of milk, and three weU-whiflkod eggs. Flavour the cakes accord- ing to taste, either with cu:rants, caraway-seeds candied peel, grated nutmeg, or essence of lemon. Beat the mixtui-e briskly for a quarter ot an hour, half fill with it some well-oiled small moulds, and bake in a good oven Time ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. Oude Curry.—Take any cold mc^t, beef mutton, game, or poultry, and divide it into convenient-sized pieces. Cut a large Spanish onion into thin slices; fry these in four ounces of butter, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of good gravy. Mix a smaU table-spoonful of curry-powder smoothly with the sauce; add the pieces of meat, and simmer all gently together for two hours. Before serving the curry, add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four persons. Oude Sauce for Cold Meat.—Mince two onions very finely. Fry them in two ounces of clarified butter, and stir them about until they are lightly browned without being burnt. Add half a dozen chillies cut into small pieces, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of salt, and one ounce of the fiesh of a dried haddock which has been torn into fiakes with two forks. Stir all well together for three or four minutes, and whilst stirring add, in small quantities at a time, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, two table-spoonfuls of tomato-pulp, and a little water. When the sauce is as thick as paste it is ready for serving. It should be made the day on which it is to be used. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oven, American (see American Oven). Ox Brains (en Matelote).—Take half a dozen button-onions. Put them whole into a stewpan with an oimce and a half of fresh butter, and move them about until they are soft and yellow. Dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over them, and moisten with nearly half a pint of good stock and a glassful of red wine. Add a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of winter savoury, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a drachm of cayenne, half a blade of mace, and three or four small mushrooms if they are at hand. Simmer the sauce gently for half an hour. Clean the ox-brains verj'' care- fully, and remove all the skin and fibrous parts. Lay them in lukewarm water to soak, then take them up and drain them, put them into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Serve on a hot dish; remove the herbs from the sauce, and pour it upon them. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Ox Brains, Fried. — Wash the brains carefully in two or three waters, remove all the blood, skin, and fibre, and lay them in warm water to blanch. Put them into boiling salt and water, and simmer gently for half an hour. Drain them, make them into balls the size of a small egg, dip them into beaten egg and finely-grated brcad-crumba, and fry them in plenty of hot fat until they are brightly browned all over. Place them on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a small lemon