JAM ( 337 ) JAM arc used they must be boiled twenty minutes alono before the other fruit is added to them. This jiim will not keep more than two or three months. Probable cost, Gd. per pound. Jam, Mixed, Superior—Take equal measures of fruit, black cherries picked and stoned, black currants, and raspberries. Boil the cherries twenty minutes first, then add the currants and raspberries, -vnth a pint and a half of red currant juice to every three pounds of fruit. Boil imtil the fruit is broken, then add one pound of sugar to everj- prut of fruit, and boil gently for half an houi'. Skim carefully, pour the jam into jars, and cover in the usual way. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Jam Omelet.—Beat four eggs, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of milk. Make an omelet-pan quite hot—the best way to do this is to put it on the fire with a little fat, and when this bums pour it off, and wipe the pan dry—^put two ounces of fat or oil into the pan, and when it begins to bubble pour in the eggs, &c., and keep stirring them with a spoon until lightly set. Let them remain a minute, until the omelet is browned on one side, then turn it on a hot dish, spread a little jam in the middle, fold the edges over on each side, sift a little sugar over, and scfve as quickly as possible. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for three persons. Jam Patties.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into a quarter of a poimd of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt and a salt- spoonful of sugar, and moisten with the yolk of an egg, beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Eoll the paste out twice, and each time spread an ounce of butter on it. Dredge a little flour over it, fold it up in a roU, and let it stand in a cool place for an hour or two. Before making it up roll it out once or twice, and the Last time leave it the thickness of half an inch, then stamp it out in fourteen small roimds, and with a smaller cutter stamp again quite through six of them, leaving a ring three-quarters of an inch wide. Lay a pastry ring on each perfect round, first moistening it a little with water to make it adhere securely. Bake the patties in a quick oven, fill them while warm with jam, and put on the top a small ornament, which has been lightly baked with the patties. Time, ten minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 1 Jd. each. Sufficient for six patties. Jam Puffs, or Turnovers.—Make some good puff paste or short crust (see Jam Patties); roll it out to the eighth of an inch in thickness, then stamp it out in roimds with a saucer or plate, or into squares. Spread a little jam on half the pastrj', wet the edges, and turn the other half quite over. Press the edges neatly together, and bake in a quick oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, l|d. each. Jam Roly-poly Pudding.—Shred five or six ounces of beef suet very finely; mix with it one pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of baking - powder. Make it up into a firm paste with cold water ; then roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, wet the edges all round, and spread half a pound of jam over the pastry. Eoll it to the shape of a bolster, fasten the edges securely, and put the pudding into a floured cloth. Tie it at both ends, put it into boiling water without bending it, and let it boil quickly for about two hours. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Imitation jam {see Jam, Imitation) makes a good pudding for the nur- sery. Probable cost, lOi Sufficient for four persons. Jam Sandwiches.—Mix the yolks of two eggs very smoothly with a table-spoonful ot flour and a table-spoonful of ground rice, add a very small pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of sugar, half a pint of thick cream, and a quarter of a pint of new nulk. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, add them last of all, and beat the mixture for four or five minutes. Butter two large plates, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven until it is set and lightly browned. Spread a little jam over one of the cakes and lay the other upon it, the browned part uppermost. Sift a little sugar over it before serving. Jam sandwiches may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Suflicient for three or four persons. Jam Tarts.—Make some pastry, as di- rected for Jam Patties. Butter a dozen patty- pans, and line them with the pastry rolled out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put them into a quick oven, and when nearly baked take them out and put a little jam in the centre of each, then return them to the oven and finish baking. An ornament already baked should bo placed upon each, or a little whipped cream. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, l|d. each. Sufficient for eight tarts. Jam Tart, Open.—Make some pastry, as directed for Jam Patties, or as follows:—Rub six oimces of butter into the same quantity of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, a tea- spoonful of poimded sugar, and make it up into a smooth paste with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cold water; about a quarter of a pint will be required. Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Butter an ornamented tart-pan and line it with the pastry. Trim the edges neatly, and prick a few holes in the bottom vvdth a fork. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned, then take the tart out, let it cool a little, spread the jam on it, and ornament the top with a few leaves or stars of pastry which have been baked separately. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jam, To Keep.—Pour the jam into perfectly sound dry bottles or jars. Glass bottles are the best, as through them any mould or fermentation can be easily perceived without remo\-ing the cover. If earthenware jars are used the jam should be looked at once or twice during the first two months, and if there is any appearance of the jam not keeping, it should bo gently reboiled. Place a round of thin paper dipped in brandy on the top of the jam. Out