GIN ( 253 ) GIB just as much water as will cover them. Melt tluee ounces of buttor in a saucepan ; put with thorn two large Spanish onions, chopped small. Cover the pan, and let thom remain until tender. Add to them gradually the liquid in which the giblets have been stewed, and season Hither highly with salt and cayenne. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly vnth. a little water, and add it to the onion sauce. Put in the giblets, and let aU boil together for twenty minutes. Time, two hours. Probable cost, giblets, 6d. to Is. per set. Sufficient for four or Ave persons. Giblets with Apples (a German recipe).—Prepare the giblets as before. Take eight large apples, peel, core, and quarter them, and let them boil until they are tender, but imbroken, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, four table-spoonfuls of water, and the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon. Put a piece of butter, about the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan, mix with it, very smoothly, a table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire untU slightly browned. Add three table-spoonfuls of the apple-juice, and three table-spoonfuls of the liquid in which the giblets were stewed. Let these boil, then add them to the rest of the giblet gravy. Wash two table-spoonfuls of grocer's currants, and strew them over the giblets. Heat all together, colour rather darkly with a few drops of browning [see Browning), and arrange on a hot dish, with the giblets in the centre, the pieces of apple round, and the gravy, with the currants, poured over all. Time, about two hours. Probable cost, giblets, 6d. to Is. per set; apples, 8d. per dozen. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Giblets ■with Pears (a German recipe). —Put four pork chops into a saucepan, lay upon them a set of goose giblets, prepared as for Giblet Pie, and just cover them with cold water or stock. Season them with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently until done. Drain them, and put the gravy into another saucepan, with one dozen of stewing, pears, peeled and quartered, one dozen of cloves, and two table-spoonfuls of brown sugar. Let the pears stew until they are tender, but unbroken. Colour rather darkly with a few drops of brown- ing, put in the meat until thoroughly heated, and serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 28. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Giblets with Turnips (a German re- cipe).—Prepare and simmer the giblets as before. When about half-done, put with them three good-sized turnips, cut into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Let them remain until they are quite tender, but unbroken. Thicken the gravy with a Httle flour, add a few drops of browning, and serve as hot as possible. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Gin Punch.—Peel verj- thinly the rind of a large lemon, and put it, with a table-spoonful of the juice, in a bowl. Pour over it two table- Bpoonfuls of pounded loaf sugar, and one pint of fresh spring water. Let it stand for hiilf an hom\ TIk n add hnlf a pint of gin, a wine- glassful of maraschino, and two table-spoonfuls of pounded ice. Just before serving, add two bottles of soda-water. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to prepare. Sufficient for two quarts of punch. Gin Sling (an Amarican drink). — Put half a small lemon, cut into thin slices, into a large tumbler, with a dessert-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar. Fill the glass with ice, finely pounded, and add a wine-glassful of the best gin. Drink through a reed. Ginger.—This well-known spice is the creeping root of a tropical plant. Most of that used in Britain is imported from the East and West Indies. It is of use, not only in domestic economy, as a condiment, but in medicine, as a stimulant and carminative. As a spice, ginger is best suited for persons of relaxed habit. Two kinds are met with, the dark-coated and the pale-peeled. Of these, the latter is the best. Ginger and Bread Pudding.—Pour half a pint of boiling milk over half a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and let the latter soak for an hour. Then ^x with them three table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, three well- beaten eggs, a dessert-spoonful of ginger sjTup, and four ounces of preserved ginger, cut into small pieces. Beat all thoroughly with a fork, pour into a well-oiled mould, steam, and, when done, turn out with care. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Time, one hour and a half to steam. Ginger Beer. — Put the thinly-peeled rind of four iamons into a-large earthen pan with the strained juice, two ounces of bruised ginger, two and a half pounds of loaf sugar, and half an ounce of cream of tartar. Poiir over these ingredients two and a half gallons of boiUng water, and, when lukewarm, add two table-spoonfuls of fresh brewer's yeast. Stir the Uquid, and leave it to ferment until the next day. Skim the yeast from tlie top, pour I the beer carefully fi-om the sediment, and bottle for use. The corks should be pei-fectly sound, put into boiling water just before being used, and then securely wired down. The ginger-beer will be leady for use in two days. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for three dozen and a half ginger-beer bottles. Ginger Biscuits.- Pub four ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of flour, and add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, half an ounce of ground ginger, and one egg beaten up with a little milk to a smooth paste. Make up into small round biscuits, and bake on buttered paper for eight or ten minutes ; leave a little distance between each cake. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about two dozen biscuits. Gingerbread (a la Soyer).—Mix half a pint of treacle and about one ounce of powdered ginger (more or less, according to taste) MTith one pound of flour. Stir well together, to form a stiff dough, roll it out thin, cut it into small rounds with a pastry-cutter, and bake on a buttered tin, in a good oven for five or six minutes till crisp. A small lump of butter may be rubbed in if desired. Probable cost, G(l. por pound. Sufficient for two dozen