xvi in fact get putrid ! Tliis is easily and instantly detected by smelling. Again, the flavour of anything burnt or smoky is hont detected by the nose. Who has not at times had soup served that tastes smoky, or an omelette that tastes burnt ] Here again the nose is the quickest organ to detect the fault—a very good proof of which is the common observation heard in the higher regions, such as the staircase or dining room, " All, there's something burning!" Sauce piquant, if too acid, can be detected by the smell; soup too gi-easy can likewise be detected by the smell, as well as dishes over-spiced; but experience alone will tell when the nose can be used instead of the palate, and it must be borne in mind that good cooks never keep tasting, as the result of that is invariably temporary suspension of palate altogether. KITCHEN MANAGEMENT. Another important point in the principle of cookery is the management of the kitchen. Now, of all the various points that compxise kitchen management, perhaps none is more important than what we will call "clearing up as you go along." Contrast a well-ordered kitchen with a badly-managed one at that trying moment that cooks call dishing up. In the latter you will find the cook with a flushed face and hurried manner, surrounded by a perfect chaos of dirty saucepans, dishes, spoons, basins, knives and foi'ks ; and woe be to that natural enemy of the cook, the Buttons, who speaks to her under these circumstances. " There, don't bother me, I don't know which way to turn !" Who has not at some dinner-parties witnessed those awful pauses between the courses, and have quite felt for the hostess, whose utmost endeavours to appear unconcerned are but ill-concealed, and whose eyes turn anxiously towards the door through which nothing seems to make its appearance 1 But if the mistress is to be pitied above, much more is the maid to be pitied below, whose flurry of agitation is increased by the footman's, " Come, cook, make haste, they are all waiting !" Now all this confusion arises from want of forethought. The good old maxim, " Never put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day," never applies with greater force than in the arrangement of a good dinner. As far as possible let everything be arranged beforehand in proper order. The soup of course should always be made beforehand if possible, and be of a nature that will keep. There are so many little things that can only be done the last moment, that it is of the utmost importance that everything that possibly can be done before should be finished and put by. I will give an illustration of a dinner—a very ordinary one—in which the cook can have plenty of time to herself at the finish. Suppose now a long dresser neatly covered over with old newspapers, on which are stood in row cooking utensils as follows:—First, a saucepan, containing mock-turtle soup ; second, a stewjian, con- taining say some stewed eels; thii'd, a tin of oyster patties; fourth, a stewpan, with some haricot beef; here a saucepan containing some rich brown gi-avy, and another in which an onion reposes quietly imbosomed in bread-cinimbs and mOk. Now, all these things might have been placed there hours before dinner. Say the number of persons for dinner is eight. Now, on the dresser in front of the Boup-tureen should be placed a pile of eight clean-dusted soup-plates, and a pOe of eight ordinary plates in front of every other dish. We wiU suppose two roast fowjs