( 313 ) HEB HEB two of sweet marjoram, two of winter savoury, two of basil, four of dried parsley, and one oxmce of finoly-minced lemon-rind. Pound these thoroughly in a mortar, sift the powder through a wire sieve, and keep it in bottles closely stoppered for use. Herbs, Vinegar of.—The flavour of herbs may be extracted by being soaked in ■vinegar, and in this form may be used for soups and sauces, when fi-esh herbs cannot be obtained. Gather the herbs on a dry day, and at the proper season. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and fill a wide-mouthed bottle with. them. The leaves may be shaken together, but must not be pressed down. Pour the best pickling \anegar over them, let them infuse for a month, then strain and bottle for use. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Herbs, Wines of.—Herbs may be infused in wine instead of vinegar, and when this is done, the essence wUl be found useful for those dishes in which the acidity imparted by vinegar is not required. Proceed as with vinegar {see the preceding recipe), using sherry, claret, or any light wine to fill the bottle. As wine is stronger than vinegar, a fortnight will be foiond sufficient to extract the flavour. Time, about two weeks to infuse. Her Majesty's Pudding. — Flavour half a pint of cream or new milk with half an ounce of povmded almonds, or if preferred, a little lemon or ratafia flavouring. Simmer gently, and when lukewarm, pour the milk gradually over two well-beaten eggs. Stir it over the fire for a minute or two, until it begins to thicken, then take it off and sweeten it, and when quite cool pour it into a buttered mould which has been lined with a smaU. spongecake, previously sliced and soaked in sherry. Place a cover on the mould and steam the pudding. When done enough, let it stand a minute or two before turning it out, and ornament with crystallised fruit of different colours. Time, three-quai-ters of an hour to steam. Probable cost, 8d.,if made with milk. Sufficient for two persons. Herodotus Pudding, or Hilton Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of suet very finely, mix with it five ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and five ounces of good figs minced as small as possible. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two eggs well beaten. Beat the mix- ture with a fork, pour it into a buttered mould, tie it in a cloth, and boU it for three hours. Send brandied sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings.—This delicate and delicious fish, which visits the British Islands in shoals, are at their best in July and August. They may be cooked in many ways, for all of which recipes will be given. There is a difference of opinion as to the time when the herring is in season. The fact is there are varieties of this fish, and one kind or another is to be had at any time excepting the early spring. Herrings, Dutch, Fried.—Wash the herrings, and sos^k them in milk for a couple of hours. Drain and dry them ; cut off the fins, dip them in floxir, egg and bread-crumb them, iind fx-y them in hot fat. Send potatoes in any form to table with them. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. eacU. Sufiicient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Baked.—Scale and clean the hen-ings carefully, without washing them. Cut ofl: the heads, and take out tho backbone. Sprinkle a little salt, pejjper, and pounded mace over them, both inside and out, lay them in a deep baking-dish, and arrange the roes at the top. Cover them with vinegar and water in equal proportions, and put three or four bay-leaves or cloves into the liquid. Bake for an hour. They are much better eaten cold than hot. When the backbone is removed they may be neatly rolled before baking. Pro- bable cost, Id. or l|d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Boiled.—Few fish are more delicious than fresh herrings boiled. Wash, scale, and gut them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and dip them once quickly in vinegar; skewer them securely vnth. their tails in their mouths, put them into boiling water, and simmer very gently until done enough, when they must be taken out immediately. Drain the water from them, and arrange them neatly on a dish", garaish with parsley or scraped horseradish, and send shrimp, anchovy, or parsley sauce to table in a tureen. Time, alaout twelve minutes to simmer. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Broiled. — Fresh herrings are better for broiling when they have been salted for a night, as this both renders them firmer and improves their flavour. Scale and gut the fish without opening them, score them to the bone in two or three places, draw them through oU on a dish, and broil them over a clear fire. Lift them gejitly now and then, to prevent their sticking to the bars, and when one side is done enough, turn the fish gently to the other. Serve imme- diately. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over the herrings before sending them to table. The roes must be fried and served with them. Time, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Id. or IJd. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Herrings, Fresh, Broiled (in the Scotch style).—Scale, gut, and wash the herrings, cut ofl: the heads, tails, and fins, flatten them with great care, remove the backljone, and any little bones that can be taken out with it. Sprinkle the inside of each fish with a little pepper and salt; then place them together in pairs, and press the two inner surfaces as close as possible. Dip them in oatmeal, lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and when the undermost fish is broiled, turn them quickly and carefully, without separating them. Serve as hot as possible. A bloater and a fresh herring may be broiled together in this way, but when this is done, tho bloater should be well rubbed inside with butter before being laid on the fresh fish, and the oatmeal omitted for it. Time, about fifteen minutes to broil,