PRINCIPLES--STOCK. xxxi stock will be found to be covered with a coating of fat as hard almost as wax, and the brotli underneath will, when this fat has been removed, be entirely free from gi-ease Not so, however, the other; tho pork stock will likewise be found to be covered with fat, not so hard; but when that has been removed the stock itself will still be very greasy. Again, stock made from bones containing gristle and soft fat, is often gi-easy, even after it has got cold; so, too, with the liquor in which bacon or ham has-been boiled, though nothing can be better than lean ham to flavour stock. When lean and fat is mixed together, the stock becomes often so saturated with grease as to be almost useless. When, therefore, stock is in this state, viz., that it holds fat in solution, the only method by which the fat can be got rid of is by placing the stock on the tire, and allowing it to simmer gently; wMle it is simmering the cook should from time to time carefully skim it. The longer this process is continued the freer will the stock be from fat. When butter has been in any way mixed with stock or soup, as in the case of using the brown or white thickening, this is the only method by which it can be got rid of again. In fact, cooks would do well to disabuse their minds of the fallacy that if stock is allowed to get cold the fat hardens on the top, and if this be removed that consequently it is impossible for a pai-ticle of fat to remain. Such is not the case, and as one fact is worthy fifty arguments we should recommend them to try the simple experiment, when they get a somewhat greasy stock, of letting it get cold, removing all the fat, and then putting on the stock to boil again for, say, an hour. They will find that when the stock gets cold for the second time, that there will be almost as much fat settle on the surface as before. Another important little art in which good cooks ought to excel is the removal of gi'ease from small quantities of stock or gravy without letting it get cold, and without going through that somewhat laborious and wasteful process when only small quantities have to be dealt with—of skimming. Some cooks have a great knack of blowing the grease ofi* stock. Recollect, we do not recommend the custom, but simply refer to it; the stock or gravy is poured out into a small basin, so that the surface of the stock is nearly on a level with the edge of the basin. In a very few minutes the grease will rise to the top, looking like oil floating on the surface. By blowing gently, this oil can be driven to one side of the basin, and by tilting the basin and holding it, say over the sink, by allowing a little to be blown over the edge, in a very short time all the grease can be got rid of with, comparatively speaking, a very small sacrifice of stock. The method is ingenious, and veiy often resoi-ted to by cooks. The objection is the natural one against blowing, many objecting to it on account of its not being an altogether cleanly custom. A better and perfectly unobjectionable plan is using blotting-paper, or, indeed, any rather rough kind of paper, for the purpose. Of course, if there is any very large quantity of grease floating on the surface the best part of it must be removed by skimming; as long as there is plenty of gi'ease, then skimming is easy enough, but it is when the stock gets down to that state in which it is not covered with large pools of fat, so to speak, as large as the bowl of a spoon, but is dotted over with little round specks of fat ranging in size from a pea to a pin's head. When the stock has got into this state, by continuous skimming the stock is wasted, and very little impres- sion is made on the grease. Now, what is wanted is to remove the surface only. Get, therefore, a piece of white blotting-paper, or even a clean piece of common brown paper, and let this just touch the surface, the grease wiU adhere to the paper, and