LIT LIN ( 382 ) an ounce of Spanish liquorice may be put with, the linseed if the tea be wanted for any one with a cough. Sufficient for one person. Liqueurs.—The name liqueur is applied to any alcohoUc preparation flavoured, perfumed, or sweetened so as to be more agreeable to the taste. These preparations are very numerous; the follo^ving are amongst the principal:— Absinthe, which is spirit sweetened and flavoured with the young tops of a species of nrtemisia. Aniseed cordial, made by imparting to weak spirit the flavour of aniseed, coriander, and sweet fennel seed, and sweetening it with a highly- clarified sjTup of refined sugar. Clove cordial, flavoured with bruised cloves, and coloured with liver sauce may be served with them. T'ime to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for three persons. Ling Pie.—Take three or four pounds of the thiu part of a salt ling, wash it m two or three waters, and lot it soak for a couple of hours; then put it into a fish-kottlo, with as much water as will cover it, and lot it boil slowly until done enough. Tako ofl: the skin, and put layers of the fish into a pie-dish, with four hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, a little chopped parsley, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace strewn amongst them. Add three ounces of fresh butter divided into small pieces; pour over the fish a quarter of a pint of gravy. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, place a cover of the same over the top, brush it over with egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Before serving pour a cupful of waim cream into the pie. Time to bake, about one hour and a half. Probable cost of ling, 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Ling, Slices of, Stewed.—Cut about one pound of fresh Hng into sUces nearly three- quarters of an inch thick, rub them over with pepper and salt, and fry them in boiling fat for about ten minutes. Place them in a stewpan, and cover them with a little stock. Put with them a sprig of parsley, a stick of celery, a quarter of a blade of mace, a quarter of a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and a small piece of thin lemon-rind, and simmer gently for half an hour. Put the slices on a hot dish, and after straining the gravy, and thickening with flour and butter, pom- it boiling over them. Serve as hot as possible. A tea-spoonful of lemon- juice may be added or not. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two persons. Linseed.—This is the seed of the flax plant. It is small, oval, oblong, acute at the extremities, glossy, and brown. Internally it is white. The taste of linseed is mucilaginous and oily. The infusion of linseed in boiling water yields a demulcent mucilage, which is much used as a domestic medicine in coughs (see Linseed Tea). The linseed shordd not bo boiled in the water, as that extracts the oil contained in the linseed as well as the mucilage, and renders the decoction nauseating. Linseed Tea (Invalid Cookeky).—Put an ounce of linseed into a jug, pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely, and let it stand for half an hour. Pour it into another and serve either hot or cold. Half burnt Bugaz-. Curuvoa, of winch the reader will fand an account under its proper lieudiug. K.u-BchwaBHer is made in (ji(;i-maiiy and .Switzer- land trom cherry.juice fermented. The name Bigmlies cherry-water. Large quantities are nmuuiactmed in the Black Forest. This Uqueui- always contains some prussic acid from the cherry-stones, and sometimes so much hh to bo almost poisonous. In Kiiimnel, or iJoppel- Kiimmel, we liavo the chief Uqueur of Kussia. It is prepared in the usual way with sweetened spirit, flavoured with cumin and caraway-seeds, the latter being generally so largely employed as to conceal any other flavour. The principal seat of its manufacture is Kiga; a superior 801-t of Kiimmel, however, is made at Weissen- stein, in Esthonia. The principal difference between the Riga and the Weissenstein article lies in the greater purity of the spirit used at the latter place, llaraschino is distilled from bruised cherries. The wild fruit is not used, but a deHcately-flavoui-ed variety grown only in Dalmatia. Noyau, or Creme de Noyau, is a sweet cordial flavoured with bitter almonds (bruised). Peppermint is a common liqueur, much in demand amongst the lower classes in the metropolis. Generally it consists of ordi- nary sweetened gin, flavoui-ed with the essential oil of peppermint, which is pre-viously rubT^ed up with refined sugar, to enable it to miy with the^very weak spirit. the following liqueurs work imder their re- Recipes for making will be found in this spective headings:— Cherky Brandy- CURA90A CURR.U^T Four-Fruit Ginger Cordial Hawthorn Jet,ly Lemon Liquorice and i\lACARONI Mead Noyau Orange Punch Ratafia Shrub Syrup por Liqueurs. Liquorice Root.— Liquorice is a long and creeping root, procured from a plant of the pod-bearing tribe. It is culti- vated in England, but is a native chiefly of Spain and of Southern Europe. The extract of the root is known as " black sugar," "stick hquo- rice," "Spanish juice," or "hard extract of liquorice." It forms the basis of several kinds of lozenges, and is added generally to soothing drinks. It is employed, as every one knows, as a demulcent remedy in coughs and other complaints. Even when used in considerable quantity it does -not disorder the stomach, or even create thirst hke common sugar. Little Ladies' Tart (a pretty dish for a juvenile party).—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into half a poimd of flour. Add a pinch of salt, tlii-ee oimces of pounded sugfir, and three well-beaten eggs. Work those ingi-edionts into a firm iwste, and roll it out tlrcce or four times, dredging liglitly with flour to prevent it sticking to the board.' Slake it into a round shape, about quarter of an inch in thickness, ornamcni the outside edge with a fork or si)oon, put it on an oven plate, and bake in a quick oven, "\^^lon sufficiently cooked, take it out and let it cool. Just before serving, spread lightly over it different coloured jellies and