( 198 ) EGG with beaten egg, and cover with fine bread- crumbs, well seasoned with salt and white pepper. Put thorn into an oven to brown, or fry in lard or dripping till tlvoy are of a fine brown colour; lay theiu boforo the tire to drain, if fried, and serve garnished with fried parsley. Time, half an hour to boil pottitoos. Probal/le cost, Id. to 2d. per pound. Allow one pound for three persons. Eggs and Sauce.—Chop finely a tea- spoonful each of parsley and chives, and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a little flour; add a glass of sherry, a tea- spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of pei^per. When the sauce has simmered about ten minutes, have ready half a dozen poached eggs; lay them on toast, and send to table with the sauce poured round. Sufficient sauce for six eggs. Probable cost. Is., without wine. Eggs and Sauce Robert.—Boil twelve eggs tor fifteen minutes, quarter them, after removing the shells, and have ready the above sauce, in which the eggs should be placed just long enough to heat them thoroughly; gently mix them with the sauce, that they may not get broken, and serve hot {see Eobert Sauce). Allow two eggs for each person. Eggs and Sorrel.—Like spinach, sorrel requires much washing to clear it from grit. When well drained, cut up enough nice leaves to fill a pint, and either stew them in an earthen- ware jar in a cool oven, or in a stewpan with two oimces of dissolved butter, pepper, and salt. While the sorrel is stewing, boil four eggs hard and bruise the yolks with a quarter of a pint of cream, and when it is tender, stir the mixture into it by degrees. Serve, turned out smooth on a dish, with hard-boiled eggs (allow six for this quantity of sorrel), quartered and arranged over and round it. Time, about twenty-five minutes to prepare. Sxifficient for three per- sons {see also Eggs and Spinach, or Sorrel). Eggs tvUd Spinach. —Prepare some spinach by washing very carefully, and then boiling tiU tender. Put into cold water to keep the colour good, and when quite cold, press the water out of it, a little at a time, in a towel. Chop it .very fine, and put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter and some rich gravj'. Boil it quickly in this, and add pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Or it may be stewed with cream and a little sugar, which is a very delicate method. Poach six eggs, and trim them neatly. Serve them upon the spinach. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil; five minutes to stew. Pro- bable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Eggs and Spinacli, or Sorrel.—Poach not quite new-laid eggs, rut some boiling water into a clean frying-pan, and when it boils up, draw the pan aside and slip into it egg after egg, previously broken into cups ; add a table-spoon- ful of vinegar, if liked, to the water, and simrner till the white is set, then remove with a slice, trim, and lay the eggs on the spinach. A tin egg- poacher is an assistance to an inexperienced cook in this delicate operation. Break an egg into each perforated cup, and place the machine in a etewpan of boiling water; the eggs are easily slipped out as soon as done. To those who like acids, sorrel may be used instead of sijinach. S(!rv() cither under the poached eggs. 'J'inie to poach eggs, two and a half Uj three nuiiutes. Two eggs sufficient for one person. Eggs and White Sauce.-Cut five hard- boilod uggs in liitlves, so as to form cu^js of the whites when the yolk is removed. Mix the yolks to a jjastt! with a table-spoonful of cream and an ounc;e of butt(ir ; add to it a tea-Hj>oonf ul of minced onion and parsley, and when wcU flavoured with salt and (•ayeune, fill the whites and set them over steam till quitfi hot. Pare off the pointed tips, as before directed {nee Eggs a la Bonne Femme), that they may stand steadily on the dish. Serve in white sauce. Time, ten minutes to boil eggs. Eggs, as Snow.—Separate the yoUcs from the whites of six eggs. Beat the whites to a froth, with a little finely-powdered sugar. Have ready a full pint of new milk well sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower water, or rose-water. When it boils, drop in, one by one, table-spoonfuls of the frothed egg, and when set, remove each with a shce. By vary- ing the quantity dropped in, a handsomer dish will be obtained than by keeping to one uniform size. Arrange the patches of snow on a large dish, and group the large ones in the centre. If the milk has cooled a little, mix the egg-yolks slowly and very gradually with it till all is used, and it has become thick. Pour this amongst and around, but not over the snow. Serve cold as a supper dish. Eggs (au Gratin).—Chop very fine an an- chovy, an eschalot, and a sprig of parsley, and mix them with three yolks of eggs to a small cupful of bread-crumbs and two ounces of butter; season with salt and pepper. Have ready a hot dish ; butter it well, and strew the mixture over the bottom. Place the dish in a Dutch oven, and brown it slightly; then break half a dozen eggs into separate cups and slide them neatly on to the dish, after which return it to the oven for three minutes, or until the whites have set. Serve immediately. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three persons. Eggs (au IVIiroir).—Spread butter upon a dish that can be set on the fire; break the egg over it, adding salt, pepper, and two spoonfuls of milk; place it on a slow fire, with a red-hot shovel over it, and serve when the eggs are set. Or, cut some asp'aragus tops into nieces like peas; boil them a quarter of an hour, then take them out, and put them into a ste•^^^)an, -w-ith a bunch of parsley, chives, and a piece of butter; set them over a slow fire, put in a pinch of flour, add a Httle water, and let them stew, seasoning I with salt and sugar. When done, put them I into the dish they are to be served in, and break over them some eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set them for a short time over the fire, press a red-hot shovel over, and serve the yolks soft. Eggs, Beating.—This is best done with rods of wood in a shallow, flat-bottomed pan; bestow the beating with short, quick, down- ward strokes, ^^nthout moving the elbow, which shoiUd be kepi close to the side. When the