PBINCIPLES—OYSTER SAUCE—STEAKS—OMELETS. table-spoonful of cold milk will do. Now add a little pepper and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. It is wonderful how anchovy sauce brings out the flavour of oysters. I would advise cooks to taste the sauce which is flavoured only with the oyster liquor and beards, before adding the anchovy sauce, and after it has been added. The change in the flavour is so wonderful that they will have a good practical lesson of the importance of little things for flavouring purposes. The next point is the oysters, which we left in a little basin. First have ready the sauce tureen, empty, but thoroughly hot. Have also ready on the fire a large saucepan or stewpan with boiling water. Next take a small strainer in the right hand, and hold it in the boiling water till the water boils with the metal part of the strainer in it. Lift the strainer just above the boiling water, and pour the oysters out of the little basin into it. Let the oysters be in contact with the boiling water not more than two or three seconds, let the water strain ofi* them, and then throw them into the hot tureen. Pour the sauce on to them, and the oyster sauce is ready. Now a moment's consideration will show that we have treated the oystore just on the same principle that we did the leg of mutton, viz., we have surrounded each oyster with a very thin film that keeps in the flavour. Had we allowed the oystei-s to have remained in the boiling water for two or three minutes instead of two or thi'ee seconds, we should have made them as tough as leather j had we not put them in at all, they would have lost much of their flavour as soon as they were put into the sauce, besides having a somewhat flabby taste. By doing what I have said, the hardening process went on just long enough to surround each oyster with a coating not thicker perhaps than a piece of gold-beater's skin, but then, when the oyster arrived at its destination, the mouth, the moment this coating was broken, the whole of the flavour could be tasted. Why does a well-cooked chop or steak look black outside and red in, and why does it require a clear bright fire ? Because this is the only way in which it can be cooked to keep in the flavour. The fierceness of the fire suiTounds the chop or steak, as the case may be, with a hard coating almost directly the meat is placed on the gridiron. When the steak comes up and is cut, you can then see the red gravy run out, and not before. Many a chop and steak is spoilt by turning it with a fork, as of course it lets out the gravy, which runs into the fire. I will now turn to quite another subject, viz., omelets. The principle of cook- ing here to be considered is how to make things light. Now how often do you get an omelet in a private house fit to eat ? Never—at least, that is my experience. And yet an omelet is really a very easy thing to make. The secret of a light omelet is to froth the eggs. But I will go through the recipe ah initio. Suppose first the omelet to be a savoury one. First take a new frying-pan, or one that has only cooked omelets before—it is no use tryiug to make an omelet in a frying-pan that has been used for all sorts of purposes. Take three eggs, and break them one by one into a cup, to see if they are good, and put them in a basin. Add a piece of onion, chopped finely, as big as the top of the first finger down to the nail, and about half a tea^spoonful of equally finely chopped parsley, about a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a one of pepper. Add two table-spoonfuls of milk. Now place in the small new frying-pan—which must first be cleaned with boiling soda and water, as new tin is sometimes poisonous—two ounces of fresh butter. Place the frying-pan on the fire, to melt the butter tUl it froths. Next, with a fork—a wooden fork is best—beat up the eggs with the milk, chopped onion, and parsley, and pepper and salt, till it is quite frothy. Keep on beating till the last