POW ( 228 ) PRA with cuiTy.powdor; fry till brown in butter. Spnnklo linoly-slirod ouiou dui-ing the fryinL' iiud when the moat is liiilf doue, mid of a piilo brown, pour in some white stock, aud finish tho cooking-; add a little lomon-juico, audsorvohot. Fowl, White Oyster Sauce for.— Strain tliti liiinor from a dozen oysters, and bo cMireful to pr(3sorve every drop of it. Put into a stowpan the strained liquor, half a pint of milk, a thickening of butter and Hour, a little lomon-rind, a blade of mace pounded, and I very little cayenne. Stir in thi-eo or four ' ttible-spoonfuls of cream, and continue to stir till tho sauce is thick; then pour it over tho scalded oysters, which should previously have / been washed and bearded, and put into a clean saucepan. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, move the sauce round for a minute or two, then serve in a tui-een. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 9d. to 23. per dozen. Sufficient for a large tureen. Fowl with Ham, Potted—Chop to- gether six ounces of cooked ham and the meat of a hot roast chicken; pound these in a mortar, with four ounces of butter. Boil down the bones of the chicken with the skin and the gravy from the roasting, season with salt, pep- per, mace, and cayenne; reduce the mixture to a glaze, and add it to the pounded meat. Press the fowl and ham into shallow earthen pots, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. Fowl, with Macaroni.—Cut up a fowl into neat pieces, and make a seasoning of pepper and salt—a salt-spoonful of each—and a little grated nutmeg; roU the pieces in the seasoning, dredge them with browned flour, and fry lightly, using oil or butter. Stew the bones and trim- mings ; put them into a stewpan with a quart of water, or broth from the boiling of veal, if at hand, a carrot, a sliced onion, a piece of garlic about the si^e of a pea, a small bunch of parsley, a clove or two, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and two of grated cheese, with salt to taste. YVlien the bones, &c., have stewed an hour, or more, strain. Have ready a stew- pan, containing three ounces of dissolved butter, place five or six ounces of good maca- roni, previously soaked an hour in water, into it, pour the strained gravy over, and simmer until soft; then arrange the fowl in the centre of a dish, with the macaroni as a wall round it. Pour half a wine-glass of Marsala into the gravy, make it hot, and serve thrown over the fowl. Time to fry fowl, ten minutes ; to simmer macaroni, one hour and a half. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Fowl, with Onions. — Pluck, draw, singe, and wash a fowl, and truss as if for boil- ing ; lay it, with a pint of white broth, in a sauce- pan. The pan should be previously rubbed with butter, and the fowl should also be smeared with it. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and stew gently for half an hour; then add a dozen and a lialf of small onions, and stew another half hour. The fowl should be turned three or four times during tho cooking. Pro- bable cost, 3s. to 3a. fid. Sufficient for threp or four poraoai. Fowl, with Oysters.—A fowl, cooked according to the folLjwing recipe, will have a decided Bupeiioiity of flavoui- over one boiled in the usual way. Put a young fowl, well lillod with oystorH, from which the beards liave boon removed, mto a stone jar, and tho jar again into a wiucoi)an of water. Cover the jar to prevent tho stftam escajnug, and stow gently. Tho gravy in the jar, of which there will be a sufficient quantity to sei've with the fowl, may be made, with tlie addition of an egg and a little cream, into a white sauce; or it may be simply thickened with butter and flour. Time, one hour and a half to stew. Oysters, Is. &d. to 2s. per dozen. Fowl, with Peas.—Fry the remains of a cold roust fowl in two ounces of butter until they are oi a good brown colour. Have ready on a pLate a little flour, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Mix these ingredients weU, and turn each piece of fowl as it comes from the frying-pan, in the mixture. Place a stewpan over the fire, with half a pint of broth or gi-avy, a pint of peas, and a tea-spoonful of sugar; into this put the fowl, and stew untd the peas are tender. Serve the peas in the centre of the dish, and arrange the pieces of fowl in a circle round them. Probable cost, exclusive of fowl, 8d. Fowl, with Rice,—Prepare the fowl as if for boiling; cover with water, or good veal broth, if at hand. Skim well while boOing, and put into the saucepan, half an hour before the fowl is cooked, a quarter of a poimd of rice, salt, pepper, and an onion. Stew very gently till tender. Take out the fowl, strain the rice, and put the latter before the fire to swell; thicken the broth with flour and butter; ser^'e the fov\l on the centre of a dish, wdth the rice round, and the sauce over all. The delicate appearance of the fowl will be spoiled if the rice be not well- washed, and the scum carefully removed. Time, one ho ir to boil fowl; half an hour to stew rice. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, with Rice Croquettes.—Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of good broth, and let it simmer, afterwards adding two or three ounces of butter, until the liquid has evaporated, and the rice is left quite dry. WTien cold, mould into balls; insert a spoon, and press the rice in the middle, so as to form a hoUow, which fill with minced fowl, moistened slightly with be(,'hamel sauce. . Close the opening with some more rice, and fry, dipping each ball into egg, and rolling it in bread-crumbs. When of a nice brown, serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Time, half an hour to boil rice; ten minutes to fry croquettes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of fowl. Prangipane.—Beat six eggs until light, add to them gradually a pint of new milk and two small spoonfuls of flour. Put the mixture over the fire in a clean saucepan, \^T.th a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and when close at the boiling point andthickish, stir in two ounces of crushed ratafias, a glass of rum or brandy, some grated lomon-rind, and two ounces of butter, browned filiorhtly in a clean pan. This delicious creamy pi oparation is an excellent a-.ibhlitute for cuetai-J.