beaten, and the clarified butter. Beat for ten niiiiutos with a wooden spoon. Pour the mix- ture into 11 woll-buttored pio-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. AVhon the cake is sullicieutlv cooked (tbia may be ascertained by pushing a skewer into it, and if it comes out dry and clean it is done enough), take it out, and cover it with sugar and blanched almonds {nee Genoa Cake). Time, three-cpiarters of an hour to bake, a quarter of an hour o.xtra to brown the almonds. Sufficient for a pudding-dish two inches deep and five inches square. Probable i^ost. Is. Gd., exclusive of the brandy. Genoese Sauoe for Pish.—Make half I i)int of good brown sauce, thickened with a iLtle floui' and butter. Put it into a sauceimn, u id stir into it a table-spoonful of finely-minced p;irsley, a table-spoonful of port, twenty drops of the essence of anchovies, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, and as much pounded mace as wiU stand on a thi-eepenny piece. Boil for five or six minutes, stirring aU the time, and serve in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the port, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for rather more than half a pint of sauce. Genoises de Nouilles (sometimes called Genoises a la Heine).—Beat thoroughly the yolks of four eggs, and mix with them as much dried flour as will make a thick batter. Divide this into four parts, and roll each out as thin as possible. By the time all are rolled, the first one will be sufficiently dry to be cut into small strips, as thin as twine. Spread them on writing paper, and place them before the fire to dry. Drop them into a pint and a half of boil- ing milk, with six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, aud the finely-grated rind of a large lemon. Simmer gently for thirty-five minutes, when the mixture should be a thick batter. It must be well stirred, par- ticularly at first, to prevent it forming into lumps. Pour it out, and, as it cools, add the yolks of six eggs, well beaten. Butter a baking- tin, and pour the paste smoothly and evenly over it, making it about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. When it is sufficiently cooked, divide it into two parts, spread a little jam over one half, turn the other half upon it, stamp out in fancy shapes with a cutter, and pile the genoises in a dish. This mixture is very good baked in tartlet tins, and eaten while hot. It does not improve with keeping. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. George Pudding. See Geneva Pudding (sometimes called George Pudding). George the Fourth's Punch.—Take a quarter of a pound of sugar in large limips, and rub them upon one lemon and two SevUle oranges, till all the yellow is rubbed off. Put them into a large punch bowl, with the juice and pulp of the oranges and lemon, leave the sugar to soak a little while, then mix it thoroughly with the juice, and a cupful of boiling water, and stir until nearly cold. Add half a pint of pine-apple syrup, one pint of strong green tea, one largo glass of maraschino, two table-spoonfuls of arrack, three table- spoonfuls of Jamaica rum, one pint of pale brandy, and one bottle of champagiic. Straiji, and serve. A little more sugar may bo required' but this will depend on the acidity of the fruil! Time, one hour to prepare. Huflicient for throe quarts of puncli. German Asparagus Soup.—Make two quarts of good white soup, either from bones or fresh meat {see Stock). Season it with salt aud pepper, and thicken with a little flour, mixed in milk till it is of the consistence of cream. Cut the green part of one hundred heads of asparagus into pieces, three-quarters of an inch long, put them into the soup, and boil mitil they are tender, but they must not be over- cooked. If it is desired that the soup should be a little richer, add the yolks of three eggs, mixed with a little milk. The soup must be drawn from the fire a minute or two before the eggs are put in, and it must not boil after they are added. Time, one hour, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 9d. per quart, allowing 4d. per quart for stock made from bones, and a little fresh meat. German Biscuits.—Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and stir into them half a poimd of sifted loaf sugar. Beat them for twenty minutes, then add the peel of a small lemon, grated, two dessert-spoonfuls of cream, and, gradusilly, haK a pound of fine flour. Mix all well together, roU the pastry out very thin, stamp it, with an ordinary pastry-cutter, into different shapes, and bake in buttered tins, m a quick oven, till Hghtly coloured, which will be in about seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, 6d. German Broth, or Winter Hotch- potch.—Boil a neck of mutton, weighing about three pounds, in as much water as will cover it, with one pound of dried green peas, which have been soaked in cold water for some hours, one pint and a half of carrots and turnips cut into slices, and a halfpenny-worth of bruised celery-seed, tied in a piece of muslin. Boil gently for one hour and a half. Add one poimd of mutton chops, cut from the best end of the neck, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea- spoonful of pepper. Boil half an hour longer, and serve. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. German Cakes.—Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to a cream. Mix with it one pound and a half of sugar, four eggs — well beaten—two pounds of fine flour, half a nut- meg grated, one poimd of dried and picked ciu-- rants, and half a wine-glassful of rose-water. When all these ingredients are well-blended, roll the dough in sheets about the eighth of an inch in thickness, stamp them in rounds with the top of a tea-cup, and bake in a quick oven. Time, to bake ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. German Cream.—This cream should be made in the evening of the day before it is wanted. Put half a pint of cream into a sauce- pan, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and the thiidy-cut rind of half a lemon. Let it stand