oassell's cookehy. Unfortunately, too, this bad flavour will be attributed to the tish ratiier than to the butter. Remember also in serving whitebait, m in serving a soulflet, a very few minutes' delay means ruin. There is one compound so intimately connected with fish that we tliink some reference should be made to it while we are discussing the subject of tlie prin- ciples to be observed in cooking fish of all kinds. We refer to melted butter. There are, perhaps, few dishes more essentially English than that large tureen of so-called melted butter, but which is in reality milk, or perhaps water, thickened with butter and flour, in which the latter really predominates. There is, too, probably nothing sent to table so extravagant as ordinary melted butter, as, for some reasons unknown, the cook seems possessed with an idea that persons eat melted butter as they do soup. It will almost invariably be found that melted butter, say for four persons, is sent up in sufficient quantity for twenty; and as there are few cooks who know, or care even if they do know, how to utilise the melted butter that is left, too often the greater part of this expensive and extravagant sauce is absolutely thrown away. I say expensive and extravagant advisedly, for properly-made melted butter is very nearly literally what the name implies. As good melted butter, or, as it is sometimes called, butter-sauce, is an ex- ceedingly nice and delicious accompaniment to most kinds of fish, and as in nine houses out of ten it is sent up in an uneatable form, I will, at the risk of being tedious, describe how to make it, and will at the same time remind cooks that melted butter is often looked upon as a crucial test of a good cook. Good melted butter is a happy medium between that very small quantity of curdled oil sent up as an accompaniment to fish at second-rate French hotels or restaurants and that large tui'een brimming fidl of thick milk genei'ally served in private houses. Just as in Ufe we ofttimes learn as much from our mistakes as we do from our successes, so it is often a good method of teaching first to describe "how not to do it." The usual but wrong method of making melted butter is as follows:—The cook cuts oflf a lump of butter at random, and places it on a plate with about an equal quantity of flour, standing the plate in front of the fire to allow the butter to sufl[iciently dissolve to enable her to mix the flour and butter altogether, which is generally done, too, with a steel knife. This kneaded butter and flour is then added to a pint or more of milk or water, or a mixture of the two, and the whole stirred together over a fire in a saucepan till thick—the reason of the butter and flour being kneaded together first being that it is then much less liable to render the sauce lumpy and curdled. All this is generally done by guess-work, and too often, owing to the quantity of flour hein^r miscalculated, the result resembles in consistency a pudding rather than a sauce. The great mistake in this method is the absurdly large quantity of milk or water and the equally absurd small quantity of butter. The fii-st idea the cook must clearly grasp is quantity. Butter, especially in the present day, is very expensive, and as butter-sauce consists mainly of butter, the cook must make sufficient, but not more than suflicient. Suppose, therefore, there are eight persons going to sit down to dinner, it may be calculated that each person will take one ladleful of melted butter with their fish, and no more; for if it be properly made it will look sufficiently rich to deter any one from what is vulgariy called " swimming " theii- plate with it.