ttXJO DUG ( 187 ) pan to the side, and stir in five ounces of dried and sifted flour. Put the mixture again upon the fire, and stir it briskly with a wooden spoon for three or four minutes; then add a little lemon or orange flavouring and a well-beaten egg; and when this is thoroughly incorporated with the other ingredients a second egg may be added, and if it is requii-ed the yolk of a third, but the eggs must be added singly and whisked thoroughly before they are put in, and care must be taken that the paste is left stiff enough not to spread when it is put upon the baking sheet. Make the paste up into small flat loaves, four inches long and one inch and a half wide, and bake these on a buttered sheet until they are Vghtly and evenly coloured. A few minutes before they are taken from the oven sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, and before serving open them at the side, and introduce a little jam or marmalade. Pile them neatly on a napkin before sending them to table. Pastry of tins kind should be slowly baked. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dish. Duck (a la Fran<jaise).—Lard the breast of a duck with bacon, and put it on the spit before a clear fire for twenty minutes, and then into a atewpan of gravy previously prepared in the following manner:—To one pint of beef gravy add two dozen chestnuts, roasted and peeled, two onions, sliced and fried in butter, two sage-leaves, and a sprig of thjTne; pepper and salt. When the duck has stewed twenty minutes put it on a dish, add a quarter of a pint of port wine to the g^a^'y, a little butter and flour to thicken, pour it hot over the duck, and serve. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck (a r Italienne).—Cook a.duck en braise {see Duck, Braised, with Turnips). Put two large table-spoonfuls of oil into a stewpan, add a bunch of parsley, some chives and mushrooms, mince them very finely and stew for ten minutes, then thicken with flour, and pour the gravy from the duck, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Skim and strain the whole, which ought to be rather thick, and send to table with the duck. Time to braise, three-quartei-s to one hour. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck (a la mode).—Take a couple of ducks, divide them into quarters, and lay them in a stewpan with a sprinkling of flour, pepper, and salt. Put a large lump of butter di\'ided into pieces at the bottom of the stewpan, and fry the ducks imtil they are a nice light brown colour. Remove the frjTng fat, and pour in half a pint of gravy, and a glass of port; sprinkle more flour and add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three shallots minced fine, an anchovj', and a little cayenne. When the ducks have been stewing in the gravj for about twenty minutes, if the stewpan has been tightly closed, they will be found done enough. Put the ducks on a dish, take out the herbs, clear off any fat, and serve with the sauce thrown over them. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. per couple. Sufficient, a couple of ducks for six or seven persons. Duck Boiled.—" A duck boiled is a duck spoiled," is an old proverb, but had the originator lived in the north of Wales it never would have been uttered. There they boil ducks often and well, but they salt them first, and serve them smothered with onion sauce. Time to simmer gently, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Sufficient for four or more persons. Duck, Braised, with Green Peas.— Prepare and cook as for turnips (see the fol- lowing recipe), using green peas instead of the small slices of turnips. Fry two onions in butter tin they are of a pale brown, and boil them to a thick sauce, with some of the gravy from the duck. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with the peas laid under the duck and the gravy thrown over. Time, one hour for duck; peas, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. Use one quart of peas. Duck, Braised, with Turnips.—Pre- pare a duck as if for roasting. Line a small pan just large enough for the duck, with slices of bacon. Strew over the bottom a little parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon-peel. Lay in the duck, and add a carrot cut into strips, an onion stuck with three cloves, season with pepper, and cover with stock broth and a glass of white wine. Baste frequently, and simmer an hour, or till done. Fry some slices of turnip in butter to a light brown, drain and add them to the stewpan, after removing the duck, which should be kept hot. When the turnips are tender remove them and strain the gravy, thickening if necessary with a little flour. Put the duck on a dish, throw the hot gravy over, and garnish with the tiimips. Fry the turnips eight or ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Duck, Devilled (alaFran^aise).—Dividu a duck down the middle, prick the flesh aU over with a skewer, and rub into it a mixture of mustard, pepper, salt, and chutney sauce, then broil or roast. Make a gravy of equal quantities of rich stock, white wine, ketchup, and lemon-pickle, two table-spoonfuls of each, add a little sugar, warm all together and serve hot over the duck. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to broil. Duck-Giblet Soup.—Of duck giblets three or foui- sets will be required, as they are small, and the feet are now left attached to a duck when roasted. Scald four sets, clean and cut them into pieces of an inch in length. Put them into a saucepan with three quarts of water, a pound of gravy beef (or if more convenient some stock may be added after the giblets have been stewed), two onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, and the rind of a ver^^ small lemon. Simmer tUl the bones are loose and the gizzard soft, then strain the broth, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and put the giblets into a tiireen by the side of the fire. Brown some thin slices of onion in butter, and stir in some flour to thicken the soup; po\ir the broth into the stewpan with the thickening, and stir for ten minutes or till it boils, then skim and strain into the tureen, adding one or two glasses of Madeira, a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and the