GUA ( 285 ) GRO with fried sippets. Probable cost, 8d., exclu- sive of the grouse and wine. Sufficient for si.\ or seven persons. Grouse Soup.—Koast a brace of grouse for a quarter of an houi- or twenty minutes; then cut oft the breast and the best of the meat, and lay it aside. Pound the rest of the meat in a mortar, and fry it in a little butter with tkree ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into dice, a chopped carrot and onion, a bay- leiif, and a sprig of thjTne and parsley. When lightly browned, add two quarts of good stock and the bones of the grouse. Stew gently for an hoMX, skimming carefully to remove the fat, then strain the soup, and add to it a table- spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, two blades of mace, pounded, and a little brown thickening (see Gravy, Brown, Roux). Simmer half an hour longer. A few minutes before serving, put in the breasts, &c., of the grouse, cut into slices, and a glass of claret. Make the soup hot once more, and serve. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Probable cost. Is., ex- clusive of the grouse and wine. Grouse Soup (anotherway).—Take a brace of grouse, or any other game, cut them into neat joints, andfrj'them inbuttertill lightly browned, then put them into two quaits of good un- seasoned stock, with half a drachm of bruised celerj--seed, or the outer sticks of two heads of cfilery, three onions, with two or three cloves stuck in them, and a table-spoonful of ground rice, smoothly mixed with a little cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, then simmer gently, and about twenty minutes before the soup is taken off add a fresh young cabbage, quartered. Simmer gently till the game is tender. Season with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a drachm of cayenne. A little mushroom-ketchup and a wine-glassful of claret may be added, if liked. Time, ten minutes to fry the grouse; simmer the game until tender. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Grouse, To Hash..—Take the remains of cold grouse, and cut them into neat joints. Put the skins, bones, and trimmings into a saucepan with two shallots, sliced, and three ounces of butter rolled thickly in flour. She^ the pan over the fire \mtil the butter is melted and lightly browned, then add half a pint, of stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a blade of mace, pounded. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Strain the gravy, and return it to the saucepan with a glass of claret. Let it boil up, then put in the pieces of "grouse, and when these are quite hot, serve immediately, with toasted sippets round the dish. The gravy mu.st not boil after the grouse is put in. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the grouse and wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Grouse. To Pot.—When grouse has to be preserved for sending to a distance, or for any other purpose, it maybe potted. In this condition it will remain good for throe or four weeks, and is vers* highly esteemed amongst epicures. Pre- pare the birds, as if for roasting. Season them rather highly, and put inside each two ounces of butter. Lay them closely in a pie-dish, and place small lumps of butter here and there^ upon them. Pour wine over them, port or claret is the most suitable, and a small tumblerfu] should be allowed for each brace. Tie two oi three folds of paper over the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. When cold, drain, and dry the birds, put them singly, breast upwards, into small pots, and cover with clarified butter. Sufficient, one brace for four or five persons. Gruel, Barley.—Wash a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in two or thi-ee waters. Put it into a saucepan with four pints of water, and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Simmer gently, until the liquid is reduced one-half; then strain, and return it to the saucepan, with two large lumps of sugar, and two wine-glassfuls of port. Keep it in a cool place, and heat it as required. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for two pints and a half of gruel. Gruel, Barley (another way).—Excellent barley gruel can be quickly made if the pre- pared barley be used, which is sold at all the grocers'. Mix a table-spoonful smoothly with a little cold water, stir it into one pint of boil- ing water, and simmer gently for twenty minutes or more. Season and flavour a» desired. Probable' cost, Id. Sufficient for a pint of gruel. Gruel, Barley (another way).—See Barley Gruel. Gruel, Oatmeal.—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal with two of cold water. Stir it into a pint of boiling water, and in a quarter of an hour strain off for use. Season and flavour it according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Id. Sufficient for a pint of gruel. Gruel of Embden Groats (for in- fants).—Put a quarter of a pint of Embden groats into three pints of cold water, and, when smooth, boil it gently for two hours or more, until the liquid is as thick as required. Stir it frequently. Strain and sweeten according to taste. The same groats may be boiled twice. A little cream or milk is often added before using. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gruel. Gruel of Patent Groats.—Mix a table- spoonful of patent groats smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cold water. Pour in a pint of boiling water, and stir for ten minutes, or more, over the fire. Sweeten and season, if desired, No straining is needed. A small lump of butter boiled with the gruel is an improvement, but in this, as well as the seasoning and flavouring, the taste of the invalid shoiild be consultod. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 2d. per pint. Guard's Cup.—Mix half a pint of sheny and half a bottle of perry with a bottle of cider. Add half a pint of brandy, a pint of rum-shrub, and half a gallon of water. Just before using, pour in a bottle of champagne, and place on the top a sprig of borage. This cup is very good, though not so good, without the champagne