( 166 ) CRXT five or BIX minutes ; time to brown the crust, it should be left all night in a cool oven. Crumbs, Substitute for.—Some cooks, when frying finli, Hiibstituto oatmeal for grated bread-crumbs. It costs comparatively nothing, and requires no preparation. Crumpets.—Warm one pint of new milk and one ounce of butter in a saucepan; when the butter molts, take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and mi.x with it a beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and Hour enough to make it into batter; lastly, put with it a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Cover it, and let it stand in a warm place for a quarter of an hour. Bake the crumpets slightly on an iron plate made for the purpose, and well greased. If this is not at hand, they may be baked in the frying-pan. When one side appears sufficiently cooked turn them quickly on the other. Crumpets may, however, be bought for a trifling expense, and as they take a good deal of trouble to prepare, it does not seem worth while to make them at home when they can be purchased. They shoiild be toasted and plentifully buttered ; they ■will be soft and wooUy; they are rather like a blanket soaked in butter, and are nearly as indigestible. Time to bake, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. each. Allow two for each person. Crumpets, Scotch.—Cnmipets in Scot- land are made with oatmeal or unbolted flour instead of the ordinary flour. Crumpet and MufOLn Pudding.— Butter a plain round mould, and place in it alternately two muffins and three crumpets. Split open the muffins and put a little red cur- rant jelly in each. Pour over them a light batter, cover the mould closely, and boil or steam for an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five persons. Crust, Butter, for Boiled Puddings. —Put one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder into a basin, mix them well, then rub into them six ounces of fresh butter. Work the mixture with a knife or fork into a paste by the addition of half a pint of water. Roll it out once or twice, and it will be ready for use. Butter must be used for pudding-crust when suet is disliked, as lard is not nice for boiled puddings. If a richer crust is preferred, another ounce or two of butter may be added, but for ordinary pud- dings the crust just described is excellent. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 6d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for a pudding large enough for three or four persons. Crust, Common, for Raised Pies. —Melt a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of lard in half a pint of water. Put two pounds of flour into a basin, and when the butter and lard are melted in the water, pour them into the flour, stirring it all the time. Work the mixture with the hands to a stiff paste, and, in order to keep it soft, put the portion which is not being worked upon a plate over a saucepan of hot water. Probable cost, 5d. per pound. Crust, Dripping, for Kitchen Pies.— liulj six ounces of nicely-clarified beef diipping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a small tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and a table-spoonful of sugar. filake the mixture into a stifle smooth paste by stirring cold water into it, and roll it out once only. It is then ready for use. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Crust for Fruit Tarts.-Mix a pinch of salt and two taljle-spoonfuls of sifted sugar with a pound of dry flour. Break six ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, crumble it inUj the flour, and work it into a smooth paste with a little new milk, lloll it out two or three times, and in doing so, add two ounces more of butter, and touch it with the hands as little as possibld. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to prejjare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Crust for French Tarts, Rich.— Crumble four ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and sufficient cold water to make it into a light paste. Give it three good rolls, fold it each time, and touch it very lightly. The less handling it has the better it will be. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Crust, Good.—Mix two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and a pinch of salt in a pound of flour, rub into it six ounces of butter, and mix the whole lightly together with a fork by adding the yolks of two eggs and sufficient water to work it into a smooth paste. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Crust, Lard.—Rub half a pound of lard into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and make it into a paste mixing with it a cupful of water. The unmelted lard, freed from skin and thinly sliced, makes very good pastry; but a mixture of lard and dripping, or lard and butter, makes a better crust than lard alone. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Crust, Pat^ Brisde.—Pate Brisee, the short, crisp crust which is so much used by the French for pies, is made by working the butter, lard, or suet thoroughly into the flour, which must be very drj', before it is moistened; six oimces of butter, a pinch of salt, and a small cupful of water may be allowed for everj' poiind of flour, and if it is to be used for raised pies, it must be made rather stiff. Time to prepare, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Crust, Short, Common. — Mix two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder with one poimd of dry' flour. Rub into it three ounces of good beef dripping, and work it into a smooth paste with water or new milk. Handle it as little as possible. Bake in a mode- rate oven. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Crust. Suet, for Puddings.—Allow six or eight ounces of suet and a pmch of salt for every pound of flour. Carefully remove the skin from the suet, and shred it as finely as