LET LEM ( 378 ) oxclusive of tho shon-y, Is. Sufficient for a quart of lemonade. Lemonade, Portable.—Hub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three ounces of loiif sugar. Crush it to powder, and mix witli it half an ounco of tartaric acid. When thoroughly blended, put the powder into a glass bottle, and cork closely. It will keep for some time. When wanted for use, stii- a spoonful of tho powder into a glassful of water. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a dozen tumblers of lemonade. Lemonade Syrup.—Kubtho vellowrind of six lemons upon a pound of loaf sugar. Moisten it with half a pint of water, and stir over the fire until tho sugar is dissolved and the syrup is quite clear, then draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, add the strained juice of twelve lemons, and simmer gently for two or three minutes, but the syrup must not boil after the juice is added. Bottle at once, and when cold cork closely. Time, an horn- to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient, mix a table-spoonful of the syrup with half a tumblerful of water. Lemons, To Keep for Use {see Lemon Peel, To Keej) for Use ; and also Lemon, Whole, To Keep for Use). Lentils, Boiled.—There are two varieties of lentils, Egyptian or red lentils, and German or green lentils. Both are excellent. When lentils are to be used as a vegetable, proceed as follows:—Soak a breakfast-cupful of green; lentils overnight in plenty of water; next daj-, I drain and throw them into a quart of boiling 1 water, and boil for half an hour, or till tender 1 without being broken. Drain and return to I the saucepan with a slice of butter, pej^per, j salt, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Shake over j the fire till hot, and serve immediately. Lentils, Boiled (superior method).—Boil the lentils as in the last recipe, and drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a clean stewpan, and fry in it a small onion, very finely chopped. Stir in a tea spoonful of flour, and mix to a smooth paste. Add boiling stock flavoured with vinegar to make a thick sauce, put in the boiled lentils, and simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in a tureen. If preferred, the vinegar can be omitted. Lentil Soup.—Put a breakfast-cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. Drain them and put them into a stewpan with three pints of water or greasy stock, it' it is to be had. The liquor in which pork or bacon has been boiled is excellent for the purpose. Put with them six or eight sticks of celery, two onions, one carrot, one turnip, a faggot or bouquet garni, and a crust of stale bread. Bring tho liquor to a boil and carefully remove the thick dark scum that rises to the surface, and throw in a little cold water once or twice to assist the scum in rising. As soon as the soup reaches the boiling point, draw the sauce- pan back and simmer gently for about four hours, or until tho lentils are perfectly soft. Turn the whole upon a wire sieve, pick out the bouquet garni, and rub everji;hing else patiently through the sieve into a bowl. The pulp will go tluough more easily if a little of the liquor is kept hot and is employed to moisten it occasionally. Boil the soup again before send- ing it to table, and if too tliick add a little water; tlie addition of boiling milk will be con- sidered an improvement by many. The soup iniist bo stirred frequently while boiling, or it will burn. Lentils are in themselves so nourish- ing that moat stock is not needed. Lettuo©.—There are two sorts of lettuces, the cabbage and the cos. They are chiefly used for salads, but may be also boiled or stewed, and served as a vegetable. They may be had all the year, but are in full season from March to September. Lettuce, Boiled.—Wash four or five lettuces thoroughly, cut away the thick bitter stalks, but retain all the sound leaves, whether green or white. Boil them ten or fifteen minutes in plenty of salted water, then throw them for a minute into cold water, strain, and chop them lightly. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of good white sauce. Season them with salt, pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and simmer gently \mtil quite hot. Draw the saucepan to the side for a minute, and stir among the lettuces the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lettuce in Salads.—Lettuces which are to be used for salads should be fresh and young. The thick bitter stalk should be cut off, and the outer and decayed leaves removed. The great secret in preparing lettuce for salad is to have it quite dry. In order to insure this, look the leaves over carefully. In aU proba- bility the white, tender leaves,at the heart or the plant will be entirely free from insects and grit. When this is the case, do not plunge them into water, as it only spoils the flavour. Any leaves, however, about which there is tho shghtest doubt must be scrupulously washed in two or three waters. "\\Tien taken out of the water they should be w-eU shaken, placed in a wire basket, and hung for four or five hours in an airj' situation. When a basket is not at hand, the lettuce may be divided into small pieces and shaken in a drj^ cloth until not a particle of moisture remains. The French are careful to break the lettuces with the fingers, instead of cutting them, as they maintain that contact with steel spoils the flavour of the salad. Tho sauce should never bo added until the moment before serving. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, a large lettuce for two or three pei'sons. Lettuce Salad (a Gei-man recipe) .—Prepare two large lettuces as above, shred them finely, and put them into the salad bowl. Cut four ounces of bacon into dice, fry these with a finely- minced onion for five or six minutes, and shake tho pan over the fire to prevent thorn browning. Add to the bacon a little salt (the amount will depend uiion the quality of the bacon), half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a table-spoonfid of A-inegar; pour all over the lettuce, and mix thoroughly. Servo immediately. Probable cost, 6d. 'Sufficient for four or five persons.