( 456 ) NET ifl only necessary that the water should not bo allowod to cool. Lot the nectarines remain for an hour, then take them out, throw them at once into cold water, and leave thorn for another hour. Place them on an inverted sieve to drain. Push out the stones. Put the weight of the fruit in loaf sw^ar into a prosorving-pan with a quarter of a pint oi cold water to each pound of sugar. Boil to a clear syrup, then put in the nectarines, and the kernels blanched and sliced, and lot them boil for live minutes. Pour them oarefuUy into a bowl, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Drain off tho syrup, and boil it for five minutes every day for a week, poui-ing it each time boiling hot over the fruit. At tho end of that time boil all together quickly for ten minutes. Lift the nectarines carefully out with a spoon, and put them into jars with a portion of the blanched kernels in each jar. Add the boiling syrup, and when cold tie down securely. Store in a cool dry place. Negus.—This popular beverage derives its name from its originator, Colonel Negus. The ingredients of which it is composed are either port or shen-y and hot water, the quantity of the water being double that of the wine. Sweeten with lump sugar, and flavour with a little lemon-juice, and grated-nutmeg, and a morsel only of the yellow rind of the lemon. It is an improvement to add one drop of essence of ambergris, or eight or ten drops of essence of vanilla to every twelve glasses or so of negus. Negus (another way).—Sweeten the wine according to taste, and grate a little nutmeg into it. The proportions are generally three ounces of sugar and a quarter of a small nutmeg to a pint of port. Mix with it an equal quantity of boiling water, and serve either hot or cold. The thin rind of a lemon or a Seville orange, without any of the inside of the fruit, is a great improvement to negus. Time, a ^ew minutes to prepare. Probable cost, according to the quality of the wine. Sufficient for a quart of negus. Nesselrode Pudding.—Peel two dozen Spanish chestnuts. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, then take oS the second skin, and boil them until tender with half a stick of vanilla and half the thin rind of a fresh lemon in the water with them. Drain them well, and pound them in a mortar. Press them through a . hair-sieve, and mix with them a quarter of a * pound of powdered sugar, a glass of maraschino, and half a pint of thick cream. Dissolve three- quarters of an ounce of best isinglass in a little water, stir it into half a pint of hot cream, add the chestnuts, &c., and keep stirring the mix- ture gently until it is sufficiently stifE to hold the fruit without letting it fall to tho bottom. Work in two ounces of picked and dried cur- rants, and two ounces of candied citron cut into thin strips. Put the mixture into an oUed mould, and sot in a cool place to stiffen. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil the chestnuts. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Nesselrode Pudding (another way).— Peel about two dozen Spanish chestnuts. Tlirow them into boiling water, and let them remain for five minutes. Drain them, take off tho second skin, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and lialf a stick of vauilk, and let them siuuner until quite tender; then pound in a mortar to a sniootli paste, and press them through a fine sieve. Mix the well-beaten yolka of four eggs with a pint of warm cream, and. add four ounces of loaf sugar. Put the custard into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it gently until it thickens. Put in the pounded chestnuts, and pass the mixture through a tamis. Add a glass of marascliino, and freeze in the ordinary way. Take one ounce of stoned raisins, one ounce of candied citi'ou cut into slices, and one ounce of dried and picked cur- rants. To prepare them, let them soak in a little maraschino mixed with a small quantity of sugar for several hours, or let them simmer gently in syrup for about twenty minutes, then drain and cool them. When the pudding is set, put the fruit in with it. Boil a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of water to a syrup, beat it briskly with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, mix with it the whites of three eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth. Work these into the pudding, and add last of all half a pint of whipped cream. Place the pudding in an ice-mould, put on the hd, freeze, and turn out when wanted. Pro- bable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Nettle.—The common nettle is one of a tribe of plants which includes the fig, the hop, and others employed as food. Nettles are used as an article of d'et in some parts of the country. They are wholesome, and almost medicinal in their properties. Nettle Beer.—The stalks and leaves of the nettle are used in some parts of England for making a light kind of beer, which may be seen advertised at stalls, and in humble shops in 3ilanchester and other towns. Nettle, Rennet of.—In the "Western Islands of Scotland a rennet is prepared by adding a quart of salt to three pints of a strong decoction of nettles, a table-spoonful of which is said to be sufficient to coagulate a bowl of milk. Nettle Tops.—The young tops of the common and smaller nettles may be boiled as pot-herbs during spring, and eaten as a sub- stitute for greens; they are not only nourishing, but mildly aperient. Nettles, Spring, To BoU.—In many country-places nettles are eaten freely as a vegetable in the early part of the year, as they are considered excellent for purif jang the blood. The young hght green leaves only should be taken. They must be washed carefully and boiled in two waters, a little salt and a very small piece of soda being put in the last, water. When tender, turn them into a colander, press the water from them; put them into a hot vegetable dish, score them across three or four times, and serve. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, uncertain, nettles being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, two pound* for four persons.