HEA ( 310 ) HAT nulk which has been swoetonod and flavoured with lemon-rind or nutniog. Boil up, thc-n add two ouncoa of butter, and, when cool, two egi^H well beaten. Butter four Humll moulds. Pour a quarter of the mixture into each, and bake in £ good oven. Turn out before serving, and place a little jam on the top of eacli puif. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. SuUiciout for four porsonB. ' Hattered Kit.— Pour a quart of new milk, boiling hot, upon two quarts of fresh buttermilk. Let it remain untouched until firm. Lift off the top, and drain the rest over a sieve._ If it is to be served at table, it should be put into a mould a little while before using. Send a little cream, sweetened and flavoured, to table with. it. No more of this dish should be made at once than is likely to be used, as it quickly spoils. Time, four or five hours. ' Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hawthorn Liquor (for seasoning pud- dings and sweet dishes).—Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with blossoms of the white hawthorn, which have been gathered on a dry day. Shake them together, but do not press them down. FiU the bottle with good brandy, let the haw- thorn infuse for three months, then strain off the liquor, pour it into small bottles, and cork securely. Half a tea-spoonful of hawthorn liquor -will flavour a pint of custard. Hazel-nut Cakes.—Mince two ounces of hazel-nuts and half an ounce of sweet almonds very finely. Add three ounces of povmded and sifted sugar, the white of an egg, beaten to a film froth, and as much flour as will bind them together. Eoll the paste out till it is a quarter of an inch thick, stamp it out in small round cakes, place these on well-buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for six or eight cakes. Heart, Bullock's.—Wash the heart in several waters, clean the blood carefully from the pipes, and put it to soak in vinegar and water for two hours or more. Drain it and fiU it either with hare forcemeat or sage-and-onion stuffing. Fasten it securely, tie it in a cloth, put it into a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for two hours. Take off the cloth, and roast the heart while hot, basting it plenti- fully, with good dripping for two hours longer. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly, if veal forcemeat has been used, and apple jeUy if the heart has been stuffed with sago and onions. The stewing may be omitted, and the heart simply roasted for three or four hours, but the flesh will not then be so tender. Probable cost of heart, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Heart, Bullock's, Hashed. —Take the remains of a bullock's heart, and cut it into neat slices. Take also a cupful of gravy, that which was served with the heart will answer excellently; mix with it a (piarter of a pint of po-t, clarot, or ale, and thicken it with a little Hour, mixed smoothly in a small quantity of water. Let it boH "for a few minutes, then dissolve a table-spoonful of red currant jelly in it, ]jut in the slices of heart, and, when these are heated thi-ough, serve immediately, with toasted sijjpets to garnish the dish. The gravy must not boil after the slices of heart are added lime, half an lioui-. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat and wine, 3d. Sufficient for thi'eo or four persons. Heart, Bullock's^ Stewed.-Prepare a heart as in the lust l ecipe. Soak it in vinegar and water, fill it with hare forcemeat, and put it in a saucepan, the broad end uppennost, and with it a sliced turnip and carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, two tea- spoonfuls of salt, one tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Pour over the heart a pint of good stock, or, fail- ing this, water, and half a pint of beer. Cover the pan closely, and when the Hquid has once boiled, draw it a httle to the side, and simmer gently for five hours. Send the gravy in which it was stewed to table with it. Pro- bable cost of heart, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Heart, Calf's.—Wash the heart very clean, soak it in vinegar and water, fill it with a forcemeat made of four ounces of crumb of bread, two ounces of butter, two table-spoon- fuls of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and a Httle salt and cayenne. Fasten the heart securely and roast before a clear fire for from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with good melted butter mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. A calf's heart is improved by par- tially boiling it before it is roasted. It may be baked, if more convenient, in a good oven, but in either case should be liberally basted. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Heart, Calf S (another way).—Wash and soak the heart, cut it into shces about a quarter of an inch thick, and fry these in a little hot dripping or butter. About five minutes before they are done put a slice of bacon into the pan for each sUce of heart, and when they are suffi- ciently cooked serve on a hot dish, and cover each piece of heart with a shce of bacon. Boil two or three table-spoonfuls of thin flour and water in the pan in which the meat was fried. Season it with pepper and salt, add one table-spoonful of red currant jelly, and serve as hot*as possible. Time, fifteen minutes to fry the slices of heart. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Heart. Sheep's, Baked.—Wash two or three sheep's hearts in lukewarm water, fill them with veal forcemeat, and skewer them securely. Fasten a rasher of fat bacon round each, place them in a deep dish, and with them a little good stock, and an onion stuck with two cloves. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Draw off the gravy. Thicken with a little flour and butter, and flavour it with pepper and salt and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup. . Put the hearts on a hot dish, pour the gnivy over th(>m, and send red currant jeUy with them to table.