CHE CHE ( 123 ) about lialf an hour. Probable cost of chenies, lOd. per pound. Cherries Preserved in S3n'up.— Choose light, sound, ripe chemes. Komovo tho stones without injui-ing the fruit, which may be done by drawing them out with the staik, or pushing them out at one end with a bodkin or quill. Allow a pint and a half of water and a pound of sugar- for every pound of fruit, weighed after it has been stoned. Put ihe sugar and water into a preserving-pan, and lot it boil for a quai-ter of an houi", skimming it carefully; then throw in the fi-uit, and let it boil for another quarter of an hour. Poiir it with the syrup into a large jar, and let it remain until next day, when the cherries must be put into a sieve to drain, and a pint of white cui-- rant j uice (see Currant Juice) allowed for every four pounds of cherries. The juice and the sjTup must be boiled together fifteen minutes, when the cherries may be put with them and boiled again for four or five minutes. Put the cherries into jars, cover them with the syrup, lay brandy papers on the top, and tie them down closely. It wiU be more economical in small families to put the preserve into one- pound pots, as there is an amount of evapora- tion in larger jars, which makes a considerable difference in the expense. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Bottle. —Have ready some wide-mouthed bottles, such as are gener- ally used for bottling fruit, and ascertain that they are quite dry. Cut the stalks from the cherries—do not pull them out—put the fruit into the bottles, shake them down, and put two table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted loaf sugar at the top of every bottle. Cork them closely, and tie them down; put them into a large pan of cold water, bring it to a boU, let it stand on tho hob for five minutes, then lift the boiler from the fire, and let the bottles remain in it untU the water is cold. The juice of the fruit ought to cover it. The corks must be looked after when the fruit has been scalded, and re- i fitted if necessarj'. When the fruit comes to be used, the juice ought to be strained ofE, and boiled with a little sugar, and, when cold, put into the tarts instead of water. Time, about an hour. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Pickle.—Choose sound, not over-ripe Kentish cherries, wipe them care- fully, and put them into jars, leaving about an inch of their stalks. Boil sufficient French vinegar to cover them, and boil one pound of sugar and a few grains of cayenne with every quart of vinegar. When cold, add a few drops of cochineal, and cover the cherries. Tie them down closely. They AviU be ready for use in three or four weeks. Probable cost of cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Cherries, To Preserve.—Take two pounds of sound, ripe Kentish cherries, weighed after they have been picked and stoned. Put a pound of sifted sugar into the preserving- pan with half a pint of red currant juice, or, if this is not at hand, water, and let it boil for five minutes. Throw in the cherries, which ought not to have been injured in the stoning, and let them boil for ten minutes, stirring them only just enough to keep them from burning, as it is very desirable not to break them. Poui* all together into a bowl, and let it remain until next day, then drain the fruit, boil the syrup with eight ounces more sugai-, and boil the cherries in it again for another ten minutes. Put the preserve in jars, and cover closely, as usual. In the preparation of cherries for pre- serving, it is necessary that the greatest care should be observed. The slightest deviation from the instructions given here will make the cherries unpalatable. Cherries, To Preserve (another way). —Choose sound, ripe cherries (May Dukes or Kentish cherries will be the best for the pur- pose), stone them, and after stoning take half their weight in sugar, and half a pint of water for each pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and water together to make a clear syrup, put in the fruit, and let it boil for eight minutes, being careful not to break the fruit when stirring it. Pour it into a bowl, and leave it for twenty-four hours. Strain off the fruit, and boil the syrup again with the addition of one half the original weight in sugar. Again put in the fruit, and boil for eight minutes more. When the pre- serve is cold turn it into jars, and cover it in the usual way. Cherry Brandy (to be made in July or August).—The Morella cherry is gener- ally used for this purpose, on account of its peculiar acidity. It ripens later than other cherries, and is more expensive. It is seldom, used as a dessert fruit; nevertheless, if allowed to hang until fully ripe, it is very refreshing and agreeable to many palates. The cherries for brandy should be gathered in dry weather, and must be used when fresh. They ought not to be over ripe. Wipe each one with a soft cloth, and cut the stalks, leaving them aboui; half an inch in length. A little more than half fill wide-necked bottles such as are used for bottling fruit. Allow three ounces of pounded sugar with each pound of fruit, which must be placed in with it. FUl the bottles with the best French brandy. Do not make the mistake of supposing that the fruit and sugar will make bad spirit pass for good. Cork the bottles se- curely, and seal over the top. The cherries may be used in a month, but will be better in two. Three or four cloves put in the bottle are by many considered an improvement. Probable cost of Morella cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Cherry Brandy (another way).—Choose sound, fresh Morella cherries, wipe them, and cut off the stalks to within half an inch, prick each cherry with a needle, hsdf fill a wide- necked bottle with them, and to each bottle put a dozen scraped bitter almonds and a quarter of a pound of white sugar candy crushed small. FUl with best French brandy, cork securely, and seal over the top. The brandy wiU be better if kept for a few months. Probable cost of cherries, lOd. to Is. per pound. Cherry Brandy (another way). — Put six pounds of black cherries, six pounds of Morellas, and two pounds of strawberries in a