MIL ( 42i ) MIL pour off the milk, and break the shell with a fuiinmtr. Clear the uut from the outer brown rind, and giute the white part very finely. Put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a quart of new milk to every thi-eo ounces. Simmer very gently, that thajnilk may not bo reduced in quiuitity. Strain, and press the nut as dry as possible. Add the milk from the nut, if quite good, to this, and use it for blanc- mange, custards, or sweets of any kind. Time, thi-eo-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost of nuts, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three ounces of cocoa-nut to a quart of milk. Milk. Keeping in Summer of Cream or.—Milk that has been scalded, and from which the excellent Devonshire cream is pro- duced, wiU keep sweet longer than a pan of raw milk; hence, to scald milk is the best way to preserve it sweet. The cream, when skimmed, with the addition of enough pow- dered white sugar to make it tolerably sweet, may be kept two days; but in large dairy farms, where the cream is plentiful, each day's produce should be turned into butter. A cool dairy, plenty of cold water, but above all an early-riser, one who wiU be up before the sun has risen, will succeed in the hottest weather. Milk Lemonade.—Steep the thin yellow rind of two lemons in theii* own juice for twelve hours. Strain the juice through a muslin to keep back any of the pxilp. and seeds. Sweeten with syrup in the propox-tion of two pounds of good loaf sugar—or powdered sugar of the same quantity may be used—and add a bottle of sherry or made white wine and from two to three quarts of good new milk, heated to the boiling point. It should be strained through the usual jelly-bag imtil clear. When cold this lemonade will be found refreshing and invigorating dming hot weather. Probable cost, 28. Id., exclusive of wine. Milk. Lemonade (another way).—-See Lemonade MUk. Milk Porridge.—Put into an enamelled saucepan half a pint of whole groats, on which pour a pint and a half of cold water. BoU well for two or three hours, adding more water if too thick, and strain through a colander or sieve. This porridge may be kept two or three days, and when wanted boiling milk should be added. Probable cost, without milk, 3d. Milk Porridge (another way).—The fol- lowing is a quicker and easier way of preparing porridge for children's breakfasts, suppers, &c. -Mix a dessert-spoonful of the medium oatmeal to a smooth paste with cold milk. Pour on half a pint of boiling milk and stii* the mixture over the tire till it thickens. Sweeten it and serve hot. MUk Pnnch.—This agreeable summer drink is made in the following manner:—Put into a bottle of rum or brandy the thinly-pared rinds of three Seville oranges and three lemons. Cork tightly for two days. Rub off on two pounds of lump sugar the rinds of six lemons, squeeze the juice from the whole of the fruit over the two pounds of sugar, add three quarts of boihng water, one of boilmg milk, half a tea-spoonful of nutmeg, and mix all thoroughly well together xmtil the sugar is dissolved. Pour in the rum, stir, and strain until clear; bottle closely. It is important in making punch that all the ingredients be perfectly blended together, con- sequently too nmch attention cannot be paid to the mixing. Probable cost 6s. Milk Punch (another way).—See Punch, Milk. Milk Punch, Cambridge {see Cam- bridge Milk Punch). Milk Rice.—A wholesome dish, suitable for children. When milk is scarce, the rice is first boiled tender in water, drained from it, and simmered until quite done in milk, but it is best boiled whoUy in milk. A quarter of a pound of rice will thicken a quart of milk. Simmer gently with cinnamon or lemon-peel, and add, if liked, a small quantity of very finely-shred suet. The sugar should not be put in while simmering, but when about to be served sweeten to taste. Milk rice is very liable to buni, therefore stir often. Time, about an hour to simmer. Pro- bable cost, rice, 3d. per pound. Milk Rolls.—To eight ounces of diy flour mix a little salt, and two ounces or less of butter; add half an ounce of German yeast, and an egg beaten with a small cup of milk, which should be warm, but not hot. When mixed to a fii-m dough, cover it up well in the same pan to rise, in a warm place, and when risen make into rolls and bake quickly. The rolls may be brushed over with egg before they are put on the baking-tin. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six rolls. Milk Sago.—BoU slowly for half an hour a tea-cupful of sago in a, quart of new milk, or, if prefeixed of less consistency, take rather more milk. This makes a most nutritious and agreeable dish for invalids and children, and may be sweetened and flavoured according to taste. It is well to cleanse the sago in hot water before using. Probable cost, about 6d. ii quart. Milk Saloop.—Mix rice powder with cold milk, rub it quite smooth, and boil in more milk. Keep stiiTing, flavour with lemon-peel and sugar. Take it off the tii-c, beat in two eggs one after the other, stirring all the time. 15utter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake until set. Milk saloop may be made without flavouring, if preferred, or it may be simply boiled, mixed with ground rice in a mu«h smaller quantity. Probable cost, 6d. Milk Sauce or Cream Sauce. —Take the yolks of two eggs, remove the specks, then beat them well and add a table-spoonful of powdered white, sugar, and sufficient vanilla, ratafia, lemon-peel, or any other flavouring that may be preferred, to flavour the whole. Pour this into half a pint of cream or milk, set it over the fire, and make it very hot, without letting it boil, or the sauce wiil curdle. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Time to make, ten minutes. Probable cost, with cream, Is. 4d,