PRINCIPLES—BREAKFAST lilSHES. UcoxL Here, a-ain, let the cook be careful to have the dish thoroughly hot, or else the fat from the°bacon will settle and get cold in the dish, and make it look far from teraptin<- Fried bacon is a very good test of a cook for one reason, viz., it tests tlaat elementary principle of cooking—cleanliness. Next time you have a dish of hot fried bacon, observe the fat, and see if it is streaked with black, if so, it shows the cook does not properly clean her frying-pans, and no good cooking can ever proceed from du-ty cooking utensils. Bloaters should always be split open like a haddock, and cooked on a gridiron kept for the purpose. The gridiron should be rubbed with a piece of mutton fat to prevent the bloater from sticking. After the bloater is cooked, rub a little piece of butter over the inside, which makes it look rich and moist, and improves the flavoui-. One great advantage of cooking bloaters this way is, you avoid that dreadful gush of oflFensive steam that issues forth on opening them when they are cooked whole without first being opened. Indeed, the great drawback to bloaters is the unpleasant odour. In poaching eggs, it will be found that they assume a white api^earance when a little drop of vinegar is mixed with the boiling water in which they are poached. •Great care should be taken, however, to drain off the water from the flat strainei -used for taking out the eggs, as they will otherwise taste acid. In frying eggs, be sure to trim them so as to have tlie yolk in the centre, sun-ounded by a neat rim of white. Too much fat in the frying-pan is conducive to increasing the large bubbles, and to sometimes even breaking the yolks of the 'CSffs. Take care also that the fire is not too fierce, as then the under surface of the «gg will get burnt and taste disagreeable. Sausages are always best home-made, for the best of reasons, viz., that you then, ■and only then, know what is in them. Every house should have a small sausage machine, which, in addition to making simply sausages, will make rissoles, force- meats of all kinds, as well as croquettes. Indeed, a small hand sausage machine repays itself quicker than almost any other kind of kitchen utensil. Sausages are best served up on toast, then the fat that rims from them can be poured over them and soaked up and eaten, and not emptied to help to swell that household disgi-ace— "the cook's grease-box. Kidneys should be cooked so as that they retain the red gravy : they are nicest done on the gridiron. After they are taken ofi", a little piece of butter should be placed in the inside of each, and a tiny pinch of chopped parsley dropped on the butter. In many houses it will be found that the staple breakfast dish is cold bacon and boiled eggs. Now, although new-laid eggs are very nice boiled, yet they are often difficult to get, and when bought are, especially in the neighbourhoods of large towns, very expensive. Shop eggs are only eaten boiled by persons whose palates are, to say the least, not very keen. Why not, however, make the eggs you boil and the butter you spread on your bread into a savoury omelet ? Take say three eggs, two ounces of butter, a little jjepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a piece of onion or shallot the size of the top of the first finger, and chop that finely with the parsley, and you have a far mox'e palatable method of serving the eggs. The omelet, being eaten with plain bread, becomes quite as economical, and far nicer. Luncheon is generally a make-up meal, at which it is lawful to serve up half fowls and cut tarts, and is so comprised in the details of that greater meal, dinner, that in fjimpiy observing that what is left from dinner can generally be utilised at luncli, we