MUT ( 44/5 ) very gently until tender. Serve as hot as pos- sible. Tlie relative proportions of wine and gi-avy may be reversed in this recipe, if pre- ferred. The kidneys are very good indeed if stewed in gravy flavoured with wine. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable co&t, exclusive of the wine, Is. Suflacient for two or throe persons. Mutton, Leg of, Boiled.—For boiling, this joint should not hang so long as for roast- ing. TVo or thi-ee days will be enough if the colour is considered of importance. This and careful skimming will prevent the necessity for a floured cloth, which some inexperienced cooks resortto. Cut off the shank-boue, and if neces- sary wipe the joint with a damp cloth. Put it in- to a large oval stewpan with as much boiling water as will cover it. When restored to its boiling state, skim the surface clean, and draw the stewpan to the side of the fire to allow the contents to simmer until done. Allow for a leg of mutton of nine or ten pounds' weight, two and a half hours from the time it boils. Boil very young turnips for a garnish ; these will take twenty minutes, but allow an hour for older ones, which are to be mashed. Place the turnips, which should be of equal size, round the dish, and send the mashed ones to table separately. Melted butter, with capers added, should accompany the dish. The liquor from the boiling may be converted into good soup at a trifling expense. Time, about twenty minutes to eacn pound. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for nine or ten persons, Mutton, Leg of. Boned and Stuffed. —Having removed the bone from a leg of mut- ton (a smaU one of five or six pounds), fill the space from which it was taken with a force- meat composed of the following ingredients worked together into a firm smooth paste :— Shred finely four ounces of suet and two of ham ; mix. these with six ounces of broad-crumbs, and flavour with a tea-spoonful of minced thjTne, marjoram, and basil, the same of parsley, and a couple of shallots; add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with a couple of eggs, well beaten first. Keep the forcemeat from falling out into the dripping-pan during the process of cooking by sewing up the opening, and roast be- fore a brisk fire; give the mutton twenty minutes to the pound. Or if a more savoury dish be pre- ferred, pound the solid parts of a couple of good red herrings to a paste. Season highly with pepper, and by detaching the skin from the thir-k(!st part of the joint, force the paste under and secure well. Those persons who have eaten a leg of mutton thus prepared pronounce it excel- lent. The mutton thus stuffed need not be boned. Trim off the fat from the mutton before putting it to the fire. Baste with good dripping, J<"or sauce, add to the gravy of the meat a small glass ful of sherry, an anchovy pounded, and pepper and salt to taste; boU for a few minutes; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and serve in a tureen with half the jmce of a lemon squeezed into it. Probable cost. Is. per pound. SuflBcient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of, Braised. — This jciiiit might bu introduced to our readers under a variety of names; such as Leg of Mutton a la Napolitaine, a la Proven(,'ale, k la Bretonne, a la Soubiso, and a separate recipe given for each, but as it is generally called after some sauce or garnish, we give a recipe for the braising alone :—Procm-e a small leg of mutton, cut off the knuckle end, and trim away un- necessary fat. Lard it with nan-ow strips of bacon which have been well seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, and lay in the mutton, with more slices on the top. Add foui- carrots, two turnips, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with two cloves, a stick of celery, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, with enough weak stock to cover. Stew gently for three hours, then reduce the stock by rapid boiling, and brown the meat in the oven, using a little of the stock with what flows from the meat to baste, and when glazed of a light colour serve with the sauce poured over it. A leg of mutton braised as above may be garnished -with glazed carrots and onions, or a la Napolitaine, with boiled macaroni in the dish, and Neapolitan sauce over and around the macaroni, or a la Proven9ale, with the sauce of the same name, and a garnish of mushrooms glazed, &c. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of, Braised (another way). — Small lean mutton is particularly adapted to this mode of cooking. It may be larded and braised, or done without the larding. Put it into a braising-pan with slices of bacon over and under, so that the bottom of the pan shall be well lined. Between the mutton and bacon strew cut carrots, onions, sweet herbs, parsley, and a bay-leaf, also a bit of garlic, if liked, and pepper and salt. Moisten with half a pint or more of good meat gravy or broth, and allow a leg of six or seven poimds to stew nearlj^ fovir hours. If stewed very gently the liquor will not have lost much in quantity. When the meat is done enough, strain, reduce the gravy by quick boiling, and serve in a tureen. Glaze the mutton, and send it to table garnished vrith onions, which should also be glazed, and white haricot beans boiled in good veal broth under the joint. A dozen peppercorns and four cloves, with a stick of celery, may be added to the braising-pan if a higher flavour is liked. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Mutton, Leg of. Oysters with (see Oysters with Leg of Mutton). Mutton, Leg of, To Marinade.—Get the skin taken off the leg, and with three or four large juicy onions, which should be halved, rub until the mutton is well impregnated with their juice. Afterwards lay it into a marinade of the following ingredients :—Infuse, in equal quantities of vinegar and water (a quart in all), four cloves of garlic, a dozen or more of bruised peppercorns, and four cloves, a bunch of herbs, and one of parsley, with a dessert-spoonful of salt. The dish should be from five to six inches in depth, that the marinade may suiTound the meat well. Keep it in this twenty-four hours, then again rub it with four more fresh onions, and return it, this time on the other side, to