( 455 ) NEC NEC ingredients, and stir frequently till the water id cold, then adtl two lemons sliced, three pints of proof spirit—either brandy or rum. Macerate in a closed vessel for sL\ or seven days, giving the vessel a shake now and then, then strain with pressure. Set the strained liqueur in a cool place for a week; when clear, decant and tottle oif. Nectar, May {see May Nectar). Nectar, Vauxhall, To Imitate {see Vauxhall Nectar). Nectarine Pudding. — Stew a dozen nectarines, not over-ripe, with a little sugar until they are quite tender. Beat them well with a fork, remove the skin and the kernels, let them get cold, then mix with them the well- "beaten yolks of four and the wliites of two ■eggs, a quarter of a pint of finely-grated bread- crumbs which have been soaked in as much •cream as they will absorb, and add a little more :sugar if required. Line a dish with good puff- paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven; strew sifted sugar over the top Taefore serving. Time, one hour to bake. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufiicient for six persons. Nectarines and Peaches. — These fruits are both the produce of the same species of plant, the skin of the first being smooth, that of the second downy. Both contain a considerable quantity of sugar, but cannot boast of possessing great nutritive proper- ties. The seeds of the nectarine are employed for making noyeau and flavouring brandy. NECTARINE AND PEACH. Peaches and nectarines are dessert fruits of a very high order. They make delicious pre- serves, and in America and in some parts of France are used in the manufacture of a sort of brandy. The leaves contain prussic acid, and consequently when steeped in gin or whisky impart a flavour resembling that of noyeau. According to Mr. Loudon, the fol- lowing are the characteristics of a good peach or nectarine:—"A good peach or nectarine possesses these qualities: the flesh is firm; the skin is thin, of a deep or bright red colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green next the wall; the pulp is of a yellowish colour, full of high-flavoui-ed juice; the fleshy part thick, and the stone small." The peach was introduced into this country about the middle of the six- teenth century. It is always reared against walls or imdOT glass. Both peaches. and nectarines are divided into the "free-stone" or "molting" peaches, in which the flesh or pulp separates readily from the stone; and the '' cling-stone varieties," in which the flesh clings or adheres to the stone. The first named are usually the best flavoured. Nectarines, Candied.—Gather the nec- tarines when perfectly sound and not over- ripe. "Weigh them carefully, rub them with a soft cloth, split them in halves, and take out the stones ; boil half their weight of sugar ^vith a quarter of a pint of water to each pound, and when quite clear put in the nectarines, and let them boil gently until they are clear, but unbroken; then lift them out carefully, and put them on an inverted sieve to drain. Next day boil the syrup until it is quite thick, put in the fruit, and boil it gently for five minutes, and on taking out the nectarines again drain them; repeat this process twice. After the nec- tarines are taken out the last time spread them on dishes, place them in a moderate oven, sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and turn them about until they are dry. Nectarines. Pickled.—Gather the nec- tarines when fully grown, but not quite ripe. Look them over carefully, remove any that are at all blemished, and put the rest into salt and water sufficiently strong to float an egg; lay a thin board over the fruit to keep it well under water, and leave it for two or three days. At the end of that time drain it well, dry it with a soft cloth, put it into pickling jars, and cover entirely with good white wine vinegar. Put half a blade of mace, six cloves, a piece of whole ginger, and a quarter of a pint of mustard seed with each quart of vinegar. Tie down the jars securely, and store in a cool dry place. The pickle wUl be ready for use in two months. Keep the nectarines well covered with vinegar. Nectarines, Preserved. — Gather the nectarines when they are fully grown, but not over-ripe. Split them in halves, and remove the stones; put the weight of the fruit into a preserving pan vpith a quarter of a pint of water to every pound of sugar; boil it to a clear syrup, then put in the fruit, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour the preserve carefully into a bowl, breaking it as little as possible, and let it remain until the next day, when it must be boiled again for ten minutes. Lift the fruit out carefully with a spoon, put it into jars, boil the sjTTup fast by itself for ten minutes, and pour it over the fruit; break the stones and blanch the kernels, put a portion in each jar, and tie do\vn securely. Store in a cool dxy place. Nectarines, Preserved (another way). —Gather the noctai-ines when fully grown, but not over-ripe. Wipe thorn -with a soft cloth, and put them into a pan of boiling water. Place them near the fire, but not upon it, as it