BBA BBA it into cold water, and thus causing the fat to settle on the top). Boil it quickly until very thick, and serve it in the dish vdth. the meat, or boU it longer until it is thick enough to adhere to it. As braisieres are not very usual in ordinary kitchens, we may say that almost as good an effect is produced, if the meat is bound in slices of fat bacon, and gently stewed in rich gravy. Bran Yeast.—A good serviceable yeast can be made from a pint of bran boHed in two quarts of water for ten minutes, with a handful of good hops. Strain the liquor, and when lukewarm, add three or four table-spoonfuls of beer yeast, and two of brown sugar or treacle; put it into a jar or small wooden cask, and place it before the fire to ferment; when well worked it may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. Brandy. Lemon.—Take the thin or yellow rinds only oi two small lemons, and cover them with half a pint of the best French brandy; let them stand in a closed-up bottle for a fortnight, then strain off the spii-it and keep it corked closely for use. A syrup of two ounces of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water may be added if a sweet brandy lemon is desired. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Brandy Mince for Pies.—Take one pound each of fresh beef suet, sugar, currants, and apples; wash, pick, and dry the currants, and mince the suet and apples with a quarter of a pound of citron, and the same of orange-peel, the juice of one lemon and the grated peel of two. When all these ingredients are well mixed, throw over them, by degrees, a glass of brandy. Brandy, Raspberry.—Take four pounds of raspberries and steep them in three quarts of brandy for one month; add syrup to taste, and flavour with cinnamon and clove mixture. Some persons prefer it without any flavouring ingredients, but it is always better to have a little added. Brawn.—Prepare a hog's head, by cutting off the cars, taking out the brains, and cleaning generally ; rub ia plenty of salt, and let it di-ain a whole day and night. Rub in two ounces of .saltpetre and the same quantity of salt, and let it stand for three days. Next, put the head and .salt iuto a pan and cover it with water for two days. Now, wash it well from the salt, and boil till the bones can be easily removed. Ex- ' tract these and take off the skin of the head and tongue carefully. Chop up the meat into bits, but do not mince it, and season with pepper, salt, and shallot to taste. Place the skin of one-half of the head into a pan, closely fitting it, and press into it the chopped head and tongue. When this is done, take the other skin and lay it cleverly in place, or put the other skin in the pan and proceed as. before, and turn out when cold. Should the head be too fat, add some lean pork. For a sauce, boil a pint of vinegar with a quart of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and two ounces of salt, and pour over the brawn when the liquor is cold. The hair should be carefully removed from the ears, and they must be boiled till tender. then divided into long narrow pieces and mixed with the meat. Time to boil, from two to three hours. Probable cost for a pig's head, 6d. per pound. Brawn (another way).—Take three pigsj heads, and two cheeks of salted pork, two sheeps' tongues, a piece or the whole of a bidlock's tongue. Boil all together until the meat will separate from the bones. Put the meat on a paste- board, cut it into small bits, and while cutting throw the following spices, well pounded, over it:—one ounce and a half of white pepper, three-quarters of an ounce of allspice, eight cloves, and two blades of mace. The biillock's tongue to be skinned, sliced, and distributed in thin layers between the meat in the mould. Boil a cow-heel .in one pint of water till re- duced to half, throw this over and cover, putting a heavy weight on the top. Let it stay all night, and the next morning it wiU be firm in the mould. Brawn (another way).—Take the fat, ears, and tongue, of a pig's head, and any pieces which may have been cut off in trimming, and soak in salt and water all night. Cleanse, and boU them for three hours, with only enough water to keep them from burning, and the meat from getting dry. The bones should then be taken out, the ears cut into strips, and the tongue into slices. Put the bones into the saucepan with the liquor, a large onion, two blades of mace, six allspice, twenty-five pepper- corns, two bay leaves, and a little thyme. Boil for half-an-hour, strain the liquor, put it with the meat, boil once more, and pour into a brawn mould. When required the brawn may be separated from the moulds by dipping them into hot water, or by placing a hot towel around them for a few minutes. Brawn, Mock.—Remove the bladebone from the shoulder of a large hog or boar, and boil the meat gently two hours or more, according to size. When cold rub in black pepper, salt, cayenne, allspice, shallot, and thyme to taste. Let it remain for twenty-four hours in this seasoning. Next day prepare a forcemeat of veal, ham, beef, suet, minced parsley, thjTne, onion, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, and bind it with beaten egg, and press it into the space left by the bladebone. Place it in a pan, brown side downwards, taking care, how - ever, that it does not stick to the bottom, which may be prevented by placing a few twigs cross- ways in the pan. Then poiir over the shoul- der a quart of mild ale, and- bake it six or seven, hours in an oven. When nearly done, take it out and clear off the fat; add a bottle of wine and the juice of a large lemon; return it to the oven, and when it is tender enough to be easily pierced with a wooden skewer or a strong straw, it is sufiiciently done, and should be served hot. Probable cost of shoulder, 8d. or 9d. per pound. Brawn Sauce.—IMix nicely together two tea-spoonfuls of moist sugar, one of mustard, and one of the best Lucca oil. When quite smooth, add more vinegar and oU in equal proportions, though some prefer more of the one than of the other. Care must be taken