O-EN GEir ( 247 ) into a light dough, adding a well-beaten egg, mixed with a little lukewai-m milk. A little sugar, a few curmuts, and some chopped candied lemon may be added. Cover the bowl which contains the dough with a cloth, and put it by the side of the tire to rise. In about half an horn- make it up into rolls; brush these over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven for twenty minutes or more. Probable cost. Id. each. AUow one or two for each person. Geneva Buns (another way).—Rub three ounces of butter into two pounds of Hour, and set the sponge with a table-spoonful of yeast, mixed with a pint of new milk; add a little salt, and some safe'on water, if liked. Let it rise one hour. Beat two eggs, and stir in a quarter of a pint of hot milk; then knead up the dough with the eggs when milk-warm. Let the dough stay before the fire half an hour longer, then make small rolls, brush them with yolk of egg, and bake them from twenty to thii-ty minutes. If a rich bun is desired, add six ounces of Bugar, three ounces of butter, half a pound of currants, the grated rind of a lemon, and two oimces of candied orange-peel. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for eighteen buns. Geneva Plidding (sometimescalled George Pudding).—^Put half a cupful of best Carolina rice into a saucepan with a pint of new milk, a piece of butter the size of a nut, four table- Bpoonfuls of sugar, and three cloves. Simmer gently tiU the milk is absorbed, and the rice quite tender. Take out the cloves, beat the rice thoroughly, and add a dozen large apples, boiled till reduced to a pulp. "When cold, mix with the rice and apples four well-beaten eggs, and a glass of sheiTy. Pour the mixtm-e into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven till lightly browned. Serve with wine sauce. Time, three-quai-ters of an hour- to bake. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Geneva Wafers (a pretty dish for a juvenile party). Rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a ci'eam, and mix with it, very smoothly, a quarter of a pound of flour, and three eggs, thoroughly whisked. Add three drops of the essence of vanilla, and three table- apoonfuls of pounded sugar. Beat -with a wooden spoon until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then drop a dessert-spoonful at a time on a well-buttered baking-sheet, and put the wafers in a moderate oven. When suf- ficiently baked, take them out of the oven, twist them very carefully, pr they will break, to the shape of small comucopiae, and put them in the oven a minute or two longer to get crisp. Half fill them with jam, and put a little whipped cream on the jam. The cream put in half of them might be slightly coloured with cochineal. Time, a quarter of an hour, or less, to bake. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Genevese Sauce (for Salmon, Trout, &c).—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a stewpan. Let it melt, then add three ounces of lean ham, cut into small pieces, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, a scraped carrot, a bay leaf, a blade of uiace, and a small onion, stuck with three cloves. Stir the ingredients quickly over the fire, then mix in, very smoothly, one table-spoonful of flour. Beat the paste with a wooden spoon, and pour in by degrees one pint of good stock. Let all stew gently for an hour. Strain, and return the sauce to the pan, thickening it with a little flour and butter, and adding a large wine-glassful of white wine, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-j uice. Season with salt and cayenne. Let the sauce boil after the thickening is added, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Suffi- cient for thi-ee or four pounds of fish. Genevese Sauce (another way).—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan. Let it melt, then add a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, half a dozen mushi-ooms, a scraped carrot, a large onion, sliced, thi-ee or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and a blade of mace. Simmer very gently over the fire until the onion is soft, then pour over the mixture a pint and a half of stock. Stew for an hour or more. Strain, and return the sauce to the pan, thicken with a little flour and butter, add a glass of sherry, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a little salt and cayenne. Let it boil once, and serve as hot as possible. Time, nearly two hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient for five pounds of fish. Genoa Cake.—Mix a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon, orange, and citron together—all being finely minced— as much powdered cinnamon as will stand on a thi-eepenny piece, six table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half a pound of flour, and the finely-chopped rind of a fresh lemon. Beat these ingi-edients for several minutes, with half a pound of clarified butter, four weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixtiu-e in a well-buttered shallow tin, and bake about three-quarters of an houi-. llix the white of an egg with a table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, and a tea-spoonful of sheny. Brush the top of the cake with this, and strew some finely-chopped blanched almonds on the surface. Put it in the oven a few minutes longer, to brown the ahnonds slightly. Probable cost. Is. lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufficient for a tin two and a half inches deep, and four inches square. Genoa Sauce for Fish. — Pound smoothly in a mortar half a clove of garlic, three dessert-spoonfuls of capers, a dessert- spoonful of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of raw umstard, and six boned anchovies. ^Vhen thoroughly mixed, add four table-spoonfuls of sherry, a small tumblerftil of cold water, and three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Boil aU together in a saucepan, and mis in half a pint of good melted butter. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint of sauce. Genoese Cake—Melt half a pound of butter by letting it stand near the fire. Mix thoroughly half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, and the finelv-minced rmd of a Innon. Make Ihem into a pkste vnth a wme-giaaalul of brandy, foui- eggs, well