BLA BLA «hako it often for tho first month or so. It will 1)6 lit for uso in uhont six weeks, and hUouUI 1)o ehmr when poured off. The curnints whould bo s^iitliered iil'tcr two succoHsivo dry days, and ihoy ouj^-lit to bo tlioroughly, but not over riiMJ. Probable cost of eurrtints, about 8d. per quart. Black Currant Jam.—Tho fruit should be jjfathered on a fine day, and should bo rii)e and well froi^d from tho stiilks and tops. Put tlmH3 quarters of a pound of aw^nv to one jjound of fruit. I'lace sugar and fruit in a profiorviuf;- pan, and -lUow it to stand near or by the side of tho tire until tlio sugar has dissolved, th(>n stir it, and bring it to tlio boil. It must be well skimmed, aiid will require greater attention on this head if brown sugar be used instead of loaf. Simmer till it will atifEon, and put into pota for uso. Probable cost, 8d. per or^ary jam pot. {See also Curraat Jam, Black.) Black Currant Jelly.—To every pint •of j uico obtained, after pressing and straining, from well-riponcd fruit, allow one pound of loaf sugar. When the juice has come to the boil, skim well and add the sugar; stir the jelly steadily till all the sugar has disappeared, and boil, not simmei\ for about eight or nine saiinutes. If not thick enough, which may be ascertained by dropping some on a cold plate, ioil a little longer. "When cold, put into pots for use, and fasten down -with paper made to adhere to the pots with white of egg. Pro- vable cost, from 8d. to lOd. per half-pound pot. (See also Currant Jelly, Black.) Black Currant Lozenges.—Mix two ounces of brown sugar with half a pint of black currant juice.. Put the liquid into an enamelled saucepan, add a table-spoonful of dissolved isinglass, and let it simmer gently for three- quiirters of an hour. Pour it over small plates in layers about the eighth of an inch in thick- ness, and let those plates be kept in a screen, a cool oven, or any warm place imtil the mix- ture is dry and hard, then take it off, keep it in a tin box with a sheet of paper between each layer, and stamp it into shapes as required. These lozenges arc very palatable and excellent for coughs, colds, and sore throats. Probable <;ost, 4d. per ounce. Black Currant Pudding.—Butter a basin and line it with pudding paste. To a pint and a half of fruit mix six ounces of «ugar. The currants should be dry or they will make too much juice. Mix the sugar well up ■with the fruit before it is put into the basin; boil one hour and a half. Or a pudding may bo baked in this way :—Stew for about quarter of an hour, in as much milk as will •cover it, a tea-cupful of rice made sweet with two ounces of sugar. Take care it does not bum, and when done and nearlj'' cool, stir in an ounce of butter and three well-beaten eggs with three table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay some currants in a pie-dish, add sugar (they require a, good deal), and throw the mixture over thorn. Bake at once for half an hour; one hoTir to cook the fruit will bo sulRcient. May be used hot or cold. Probable cost, Is. 3d. SuScicnt for five or six persons. Black Currant Preserve. — Dry thorcjuglily, cut oif the licads and stalks and put tlio black currants into a preserving-pan with Bonio red currant juice, lutlf a pint to 8 pound of tho black curmnts, and a ixjurid and a lialf of good sifted loaf sugar. Make it boil up, remove tlio scum, carefully scraping olf th<! fruit from tho sides of the pan. Shake it but do not mash the cunants. Allow it to boil from ten to fifteen minutes. Put into jars, and when cool cover closely. It is fit for tarts or excellent with cream. Probable cost, Cd, to 8d. per half pound pot. Black Ciirrant Tart.—Put a pint and a half of black currants and three ounces of .brown sugar into a tart-dish, lay a deep saucer in tho bottom to hold the juice, or it wiU run over and spoil the appearance of the tart ; put a neat edging of paste round the dish, and aliso cover it over tho top. Ornament according to taste, and bake in a brisk oven. When sent to table, powdered white sugar should be sprinkled thicldy over the top. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Black Currant Wine. — Put equal quantities of currant juice and water into a cask with three pounds and a half of sugar to two gallons of the mixture, and place it in a warm place. ^Vhen it has fermented, take off the refuse ; keep the cask fiUed up with juice, and add a quart of brandy to everj' six gallons directly the fermentation ceases. The cask must then be closed up for eight or nine months, when it may be bottled off; but it will not be fit for use until it has been at least twelve months in bottle. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. per gallon. Black Lozenges.—Take half a pound of gum tragacanth in powder ; add four oimces of powdered loaf sugar and five ounces of extract of liquorice. Make into a smooth paste with water, roll out thin, cut into diamond-shaped lozenges, and dry in a cool place. Black Pudding.—Well cleanse and steep pigs' entrails in cold water, irntU they are requu'cd. To one pint of fresh-drawn pigs' blood, take three pints of onions; chop them very fine, and cook them till they are nearly or three-quarters done, in a saucepan, with the least drop of water at the bottom, stirring them all the whUe, to prevent them brown- ing. Take two pounds of fresh pork, with- out bone, fat and lean in equal proportions; chop it up fine. Mix well together the m.inced pork, the onions, and the pigs' blood, seasoning with salt, pepper, and allspice, or mixed spices ground together. Tie one end of a sausage-skin, and, by means of a funnel or sausage-stufler, fill it at the other with the mixed ingredients. Fasten the upper end ol the pudding, coil it into the desired shape, or tie it into short lengths, and throw it into boiling water, which must be kept hoiUng for twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to the thicloioss of" the pudding. "Tiike it out, and set it aside to cool; keep in cold water until it is wanted for use. So pre- pared, it will keep good two or three daj-s in