cue ( 167 ) cue possible, strewing a little flour over it two or three times to prevent its sticking together. Mix it with the flour, and work it into a firm paste with a little cold water. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Cucumbers.—This delicious fruit is in season from April to September. Though it may be served in various ways, it is never so good as when eaten raw. Many persons object to it on accoimt of its being so indigestible, and certainly this is the case; but we believe it would be found to be less so if the rind were eaten with the cucimiber. If the stalk end be kept standing in cold water, and the water be changed every day, cucumbers will keep hard for a week or two. Cucumber Ketchup. — Cucumber ketchup is useful for flavommg sauces which are to be served with rather tasteless meats, such as rabbits, veal, sweetbreads, calf's brains, &c. It is made by paring and mashing cucumbers, sprinkling salt over them, and leaving them for some hours to draw out the juice, Avhich is then strained, and boiled with a liberal allowance of seasoning. The ketchup must be kept in bottles and closely corked. Time, twenty-four hours to extract the juice. Sufficient, two dessert-spoonfuls of ketchup for half a pint of sauce. Probable cost of cucumbers, when plentiful, 6d. each. Cucumber Mangoes. — Choose large, green cucumbers, not very ripe, cut a long narrow strip out of the sides, and scoop out the seeds with a tea-spoon. Pound a few of these with a little scraped horse-radish, finely-shred garlic, mustard-seed, and white pepper; stufE the hollows out of which the seeds came as full as they will hold, replace the strips, and bind them m their places with a Little thread. Boil as much vinegar as will cover them, and pour it on them while hot; repeat this for three days. The last time boil the vinegar with half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, two ounces of pepper, two ounces of mustard-seed, a stick of horse-radish, and one clove of garlic to every half gallon of vinegar. Put the cucumbers into jars, pour the boiling liquid over them, tie the jars closely down, and set them aside for use. Time, four days. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each when in fuU season. Cucumber Sauce.—Take three young cucumbers, slice them rather thickly, and fry them in a little butter till they are lightly bro\vned. Dredge them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and simmer them till tender in as much good brown gravy as wUl cover them. AVhite sauce or melted butter may be substituted for the gravy if these are more suitable for the dish with which the cucumber sauce is to be served. Time, about a quarter of an hour to simmer the cucumbers. Probable cost, small cucumbers, 4d. each. Sufficient, three young cucumbers for one pint of sauce. Cucumber Slice.—This machine is used for cutting cucumbers into very thin slices. In appearance it somewhat resembles the Scotch hands which are used for shaping butter, with a sharp steel blade running down the middle of the hand. Before using it the cucumber should be pared, then held in an upright position, and worked briskly and rather sharply backwards and forwards on the knife, so that each move- ment of the hand will take off a slice of cucumber. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Cucumber Soup.—Cut the cucumbers into slices, strew a little salt over them, and place them between two plates to drain off the juice. Put them into a saucepan, and cover them with some good white stock. Simmer them gently for forty minutes, then add as much more stock as may be required, and a little sorrel. Season with salt and cayenne, and thicken the soup with ground rice or arrowroot. "When it boils, draw it from the fire for a minute or two, and add a pint of milk mixed with the yolks of two eggs. The soup must not, of course, boil after the eggs are added. Time, about one hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Allow one large cucumber for three pints of soup, including half a pint of milk. Cucumber, Stuffed.—Peel a large cucumber. Remove a nari'ow piece from the side, and scoop out the seeds with a tea-spoon. Fill the cavity with nicely-flavoured forcemeat, replace the piece, and bind it round with strong white thread. Line the bottom of a saucepan with slices of meat and bacon, put the cucumber upon it, and then two or three more slices. Cover the whole with nicely-flavoured stock, and if more vegetables are desired, two or three sliced carrots, turnips, and onions may be added. Season with salt and pepper, and simmer gently, until cucumber, meat, and veget- ables are sufficiently cooked. If the cucumber is tender before the rest, it should be taken out, and kept hot. Thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour, and pom- it over the cucumber. Time, about one hour. Probable cost of cucum- ber, 6d. or Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cucumber Vinegar.—Wipe as many cucumbers as you may intend to use, slice them, without paring them, into a wide-mouthed bottle, and put with them two or three shallots, if the flavour is Hked. Pour over them as much vinegar as will cover them, and add a clove of garlic, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonftil of salt for every quart of vinegar. Let them infuse for eleven or twelve days, then strain the vinegar into small bottles, and cork these tightly. Cucumber vinegar is very good to flavour salads, hashes, &c., or to eat with cold meat. The young leaves of bumet when soaked in vinegar give just the same flavour as cucumber. Probable cost of cu- cumbers, 6d. each when in full season. As much vinegar should be poured over as will just cover the slices. Cucumber White Sauce.—Peel a large cucumber, cut it into small pieces, and take out the pips. Simmer the pieces gently in a little salt and water until quite tender, then drain them, and stew them for a few minutes longer in good white sauce, in which they must be served. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. for half a pint. Sufficient for a small dish. Cucumbers (a I'Espagnole). — Cut the cucumbers into pieces about two inches long