( 446 ) MUT MUT the marinado for tho aamo spaco of timo. llarifjf to drain all thu uoxt day, thun wipe dry, and ruast tlu) lofjf in a buttorod papor, and aorvo with curi-iint jolly. Timo, three houi-a to roast. Mutton, Leg of, To Roast.—Get a log of about oifj;ht pounds, and whicli has hung at loast a wuok, woathor allowing. During hot summer wi-ather this joint gots quickly taintod. Rul) it lightly with salt, and put it at once, bot'oro a brisk sharp firo. Placo it close to tho liro for the first Hvo minutes, then draw it farther back, and lot it roast more slowly until done. Baste continually with a little good dripping until that from tho joint begins to How. When within twenty minutes of being done, dredge it with flour, and baste with butter or dripping; and when the froth rises serve on a hot dish. Make a gravy, throw off the fat, when any gravj', if the dripping-pan has been floured, will adhere to it. Add a little extract of meat to this, and a little boiling water, pepper, and salt. Pour the gravy round the meat, not over it. Time, fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Mutton, Leg of, with Forcemeat.— This savoury dish is very common in Australia. A leg of mutton is carefully boned so as not to injure the skin, the fat is pared off, and about a pound of the mutton, with an equal quantity of bacon, minced together. A seasoning of garlic, onions, and pickles is then given to it, and the mince is ready; or, it is sometimes prepared simply seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, if to be eaten by ladies or {hildren. The hollow made by cutting out the 6one, &c., is filled with the mince, and the skin secured over the opening to the underside. Meanwhile, a gravy is made by boiling the bone and trimmings with as much veal broth or water as will be necessary to stew the leg; vegetables are added, an onion and a carrot sliced, a small bunch of parsley, with a season- ing of pepper and salt. Lay slices of bacon over the top of the leg, and stew gently, with the lid of the pan closed, for three hours and a half or more. When done, strain the gravy, boil it rapidly, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, or thicken the gravy simply with browned flour and serve it with the meat. French beans, boiled in the usual manner, drained, and then warmed up in some of the gravy, may be laid under and around the leg of mutton. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Mutton, Leg of, with Garlic—The peculiar pungent taste of garUc is very little liked by the English, although we cannot but acknowledge that it adds to the variety of dishes that may at times prove acceptable. The following treatment will considerably soften the garlic's acridness and render it less objectionable, while at the same time re- taining its characteristic flavour. Stuff imder the skin of a leg of mutton near the shank three or four cloves of garlic that may have been boiled or not, according to taste, tho water having been changed repeatedly to mellow their flavour. Koast the leg in the usual way. Divido tho cloves from tho bulbs of as many garlics as will ]jo suflicient for the saucp, peel, and put them into water, boil for a few minutes, when throw tlie water off and replace it by more boil- ing water. Do this after several successive inter- vals of five minutes, always slightly salting the water. When the garlic luis become sufficiently tender to pulp, diuin off" the water by pressing the bulbs, and add good gravy made from the roasting of the meat. When hot, serve the meat on the garlic. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound; to boil garlic, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of nmtton. Is. per pound. Mutton, Leg of, with Potatoes.— This homely mode of cooking a leg of mutton is not to be set aside because of its simplicity. If baked carefully, and cooked to the right point as it ought to be, a feat not always accomplished when baked at the common oven, it will be found excellent, particularly the potatoes, as they will have absorbed all the dripping of the joint, and, where economy in the use of meat as a family dinner is concerned, the potatoes will satisfy the appetite, especially of children, with- out encroaching largely on the j oint. Everybody will allow that the odour of the working man's Simday dinner is most tempting to the appe- tite; but, barring the question of fire, we do not think it the most economical of dishes. Time, a quarter of an hour to the poimd. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, a leg of mutton of moderate size for eight or more persons. Mutton, Loin of, Cooked like Veni- son.—A loin of mutton may be made to eat like venison by boiling down a woodcock or snipe which has hung so long to be thought too high for roasting, and using the gra\y to moisten the mutton stew. The mutton should have been well kept. Take off the skin and some of the fat, bone, and put it into a stewpan with the gravy, and the same quantity of port wine, an onion, a few peppercorns, half a tea-spoon- ful of minced herbs, and a sprig of parsley. Stew very gently, and skim well; this must be done often and as long as any greasy particles remain on the surface. Serve veiy hot with currant jelly. Time, about three hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Mutton, Loin of, Roasted.—Follow the directions given for roast leg in every particular {see Mutton, Leg of. To Roast), but trim off all unnecessary fat, which may be used for a common suet crust. If the fat be not turned to account there is no more expensive joint than a loin of mutton. Cover the fat with paper imtil \s'ithin a quarter of an hour of its being done, then remove, baste, and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per poimd. Sufficient, six pounds for five or more persons. Mutton, Loin of. Rolled.—Let the joint liang,then ask the butcher to bone it and re- move unnecessary fat; lay it out flat, and season highly with allspice, cloves, mace, and pepper, reduced to powder. Next day cover the side on which the seasoning has been laid with a forcemeat iia for veal, and roll the loin into a