( 20o ) END EVE and stew until tender in good gravy, just enough to cover thorn. Add veloute sauce, or thicken with butter rolled in flour. Serve quite hot. Any highly-seasoned sauce would spoil the flavour of this vegetable. A little Bait and sugar to the gravy is all that is necessary. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Suflicient for three or four persons. Endive, with Winter Salad..—An ornamental and wholesome dish of salad may be made in winter principally by the aid of this plant. Only a little cress, celery, and beetroot will be necessary to form a striking contrast to the crisp, blanched leaves of the endive, which may be arranged(«i bouquet)inihe centre, or interspersed with the other materials through the bowl. Endive may be had good from November till March. English Stew.—Stew for two hours three pounds of rump of beef, cut into small pieces and free from fat, in a quart of good stock or gravy. Season with a little cayenne and salt; then add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, the grated rind of one large lemon, a table-spoonful of rice-flour, evenly mixed with three table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and a tea- spoonful of soy. Stew for a quarter of an hour, when the dish will be ready to serve. This dish may be improved by a glass or two of port or white wine, or with any well-flavoured store sauce. Itmav be also garnished with sippets of fried bread, forcemeat balls, or young cucum- bers. A good cook will know how to vary English stew in twenty different ways, by introducing mushrooms, green peas, rice, half- boiled new potatoes, spiing carrots, or curry- powder. Sufficient for five or six persons. Epicurean Sauce-—This is a good sauce for fish, added to melted butter or any kind of gravy, and is made by mixing with half a pint of walnut ketchup an equal quantity of chili vinegar, and adding a pint and a half of mush- room ketchup, and three table-spoonfuls of Indian soy. Shake the ingredients well to- gether, and bottle for use. Probable cost, 2s. Erechtheum Pudding.—Put one pint of fresh milk into a basin, and add to it two table-spoonfuls of fine sugar, a pinch of salt, and half a dozen drops of essence of ratafia. Beat six new-laid eggs two or three minutes, then mix them with the milk in the basin. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and place this in a stewpan containing boiling water. Let the water boil gently, and do not let it reach higher than half up the mould. As soon as the pudding is set and firm in the centre it is done. Serve, turned out of the mould, with a sauce made as follows:—Put two eggs, a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, and two drops of ratafia in a stewpan; warm »lightly—\es,s than half a minute will do this; then whisk to a firm froth, and pour it over the pudding. SuflJcient for two or three persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. . Erfurt, or German Puddings.—This 18 a favourite sweet dish in Germany, and only requires a little care to be successfully made. Prepare as follows:—Make a batter of one pound of flour, three full dessert-spoon- fula of yeast, and a third of a pint of warm milk. Set it to rise before the fire, but not too near, or it will be heavy. After it has well risen, knead it into a dough, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter, two ounces of finely- sifted sugar, five eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little more warm milk. These ingredients should be first mixed with the milk, and then worked into the dough, and all should be well beaten till quite smooth. Set the mixture once more near the fire to rise, and when fit, make it into little round balls; sprinkle each ball with powdered sugar, and put them into a stewpan, with a large piece of butter, and enough milk to cover them. "When the milk gets hot the balls will swell, so plenty of space must be given, and on no account should they touch each other. When about twice their original size, put them into an oven to brown — a few minutes will be sufficient. They may be sent to table with jam as a garnish, or served on a napkin, and with a tureen of hot custard flavoured with rum as an accom- paniment. Time, three-quarters of an hour for the sponge to rise; to stew, fifteen minutes; and to bake, five to ten. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Escaveeke Sauce.—Pound three cloves of garlic in a mortar with half a dozen shallots, two dessert-spoonfuls of coriander-seed, a little salt, a small salt-spoon of pounded ginger, and the same of cayenne. Add the rind of a lemon minced very fine, and pour over all, when boil- ing hot, a pint of the best white wine vinegar. Bottle when cold, and cork tightly for use. Probable cost, lOd. Everlasting Syllabubs.—Put into a rather deep pan two pints of good thick cream, a pint and a half of raisin wine, a pound of fine sugar, and the juice and grated rind of three lemons. "Whisk all briskly, and fill glasses, taking off the top as it rises with a slice. Ornament with harlequin sugar-plums. If kept in a cold place the everlasting syllabubs will keep eight or ten days. Probable cost, 48. for this quantity. Everton Toffee-—Put one pound of brown sugar and one tea-cupful of cold water into a pan well rubbed with good fresh butter. Set it over a slow fire, and boil until the sugar has become a smooth, thick syrup, then stir into it half a pound of butter, and boil for half an hour. "When sufficiently boiled, it may be tested by di'opping some on a plate, and if it dries hard and can easily be removed, the toft'ee is ready for flavouring. For this purpose, add twenty or thirty drops of essence of lemon. Pour the toffee into a wide, well-buttered dish. If liked, vinegar may be substituted for the water, then the lemon may be omitted. Everton ToflPee (another way).—Get one pound of treacle, the same quantity of moist sugar, and half a pound of butter. Put thnm in a saucepan large enough to allow of fast boiling over a clear fire. Put in the butter first, and rub it well over the bottom of the saucepan ; then add the treacle and sugax,