XXX oarsell's cookery. these circumstances the cook who cau improvise an extra dish or two is a valual.le one; but as we are speaking at present on the subject of stock, we will confine our directions to tlie instantaneous manufacture of that necessaiy basis of all culinary operations. We will suppose the house, or at any rate an adjacent grocer's, to contain some extract of meat and some gelatine. Most houses likewise have at hiuul a few onions and some parsley. Let the cook pi-oceed as follows :—Take an onion, and having peeled and split it in two, stick two or three cloves in it, and place it in a saucepan of water with a good bunch of parsley, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of gelatine—about a quarter of one of those little j^ackets generally sold by grocers for making jeliy—let aU this boil tUl the gelatine is dissolved, and then strain it off into a basin, taking care in straining it to press the onion and parsley so as to squeeze as much as possible the goodness out of them. If any celery-seed happens to have been in the house, a very little may have been added, only care should be taken not to put too much in, as the flavour is exceedingly strong. Having then strained off this liquid, add to it about a tea-spoonful of extract of meat, and stir it all up till the extract is dissolved ; after which taste it as often as the addition of extract of meat entails the addition of more salt, and as extract of. meat unfortunately varies both in flavour and goodness, it is difficult to give any exact quantities to be used. We now have a very fair stock, which indeed may be sent up as soup just as it is. It is, of course, perfectly pure from grease, and should be, if the gelatine be good, perfectly bright; the stock is, however, by no means equal in flavour to that made from meat, and consequently a good cook would, if possible, take advantage of anything in her possession to impart a little additional flavour. Now, for this purpose, nothing is better then a few fresh tarragon- leaves, or, if fresh tarragon-leaves cannot be obtained, a very small pinch of dried tarragon can be put in with the parsley, which will have the effect of imparting the flavour; but it should be strained off with the onion, &c., whereas the fi-esh tarragon may be served up in the soup. Stock thus made can, of course, have vermicelli or anything else added to it should a perfectly plain soup not be wished. There are, however, a number of persons who have the mistaken notion that a thin soup is of necessity poor. If by chance you are aware of their ignorance it is as well to remind the cook to thicken the soup, which can be done as previously directed in a veiy few moments by boiling in it a little arrowroot, mixed up and well stu-red in a little cold water. When this is done, be careful not to ovei'-thicken the soup, or the deception becomes too apparent; enough arrowroot should be added to give the soup an appearance of thin prepared gum in consistency. Very often in private houses stock is made from the water in which mutton has been boiled. Now, of course, mutton will not make by any means the same quality of stock that beef or veal will, and consequently stock made from mutton shoidd, when possible, be reserved for certain kinds of soup, such as oyster soup; but we will refer to this subject more fully when we come to speak on soups in general, and will now conclude our remarks on stock with general directions for the removal of fat and grease, which is very often a great difficulty with young and inexperienced cooks. First, cooks should bear in mind that there are different kinds of grease—one hard, the removal of which gives comparatively little trouble ; another soft, and held in solution by the stock, which is far more difficult to remove. To illustrate what we mean, we will contrast the stock made, say from boiling a leg of mutton, and that made by boiling a pig's head. If both are allowed to get cold, the mutton