GBA GBA Gravy for Minced Veal, Cheap.— Put the trimniings and hones of the veiil iuto a saucepan, with as much water as will cover them. With a pint of water put a small onion, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, a small sprig of thj-me, a blade of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Stew gently for an hour, then strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and add a table-spoonful of cream or milk. The flavour may be varied by the addition of mushroom or walnut ketchup, or the cream may be omitted, and the jillce of half a lemon substituted for it. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint. Gravy for Patties.—Take the bones, Bkin, and trimmings of the meat of which the patties are made, and put them into a jar with as much water as wUl cover them, a little pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, and a shallot, finely- minced. Tie two or three folds of paper over the jar, and place it in a moderate oven for two hours. Strain thejgravy, skim it carefully, let it boil, and it is ready to be put into the patties. If these are made of venison or hare, it is an improvement to dissolve a small quantity of red currant jelly in. the gravy, and to add a little claret. Gravy for Pike, Baked.—IMix a table- spoonful of flour very smoothly with half a pint of stock. Simmer gently, with a minced onion and a sprig of parsley, for twenty minutes, then strain and skim carefully, add pepper and salt to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of ketchup. Drain off the fat from the pan in which the pike has been baked, pour in the boiling liquid, stir it well, let it boil up once more, and serve. If no stock is at hand, a little may be made from gravy beef, any bones and trimmings of meat, or Liebig's extract of meat. Probable cost, about 2d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. Gravy for Rissoles. — Take the skin, trimmings, and bones of the meat from which the rissoles have been made. Divide them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a minced onion and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Turn them about over a quick fire till they are lightly browned, then add a pint of boiling water, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a slice of toasted bread. Put on the Ud of the saucepan, and simfiier gently for an hour. Strain; thicken the gra^y with a table- spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, add a table-spoonfiil of ketchup and half a salt-spoonful of salt, boil once more, and serve. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of gravy. Gravv for Roast Meat.—About twenty minutes before the joint is taken from the fire, put a common dish under it, and pour slowly and gradually over the brown parts of the meat two or three table-spoonfuls of boiling water, in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has been dissolved. When it has all dropped into the dish, set it aside, carefully skim off the fat as it rises to the surface, for it is very disagree- able to have bubbles of fat on the top of the gravy in the dish, let it boil, and serve a very small quantity on the dish with the meat, and the rest in a tureen. When a larger quantity of gravy is requii-ed, there is in ordinary house- holds no necessity to purchase gravy-beef in order to obtain it. The trimmings and hard brown uneatable pieces of roasted and broiled meat or poultry should be regularly collected, put into a jar, and covered with boiling water. The next day they should be boiled and strained, and will then be ready for use. The brown liquid thus obtained will be much better than water to put under the joint. Gravy for Roast Venison.—Take three shank-bones of mutton, and put them into a stewpan with a pint of water and six or eight peppercorns, and, after bringing them to a boil, let them simmer gently for two hours. Skim and strain, add a pinch of salt, a table- spoonfiJ. of red currant jelly, and a glass of port or claret. BoU up once, and the gravy is ready to serve. If preferred, a table-spoonfxil of walnut ketchup may be substituted for the jelly and wine. Probable cost, about 8d., ex- clusive of the wane. Sufficient for nearly a pint of gravy. Gravy for Roast Venison (another way).—Boil a quarter of a pint of good French vinegar with two oimces of poimded loaf sugar, and as soon as the latter is dissolved, pour it into a tureen. A well-tinned saucepan should be used in making this gravy. Time, thi-ee or four minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. i Gravy from Liebig's Extract of i Meat.—Excellent and nouiiehing grecvy may be made from the extract of meat com- monly known as Liebig's Extract of Meat. This valuable preparation cannot be too highly prized. As a matter of economy alone, it ought to be in every home. It is very good if simply dissolved in a little boiling water, and mixed with a rather liberal allowance of salt, but it may be converted into superior gra-vy, by attending to the following diiections:—Cut two ounces of the lean of undressed ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a wahiut, two shallots, finely minced, two cloves, a blade of mace, two sprigs of parsley, one of sweet marjoram, and one of thjTne, and six peppercorns. Place the pan on a moderate fire, and let it remain until the ham and the sides of the pan are brightly coloured, mo\'ing the pieces of meat about with a wooden spoon, to prevent burning, and to aUow of their being equally browned on all sides. Pour over them, very gradually, a pint of boiling water, in which half a tea-spoonful of the extract has been dissolved. Boil, then simmer gently for half an hour, strain, and serve. If a thick sauce is wanted, the flour should be mixed smoothly with the butter before the gravy is put in. Probable cost, 5d. per tea-spoonful of the extract. Sufficient for a quart of gravy. Gravy, Garlic {see Garlic Gravj^). Gravy in haste.—Take half a pound of lean beef, an onion, and a carrot, and cut them all into very small pieces. Put them into a