GAB ( 244 ) paisley into the fat, and as soon aa it is crisp tako it up with an egg-slico, and dry it hefore tho firo. Friod and crisped parsley (see Crisped Parsley) are the most usual, and the cheapest of ^'arnishings, hut they require care in pre- paration, p] very thing fried and savouiy is sei-ved with fried parsley. Prohablo cost, Id. per bunch. Garnish, Potatoes Fried for.—Choose largo potatoes. Penl thcni, and cut them into slices, about tho eighth of an inch in thickness. Wash, and dry them in a cloth. Heat enough di'ipping to cover them entirely. As soon as it boils and is still, put in tho potatoes, a few at once; shake them to insure their being evenly cooked. When lightly browned and crisp, drain them from the fat, sprinkle a little salt over, and serve. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Allow half a poxmd for each person. G-arnisli, Potatoes Fried for (another way).—Boil as many potatoes as are required. When nearly cooked, take t'hem out, and put them into a stewpan with some hot fat. 8hake the pan, to prevent them burning, and when they are lightly browned and crisp, drain, and serve as hot as possible. It is an improve- ment to flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in bread - crumbs before frying. Time, ten minutes to fiy. Probable cost, 2d. per pound. Sufhcient, two potatoes for each person. Garnish, Potatoes Fried for (another way).—Mash some potatoes with a httle butter and milk. Shape them into balls, and proceed as in the last recipe. Time, ten minutes. Pro- able cost, 2d. per pound. Sufficient, half a poimd for each person. Garnish, Pur^e of Green Peas for. —BoU. some young green peas, in the usual way, untn tender. Pound them in a mortar, press them through a sieve, and put the pulp into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, a lump of sugar, and a table-spoonful of good stock. Stir over the fire until the puree is quite hot, and serve, piled high on a dish, with the cutlets, &c., round it. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient, one peck for six or seven persons. Garnish, Tomatoes for.—Remove the stalks of the tomatoes. Put them into a sauce- pan, sufficiently large for all to be in it without resting one upon another. Cover them with good gravy, and stew gently imtil tender, turn- ing them carefully once or twice, to insure their being equally cooked. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, rub it through a sieve, add cayenne, and salt, and serve with cutlets, roast meat, «fec. Time, half an hour to boil the tomatoes. Sufficient, a basket for a hot joint. Probable cost, 9d. or Is. Garnish, Truflles for.—Wash the truffles by brushing them in several waters tmtil they are quite free from sand. Put them into some good stock, and let them boil gently for fifteen minutes. They should cool in the liquid. Slice for use. Garniture (on Ragout). — Blanch three lambs' sweetbreads in boiling water ; soak and Blmmer them gently, with the livers, in as much good brown gravy as will cover them. When they have been on the firo about twenty niinutes, take thern up, cut them into small pieces, and return them to the saucepan with some button-nmshrooms, pepper, salt, and nut- meg. Simmer until quite tender. Tliicken with flour and butter. A few minutes before serving, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and mix with the ragojlt, very giudually, the yolks of two eggs and a cupful of cream. Tho ragoilt must not boil after the eggs are added. Put finely-flavoured forcemeat balls round the dish, and, if they arc hked, peas. Asparagus points or French beans may be sent to table in the same dish. Time, forty minutes altogether. Allow three sweetbreads, &c., for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 3b. each. Gateau.—A gateau is a French coimtry cake for highdays and holidays, made of dougli, with which has been mixed currants, butter, and eggs. It is baked in the shape of a long loaf, and is served cut in slices, which are spread with butter, and eaten at the end of a meal. It may, of course, be made either plain or rich. For an ordinary gateau the rule is, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of raisin/^, five eggs, and a little yeast, to every pound of flour; no sugar. Milk is sometimes used instead of water, but this makes the cake drier. Probable cost, 6d. per poimd. Gateau (i la Dauphine). — Thoroughly beat the yolks of ten eggs; mix with them half a pound of pounded sugar, a table-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, two table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and a quarter of a poimd of the best flour. Beat the whites to a solid froth, and stir them in with the rest. Put the mixture into a well-oiled tin, and bake in a good oven for about forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized gateau. Gateau de Chocolat.—Make a gateau, as in the last recipe {see Gateau a la Dauphine). When it is sufficiently baked, turn it out of the tin, and let it cool. Put half a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water. Dip the finger and thumb into cold water, and keep taking a little of the boiling sugar be- tween them. When it looks like strong glue it should be taken from the fire, allowed to stand eight or ten minutes, and then be mixed with three ounces of chocolate, dissolved in a little water. Work all well together, and while the mixture is still hot, glaze the gateau with it, and ornament with spun sugar. Time, forty minutes to bake the cake. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized gateau. Gateau de Compiegne.—Gateau de Compiegne is made by mixing a little brioche paste {see Brioche Paste) with currants and raisins. Gateau d'Epice. — oateau d'Epice is the name for French gingerbread flavoured with vanilla. Pound a quarter of ^ pod ot vanilla with a dessert-spoonful of brandy, btu: it into half a pound of treacle, and put it into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, hall an ounce ot ground ginger, an ounce of randier?.