CUB OTTR (176) in finely-pounded white sugar, and lay them carefullV on sheets of paper to dry. The sugar will crystallise on the curi-ants, and will have a very good effect. A pretty dish may be made by icing in this way different coloured fruits suittible for dessert, and arranging them taste- fully on a dish. Time, four or five hours to crj'stallise. Currants, To Bottle, for Tarts in Winter.—Ascertain that the fruit has been gathered when it was quite dry or it will not keep. Pick it and put it into clean, wide- mouthed, dry bottles. A few strawberries or raspberries may be added or not. Cover the fruit with water. Soak some bladder in water, tie a Uttle tinnly over the top of each bottle, and wTap a little hay round the bottles; then put them into a pan of cold water, and let them stand upright without touching one another; the water should reach nearly to the necks of the bottles. Put the pan on the fire, and when the water is on the point of boiling, draw it to one side, and let it remain for half an hour. The bottles should not be taken out of the water until it is nearly cold. Tie strong paper over each bottle, and keep them in a bottle-rack in a cool, dry place, with the necks downwards. The fruit will keep good for years. The water must not boU. Shake the &uit well down, or the bottles will not be more than half full. Currants, To Clean.—The best way to clean dried currants is to rub a handful of flour into them; then put them into a colander, shake it well to get rid of the stalks, and after- wards pour over the currants a little cold water. Press the currants in a soft cloth and lay them on a dish, look them carefully over to see that no small stones are amongst them, put them on the hearth at a little distance from the fire, and let them gradually dry. If placed too near, so as to dry very quickly, they will be hard. Currants, to Keep, for Tarts.—Gather the fruit when it is quite dry and not over-ripe, pick it from the stalks, and put it into a large dry earthen jar, with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar to each pound of fruit. Put it in a good oven and bake it for twenty minutes. Warm some preserving jars, be sure that they are quite dry, and fill them with the fruit. Tie a bladder over them immediately and store them in a dry place. They will keep good through the winter if they are not opened, but they require to be used when the cover has once been removed. Probable cost of currants, 4d. to 6d. per quart. Curry.—This favourite dish, especially a favoiirite with those who have resided in India, is often rendered unpalatable by the same curry seasoning being used for every dish, however differently may be the viands of which it is com- posed. It must be evident that the same flavouring will not be suitable for a curry of chicken, of fish, or of calf's head. The season- ing should always he adapted to the character of the meat, and, if it can be ascertained, to the taste of those who have to eat it. The first thing to be attended to is to have good stock, Becondly, suitable seasoning, and thirdly, plenty pf properly prepared rice, for the rest of the dish 18 only intended to serve as a sort of relish to this most important part of it. The meat, whether cooked or otherwise, should be cut into smaU convenient-sized pieces, and fried in hot butter until lightly browned, with sUced onions and mushrooms, or mushi-oom powder. A little good stock should then be added, which, after simmering a little while, should be thickened with curry powder, curry paste, and, if liked, a little ground rice. The boiled rice should be piled round the dish. Though fresh meat is always to be preferred as being more juicy, yet cold meat is excellent warmed up as a curry; and it should be remembered that it does not require so much stewing as fresh. When other proportions are not given, a tea- spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of cirrry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and a breakfast-cupful of gravy may be allowed for every pound of meat. The addition of a soxir apple, or a little grated cocoa-nut, or tomatoes, or cucumbers, or green goosebemes (seeded), or spinage, will greatly improve various ciirries. It must be remembered that the vege- tables are to be stewed in the gravy until they have imparted their flavour to it, then passed through a sieve, and returned to the curry. Curry, Calcutta.—Cut up a young chicken, either cooked or raw, into convenient- sized pieces. If home-made cunry powder is preferred it may be made by pounding tor^ether ; and mixing thoroughly a table-spoonful of coriander seed, a table-spoonful of poppy seed, a salt-spoonful of turmeric, half a salt-spoonfuJ of red chilli, half a salt-spoonful of cumin seed, half a salt-spoonful of gi'ound ginger, and a salt-spoonful of salt, tienerally speaking, how- ever, excellent curry paste and powder may be I purchased of respectable dealers for as little as I the ingredients would cost. Mix this smoothly I with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fry two sliced onions in it till lightly brownep. Then fry the chicken. Add the milk of a cocoa-nut, and simmer all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Stir in the juice of a small lemon, and serve with rice. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry Gravy.—Make a powder by mixing together two table-spoonfuls of ground rice with a salt-spoonful of pepper, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs dried and powdered. Cut two pounds of veal into pieces about an inch and a half square and half an inch thick. Dip them in hot butter, then in the powder, and fry them in butter tiU lightly browned on both sides. Melt a little butter over the fire, and fry in it six large onions and two apples sliced. When tender rub them through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry paste, a table- spoonful of ground rice, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and as much nicely-flavoured stock as is required. Stir the sauce over the fire, and put the fried meat into it. Simmer gently for forty minutes. Just before serving, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. AVlien the flavour is liked, a quarter of a clove of garlic may be stewed with the meat. Probable cost, 2b. 64. Sufficient for four or five persong