GOO GOO ( 267 ) dissolved. Add the gooseberries, and boil all gently together for forty minutes. Pour out the contents of the pin, and on the following day put the berries into jars, boil the syrup for a quarter of an hour, and pour it over the fruit. Cover closely. Probable cost, 9d. per pound jar. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit fer a pound of jam. (Jooseberry Jam, White or Yellow. —Choose sound ripe gooseben-ies, which have been gathered on a dry day. Pick off the tops and stalks, and take equal weights of fruit and sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, with a cupful of water to every pound. Boil for ten minutes, then add the fruit, and when the berries have once boiled, simmer gently until they are sufficiently cooked. This may be ascertained in the usual way, by putting a little on a plate, and if it jellies it is done enough. Pour into jars, cover with brandied or oiled paper, and tissue-paper dipped either in gum-water or the unbeaten white of an egg. Time, three-quarters of an hour to boil the fruit. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit for a pound of jam. Gooseberry Jelly.—Choose ripe, and perfectly sound gooseberries,-gathered on a dry day. Pick them, put them into a preserving- pan, and simmer them gently until they yield their juice readily. Strain them through a sieve, and afterwards through a jeUy-bag, but on no account squeeze the fruit. If left moist the gooseberries may, with the addition of some sugar and a few red currants, be made into jam, for puddings, &c.; or it may be made into gooseberry paste (see Gooseberry Paste). Weigh the juice, boil it quickly for a quarter of an hour, then add three poimds of pounded loaf sugar to every four pounds of juice. When the sugar is dissolved, boil together for five minutes, then pour into jars, and cover securely. It is a great improvement to add a pound of red or white currant juice to every three pounds of goose- berry juice. Gooseberry Jelly, Green.—Cut off the tops and stalks from some ripe gooseberries. Put them into a preser\'ing-pan, with three- quarters of a pint of water to every pound of fruit, and simmer gently until they are well broken. Strain through a jelly-bag, without squeezing the fruit. Weigh the juice, and boU it rapidly for a quarter of an hour. Mix with it an equal weight of loaf sugar, and boil together until it will stiffen. Skim carefully, and pour into jars. Probable cost, 9d. per half-pound jar. Sufficient, a pound of gooseberries will give on an average nearly three-quarters of a pint of jeUy. Gooseberry, Mock.—Rhubarb may be used instead of gooseberries in making sauce for fish. It should be boiled until quite tender sweetened, pressed through a sieve, and then used in the same way as gooseberries. Gooseberry Paste.-When the juice has been gently drawn from gooseberries for iellv, the fruit may be made into paste for dessert, &c. Weigh the pulp, put it into a preser^-ing-pan, and boil It until it comes up iA a mass^ with the spoon, leaving the saucepan dry. Lift it from the fire, and mix with it some pounded loaf sugar, allowing half a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp, weighed before boiling. A\Tien- well mixgd, return it to the saucepan, and boil twenty minutes longer. It must be stirred unceasingly or it will bum. Put it into jelly jars, and cover securely in the usual way^ Time, about one hour to boil the pulp, twenty minutes to boil with the sugar. Gooseberry Pudding, Baked.— Pick the heads and stalks off the gooseberries,, and put the berries into a jar. Place this jar in a saucepan of water, and let it boil until the- fruit is soft enough to pulp. Press it through a sieve, and to every pint of pulp add an ounce and a half of fresh butter, four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and three well-beaten eggs. The latter- should not be added until the pudding is cooL Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake- in a moderate oven. Strew sifted sugar over- the pudding before serving. It may be eaten either hot or cold. If a richer pudding is- required, Savoy biscmts may be substituted for- the bread-crumbs, and the edge of the dish may- be lined with puff paste. Time, about half ani hour to bake. Probable cost, lOd, if made witli bread. Sufficient for five persons. Gooseberry Sauce, for Mackerel. —Cut the tops and stalks from half a pint of green gooseberries. Boil them until tender, press them through a sieve, and mix them with half a pint of melted butter. Yarious seasonings are used for this sauce—such as grated ginger, or grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, a little pounded sugar, or cayenne pepper. A wine- glassful of sorrel or spinach-juice is a decided improvement. The gooseberries are often, sent to table mashed and flavoured, without, being mixed with the melted butter. Time,, about forty minutes to prepare. Sufficient, for a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 4d. Gooseberry Souffl^ (a pretty supper dish).—Pick the gooseberries, and boil them with a liberal allowance of sugar until tender. Press them through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp into a glass dish. Let it grow cold, then pom- over it a good custard. This may be made -with the yolks of eggs, and the whites may be beaten till firm and cooked as described under the heading, Eggs as Snow. The ap- pearance is improved by colouring half the white of egg with a few drops of cochineal.. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil a. quart of gooseberries till they are tender. Sufficient, a quart of gooseberries and a pint, and a half of custard for six or eight persons Probable cost, Is. 4d. Gooseberry Tart.—Pick off the tops and' stalks of the gooseberries. Put them into a pie-dish, pile them high in the centre, strew a< httle sugar over them, and add a table-spoon-■ ful of water. Line the edge of the dish A^th ai good crust, put on the cover, and bake in a> brisk oven Strew a little powdered suffar over before sending the tart to table. A little cream, or custard is a gi-eat improvement to this didu An ample aUowance of sugar is required forr gooseberries, especially when thev are partiaUy?