PRINCIPLES—SOUP. X5cxm SOUP. We now come to consider soups in general, and we will divide them into three classes—clear, thick, and purees. Clear soups are, of course, as the word implies, bright as well as thin; thick soup is generally of the consistency of ordinary cream, or not quite so thick, and is, of course, not transparent. By a pur6e we do not necessai-ily mean a soup of a thicker consistency than ordinary thick soup, but we wovdd distinguish between thick soups and pxirees as follows:—A thick soup owes its consistency to the addition of some ai-tificial thickening, such as brown roux, aiTowroot, &c.; a puree owes its consistency to the fact that the ingredients have been rubbed tluough a tamis or a wire sieve. This latter distinction is of the utmost importance. Unfoi-tunately, we have no English word that conveys exactly the same idea as the French word puree, and consequently we are often obliged to use the word soup where the word puree would convey a better meaning. For instance, pea-soup should really be called piiree of peas 3 Palestine soup, pur^e of artichokes. As we have already described how to make good strong stock, and also how to clear it, our remarks with regard to clear soup must be almost entirely confined to the ingredients that are added to the stock, and give rise to the various names by which soups are distinguished. For instance, vermicelli soup is simply vermicelli boiled in stock, maccaroni soup is maccaroni boiled in stock. The best method of preparing these and all soups will be found under the proper headings in another pait of the present work; but I would remind cooks of the general principle to be observed in adding these ingredients to stock, and that is, cleanliness. Whenever maccaroni, vermicelli, pearl-barley, &c., have to be added to soup, they should invariably be at any rate partially boiled in plain water first, in order that the outside dirty part may be washed off by being dissolved. To illustrate the importance of this point, I would mention that very common invalid beverage called barley-water. How many of my readers are there but can call to mind drinking barley-water from a tumbler by their bedside, and being disgusted with a dirty sediment at the bottom of the glass 1 Now, is the cook to blame for this 1 Undoubtedly. Had she been properly instructed, she would have partially boiled the barley, and thrown away the first water, and then have placed the clean-washed barley, with its dirty film removed by being dissolved, into fresh boiling water. It is of no use to wa^h vermicelli, maccaroni, barley, &c., m cold water to clean it, it must be boiled; and in the case of maccaroni of all kmds and vermicelli it is best to boil it in plain water tHI it is tender, and then add It to the stock. Of course, in the case of an ingredient like barley where it is added to broth to increase its nourishment, it should only be boHed sufficiently lon<^ to ensure all the outside being dissolved, so that perfect cleanliness may be obtained'' How many cooks are there who can call to mind the follo^ving misadventure with the soup ! They have got the stock as bright as sheny, they have added the vermicelli, and it has turned, not thick, but cloudy-the reason being that they did not boil the vermicelli in water separately. We next come to that very lar^e variety of soups that contain vegetables, the best one to take as a type of the cli perhaps being spring soup. Spring soup is simply a number of vegetables boiled in «tock; such vegetables a„s turnips, celery, carrots, small spinng onions, cauliflowei^ asparagxis tops, pen peas, Ac. Now when we come to speak generally on the principles of boiling vegetables, we shall have to explain the\mport...ce of leav n, plenty of room for the ste.:u to escape, in order to ens^^e u good colour S Ijttko.—3