CHE ( 120 ) • CHE mdes. riaeo on tlio toast a luyor of cold roast beef, flavoured with mustard and Jiorso-radish. Over this spread some hot toasted cheoso," thoroughly siiturated with porter and flavoured with black pepper, salt, and shallot vinegar. This dish, which seems to our modem idea rather indigestible than otherwise, was a fa- voui-ito supper with our ancestors. 'Vime, a few niinutes to toast the cheese. Sufficient, a slice for each person. Probable cost, 2d. per slice, exclusive of the cold meat. Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Eare- blt.—Cut some slices of tlio crumb of bread about half an inch in thickness, and toast them lightly on both sides. Lay on them some slices of good, rich cheese, and put them in a cheese- toaster till the cheese is melted. Spread a little made mustard and pepper over them, and serve on very hot plates. It is most desirable to send this dish to table quite hot, as without this it is entirely worthless. Cheese, to Keep.—T\'Tien a whole cheese is cut, and the consumption smaU, it generally becomes dry and, loses its flavour after it has been used a little while. In order to prevent this, a small piece should "be cut for use, and the remainder rubbed with butter, wrapped in a clean, cloth, and placed in a covered jar, which should be kept in a cool and rather damp place. If these directions are attended to, a whole cheese might be purchased at a time, and the goodness preserved until it is finished. This will bo found to be much more economical than buying it in small quantities. Cheese which has become too dry to be presented at table may be used for stewing, or grated for macaroni. The mould which gathers on cheese should be wiped off with a damp cloth. If any mites appear, a little brandy shoidd be poured over the part. Cheese with Macaroni.—Put a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni into a saucepan with a little salt, and sufficient boiling nulk and water to cover it. Let it boU until it is quite tender but firm, then put a layer of it into a well-buttered dish, and over that sprinkle some bread-crumbs and a mixture of Parmesan and Cheshire cheese. Place three or four lumps of butter on it, and repeat until the dish is full, being careful to have bread-crumbs at the top. Ponr a little butter warmed, but not oiled, over the crumbs, and brown the preparation before a clear fire, or with a salamander, but do not put it in the oven, or it will taste of oil. Serve with salt and mustard. Riband macaroni may be used if preferred, and it will not require so much boiling. It may be boiled in water with- out the milk, and a little butter added instead. Time to boil the macaroni, about one hour and a j half. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four •or five persons. Cheese with Macaroni (another way). —Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in milk and water imtil it is tender but firm, then drain it and place it at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish. "VNTiisk well the yolks of two eggs, and stir into them a breakfast-cupful of cream and half a cupful of the liquid in which the macaroni was boiled. Stir this gently over the fire until it tluckons, but on no account aUow It to boil. Pour it on tlic macaroni, and simnkle over the top three talihi-spoonfuls of grated cheese. Brown the mixture before a clear fire or with a salamander, and serve. Time to boil the macaroni, one Jiour and a half. Probaljle cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient fur four or five personu. Cheese with Macaroni (another way). —Droi) a quarter of a p.jund of macaroni in some boiling milk and water, and let it simmer gently until it is quite tender but firm. Put four ounces of grated cheese in a breakfast- cupful of boiled cream or new milk, and place the mixture in a saucepan with a blade of mace, throe or four gi-ains of cavenne, a piece of butter, and a little salt. The cheese must be quite free from rind, and should be stirred constantly imtil it is quite melted, and we M-ould recommend a mixture of cheeses, as Parmesan, if used by itself, soon gets lumpy. WTien it is dissolved, add the boiled macaroni to it, first putting it in a sieve for two or three minutes to drain. Let it simmer for a few minutes longer, then put it into a dish, strew over it some finely-grated bread-crumbs, and brown in a hot oven, or with a salamander. Good white sauce may be substituted for the cream. Time, one hour and a half to boil the macaroni. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Cheesecakes.—Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs sei^arately; the whites must be beaten to a solid froth. Rub the rind of a lemon ujion a quarter of a poimd of loaf sugar; then pound it, and mix it with the eggs. Add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter melted, and the juice of two lemons. When these are well beaten together, put the mixture into a large jar, which should be jilaced in a pan of boiling water on the fire. Stir it constantly until it thickens. Line some tartlet tins with a good light crust, and fill them three parts with the mixture. When nearly baked, take them out of the oven for a minute, brush them over with white of egg, and sift a little pounded sugar over them, and put them back into the oven to brown. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lid. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes. Cheesecakes, AlrDond.—Bknch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and four or five bitter ones ; add a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, a quarter of a poimd of butter, the thin rind of a lemon minced as finely as possible, the juice of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sherry or brandy. Line tartlet tins with good puft' paste, and just before filling them, add the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for two dozen cheesecakes (see Almond Cheesecakes). Cheesecakes, Apple. — Grate half a pound of apples, weighed after they are pared and cored, add the rind of two lemons grated, half a pound of melted butter, half a poimd of finely-sifted sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Lino the tartlet tins, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a