IND ( 326 ) IND into one pound of good dry flour spiced with poimdod^ g-inf,'or, cinnamon, and cIovoh—two ouncoa of ginjL^or to halt' an ounco of cinniuuon and cloves mixed. Bake on tins, either in nuts or cakes. Time, about a quarter of an liour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Indian Griddle Cake.—To one quart of now milk add as much Hour as will make a thick batter. Mi.x witli the milk two ogf,'8 well beaten before the mixing, and with the flour a little salt. Eub butter over a hot gi-iddle; drop the batter from a table-spoon on to it, and bake at once. Indian Le Bon Diable.—Make deep scores in the meat to be devilled. If of poultry, the drumsticks, gizzard, and rump are the best for this savoury dish. It is usually prepared at table to suit the palates of the consumers, and from thence sent to the cook to broil. Powder every part with a mixture of the fol- lowing ingredients :—Of salt, cayenne, and curry-powdor, equal quantities, and a double quantity of mushroom or truffle powder. Heat some of the gravy from the dishes com- posing the grill, and when boiling hot pour it over with a little lemon-juice. Indian Maize.—Take Indian corn-pods when about as large as radishes. Put them into an earthenware jar, and cover them with boiling vinegar. Intersperse bay-leaves mode- rately, and a little basilicum crumbled up: or throw the young ears into a saucepan of boiling salted water for two or three minutes—just time enough to restore the water to the boil— and then drain. Boil bay-leaves, chUi-pods or capsicums, shallots, and a small bit of garlic in vinegar. Pour the vinegar when cold over the corn-ears, sprinkling mustard-seed plentifully over the top of the jar. Cover the jars with bladder, and keep them in a cool place. Indian Meal, Batter Cakes of {see Batter Cikes of Indian Meal). Indian Meal Fritters.—Make a batter as for other fritters with four or five table- spoonfuls of meal, a pint of warm milk, and four weU-beaten eggs. Drop the batter into hoiUng lard from a ladle; have plenty in the pan. Keep each fritter separate, and serve, after drying before the fire, as quickly as dos- sible, that they may not cool. Time, tun to twelve minutes to frj'. Indian Meal Johnny Cakes.—Mak) into a firm dough one quart of Indian meal, using as much warm water as may be required, and a little salt. Scoop out some of the meal from the centre, pour in the water, and mix in the usual way. Knead the dough, and roll it to about an inch in thickness. Lay the cake on a woll-buttcred griddle over a clear brisk fire, and toast it on both sides. When done, servo at once, split and buttered. This is a favourite American cake, eaten with fried pork. Indian Meal, Loaf Cake of {see Loaf Cake, itc.) Indian Meal Mush.—A popular and substantial article of American food, ])ropured like the Irish sliraboul or Scotch purridgo. it requires longer boiling and more careful mixing than oatmeal. The meal should bo mixed with boiling water or milk gradually, and stiired rapidly between each handful to prevent it from lumping. It requires long boiling, and when boiled is served with salt, sugar, and milk separately ; or it may be put into a well- buttered basin and served, turned out while still warm. A half pint of Indian meal mixed with a quart of boiling milk will make a good pudding, with the addition of an egg, two ounces of butter melted and stirred in, some pounded sugar, a little salt, nutmeg, and ginger. Bake in a well-buttered dish. The yellow corn-meal is the richest. For a boiled suet pudding mix flour with the suet when chopped, or it will not separate equally but become massed together. Moisten with milk, and knead and beat the dough, which should be fixm, with the rolling-pin to make it light. Make into dumplings of the size of a large apple, and boil them separately tied up in cloths loosely to give room for swelling. The much- approved polenta is made with partly-cooked mush turned into a weU-buttered shallow baking-dish, and mixed up with grated cheese ; to be baked from fifteen to twenty minutes— half a pound of mush to two ounces of grated cheese. To bake pudding, two hours; boil, one hour and a half. Indian MuflQins.—Take one quart of yellow corn meal, and stir boiling water into it to make a thick batter. When cool add two ounces of butter, a little salt, and two eggs. Bake at once in small cakes on a griddle, and when one side is brown turn the cakes over. If liked, add a tea-spoonful of j'east, and make into a dough of soft consistence, which should be covered up in a warm place to rise. Bake in rings as soon as risen. The dough will take about two hours to rise. Sufficient, one mufiin to each person. Indian Mullagatawny Soup.—For this favourite Indian soup take a couple of chickens, a large fowl, a knuckle of veal, or a calf's head, ANdth the trimmings, bones, and gristles of the breast of veal. Make a good strong stock; this must be carefully attended to. Cut the meat into pieces—mouthfuls—or the fowl into small joints, and simmer gently in about half a gallon of water. Fry six middle- sized onions and a couple of cloves of parhc shred fine, in two oimces of butter. Pound and mix well together an ounce of coriander seed,^ a quarter of an ounce each of chives, turmeric, and cassia, two drachms of cayenne, and rather more of black pepper. Put these ingredients with two large spoonfids of rice flour into a basin, mix them with some of the broth the meat has been boiled in, and strain to the rest. Simmer until the soup is about the thickness of cream Before taking it off the fire add the juice of a lemon to flavour it. Some people use- sour apples or other acids in muUagataXs-ny, but the lemon-juice is preferable. Serve the meat in the soup and boiled rice scparatel.v: cut lemons on a plate. Time, simmer from two to, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. per quart.. Sufliciont for eight persons. Indian Mustard.—To a mixture of mus- tard and flour in ec^ual q^uantities, rubbed to H