( 139 ) cm OLA •i Cinnamon, Tincture of.—1 ut three ounces of bruised ciimaniou into a bottle ol the best French brandy. It wiU be ready for use in a week. The probable cost wiU depend upon the quality of the brandy. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls mav be put into a little cold water, or one tea-spoonful into a glass of wme. The latter, if beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and sweetened, is agreeable and restorative. Citron Cake.—MLn; the well-beaten yolks of six eggs with half a pound of pounded and sifted sugar, and ten ounces of line flour; add half a pound of fi-esh butter beaten to a cream, fom- ounces of candied citron chopped small, a wine-glassful of brandy, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould, and bake it in a good oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy. Is. lOd. Suffi- cient for a medium-sized mould. Citron Pudding.—Mix two table-spoon- fuls of flour veiy smoothly with the beaten yolks of six eggs. Add very gradually one pint of new milk or cream, a quarter of a pound of citron chopped smaU, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Mix thoroughly, pour the batter into well-buttered cups, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes, or till set. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Citron and Almond Pudding.—This pudding is made in the same way as the pre- ceding one, with the addition of a dozen sweet almonds blanched and poimded. In both cases, if it is not wished to have a rich pudding, a smaller number of eggs may be used. Civet of Hare.—Cut the hare into neat small pieces. Take about half a pound of streaky bacon, which has been soaked in cold water a little while to make it firm, and divide it into small pieces. Pry these in a saucepan until lightly browned, add the pieces of hare, and when these also are brown, strain the gravy which has come out, and thicken it with three ounces of flour. Moisten it with a couple of glasses of good stock and port, add a bimch of parsley, half a pint of button onions, half a pint of small mushrooms, two cloves, a tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne, and the juice of a Seville orange. Bring the liquid to a boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the meat is sufficiently cooked, lleduce the sauce before serving, if necessary. A clove of garlic is often added to the dish. Time, if the hare is young, two and a half to three hours; if old, a longer time should be allowed. Probable cost of the hare, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Clams.—Clams are a kind of cockle, and are to be found on the west coast of Ireland and Scotland, and in Devonshire, Cornwall, and some parts of Wales. Though they figure largely in American cookery, they arc not much used in England; but persons living on the sea-shoro might make several by no means despicable dishes from them. Soyer says that they "are much superior in flavour to the oyster, and, if eaten raw, should bo about the same size ; but, if larger, should be made into soup, or cooked in the same way as the oyster." In America they are stewed. The clams are put into a stewpan, with a little water at the bottom of the pan, then boiled for twenty-five or thii-ty minutes, the scum carefully removed, and the juice seasoned with pepper and salt. Clams may be fried in batter with egg and bread-crumbs. Clam Soup.—Wash as many clams as may bo required, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient boiling water to keep them from burning. Boil them for a few minutes, and when the shells open and the juice rims out, take the clams from the shells and chop them small. Strain the liquor, and stir into it the chopped clams ; season it with pepper, and thicken with it a little butter rolled in flour, and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Put little pieces of toasted bread in the tureen before ponring the soup into it. The flavour of the soup may be varied by the addition of onions or celery, or a little milk may be added, or the yolks of well-beaten eggs. Soup may be made in the same v/ay from whelks and cockles. Time, half an hour. Sufficient, a quart of soup for three persons. Clarendon Pudding.—Pour a large breakfast-cupful of boiling milk upon three table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and the thin rind of a lemon. Let it stand until it cools; then stir it gi-adually into four weU-beaten eggs. Remove the crust from two French rolls, cut them into slices, and butter each slice thickly on both sides. Butter a plain round mould, stick some rasins on the inside in lines, and fill the mould with layers of roUs, raisins, and custard. Soak for an hour, then cover the pudding with a floured cloth and boil or steam it. Time to boil or steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Claret Cup.—Pour a bottle of claret into a large jug, and add two glasses of sherrj-, brandy, or any wine, spirit, or liquor that may be preferred, and half a glass of marischino. Put in the thin rind of a lemon and two table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let it stand for half an hour till the sugar is dissolved, then put in a sprig of borage, bahn, or verbena, or a little sliced cucumber. Just before using, add a bottle of soda or seltzer ^ater and a large piece of ice. Sliced nectarines, peaches, or rasp- berries may be used instead of lemon-rind. Claret, Mulled.—Put two drachms of cinnamon, two drachms of ground ginger, and two drachms of cloves into a saucepan with a breakfast-cupful of cold water, six ounces of loaf sugar, and the thin rind of an orange. Boil all to a syrup, being careful that the scum is removed as it rises; then add two hottles of claret. Take the wine from the fire just before it boils, and serve it at once. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., ex- clusive of the claret. Claret Puffs.—Mix a pint of claret with the same quantity of thick cream. Add three table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, and let the mixture stand some hours.