( 261 ) GEB pepper and salt, and add two table-spoonfula of vinegar, and foui- of oil, to every two pounds of vegetables. Serve in a siilad-bowl, and garnish with sUe«d beetroot and parsley. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Grerman Sauce (for brawn, cold pickled pork, or boar's head).—Dissolve a quarter of a pound of red cun-ant jelly, and mix with it the juice, and thinly-shred rind of a large orange, a heaped table-spoonful of scraped horse- radish, a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, two table- spoonfids of vinegar, and four of salad-oil. Put the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and send to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. Gterman Soup.—Fry half an ounce of cummin-seed in a little hot butter, for a few minutes; keep moving them about all the time. Pour upon them three pints of good, nicely- flavoured chicken-broth, and simmer gently for nearly an hour. Season with pepper and salt, put some toasted sippets in the tureen, and strain the soup over them. The above quan- tities are sufficient for three pints of soup. German Toast.—Take the remains of cold stew, or fricassee. Mince it finely, and mix with a pint of it, including the gravy, two weU-beaten eggs, one table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and one onion, finely minced. Stir the mixture over a slow fire until it is thick, and one- third of it boiled away. Let it get quite cold. Spread it on pieces of toast, brush it over with beaten egg, strew bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Just before serving, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the toast. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour, or until the toast is thoroughly heated through. German Yeast.—German yeast is now very generally used, owing to the difficulty of obfciining brewer's yeast without its being so bitter as to spoil the bread. It is very excellent when it can be obtained fresh and sweet, but care should be taken that is so, as it quickly deteriorates in quality; and is then exceedingly unwholesome. It should be dissolved very gradually, with a little warm water, or warm milk and water, and stirred until it is perfectly smooth and creamy. Probable cost, Id. per ounce. Sufficient, one ounce for a quaiiem, half a gallon, or three pounds and a half of flour. German Yeast Bread.—Put some flour (the quantity to be regulated by the size of the family) into a bowl. To one quartern allow one tea-spoonful of salt, one ounce of German yeast, and one quart of new milk. If this cannot be procured, milk and water, or water only, may be used; but bread is always nicer when made with milk. Dissolve the yeast smoothly and gradually with a little lukewarm liquid; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put it in; mix it with sufficient flour to make a batter; strew a little flour over the top, and leave the leaven to rise. When it is swollen and cracked, the bread should be kneaded at once, and .should be done thoroughly, §8 on this its quality vory much dcijonds.' Tt should be quite firm and smooth. Leave it in the bowl, make one or two slight gashes with a knife on the surface, cover it with a cloth, and, if it be winter time, leave it near the fire to rise, but not sufficiently neai' to make it hot. In about an hour it will have lisen consider- ably, and be ready for making into loaves of any size that may be desired. Let them rise a minute or two after being put into the tins, and prick them lightly in one or two places with a fork, to let the'steam escape. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about two houra for a quartern loaf. It is to be added that if a larger quantitj' of flour is used, so that all the dough cannot be baked at once, that which is left in the bowl must be kept in a moderate temperature, neither very warm nor very cold. Gherkins. — Gherkins are young cu- cumbers, and are only used for pickling. They should be gathered on a dry day, and those in one bottle should be, as nearly as possible, uniform in size. They are not leally good for much in flavour until they are about three and a half inches long, and three-quarters of an inch in diameter. They may be had in July and August, and the best time for pick- ling them is about the end of August, or the beginning of September. Like other pickles, their excellence depends, in a great measui-e, on their being kept covered with vinegar. A mixtuie of French beans and gherkins makes a nice pickle. Gherkins, Pickled.- Put the gherkins into a large stone jar, and cover them with brine strong enough to caiTy an egg. Place the cover on the jar, and leave it for two or three days, until the gherkins begin to turn yellow; then drain them, and pom* boiling vinegar over them. Put bay-leaves on the top, keep the jar in a warm place, and heat the vinegar afresh everj' day, till the gherkins turn as gi-een as you wish. Boil fresh Ainegar, and with it one large blade of mace, two ounces of whole pepper, four bay-leaves, and half a dozen small silver onions to each quart. Put the gherkins into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the Annegar over them, first allowing it to cool a little, or it wiU crack the bottles, and cork securely when cold. Time, from a week to a fortnight. Probable cost, Is. per pint bottle. If the vinegar be boiled in a copper saucepan, it will make the gherkins a beautiful colour, but poisonous. Gherkins, Pickled (French method).— Throw the gherkins into a saucepan of boiling water, let them boil one minute, then take them out, and throw them at once into plenty of cold water; change the water once or twice, and when the gherkins are quite cold, spread them on sieves to dry. Put them into a large bowl, and pour over them as much boiling vinegar as will completely cover them. Let them stand in this for twenty-four hours, and repeat the process for three days. The last time, boil in the vinegar one oimce of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a few sprigs of tan-agon, a large blade of mace, and four bay-leaves, with every quart of liquid. Put the gherkins into the boiling vinegar, let them remain fur two minutos, thon plflcc them in wide-mouthed