HAM HAI. ( 298 ) afterwards added to the rest. Let it boil, and put with it a quai-ter of a pint of good cream or new milk. Stew the slices of lish until they ai-e tendei", pile them on a hot dish, let the Siiuce boil, and pour it hot ov* them. Serve with a border of rice roimd the dish. Time, altogether, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Halibut Cutlets—Put the haHbut, before cutting it into slices, into a dish, strew a little salt over it, and three-parts fill the dish with -water. It must not be deep enough to touch the salt. When the fish has been soaking about an hour, take it out, dry it, and cut it into slices, not more than half an inch thick. Make a thin batter of flour and water, dip the slices of fish in this, and afterwards put them into the frying-pan, with hot fat. When one side is browned, turn over with a slice upon the other. Drain the cutlets on blotting-paper, dish on a napkin, and serve with anchovy, shrimp, or any other fish sauce that may be preferred. Halibut cutlets are -very good with nothing but a lemon squeezed over them. A few bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt only may be strewn over them before frying. Time, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient, four pounds for six or seven persons. Halibut Pie.—Take four pounds of fresh halibut (the middle of the fish is the best for this purpose), season it with "salt, pepper, cayenne, and powdered mace. Take ofl: the skin, cut the flesh into thick slices, and put these into a pie-dish, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, broken into pieces, and two table- spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, and cover with a good crust. Bake in a good oven for one hour or more. Sufficient for six or seven per- sons. Probable cost of halibut, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Halibut, Stewed.—Put the head and shoulders of a halibut, weighing about five pounds, into a saucepan, with just as much beer as will barely cover it. Add an onion stuck with two cloves, a sprig of parsley, a tea-spoonful and a half of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and two ounces of butter rolled in flour. Let the fish stew gently until tender, it which will be in about half an hour. Take it out carefully, drain it, and thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice, and a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let it boil, and pour a little in the dish with the fish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per poimd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Ham, Baked.—A baked ham is much more delicious than a boiled one, and will keep better. Put a ham into plenty of cold water for some hours. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours will bo necossfiry ; for an ordinary York ham from eight to twelve hours is sufficient. "Wash it after soaking in lukewarm water, trim it neatly, and cut away aUthe rusty smoked parts. Cover it with a coarse paste made of flour and water, and take care to leave no loophole through which the gravy can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, liomovo the paste and skin while the ham is still hot, cover it with rasp- ings, and brown it before the fire. Time, according to the size. A very small ham wiU require fully three hours, and a large one five. The rule is to allow twenty-eight minutes to every pound up to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an hour for every pound beyond it. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Baked (another way).—Soak and prepare the ham as in the last recipe. Put it in warm water for at least an hour, then lay it in a deep pie-dish, with a quarter of a pint of nicely-flavoured stock. Cover it with oiled paper, and afterwards place a good thick coarse crust over it, as in the case of a meat pie. Add a little more stock, if required. Bake in a moderate oven from three to five hours, ac- cording to size. The rule is to allow twenty- eight minutes to every pound up to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an hour for every pound beyond that weight. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Baked (German method).—Soak, wash, and cut ofl: the skin and discoloured parts of a ham. Strew over it as evenly as possible a powder made by mixing together a table-spoon- ful of powdered sage, with a dozen pounded cloves, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper. Cover it all over with a coarse paste at least an inch thick, and fasten it sectirely, to prevent the juice escaping. Bake in a moderate oven, £ind let the heat be sustained until the last. Take off the paste while the ham is still hot, and glaze or garnish as usual. Time, three to five hours, according to size. The rule is to allow twenty-eight minutes to ever)'' pound up; to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an houi- for every pound beyond that weight. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Beef {see Beef Hams). Ham, Boiled.—Soak the ham in several waters. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours or more will be required, if not, from eight to twelve hours will suffice. Lukewarm water will soften it more quickly than cold. Scrub it well, and scrape off the rusty, dis- coloured parts, but do not cut the skin if it can be avoided. Put it into the kettle with plenty of cold water. If a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three carrots, and a bay-leaf are added, the flavour will be improved. Let it be brought to a boil very slowly, skim it carefully, and simmer very gently until suffi- ciently cooked. If it is not intended to be kept any length of time and still not to be cut until cold, it may be left in the water for an hour after it is done enough: this wiU improve the taste of the ham, but it will renuer it less Hkely to keep. Lift it out by the knuckle to avoid sticking a fork into it. Take off the skin, strew over it some browned crtimbs of broad, roU a frill of white paper round the knuckle, and send it to table on a dry, warm dish. If the ham is to be glazed, the bread-raspings must be omitted. Preserve the skin, and place it over tho ham when it is put into tho larder, as it will keep in the moisture. Time, for a new