( 408 ) MAB MAB floiir. Mix an ounce of powdered sugar and the HJiuio woiH;ht of rico-flour, luld tlioiu to thci butter iiad Hour, and nioistuu to a paste with two woU-beaten egga. Work the mixture well, lino the tin mould, put the mixture in, aud bake. Time, without paate, twenty miuutoH; i with paste, one liour or more. Hufficient for j foiu" or five persons. j Marchpane (a German recipe).—Put into ' an enamelled saucepan half a pound of sweet and half an ouiieo of bitter almonds, bhinehed and pounded, with half a pound of sifted sugar. Stir well over a gentle heat until tlmy form a smooth paste, as stiff as is required for rolling } out. Place the paste on a marble slab, pre- viously covered with sifted sugar, Icnead it lightly into a ball, and let it stand till cool. This delicious paste, when rolled out thin, may be either cut into pretty and fanciful biscuits with tin cutters, or made into a large round sandwich, with api'icot or raspberry jam between two layers of the almond paste. Bake to a pale yeUow in a moderate oven. To prevent the almonds oiling, add, while pounding, a few drops of orange-water. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Marigold or Pot Marigold.—This is an annual plant, known in this country since 1573, but a native of France and Spain. It is often met with in cottage gardens, and in some parts of England the flowers are used in broths and soups. The marigold comes into flower in May or June, and continues flowering in plenti- ful succession all summer and autumn. A store for winter should be gathered when in full flower, spread out in the sun to dry, and then put carefully into paper bags. Marinade. — A marinade is a sort of flavoured pickle in wbich fish and meat are soaked for a while before being cooked. Some- times the liquor and seasoning are boiled togetber, and allowed to go cold before being used. The marinade can then be employed asjain and again, if it be boiled occasionally. When a small quantity only is required, the marinade is used raw. Cooked Marinade.— Fry two onions, two carrots, two bay-leaves, three shallots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a clove of garlic in three ounces of butter. Pour on one quart of water, and one quart of vinegar, and boil for throe minutes. Add pepper and salt, and store for use. Raw Marinade (for small portions of food, such as fillets of fish, and slices of poultry).—Put a faggot with a little pepper and salt into a dish; pour on it a gill of vinegar and a table-spoonful of oil. If liked, onion may be used instead of or as well as herbs. Marinade for Pish, Economical.- An excellent and economical nuirinade that will serve for several occasions, if boiled, skimmed, and bottled closely after tise. Brown together in a stewpan, wiin a lump of butter, two middle-sized onions, two shallots, a small bit of garlic, and a carrot, all minced, find simmer for two or three hours over a slow fire with a jiint and a half of cheap claret or Bintish wine : add B bunch of Ewset herbs, parsley, two or three . cloves, a dozen Jamaica peppera (lioth pounded), salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Strain for uscj. Fish to be broiled or fried should l>e kid in a marinade of oil and nnm-MH sweet herbs. Sullicient for one pint. Marjoram.—Four ditterent species of mar. jorani anj cultivated—pot, sweet, winter, and commou. All—but chiefly the first three—are aromati(;s, of sweet flavour, and nmch employed as relishing herbs in soups, broths, stuHings, 4:c. The common marjoram is only used in cookery when tlie othcirs are not at liand. The propa- gation of sweet marioram or knotted marjoram is by means of seed; a little should be sfjwn every spring. Pot marioram is readily projjji- gated by cuttings, and is liai-dy enough to endure our winters. For winter sweet mar- joram, a sheltered border and a dry soil are required. It is a perennial pbint, and is pro- piigated by parting the roots in autumn. For winter use, both kinds of sweet marjoram should be slowly dried in the shade, and after- wards hung in a diy place. Marketing, Rules for.—Some sensible observations on this head ai-e given in AVebster and Parke's " Encyclopasdia of Domestic Eco- nomy." In marketing, say these writers, the first rule is to pui'chase chiefly from known and respectable tradespeople, who are likely to go themselves to tbe best markets, and who have to support the character of their shops. The second rule to be observed is that of not pur- chasing inferior articles imder the idea of being economical. A bargain is seldom a prize ; and this is especially the case in regard to butcher's- meat. 'The best meat and the prime joints are unquestionably the cheapest in the end, al- though the first cost may be the greatest. In coarse and inferior joints there is always too great a proportion of gristle, bone, and hard meat, to render them truly economical; these may serve as the basis of soups, gravies, or stews; but for roasting or boiling they are wasteful. The criterion of bad meat—by which must be imderstood meat that has been too long killed, or meat from animals killed in a state of disease—ought to be well known, by those who market, no less than the value and economy of the different parts and joints. Marlborough Pudding.—Warm two ounces of fresh butter, and wl^c n soft, without being thoroughly melted, stir until it resembles cream; add two ounces of powdered or sifted sugar, and two well-beaten eggs, and mix all together. When done, line a small pie-dish with puff paste, placing a border also roimd the edge; cover the bottom with a layer of apricot or strawberry jam; poiu- in the mixture, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Wo would suggest, that instead of the dish being lined with pufi' paste, a few thin slices of spongo- oako should be substituted, as the paste is likely to be sodden and indigestible. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three persons. Marmalade is a half-liquid preserve, made by boiling the pnlj) of thickly-nnded fruits—oranges, i>ine-a])i)les, quinces, &:c., with portions of the rind Recipes for making the