CAL OAL ( 98 ) tongue, skin it, trim it uboirt the roots, and lay it in tht! middlo of a hot dish with tho brain aauce round it; kot^p it hot. Tho appearance of the calf's head will bo improved if after it is taken up it is brushed over with egg, covered with finely-grated broad-crumbs, and browned. Slices of cut lemon are usually placed round tho dish. A little boiled bacon or pickled pork is sent to table with it, as well as either parsley and butter, tomato or nmshroom sauce, in a tureen. Time to boil, with the skin on, two and a half or three houi-s, according to the size; without, one and a half or two houi-s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. The liquor in which it is boiled should be carefully preserved; for though a calf's head is insipid if eaten cold, it is excellent warmed, and for this the liquor would be needed. Calf's Head Brawn. — Take half a large c;ilf's head with the skin on. "Wash it well, take out the brains and the soft bone, and lay it in a pickle made of one pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, half a pound of moist sugar, and one 'ounce of saltpetre, boiled in three quarts of water for twenty minutes, skimmed, and put aside until cold. Let it stand in this for eight days, turning it every day. Take it out, wash it well, and boil it gently until tender. Eemove the bones, and put the meat while hot into a brawn-tin, flavouring it with salt, pepper, pounded mlace, and a little cayenne. Put a heavy weight on it, and let it stand until firm. Turn it out and garnish with parsley. Time, three or four hours. Sufficient for six or seven persons. * Cairs Head Cheese.—Take the re- mains of a cold calf's head, remove the bones, and chop all the meat—lean, fat, sldn, and tongue—^into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with a little salt and pepper, the rind half a fresh lemon, a little powdered cin- namon, and all the hrain-sauce that is left. Cover the whole barely with some of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and simmer it gently, stirring it every now and then, for twenty minutes. Remove the rind, and put the rest into a mould which has been soaked in cold water; put a plate and weight over it, and when it is cold, turn out. It wiU make a nice breakfast or supper dish, or can be used for sandwiches. Probable cost, 2d., without the cold meat, &c. Sufficient, a small mould for a breakfast dish. Calfs Head, Collared (to serve cold). —Take a calf's head, properly prepared, re- move the brains, and put it into boiling water for a quarter of an hour to blanch it; wash it thoroughly, put it into cold water, and boU it until the bones can be removed. Bone and lay it flat on the table, and sprinkle over it, in alternate layers, six table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, some ground pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pink ham cut into slices, and the yolks of six eggs boiled hard, sliced, and dotted here and there. RoU the head as tightly as possible, tie it in a cloth, and hoil it gently for four hours. Take it out, drain, and put it under a weight, and do not remove the cloth and bandages until it is cold. Calfs Head, Collared (to serve hot). —Take a calf's liead, jiroperly prepared, blanch and boil it until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones. When they are taken out, lay the head on the table, and spread on it a forcemeat made of tho bi "ain, the tongue, and some of tho meat cut from where it is thickest, mixed with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, a tea-spoonful of nuir- joram, the pounded yolks of thi-eo eggs boiled hard, two spoonfuls of brandy, and a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg. lioU the head as tightly as possible, and tie it in a cloth, binding it with tape. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover it, and add a carrot, a parsnip, two or three onions, some slices of lemon, a little thyme, four bay-leaves, and salt and peijper. Let it boil gently for three hours, then take it out of tho cloth, and pour round it a sauce made of a pint of the liquid in which it was boiled, mixed with a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a table-spoonful of chopped gherkins, and a little lemon-juice. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Calf's Head Collops. — Cut a cold calf's head into small neat slices about the third of an inch in thickness. Strew over these a large dessert-spoonful of minced parsley and a little salt and cayenne. Make some good thick batter, dip each piece of meat into it, and fry it in boiling butter or oil until nicely browned. Serve the collops very hot, piled high in a dish, and accompanied with lemon- juice and cayenne. Time to fry, ten minutes. . Probable cost, 6d., without the cold meat. Sufficient, allow two or three collops for each person. Calf's Head, Curried.—Cut up the remains of a calf's head into pieces about an inch square, and lay them on one side. Put a piece of butter about the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then slice into it two large onions, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides; take them out, and stir a dessert-spoonful of ciirry powder gradually and smoothly into the butter, and afterwards a small cupful of good stock. "VVhen the sauce is quite smooth, add the cold calf's head and onions; let the mixture boU ten minutes, and just at the last squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put it into the centre of a dish, with a border of rice roimd it, boiled as for other curries. If necessary, a little more stock may be added, but curries should not be watery. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Calf's Head, Dappled.—Boil a calf's head until the bones come out easily; take them out, and lay the flesh on a dish, with another dish over it, and a weight on that, so that the head may be oval and flat. When cold, divide it into halves. Brush it over with well- beaten eggs, and over one half strew finely- grated bread-crumbs mixed with salt and cayenne, and over tho other, finely-grated bread-crumbs with an equal quantity of finely- chopped parsley and sage. Bake it in a good oven until it is lightly browned, basting it fre- quently with a little stock. Serve it on £\ hot