MtJT (441 ) minced fine. Stew those in the butter for a few minutes, and soiison with salt and more pepper, if necessary. Thicken, skim, and servo round the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton (a la Portugaise).—Cut and trim some neat cutlets from the best end of the neck, the bone to be cut short and the top scraped clean. Season with pepper and salt, and strew over them chopped parsley and shallot. Fry them slightly, adding a couple of bay- leaves and a small bit of garUc about the size of a pea. Take the cutlets out, and wrap each one in a buttered paper, covering the paper and cutlet Avith forcemeat. Broil them on a grid- iron over a slow even tire. Make a gravy in the frying-pan, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, a small tea-spoonful of anchovy-sauce, with salt tind pepper. Pour it round the cutlets, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to fry; eight minutes to broil. Sufficient, two potmds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la Proventjale).— Saw off the upper rib-bones from a neck of mutton, also the chine-bone, and divide the meat into neat cutlets, leaving only three inches of bone to each of them. Trim off all superfluous fat, season with pepper and salt, and fry lightly in a stewpan with an ounce of good fresh butter. Make a seasoning as follows :—Stew over a slow fire, and in a closed stewpan, ten middle-sized onions chopped fine, and a small bit of garlic. Of the latter, take only enough to flavour, with- out giving any colour to the butter. When tender, add pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, with the yolks of four raw eggs. Stir until the seasoning has become a thick paste; then, with a knife, spread it equally and thickly over the upper side of the cutlets, brush over with beaten egg, and cover with grated Parmesan and fried bread-crumbs. Bake the cutlets with a little good gravy to keep them from sticking to the pan. Wben done, serve them in a circle round a dish, and fill the centre -with potatoes cut to an olive shape or in round balls, and pre- viously fried in butter. A good gravy round the dish. Time, ten minutes to bake. Suffi- cient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la Soubise).—Cutlets may be taken from the leg if lean cutlets are preferred, but the neck or loin may be ad- vantageously used, when the chops should be cut two bones thick, but removing one of them and also the chine-bone. About four inches is a good length for the cutlet. If cut from the leg, lard with bacon and tongue. (See Lard, To.) Stew the cutlets in good well-seasoned veal or chicken stock sufficient to cover them, and when done press them between two dishes to flatten, then drain them. In the meantime prepare the Soubise sauce. First peel and blanch eight onions, slice them into a stewpan with more of the stock, and simmer them gently, without allowing them to got colour, until they are nearly dissolved, then add a similar quantity of bechamel sauce, and strain through a fine hair- sieve. Put the cutlets into this puree to warm up, and sei-vo with croustadcs or more onions, prepared as before, but not crushed. The cut- lets may also be served with French beans, or any vegetable without a marked flavour of its own. Time, until tender, about three- qutu-ters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufficient, two cutlets for each person. Mutton Cutlets and Mashed Pota- toes.—Proceed as directed for mutton cutlets with tomato puree {see Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Puree), or the cutlets may be broiled. Have ready boiled two pounds of mealy potatoes. Beat them to a smooth paste with, two ounces of butter, a wine-glassful of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Place them in the centre of the dish with the cutlets, meat- side downwards, roimd the potatoes. Time, cutlets, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, with two pounds of mutton, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets and Pur^e of Po- tatoes.—Boil or steam two poimds of mealy potatoes, mash them with a wooden spoon, or press them thi-ough a sieve, but they must be smooth. Put them into a stewpan with two or thi'ee ounces of butter, two or three table- spoonfuls of cream or broth, pepper and salt. Make them hot, and pile them in the centre of a hot dish. The cutlets may be bread-crumbed and fried, or, if preferred, broiled and served round the puree. Time, an hoiu' to prepare. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton Cutlets (au naturel).—These cutlets may be taken either from the leg or from the ribs. If from the ribs, cut off all superfluous fat, and when well trimmed dip each one into clai'itied butter, cover with bread- crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and broil just long enough to heat them thi-ough; then dip them again into the butter, to be again bread-crumbed, and the cooking completed. Lay them before the fire on white paper, and press slightly with another paper over them. Serve with a sauce as follows :—Stew in half a pint of brown gravy a handful of button mushrooms chopped, a sprig of parsley, half a bay-leaf, and the same of shallot shi-ed finely; thicken with butter rolled in flour : take out the bay- leaf, and add more salt and pepper if required. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton Cutlets, Italian.—Trim cutlets from the neck of mutton into good shape; if not even, beat them to make them so. Cut off all superfluous fat. Lay them for a few minutes in a marinade of salad-oil and minced savoury herbs, or, if preferred, dip them in clarified butter, and again into beaten egg. Cover them with a seasoning as follows: — Chop extremely fine some button mushrooms, or if these cannot be procured use mushroom powder. Prepare bread-crumbs, parsley, and savouiy herbs (of each a table-spoonful), and reduce them to powder; shred a shallot, and mince half a tea-spoonfid of lemon-peel. Put these ingi-edients with a little pounded mace into a basin, and when mixed use for the cutlets, and fry a nice light colour in butter. Make a good gravy in the pan by browning a little more butter with a dessert-spoonful or more of floui-, moisten with a large cup of veal