IND ( 324 ) IMP Imperial Gingerbread (another way). —Giiigorbri'tid, Tniporiiil. Imperial Punch, Cold.—Cut a pino- applo into vory thin hlicnH, and alim u\m four closoly-poolud China orangoa, loaving nonti ol' tho whito pith attached to the orange-sliiioB. I'ut tlio slices into a bowl. Extract the flavour from an inch length of vanilla, and a pioce of cinnamon, about a drachm in weif^lit, by heating them in a quai't of water with the peel of a ISovillo orange. Ivub oif tho rind of a lenion on a lump or two of sugar, and squeeze the j uiae from four lomo.ns into the bowl, adding tho sugar with more leraon-juico to make half a pound, then strain in the vanilla liquid, and cover to get cold. When quite cold mix a bottle each of rum, hock, and champagne, with a pint of seltzer water. Stir well, and serve in champagne glasses, cold. Imperial Schmarn.—Separate the yolks from the whites of livo eggs, whisk the yolks with a pint of cream, and froth the whites, which will be required when all the other ingre- dients are mixed. Add to the yolks four ounces of fine flour—made sweet with a table- spoonful of double-refined sugar—an ounce of sultana raisins, the same of blanched almonds, chopped, and, lastly, the frothed whites, which should be stirred in gently with the rest. Have ready hot, in a clean stewpan, two ounces of butter, pour in the schmarn or batter, let the fire be brisk, and allow it to colour well, but not to burn; then with an iron spatula, or fork, tear the schmarn lightly apart, and allow it to set and brown again, when the same crumbling or tearing process is to be repeated; and when it has encrusted a second time, break it up smaller, and serve without delay, with pounded sugar and vanilla mixed together strewn over the top. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Iniperial Soup.—To a gill of clear well- flavoured stock mix three beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper. Stir the liquid, and put it in a buttered basin or mould. Cover with greased paper, that no water may enter, and steam the custard gently till set. When cool turn it out, cut it iuto thin slices, and divide these into small diamonds or squares. Serve in a tureen of clear soup. Probable cost, 6d. Sufiicient for two quarts of soup, and eight or ten persons. Imperials.—Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it well into a pound of dried flour, and eight ounces of sifted sugar. Cut two ounces of candied orange-peel into bits, and grate the rind of a small lemon. Add gradually half a pound of currants which have been washed, stoned, and dried perfectly. Moisten with four well-beaten eggs, and bake to a pale brown in a gentle oven on a floured tin plate, in the form of little heaps, which is best done by placing the paste with two forks as roughly as po>-5iblc, and at uniform distances upon the plate. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Indian Bread and Meat, or Koobbe. —This is a dish frequently met with in India and Australia, and particularly suitable for c.unping or picnics, as it docs not require many pots and panB. An ordinary bread dough h rolled out to any tliiokness (the thicker the better), a piece of meat, a lino goose, duck, or fowl ia enveloped in it, and boiled or baked as may be most convenient. Poultry with apjjropriate sauces may bo cooked thus with little trouble, except tho caution which must uecessiiiily be observed, to keep the stufliug well secured before the Ijirds are jmt into the dough. Indian Burdwan.—A very savoury and higlily-approvod Indian dish. The joints of a parboiled fowl are generally used for this dish, but if necessary the remains of chicken or fowls that hitve been served before, and even rabbit, veal, or lamb may be warmed up in tho sauce, for which the following is the recipe :— Peel and chop very finely four shaUots and an onion. Put them into a stewpan with a small cup of good stock, a table-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, a little cayenne, and an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir over the fire until the sauce is ready to boil, then put it aside to sim- mer till the onions are done, adding a small cupful of mi.xcd Indian pickles, cut into less than haK-inch pieces, a table-spoonful of chili vinegar, and one or two glasses of wine, Madeira or sherry. Simmer the sauce to make the pickles tender, and pour in the wine when the fowl is ready to be stewed. Skin and lay the fowl in neat pieces into the stewpan with the sauce, and if the fowl has been only parboiled, stew it gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, but for a thoroughly cooked fowl serve as soon as it is ready to boil, with the juice of a fresh lime. Rice is sometimes served with Burdwan as with curry. Indian Burdwan (another way).—Set Bui'dwan, Indian. Indian Chutney.—Boil together a pint of good vinegar with half a pound of sour, unripe apples, peeled, cored, and quartered. When pulped and cool, add, first pounding them separately in a mortar and afterwards together, the following ingredients:—Four oimces of stoned raisins, eight ounces of brown sugar, two ounces of garlic, and two ounces of mus- tard-seed ; mix these well with two ounces of powdered ginger, the same of salt, and one ounce of cayenne. Put the mixture into an earthenware jar, and set the jar in a warm comer by the fire until next morning, when the chutney may be put into small jars and tied down. It wiU keep good a year or two. Time to stew apples, until soft. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Indian Corn-flour Bread.—Take In- dian maize and fine whoaten flour in the pro- portions of two pounds of the former to four pounds of the latter. Mix in an earthen pan, with a little salt to flavour, and two table- spoonfuls of yeast stirred into half a pint of warm water. Put the yeast into it, after making a hol- low in the centre, and make a batter of the sur- rounding flour, which must be-covered lightly with flour and with a warm wooUcn cloth, and placed before the fire to rise for an hour or more. "WTicn well risen, knead the flour into a smooth dough with as much more warm water as will be neccssarj-, and then make it into