( 380 ) LIE LEV tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce; add half a blnde of mace, a toa-spoonful of salt, a dmchm of cayonno, and a bay-loaf. Simmer gently for half an hour, then add half a pint of good hro\vi\ sauce and a glass of white wine. Boil 8(>ntly, and skim carefully until all the fat has been removed, then strain the sauce, put it back into the sto\\^an, and let it boil for a few minutes. Put in the pieces of cold leveret, and servo when thoy are quite hot. The sauce must not boil after the leveret is added. Time, an hour and a half. Probable co^, exclusive of the wine, lOd. Sufficient for four or six persons. Leveret Puree.—Take the remains of cold roast or braised leveret. Cut the meat off the bones, remove the skin and sinews, chop it small, and pound it in a mortar. Add gradually, whilst pounding, the remains of the sauce, and press all together through a hair sieve. Like other purees, this may be used for garnishing patties, or it may be made hot with a little re- duced stock and seasoning, and served with mashed potatoes. Time, about an hour to prepare. Leveret, Roasted.—Leverets may be used when hares are out of season; they should be trussed in the same way, and may be stuffed or not (with hare stuffing), according to preference. A leveret is best when larded, but if this cannot be done, cover it either with thin slices of fat bacon or with a thickly-buttered piece of white paper. Eoast it before a brisk £G:e, and baste it constantly, and a few minutes before it is taken do^n remove the bacon or paper, dredge ii little flour over it, and froth it nicely. Serve it very hot, and send red currant jelly to table with it as well as the following gravy, a little of which may be put in the dish and the rest in a tureen:—Thicken half a pint of stock with a bmall piece of butter rolled in. flour, let it boil for about ten minutes, then stir a wine-glassful of port into it, boil up once more, and serve. Time, an hour to roast the leveret. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 4s. Liaisons.—The various methods _ for thickening sauces and soups are called liaisons. Those most frequently used are composed of flour, ground rice, arrowroot, roux, eggs, and milk. Flour, groimd rice, and arrowroot should be mixed very smoothly, first with a little cold liquid, and afterwards with some of the hot liquid. The mixture should then be strained, and poured with one hand into the sauce or soup which should be at the same time well stirred with the other hand. The soup must be boiled after this preparation is added. Liaison of egg is composed of the yolks of eggs only. _ The liquid shoiild always be cooled for a minute before this haison is added. The yolks must be well beaten, then mixed with a little of the liquid, and gradually added to the rest, and all f.tirred together over the fire xmtil quite hot. If allowed to boil, however, after the egg is added, the liquid will curdle. Two or three spoonfuls of milk or cream are sometimes added to the egg. For liaison of roux, see Roux, Brown and ^Vhitc. A' liaison of butter is used to enrich rather than to thicken sauces. It should bo stirred in cold I " ■ at the last moment, and on no account allowed to boil. Lieblg's Extract of Meat. — This valuable ])riparatioii, wlii« li is sold as the pure essence of meat, is so wholesome, stimulating, and economical, that it can scircely be too higldy spoken of. It has again and again been of the highest service in cases of extreme jjros- tration, thus proving its sustaining qualities; and those who have been accustomed to use it as a partial substitute for fresli meat in making soups and sauces will be able to speak of the saving they have thus efi'ected. Care should be taken in preparing it to use boiling water, and a liberal allowance of salt, and also (when it is intended for invalids) to make it rather weak at first, until the patient has become accustomed to its peculiar flavour. It should be understood, however, that the extract of meat, although it is stimulating and sustianing, contains a small proportion only of real nourishment. This should be borne in mind in making soups and sauces. Generally speaking, a mixture of meat and extract will be found to be more satisfactorj' than if the extract is used alone. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for two ounces. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Beef Tea from.--Dissolve a tea-spoonful of Liebig's ex- tract in half a piut of water, stir it until dissolved, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and serve imme- diately. Time, two or three minutes. Probable cost, l^d. Sufficient for haK a pint of beef tea. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Cheap and Nourishing Soup made from.— Buy two peimyworth of fresh bones, wash them well, break them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with four quarts of cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, remove the scimi as it rises, and simmer very gently for five hours. Two large onions stuck with two cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a bunch of parsley, and half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celery should be boiled with it for the last hour and a half, and if it is wished to thicken the soup, two table-spoonfuls of sago, rice, or tapioca may be put in as well. Strain the soup, and add, whilst boiling hot, two table-spoonfuls of Liebig's extract of meat. Add salt and pepper to taste, and ser^-e very hot. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Liebig's Extract of Meat, Gravy from {sec Gravy from Liebig's Extract, &c.). Liebig's Sandwiches.—Very appetising and nutritious sandwiches may be made for travellers or invalids from Liebig's extract of meat. Cut two sHces of thin bread and butter, remove the crust, and spread a little of the extract very thinly over one of the pieces, with a little mustard, press the other slice of bread and butter upon it, and cut it into neat pieces. Time, five minutes to prepare. Liebig's Soup for Children.—Put a table-spoonful of flour into a bowl, with a table- spoonful of finely-groimd malt and seven grains and a quarter of bicarbonate of potash. Mix these ingredients smoothlv with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, then add gradually, stirring all the time, ten table-spoonfuls of new milk. Put the