( 129 ) CHI CHI firm, and trim them neatly to the shape of cutlets. Brush them with oil or butter, dip thorn in egg and bread-crumb them twice. Fry the prepared cutlets in hot butter or lard till they are nicely browned; turn them two or three times that they may be equally cooked. Place them in a circle on a hot dish, pour Bechamel round them, and, as a garnish, place dressed vegetables in the centre of the cutlets. Sufficient for a medium-sized dish. Probable coat, 23. 6d. each chicken. Chicken Cutlets (another way).—Take two large cliickens, which have been gently stewed until done, then pressed between two dishes until cold. Eemove the flesh of the breast and wing on either side of the bone, thus making four fillets. Then take the meat under the wings, and any nice pieces you can find, and flatten them into the shape and size of the first; dij) these cutlets into beaten egg, and strew over them bread-crumbs nuxed with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Make some good Bechamel {see Bechamel), and keep it hot. Cut as many sippets of bread as there are cut- lets, make them all of the same shape and size, and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned. Place them on a hot dish, fry the cutlets, and place one upon each sippet. Pour the gravy round, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cutlets. Allow one cutlet for each person. Probable cost, exclusive of the chicken, 8d. Chicken Cutlets (French method). — Take the remains of one or two cold chickens. Cut them into neat joints, strew over them a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, dip them into clarified butter, then into egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs and finely-minced parsley. Fry them lightly in hot butter or dripping. Put a puree of sorrel or spinach in the middle of the dish, place the cutlets round it, and grate a little Pannesan cheese over them. Send good gravy made of the bones and trimmings to table in a tureen. Time, five or six minutes to fry the cutlets. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. Chicken, Devilled.—The best parts of chicken for a devU are the wings and legs. Remove the skin, score the flesh deeply in several places, and rub in a fiery mixture made of salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, anchovy, and butter. This business should be done overnight. Broil over a clear fire, and serve the fowl hot on a napkin. No sauce is required. Time, ten or twelve minutes to broil- Chicken (en Matelote) .—Cut a fine chicken into neat joints. Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, and when it is hot fry the pieces of chicken in it till they are lightly browned, then lift them out and put them aside until wanted. Fry in the butter SIX small onions sliced, a large carrot cut into quarters, a parsnip also quartered, and a dozen small mushrooms. Pour over these sufficient stock to cover them, add some savoury herbs, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper, and simmer F all gently together untU the sauce _ is richly flavoured. Strain it and thicken it with a little brown thickening, pour into it a glass of claret, and simmer it gently until it is smooth and thick. Put in the chicken, mix with the hash the liver of the chicken pounded, a boned anchovy and half a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Simmer a quarter of an hour longer and serve. Time, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken, Fricasseed.—Choose a fresh, tender chicken. Draw, singe, and skin it, then cut it into neat joints. Soak these joints in cold water for fifteen minutes, drain them, and put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of savouiy herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and enough water to cover them. Bring the liquid to a boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer very gently for half an hour, or until the meat is sufficiently cooked. When this point is reached, further boiling -will spoil the flavour. Put two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, and a dessert-spoonful of mush- room powder into a stewpan. Stir the mixture about until it is quite smooth, but do not let it brown; add, gradually, a pint and a half of the liquor in which the chicken was boiled, and simmer gently for half an hour. Put the pieces of chicken into a saucepan with a little of the sauce, and let them warm gently. Thicken the remainder of the sauce with the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut; di-aw the sauce from the fire before adding them, mix a little of it with them first, then pour the mixture into the remainder. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Put the chicken into a dish, pour the sauce over, and take stewed mushrooms to table on a separate dish. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost of chicken, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken, Fricasseed (another way).— Take the remains of a cold chicken; cut it into neat joints. Make some good gravy by simmering the tiimmings in some good stock, with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer for about an hour. Strain the gravy; take a breakfast-cupful of it, and thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour; let this boil, then put in the chicken. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two, and mix a little of the sauce with the yolks of two eggs and a cupful of cream; pour the mix- ture into the saucepan, let it get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow it to boU, or the eggs will curdle. Serve with the sauce poured over the chicken. Time, one hour and a half. Proba,ble cost, 9d., exclusive of the cold chicken.' Sufficient for three or four persons. Chicken, Fried.-Take the remains of a cold chicken, cut it into neat joints, salt and pepper these rather highly, and strew over them finely-chopped onion and parsley. Cover them with oU, and squeeze over them the juice of a lemon. Turn the pieces every now and then, and let them remain until they have imbibed the flavour, then dip the pieces in flour, and