GUN ( ^64 ) GIN cakos. Keep closely covered in a tin box. These cakes are good for assisting digestion. Gingerbread, Almond. — Mix one ounce of ground gingur witli a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and three-quarters of a pound of best Horn-. Put into a jar one pound of treacle, half a pound of sugar, half a i)ound of fresh butter, the thinly-poelod rind of two lemons, cut into thin slices, and six ounces of swfot almonds, with four or five bitter ones, pounded in a mortar, with a few drops of water, to prevent oiling. Place the jar neai' the fire, and when the butter is melted, pour all into the flour. Beat till quite Ught, and bake in a quick oven, on a buttered tin for thirty minutes, if made in small cakes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 8d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, American.—Mix well together a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, half a nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-rind, three pounds and a half of floui-, a pound of chopped raisins, and a pound of cunants, an ounce of carbonate of soda, and two ounces of chopped candied peel. Wai-m a pound of treacle; stir into it three- quarters of a pound of butter, and six eggs. Beat the whole, until thoroughly mixed, with a cupful of milk. Pour it in a well-oiled dish, or shallow tin, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Gingerbread, Cocoa-nut.—Proceed in the same way as dii-ccted for Almond Ginger- bread {see Gingerbread, Almond), substituting rasped cocoa-nut for pounded almonds. Gingerbread, Fanny's.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a jar with half a pound of treacle, and place the jar near the fire till the butter is melted. Jtlix well, adding one table-spoonful of oatmeal, half an ounce of sifted ginger, the rind of a lemon, cut into thin slices, and as much flour as ^vill make a stiff firm batter. Pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufl5.cient for a pint mould. Gingerbread Fingers, American.— Warm half a pound of best treacle. Stir into it a piece of butter the size of an egg, and four table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Take a little powdered allspice, a heaped tea-spoonful of ground ginger, the rind of a lemon chopped fine, and a pound of the best flour. Mix all the dry ingredients together, and stir the treacle and butter into them. Last of all, dissolve an ounce of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of wai-m cream, and put it with the rest. Work all well together for some time. Roll the mixture out to the thickness of half an inch. Di\'ide it into " fingers," and put at once on well-oiled tins, in a moderate oven. Put the fingers in a dry place, not exposed to the air, and thoy -will be the better for a month's keeping. Time to bake, an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Gingerbread, Flemish. — Warm one pound of treacle in a bowl before the fire, and stir into it six ounces of butter. When dis- solved, beat in as much flour, with two table- spionfuN nf oatmeal and half an ounce of pow- liert^d ginger, as will form .a stiff firm batter. Beat it till smooth, and add two ounces of can- died lemon sliced as thin as possible. Butter some moulds, and bake in a quick oven for nearly an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. , GiJigerbread, French Gateau d Epice). Gingerbread, German. — Melt one pound of honey in a saucepan ; and when it ifl quite hot, mix with it six ounces of moist sugar, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, two ounces of candied lemon, cut into thin slices, four ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and sliced, and sufficient flour to make it into a stiff paste. Roll the paste out two or three times, so as to have it quite smooth and stifl:; make it into cakes of any shape or size, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and bake on buttered tins in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Probable cost, is. 8d. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Honeycomb.—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a jar, near the fire, with half a pound of treacle, and half a poimd of moist sugar. Mix half a pound of flour with one table-spoonful of ground ginger, the finely-chopped rind and juice of half a large lemon, and one tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. When the butter is melted, mix it -with the treacle, &c., into the flour, and beat all together for some minutes. Spread the mix- ture very thinly upon buttered baking-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Watch it par- ticularly, and as soon as the gingerbreaxl is done enough, take it out, cut it into squares, and curl each square round the finger. Keep closely covered in a tin box. This ginger- bread will keep three or four weeks, but is best when newly made. Should it lose its crispness, it should be put into the oven for two or three minutes before being used. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Hunters'.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream; add one pound and a half of flour, three ounces of moist sugar, one ounce of sifted sugar, one ounce of candied peel, cut into thin strips, two or three drops of essence of lemon, and mix in one pound of treacle, slightly warmed, to make a smooth, firm paste. Roll out on a floured pastry-board, cut it into strips, about three inches long and one broad, and bake on a buttered tin, in a slow oven. Store in a closely-covered tin box. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Gingerbread, Imperial.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream. Iklix ^^^th it six ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, a dessert- spoonful of caraway-seeds, and a dessert-spoon- ful of powdered ginger. Stir three ounces of treacle into half a pint of new milk, make the whole into a paste, and bake on buttered tins in round cakes or fingers. Stick on the cakes a little candied peel, cut into strips. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Gingerbread, Indian (sec Indian Gin- gerl jrean). Gingerbread Leek (excellent).—:Mix thoroughly, one ounce and a half of (finger in one pound and a half of flour: add one pound and a quarior of sugar, and two ounces of candied peel, cT.t vor- fine. MtUt together