MOO ( *27 ) has shown that it may be deprived of its pecu- liar taste by boiling it with pulverised charcoal for half an hour; the saccharine liquor is then strained from the charcoal, when its iiavour is found equal to that of sugar. Molly Clark's Pudding—Make a custiird of a pint and a half of new milk, which has been previously flavoured with vanilla, half a pint of cream, the yolks only of eight eggs, and three oimces of white sugar. Stir until cold, when pour into a well-buttered basin or mould, cover with a buttered paper, and simmer gently for an hour. When done lot the pudding stand a few minutes before tiiming out. Serve with a hot fruit syrup or jelly poured round it, not over, or stewed French plums, or a compote of any kind that taste or fancy may direct. Probable cost, 1b. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Monastery Wine Soup. — Pick and wash four oimces of good rice, put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold water, and the yellow rind of a lemon. Let it soften gradually, and when it has become quite tender, pour over it a pint and a half of any white wine, and stir in from three to four ounces of sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs, pour the soup slowly upon them in the tureen, and serve at once. Monitor's Tart.—Make three-quarters of a pound of good puff paste, observing the proportions of three-quarters of a pound of butter to one pound of flour. Divide in two portions, roll out one half to about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it round with a tin-cutter. Well flour the pastry, and transfer it to the oven-leaf, which should be quite cold. Fill the tart with a compote of apples, pre- pared in the following manner :—Stew one pound of apples, cut into quarters (pared and cored), in a clean saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, one ounce of butter, and a little powdered cinnamon, until they are tender but not broken. They must not be put into the crust until cold. When placing the apples be careful to leave a margin an inch in depth all round. EoU out the other half of the crust, and lay it carefxilly over the apples. Brush the edges with the white of an egg, and press them well together, that the juice may not escape. Brush over the outside with the white of an egg, and sift a little sugar over it, and a few finely-chopped almonds. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Time to stew the apples, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Monk's Patties, The {see Patties, The Monk's).—A dish for Lent. Monmouth Pudding.—Take the crumb of a stale white loaf, put it into a basin, and pour over it boiling milk, in the proportion of a pint of milk to four ounces of bread. Cover until it is well soaked, then add two heaped table-spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, from four to five ounces of butter dissolved before the fire, the grated peel of a dry lemon with the juice of a fresh one, and three well-whisked eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, the bottom of which has been spread with jam— strawberry, raspberry, or plum. Bake for twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Montagu Pudding.—Mix to a smooth batter two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pint oi milk, and four eggs, well beaten. Then add half a pound of chopped (not rolled) suet, half a pound of stoned raisins—or a quarter of a. pound of raisins, and a quarter of a pound of sultanas—and two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Pour the whole into a basin, flour a cloth, put it over the top, and tie down tightly. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for four hours. Sufficient for six persons. Pfobable cost. Is. Montpellier Butter (Beurre de Mont- pellier).—Take equal quantities (about a hand- ful of each) of tarragon, chervil, and pimpernel, together with a small quantity of chives, and place them in boiling water to blanch. Then remove them, allow them to cool, and drain off all the water adhering to them. Then dry them on a cloth, and compress them to remove all moisture. Now place them in a mortar, with a clove of garlic, a handful of capers, the yolks of eight eggs boiled hard, the same number of anchovies, and some gherkins. Beat them together for five minutes, and then add one pound of good butter; season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and again beat them up together until perfectly mixed, a wine-glass- ful of the finest olive-oil being added during the process. When well mixed, pour on it, by little and little, a quart of vinaigre a I'estragon (vinegar flavom-ed with tarragon). Colour the preparation with the green colouring prepared from spinach-leaves. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, remove it from the mortar, and place it in a suitable vessel for sending to table. Montreal Pudding.—Put four ounces of flour into one basin, and whisk three eggs for ten minutes in another. Add to the eggs a small cup of milk, a large table-spoonful of good moist sugar, and the quarter of a small nutmeg, grated. Mix the flour and eggs gradually together, and stir in nearly half a pound of fine bread-crumbs. This mixture should be beaten for quite twenty minutes, when half a pound of raisins, stoned and cut, may be added. Butter a basin or mould, and boil; the mould to be well tied over the top. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient, for four- or five persons. Montrose Cakes.—Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream, with an equal weight of finely-sifted sugar. Whisk a dozen eggs for ten minutes, add them, with half a glassful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of rose-water, gradually, to the creamed butter. Beat the mixture for twenty minutes, dredging into it the whole of one pound of flour, well di-ied and sifted. If currants are liked, they can be added. Three-quarters of a pound will be enough for these ingredients. Moor Game, Broiled.—Truss the birds firmly, and di\nde them down the back; flatten the breast, and bruise the leg. Season with cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Put them