HAR ( 304 ) diah with good crust, put in tho piocos of haro, and pom- ovur tliom half a pint of good l)iown gra\'y luid, if liked, a glans of port. Covor tho dish with pastry, and buko in a modorato ovon. Timo, two hours to bake. Probaljlo coat of haro, Sa. 6d. to 68. Suihciont for six or sovon persons. Hare Pie, Raised.- Make a crust with a pound and a half of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter or lai-d, a pinch of salt, ajid balf a pmt of water. Put it aside for a little while. Cut a haro which has hung for a week or a fortnight into neat joints, and bone it, if practicable. When emptying it, bo cai-oful to preserve the blood, ilince half a pound of loan veal and haK a pound of fat bacon very finely. Pound thom in a mortar; i add tho blood in small quantities whilst pound- ! ing. Eoll the paste to the thickness of half an | inch in tho proper shape. Butter the mould, - press the pastry into it, fill it with alternate I layers of forcemeat and hare, fill the cavities with forcemeat and jellied gravy, lay two or three slices of bacon on the top, put on the pastry cover, brush it over with beaten egg, ] ornament the sides and top, and make a hole in the centre. Bakp for three hours. In order to ascertain whether th* pie is sufiiciently cooked, pierce it with a skswer. If it goes through the meat easily the pie may be taken out. Of course this can only be done when the meat is boned. No gi'avy should be put into the pie until after it is baked. This pie is to be eaten cold. Probable cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. {See Eaised Pies, To Form.) Hare, Potted.—Skin a hare and cut it into joints. Divide two pounds of bacon into square pieces of about two inches, and fry them in three ounces of butter. Put into the pan with them the pieces of hare, a small sprig of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram, two bay- leaves, a shallot, eight cloves, one blade of j mace, a pinch of cayenne, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt, if required. Fry them for a ) few minutes, then moisten with half a pint of | good gravy. Cover the pan closely, and ] simmer gently for an hour and a half. Drain the pieces of hare from the liqmd, pick the meat from the bones, remove the skin and sinew, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar. Mix with it the fat and bacon, also pounded, and taste if the paste is sufficiently seasoned. Add the liquid, first boiling it down till it is reduced to three-quarters of a pint, and then passing it through a hail" sieve. Put the mixture into jars, cover thesowith a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Take them out, and, when cool, cover the jars with melted lard or butter and after- wards with bladder. If prepared in this way and kept in a cool place, the hare wiU keep good for several weeks. Probable cost, 6s. 6d., sup- posing tho haro to cost Ss. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persona. Hare, Potted (from cold meat).—Take tho remains of cold roast hare. Pick tho meat from the bones, put it, freed from skin and sinew, into a mortar, and pound till it IS a smooth paste. If there ia a pound of moat, mix with it a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of popper, luilf a suit-spoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of sugar, and two clovus, pounded; also a quarter of a pint of cold gravy and four ounces of clarified butter. Wlion the ingredients are thorougliiy blended, put the meat into a disli, nmke it smootli and even, and pour over it two ounces of melted butter. Keep it in a cool place until required for uso. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Suflicient for five or six persons. Hare Ragout.—Divide the hare into neat joints. Put tlie best parts—namely, the back, shoulders, and legs—into a deep dish; pour over as much vinegar as will barely cover them, and put with them one bay-leaf, a Lirge onion, with six cloves stuck in it, half a dozen peppercorns, and half a dozen shallots. Let them remain in the marinade for twenty-four hours. Put two ounces of butter, three sliced onions, and three tea-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan. Set the pan ui)on a moderate fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon tiU the onions are brightly browned; add gradually a quart of water, make the mixture quite smooth, then put with it a bunch of herbs, four allspice, a sliced carrot, the inferior pieces of hare, such as the head, neck, liver, heart, and ribs, and a quarter of a pound of bacon, cut into slices. Simmer gently for an hour. Strain the gravy, and leave it imtil the following day, when the fat can be removed entire. Drain the hare from the vinegar and stew it in the gravy until tender. Add salt and pepper, if required. Serve with forcemeat balls round the dish. A glass of port is always an improvement to hare, but this may be added or not. Time, three- quarters of an hour to stew the hare. I'ro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast.—An old hare may be jugged or stewed, but should never be roasted. Choose one, therefore, not more than three-quarters grown. The longer it can be kept good the better it will be. It is best not to be opened for three or four days, and the vent and mouth may be tied up if it is wished to keep it as long as possible. As soon as it is paunched the liver and heart should be taken out and scalded, the inside wiped dry every day, and dusted with pepper, and the hare hung head down- wards in a cool diy place. As soon as it begins to grow limp it should be cooked. If there is any suspicion that it has been kept too long, let it lie in vinegar and water for an hour before it is put to the fire. Skin and wash the haro inside, wipe it outside with a damp cloth, and dry it. Pierce the skin of the neck, and any parts where the blood has settled, with the point of a sharp knife, and holdit in luke- warm water to draw the blood out. Fill it with good forcemeat, sew it up, and truss it firmly. Put it some distance from the fire at first, and when it is hot throughout place it nearer. It must be basted constantly, or it will bo drj' and hard. The usual plan is to baste it with salt and water for the firet quarter of an hour, then to pour this away, and use a