^^^^ (jASSELL*S COOKERY. at all, except before a very large fire. About half an hour before the joint is wmited remove the paste and paper, and sprinkle a little salt all over the haunch out of a pepper-box. . Next bring the haunch near the fire, and baste it with some fresh butter heated till it is frothed, and at the same time dredge the haunch witli flour. The point to be aimed at is to get a rich brown colour all over the joint. A good brisk fire will generally be sufficient; but if any diffi- culty is experienced, a salamander will be found a great assistance. Indeed, fur obtaining a colour, a salamander will often be found a desirable kitchen utensil. It is simply a large flat piece of iron with a handle to it. This iron is made red-hot and held near to what requires browning. A salamander will be found extremely Tiseful in browning cheesecakes, or in raising an omelette. A rich but not sti'ongly-flavoured gravy should be served with a haunch of venison, and also red-currant jelly. French beans are by far the best vegetable to be eaten with it, and stale bread is better than new. If possible, have a plate with hot water underneath it; and if you know a haunch of venison is coming, reserve your appetite as much as possible, and do not spoil it by eating entrees first. To my mind, a fine, well-cooked haunch of venison, such as is served during the season every Tuesday and Thursday at the Albion Hotel, opposite Drury-lane Theatre, is the finest dinner that can be obtained anywhere, including even Paris. Of course, the reason of covering the haunch with the paste is to keep in the flavour. We shall speak more fully on this point of keeping in the flavour when we come to consider cooking joints in closed vessels. One great secret of successful roasting is the basting. Now it is evident that any joint covered with fat requires less basting than a dry or lean joint. For instance, a loin of mutton requires less basting than a leg, because it is generally miich fatter. Again, in basting a sirloin of beef, the sides or lean part should be basted, while the fat upper part and undercut requii'e scarcely any. Basting with fat or dripping should not go on till the joint be taken down, but discontinued about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before; as, if a joint has been basted up to the last moment with fat, it has a tendency to make the meat, especially the outside cut, taste greasy. This does not apply to basting with butter. Butter, however, is now so dear that it is scarcely ever used for basting purposes. One great difficulty, perhaps the chief one with inexperienced cooks, is the time a joint will take, to roast. Too much dependence must not be placed on mere weight. For instance, take a shoulder of mutton. A large but tnin shoulder will not take so long to roast as a smaller but thicker one. So again, the old maxim of allowing a quarter of an hour to a pound of meat will not apply to ribs of beef rolled. This latter joint is all solid meat, and thick, and conse- quently takes a long time to get heated right through. So again, a. loin of mutton boned and stuSed, which is the most economical way of cooking it, will take a longer time to roast than an ordinary loin of mutton with the bone in it. Of course the weight of a joint is a great criterion as to how long it will take to cook; but then it should always be borne in mind that the weight and thickness should be considered together. One very common mistake made by cooks is to suppose that lamb does not require cooking so long as mutton, because it is young and tender. The con- trary is however the case: underdone lamb is far worse than underdone muttoa A well-roasted haunch or saddle of mutton when cut should show signs of having