( 29 ) APR APR currant jelly. If there is any doubt about the stiffness, a little isinglass might be added. When quite linn, it may be turned out. Time CO sinmier the apricots, twenty minutes. Pro- t>able cost, 2s. Half a dozen apncots sufficient for a pint moidd. Apricots Preserved in Jelly.—Take two pounds of sound and not over-ripe apricots, and four of powdered loaf sugar : pour a little boiling water upon the fruit; then draw off the skin, and take out the stones by making a slit with a knife at one end, and pushing them gently out. Strew half of the sugar upon a dish, place the fruit upon it, and cover with the rest. Let it remain thus for two or three hours, then put the whole carefully into a preserving- pan ; let it boil very gently until the apricots are tender, turning them frequently to prevent them burning, and taking off the scum as it rises. Put the apricots into the glasses in which they are to be kept, then add to the sjTup half a pint of apple-juice, and half a pound of sugar; let it boil imtil it will jelly, which it should do in a few minutes, then pour it over the fruit. Apricots, To Bottle (for Tarts in "Winter time).—Choose some ripe apricots: pare, stone, and quarter them. Lay them on a •dish with powdered sugar strewn over them in the proportion of two ounces of sugar to everj' pound of fruit. Let them remain thus for two or ■three hours; then put them into wide-mouthed ■bottles, cover them and place them up to their jiecks in a saucepan of cold water. Keep them there until the water boUs. Cork the bottles and wax them securely. Time to boU, haJf ■an hour. Apricots, To Candy.—Slit the fruit on one side and take out the stone, dry them separately on a dish, and cover them with crushed lump sugar. Bake them in a hot oven, and then dry them in a warm place for a few •days. Apricots, To Dry (a quick and easy method).—Pare, stone, and halve the fruit, then place it in a deep stone jar. Put the jar in a saucepan of boiling water over a good fire, and keep boiling until the fruit is quite tender. Lay the apricots on a sieve, that the juice may drain away, and afterwards put them on plates. Strew sifted sugar thickly •over them, and put them in a warm place to dr\', before storing them away. Time to boil the fruit, about half an hour. Apricots, To Dry.—The apricots should be taken before they are quite ripe. Scald them, draw off the skin, divide and stone them. Place them in a dish, with their weight in sugar strewn over them, and let them remain twenty- four hours. Then put the whole into a pre- ser\'ing-pan, and simmer them veiy gently until they are clear. They must remain in the syrup lor two days. It must then bo drained from them, boiled, and poured over them, and they must remain in it two days more. It must then be drawn off, and used for flavouring or other purposes, and the apricots dusted with sugar aad placed a little apart from each other in a cool oven to dry. They keep best in a tin box with writing-paper between the layers. The apricot syrup mixed with an equal quantity of brandy also makes an agreeable liquor. Time to make, six days. Apricots, To Dry (another way).—Wipe gently, stone, and halve some fine apricots, which must be sound and not very ripe. Weigh them, place them in a single layer in a large dish, strew their weight in sifted white sugar thickly over them, and leave them until the following day. Then put them carefully into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire; let them heat very gradually until tender. Take them out gently, so as not to break them, and let them stand in the syrup for two days, after which, take them out of it singly, place them on dishes to dry. They must be kept in a drj' place. Apricots, To Dry (French method).— Take some sound but not over-ripe apricots: wipe them and weigh them ; make a hole with a knife at one end, and remove the stone with- out diAading the fruit. Put them into cold water, and simmer until thej' are quite tender. Take equal quantities, by weight, of sugar and fruit, and boil it in water, allowing a cupful to each poimd. When the scum rises, put in the apricots, and let them remain until they look quite clear; then put all into a jar, and let it remain imtO. the next day, when the syrup must be drained off, boiled for five or ten minutes, and poured again over the fruit, to remain another twenty-four hours. This pro- cess must be repeated three times. Then the liquor must be di-awn from them for the last time, and the apricots placed separately on dishes, and dried very slowly. Time to make, five days. Apricots, To Preserve (Whole or in Halves).—Take four pounds of fine apricots which are not fully ripe. Let them be gathered, if possible, in the morning, when the sun is on them, as the flavour is then much the best; make a small slit with a layf e at the end where the stalk has been, and push the stone gently out. If they are to be preserved in halves, the stone can be easily removed. Throw them into cold water, and simmer them gently until they feel soft when a pin is pushed through them. Take them out and put them in fresh cold -water. Put into a preserving-pan one quart of water and four pounds of loaf sugar. Put it on a moderate fire, and stir it until the sugar is dissolved. When it boils, put in a table- spoonful of cold water; when it boUs up again, take it off the fire and let it stand for a few minutes to settle. Take off the scum, and boil it again. Drain the fruit, and put it into the syrup; let it boU up four or five times, eA'eiy time taking it off to cool, when it must be well skimmed. The last time, let it remain until the fruit is quite clear, which will be in about fifteen minutes. Just before it is taken from the fire, blanch and slice a few of the kernels and add them to it; or they may be blanched, and put into a little spirit until the jars are ready to be tied up, and then a few stre\\-n at the top of each. This plan may be followed in preserving whole many of the better kinds of