BAK BAB Stir all together, and place it over the pre- serve. Bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a small dish. Bakewell Pudding, Rich.—Line a tart- diah with puff-paste, lay on it any kind of pre- served fruit; get ready a quarter of a pound of melted butter, six ounces of finely-sifted sugar, and one ounce of almonds; add these ingre- dients to five yolks and two whites of eggs which have been thoroughly well beaten. Mix all together and fill up the dish. Bake care- fully for one hour in a moderate oven. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Baking Powders are now so well and frequently prepared by good makers, and can be bought rea(£dy in large or small packets, that it is almost needless to give instructions for making them. For the benefit of those, how- ever, who prefer home-made preparations, the following recipe is given, and will be found both excellent and economic:—Crush half a pound of tartaric acid to a fine powder, and mix with it three-quarters of a pound of carbonate of soda, and three-quarters of a pound of ground rice. Put the mixture into a tin box, and store it in a dry place. When wanted, use a heaped tea- spoonful of the powder with each poimd of material. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Balnamoon Skink {see Irish Soup). Banbury Cakes.—These rich well-known cakes are prepared from a mince called Banbury meat, made with the following ingredients: half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of lemon and orange-peel cut up fine, one pound of currants, half an ounce of cinna- mon, two and a half ounces of allspice. Mix all thoroughly, and keep it in a covered jar for use. The paste for these bims should be tolerably rich, rolled out thin, and cut into rounds or squares. To a layer of the mince, put on one round, cover over with another. Flatten with the hand, and moisten the edges with white of egg to make them adhere. Before putting into the oven brush the cakes over with the froth of eggs and sugar. They will take fifteen minutes to bake, and may be eaten hot or cold. Barbel.—This fish deserves very little no- tice. When cooked it is poor and woolly. The best method is to score and soak it in oU for half an hour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil each side from eight to ten minutes over a moderate fire. Serve on a hot dish with Maitre d'Hotel butter. Barberries, To Candy.—Take some preserved barberries, wash them in warm water to cleanse them from the syrup, and cover with dry finely-powdered sugar. Put them quickly into a moderately-heated oven, keeping them well sprinkled with sugar, and turning fre- quently. Barberries, To Dry, in Bunches.— Take fine bunches and hang them for a quarter of an hour in a vessel of boiling water; remove them carefully without bruising, and simmer ten minutes in a boiling syrup made with two pounds of sugar and a pint of water; then draw the syrup from the fire, and let the bunches stay in it for several hours. Then hang them up to drain and dry. Eemove when sufficiently dry and put away with care. Barberries may be had without stones, but should there be any they must be removed before commencing to dry them. Cost of berries, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Barberries, To Pickle, for Garnish- ing.—Gather the clusters before they are fully ripe; carefully pick off any unsound or very rq)e berries, and lay the remainder in bottles. Cover them with a strong brine, made by boil- ing a quarter of a pound of salt with each pint of water, and add a small nut of alum to the whole. The brine must not be put over the fruit until it is quite cold. Store the bottle in a cool, dry place, and examine them occasion- ally. If at any time a scum should be observed on the surface, pour off the liquid, and put freshly-boiled brine in its place, made not quite so salt. Keep the jars closely covered. Time to boil the brine, ten minutes. Probable cost of barberries, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Barberries, To Preserve.—To every two pounds of fruit take four and a half pounds of powdered loaf sugar, throw some of it over the barberries to be preserved, and with the remainder make a strong sjTup in the proportion of a pint of water to a pound of sugar. Put the barberries into it, and make them boil as quickly as possible, that they may not lose colour; then fill the jars for use. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 5d. per pint. Barberry Cream.—This pleasant sharp cream is made by mixing one pint of cream, half a pint of barberry jelly, and half an ounce of isinglass. Stir over a slow fire until the isinglass is dissolved. When removed from the fire add a little cochineal, if required. Sweeten to taste, beat to a froth, and pour into a mould to set. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for a large mould. Barberry Jam.—Take equal quantities of barberries and good finely-pounded sugar; heat gently and boU together ten minutes. Take off the scimi, and put it into pots, tied dovra. with thick paper. Proba'ile cost of barberries, from 4d. to 5d. per pint. Barberry Jelly. — The fruit should be quite ripe. Strip the berries, wash them in clear spring water, and put them into a jar with only the water that clings to them. Place the jar in a vessel of boiling water; cover the top of the jar, and in one hour they will be fit to strain. To every pound of juice put one pound and a quarter of sugar; boU quickly five minutes. Probable cost of barberries, 4d. to 6d per pint. Barberry Marmalade. — Take one pound of nice ripe barberries; boil, but do not crush them, in a quarter of a pint of cold water. When they are sufficiently soft remove them from the pan, and use the water, with enough fresh, to make a pint of sjTnip. IBoil it with a pound and a half of sugar; then put in the fruit and boU for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pint.