CHE CHE ( 117 ) for three weeks, or unta the blue mould begins to appeal". Cheese Canapees. — Cut a stale loaf into slices about u quarter of an inch thick. Divide these into pieces about two inches long, and one inch vdde, and fry them in hot butter or oil till thev are a bright golden colour. Spread a little "thin mustard on eacli of these pieces, lay over that some Cheshire or Parmesan cheese, and put them in a quick oven till the cheese is dissolved. Serve as hot as possible. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Probable cost, about Id. each piece. Allow two or three pieces for each person. Cheese, Cayenne.—Take a quarter of a pound each of flour, butter, and grated cheese. Mix them thoroughly, and add a pinch of salt and as much cayenne pepper as will cover a fourpenny-piece. Mix with yolk of egg and water to a smooth stiff paste, roll this out to the thickness of half an inch, then cut it into pieces about three inches long and one inch wide. Bake these until they are lightly browned, and serve them as hot as possible. Time to bake the fingers, five or ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Sufficient for four persons. Cheese, Cheshire, Imitation.—Put the milk fresh from the cow, and -svithout skim- ming it, into a tub, with as much rennet as will turn it before it has had time to get quite cold. When the curd comes, draw it out with the fingers as gently as possible, as rough handling will destroy its richness. Put half an ounce of salt with everj' pound of cirrd. Lay the curd little by little in the cheese vat, which should have holes in the lower part of it, and put the vat into the press. When it has been there a couple of hours take it out, put it into a little warm water to harden the skin, then wipe it dry, cover it with a cloth, and return it to the press (placing it in the vat, which has also been wiped diy) for seven or eight hours. Take it out again, smooth the edges, and before putting it in the last time prick some holes in it a couple of iuches deep with a bodkin. Allow it to remain for two days, turning it at least twice a day; take it out, put it on a clean board, turn and move frequently, and i-ub with a dry cloth. It will be ready in about eighteen months. At the end of the year after it is made make a hole in the middle and pour in some good wine. Make up the hole with some of the cheese. These cheeses should be about eight inches in thickness, and will be found to be verj- mellow and good. Cheese, Cream.—Take some thick cream and tie it in a wet cloth. Stir a tea-spoonful of salt into every pint of cream. Hang it in a cool airy place for six or seven days, then turn it into a clean cloth, which must be put into a mouM, and imder a weight for about twenty- four hours longer, when it will be fit for use. It should be turned twice a day. Probable cost, cream, Is. 6d. per pint. Cheese, Crusts for, or Pulled Bread.—Full the crumb of a new loaf into small rough pieces, place them on a dish or tin plate, and put them into a quick oveu till they are lightly browned and crisp. If the oven is not hot tliey may bo browned before a clear fire in a Dutch oven. The crumb of half a quartern loaf will make enough for half a dozen persons. Cheese Fondue or Soufile.—Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix smoothly with it one ounce of flour, a pinch of salt and cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of milk ; simmer the mixture gently over the fiLrc, stin-ing it all the time, till it is as thick as melted butter; stir into it about three ounces of finely-grated Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese. Turn it into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Whisk three whites to a solid froth, and just before the souffle is" baked, put them into it, and pour the mixture into a souffle dish or small round tin. It should bo only half filled, as the fondue will rise very high. Pin a napkin round the dish in which it is baked, and serve it the moment it is taken out of the oven, as if it is allowed to fall, its beauty wiU be entirely gone. On this account it is better to have a metal cover over it strongly heated. Time twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. if made with milk. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Cheese Fondue or Souffle (another way).—Boil a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir into it tiU melted an ounce of butter. Pour it upon half a tea-cupful of fine bread-crumbs. Soak a few minutes, then add half a tea-cupful of grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt. Butter a souffle tin, and tie round it, to make the sides higher, a band of buttered paper. Just before putting the souffle into the oven, dash in the whites of three eggs which have been whisked to a firm froth. Bake in a quick oven till the centre is firm, and serve immediately. Cheese Fritters.—Cheese which has be- come a little dry will answer for this purpose, though, of course, fresh cheese will be better. Put three ounces of cheese in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced ham, three dessert-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, a piece of butter about the size of a small egg, two or three grains of cayenne, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Pound these ingredients together until they are perfectly smooth, then fonn the paste into balls about the size of a walnut, flatten to a thickness of half an inch, dip them in batter, and fry them until lightly browned, and drain. Place them on a napkin, and serve as hot as possible. Time to fry, two or three minutes. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. One or two will suffice for each person. Cheese Omelet.—Whisk two eggs thoroughly. Allow a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese to every two eggs. Mix completely. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into the frying-pan. When it is hot, pour in the mixture, and stir it with a wooden