BAG (40) BAG is not only adniiriiljly iidai)tc'd for itu special pur- Sose, but may also bo UHod with advantage in omcstic cookery. In appoaranco it i tiscinhleK a sort of double saute pan, one part of wliicli acts as a lid to the other. Tho inside is iluted, 80 that tliero is little danger of tlio moat sticking to the bottom, and as there is u handle to oadi part, and the two can be fi.xod secui-ely togetluir, the meat can bo turned to either side without its being nei^essary to remove tho lid, and so allow tlio heat to escape. Tho advantages which may bo gained from using this pan are obvious. There is littlo danger that tho meat will cither bo burned or smoked, and the closely-fitting lid so economises tho heat that even with a mode- rate amount of fuel despatch is easily attained. Chops, steaks, omelets, and fish may all be cooked in this pan. Price 3s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. Bachelor's Pudding.—Beat up three eggs and add them, with a flavouring of essence of lemon and grated nutmeg, to four ounces each of finoly-niinced apples, currants, grated bread-crimibs, and two ounces of sugar. Mix thorouglilj'- and boil in a buttered mould for three hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Bacon, Boiled.—Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the pot with sufficient cold water to cover it. Allow it very gradually to come to a boil, removing all scum as it arises, and diaw it aside to simmer until thoroughly done ; then puU off the skin and serve with bread-crumbs over the top. Time to boil two pounds, one hour and a half; half an hour for each addi- tional pound. Bacon, Boiled, To Warm. — Many people tliink that bacon once boUed must be eaten cold, but the following mode wiU show that it is easy to make it an agreeable and also an economical breakfast dish. Cut it into thin slices, sprinkle each slice with fine bread-crumbs, with which a very little cayenne has been mixed, and toast qiiicldy before the fire. A common wire toaster that can be turned without dis- placing the bacon answers best. Bacon Broiled.—Cut streaked bacon into thin slices and lay them on a gridiron over the fire; turn repeatedly until of a light brown colour, and serve hot. Time to broil, three to four minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bacon Cheeks, To Pickle.—To about sixteen pounds of meat, take of salt and sugar each one pound, and one ounce of saltpetre thoroughly blended together; sprinkle the cheeks well with salt, let them lie till next day, then drain well, and rub in the above ingre- dients. Turn and rub often, and in three weeks or a month, or less, they will be fit for use. Probable cost of pickle, 4hd. Bacon Sauce. — Make a mixture of a spoonful of flour and a little water; add to it vinegar and water in equal parts (one tea- cupful) , and tho yolks of three eggs well beaten. Cut a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon into pieces the size of large peas, and fry them in a stewpan till they are of a pale brown colour. Add salt and pepper to taste, pour the mixture over them, and stir till thick. As this sauce is to be used cold allow for it, and do not make it too thick to pour. Probable cost, 6d. Bacon, Toasted.—Take thin shcos of bacon, place tlicm on the pins of an ordinary toast(!r; turn as required. They are more delicate if held on a fork before the fire, and if placed between tho common wire toasters they can be easily turned when one side is browned. Fat bacon should be cut t<jlcmbly thick for toasting or gi-illing, lean bacon somc-what thinner. Serve on a hot disli. I'njljablc cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bacon, To Gure and Keep free from Rust (ConjtKTT's Uecii'e).—WiUiain Coljbett, in his J{in-al Economy, gives the following method of curing bacon. Practical persons highlji re- commend it:—Take two sides or flitches of bacon, rub the insides with salt, then place one on the other, the flesh-side uppermo.'^t, in a salting-trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine; for to have sweet and fine bacon the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it the objection- able taste that barrel and sea-pork have. Every one knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state; there- fore, change the salt often—once in four or five days—let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; change the flitches every ten days; put that at bottom which was first on the top. This mode will cost a great deal more in salt than the sop- ping mode, but without it the bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. The time required in making the flitches sufficiently salt depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place; but for the flitches of a hog of seven or eight stones, in weather not very dry or damp, about six weeks may do; and as the flitches should be fat, it receives httle injury from over salting. Bacon, To Gut up a Pig for.—In a pig of fail- size, the chine, which is excellent for roasting or boiling, is cut from between the sides or flitches as shown in the diagram; but if the pig is small the flitches should be divided down SECTIONAL DIAGBAM OF BACON PIO. A The Chine. b The Head. c The Leg. D The Flitch. e The Shoulder. the chine. The shoulders may be loft attached to the sides, or separated according to tho size of the pig. The legs are made into hams, and tho sides form what is bacon proper. The head or check is either boiled, collared, or pickled. The inner fat is melted for lard; and the pieces cut off in trimming the joints are used for sausages, pies, brawn, and other purjjoses (*f« Brawn, Ham, Lard, Pig's Cheek, &c.. Pork).