BEE BEE (60) tho stoiiks upon it and glaze over tho top. Tiiiu), ton niinuti'H to broil. I'robiiblo cost, Is. por pound. Two pounds sufficiont for four persons. Beef Rissoles. —Minco one pound of cold roust boof, tho louner tho bottor, very fine; add poppor, salt, a fow savory herbs chopped small, and half a toa-spoonful of minced lenion- peol; mix all together with half the weight of the beef in broad-crumbs. Bind it with two eggs into a tliick paste ; foi-m into l)all8 ; dip them in white of egg and broad-crumbs, and fry them a rich brown. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley, and with a brown gravy in a tureen, or wthout the parsley, roimd tho rissoles on the dish. Time, from eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, without meat, about 6d. Beef, Roast.—For roasting, the sirloin of beef is considered the prime joint. Before the moat is put upon the spit, the pipe which runs doNvn tho bone should be cut out; cover tho fat with a piece of white paper fastened on with string. Make up a good strong fire, with plenty of coals put on at the back. Put it rather near tho fire at first, and in a short time draw it back, and keep it about eighteen inches from the grate. Baste continually all the time it is roasting, at first with a little butter or fresh dripping, afterwards its own fat will be suffi- cient. If the basting is kept up as it should be, the joint will not need to have flour dredged over it, before removing it from the fire. The time it will take in roasting depends upon the thickness of the piece; a piece of sirloin weigh- ing about fifteen pounds should be roasted for three hours and a half, while a thinner piece, though of the same weight, may be done in three hours. It must also be remembered that it takes longer to roast when newly killed than when it has been kept, and longer in cold weather than in warm. Beef, Roast, Minced.—Place a spoon- ful of liour in a pan, and bi'own it with some butter. Add a pound of cold roast beef finely minced, some gravy, or stock broth, with a glass of wine, and season with herbs chopped up, and salt and pepper. When nearly ready, put in a little butter, and mix it vsdth the other materials. This dish may be sent to table either -with eggs ranged round the dish, or with pieces of bread fried crisp in butter. Beef, Roast, and Boiled Turkey- Soup.—Take the liquor in which a turkey has been boiled, and the bones of the turkey and beef; put them into a soup-pot with two or thi-ee carrots, turnips, and onions, half a dozen cloves, pepper, salt, and tomatoes, if they can bo had; boil four hours, then strain all out. Put the soup back into the pot, mix two table- spoonfuls of fiour in a little cold water; stir it into the soup, and allow it to boil. Cut some bread in the form of dice, lay it in the bottom of the tureen, pour the soup on to it, and colour with a little soy. Beef Roll. — Take four pounds of cold, roast, or boiled boof ; mince it well; season it to tftsto with ordinary condiments and chopped herbs, and put it into a roll of puff-paate. Bake for half an hour, or Icjngor if the paste is thick. Tho French prepare a roll of moat in the above method, wrap a buttered paper roimd it, and cover with a coarse jiasto of liour and water, and bake it in a moderate oven for a couple of liours, that is, if tho meat weigh say four pounds. Tho paper and crunt is then removed, and tho roll served with a little brown gravy. As a rule, any meat baked in a coarse crust this way, will repay the cook for her trouble. Beef Rolled as Hare.—Take any piece of tender lean beef—inside of a su-loin to be preferred. Allow it to soak for twenty-four hours in a little port wino and vinegar mixed, a glass of each. Make some forcemeat, let it bo very good, and place it with a slice or two of bacon on tho beet, lloll and tie it, and roast before a clear fire, basting frequently with a sauce of port wine and vinegar, of equal quan- tities, and pounded allspice. Serve with a rich gravy, and send red-currant jelly to table with it. Probable cost for two pounds of meat, 2s. 9d, Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Beef, Round of, Boiled.—Few people dress a whole round, and hence this recipe is given for half a round, or, say twelve pounds, from the silver or tongue side of the round. Salt it for eight or ten daj'-s, then clean off tho salt or brine, skewer it up tight, and tie a piece of wide taj)e round it to keep it well together. Put it into a saucepan of lukewarm water, boil up, and keep boiling for four minutes, remove the scum carefully as it rises, otherwise it will sink into the beef and give it an unsightlj"- appearance. When the scum is well removed, set the pan by the side of the fire, and let the meat simmer very gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Should any scum stick to the meat, remove it -with a brush before serving. Replace the skewers by silver ones, trim the round, and throw over the meat some of the liquor it was boiled in. Garnish with carrots, parsnips, &c. Time to simmer, about three hours after it boils. Probable cost, about lOd. per pound. Beef, Round of, Pickled.—Boil six pounds of salt, two poimds of sugar, and three ounces of powdered saltpetre in three gallons of water (spring water is the best if it can be pro- cured), skim well, and when cold, pour it over the joint, which should previously have been rubbed during two or three days with a dry mixture of the same. Some housekeepers pre- fer this dry method throughout, rubbing regu- larly for twenty-one daj^s, and using salt only during the last fortnight. If put into lukewarm water, boiled for four minutes, then drawn back and simmered slowly at the rate of twenty minutes to everj' pound, tho meat will be tender, and of "a good colour and flavour. Average cost of beef, lOd. per pound* Beef, Round of, Red.—Salt a roimd of beef m tho ordinary way, but mix an oimce of aUspico, the same of popper, and two ounces of saltpetre with the salt, and rub and tm-n daily for a fortnight. At the end of this time press well into the meat some minced onion; put a thick coating of good beef suet over the