1" CASSELL'S COOKEtlY. are so enonnous, that there can be but little doubt that before long they will i-iUiversidly be used throughout the kmgdom. One veiy obvious advantage they possess is that of eleanliuoss. The outsides of saucepans used with close stoves do not get encrusted with soot like those that are placed over open tires. Again, in using shut-up ranges all fear of any dishes being sent up smoky is done away with. But of coui-se the chief point iu their favour is economy of fuel; and it should be remembered that economy in the necessaries of life is a duty. Just as that maa who could cause two grams of corn to gr-ow where only one grew before is a real benefactor to the himian race, so is ho equally a benefactor who can so economise either food or fuel that half the quantity will do the work of the whole; but we will refer to the subject of close stoves more fully when speaking of kitchen utensils in general. There is one method of cooking to which we must refer before passing on to the general principles to be observed in cooking vegetables, and that is exijosing meat to the heat of an oven which is heated on the outside by steam instead of fire. This is, ill fact, the principle of Captain Warren's cooking pot. The joint is placed in an inner chamber, the outside of which is surrounded with steam. Consequently tlie joint is cooked in its own juice and vapours. The invention is valuable, owing to the very important fact that it is the most economical way of cooking possible. At the same time it gives, comparatively speaking, but little trouble to the cook. Should it be wished that the joint should be a roast one, it has to be taken out of the cooking pot and browned. However, when this is done the joint cannot com- pare to one roasted before an open fire, or baked in one of the new ovens. I would therefoi-e recommend, when Captain Warren's cooking pot is used, to keep as much as possible to the plan of eating the joint simply as it is, as browning the outside merely makes it a sort of compromise between a roast leg of mutton and a boiled one. One other advantage possessed by Captain Warren's cooking pot is that the lid is so constructed that while the meat is cooking in the inner chamber vegetables can be cooked by steam in a chamber above. VEGETABLES. These may roughly be divided for cooking purposes into two classes, viz., roots and greens; the chief point of distinction between the two being that in cooking the latter class due attention must be given to the fact, that a good colour is an important point for consideration. One almost universal principle in cooking vegetables is the addition of salt to the water in which they are boiled; and another almost as universal is that they should be put into boiling and not cold water. The quantity of salt that should be added will generally be found to be in the proportion of a good brimming table-spoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Now, the whole of the following vegetables should be cooked by placing them in boiling water, salted in the proportion named. Turnips, cauliflowers, carrots, cabbages, artichokes (French), asparagus, French beans, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, parsnips, new potatoes, gi-een peas, and vegetable marrow. The whole of these will of course vary as to time, according to their size and age. Old potatoes should be placed in ^old water, and medium-aged potatoes in lukewarm water; the reason, of course, why old potatoes are placed in cold water bemg that otherwise, the root being hard, the outside part of a large potato would be apt to get pulpy before the inside got soft. In cooking Jerusalem artichokes it seems to be :U3 open question whether they should be placed in hot water or cold; they should,