BEE ( oi ) BEE tho meat into a baking-pan, with the remainder of tho herbs and spice, a bit of butter rolled in Hour, and one pint of water. Cover the top of tho pan, and bake in an oven. When tender, strain tho gnivy, and serve the beef with pickles on the top. It makes an excellent cold dish, but should be served hot with the gravy at first. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persona. Beef la Mode), No. 5. French Recipe. —Take a large, fiat stewpan, and put into it two ounces of good butter. When the butter begins to froth, add a table-spoonful of flour, and stir until the two are well mixed and of a fine golden colour. Next lay in a piece of rump of beef, or any other tender part, three pounds in weight. Fry gently, being verj' careful that the meat does not stick to the pan. Add by degrees a pint of rich stock, well flavoured with carrots, savoury herbs, onions, bay-leaves, salt, and pepper. When preferred, the vege- tables may be put in whole, instead of merely flavouring the gravy with them, and they look very nice when used to garnish the meat. In France, they greatly increase the quantity of vegetables by adding tomatoes, when in season, small cucumbers, mushrooms, and green peas. Veal dressed this way, with the addition of new potatoes, is excellent, and is generally preferred to beef. Time to stew, four or five hours. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef (a la Mode), or Brazilian Stew. Dip some pieces of beef, cut from the shm, about three ounces in weight each, in vinegar, and place them in a stewpan (without any water) on a very slow fire. Let them gradually get hot. In about three hours it will be found that the meat has yielded sufficient gravy, and will be exceedingly tender. Add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table- spoonful of port or claret, and haK a tea-spoonful of brown thickening (or, failing this, a smaU piece of butter, about the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, with a little salt and cayenne). Simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beef (a la Polonaise).—Mix some bread- crumbs with minced onion, a little butter, pepper, and salt. Get a piece of beef, about four or five pounds, trim neatly, and insert the above stuffing into incisions" made in the meat. These incisions should not be through, or the forcemeat wiU fall out into the stew- pan. Put the meat into a stewpan, with a little butter and very little water, and stew until tender. Thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening; or, faihng this, with a quarter of an oimce of butter rolled in flour. Time to stew, three hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Beef, Australian {see Australian Beef). Beef, Bachelor's.—Take a nice piece of ribs, from eight to ten pounds, bone and tie it securely that it may not slip; pound about half a tea-spoonful of saltpetre, mix it with a little salt and rub it well into the meat. The next day pour over it a boiled pickle which has been allowed to get cold. Keep it in this from six to eight days. Wash, tie in a cloth, and boil from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the weight. Bring it to the boil and then simmer only. Serve with carrots. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Beef, Bachelor's, Stew.—Take a piece of meat weighing from three to four pounds. If beef, from the rump, fillet, or buttock, or a fiUet of veal of the same weight; pepper and brown the meat in a stewpan, using a small quantity of good butter. Cut up two or three carrots into thick slices, remove the white parts of them with an apple-corer, and place them on the top of the meat. Then add three-quarters of a pint of water, and cover up tightly to sim- mer over a very slow fire. The main point to be observed is to keep the lid of the stewpan so closed that no steam may escape. In about three-quarters of an hour turn the meat over, but still keep the carrots on the top, and add four or five small onions, a little mushroom ketchup, and salt, and cover again tight as before. Simmer on the side of the fire for another hour or more, but always observing to add a little boiling water if required. Veal may be served up with green peas, a little ham, and the juice and rind of a lemon. Time, from one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Suffi- cient for four persons. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Beef, Baked.—Take about two pounds of thin slices of cold roast beef, sprinkle over them a little salt and a dust of flour; roll them neatly up with a small portion of fat between each roll, and lay them in the bottom of a pie-dish. Slice two carrots and a turnip and parboil them; lay them with thinly-sliced onion and minced herbs over the meat, and pro- ceed with another layer of beef as before till all is used up. The vegetables should be next to the paste, and should be dusted over with pepper and salt. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour with about half a pint of good gravy, free from grease, and two or three table-spoonfuls of ale ; put this into the dish and bake three-quarters of an hour, covered with mashed potatoes or a crust if pre- ferred. Sufficient for fotir or five persons. Beef, Baron of, consists of both sides of the back, or a double sirloin, and weighing from thirty to one hundred pounds, according to the size of the animal. It is always roasted, but is now rarely prepared, except on particular festive occasions at the English Court, and at great public entertainments. It is generally accom- panied by a boar's head and other substantial viands. Beef, Boiled.—Put fresh beef into boiling water, bring it to a boil quickly, draw the pan back, and simmer gently till done, allowing fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. Salt beef should be put into lukewarm, not boiling water. Simmer from the time of boiling till it is served up. Skim the pot thoroughly, and turn the meat twice during the simmering. If vegetables are liked, carrots or turnips may be added, but they should only be put in long enough to get them properly cooked. The liquor will serve for pea-soup, and is useful to the cook in