cassell's cookery. the dish on which the chop is placed, as well the cover which goes over it slioukl be made not merely warm, but hot. ' CLEANLINESS. Of ail the principles upon which really good cooking depends, there is perlmps none so import^mt as that of cleanliness. I would here remark in passing that real cleaidiness is by no means so common as many would imagine, the reason being that often servants do not know how to be properly clean. I wiU give one very simple example—a wine decanter that looks dull. You will be told it has been thoroughly washed, and perhaps some brush inserted, witli great difficulty and loss of time, down the neck. Still the decanter does not look bright. Supjjose, however, the person in charge of the glass had been properly instructed—a handful of silver sand put in the decanter with a little water—what a difference ! The decanter, after being well rinsed so as to get rid of every particle of sand, reassumes that bright appearance that it originally possessed when, sparkling on the velvet stand under the sunlight in the window, it tempted the passer-by to enter the shop and purchase it. It may seem a rude statement, but nevertheless ti-ue, that the ignorance of some persons, especially women, is simply unfathomable. There are cases on record in which attempts have been made to wash greasy things without soda. This ignorance is, of course, rare; but, too often, cooks wash up incompletely for the sole reason that they will not use enough soda. Various causes for this will they assign. They say it chaps their hands, but I would remind cooks that very often they moisten their hands with hot soda and water very unnecessarily. It is easy, with a little manage- ment, to avoid strong soda and water touching the backs of the hands and wrists ^t all, and these are the parts principally affected. A little grease, too, rubbed on the backs of the hands is a great protection. Another point often omitted is the washing of the lids of the saucepans as well as the saucepans themselves. The saucepan may be perfectly clean; but many a dish has been spoiled by a dirty lid having been placed on it, the pei'haps decomposed flavour of the last ingredients cooked in it dropping down with the condensed steam. Take, for instance, the case of a large fish-kettle which will take in a turbot whole or a salmon. Now, the water in which fish has been boiled will often tm-n to jelly when cold, and little pieces of fish are very apt to stick in comers, &c. I would strongly recommend every cook, before filling the fish-kettle, to put it for an instant on the fire, just long enough to make it warm; then smell the kettle; the warmth will be sufficient to melt any little congealed particles that may by chance have remained behind. Many a fine fish has been utterly spoilt, and the fishmonger blamed when the real party at fault has been the cook. In speaking of omelets I recommended either a new frying-pan or one that had only been used for omelet purposes. The reason of this is that, however careful the cook might be, the difficulty of absolutely cleansing the frying-pan, suppose, for instance, it had been used for the purpose of fr)ring onions, is really gi-eater than many persons would suppose. Now, a sweet omelet, in which the delicate flavour of vanilla assists, would be ruined by the slightest tinge of onion flavour. Let those who blame a cook for imperfect washing, themselves wash an old eau-de-Cologne bottle thoroughly, cork it down tightly, and smell it at the end of a week ; they will then be the better able to understand how certain " flavours" possess the property of clinging to hard substances, such as glass, and will be more lenient when they find fault with others.