PAS ( 616 ) PAS being oiled, then Bet it aside, and when it is nearly cold, stir into it a woU-boaton egg and a pound of driisd and sifted ilour. lioU it out till it is very thin, lino the tartlot-tins with it as quickly and lightly as possible, brusli them over with water, sift powdored loaf sugar upon thoni, and bake in a modorato oven lor about ton nainutos. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Pastry.—In making pastry, the first thing to be remembered is that every article used in its preparation should be scrupulously clean; and in order to insure this it is best to have all the utensils washed and thoroughly dried directly after they are used, and dusted when they are again required. In addition to this there must be good materials, a well regulated oven, a cool room, and a cook who brings to her work a cool, light, quick hand, close attention, and a little experience. There are four principal kinds of pastry : puff paste, or feuilletage; short crust, for family use; standing crust, for meat and fish pies; and brioche paste, which is a sort of dough used for loaves, rolls, and buns. As cool hands are required, it is best to wash them in water as hot as can be borne a minute or two before making the pastry. The heat of the oven should in most cases be moderate, and the door should be only opened when it is absolutely necessary during the process of baking. The best way of ascertaining if the oven is properly heated, is to bake a small piece of pastry in it before putting in the pie or tart. •Standing crusts require a quicker oven than ordinary pastry. In all cases wetting the pastry much will make it tough. Pastry Cream, for Garnishing Tartlets and other Pastry.—Rub together one ounce of flour and a well-beaten egg. When quite smooth, add a small pinch of salt, one ounce of powdered and sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire imtil it boils. Draw the saucepan to the side, cover closely, and let the contents simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then turn the mixture into a bowl, and add to it the yolks of two eggs and a table-spoonful of powdered ratafias, with any additional flavoiiring that may be liked. Put a lump of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan, place it on a gentle fire. As soon as it is lightly coloxired stir it into the flavoured cream. When cold it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Pastry, Glazing of.—Glazed pastry is generally used for meat pies or raised pies. If it is wished to give a deep glaze to the pie, beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and when the pastry is almost done enough, take it out of the oven and brush it lightly over with the egg, then put it in again a minute or two to set. If a lighter glaze is required, brush the pie with the whole of the egg, to which a spoonful of milk may be added, or not. Time, five or six minutes to set the glaze. Probable cost. Id. The yolk of one egg will be enough to glaze three or four pies. Pastry, Good Plain.—Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with a pound of flour. Rub in a quarter of a pound of rather soft lard or di-ippmg, until the ingiedients are thoroughly blonded, then add two tea-spoonfuls of baking, powder. Draw the mixture to one; side of the bowl, pour a little water into the vacant space, and with four fingers work the ingredients to a soft paste. Lift the pastry out in small quuiititios as it acquires the proper consistency. Roll it out till sufliciently thick to spread another four ounces of lard upon it, dredge a little flour on it, give it one or two turns, and it is ready for use. This pastry requires a quick oven. Time, ten minutes to make. Probable cost, 6d. Pastry, Good Plain (anotherway).—Mix a tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of flour. Rub in lightly six ounces of butter or lard, or half butter and half lard, and stir water in briskly with a fork. When the mixture is smooth and compact, roU it out two or three times, and it is ready for use. Time, ten minutes to make. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pastry, Iced.—Iced pastry is generally used for fruit tarts and sweet dishes; there are two or three ways of doing it. First—beat the white of an egg to a firm froth When the pastry is almost done enough take it out of the oven, brush it over with the egg, cover it with powdered sugar, sprinkle a few drops of water upon it, and return it to the oven for a few minutes to harden, taking care that it does not colour. Or—mix half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar with the white of an egg, beaten to a firm froth, and two table-spoonfuls of cold water; keep stirring imtil the icing is used. When the pastry has been baked, and is nearly cold, brush it over with the icing, and put it into a cool oven to harden. Or— moisten the pastry with cold water before baking it, and press a thick coating of powdered sugar lightly upon it. Pastry, Plaits of {see Plaits of Pastry). Pastry Powder, or Baking Powder. —Take an equal bulk, not weight, of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and ground rice. Mix thoroughly. Roll the mixture with the rolling- pin to free it from lumps, and keep it in a closely-stoppered wide-mouthed bottle until wanted. When making common pastrj^, put a tea-spoonful of the powder with every pound of flour, and in making cakes allow a heaped tea-spoonful to every poimd of material. This powder will make the pastry lighter, and render it also more digestible. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pastry Ramakins.—Roll out evenly and tliinly a quarter of a pound of good puff paste. Sprinkle over it a little finely-grated Parmesan, fold, roll it again, and sprinkle a little more cheese upon it; then roll it out once more, stamp it into any fancy shapes, and brush over with yolk of egg. Put the rama- kins on a buttered baking-tin, and bake them in a brisk oven. Serve as hot as possible. These ramakins should be served with cheese. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. ProT)able cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. UN' 1 'C