FOR POE ( 218 ) and rub with it throo ouikos of butter, in the proportion of half a pouuii of broad to thiu quantity; add tho moat, with a flavouring of nutmog and salt. Bind with four yolks of oggs, and inuko up into balls for pastiiis or soups. A littlo ham, cut into thin slicos and rollod round the balls separately, is a groat iniprovomont to a white meat pasty. For game or beef pasties uso pork, game, or liver. If parsley is liked, some nuiy bo minced and pounded with the meat. Forcemeat for Fish, Soups, or Stews.—Pound tho flesh of a middle-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boilod egg, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Mix these with a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter (oiled), and two raw eggs. Make into small balls, and fry a pale brown in butter. Two or three oysters may be added. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. [See also Forcemeat for Baked Pike.) Forcemeat for Game.—Take the livers of the game, and pound them with haK their weight of beef suet and good fat bacon, mixed together; season with salt, pepper, and powdered cloves. Use a little of the meat of game if enough livers cannot be obtained ; moisten with cream, and bind with the yolks of two eggs. If the fox'cemeat be required stiff, stew over a gentle fire, keeping it constantly stirred until the proper consistency is gained. Time to stew, about ten or twelve minutes. Forcemeat for Goose.—Chop very finely two oimces of onions, pour boiling water on them, and cover the basin with a plate. When they have steamed a few minutes, pour off the water, and add the same weight of bread- crumbs and the parboiled liver, or a Httle beef minced small, with half a dozen sage-leaves, or more if liked. Flavour with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Some cooks boO. the onions, but as this mode takes from the freshness of the force- meat, the above preparation of onions will be found to please most lovers of goose. Butter may be used, bits of it being mixed with the forcemeat, but a well-conditioned goose will not require butter. Forcemeat for Hare.—Parboil the li^'er of the hare, if sound, and mince it finely; also chop a quarter of a pound of suet and rather less of lean bacon, which should be shred fine, that the forcemeat may not require to be pounded in a mortar. Mix these ingredients together, and add six ounces of bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of parsley, a little thyme and marjoram mixed, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Bind with two or three yolks of eggs, which must be well beaten before being used. Stuff" the inside of the hare, and make balls to be fried a nice brown. Forcemeat for Meat Pies or Ra- goi^ts.—Take a quarter of a pound of ham, the same of cold veal, and of beef suet, a chive or two, some parsley, cayenne, salt, and a very little lemon-peel, with half a pint of bread- crumbs. Pound all together in a mortar (pre- viously chopping the meat). Form the force- meat into a mass -with two raw eggs. The flavour may be varied according to taste; an ,'^nchovy or oysters mav -be added, if liked. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Od. Forcemeat for Pheasant.—Take the livers of two fowls; see that they are sound, and that tho gall has been properly cleared away. Parboil them, and then pound in a mortar, with half a pound of grated ham, cooked, and witliout fat, thi-ee or four truffles, or mush- rooms, if the former caimot be had, half a tea- spoonful of minced parsley, and a shallot. Flavour with pepper, salt if required, and add a little nutmeg. Blend with the forcemeat three ounces of butter, and stuff' the bird. Time, five minutes to boil livers. Probable cost, exclusive of truffles. Is. 4d. Suflicicnt for one pheasant. Forcemeat for Pigeons. — Stir two ounces of butter till it is almost a cream ; blend with it foui" ounces of grated bread-crumbs, add a little parsley minced fine, lemon-peel, and nutmeg grated, with salt and pepper to taste. Bind with one beaten egg. Probable cost, 6d. Forcemeat for Quenelles. — This forcemeat may be composed of chicken, veal, game, or fish. Scrape the meat from a couple of rabbits, or the lean meat from a knuckle of veal, pound it in a moi-tar, and pass it through a wii-e sieve. Put back into the mortar three- quai'ters of a pound of meat, with half a poimd of good butter, and the same of milk panada ; mix, and poimd all together. Add to it a flavouring of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon- peel, both grated, and continue to pound while adding four or five well-beaten eggs. Much depends on the care employed in the prepara- tion of this forcemeat; it may be used as a stuffing, or moulded into quenelles. Forcemeat for Roast Pig.—Parboil a small onion, or two if the flavour be liked. Chop them very fine, with about half an ounce of powdered sage, five or six oimces of bread- crumbs, and a quarter of a poimd of good fresh butter. Flavoiir highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Bind with egg. Onions are not always used for this forcemeat; they may be left out altogether. Forcemeat for Turkey (Roast).— Take of lean veal, or the flesh of an old fowl, a couple of ounces; free it from skin and sinew. Pound it in a mortar, with two ounces of shred suet, the same of bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of minced parsley, a large tea-spoonful of lemon-thjone, an onion, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Flavour delicately with pepper and salt, and pound and bind together ■with two beaten eggs. A richer and better forcemeat is made by the addition of ham, tongue, ancho^'y, or the minced flesh, without the beards, of a dozen oysters. Pork sausage- meat is commonly used to stuff the crop. Forcemeat for Turkeys.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and pork, and mince them finely together; also cut into pieces a parboiled veal sweetbread, and mix with about three-quarters of a pound of each of the former meats. Add half a pound of bread panada, and tho same of warmed butter. Flavour with a littlo nutmeg, salt, pepner, and half an ounce of