cassell's cookery. xl fish, like a tui-Lot or good-sized brill, a little lobster coral sprinkled sparingly over the surface of the fish is the best method of making it ornamental. When lobster sauce is served with the fish this can generally be done; when there is no lobstei-, and the fish is served sinii)ly plain with melted butter, a little parsley not chopped up too finely will, with the cut lemon, form an admiral^le garnish whicli will in appeamnce be little inferior to the lobster coral. But we must again refer to a point previously mentioned, and that ia the whiteness of the fish. A fat turbot looks infinitely more tempting when it is of a snowy whiteness than one that is sent to table presenting a dii-ty appearance. Now this white appearance is much increased by the simple means of rubbing the fish over with a little lemon-juice—the efiect of acid lemon-juice is to slightly dissolve the outside impurities of the fish, which are then thi'own up in boiling, and removed bv skimming. In choosing a large turbot, avoid one with the backbone that looks red, as these fish rarely present that white appearance when boiled as those whose backbones when raw are white and colourless. We will now discuss or rather remind our readers of the general principles to be remembered in frying fish which we considered at some length in the early pages of this work. The principles are mainly these ;— Let the fat be boiling. Let the fat cover the fish. In prepai'ing fish for frying when eggs and bread-crumbs are used, take care first to dry the fish, secondly to flour it, then dip it in the wellheaien egg and sprinkle it with the dry bread-crumbs. Bread-raspings are very useful, but if the fat be deep and boiling are not really necessary. A few are, however, very useful to sprinkle over an accidental patch that may have mifortunately been made in removing the fish from the frying-pan. The almost universal fault with fried fish in private houses is that it is dried up and over-cooked. Indeed, many a supposed cook might go and receive an admirable lesson in that poor man's solace—a fried-fish shop. We are not certainly a nation of cooks like the French, but we are entitled to be justly proud of our fried-fish shops. The smell is not agreeable, but we have no hesitation in saying that a pennyworth of fried fish bought at one of these shops is better cooked and more palatable than the majority of dishes of fried fish met with in ordinary private establishments : the reason being that these places absolutely hoil the fish in hot fat, which is the one thing that renders the fish nice and soft. We next come to grilled fish, and tliere can be no doubt that the gi'ill somehow brings out a flavour that nothing else will. For instance, a fine fresh herring just out of the water cooked on a gridiron, what can compare to it ? Fish especially requii-es a clear fire. Take, for instance, filleted soles going to be done (I la Mattre d'hotel: unless the fire be quite clear, the fish will get smoky perhaps or look dirty. First, extra care must be taken to have the gridiron perfectly clean, as the white fish will show marks in a way that a chop or steak of course would not. As an extra precaution, therefore, I would recommend you to mb the gi-idii'on with a piece of mutton fat, and warm it. Then wipe it with a cloth, and see if any black remains. After this, again rub it with the fat, as it helps to prevent the fish from sticking and consequently bTirning, which it is very apt to do. The filleted pieces of solos- are first dipped in a little oil mixed with some chopped parsley and pepper and salt; the pieces are then placed across the gridiron, and if the fire be bright will look transparent, and directly this transparent appearance changes to an opaque one the fish is done. Underdone fish is extremely nasty, but, as we said, the universal fault is the other way—fish as a rule being as much overcooked as a boiled leg of mutton is generally undercooked. Another important point to be remembered in grilling li'.li