(196) EGG white that thoy may stand flatly, Mako till!/ dico of Horao cold chicken, Imin, boihjd boeti-oot, iind tho yolkb of tho ogge. Fill tho EQOS (k LA BONNE FBMUE). hollows with these up to the brim, and pile the dice high in the centre—two of ham and chicken, or separately, two of boiled beetroot, and two with the hard yolks. Arrange some neatly-cut lettuce on a dish, and place the eggs amongst it. Sufficient for three persona. Eggs (a la Carmelite).—Chop some sorrel, a little parsley, and two or three small boiled onions together; add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, chopped separately; season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little melted butter. Fill the whites of the eggs, which should be divided in halves, lengthways, with this mixture, and warm them thoroughly in a white sauce composed of two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pint of cream, with a blade of mace to flavour. If flour be used it should be only sufficient to prevent tha butter from oiling. Serve with a little lemon-juice squeezed into the sauce. Time, twenty minutes to boil eggs. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Eggs (a la Creme).—^To five or six eggs that have been well whipped to a froth add gradually half a pint of cream, and, while mixing, flavour with a tea-spoonful of salt. Butter a mould and pour in the mixture. It may be baked gently in the oven tiU set, or placed over a pan of boiling water. When turned out of the mould, a rich brown gravy should be poured round it. Probable cost, 2s. Eggs (a la Duchesse).—Flavour one quart of milk withvaniUa or orange-flower water; or, if preferred, boil it with lemon rind, cinnamon, and laurel-leaves till the flavour is extracted; sweeten to taste, and when boiling have ready tho whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Drop these from a spoon into the boiling nulk, turn the eggs until they are done, and then place them to drain. Send them to table in a glass dish, with a custard made with the yolks and some of the milk (with additional flavouring if required) poured over them. Time, two minuter to poach the whites. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Eggs la Fran9aise).—A very common and simple mode of dressing eggs is to slide them as if for poaching on to a well-buttered tin dish, and set them over the fire or in an oven until the whites are set. This is a favourite way of cooking thom in France and Germany, where eggs are plentiful and cheap. Time, four or iWo nunutcs to dress. Eggs {k la Gruyfere).—Melt a quarter of a pound of G-ruy ero cheese in a stowpan over a hIow fire, with a small quantity of butter, a quarter of a pint of veal stock, a seasoning of linoly-minced chives, parsley, grated nutmeg, and salt. Add, as soon as the cheese has been well stirred with tho other ingredients, four well-beaten eggs, and stir till the herbs are sufficiently done. Servo with sippets of toasted bread. Eggs (a ritalienne).—Break seven or eight eggs into a saucepan, with a bit of butter in it. Add the juice of a lemon, a glass of white wine, enough pounded sugar to make thom decidedly sweet, a pinch of salt, and any approved fla- vouring, as orange-flower water or cura(^a. Then proceed exactly as with scrambled eggs {see Eggs, Scrambled). When they are set without being hard, pile them on a hot dish, dust them well with sugar, and candy it a little either under a salamander or with a red- hot fire shovel. Eggs (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Slice and fry some Spanish onions in butter, but do not let them brown. Add a little flour, some hot milk, chopped parsley, salt, and white pepper, and let the sauce thicken. Cut some eggs that have been boiled for ten minutes into quarters, lay them into the sauce, and when hot, arrange the eggs neatly in a dish and pour the sauce over them. Eggs (a la Tripe).—Cut half a dozen onions in slices, let them fall into rings, and fry them in butter, without browning them. Take them up and put them aside. Mix a spoonful of flour with the butter to make a paste, and add milk or broth to make a smooth thick sauce. Put in the onions and stew them gently till tender. Remove the shells from the eggs, slice the white parts, and leave the yolks whole. Put the sUced whites into the sauce with the onions till hot. Serve in a hot dish and garnish with the uncut egg- yolks. Eggs (a la Tripe). Another way.—Boil six eggs for ten minutes, and throw them into cold water. Boil two Portugal onions. When partly done, change the water, and when quite done, peel and slice them. Simmer the slices of onion for another half-hour in milk, and add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Slice the eggs lengthways, and stir the sauce until it is smooth and as thick as cream, then put in the egg. Garnish the dish with sippets of toast, and serve with some newly-made mustard. Time to boil onions, two hours or more. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Eggs (a la Tripe). Another way.—BoU eight eggs hard, remove the yolks without breaking, and cut up the whites to a mine*. Lay the yolks in the middle of a dish, and the whites roxmdthem. Have ready some bechamel sauce, add a dessert-spoonful of "finely-cut parsley, and when hot, throw it over the eggs. Send to table garnished with croutons fried, or leaves of puff paste Time, ten minutes-to boU eggs. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficiont for four or five persons.