LAM LAM \ 354 ) sauce to table in a tureon :—Put two ounces of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of viuogai- into a saucepan, lot them simmer until the sugar is dissolved, then add a pinch of cayenne, and a wine-glassful of cLirot. Sinuner a quarter of an hour, and servo hot. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the lamb : it should bo broiled until brightly browned on both sides. Sufficient for three or fom- per- sons. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lamb, Breast of, Broiled (another way).—Take two breasts of lamb, trim them neatly, remove the tendons, and tie the joints to- gether. Simmer them gently, as in the last recipe, until the bones can be drawn out easily, then remove these, sprinkle salt and popper over the meat, and place it between two dishes. Put a weight on the top, and let it remain until cold. When wanted for use, cut the meat into neat pieces, brush these Over twice with egg and bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire until brightly browned on both sides. Dish them neatly, and send brown gravy and tomato or piquant sauce to table with them. Time, eight or ten minutes to broil the lamb. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lamb, Breast of, Collared,—Take a fine breast of lamb, remove the bones and gristle, and the outside skin, and lay it flat on the table. Strew a little salt and pepper over it, and spread upon it a mixture made as fol- lows :—Wash and bone five anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and with them the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; add the thin rind of half a lemon, finely miaced, half a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, six ounces of bread-crumbs, and a table- spoonful of minced parsley, llix thoroughly. Roll the meat round and round, tie it in a cloth, and bind it securely with tape. Boil it gently. When done enough, place the lamb imder a weight, and do not remove the tapes until quite cold. Time to boil, twenty minutes for every pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Lamb, Breast of, Rolled.—Take the bones out of a breast of lamb, being careful not to cut the upper skin. Put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with one clove, and a pint of stock or water. Let them simmer gently for gravy. JMake a quarter of a pound of good veal forcemeat, spread this upon the under side of the breast, then roll it round and round, and skewer it firmly and neatly. Put three ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, let it melt, then put in the breast of veal, and brown it brightly and equally all over. ^VTaen sufficiently coloured, strain the gi'avy from the bones upon it, add a little pepper and salt, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the meat is tender. A spoonful of brown- ing may be added, if required. Spinach or green peas may bo served with this dish. Time to stew, from one and a half to two hours, according to the size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb^ Breast of. Stewed.—Kemove the skin /rom a breast of lamb, cut the meat into neat pieces, strew a little popj^-r and suit over these, place them in a stowpan with af» much weak stock as will cover them, and lot them simmer very gently until tender. Drain the meat, and place it on a hot dish. Thicken tho gravy with a little flour and butter, add a glass of sherry or any other light wine, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Stewed mushrooms or cucumljors are a great imijrove. ment to this disli. Time to stew, about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sulii- cient for three or four persons. Lamb Chops and Potatoes.—Egg and bread-crumb some neatly-trimmed kmb chops, and fry them in tho usual way {nce Lamb Chops, Fried). For haK a dozen chops jtre- pare a pound and a half of potatoes. Boil and drain them, and beat them up with a fork, then add a quai-ter of a pint of boiling broth, or, failing this, milk. Beat well until quite smooth, pass the potatoes through a sieve, put them into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir briskly until they are quite hot. PUe the potatoes high in the centre of a hot dish, and place the chops round them in an upright posi- tion, one overlapping the other. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry the chops; forty minutes to prepare the potatoes. Probable cost of chops. Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb Chops. Broiled.—Cut the chops about half an incn thick, tiim them neatly, flatten them, remove the superfluous fat, place them on a hot giidii'on over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly bro\viied on both sides, turning them with steak-tongs when requii-ed. Season them with pepper and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Gamish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach are usually served ^vith lamb chops. -Time, eight or nine minutes to broil. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or three persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb Chops, Fried.—Cut a loin or neck of lamb into chops from half to three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Dip each one into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread- crumbs, flavoured as follows:—Mix three ounces of finely-grated bread-crum*bs with a salt-spoon- ful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind. Fry- the chops in good dripping imtQ lightly browned on both sides. Serv-e on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon or crisped parsley. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or three persons. Lamb Chops, Fried,with Parmesan. —Take some lamb chops from the loin or neck, as in tho last recipe. ]\Iix the bread-crumbs with a little gratec* Parmesan cheese, and dip these first into clarified butter and bread- crumbs, and afterwards into beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Fry tho chops as before imtil they are lightly browned on both sides, dish them in a circle, and send tomato .sauce to table in a tureen. Time, ten to fifteen minutes.