PBU FRIT ( 23S ) Pruit in Brandy.—First clarify as much sugar us will bo reqiiiied—allow one pound of sugar to every two pounds of fruit. Break the sugar into lumps, and dip them into cold water; this water will be sufficient for the clarifjong process. Put the moistened sugar into a preserving-pan, heat it slowly, and after it comes to a boil, simmer gently. When beads form on the surface, the liquid is ready for the fruit; lay in two-pounds of peaches, apricots, or plums, but only keep them in long enough to be softened; be careful they do not crack. Set them to cool for a few hours, then take out the fruit on a sieve to drain, and boil the syrup until it is thick; let it grow cold, and pour it, with an equal quantity of pale brandy, over the fruit, which should previously have been placed in glasses. Fruit Isinglass Jelly;.—Get the juice from China oranges and a little lemon-juice, or Seville orange-juice, about a quart in all— of the latter, however, only enough to give a pleasant sharpness. Strain the juice through a double muslin bag, and again through a flannel one. Have ready, in an enamelled saucepan, one ounce and a half of the best isinglass, dissolved in a little water ; stir in half a pound of finelj'-sifted sugar and a few bits of the orange-rind, and simmer and skim, but do not let the liquid boil; add the juice and simmer again ; then strain through muslin, made thick by being doubled three or four times. When nearly cold, fiU moulds with the jelly. It should be quite clear when turned out. If it is not BO, it may be clarified according to directions already given. (See Calf's Foot Jelly.) Fruit, Juice of.—For ordinary household purposes the fruit is better pulped. Squeeze out with a wooden spoon all the juice and pulp of any fruit, and strain it through a coarse wire sieve, which will not pass the skins or seeds. To every pound add four ounces of refined sugar. Put into pickle-bottles, and place them up to the neck in a pan of water. Boil, and let the bottles remain in the water till cold. Cork tightly and cover the corks with ■ rosin or wax. Time to boil, half an hour from the time the water commences to boil. To ascertain any required quantity of fruit juice for pre- serving, weigh it, for it is thus much more correctly tested than by measure. Weigh first the vessel intended to hold the juice, and then the juice itself. Fruit, Lemon, in Cream.—Rub off on lump sugar the rind of two lemons; add this, with the strained juice, to one pint of cream, six ounces of sugar, and one dessert-spoon- ful of brandy ; mix these ingredients weU together, and freeze them in an ice-pot, stirring them with a wooden spoon. Time, half an hour for the freezing process. Cost, 28. 6d. Enough for eight glasses. Fruit, Macedoine of.—Set a jelly mould into a pail of rough ice and salt, and arrange the fruits according to fancy, between layers of clear well-sweetened jelly, flavoured with some liquor, as noyeau or maraschino. If the jelly be poured into the mould an hour before it is required, the outside will 1* be sufficiently frozen, and the inner part will be as firm as can be desired. When removed from the ice-pail, turn out the jelly on a glass dish, first dipping the mould into tepid water, which will loosen it immediately. The mould should be covered while in the ice, and the top or cover hid from sight by more ice and salt. Fruit Pastes.—These pastes are prepared by stoning the fruits, and pulping them, after slowly boiling, through a sieve. The pulp is then returned to the pan to dry up the moistui-e, when sugar is added equal in weight to the paste; it is again mixed well, and di-ied slowly, until no impression can be made upon it. Spread out on plates, which should be wetted with brandy. When cold, store between layers of paper. Pastes made from elder fruit and black currants are excellent, considered medicinally. Fruit Pasties or Turnovers. —Boil down fmit* of any kind with a little sugar, and let it grow cold. Take one pound of puff paste; cut it into as many pieces as you require pasties; roU out in a circular form, and put the fruit on one half, turn the other half over on the fruit, and pinch the edge, which should be first wetted with white of egg. Raw fruit may be used, but in this case the paste must be thicker, and not quite so rich. Meat, or savoury pasties, form the principal food of the agricultural classes in Cornwall; but a mixture of meat, potatoes, and turnips is more generally used for their pasties. Time for fruit pasties, twenty minutes. Sufficient for one dozen and a half. Fruit Pie for Invalids.—The rich crusts usually made for fruit tarts are highly indigestible, and should not be eaten by delicate persons. As a light substitute for pastry, the following recipe will be found useful:—Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with rather thick slices of spongecake. If small ones be used, make only two slices of them, and lay the brown part downwards in the dish. Fill up with any seasonable fruit, and strew amongst it as much fine sugar as will be required to sweeten. Pour in water jiearly even with the fruit, and make a cover with the remaining slices of spongecake. Bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fruit Puddings.—Butter a mould or basin, and line it with a suet crust; three quarters of a pound of flour, with four ounce of suet, will do for this purpose. FiU with fruit, and put in sugar, with a little water if the fruit requires it. Add a cover of paste, and press the edges closely together. Tie down with a floured cloth and put into boiling water. Some persons prefer to boil a pudding in a cloth, and for some fruits—those without much juice— this answers very well. Dip the cloth into hot water; and the better to form the pudding, stretch the cloth in a basin, lay the paste over, and fill with fruit. Time to boil, one horn- and a half. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of fruit. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fruit Pudding Paste.—Chop six ounces of fresh suet as fine as can be, mix it with one pound of flour, and a little salt. Toucli it