( 467 ) OME ONI fresh eggs, lightly beaten, a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, half a small nutmeg, grated, the strained juice of a liirge lemon, half a pint of new uulk, and two ounces of fresh butter. Beat the mixture tlioroughly for ten minutes, then fry it over a gentle fire in the usual way. Sift powdered sugar over before serving. Time, about eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, lod. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet Souf9.e- — An omelet souffle should be served in the same dish in which it is baked, and should be sent to table with the greatest expedition after it is taken out of the oven, as it falls and grows heavy very quickly. Break half a dozen fresh eggs into separate bowls. Whisk four of the yolks, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of dry flour, three table- spoonfuls of finely powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, and any flavouring that may be preferred, such as grated nutmeg, lemon or orange rind, vanilla, &c. Butter the souffle- pan, to keep the omelet from sticking to it, whisk the whites of the six eggs to a firm froth, mix them lightly with the yolks, pour the mixture into the pan, and bake in a quick oven. When it is well risen and brightly browned on the top, the omelet is done enough. Sift a little sugar over it very expeditiously, and serve. Some cooks put a hot flannel round the pan to prevent its cooling on the way to the dining- room. Time to bake a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Omelet Souflae, Moulded—Take four fresh eggs, and break the yolks and whites into separate basins. Beat the yolks well, and mix with them two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a small pinch of salt, three macaroons finely-crumbled, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced canched-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of arrow- root. When these ingredients are thoroughly and smoothly mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pour the mix- ture into a weU-buttered, simply-marked mould, which should be so large that the omelet will no more than half fiU it, and bake in a mode- rate oven. When the souffle is set and lightly browned it is done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar over it, and serve as expe- ditiously as possible. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Omelet, with Cheese.—Prepare the eggs as for a plain omelet. Mix with them two ounces of finely-grated 'Pai-mesan cheese, a small pinch of salt, and two pinches of pepper. Fry the omelet in the usual way, and before folding it over strew an ounce of gruyere cheese finely-minced upon it. Fold, and serve immediately. Time, four or five minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet, with Cheese, Baked—Boat two eggs lightly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, three table-spoonfuls of now milk or cream, and two ounces of grated Parmesan. Pour the mixture into a buttered plate, bake in a quick oven, and serve immediately. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. Sufficient for two persons. Omelet, with Gravy.—Whisk half a dozen fresh eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped onions, and two table-spoonfuls of nicely-seasoned gravy. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a hot frying-pan over a gentle fire, and fry the omelet in it in the usual way. Serve it on a hot dish with half a pint of good gravj-- poured round it. Time to fry, six or seven minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons.. Onion.—This weU-known vegetable may be regarded either as a condiment or as an article of real nourishment. By boiling it is deprived of much of its pungent, volatile oil, and becomes agreeable, mild, and nutritious. It is not so wholesome either fried or roasted. There is no vegetable about which there is so much diversity of opinion as there is about the onion; some pei'sons hking a little of it in every dish, and others objecting to it entirely. Generally speaking, however, a slight flavouring of onion is an improve- ment to the majority of made dishes, but it should not be too strong. The smell which GAELIC. LEEK. ONION. arises from the esculent during cooking, and the unpleasant odour it imparts to the breath of those who partake of it, are the principal objections which are urged against it. The latter may be partially remedied by eating a little raw parsley after it. When onions are used for stuffing, the unpleasant properties belonging to them would be considerably les- sened if a lemon, freed from the outer rind but covered as thickly as possible with the white skin, were put in the midst of them, and thrown away when the dish is ready for the table. Onions may be rendered much milder if two or three waters are used in boiling them. Spanish onions are not so strong as English ones, and are generally considered superior in flavour. The_ largest are the best. Onions, as well as garlic, shalots, chives, and leeks, contain a prin- ciple called allyle, to which they owe their peculiar flavour. When young, the onion is