( 433 ) MUS MITS of wine and Aanegar extrac t some part of their poison, and taunin matter decomposes the gi-eatest part of it." (JSotanisfs Companion). In Pohmd and Russia there iue above thirty edible sorts of fungi in common use among the peasantry. They ai-e gathered in all the diiferent stages of their growtli, and used in various ways—raw, boiled, stewed, roasted; and, being hung up and dried in their stoves or chiiuneys, fonn a piui of their winter stock of provisions. Mushrooms (a la Bordelais). — Proceed in all respects as for gi-illed mushrooms, but servo with a sauce of oil or melted butter, in which are minced young onions, parsley, and a little garlic ; or serve with a sauce made by boiling the trimmings of the mushrooms in good brown gravy, seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt, and thickened with the yolks of eggs. Time to broil, about twelve minutes ; to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Mushrooms (ti la Casse-tout). — This mode of cooking mushrooms is borrowed from the French, as its name implies. Their hearth fires are particularly adapted for it. Place a baking tin on the hotheai-th, on which lay toast well buttered; cover with mushrooms, carefully cleaned, keeping the cup side uppermost, and placing upon each mushroom a bit of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Medium- sized flap mushrooms do best for this dish; they should be freshly gathered. A glass is some- times fixed closely over the mushrooms, but for cooking mushrooms in any quantity, an earthenware cover, with a flat top, to allow of the wood-embers being placed around and on it, is used. Serve on a hot dish. Time, ten to twelve minutes. Mushrooms (au Buerre). — Trim the stems, and rub two pints of button mushrooms with flannel dipped in salt. Put them in a stew- pan with three or four ounces of good butter, slightly browned, and stir them very gently, to get the butter well about them. Shake the pan over a moderate fire, that the mushrooms may not settle at the bottom. When they have well imbibed the butter, add a little poimded mace, salt, and cayenne, and cover closely by the side of the fire, to simmer until tender, when they Avill be found excellent without any other addition. Serve them hot on toast at breakfast or luncheon. If to be eaten cold, drain them from the butter, which may be used as flavour- ing for other dishes, and put them in a cool place, to he served next daj', but they will keep for several days. When mushrooms are plentiful, they may be kept thus prepared many weeks, in pots, with a little clarified butter run over the top to exclude the air. Warm up when required. Time, about twenty to twenty-five minutes altogether. Mushrooms (an Gratin). — Skin, wash, drain, and wipe dry some freshly-gathered flap mu.Mhrooms. Cut the stems to within a quarter of an inch, and fill the cup with the following seasoning :—Grated ham or bacon (rather fat), two ounces, shred shallot, half an ounce, a small Inmch of chopped i)arHloy, some th^me, a little powdered mace, and pepper and salt. Simmer the seasoning for five minutes in a little butter, and add the yolks of two eggs. Stand the mushrooms, well dredged ^^'ith browned crumbs (raspings), into a flat baking-dish, which should be well smeared with butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When done serve piled on a hot dish, with some brown sauce around the mushrooms. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, according to season. Mushrooms and Eggs {see Eggs and Mushrooms). Mushrooms, Baked or Broiled.—For either mode of cooking the flaps are best. We give the preference to baked mushrooms, because the whole of the juice is preser^'ed. Flap mushi-ooms should be washed and dried, and the tops peeled. Put them, without the stems, into a tin baking-dish, season with pepper, salt, and a veiy little pounded mace, if liked. Small bits of butter laid over the top will, with the juice that flows from them, be the only sauce required. Button mushrooms are best for stewing, pickling, or polling. Broiled mushrooms should be served on a hot dish, with a small piece of butter on each, and a few drops of lemon-juice squeezed over. Time, twenty minutes to bake, ten to twelve to broU. The probable cost will be Id. each. Sufficient, foui" medium-sized mushrooms to each person. {See also IMushrooms, Grilled.) Mushrooms, Buttered {see Buttered Mushi'ooms). Mushrooms, Dry.—Mushrooms prepared in this way will be found useful when fresh ones are not to be had. They ai'e prepared precisely like powdered mushrooms {see Mush- rooms, Powdered), but button mushrooms and just-opened ones do best. Do not draw their juice, but place them at once into a slow oven on white thick paper. They \vill shrink, and lose their round appearance, but if carefully done, and not burnt, they will be found ex- cellent for hashes, &c. They need only be put into the gravy when cold, and warmed iip, to swell to nearly their original size. Keep them in brown-paper bags hung near- the fire. Mushrooms, Edible and Poisonous, To distinguish.—Dr. Christison gives the following directions for distinguishing the es- culent from the poisonous varieties of fungi :— "It appears that most fungi which have a warty cap, more especially fragments of mem- brane adhering to their upper surface, are poisonous. Heavy fungi, which have an unpleasant odour, especially if they emerge from a vulva, or bag, are also generally hurtful. Those which grow in woods and shady places are rarely esculent, but most are unwholesome; and if they are moist on the surface they should be avoided. All those which grow in tufts or clusters from the trunks and stiunps of trees ought likewise to be shunned. A sure teat of a poisonous fungus is an astringent stryptic taste, and perhaps also a di.sagreeable but certainly a pungent odour. Those the sub- stance of which become blue soon after being cut, are invariably poisonous. Agarics, of an orange or rose red colour, and boleti, which are coriaceous, or corky in texture, or which have