(m) ISI ISI stock, and possoss the advantage of being made much raoro imsily aud (luickly. From iaiiigluHH especially, iiiaiiy wholosoino aud agreoablo dishoa may bo niado. It is, however, difficult to give tlio exact proportions to bo used, as isiiiglasH dilfers so much in tpiality. The host may be known by its dull-looking, hard skin, and by its requu-ing fully half an hour's boiling to dis- solve it. The commoner kinds dissolve very quickly, and may be known by their white, fine appearance. When good isinglass is used one ounce will stiii'on a pint and a half of jelly. Simmer tlio isinglass, until it is thoroughly dissolved, in a pint of water. Just before it is tiikon from the fire, add a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of cold water, and a lump of sugar. Lot all boil together two or three nainutes, and remove the scum care- fully as it rises. Strain through a jelly-bag, add wine, lemon-juice, sugar, and flavouring accord- ing to taste, and pour into a damp mould. Let the jelly remain in a cool place until it is finn. Gelatine is more frequently employed than isin- glass. Allow an ounce of gelatine f a pint of liquid. In cold weather, or when using small moulds, more liquid may be taken. Soak the gelatine for an hour, pour boiling liquid upon it, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Clarify with white of egg. {See Calf's Foot Jelly.) Isinglass Jelly , Constantia.—Dissolve an ounce of thebest isinglass in a pint of water. Put to it a quarter of a pound of good loaf sugar, and part of the rind of a Seville orange, pared thin so as to leave none of the white skin. Simmer over a slow fire, add nearly a pint of Constantia, strain through a muslin, doubled three or four times, and mould when cool, care- fully keeping back any sediment. As a general rule moulds should be soaked in water some two or three hours before they are used. Time, about fifteen minutes to sinmaer. Probable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for two moulds. Isinglass Jelly, Cranberry.—Mix a quart of cranberry-juice with a pint of isinglass jelly and half a pound of loaf sugar, boil it for five minutes, and, after straining, pour into a mould. Instead of isinglass, this jeUy is some- times made with ground rice as follows: —Strain the. juice of a quart of cranberries after they have been boiled; mix with it slowly enough ground rice to thicken it to the consistency of jelly; now boil it, taking care that the rice does not adhere to the bottom of the pan, add sugar to taste, pour iuto a mould, and, when cold, turn out on a glass dish, with a garnish of Devonshire cream. Probable cost of isinglass. Is. per ounce; ground rice, 3d. to 4d. per pound. Isinglass Jelly, Currant and Rasp- berry.—Bruise in a jar two pounds of red and one pound of white currants with a pint of red raspberries; place the jar in boiling water to extract the juice. BoU three-quarters of a pmt of water, two oimces of isinglass, and a pound of loaf sugar together, allow both the fruit juice, when strained, and the sweetened ising;lasH to cool, then mix equal quantities, pour into shapes and place the jelly in ice. Probable cost of isinglass, Is. per ounce. Isinglass Jelly, Fruit [see Fruit Isin- glass Jelly). Isinglass Jelly, Grape («« Ompe Iain. glass .lolly). Isinglass Jelly (Invalid Cookkuy).~A pleasant and nourishing jolly is made by boiling isinglass sliavings and a portion of the brown crust of a loaf soasoncid with Jamaica peppers. To an ounce of the shavings and a quart of boiling water, add a tea-sjjoonful of Jamaica, eppors, and the broad-crust, which should bo rown, but not black. lioil until it has wasted a pint. This jolly will remain good for some time. A spoonful may be put into soup, tea, or any other beverage. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Isinglass Jelly, Lemon.—Peel the rind of two lemons, without any of the white inner skin, and put it into an ounce and a half of isinglass clarified in a pint of water, and sweetened according to taste—say with half a pound of loaf sugar. Strain the juice of four large lemons, and pour it gently into the isinglass when cool. Pour it at once (the lemon-rind must be taken out, but the liquid need not be strained) into small moulds, or into one large one, and cover with ice broken small. This jeUy may be made from calFs- foot stock. Put to each pint the juice of three lemons. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 2s. The above ingredients are sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Isinglass Jelly, Lemon (another way). —See Lemon Isinglass JeUy. Isinglass JeUy, Orange.—To the juice of eight fine sweet oranges and four Seville, well strained, add an ounce and a half of isin- glass dissolved in boiling water, sweeten with six ounces of pounded loaf sugar, and stir it gently over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour the jelly into earthenware moulds when nearly cold, the moulds having been previously fiUed with cold water. Probable cost, 3s. Isinglass Jelly, Orange (another way). —See Orange Isinglass JeUy. Isinglass Jelly, Strawberry.-Take a quart of fine ripe scarlet strawberries, and pour over them a pint of water that has boiled for twenty minutes with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. The next day, drain ofi! thje syrup from the strawberries without bruising them, and, to increase the fruity flavour, add a little lemon-juice and half a pint of red currant juice. Clarify two ounces and a half of isin- glass in a pint of water, and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it with the fruit-juice and pour into moulds. It is desirable to place the moulds in ice. Probable cost, 2s. lOd., exclusive of fruit. Isinglass, To Clarify.—Allow one quart of fresh water, the beaten white of an egg, and two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice to each quarter of a pound of isinglass; mix these ingre- dients thoroughly, and put them into a sauce- pan; take care that the isinglass does noLbum at thp bottom of the pan, and remove the scum as it rises. Strain, and put aside for use. The isin- gliiss shoidd be quite clear. A number of excel- lent jollies may be made by extracting the juice from fresh fruit and mixing with it a httle isinglass, without huilintr. The flavour and colour are both better than when the juice la