MIL MIL rolled, cut it into any fanciful shapes with tin cutters. Brush the biscuits lightly over with egg, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for two pounds and a half of biscuit. Milanese Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a quai-ter of a pint of water, and beat until light the yolks of eight eggs. Sweeten a pint of fresh milk with four ounces of sifted sugar, and make it hot, when stir in the beaten yolks, and continue to stir over a slow fire until the mixture becomes thick, but on no account should it boil. Strata through a fine sieve, and add the dissolved isinglass, and a cup- ful of double cream. Flavour to taste with a small glass of rum, or liqueur—maraschino or cura(,'oa. Pour the cream into a mould, well- oiled, and let it stand for three hours in a cool place to set. Sufficient for one mould. Milanese Ice Cream.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a pint of cream, and half a pound of tinely-sifted sugar; add the mixture to two oimces of Naples biscuits reduced to powder in half a pint of milk. Put all into a bright ste%vpan, and stir imtil it is as thick as an ordinary custard, when it may be strained through a sieve. Add a glass of sherry wine when frozen, and then put it into a mould. Probable cost. 28. per quart. Time, a few minutes to boil the custard. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Milanese Hagout.—This ragout is used for garnishing purposes. Tongue, ham, chicken, game, with truffles, mushrooms, and macaroni are cooked and cut ofE as nearly of a uniform size as the different ingredients will permit, about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch broad. They are warmed up in white sauce with a mixture of grated Parmesan, and seasoned slightly with nutmeg and pepper. Milanese Sauce. — Dissolve a lump of butter in a stewpan, and brown in it some button-mushrooms chopped finely, a couple of anchovies washed and boned, and three or four shallots, which, Avith the anchovies, should be cut small. Shake all well round the pan, and stir in a table-spoonful of browned flour, then moisten with half a pint or more of good stock, and add a wine-glass^l of Marsala and caper- vinegar mixed, some capers, a small pinch of cayenne, a little salt, and the half of a tea- spoonful of made mustard. Simmer the sauce until the shallots, &c., are tender. Use as re- quired for salmon cutlets, &c. Time, twenty minutes to simmer. Milcou.—This is a South American pre- paration, forming a palatable and even elegant dish not unlike the Italian pastes. Potatoes and a species of pumpkin are roasted, the pulp taken out, and kneaded with salt and eggs. The paste is then rolled out, and cut into pieces about as large as a dollar. These are boiled in milk swootened for a quarter of an hour. MUes Standish's Pudding.—Beat well six eggs, yolks and whites separately. Mix with the yolks a pound and a half of curd made from new milk, and prepared with rennet. Beat the curd and eggs until smooth, then add a qiuirtor of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, an ounce and a half of citron sliced, and ten ounces of raisins, weighed after stoning (these last should be soaked for some hours in brandy). Stir in the whisked whites of the eggs, and bake in a mould well buttered, and sprinkled thickly with sifted bread-raspings. When done turn out, and serve hot with custard flavoured with brandy or rum. Time, an hour and thiee- quarters to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for a small mould. Military Puddings.—Mix well together haU' a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of moist sugar, and half a pound of finely-chopped suet. Mince the rind of a good-sized lemon, squeeze the juice, and stir it into the mixture. Place the puddings in small buttered cups or moulds, and bake for half an hour in a tolerably qxuck oven. If preferred, military puddings may be boiled, if so, they must be made into small baUs. In either case serve with lemon or wine sauce. Probable cost with sauce, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons, or to fill six or seven cups. Milk, Adulteration and Richness of. Tested. — For testing the richness of milk a very simple instrument has been in- vented, known as the lactometer, or galacto- meter. It consists of a glass tube graduated to a hundred parts. New milk is poured in as far as the top of the graduated pjirt and allowed to stand. When the cream has completely sepa- rated, the value of its quality is shown by the number of parts in the hundred which it fills. Another form of instrument has been invented by Doeft'el. In it we have a small hydrometer, with a scale two inches in length marked off into twenty degrees; the zero being placed at the point where the instrument sinks in water, and the twentieth degree corres- ponding with the density 1-0383. Doeffel's instrument is much in use on the Continent. Fourteen degrees is held to show milk una- dulterated with water. Milk, Almond (see Almond Milk, and also Orgeat, or Almond Milk).—A refreshing drink. Milk-and-Butter Cakes.—Take three- quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and as much milk as -will form a dough. Cut up the butter in the flour; add the sugar and spices by degrees. Stir in as much milk as will make a dough. Knead it weU, roll it out in sheets, cut in cakes, butter your tins, lay the cakes on so as not to touch, and bake in a moderate oven. Milk and Cream, To Preserve.— Add one ounce of sugar to one pint of milk, and boil it down to one-half. Run it into small bottles, and place them in a pan of cold water placed on a good fire. AUow the water to boil for an hour, and then, while still hot, close the mouths of the bottles with very good and tight-fitting corks, and let the contents become cold. When cold, dip the corks and necks of the bottles in a ladle containing melted sealing-wax or common pitch, so as to render