FOW (221) FOW and then again into bread-cnunbs, seasoned wth. pepper and sjilt. Fry them in butter until of a nice brown colour, and have ready a puree of tomato sauce to serve them on. Time, twenty nunutes to fry. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for thiee or four persons. Fowl (a la Remouladc).—Truss a fine fowl for boiling, lay sliced lemon on its breast, and tie slices of bacon over all. Put it into a stew- pan with some good stock, and put with it a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it stew gently till done enough. Take it out, and when cold cut it up into convenient- sized pieces. Place all in a salad-dish, with a sauce made of two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, rubbed till smooth, and mixed with salt and pepper, five large spoonfuls of oil, and two of tiirragon vinegar. Garnish with French beans and slices of hard-boiled egg intermixed. Pro- bable cost, 7s. or 8s. Sufficient for six persons. Fowl (a la Tartare).—Split open a large fowl into halves, and press it flat into a dish of clarified butter, the feet having been previously taken off, and the legs bent in. In ten minutes fry it in butter a pale brown, cool, then cover with fine bread-crumbs and beaten egg. Dip the fowl once more into the clarified butter and broil over a slow fire, taking care that it does not bum. It should be turned often. Serve with a brown gravy, flavom'ed with lemon-juice, and send sauce a la Tartare to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes to broil. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Fowl, Apicius Sauce for.—Thick sauce for a boiled chicken. Put the following ingre- dients into a mortar:—Aniseed, dried mint, and lazar root (similar to assafcetida); cover them with vinegar; add dates, pour in liquamen, oil, and a small quantity of mustard seeds; re- duce all to a proper thickness with port wine warmed; pour this over the chicken, which should previously have been boiled in aniseed water. Fowl, Blanquette of.—Put into a stew- pan half a pint of white sauce and a quarter of a pint of broth; when boiling, add some neat pieces of cold fowl and slices of tongue boiled, season with pepper and salt, cover closely, and let the fowl get hot in the sauce, but do not let it boil. Five minutes before serving stir in the well- beaten yolks of two eggs and about one table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice. One fowl sufficient for four persons. Fowl, Boiled.—Truss the fowl firmly, and boil slowly in a saucepan of hot water. The slower it boils and the better it is skimmed the plumper and whiter it wiU be. Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon should accompany it. Place the fowl on a hot dish, and pour over it bechamel, parsley and butter, oyster or mushroom sauce, with some more sauce in a tureen. Time : large fowl, one hour; moderate- sized one, three-quarters. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl, Boiled with Rice.—Into some clear broth put an onion, pepper, salt, and mace; stew the fowl very gently in this for half azi ho-r; then addlialf a pound of rice, well washed; simmer till this is quite tender, then remove the rice, and place on a hot sieve to drain; dish the fowl, and place rice all round it. Serve with melted butter and parsley for sauce; do not use too much broth. Time, one hour or longer. Fowl, Boned and Stuffed.-Pound together in a mortar, after being minced, equal quantities of fat bacon and lean ham (two ounces of each), and a double weight of veal. Mix a small cup of bread-crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Bind with the yolks of two eggs. Bone a fine fowl, without disfiguiing the skin, press this forcemeat into it; tie it into a nice shape, and stew in some white stock. It may be served with any white sauce, and with sliced lemon as a garnish. Time, one hour to stew. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Fowl, Boudin of (a la Eeine). — Take the whole of the white meat to be found on a couple of roast fowls, clear it well from skin and gristle, and mince smaU. Pound it well, and with a wooden spoon force it through a wire sieve. Make some white sauce with an ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, and a gill of stock. Put three table-spoonfuls of this sauce ■^ith the chicken, then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and pepper and salt, and beat over the fire till thick. Spread the mixture on a dish; when cold form it into large quenelles (see Quenelles), and poach these in the usual way. Serve round mashed potatoes to keep them firm, and with white sauce made from the last recipe given under Bechamel. Fowl, Braised.-—FUl a nice young fowl with forcemeat, after removing the breast-bone. Put it into a stewpan, with a pint of broth, two glasses of white wine, any available poultry trimmings and bones, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of carrot, and two or three blades of mace, pepper, and salt. Lay thin slices of bacon over the fowl, and envelope it in a delicate cloth. Cover the braising-pan over, and place it on a moderate fire. In an hour's time take out the fowl, and brown it in the oven. Strain the gravy in the stewpan, boU, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the fowl. Garnish with a fricassee of mush- rooms and truffles if these are at hand. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Fowl, Braised, with Beef and Chestnuts.—Take a piece of the upper side of the round of beef, about one pound and a half, and rub it with a pickle made with the following ingredients :—Half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a salt-spoonful of mustard, the same of gi-ated nutmeg, a piece of garlic, about the size of a pea, half a gUl of some good sauce, either Worcester or Harvey, a table-spoonful of oil, and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the beef stay in and be basted with this pickle for ■ twenty-four hours. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan, with the heart of a celery-root, a carrot, and two shallots. When drained from the pickle, lay in the beef, and place a fine fat fowl, trussed for boiling, on it; cover tlie bretist with butter, and six goocl-Kiznd sJicos of