GAM GAM ( 238 ) Gamo, Black (a la Koyale).—Pick, di-aw, and tihv^o ii black cock (this nuiHt bo douo carofully, as tho skin ia oanily broken). Truss it liko a pheasant, lay it before a dear lire, basto it plentifully witli butter, and, when sufficiently cooked, serve it on a slico of toast which, after BLACK OAUE. being flavoured with lemon-juice, has been placed in the dripping-tin under the bird for some minutes. Garnish with water-cresses and some forcemeat balls, made of game. Good gravy should be sent to table with it. This bird should not be cooked until it gives decided indications of being ready for it. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to roast. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 5s. the brace. Seldom offered for sale. Game, Crumbs for.—Take the crumbs of a stale roll, pass through a wire sieve, dry, then place in a stewpan, with one ounce of fresh butter. Place them on a slow fire, and move them about with a wooden spoon tUl they are a bright brown. Put them on paper to drain, and hand them round on a separate dish. They are especially required when the game is rather high. Time, a few minutes to brown. Game Curry.—Take one or more wild birds, according to the size of the dish you require. Cut them into convenient-sized joints, rather small than large, and fry these in hot butter till lightly browned. Score the joints slightly in one or two places, place a little curry-powder in each opening, and squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Cover the joints with good brown gravy, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Allow a table-spoonful of curry-powder, a dessert- spoonful of the pounded kernel of a cocoa-nut, a dessert-spoonful of the pulp of an acid apple and a quarter of a pint of good gravy to every pound of meat. Sinamer a quarter of an hovir longer. Serve with rice round the dish. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, one mode- rate-sized bird for two persons. Game, Essence of.—Take the remains of cold game. Divide them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with two or three ounces of butter, four shallots, finely minced, a sprig of thyme and basil, three cloves, and six peppercorns. Fry gently until they are brightly browned, then add a pint of atook, and boil on a gentle file for twenty iiiinutes, Stram tliruugh a sieve, and put aside for use! Probable cost, exclusive of the c<jld game, 6(1. Two table-spoonfuls of the essence will liavour liall' a ])int of gravy. Game, Forcemeat for.—'J'ake a quarter of a pound each of fat liacon, calf'ts liver, and fi.-iely-grated bread-crumbs. Cut the meat into hiiuUI pieces, and fry them until half cooked, then chojj them small, put tluiiri into a mortar, and pound them with thi: crumbs, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoon- fnl of ])eppor, and a ])inch of ]>owdered mace. Whcm well ^wundtjd, add the well-beaten yolkK of two eggs, and if these are not sufficient to bind all together, add a little cream. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Game, Hashed.—Take the remains of any cold game. It will be all the better for being under-dressed. Cut it into convenient- sized joints, and cover them, to keep them from getting dry and dusty. Put the trimmings into a saucepan, with a breakfast-cupful of stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, half a dozen peppercorns, and an onion stuck with two cloves; thicken with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a littio butter, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer gently by the side of the fire till the sauce coats the spoon. Strain the mixture, add a glass of port wine, put in the pieces of game, and let it simmer for ten minutes longer. It must not boil. Put the game on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with toasted bread. Care should be taken to remove the soft part inside moor game, if it is very high, or it will make the hash bitter. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold game and wine. Sufficient, one pound of meat for two persons. Game. Hashed (Venison).—Cut the remains of venison into convenient-sized pieces, about half an inch in thickness. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and mix with it, very smoothly, two oxmces of fine flour. Let it remain on the fire till slightly browned, then add a breakfast-cupful of good stock, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and eight or ten oysters, with their liquor, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and four table-spoonfuls of milk. Let it simmer till the sauce coats the spoon. Add a glass of port wine and the shces of venison. Let the sauce simmer again till the venison is thoroughly heated; but the sauce must not boil, or the meat will be tough. Serve on a hot dish, with some toasted sippets. Time, about one hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Suffi- cient, two pounds of meat and this quantity of sauce for four or five persons. Game in Aspic Jelly.—Make as much aspic jelly as will fill your mould. Put a little at the bottom, let it stiflten, then arrange in it the remains of cold game, cut into naat ]>ieces, and alternately with them slices of pink ham, pieces of hard-boiled eggs, or anything that wiU add to the appearance. Do not crowd the meat, but leave room for the jelly to go