HAM HAM ( 294 ) hajn, twenty-fivo minutes to tho pound is suffi- cient, counting frojn tho time the water boiln • for an old one, twenty-eight ininuteH. Add a quarter of an hour for every pound over twelve. A piece of ham 6 lbs. weight, three hours. Ham, Boiled (another way). — Proparo the hiim as above. l»ut it into a saucepan, and with it a quart of boor, a pint of vinegar, and as much water as will just cover it. Carrots and sweet herbs must not bo omitted. CalcuLato the time which will be required to cook it according to the rule given in tho last rccipo, and let the ham bo simmered two-thirds of tho time, and baked in a moderate oven for tho rest. It must be skinned and covered with bread- crumbs before it is put into tho oven. Time, from thi-ee to five hours, according to size. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Ham, Braised (a la Fran9aise).—Trim, soak, and prepare the ham in the same way as for boiling. Wrap it in a cloth, and put it in a braising-pan with plenty of cold water, three or four green onions, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and four cloves. Calculate the length of time which will be required to cook it (seeHam, Boiled), and, when it is done enough, drain it, and put it into the pan again, with a bottle of Madeira or sherry. Simmer gently for half an hoiir. Let it cool in the saucepan, and glazo the ham. Time, from three to five hours, according to its size. Probable cost, Is, per pound. Ham, Broiled.—Slices of ham for break- fast may be either broUed on a gridiron, toasted, or fried. They are, we thmk, best when toasted on a fork. If broiled, the fire must be very clear. The ham should not be more than 'the eighth of an inch in thickness, and is better when soaked in hot water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before being cooked. Turn it as it gets crisp. Time, five or six minutes to broU. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Ham, Burgundy, Mode of Pre- paring.—Soak and boil a ham as usual, but a trifle under the time generally allowed. Take it up, drain it, take off the skin, and trim it neatly. Put it into a deep baking-dish, the fat side uppermost, and pour over it some boiling sauce, made of a pint of good stock, three ounces of sugar, and a bottle of wine (Madeira is the kind generally preferred). Put the dish in a hot oven, until the gravy is considerably reduced, and the ham glazed to a bright brown colour. Send good brown sauce and onion sauce to table with it. Time to boil, twenty minutes to the pound; to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost of ham, Is. per pound. Ham, Choosing a.—In choosing a ham, look out for one with a smooth skin, sweet smeU, and with the flesh adhering firmly to the bone. It is best to probe it ^vith a sharp knife ' down the knuckle, and near the thigh-bone, and if, when the knife is withdrawn, the smell is fresh and savoury, and the blade clean, the ham is good; if the contrary is the case, it is bad. York hams are generally considered the best. 1 Cured.—Do not let tho pig be kiUod m either damp or frosty weather, and remember tliat if it is not fully twelve monthn old, the ham will not be good. Let the 1mm hang a day or two aftor it is cut up, sprinkle a Jittlo salt over it, and let it di-ain for another day. Uulj over it very thorougJily a quarter ot a pound of saltpetre, two pounds of salt, and a pound of tho very coarscist sugar. Lay it, rind downwards, in a dish, put tlie salt on the iiushy parts, baste it frequently with tho brine wliich runs from it, and turn it every other day. It must remain for four weeks; at the end of that time drain it, and throw some bran over it. It is now ready to be either smoked or hung. If smoked, oak, green birch, or juniper, should be burnt under it; pine shavings would spoil tho flavour. If it is to be hung, let it be in a cool place ; watch it carefully, and if any part should get rancid and yellow, scrape it off, and rub the place with pepper, salt, and flour, mixed together in equal proportions. Three months should elapse before the ham is cut. If it is hung in a hot place, the ham will be hard and dry; if in a very cold one, it will be a longer time before it is ready to cook. If hams, when hung, seem not likely to keep weU, they should be put into the pickle again, and kept there till wanted, and used as soon as con- venient. If the brine should become sUmy and disagreeable, it should be boiled, or, better still, a fresh pickle made. Probable cost of ham. Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (an easy way}.—Take five ounces of salt, five ounces of bay salt, an ounce and a half of black pepper, an ounce of salt- petre, and three-quarters of a pound of coarse sugar. Dry these ingredients before the fire, pound and mix them thoroughly, and rub the mixture well into the ham. Turn and baste it every day for a month. Drain dry, and hang the ham in a cool, dry, airy place; or, if conve- nient smoke it. Two or three hams can be cured in one tub, this proportion of pickling ingredients being put to each. The hams should change places every other day, from the top to the bottom. Probable cost of ham. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a ham weighing fourteen pounds. Ham, Cured (in the Yorkshire way).— Lot the ham hang for twenty-four hours after the hog is cut up, sprinkle a handful of salt over it, and lay it on a board to drain. For a ham weighing fourteen or sixteen pounds, take one pound of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, an ounce and a quarter of saltpetre, and half an ounce of moist sugar. Dry these well before the fire, pound them in a mortar, mix them thoroughly, and rub them into every part of the ham. Let it lie four days, turning it every day, then pour over it a pound of treacle, and leave it for three weeks; turn it regularly, and baste it frequently. At the end of that time put it into cold water for twenty- four hours. Wipe it very dry, and hang it in a cool, drj', airy place. Probable cost of ham, Is. per pound. Ham, Cured (JI. Tide's recipe). — As 8oon as the pig is sufficiently cold to be cut