( 297 ) HAM HAM unpalatable pieces have been removed. Spread a little mustard on tlio ham, and place another slice of bread and butter on the top. Press them together, and cut into pieces about two and a half by two inches. Arrange them neatly on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Sandwiches ai-e very good made with potted ham, instead of plainly-boiled ham. Probable cost of boiled ham, 2s. 8d. per pound. Ham Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, &;c.—Take the bone of a ham, from which no more slices can be cut. Pick oflf all the meat, and chop the bone into five or six pieces. Put it in a saucepan with half a pint of good un- flavoured stock. Simmer gently for half an hour, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning. Add a bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, andanother half-pint of stock, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer again very gently for two hours. Strain, and put aside for use. This sauce will be found very useful in flavouring gravies, sauces, &c. A little ham improves them so much that it is worth while keeping a ham in cut for no other purpose {see Gravy, To Improve the Colour and Flavour of). Probable cost, 3d. per half-pint, exclusive of the ham-bone. Ham Sauce for Grills and Broils.— Put two ounces of lean ham, already dressed, cut into small dice, into a saucepan with an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of finely- minced shallots. Fry them for two or three minutes, then add half a pint of. good brown sauce, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little cayenne. Stir these over the fire for six or eight minutes, and, just before serving, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Suitable for grills and broils. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for half a pint of sauce. Ham Sausages, Smoked. German. —Take five pounds of lean pork, minced as finely as possible. Mix with it a pound of fat, also minced, but not quite so smaU, and season it with half an ounce of pepper, the eighth of an ounce of saltpetre, and three ounces of salt. Add the seasoning gradiially, while the meat is being chopped, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of claret or Burgundy. Let the meat stand for six or eight hours in a cool place. Fill the skins, properly prepared, as tightly as possible, pressing the meat down, and not leaving any portion of space unoccupied. To insure this, they should be left for some hours, and then pressed down again. Wind a piece of new tape round them backwards and forwards once, tie it at the end, and hang the sausages in cool smoke for twelve days. They should be from ten to twenty inches in length. They are usually eaten raw, after being kept about a month; but, if it is preferred, they may be simmered gently in water for an hour either before or after smoking, but they must not quite boil. I'ime, two or three days to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Ham Scollops.—Cut a pound of ham in scollops a quarter of an inch thick, three inches long, find two broad. Fry them in hot butter until lightly browned on each side, drain them froiri the ffit, and put them on ii hot dish. Pick the leaves from a sprig of young parsley, wash K* it in two or three waters, chop it small, and put a table-spoonful into a saucepan, with three ounces of fresh outter, a little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put the mixture on the hob, not on the fire, and keep stirring until it is as thick as custard. Pour it over the scollops, and serve. Time, six minutefl to fry the ham. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Ham, Smoked, Mecklenburg.—In Mecklenbui'g it is usual, after boiling the ham and removing the skin, to sprinkle oVer it bread-crumbs, browned and seasoned Avith powdered cinnamon, powdered cloves, and a morsel of sugar. The proportions are regulated by taste as well as by the strength of the spices. Generally speaking, two cloves, half an inch of cinnamon, and a large lump of sugar would be considered sufficient for a moderate-sized ham. Ham Smoked at Home.—When there is no chimney which can be used for the pur- pose, hams may be smoked as follows:—Fill an old cask, open at both ends, with oak sawdust. Fasten a stick across the top, on which the hams should be hung, and bury in the middle of the sawdust a bar of red-hot iron. Cover the cask, to keep in the smoke, and let the heat be as equal as possible, or the ham will be spoilt. The length of time required ynR de- pend upon the size of the ham. A large one should remain four days. Ham Toast.—Take three ounces of lean ham. Chop it very small, and mix it with the beaten yolk of an egg. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, and, when it is melted, stir in the ham and egg, season with cayenne, and, when the mixture is quite hot, spread it upon a slice of hot buttered toast. Serve at once. Time, three or four minutes to heat the ham, &c. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 6d. Ham and Chicken Patties.—Line as many small patty-pans as you require with puff-paste. Lay a crust of bread in each, put on the Lid, brush over with well-beaten egg, and bake them in a quick oven, until deli- cately browned. While they are baking, take some ham and chicken, previously finely minced, and freed from sinew and skin. Of this, two-thixds should be chicken, and one-third ham. Flavour nicely with grated lemon-rind, salt, and cayenne. Put the meat into a sauce- pan, with good gravy sufficient to moisten it, squeeze over it a few drops of lemon-juice, and when the patties are sufficiently baked, cut out the top, remove the bread, put in a little of the mince, place the lid over it, and serve, piled on a hot napkin, and garnished according to taste- Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 3d. each. One pound of flour and three- quarters of a pound of butter will make suffi- cient paste for two dozen patties. Ham and Chicken, Potted {see Chicken and Ham). Ham and Chicken Sandwiches {see Chicken and Ham Sandwiches). Ham and Egg Patties.—Take a stale quartern loaf, remove the crust, and cut the crumb into thick slices, an inch and a half