Ixxvi cassell's cookery. There is one point in connection with dinner that should never be forgotten, and that is the importance of having a 7,imu. When the dishes are not placed on the table a nienn is absolutely essential ; and evan when the dishes are placed on the table it is always desirable to know—tirat, what the dishes are; secondly, what is going to follow. In many private houses a menu is omitted Ijecause the Lost and hostess think that having one has the appearance of ostenti\tion. This is, however, a very mistaken notion. How often do pei-sons pass by i)erhaps theii- favourite dish simply because they have taken something before, not knowing it was coming. Again, how often would some small eaters decide on say a second piece of mutton or not according to whether game would follow ! There is a story told of some great gourmand, who was taken in by a friend in the following manner :—A leg of mutton waa placed on the table, and the gourmand was informed that he saw his dinner before him, and, as was his wont, he accordingly ate freely, while his so-called friend scarcely touched a mouthful. What the gour- mand's feelings were when a tine splendid haunch of venison followed the mutton can better be imagined than described. He is reported, however, to have said, " It was a cruel thing not to have told me." Whether such a piece of exquisitely bad taste was ever perpetrated or not we don't know, but the story serves to illus- trate our point aljout the menu, as without one recollect, to a lesser extent, the guests are treated like the unfortunate gourmand. Little decorated sheets of paper are now sold for the purpose, and form an additional ornament to the dinner-table. When all the plates and glasses are cleared off the table, it is customary for all the cnimbs likewise to be removed; for this, however, avoid usuig those useless things called crumb-brushes, which are the means too often of sending nearly as many crumbs on to the floor as on to the tray—as when the brush is used quickly the bristles bend and cause the crumbs to fly over the edge. There is a small silver shovel now used for the purpose, which is far better, and when one of these is not at hand, an ordinary table-napkin will answer very well. COFFEE. Before coming to that most important subject, wine, let us have a few words to say about coffee. Coffee, we all know, grows in tropical climates, ^nd not in France, yet how is it that in that country we almost invariably get a good cheap cup of coffee, and yet in this country we rarely do 1 On the other hand, it seems equally strange that the French have not the power to make an ordinary cup of tea. Such at least is my experience of the greater pai-t of France. I believe the two cliief causes of the usual superiority of French coftee over English is that the former always have their coffee fresh roasted as well as fresh ground ; secondly, that they use a good deal more coftee than we do. The too common custom in England is to buy the coffee x-eady ground from a grocer's. This when kept in a tin will make very fair good coffee, but after a time it loses its aroma. To get coffee absolutely fresh roasted is not so easy a matter in this country, but it will always be found an improvement to put the berries for a short time into the oven before grinding them. There is such an infinite variety of machines for making coffee that we cannot possibly enumerate them all. The best method I know of is the ordinary percolator. The coffee-pot must of course be first made thoroughly hot, and the sti-ainer carefully cleansed from what has been in before. The coffee is then placed in the top receptacle