ORE ( 161 ) CRB Then fry the fritters a light hrown, both sides aUke, and serve them quickly, with wrne sauce and fine powdered sugar. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Time, four to five minutes to fry. buffiaent for five or six persons. Cream, ItaUan—Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a spoonful of milk. Make a custard with half a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs and a little sugar. Stir in a few drops of vaniila, and a spoonful of brandy for fiavourmg. When cool, add the dissolved gelatine, and half a pint of cream which has been whisked till it thickens. Put it into a well-oiled mould, and set it on ice, or, if preferred, serve in glasses. Double cream, or cream that has stood twenty- four hours, should be used for making creams. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a large mould. Cream, Lemon.—Rub the thin rind of a lemon on a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and squeeze over it the juice of two lemons, and add two glasses of sherry. Let it stand for nearly an hour. Strain the syrup, and pour over it one pint and a half of cream which has been boiled and slightly cooled. Pour it rapidly from one jug to another, till it is thoroughly mixed, and a little curdled. Serve in custard- glasses. Probable cost, with cream, 2s. 8d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for ten or twelve glasses. Cream, Lemon (another way). — Put one pint of cream into a scrupulously clean saucepan, with foiir table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, the thin rind of a lemon, and simmer till pleasantly flavoured. Dis- solve an ounce of isinglass, and add this to the cream when cool, together with the yolks of two eggs weU beaten. Strain the liquid into a jug; put the jug into a saucepan of cold water, place this over a slow fire, and stir it constantly until it thickens; it must not boiL When nearly cold, add the juice of the lemon. Pour the cream backwards and for- wards for a few minutes until the juice is well mixed. Put it into a well-oiled mould, and keep in a cool place until set. Turn it out be- fore serving. Good cream may be made of Swiss milk; if this is used, the sugar must be omitted. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 28. lOd. with cream, Is. 8d. with Swiss milk. Sufficient for one pint and a half mould. Cream, Lemon (another way).—Peel three lemons, and put the thin rind with a quart of new milk into a saucepan. Add six or eight blanched almonds, half a pound of sugar, and an ounce and a half of gelatine which has been soaked in a little water. Let all boil gently for a few minutes, cool the milk a little, and mix it gradually with the yolks of six eggs. Pour it from one jug to another till nearly cold, then add the juice of the lemon, pour it again backwards and forwards, put it in a well-oiled mould, and let it stand in a cool place until ready to turn out. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Sufficient for a large mould. Cream, Lemon (another way).—Peel three lemons, and be careful to leave the -v^tiite pith untouched. Soak the thin rind in a quart of milk, and leave it until pleasantly flavoured. Then add the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and a pint of water sweetened with a quarter of a pound of sugar. Strain the milk, and simmer it over a gentle fire until it becomes ot the consistency of cream, and pour it into ielly-glasses. Time, ten minutes to simmer the cream. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for one dozen and a half glasses. Cream of Rice Soup.—This is made by thickening some good stock with ground nee. The rice should be mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and added to the boiling stock. Cream, Orange.—Soak the thin rind of three oranges in a pint of mUk till the flavour is extracted. Strain the milk, and boil it, then pour it boiling hot upon half an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in cold water for an hour. Stir it until dissolved, sweeten it agreeably and keep stirring occasionally tiU cool, to prevent a scum forming. Pour the cream into a damp "mould and let it remain till set. Turn out and serve. Cut the soaked nnd into thin strips. Boil these in syrup to which the orange juice has been added, and pour both rind and syrup over the cream when it is turned out. Cream, Orange (another way).—Peel away the white part from the _ rinds of four SeviUe oranges, and put them, with four ounces of loaf sugar and the clear juice, into a basin. Pour on the mixture a pint and a half of boiling water. Let it stand for two hours, then strain, and mix tl e liquid with four eggs well beaten. Put all into a saucepan, and simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the cream thickens; it must not boil. Serve in glasses, and put a strip of candied orange peel at the top of each glass. If preferred, lemons may be sub- stituted for oranges. Time, about ten minutes to simmer. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for ten or twelve glasses. Cream Pancakes.—^Whisk thoroughly the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs. Add a small cupful of thick cream, a little sugar, and sufficient flour to make a good batter. Put with it a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Fry in the usual way. This and all other batters are better made two or three hours before they are used. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two or three persons. Cream, Patissiere.—Beat one ounce of fine flour very smoothly and gradually with three well-beaten eggs, and add, a little at a time, a pint of boiling milk, or cream and milk, or cream only. Sweeten it with some lumps of sugar which have been rubbed on fresh lemon- rind, and heat the mixture over the fire, stirring all the time, until it thickens; but it must not boU. This cream is used by the French instead of our cold custard, and is very good made as above, but an ounce and a half of crushed ratafias, or a little brandy, will improve it, and it may then be used for tartlets, cannelons, small vol-au-vents, &c. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Probable cost, 8d., made with milk. Cream Pudding, Rich.—Put the thin rind of a lemon into a pint of cream, bring it slowly to a boil, and pour it over the finely-grated