( 407 ) MAB MAP it is made to the consistence of molasses, since, if this is done, it is impossible to convert it into sugar; a tough, black, sticky mass, of little value, being the result. Indeed, the utmost care and attention are required to produce a tirst-rato article; for though sugar may bo made in almost any way where the sap can be procured, yet, unless the utmost care is observed in the processes—in gathering and boiling the sap, clarifying the syrup, and in converting the syrup to sugar—a dirty, inferior article will be the result, instead of the beau- tiful and delicious sweet which the maple, properly treated, is sure to yield. Maple Sugar, To Make (another way). —The following process produces a most beau- tiful article. It is described by a gentleman who gained the first premium at the State Fair, at Rochester, in 1843, to the committee on maple sugar of the New York State Agricul- tural Society :—" In the first place, I make my buckets, tubs, and kettles, all perfectly clean. I boil the sap in a potash-kettle set in an arch in such a manner that the edge of the kettle is defended all round from the fire. I boil through the day, taking care not to have any- thing in the kettle that wiU give colour to the sap, and to keep it well skimmed. At lught I leave fire enough under the kettle to boil the sap nearly or quite to syrup by the next morning. I then take it out of the kettle, and strain it through a flannel cloth into a tub, if it is sweet enough; if not, I put it into a cauldron-kettle, which I have hung on a pole in such a manner that I can swing it on or off the fire at pleasure, or boil it till it is sweet enough, and then strain it into the tub, and let it stand till the next morning. I then take it, and the sjTup in the ketllo, and put it all together into the cauldron, and sugar it off. I use, to clarify, say, 100 pounds of sugar, the whites of five or six eggs, well beaten, about one quart of new milk, and a spoonful of saloratus, all well mixed with the syrup before it is scalding hot. I then make a moderate fire directly under the caiildron, until the scum is all raised, then skim it off clean, taking care not to let it l)oil so as to rise in the kettle before I have done skimming it. I then sugar it off, leaving it so damp that it will iniin a little. I let it remain in the kettl'o -uitil it is well granulated. I then put it into boxes, made smallest at the bottom, that will hold from fifty to seventy pounds, leaving a thin piece of board fitted in, two or three inches above the bottom, which is bored f uU of small holes to let the mola.sses drain through, Avhich I keep drawn off by a tap through the bottom. I put on the top of the sugar a clean damp cloth, and over that a board, well fitted in so as to exclude the air from the sugar. After it has done draining, or nearly so, dissolve it, and sugar it off again, going through with the same process in claiifying and draining as before." Maraschino Cairs Foot Jelly {sec Calf's Foot Jolly, Maraschino). Maraschino Ice Cream.—Mix one gill of maraschino with a pint and a half of cream and six ounces of sifted sugar. Whip the cream, then freeze. The above quantities are sufficient for one quart. Time, according to the mode of freezing. Maraschino Jelly.—Squeeze the juice from an orange, lemon, and peach. Strain and add it, with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, to twelve ounces of fine sugar, on which the rind of part of a lemon has been rubbed oft". Dissolve the sugar with a wine-glassful of water, and boil until it is reduced to a rich syrup, when add it to a pint and a half of good strong caU's-foot stock, half a pint of maraschino, and the frothed whites and crushed shells of eight eggs. Simmer for a few minutes, then pass it through the usual jelly-bag until quite clear. While in a liquefied state, but cool, pick the stems from some fine rich-coloured strawberries, thiow them in, and moiild the jelly. The ker- nel of the peach, crushed, or a bitter almond, may be simmered with, the jelly. Time to simmer, ten to fifteen minutes. Sufficient for two moulds. Maraschino Syrup.—Strain the juice of a large sweet orange, and pour it, with a wine- glassful of water, over three ounces of sugar; boil it to a rather stiff", bright syrup, and skim, adding a quarter of an ounce of blanched bitter almonds and a small quantity of lemon-rind, or the quarter part of a lemon may be rubbed off on lumps of sugar. When clear and thick, strain, and serve with a wine-glassful of maraschino stirred into it. Marble Jelly.—Prepare for carrying out this recipe a jeUy that will be colourless, and oil weU a mould, which nearly fill with rough lumps of bright-coloured jelly of varied sizes. Arrange the limips like rock-work, and tastefully as to colour. Orange, strawberry, and apple-jelly do well for this. Run the colourless jelly, when cool, but in a liquefied state, into the mould, and when set, turn out. We give the recipe for Silver Jelly, which is the one we would recom- mend, as being without colour. Rub oft" the essence from tho rind of two lemons upon lumps of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, and crush the shells. Simmer over the fire an ounce and a half of tlxe best isinglass, dissolved in a pint of water, adding the sugar, eggs, &c., and half a pint of lemon-juice, strained. When the jelly has simmered for a few minutes, pour in a pint of maraschino, and simmer a few minutes longer, when it must be aUoAved to stand, without being disturbed, before it is passed through the jelly-bag. If not clear the first time, return it to the bag—it should in the end be like crj-stal. From ten to tweh'e ounces of sugtir wiU be required to sweeten this jelly. Marchioness Pudding. — Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff' troth, and eight ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add to the creamed butter eight ounces of finely-powdered loaf sugar and the same weight of grated cocoa-nut. Stir in t'le eggM, and fill a well- buttered tin mould. Bake in a quick oven. This pudding is to be eaten hot or cold. Or, lino the mould with a rich paste, made as foUows:—Rub into four ounces of fresh butter, turned to cream, a quarter of a pound of Uuft