BEE BEE (63) Beef, Brisket of, To Caive —The necompanving engraving represents the appear- ance of a brisket of beef ready for table. There BRISKET OP BEEF. is no difficulty in carving it. The only thing to observe is that it should be cut cleanly along the bones, in the direction indicated by the dotted line, with a firm hand, in nioderatel3''-thick slices. Cut it close down to the bones, so that they may not have a rough and jagged appear- ance when removed. Beef, Brose.—Take the liquor from the boiling of a large jomt of beef. After the meat has been removed make it come to the boil, and stir into it some oatmeal, which has previously been browned in an oven. Send it to table quite hot, but not too thick. A little of the liquor made to boil up will remedy this. Pro- bable cost of oatmeal, 2^d. to 3d. per pound. Beef Cakes.—Make a mincemeat of one pound of under-dressed roast beef, a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, a few sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Add a large egg well beaten, and make up into square cakes of about half an inch thick. Fry quickly in good dripping, with bread-crumbs and a little more egg beaten up. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Time, from five to six minutes. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Beef Cannelon.—Beat a pound of mode- rately fat bacon or ham in a mortar; add it to two pounds and a half of under-cooked beef; mince together very finely along with the rind of a small lemon, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and nutmeg, pepper, and salt according to taste, binding all together with two eggs previously beaten. Form the mixture into a roll, wrap it in buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. When ready, remove the paper, dish it with a good gravy poured over it, and garnish with egg-balls and forcemeat-balls. Probable cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Cheese.—Take three parts of beef steak from any fleshy part of the animal, and one part equally composed of lean veal and un- cooked ham ; chop them together as finely as possible ; cut a piece of white bacon into small dice, and mix it with the minced meat; season with salt, pepper, allspice, chopped parsley, and chives or green onions, half a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, and half a wine-glassful of brandy. Line the bottom of an earthen pate-dish with thin slices of bacon; on this place the seasoned mincemeat; cover with more thin slices of bacon. Put the cover on the dish; lute it down with paste made of flour and vinegar, and send it to pass the night in a very slow baker's oven. Let the beef cheese cool and stift'en in the cellar for twenty-four hours before opening or cutting it up. This makes a useful, nutritious, and economical dish te help out a cold dinner, where there are many children or guests to serve in a hurry, and where bones are inconvenient, as in travelling, and on many occasions of an active and busy life. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Beef, Cold, Scalloped. — FiU some scallop-shapes with a mince of beef, highly- seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated ham or tongue. Add to it as much stock with a little walnut pickle as the meat will absorb when heated gently over the fire. The mince must not be thin and watery. Fill the shapes and cover them with mashed potato or bread- crumbs. Warm in the oven with butter sliced over the top, which should be prettily marked and of a nice brown colour. Time to warm, about ten minutes. Probable cost, without the meat, 6d. or 8d. Beef, Cold B,oast, Minced.—Mince about three-quarters of a pound of beef, and chop into it a seasoning of herbs and shalot. Brown a lump of butter with a little flour in a frying-pan, add some stock broth, and simmer with the seasoning for two or three minutes. Put the mince into a stewpan, pour the gravy over, and simmer again till tender. Serve with mashed potatoes or sippets of bread. Time, fifteen minutes. Beef, Collared.—Bone and skin about twelve pounds of thin flank beef, and rub it well with a mixture of common salt, salt- petre, and a little sugar. Let it stand for five days, then wash oflE the pickle; drain and dry the beef with a cloth. Prepare some strips of bacon, make notches in the meat, and lay them into the cuts; then take two large table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, one of sweet herbs, a dozen cloves well pounded, a drachm of cayenne, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and half a nutmeg grated. IMix well together and strew the mixture over the inside part of the meat, taking care that every part shall be equally covered. Eoll up and tie tightly; put it, well secured in a cloth, into a saucepan of boiling water, boil up, then simmer slowly for six hours. When ready take off the cloth and put the beef into a mould. Set a weight on the top and let it stand till cold. When sent to table garnish with parsley. Pi'o- bable cost, 7d. to 8d. per pound. Beef Collops.—Take two pounds of thinly- cut and tender rump steak, and di\'ide it into small pieces. If there be any doubt about its tenderness, beat it gently with the blade of a knife, but do not spoil the form of the meat. Lay the pieces in a frying-pan for two or three minutes. When brown put them into a stewpan and pour a pint of gravy into it. Take a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed into a little flour; add this to the gravy with a season- ing of salt and pepper, one shalot finely shred, the best part of a pickled walnut, and a small tea-spoonful of capers. Let the whole simmer for about ten minnlcs. The steak may he