CEO ( 164 ) ORE Hotuin the biU'loy to the saucepan, and let it Bimmor gently for an hour. 8tir it frequently. It may be either served in custai'd-glassos, or put in a buttered dish and baked in a moderate oven. If baked four eggs may bo used. Proba- ble cost, Is. 8d. SuCaciont for five or six persons. CJreme d'Orge, Soup of.—Cut three- quarters of !X pound of veal and half a pound of beef into small pieces. Put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of pearl barley and two quarts of cold water, bring it to a boil, skim thoroughly, and simmer as gently as possible for three hours. Then rub the whole through a sieve. Add pepper and salt, and any other seasoning that may be fancied. The soup should be of the consistency of thick cream. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cress Sauce (for Fish and Poultry).— Wash some cress carefully. Pick it from the stalks, and boil it for about ten minutes. Drain it, mince it very finely, and stir it into a little melted butter. Serve in a tureen. Sufficient, a handful of cress for half a pint of sauce. Cost, 6d. per pint. Cressy Soup.—^Wasb clean, prepare, and slice eight carrots, eight turnips, eight smaU onions stuck with one' or two cloves, half a drachm of celery-seed, bruised and tied in a muslin bag, and a slice of lean ham cut into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a large egg, move them constantly, and when they are nicely browned, add, a little at a time, tlu-ee quarts of good stock {see Stock). If it is necessary to use fresh meat, two pounds of the shin of beef boiled gently in four quarts of water for three hours will answer the purpose. Simmer until the vegetables are quite tender. Press them through a coarse sieve with the back of a spoon, return them to the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, and boil twenty minutes longer. The soup should be of the consistency of very thick cream. A little boiled rice may be put into the tureen, and the soup poured on it. Time, two hours, if the stock or gravy be already prepared. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the stock or gravy. Crisp Biscuits.—^A very stiff dough is requirecf for these biscuits. To one pound and a half of flour add the yolks of two smaU eggs, and as much milk as will bring it to the required consistency. Beat and knead the paste till it is quite smooth, and, when rolled out thin, make it into small biscuits with a tin cutter, and bake these in a slow oven about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, about 6d. Crisped Parsley.—Wash some young parsley; pick away the decayed or brown leaves, and shake it in a cloth till it is quite dry. Spread it on a sheet of paper, and put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire; turn it very often until it is quite crisp. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, a little to garnish a dish. Croquant Paste.—Mix two ounces of finely-sitted loaf sugar with a quarter of a pound of fine flour. Add the well-beaten yolks of eggs till it forms a stiff paste. Roll it out about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and, with an ordinary pastry cutter, cut it out into pretty little shitpes. Let these dry a short time, then brush them over with the wliite of 'III egg, sift a little sugar over them, place them on a tin, and bake them for a few nunutes in a moderate oven. Take them from the tin before they are cold, and place them on the tartlets, &c., for which they are intended. Sufficient, two or throe for a small dish of pastry. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. Croquettes.—These useful little dishes are made of minced meat, poultry, fish, Sec, highly seasoned, mixed with a little sauce, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, fried until crisp, and sei-ved with any sauce. They differ from rissoles only in this, that the latter are covered with good puff paste before frying, and croquettes are rolled in egg and bread-crumbs. They should be well drained from the fat before serving, then piled high on a hot napkin, acd the sauce sent to table in a tureen. Though they are often made of fresh meat, they are chiefly useful for cold. It will be evident that nearly everything depends upon the seasoning. Though there are numberless names for them, from the materials of which they are made, or the sauces with which they are served, the general idea in all is the same—a savoury mince, moistened with sauce, if necessary bound together with the yolk of egg, dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. Croquettes (au FinanciSre).—Mince very finely the livers of two fowls, a sweetbread, a shallot, six small mushrooms, and two truffles Season rather highly with pepper and salt. Put one ounce of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then mix with it very smoothly and slowly a table-spoonful of flour. When it is lightly browned, add the mince and an ounce of butter, and simmer for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Drain off the fat, add a glass of light wne to the mixture, and simmer it gently for a few minutes longer. When it is cold and stiff, mould it into small balls, and fry these in the usual way. Half a dozen oj'sters, finely minced, are sometimes added. Sprinkle a little salt over croquettes before serving them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, sweetbread, from Is. to 4s. Sufficient, allow one or two croquettes for each person. Croquettes of Fowl.—Take the remains of a cola fowl, and mince it ver\' finel)'; put it in a saucepan with a little gravy, a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and a table-spoonful of cream. Let it boil, stirring it well all the time, and, if necessary, thicken it with a little flour, or a few bread-crumbs. When cold and firm, roll it into balls about the size of a walnut, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs; do this once or twice, and fry them in plenty of hot dripping until they are lightlj^ browned; pile them on a napkin and garnish with crisped parsley {sre Crisped Parsley). Time to try, ten minutes . Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Allow two or three for each person.