{ 477 ) OKA OBA Orange Juice, Imitation.—Take one ounce of citric acid and ono di-uchm of car- bonate of potassia, and dissolve them in a quart of water. Digest the solution on the peel of half an orange until it is sufficiently flavoured. Add white sugar or Narbonne honey till the proper degree of sweetness is ai-rived at. Or, in place of the orange-peel, take five or six drops of oil of orange-peel with half a fluid ounce of tinctui-e of orange-peel. Orange Liqueur.—Stick half a dozen cloves into a fine Seville orange, put it into an earthen jar with one pint and a half of rectified spirits, or best gin, and leave it for a month. Boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar quickly with half a pint of water, pom- it into the syrup, and leave it for another month. Filter the liqueur through blotting- paper, pour it into bottles, cork securely, and store for use. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, 7d. Sufficient for nearly three pints of liqueur. Orange Liqueur (another way).—Take the thin rind of two Seville oranges, and put it into an earthen jar with a pinch of saffron and a pint and a half of best gin. Leave it in a warm place for a week, then add half a pound of sugar, boiled to a sjTup, with a quarter of a pint of water, and let it remain four weeks longer. Filter the liqueur through blotting- paper, and bottle for use. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the spii'it, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of liqueur. Orange Marmalade.—Orange marma- lade should be made at the end of March or the beginning of April, as the Seville oranges are then in perfection, and it should be remembered that large oranges with clear skins are the best for the purpose. The proportion of sweet and bitter oranges must be regulated by individual taste. As a general rule, however, nine St. Michael's oranges and two lemons may be put with every dozen of Seville oranges. Orange Marmalade (an easy method). —Take equal weights of oranges and loaf sugar. Put the oranges whole into a preserving-pan, cover them with cold water, and bring them to the point of boiling. Pour off the liquid, put fresh water with the fruit, and boil gently until the rinds of the oranges can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. Drain the oranges, and cut them—skin, pulp, and every- thing—into very tbin slices ; remove the pips, and throw the fruit into a preserving-pan with half a pint of the water in which the oranges were last boiled to every pound of fruit, and half the sugar which is to be used. Simmer gently for thirty minutes, then add the re- mainder of the sugar, and laoil twenty minutes longer, or until the marmalade jellies. Pour it into jars, and when cold cover and store for use. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 6s. or 6s. per hundred. Orange Marmalade (another way).— Weigh the oranges before boiling them, and allow two pounds of loaf sugar to every ])ound of fruit. Boil in plenty of water until thoy arc so soft that the skins can be easily pierced, then drain, and skin them. Carefully remove the pulp with the back of a tea-spoon, and throw the pips and skins into cold water. Cut the rinds into thin strips. Eub a preserving- pan quickly round with a cut lemon, and boil the sugar to a S5rrup with a quarter of a pint of the strained water in which the pips were, soaked to each pound. Throw in the fruit, let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently imtil the marmalade jellies. Put it into jars, cover closely, and store for use, Time, half an hour to simmer the marmalade. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 5s. or 6s. per himdred. Orange Marmalade (another way),.— See Marmalade, Orange. Orange Marmalade (Invalid Cookery). —Take the same proportion of bitter and sweet oranges that was recommended in the first "Orange Marmalade" article, and an equal weight of loaf sugar. Boil the rinds in two waters until they are quite soft, and preserve the liquid in which they were last boiled. Scrape the pulp out carefully, throw the inner skins of the oranges and the pips into a basin of cold water, and let them infuse for an hour or two. Pound the skins in a mortar; mix with them very gradually the pulp and juice, half the quantity of sugar which is to be used, and a quarter of a pint of liquid to each pound of pulp and juice. This liquid should consist of the strained water in which the pips were soaked and that in which the oranges were boiled. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then add the remainder of the sugar, and boil again until the marmalade jellies. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil. Probable cost of Seville oranges, 6s. or 6s. per hundred. Orange Marmalade (old-fashioned method).—Take the weight of the oranges in loaf sugar. Divide the skins into quarters, put them into a preserving-pan with plenty of cold water, and let them boU until they can be easily pierced with the head of a pin. Whilst they are boiling, divide the fruit into sections, scrape out carefully aU the pulp, and throw the skins and pips into a little cold water—a pint is sufficient for a dozen oranges. When the skins are tender, drain them well, and pre- serve the water in which they were boiled. If it is wished to have the marmalade very clear, thin, and highly coloured, the pith or inside of the skins should be scraped out. The marma- lade wiU then be more Hke preserve. It will be thicker and more economical if the pith be left in, but this is a matter of taste. Lay the skins in folds, and cut them into thin shreds about an inch long. Allow a pint of water for every dozen oranges, using the strained liquid from the pips and skins and that in which the oranges were boiled, instead of fresh water. Put the pulp and the shreds into this, let them infuse for six hours, then boil them gently until the skins are quite tender; add the proper proportion of pounded sugar, and boil again until the marmalade jellies. Put it into jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Time' two hours to boil the skins; six hours to infuse the pulp, &c., in the liquid. Probable cost of marmalade, 8d. per pound.