( 264 ) GOO GOO Strew over thom a tea-spoonful of i)owdorod sago, a Halt-spoouful of salt, and lialf a salt- spoonful of popper. Put the stullin/,' insido the f^ooso, tie the openings securely, and roiist. If preferred, the potatoes may bo mashed, instead of being cooked as above. Time, five or six minutes to steam the potatoes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient to stuff a goose. Goose Stuffing, Sage-and-onion.- Boil tour largo onions till tender; drain tliem from the water, and mince them finely with four fresh sage-loaves, or six dry ones, four table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful •of salt, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea-spoonful ■of pepper; a large apple, pared and cored, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, may be added, li approved. Time to boil the onions, from twenty minutes to half an hour. Sufficient for a good-sized goose. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity {see also additional particulars con- nected with this stuffing, under Goose, Roast). Goose Stuffing (to deprive of offensive odoui-),—The unpleasantness arising from eat- ing sage-and-onion stuffing used for roast goose may be in a great measure prevented by putting in the centre of the stuffing, before the bird is cooked, a lemon with the yellow rind taken off, and as much of the thick white skin left on as possible. Before the goose is sent to table, the flap should be opened and the lemon taken out, and at once thrown away. The lemon Avill have absorbed a great part of the im- pui'ities, w-hich otherwise would have remained in the stuffing. Care should be taken not to cut the lemon so that the juice could escape. Goose, To Boil.—Pick and singe a goose carefully. Let it soak in lukewarm milk and water for eight or ten hours. Stuff, and truss it securely; i^ut it into a saucejjan, with as much cold water as will cover it, bring it to a boil, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Send good onion sauce to table with it. Time, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half after it has boiled. Prcbable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, To Braise.—Truss the bird as if for boiling. A braising-pan proper is con- structed to hold live coal on the lid, but where this is not to be had, the goose must be put into an ordinary stewpan, with a closely-fitting lid. Fat bacon and savoury herbs should be laid both above and under it, and a little stock to moisten it. Thick folds of paper should then be ljut on it, and the lid wrapped about with a cloth to prevent any of the steam escaping. The bird should be cooked vert/ slowly. Time, five hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Goose, To Truss, for Roasting.— Pluck the goose. Carefully remove the quill- sockets, and singe off the hairs. Cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over. After drawing, wash and wipe the bird both inside and out, and cut off the feet and pinions at the first joint. Pull out the throat, and tie the end securely. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin. Draw the legs up closely, and put a skewer through them and through the ljudy, and another through the pinions and tlirougli the body. Cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin large enough for the rump to go througli. This will prevent the soasoning escaping. Gooseberries. — The gooseberry is >o universal a favourite, and is so well-known, tliat it is unnecessiiry to give any description of it. It is exceedingly wholesome and refreshing, and many dishes may be made from it. The principal varieties are the white and red, and the red is the more acid of the two. Smooth- skinned gooseberries are much infeiior in flavour to the rough hairy ones. Gooseberries, Dried, for Winter Dessert.—Cut the tops, but not the stalks, from two pounds of large ripe gooseberries, either red or green. Put them into a syrup made by boiling together a pound of sugar and a pint of water until rather thick. Simmer the goosebenies gently for ten or fifteen minutes, then pour them out with the syrup, and leave them until the next day. BoU them then again for ten minutes, drain the syrup from them, and spread them on a sieve before the fire to dry. They may be candied by dipping them into powdered sugar as they are taken out of the syrup. They should be stored between sheets of paper in tin boxes. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Gooseberries, Green, Compote of. —Top and tail a quart of gooseberries. Put them into boiling water for two minutes, and next into cold water, mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar, for two minutes, to restore the colour, then drain them. Make a syrup by boiling three-quarters of a poimd of loaf sugar in lumps, with one pint of water for ten minutes. Put in the gooseberries. Boil them gently for ten minutes, or until the fruit is tender but unbroken. Turn them out with the syrup, and serve cold. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 7d. Gooseberries. Green, To Bottle.— Gather some goosebeiTies on a dry moming of the day on which they are to be used. War- rington's are the best for this purpose. They should be fully formed, but quite hard. Take off the tops and stalks without bruising the skins, and reject any that are not quite sound and whole. Put them into dry, wide-necked, bottles, and place these up to the necks in a saucepan of cold water. It is well to twist a little hay or straw round each bottle, to prevent them touching each other and being broken. Bring the contents of the saucepan slowly to a boil, and then Hft it from the fire, and let the bottles remain in it until the gooseberries are sufficiently scalded. In order to ascertain when this is the'case, look at one of the bottles, and when the fruit has risen from the bottom it is done enough. Pour a little boiling water over the fruit, to prevent it getting mouldy. Cork and seal securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Place them on their sides in a cool, dry place, and before using pour off the greater part of the water, and add sugar according to