(36) the white ends outwards each way. Send melted butter to table with it. Time to cook, about twenty minutes. Fresh asparagus cooks more quickly than stale. Probable cost, 'is. 6d. a hundred. Sufficient, fifty for half a dozen persons. Asparagus, Fricasseed.—Wash a quarter of a hundred heads of asparagus, cut oft' the tender portion, and lay them into cold water until they are required. Drain them, and chop them with a young lettuce, half a head of endive, and a small onion. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, melt it, then mix with it smoothly a dessert-spoonful of floiir and half a pint of stock. Add the chopped vegetables, with pepper and salt, and let all stew gently until the sauce is thick and good. Serve hot. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost for this quantity, Is. Asparagus, French Method of Cooking.—Wash and boil the asparagus about twenty minutes; then drain them, and cut off the heads and about two inches of the tender part of the stalks; mince them small, and mix with them an onion also chopped small. Add the weU-beaten yolk of an egg, salt and pepper. Make it hot, put a slice of toast upon it, and pour a good sauce over all, or sippets of toasted bread may be placed under it. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per hundred, when fully in season. Allow half a hundred for six persons. Asparagus Heads as Peas.—Take off about two inches of the head-ends of the asparagus; cut them into pieces about the size of peas, and put them into a saucepan with some cold salt and water. Let them boil about ten minutes; then take them out, drain them, melt a piece of utter the size of an egg in a saucepan, and place them in it. Shake the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes; then sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of flour over it, and a small tea-cupful of boiling water, pepper and salt to taste, and pour over the asparagus the beaten yolks of two eggs, mixed with four table- spoonfids of new milk. Let all simmer gently for five or ten minutes; then serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Allow a hundred for a tureen full. Sufficient for five or six persons. Asparagus Omelet.—Boil in the usual ■way twenty-five heads of asparagus, and cut the green ends, when tender, into pieces the size of peas. Asparagus that has been pre- viously cooked may be used in this way, first heating it in a little boiling water. Mix with them four well-beaten eggs, and add a little pepper and salt. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in an omelet pan, pour in the mixture, stir still it thickens, fold it nicely over, and serve with sauce and vinegar. Time to iry, six minutes. Probable cost, ls.4d. Sufficient for three persons. Asparagus Pudding.—Take half a hundred young asparagus, and cut up the green part into pieces as small as peas. Beat a piece of butter the size of an egg to a cream; add to it a cupfiil of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of finely- chopped ham, four eggs well beaten, the asparagus, and a little pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and add sufficient milk to make it into a stiff batter. Put it into a well- oiled mould, wrap it in a floured cloth, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. When sufficiently cooked, turn it on a hot dish, and pour good melted butter round it. This is a very nice way of cooking asparagus. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 28. for a pint mould, Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green ends off a quarter of a hundred of asparagus, and boil them in salt and water, until they are tender. Drain well, make a little good melted butter, using stock instead of water, putting with it a lump of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Fry the asparagus points in a little boiling butter, press them through a sieve, then add them to the melted butter, and let all boil up together. If the colour is not very good, a few leaves of young spinach mixed in a mortar with pounded sugar will improve it. Time to boil the asparagus, ten minutes. To fry it, six or seven. Sufficient, a quarter of a hxmdred of asparagus for half a pint of melted butter. Probable cost, lOd. per half pint. Asparagus Soup. — Take a hundred heads of asparagus. Cut away the hard, tough part, and boil the rest till tender. Drain them, throw half into cold water until the soup is nearly ready, and press the other half through a hair sieve. Stir the pressed asparagus into three pints of stock, which has not been fla- voured with any other vegetable. Boil it, and add salt, pepper, and a small lump of sugar. Cut the remaining heads of asparagus into pieces the size of peas. Put them into the soup for a few minutes and serve. If necessary, colour with a little spinach green. Time, about an hoiir. Probable cost of asparagus, 2s. 6d. a hundred in full season. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Asparagus Soup (another way).—Take the tops from half a hundred heads of asparagus, and soak them in water for some time. Then put them into three pints of nicely-flavoured stock to which has been added a cupful of new milk, and let them boil for ten minutes. If necessary, colour with a little spinach green. Time to make, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Asparagus Soup, Allemand.—Lay three rashers of bacon at the bottom of a sauce- pan. Place on them four pounds of lean beef cut into pieces and rolled in flour. Cover the pan closely, and put it over a gentle fire to draw out the gravy, taking care it does not bum. Pour over it a breakfast-cupful of ale and three pints of water. Let it simmer gently for two hours. Strain the liquor, and take off the fat. Salt and pepper should be added according to taste. Or, boil gently for two hours half a pound of fresh meat cut small and rolled in flour, with a cupful of ale and two quarts of water. Let the water be cold at first, brought to a boil, then drawn on one side, and simmered slowly but constantly. A table-spoonful of ground rice may be added, if not quite