(21 ) APP APP Apule Tart, Plain.—Line the edge of a tart-dish with good short crust, fill it with jipples pared, cored, and quartered, and a little ienion-juicc and sugar »tre^^•n OTcr. A little water may ho added if the apples are not juicy. Cover it with paste and bake in a, good oven. Time to hake, nearly an hour. Sufficient for live or six persons. "Probable cost, Is. Apple Tart, Rich—Line a tart-dish with putt" paste. Eub the apples well before paring them, then put the skins and cores into a saucepan, -svith the rind and juice of a lemon, one clove, some fine sugar, and enough water to cover them. While they are simmering, fill the dish with apples sliced. Pour the strained liquid over the apples, cover with the pufiE paste, and bake. Serve with cream or good custard. Time to bake, nearly an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Tart, Young. — Vei^- young apples, baked without paring make a nice tart, if they are very slowly cooked. Place the apples in the"pie-dish, Une the edges with puff paste, add plenty of sugar and a little lemon-juice, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Trifle.—Take eight or nine fine apples. Stew them gently to a pulp, adding sugar according to taste, and flavouring with grated lemon-rind or cinnamon. When cold, place in a glass dish, and pour over them a good cold custard, made of the yolks of three eggs, one pint of milk, a little sugar, and a little sherry, simmered gently together and allowed to cool. Then take a pint of thick cream, warm it a little while over the fire with a little sugar, and another small glass of sherry. ^Vhen cold, whisk it into froth, and as the froth rises, place it on a sieve to drain, and after it has stood some time (for no whip is solid that has not stood some hours), place it on the apple and custard in a rough, rocky form, and orna- ment with pink sugar, &c. Time for the whipped cream to stand, twelve hours. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the sherrj'. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Apple-Water. — Rub well three large apples to make them perfectly clean. Slice them, pour a quart of boiling water on them : let it stand some time, then strain it, and boil it up with the juice of half a lemon and a little sugar. Time to boil, five or six minutes. Suf- ficient for a quart of the liquid. Probable cost, 4d. Apple-Water (another way).—Pare, core, and quarter five or six tart apples. Place them in a saucepan with a quart of water, the peel of half a lemon, four ounces of currants, and a little sugar. Let all simmer slowly together. Strain, cool, add a little white wine, and the apple-water is ready for use. This is a pleasant drink for hot weather. Time to simmer, one hour and a half. Sufficient for a pint and a half of the liquid. Probable cost, 6d. Apple-Water, Iced.—This is an agree- able beverage, which may be made as follows: Slice four large juicy apples, and pour over them a quart of boiling water. Cover closely the vessel which contains them, and when the liquid is cold, strain and sweeten it, and flavour with a little lemon-juice and the nnd of a lemon rubbed upon sugar. Ice it, if desired. It is ready for use as soon as it is cold. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a quart of liquid. Apple-Water, Iced (anotherway).—Boil six liu-ge juicy apples cored and quartered until they can be pulped through a sieve, when addi to the strained juice a quart of lemon-water,, and freeze in the usual way. The preserving- pan containing the apples should be placed fai- enough from the fire to prevent them from> being burnt or losing their nice colour. Timo to freeze the liquid, about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three pints. Apples (a la Cherbourg).—Choose firm but good boiling apples. Pare them, and cut them into bricks. Put a pound of sugar, the thickly-peeled rind of two lemons, and a little ginger, to every pound of apples, and cover them closely for some hours. Then place them in a preserving-pan, being careful not to break the apples, and put to them half a cupful of cider_ Let them boil until the apples look quite clear, then remove them one by one to a dish. When cold, place them in cross piles, and crown the whole with the lemon-peel. Pour the syrup round, and eat with Devonshire cream. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of apples cooked this way, lOd. per pound. APPLES fi LA MAEIE). Apples (a la Marie). — Pare some large,, firm apples, and scoop out the core without dividing them. FiU the cavity with cream or custard. Cover each apple with a little short crust, with a sort of knot or bow at the top,, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient, one for each person. Probable cost,. 2d. each. Apples (a la Portugaise).—Peel and core,, without dividing, half a dozen large baking* apples. Put into a stewpan a cupful of sugar- and a cupful of water, place it on the fire, and when the scum rises, put the apples in, and let them simmer very gently until they are tender throughout. Lay them in a glass dish, colour the syrup with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and pour it round them, and lay on the top of each apple a spoonful of bright-coloured jam. Time to boil the apples, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apples, Baked.—Pare some good apples, and scoop out the cores. Put a little sugar and two cloves into each hollow, place them in », dish, not allowing them to touch each other,, strew powdered sugar over them, and a Hitle;