cassell's cookeuy. Ixxxii of chef at the Kefonu Club, chef to Her Majesty the Queeu, and manager of the rreeniiisou's Tavern. It would be affectation in any one, consequently, to despise the oi)iniun of one who had had so much opi)ortunity for studying the tastes of the most wealthy members of what is probably the most luxurious country in the world. Still we must confess that in reading so goodly a list of dessert wines that, not- withstanding the great authority that penned it, we feel that it cannot be considered complete without the addition of what may be called our grand national wine—good genuine poi-t. In fact Francatelli wrote for, comparatively si)eaking, a small class who lead to a great extent aititicial lives. In treating generally the subject of the ser\'ice of wine, exactly the same general principles have to be considered as in treating the subject of food. The two chief points are : first, the habits of life of those served; secondly, the time of year, or, rather, we should say the climate. To lay down general recommendations with regard to dinner, we must first consider the mode of life of the eater. For instance, take two cases. The one of a City man, say a jobber on the Stock Exchange, who passes his day in a hot scene of intense excitement, the wear and teax' upon the nervous system being terrific. He retiu-ns home exhausted, but not hungry: the reaction of comparative rest in too many cases being spoilt by another reaction felt after taking occasional stimulants during the day, such stimulants being felt necessary at the time. Contrast such a one—and the case is tyjiical of a very large class whose brains are over-taxed, such as hard-worked banisters, lawyers, hospital jDhysicians, (tc.—contrast such a one Avith the stout jolly farmer, who rises at five, and after a heavy and substantial breakfast, passes his day on horseback, i-etm-ns home with a wolfish appetite, his sole care and anxiety being that Farmer Styles' wheat is about half an inch higher than his own. We can well understand his feelings expressed in the gi'aphic words—"None of your kickshaws !" Half a dozen oystei-s and a glass of chablis would be as unsuitable a commencement of dinner for the latter as thick pea soup and underdone roast beef cut thick, with a draught of strong home- brewed ale, would be for the former. Probably were we to take the whole of those who in this country are in the habit of drinking wine habitually, we should find that by far the gi-eater nimxber are in the habit of taking a little sheny with dinner in addition to beer, and a glass or two of port wine afterwards. A sip of sherry after soup, and a glass after both fish and sweets, seems almost necessary. Indeed, I think that where there is absolutely no wine, I would prefer to dine off the joint, or, at any rate, butchers' meat alone; but prefacing that a little good beer is far preferable to bad sherry, we will first take this most popular of English dinner-wines, and have a few words to say with regard to its selection and keeping. Sheny may be divided into two classes—dinner sherry and after-dinner sherry. I am here speakuig of comparatively cheap sherry, as of course good old Ettst India sheny worth 7s. or 8s. a bottle is exceedingly good with dmner as well as after, but then in the generality of houses we expect to get sherry that has cost from 24s. to 36s. a dozen. I know sheny can be bought as low as 15s. a dozen, even in single bottles, at least a compound called sheiTy—I have, indeed, tasted it. I should imagine that it is bought by that class of persons, who not knowing what really good sherry is, yet occasionally like to have some on theii' tables for show. Indeed, the gi^eater part of the really bad and unwholesome wine that is drunk is consumed by this class—vulgJir pei-sons who attempt to live in the same style as their better-educated, and wealthier