FLO FLA ( 216 ) apricots, or pears. Or the mould may be filled with fningipane, flavoured with almonds bhmched, chopped small, and stin-ed into the cream. Flame Cake (a German supper dish).— Choose a flat spongecake. Soak it with arrack or bnmdy, and set fii-e to it as it is being carried to table. SHces of spongecake piled closely together, ^vill do equally well. Flame Pudding—Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir into it equal quanti- ties of flour and finely-sifted sugar, about two ounces of each. Add the beaten yolks of five eggs, and the whites whisked to a stiff froth. Thicken the whole with the crumbs of a stale spongecake, and mix well. The addition of a little grated lemon-peel, or an ounce and a half of pounded almonds, is a great improve- ment. Steam in a buttered mould, and serve immediately, or the pudding will fall. A small glass of brandy or rum should be put in the middle, and some should be thrown over the sides of the pudding. Serve directly the brandy is lit. The pudding is sufficiently cooked when it is firm in the centre. Sufficient for five or six persons. Flead Crust.—Mix one pound of flour and seven oimces of flead, finely shred, into a paste— use cold water—and beat it with a roUmg-pin until quite smooth. EoU out the paste, and put on it two ounces of butter in small bits. Fold over, and roll out for use. Flead of mutton or lamb, if shred fine, and well cleared from skin, makes a lighter pudding than suet.. A little salt should be added to the flour before mixing. Fleisch Minuten.—Cut neat slices of veal from the fiUet. Let them be very thin, and about four inches in length. Lay them in a deep dish, with a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a small glass of white wine. When they have lain three hours, put them, well dredged with flour, into a stewpan of melted butter, and add a little more wine, the juice of a lemon, and as much stock as will cover them. Simmer, with the lid closely fitted down, for five minutes only. Serve at once. Flemish. Cream.—Put a pint of hot water on half an ounce of the best isinglass. When it has dissolved, mix it with a quarter of a pint of cream and a glass of brandy, and whisk it into a light froth. Colour with currant jelly. Put it into a mould. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclu- sive of brandy. Florentine of Oranges and Apples. —Take one pound of golden pippins; scoop and pare them ; throw them into cold water. Have ready over the fire one pint of water, into which put half a pound of lump sugar ; boil and skim; then put in the pippins and stew till clear; do not let them break. When cold, place them in a pie-dish with two table-spoonfuls of orange ^eville) marmalade, and a little lemon-peel. Cover with puff paste. Time, stew till tender. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. Floating Island. —Into three-quarters of a pint of cream put sugar to make it very ?'weet, and the juice and rind of a lemon grated. Beat it for ten minutes. Cut French rolls into thin slices, and lay them on a round dish on the top of the cream. On this put a layer of FLOATING ISLAND. apricot or currant jam, and some more slices of roll. Pile up on this, very high, a whip made of damson jam, and the whites of four eggs. It should be rough to imitate a rock. Garnish with fruit or sweetmeats. Time, one hour and a half to prepare. Probable cost, 3s. Floster.—This American cooling drink is composed of the following ingredients, mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water :—An ounce of sugar, three slices of a lemon, six peach leaves, a gill of sherry, and half a gill of noyeau. Put into the bowl a good-sized piece of ice. Flounders (au Gratin).—Cut up parsley, shallot, and small button-mushrooms, very finely. Fry them in butter, with a seasoning FLOUNDERS. of salt and pepper. Cover the bottom of a tin flat baking-dish, previously buttered, with the herbs, and lay on them a flounder, neatly trimmed, or fillets of any flat fish. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over, and bits of butter on the top of all. Moisten with white wine. Cook carefully. Crisp the top with a sala- mander. Serve very hot, and with a squeeze of lemon over the dish. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of flounders, 6d. to Is. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Flounders, Boiled.—Lay the fish in a kettle, with salt and water in the proportion of six ounces to each gallon, and a little vinegar. Let the water boil up again, and then remove it to the side to simmer till done. The fish must not boil fast, or they will break. Time to simmer, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost of flounders, from 6d. to Is.