CUE ( 176) CUB Curry, Kebobbed. — Kobobbed or OUbbubed curry very much rosombleB auy other, the dilt'erence being that half the meat consists of pork, either fi-esh or pickled, and that the pieces are run through with small skewers about four inches long, before being cooked, and by means of thorn are fastened to the jack and basted well during cooking. They are first dusted with curry powder. The sauce is made by frying until tender a snmll acid apple, a clove of garlic, and two small onions, then pressing them tlirough a sieve, and mixing with them a table-spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. The paste should bo mixed smoothly with a cupful of gi-avy, and simmeied gently with the meat until tender. A bay-leaf may be stewed with the gravy. The juice of a lemon should be added before serving. Simmer for half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry Liquid, Essence of.—Put three ounces of powder [see Curry Powder) into a quart of strong vinegar. Let it remain for a fortnight, then strain off the clear liquid, and put into bottles for use. Cork closely. Pro- bable cost, Is. A dessert-spoonful will flavour half a pint of saace or gravy. Curry, Madras.—Slice one large or two small onions, and fry them in three ounces of butter tiU they are lightly browned. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert- ' spoonful of curry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice smoothly with the butter, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, and a breakfast-cupful of good gravy. Cut about one pound of meat, either fowl, rabbit, veal, or beef, into conve- nient-sized pieces, about one inch and a half square. Put these in with the gravy, and simmer gently for forty minutes. Remember to stir it every few minutes. A little rasped cocoa-nut, or the strained juice of a lemon, or an acid apple, is an improvement to the curry, which should be served with a border of rice round the dish. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Suffi- cient for four persons. Curry, Malay.—Take two ounces of blanched almonds. Fry them in three ounces of butter till they are lightly browned, but do not let them bum. Drain, and pound them to a smooth paste with the rind of a small lemon, and a sliced onion. Cut a young chicken into convenient-sized pieces, and fry them in the butter. Drain them. Mix a table-spoonful of curry powder, and a heaped salt-spoonful of salt, very smoothly with the butter. Add gradu- ally a cupful of gravy, put in the chicken and paste, and simmer for half an hour, then add a cupful of cream. Let the curry nearly boil, and just before serving squeeze the juice of a small lemon into it. Time, altogether, onQ hour. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Curry of Vegetables.—A palatable dish may be made by cun-ying green vegetables such as cabbages, cauliflowers, green peas, beans, vegetable-marrow, spinach, or sorrel. They may be cooked separately, or one or two kincjfl together. Cut them into small shreds. Pry them in hot butter, wldch has been mixed with a liberal allowance of curry powder, and a little salt, and wlien lightly browned cover thorn with cream, now uiilk, or good gravy, A sliced onion may bo added, or not, according to taste. Let them sinmier till sufficiently cooked. Just before serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and send rice to table with thorn. The time which this dish will require will vary with the nature of the vegetables. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. for a moderate-sized dish. Curry Pimento.—Cut a fowl into joints. Mix a table-spoonful of curry powder with half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a pinch of salt, liub this well into the pieces of fowl, and stew them gently in a breakfast-cupful of good nicely-flavoured stock. Let them simmer gently for half an hour, and before serving squeeze in the juice of a small lemon. Serve on a hot dish with half a pound of rice boiled, and piled round. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, 3s. Curry Powder.—Curry powder consists of turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, cayenne, fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice, and cloves; but the three latter are often omitted. The seeds should be ground in a mill, and mixed with the powder, and when made it should be kept in a bottle closely stop- I ped. A spoonful of cocoa-nut kernel, dried and poimded, gives a delicious flavour to a cui-ry, as does also acid apple. A recipe for making curry powder has already been given {see Curry, Calcutta), and we give another in the following paragraph, but we think it will be found quite as satisfactory and economical to purchase curry powder of a first-class dealer as to make it at home. Curry Powder (Dr. Kitchener's recipe). Put six oimces of coriander seed, five ounces of turmeric, two ounces each of black pepper, and mustard seed, half an oimce of cumin seed, half an oimce of cinnamon, and one oimce of lesser cardamoms, into a cool oven for a night. Pound them thoroughly in a marble mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Keep the powder in a weU-corked bottle. Probable cost, 3s. Suffi- cient, one table-spoonful of curry powder to a pound of meat, and a cupful of gravy. Curry Sauce.—To make curry sauce quickly, mix a dessert-spoonful of curry paste or powder smoothly with half a pint of melted butter. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient for a small dish of curry. Probable cost, 4d. Curry, To Boil Rice for.-;-Patna rice is the correct rice to use for curries, but it is not of so good a quality as Carolina, and, besides, it cannot always be obtained. The thing to be attended to is to have each grain of rice distinct and unbroken,.and at the same time quite tender. This can be attained quite as easily with Caro- lina, as with Patna rice, but the fofmer -n-ill require boiling a few minutes longer than the latter. Wash the rice in several waters. Pick out every discoloured and imhusked grain, and boil it in plenty of cold water. This is the secret of having the rice whole. The water will keep