MAN MAL ( 404 ) boing left for swolliiif,'. Time, four hours to Probable c;ost, 1h. 6d. Sufliciont for two piuldingH. Malvern Pudding.—Put two doHHort- spoonfiils of Oswego corn-flour into a huHin, and mix with a little cold milk, say a])oiit two table-apoonfiilH. Boil together foiir ounceH of good loaf sugar and half a pint of now milk. Stir it into the basin while boiling hot, adding, when the heat has a little gcmo oif, three well- boaton eggs, with throe tablo-spoonf iils of good cream, which should bo thicik, and a little nut- meg. If cream bo not at hand, use more eggs. Pour some of this custard into a buttered dish, and have ready boiled some well-flavoured apples, sweetened with half their weight of good loaf sugar, and made pleasant to the taste with the grated rind and juice of a lemon. Put a layer of the marmalade on the Oswego custard, and fiU up alternately. Bake in a brisk oven. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes. The apple and custard will be very good served cold. Manchester Pudding. — Boil three table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs in half a pint of milk, which has been previously flavoured with vanilla or lemon-peel, for three or four minutes; add to it when off the boil the yolks of twc eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, eight lumps of sugar, and half a gill of brandy. Place a layer of any rich jam (green- gage, strawberry, or apricot) at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour in the mixture when cold, orna- ment the edge of the dish with a border of puff paste, and bake for an hour. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold; if hot, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little sugar, spread it over the top of the pudding, and retm-n it to the oven for five minutes to set. If to be eaten cold, merely sift some powdered sugar over it and serve. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mandarin Pudding.—Mix a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of well-chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of Jamaica preserved green ginger, with two eggs and two table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the ginger. Pour the mLxture into a buttered mould cr basin, and steam for four hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mandram Sauce.—Mince two shallots or a middle-sized onion as finely as possible. Chop or slice a cucumber, and let the vegetables stand in water for a few minutes; then drain them dry. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and add the cucumber, a small pinch of cayenne, and part of a capsicum, sliced, with a table-spoonful of vinegar, and two of white wine. If the cu- cumber be sliced, the onion should be chopped, and vice vemd. Time, five minutes to drain the cucumber. Mandrang.—Cut a large green cucumber into quarters, peel it and scoop out any seeds there may bo in it; cut it into fine shreds about half an inch long; put th(?se into a sauce- turcen, and add two table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste; add aIso the juice of a lemon, three or four drops of anchop- sauce, and as much sherry or hock as will moisten the whole. Serve with any kind of roast meat. Time, before using, twenty minutes. Pro])able cost, Taxclusivo of wine, 8d. or 9d. Mange, Apple {nee Apple Mange). Mangel Wurzel.—This is a kind of rod boot. According to some authoriti(;H, it is a mongrel between red and white boot. Its cul- tivation in Great Britain is gradually extend- ing. In Prance, (iermany, and Switzerland it has long been grown, partly a« food for cuttle, and partly to bo used iji distillation and in tha extraction of sugar. * Mangel Wurzel, Ale from.—In the Quarterly Joitriiai uf AyricitUure (vol. iii., p. 36;3) a method is described of making ale from this root. A portion of about ton pounds of the root to a gallon will make a good liquor, but with fifteen pounds' weight to the gallon an excellent ale will be produced; the addition of two pounds weight of treacle to a firkin will be a great improvement. One-third malt and two-thirds mangel wurzel will make capital ale. " One method is first to wash and clean the roots well, take the top off completely, scrape (rather, pare) off the outer rind, slice and boil them till soft and pulpy; squeeze the liquor from the pulp as much as possible, and then boil it again with about six ounces of hops to nine gallons, and work with yeast in the usiml way. Thus a cottager, by boiling his pot over his winter tire of a night, and using the root as we have described, might seldom be without a refreshing beverage even the greatest part of the year, for the roots may be kept in a cool place, in a proper state for use, during moat of the winter." Mangel Wurzel Beer.—A pleasant, healthy bitter beer can be made in a very economical method, by using mangel-wurzel instead of malt. The saccharine matter in the mangel-wurzel is fermented with some best hops, and the beverage thus obtained will be found acceptable in families where brewer's beer is considered too costly, or where it is some trouble to get. For the convenience of small families, we have given the proportions for a ten-gallon cask ; but the beer is better when made in larger quantities. Wash the roots clean, and slice them. Boil until they can be broken up easily. To sixty pounds so sliced, add fourteen gallons of water. AATien the liquor has been pressed out and the roots are drj-, boil together their juice and the water in which they were bcilod first, with the addition of a quarter of a pound of hops; let them boil about an hour and a haK, then cool the liquor as qiiickly as possible to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Strain it through a thick cloth laid over a sieve; put it into the vat with about six oimces of yeast, stir it well, cover, and let it stand twenty-four hours; if the yeast has then well risen skim it off, and baiTol the beer, keeping back the thick sediment. "V^Tiilo the fermenta- tion goes on in the cask it may be filled up with the beer left over, or wnth any other kind at hand; when the fermentation ceases, in about two or throe davs, the cask must bp liungod up, and in a few days the beer will bo ready for use. It may be drawn from the cask oi bottled.