( 504 ) till it is nii oly Hot, my for about throe-qnartorH oi un hour. Prolmblo cost, Is. 2d. Builiciont lor nve or six persons. Parmesan and Cauliflower.—lioil n moderato-sizod caulillowor iu tho usual way and di-ain it well. Put a largo tablo-spounful ot grated rarniosan into a stowpan, with a quarter of a pint of good white sauce, and lot them simmer together for four or five minutes, then put in tho di-ained cauliflower, and let it boil very gently for ten minutes. Put tho vegetable into a hot dish, grate another table- spoonful of Parmesan over it, brown it with a atilamander, or put in the Dutch oven for a uunute or two, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Probable cost, Is. Suflicicnt for thi-eo or four persons. Parmesan and Soup.—Grated Parmesan should be served with macaroni and all other soups made with Italian pastes. Parmesan Cheese, British.—Put a piece of rennet into some fi'osh milk, about 76 dog. in temperatui-e. Let it stand an hour or two, then put it over a gentle fire, and let it heat very gradually until the curd separates. Throw in half a cupful of cold water to assist the separation, lift out the curd, drain the liquid entirely from it, and press in the usual way. Rub it every day for twenty-one days vnth. a little salt, and be careful that it dries gradually. The milk should be heated until the curd separates. Parmesan Cheese, Cauliflowers with (see Cauliflowers). Parmesan Cheese, Cod and {see Cod and Parmesan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese, Lamb Chops Pried with {see Lamb,Chops Fried with Parm-esan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese, Nouilles with {see Nouilles with Parmesan or au Grratin). Parmesan Cheese, Potatoes Sliced with {see Potatoes Sliced with Parmesan Cheese). Parmesan Cheese Straws.—Beat three ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it three ounces of diied flour, three ounces of grated Parmesan, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne. EoU the paste out thin; cut it into strips three inches long, and the third of an inch broad, and bake them on a buttered tin in a quick oven. Serve them immediately, piled high on a napkin. Time, a few minutes to bake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. (See also Cheese Straws.) Parmesan Fondue.—Mix an ounce of flour to a smooth paste with, a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of boiling milk. Season the mixture with a little pepper and salt, and half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and add one ounce of fresh butter and three ounces of grated Parmesan; then put it aside to cool. Have ready a well-oiled mould, sufficiently large to allow for rising. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and stir them into the batter, and at the last moment add the whitf^s of the eggs, which have been whisked to a solid froth. Bako in a quick oven. When set, the fondue is done enough, and must be served immediately. Time, fron. half to tliree-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. {dee aluu Cheese Fondue.) Parmesan Pufi's.-Put four ounces oi iinely-gratod bread-crumbs, four ounces of grated ] armosan, two ounces of fresh butter and a iittlu salt and cayenne into a mortar, and pound them thoroughly. Bind the mixture together with a well-beaten egg, and make it up into baUs, tho size of a large walnut, ligg and bread-crumb these, and fry them untU they an lightly browned. The fat must not be quiK; boiling when tho pufls are put in, or they wiU be too highly coloured. Drain them, and serve very hot, piled on a napkin. Time, four or five minutes to fry the pufts. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Parr.—This is thb name applied to salmon until the close of their second year, when they lose their dark lateral bars by the super-addition of a silvery pigment (see Salmon). Parsley.—The foliage of parsley is of use for flavoui-ing soups, &c., besides which it is nutritious and stimulating, a quahty which it seems to derive from an essential oil present in every part of the plant. Among the varieties of parsley are:—Plain-leaved parsley, which used to be the only sort employed in cook- ing. It is not much cultivated now, how- ever, the curled varieties being much more elegant; besides—and this is a good reason for avoiding it—it bears a marked resem- blance to a poisonous British weed, the bitter hemlock, or fool's parsley. It is well to know that the leaves of fool's parsley are of a darker hue than the genuine article, and that when bruised the)'- emit a very unpleasant odour. When in flower, fool's parsley may also be dis- tiuguished by what is popularly termed its head. Curled-leaf parsley.—This, both for flavour and appearance as a garnish, is the best sort of parsley. It cannot, too, be mistaken for hemlock, being quite unlike that plant. Parsley is a great favourite vrith sheep, hares, and rabbits, and is said to give their flesh a fine flavour. Naples parsley, or celery-parsley, is used in place of celery. It is a variety between parsley and celery. Hamburg parsley is cultivated for its roots. These grow as large as small parsnips. When boiled they are very tender, and agreeable to the taste, besides being very wholesome. They are used in soup or broth, or eaten with meat. The cultivation of parsley is extremely simple; an- annual sowing is generally made. Parsley and Liver Sauce {sec Liver and Parsley Sauce). Parsley, Cairs Brains and {sec Calf's Brains and Parsley). Parsley, Crisp.—Crisp parsley is generally used for garnishing dishes. Pick and wash a handful of young parsley. Shake it in a cloth to dry it thoroughly, and spread it on a sheet of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the fire. Turn th"^ bunches frequently until tlioy are quite crisp. Parsley is much more easily crisped than fried. Time, six or seven minutes to crisp. Probable cost, Id.