BUL BUL ( 84 ) as possible in doing so, and put in its place an onion and two cloves. Sktiwer the kidney securely, put il into a saucepan over the fire with a Little dissolved dripping, and turn it about till it is brown all over. Pour upon it, to cover it, water that has boon thickened with tlour to the consistency of molted butter. Let the liquor boil, draw it back, and simmer very gently for four hours. Add pepper and salt to taste. Probable cost, Is. Bullock's Kidney, Stewed.—Fry the slices of a kidney in butter until they become u light brown. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt. !Muko a gravy with the butter, a little llour, and warm water; then put the slices into tho stewpan with the gravy, and stew over a slow fire until quite tender. A little mushroom ketchup may be added. Time, a little more than an hour. Cost of kidney, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Bullock's Liver for Gravy. —This liver may be and is used by many tried with bacon, but it is more generally used for gravy in made dishes. It is excellent for this purpose prepared in the follow^g manner: — After being well drained, lay it in a dish with salt well spread over every side ; let it stay twenty- four hours, then drain, and hang it in a dry place, to use when required. Bullock's Tongue (a la Fran9aise).— This is a very superior mode of cooking a tongue. Get together all the trimmings from poultry-heads, necks, &c., some ham, bacon bones, or veal pairings. Put the tongue into a large stewpan with these remnants, add a small quantity of water, some pepper and salt, a few cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a good-sized onion. When it has been simmering one hoiir, throw in a little more water, enough to just cover the tongue; simmer till done, then strain, and make a glaze of part of the gravy; lay it over the tongue, and send to table ornamented with fancUy-made cuttings from boiled carrots and turnips. The remainder of the gravy will be of great use to the cook for sauces. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Boiled.—A tongue for boiling is best fresh from the pickle; but a dry one should be soaked twelve hours. Wash bullock's TOKaUB FOB TABLlt. it well from the salt, and trim off any objec- tionable part. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of water, and when it has once boiled, simmer very gently till done. It is excellent, though the plan is not economical, if boiled, or rather simmered, from six to seven hours, and allowed to coul in the liquor; but, in the ordi- nary way, a large tongue takes from four to foui- and a lialf liours, and a small one from tlu-ee to three and a lialf. Take off the skin and in-cas tho tongue into a round slmpe with a weight on the top, or fasten at each end to a board to keep it straight, if preferred. When cold, put some glaze over it, and garnish with parsley. I'robablo cost, 6b. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured.—Mix well together equal quantities of salt and sugar—a large table-spoonful of each—and half a table- spoonful of saltpetre. liub the tongue with a , good handful of common salt, and let it lie all night, then di-ain, and wipe before adding the above mixture. Lay it out on a board, and rub the mixture all over, not omitting to put some into the hole under the tongue. It must be turned and rubbed with a little extra salt for the first two or three days; then, with a large spoon, moisten the tongue well every morning for a fortnight. A tongue thus pickled will not require any soaking. Probable cost, 6s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured (another way).—Procure a tongue, with as little root as possible, from the butcher; but if sent with much on, cut off before salting all that is not required to cook >vith the tongue, and put it into a slight pickle of salt and water to cleanse it from the slime. Next day drain and salt for a couple of days, when it will be fit for pea-soup. Prepare the tongue by sprinkling it well with salt, and letting it drain; then rub in the following mixture :—A large spoonful of com- mon salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, half as much saltpetre, two cloves of garlic chopped very fine, and a tea-spoonful of ground pepper. The tongue should be rubbed every day for ten days, and turned as often. It may be dried or smoked. Probable cost, 6s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Cured (another way).—To half an ounce of saltpetre, pounded, two ounces of common salt, and an ounce and a half of coarse sugar, add a little bay salt, and rub it into a tongue for eight or nine da3's, turning it every day. Remove it from the pickle, drain, and hang it in a warm but not hot place, to dry and harden. It may be cooked whole, or a small piece may be cut off as required, and when boiled, grated for gravy. Probable cost, 5s. to 6s. Bullock's Tongue, Fricasseed (Ger- man).—Boil a tongue as directed, put some butter into a stewpan, and when it is of a rich golden colour, add some finely-cut onion, cloves, a slice or two of lemon, a cupful of stock, in which a small spoonful of flour has been mixed, and a glass of sherry or Madeira. Place slices of tongue in tho pan with this sauce, to which may be added sardines or mushrooms (tho Germans like a mixture of tastes), and simmer in the usual way for ten minutes. Serve up the slices of tongue with the sauce poured over. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, from 6s. to Gs.