OME OME ( 46G ) Tegetablos. It in much in favour with the poor, and is often kept ho lon^? tliat its odoui' and llavour both becomo highly ofi'onsivo, henco its mimo—olla podrida signifying x^utrid mess {see also Olio). Omelet. — An omelet is a simple, whole- some, inexpensive dish, but yet one in the paration of which cooks frecjuently fail, owing to ignorance of three or four important details! The flavouring may bo varied indefinitely, but the process is always the same. In making an omelet coi-o should be taken, first, that the fry- ing-pan is quite dry and hot. The best way to ensure this is to put a small quantity of fat into the pan, lot it boil, then pour it away, wipe the pan out with a cloth, and put in fresh fat. Second, the fat in which the omelet is to be fried should be very gently heated. Unless this is done, the fat will bo browned, and the colour of the omelet will be spoilt. Third, the number of eggs should not be large. It is better to make two or three small omelets than one very large one. The best omelets are made wth no more than six eggs. Fourth, the omelet pan should not be washed, it should be scraped and wiped dry with a cloth. If washed it is probable that the next omelet fried in it will be a failure. Fifth, a very small quantity only of salt should be put in. Salt keeps the eggs from rising. As to the method of preparation, see Omelet, Plain, and Principles of Cookery, p. iii. Eecipes for the following omelets, in addition to those on this and the following page, will be found under their respective headings :— Almond Rum Bacon ok Ham Salmon Cheese Savouky {See Prin- Ham ciples p. iii). Jam Sweet {See Pkin- KlDNETS CIPLES p. iv). Oysters Sweet-herb Potato Omelet (a la Celestine). — ]\Iix two eggs very smoothly with two ounces of dried flour. Add a small pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and half a pint of good milk. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a hot frying-pan, pour in two table-spoonfuls of the batter, and let it spread all over the pan. When firm, put a tea-spoonful of good jam and a dessert-spoonful of rich custard in the middle of the omelet, fold it over, and roll it round and round. Arrange the omelets neatly on a hot dish, sift a httle powdered sugar over them, and serve immediately. These omelets are sometimes made with beaten egg and sugar only. Time, three or four minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Omelet (aux fines herbcs).—Break six eggs into a basin. Beat them lightly, and mix with them a small pinch of salt and pepper, a heaped tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of minced onions, cloves, or sha- lots. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter into a hot frying-pan, over a gentle fire. Pour in the mixture, and proceed as already described. Omelets may be extensively varied. A little mmced ham, or cooked vegetables, or fiah sauce or jam, may bo put in either with the eggs or placed m their centre wlien tliey are partially cooked, and the omelet should then be named after the peculiar flavouring. Time to fry, foui' or five minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicieut for two or tliroe persons. Omelet, Cooking an.—""Where is the man or woman cook," reiufukH M. Soyer, "but say they kjiow how to make an omelet, and tlrnt to perfection h But this is rarely the case. It is related of Sarah, the Duchess of Marlborough, that no one could cook a ' fraiae,' as it was then called, for the great duke but herself. The great point is, if in an iion pan, it should bo very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best jjlan is to put it on the fire with a Uttlo fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the fat bums; remove it, and wipe it clean with a dry cloth, and then you win make the omelet to perfection." Omelet, Indian.—Break six eggs into a basin. Beat them sHghtly, then flavour them with a table-spoonful of young mint-leaves, finely-minced, and half a table-spoonful of either chopped onions, cloves, or leeks. Add half a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of cream. Fry the omelet in the usual way, being careful to keep it well together, so that it may be as thick as possible. Time to frj', six minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet, Onion.—Cut a large Spanish onion into dice, and frj- these in a little hot butter unto, they are tender without being browned. Drain them from the fat, and mix with them half a dozen eggs shghtly beaten. Add a pinch of salt, two pinches of pepper, and a small portion of grated nutmeg, and frj- the omelet according to the directions already given. White sauce may be served with this dish. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three persons. Omelet-pan {see illustration accompanjdng the article, Bacon or Ham Omelet). Omelet, Plain.—The following recipe is by the often-quoted M. Soyer: "Break four eggs into a basin, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and beat them well up with a fork. Put into the frying-pan an ounce and a half of butter, lard, or oil; place it on the fire, and when hot pour in the eggs, and keep on mix- ing them quickly -with a spoon till they are delicately set; then let them sHp to the edge of the pan, laying hold by the handle, and raising it slantwise, which will give an elongated form to the omelet; turn in the edges, let it rest a moment to set, turn it over on a dish, and serve. It ought to be of a rich yellow cl)lour, done to a nicety, and as light and delicate as possible. Two table-spoonfuls of milk, and one oimce of the crumb of bread, cut into thin slices, may be added." Omelet, Potatoes.—iMash two oimcos of mealy potatoes, and mix with them four