MAli ( 403 ) with sacks, and then let the mash stand for two hours; then draw off the wort.' The mashing- tub is placed on a couple of stools, so as to be able to put the underbade under it to receive the wort as it comes out of the hole. When the underbade is put in its place, let out the wort by pulling up the stick that corks the hole. But observe, this stick (which goes six or eight inches through the hole) must be raised bv de"ga"ees, and the wort must be let out slowly in order to keep back the sediment; so that it is necessary to have something to keep the stick up at the point where it is to be raised and ti.xed at for the time. To do this, the simplest thing is a stick across the mashing-tub. As the ale-wort is drawn off into the small underback, lade it out of that into the tvm-tub; put the wort into the copper, and add a pound and a half of good hops, well rubbed and separated as they are put in. Now make the copper boil, and keep it, with the lid oft", at a good brisk boil for a full hour, or an hour and a half. When the boiling is done, put the liquor into the coolers; but strain out the hops in a small clothes-basket, or wicker basket. Now set the coolers in the most convenient place, in doors or out of doors. The next stage is the tun-tub, where the Kquor is set to work. A great point is the degree of heat that the liquor is to be at when it is set to work. The proper heat is seventy degrees, so that a thennometer makes the matter sui-e. In the country they deter- mine the degree of heat by merely putting a finger into the liquor. When cooled to the pro- per heat, put it into the tun-tub, and put in about half a pint of good yeast. But the yeast shovdd first be put into half a gallon of the liquor and mixed weU; stirring in with the yeast a handful of wheat or rye-flour. This mixture is then to be poured out clean into the tun-tub, and the mass of liquor agitated well, till the yeast be well mixed with the whole. ^V^len the liquor is thus properly put into the tun-tub, and set a-working, cover over the top by laying a sack or two across it. The tun-tub should stand in a place neither too warm nor too cold: any cool place in summer, and any warm place in winter, and if the weather be rery cold, some cloths or sacks should be put round the tun-tub while the beer is working. In about six or eight hours a frothy head w3l rise upon the liquor; and it will keep rising, more or less slowly, for forty-eight hours. The best way is to take off the froth, at the end of about twenty-four hours, with a conmion skimmer, and in twelve hours take it off again, and so on, till the liquor has done working, and sends up no more yeast. Then it is beer; and, when it is quite cold (for ale, or strong beer), put it into the cask by means of a funnel. It must be cold before this is done, or it will be foxed that is, have a rank and disagreeable taste. The cask should lean a little on one side when filling it, because the beer will work again, and send more yeast out of the bunghole. Some- thing will go off in this working, which may continue for two or three days, so that when the beer is putting into the cask, a gallon or tivo should be left, to keep filling up with as the working produces emptiness. At last, when the working is completely over, block the cask up to its level. Put in a handful of fresh hops; fill the cask quite fuU, and bung it tight, with a bit of coarse linen round the bung. Wlien the cask is empty great care must be taken to cork it tightly up, so that no air gets in; for, if so, the cask is moulded and spoiled for ever." Malt Liquor.—(To brew small beer). Thirty-six gallons of boiling water are to go into the mashing-tub {see the preccdiag recipe); the grains are to be well stirred up, as in the process of brewing ale; the mashing-tub is to be covered over, and the mash is to stand in that state for an hour; then draw it off into the tun-tub. By this time the copper win be empty again, by putting the ale-liquor to cool. Now, put the small-beer wort into the copper with the hops used before, and with half a pound of fresh hops added to them.; and this liquor boil briskly for an hour. Take the giuins and the sediment clean out of the masMng-tub, put the bii-ch-twigs in again, and put down the stick as before. Put the basket over, and take the liquor from the cop- per (put the fire out first), and pour it into the mashing-tub through the basket. Take the basket away, throw away the hops, and leave the small-beer liquor to cool in the mashing- tub. Here it is to remain to be set to working; only, more yeast wiU be wanted in proportion ; and there should be, for thirty-six gallons of small beer, three half-pints of good yeast. Proceed now as with the ale, only, in the case of small beer, it should be put into the cask not quite cold, but a little warm, or else it will not work in the barrel, which it ought to do. It will not work so strongly nor so long as ale, and may be put in the barrel much sooner—in general, the next day after it is brewed. All the utensils should be well cleaned and put away as soon as they are done with. With care they will last a long time. " I am now," says Cobbett, when describing the above pro- cess, "in a farmhouse where the same set of utensils has been used for forty years, and the owner teUs me that they may last for forty years longer." Malt, Quality of, To Ascertain.— Choose that which breaks soft, sifts full, smells sweet, has a thin skin, and tastes sweet and meUow. It should swim on water; should it sink, it contains unmalted barley. Pale malt, or that which is dried at a low temperature, produces the strongest wort, and is most whole- some. Brown malt, which is dried with more heat, gives a darker coloured wort, which is weaker, and takes a longer time fining, than if brewed with pale malt. Amber malt is between the two. Malvern Apple Pudding.—To a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs and an equal weight of good russet apples—peeled, cored, and chopped small—add four ounces of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, or the rind of half a lemon, minced as small as possible, and four well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon, and throw in from time to time, while beating the mixture, a pound and a half, or more, of clean dry currants, and a glass of brandy. Boil in a floured cloth, which should be tied quite tight, without ^ny space