GIN GIN ( 267 ) snaps when put into cold water. Dip the pm into cold water for a minute, then pour the mixture out in di-ops, on writing paper, or on an oiled slab. A little butter may be thrown in if the syrup boils too quickly; or a little lemon-juice, or any other acid, if it is in danger of ginining. Time, a quai-ter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Ginger, Essence of.—Take some whole ginger, and grind it to powder just bofore using it, as the flavour quickly evaporates. Put three ounces of powdered ginger and two ounces of freshly-cut lemon-rind into a quart of brandy, or spirits of wine. Let the mixture infuse a fortnight, shaking it every day. Then strain, and bottle for use. This prei^aration is warming and invigorating, and, if mixed with a little boiling water and sugar, is an excellent cure for flatulency. Probable cost, about 5d., ex- clusive of the spirit. Sufficient for one quart of essence. Gingerette.—Pick and bruise one pound of either white or black currants, fully ripe, and put them, with the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, into one pint of imsweetened gin. C!ork closely, and leave for three days, then strain. Add half an ounce of freshly-ground ginger, and one poimd of loaf sugar. Leave the gingerette a week longer, stir it every day, strain once more, and bottle for use. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for one quart. Ginger Pancakes.—Mix the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one egg, very smoothly, with four table-spoonfuls of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of freshly-grated ginger. When quite smooth, stir in a pint of new milk. Just before cooking, put in two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Fry the pancakes in the usual way [see Pancakes). Send lemon-juice and sifted sugar to table with them. The batter for pancakes is better made an hour or two before it is wanted. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four persons. Ginger, Preserved.—Preserved ginger is sent to us from the SVest Indies, and is made by boiling the ginger in svrup when green. It is a favourite dish for dessert, and should be bright and clear. If dark and stringy, it is not good. Agreeable imitations may be made either from rhubarb, lettuce stalks, or vegetable marrows {see the two following recipes). Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of.— Lsc either garden rhubarb or the stalks of lettuces, going to seed. Strip ofi: the stringy l)art, and cut the stalks into pieces about two inches long. Wash them well, drain, and put them into a saucepan with five pints of water, one pound of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of freshly-ground ginger. Boil slowly for twenty Tiiinutes, and set the preparation aside for two .lys, boil then half an hour, and repeat the process a third time. Drain the stalks. Make a thick syrup by boiling together one cupful of water, one pound of loaf sugar, and one ounce und a half of gingor for every pound of stalks. I'our the syrup boiling hot upon the stalks, and, when cold put the preserve into jars, and J cover closely. It will be ready for use in a fort- night. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. One pound of rhubarb will make about one ijouud of preserve. Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of (anothci- way).—Take medium-sized vegetable- maiTOws; remove the peel and seeds, and cut the marrow into small lumps about two inches long. Weigh them, and pour over them as much syrup as will cotver them; the sjTup being made by pouiing one pint of boiling water over half a pound of moist sugar. Cover the bowl which contains the vegetable-marrows, to keep out the dust, and put it on one side for two days. At the end of that time, drain the pieces of maiTOw, and lay them in a saucepan, with one pound of loaf sugar and a cupful of water to every pound of marrow. Put into a muslin bag two ounces of freshly-ground ginger and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and allow this- quantity, with the rind and juice of three lemons, to every four pounds of marrow. Simmer gently, and, when clear, add a glass of gin. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of marrow will make about one pound of preserve. Ginger Pudding.—Shied a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet very finely. Add a pinch of salt, half a pound of flour, four ounces of moist sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, and put them dry into a well- buttered mould, which they will fill. Boil for three hours. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ginger Pudding (another way).—Chop very small three ounces of preser\'ed ginger, and squeeze over it a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Put a breakfast-cupful of' milk on the fire, with a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Let it boil, then draw it to the side, and mix with it, very smoothly, six ounces of flour. Put it on the fire again, and beat it very smoothly, until it comes up with the spoon in a lump, leaving the sides of the saucepan quite clear. Take it off, mix with it the chopped ginger, the yolks of four eggs whisked thoroughly, and the sjTTip of the ginger. Just before cooking, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Put the pud- ding into a well-buttered mould, and steam it for one hour. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. This pudding is very good baked. Ginger Puffs.—Mix two eggs thoroughly, and beat them smoothly with four ounces of fine flour. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a small nutmeg, gi-ated, half a tea-spoonfxil of freshly-ground ginger, a dessert-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar-, three table-spoonfuls of sherry, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Half fin some well-buttered cups with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Tui-n out before serving, and serve with wine sauce Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. 4d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for tlu-ee or four puff's.