CBO ( 166 ) CRU Croquettes of Rice—Put a quarter of a pound of rico, ono pint of milk, three table- spoonfuls of finoly-sif tod sugar, a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and the thin rind of a lemon, into a saucepan. Any other flavoui-ing may be used, if preferred. Sinmier gently until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. It must be boiled until thick and dry, or it will be difficult to mould into croquettes. Beat it thoroughly for three or four minutes, then turn it out, and when it is cold and stiff, fonn it into small balls dip these in egg, sprinkle a few CROQUETTES OF RICE, bread-crumbs over them, and fry them in clari- fied fat till they are lightly and equally browned. Put them on a piece of clean blotting-paper, to drain the fat from them, and serve them piled high on the dish. If it can be done without breaking them, it is an improvement to introduce a little jam into the middle of each one; or jam may be served with them. Time, about one hour to boil the rice, ten minutes to fry the croquettes. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Probable cost, 4d., without the jam. Croquettes, Vol-au-vent de.—Make some extremely light puff paste ; roll it out very evenly, or it will not rise properly. Roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp it to the size and shape of the bottom of the dish in which you intend to send it to table; roll the paste again, and stamp another shape, four times as thick as the first; place it on the top of the other, fastening it at the edges with yolk of egg. Make a slight incision nearly through the pastry all round the top about an inch from the edge. Bake it in a brisk oven (this is important) until lightly browned, at once take out the paste inside the centre, remove the soft crumb from the middle, but be careful not to break the edges. Keep it in a warm place, and, when wanted, fiU it with croquettes {see Croquettes, au Financiere). Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, de- pends upon the size. A vol-au-vent should never be made large. Croustad.es.—These are patties made very much of the same shape as vol-au-vents, bread being used instead of puff paste. They are best made as follows : Cut thick slices from a roll, scoop a hollow in the centre, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain, and dry them in the oven for a few minutes. They should then be fiUed with very nicely- seasoned mince, moistened with a little stiff white sauce. The crust of the roll may be temoved or not before frying. Time to fiy ten minutes. Probable cost, rolls. Id. each. Sufficient, allow ono croustade for each person. Croustades, or Dresden Patties (another way).—Croustades are very nice cut from a French roll, as above, then dipped in a little milk, and di-ained, brushed over with egg, dipped in bread-crumbs, and fried. They may be filled either with sweets or a savoury mince. Care must be taken not to break them. Time to fry, a few minutes. Croiite-aux-Champignons.—Cut the crust from a stale loaf rather more than an inch in thickness, toast and butter it. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then put into it three dozen button mushrooms, first cutting off the ends of the stalks, and paring them neatly. Strew over them a little pepper and salt, and add the juice of half a lemon. Stew them gently for twenty-five minutes, shaking the pan frequently. Grate a quarter of a nutmeg over them, and add a tea-spoonful of flour mixed with a cupful of milk. Let them simmer five minutes longer, pour them over the toast, and serve hot. A little good stock may be used instead of the milk if j)referred. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, mushrooms, 6d. to 2s. per pint. Croutons.—Cut some slices of the cnimb of bread half an inch in thickness, into any shape, round, oval, or square, that may be preferred, and fry them in hot clarified fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat and they are ready to serve. They are used for garnish. Time to fry, five minutes. Croutons (a I'Artois). — Fry some croiitons {see the preceding recipe). Pour over them a puree of young peas {see Peas, Puree of), thinned with a little stock, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to fry the crodtons. Suffi- cient, a quart of puree for four or five persons. Probable cost of peas, when in full season, 6d. per peck. Crullers.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, five well-beaten eggs, one table-spoonful of ground cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a table-spoonful of saleratus. Beat all together thoroughly for some minutes, then add as much fiour as will 'make a soft dough. Cut it in strips about three inches long and one wide, twist these and drop them into a little boiling lard. When they are lightly browned, they are done enough. Drain them, and, serve with a little pounded sugar strewn over them. Time, ten minutes to fry the cruUers. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Crumbs, Fried Bread (vpith which to dredge Hams or Bacon).—Place a crust of bread in a cool oven, when it is crisp and brown, roll it into dust with a rolling-pin, pass it through a coarse sieve, and bottle the powder until wanted. Or, put the crumbs of bread into a frying-pan with & little clarified butter, stir them constantly till they are brightly browned, and drain them before the fire. Tune to fry,