GRO ( 284 ) QEO lemon round tho dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of grouse, varifiblo, from 2a. 6d. to Gs. 6d. per brace. Sufficient, a brace for four or live persons. Grouse Pie.—Lino the edges of a pie- dish with a good crust. Put a pound of rump- steak, which has been cut into convenient-sized pieces, at the bottom, and lay a couple of grouse on these. If the birds are large, they should bo cut into joints; if small, they may bo put in whole, or in halves. Season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and black pepper, and pour a qmu-tcr of a pint of nicely-flavoured broth over the grouse. Cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. If the pie is to be eaten hot, a littlo more boiling gravy, to which has been added a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and two of claret, may be poured in before serving. Time to bake, an hour, or rather less. Probable cost of grouse, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for .six or eight persons. Grouse Pie (Scotch fashion).—In Scot- land grouse and steak are often prepared and fried in cutlets {see Grouse Cutlets), and then made into a pic, as in the last recipe. A few stewed mushrooms and hard-boiled eggs are an improvement. When the grouse is partially •cooked in this way, care must be taken that the pie does not bake too long. Time, &c., accord- ing to the size. Grouse, Quenelles of {see Quenelles of ■Grouse). Grouse, Koast.—Pluck the birds deli- cately, being careful not to tear the skin. Draw them, ami wipe with a soft cloth, but do not wash tnem. Cut off the heads, and truss them like fowls. Put them down to a dear fire, and baste them almost unceasingly. About ten minutes before they are taken up, butter a slice of toast, half an inch thick, lay it in the pan under them, and serve the bird upon this. Send brown sauce and bread sauce ■to table with them, and browned bread-crumbs •on a dish {see Crumbs, Fried Bread). The gravy should be slightly flavoured, or it wiU over^ power that of the bird. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a brace for four or five persons. Grouse Salad.—Roast a grouse, and cut it into neat joints. Put these in a pie-dish, strew a little salt and pepper over them, and pour on them the juice of a lemon and two table-spoonfuls of Lucca-oil. Let them remain for three or four hours, turning and basting them frequently. Wash and dry thoroughly some fresh lettuce. This should be done some hours before the salad is wanted. The leaves should be well shaken, placed in an unpainted wire basket, and hung in a cool, airy place, so that they may be perfectly dried. A salad can never be a success if there ii any water hani;- j ing about it. Shred the lettuce finely, and place a deep bed of it at the bottom of the dish ; arrange the pieces of grouse neatly upon it, .and ornament the top with slices of hard-boiled egg, sprigs of parsley, and, if liked, a littlo savoury jelly. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, beat them for three or four i minutes, and add lialf a tea-spoonful of salt, and Imlf a tea-spoonful of ])cpp(;r. Add oil and vinegar (tarragon vinegar is tlie best) until the sauce is the desired tliickness, allow- ing six tca-8poonful« of oil to every one of vinegar. Begin with the oil, and pour it in two or three di-ops at a time for the first two tea-spoonfuls. Mix with a wooden spoon. If prop . rly nuide, the sauce will be thick and smooth, like cream. Just before the salad is served, jx/ur this sauce over the grouse, and amonght the lettuce. Put a border of curled celery round the dish, and beyond that slices of liard-boih-d egg, iind clear savoury jelly, cut into rough dice. Time, half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, exclusive of the grouse, about 2s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Grouse Salad (a la Soyer).—It is said, that on one occasion, when several gentlemen had betted largely on the abiUties of ceilain chefs de cuisine, M. Soyer was miiversally ac- knowledged to have won the palm in conse- quence of the superiority of a salad, made very much like the following :—Lay a thin border of butter, about haK an inch from the edge of the dish on which the salad is to be sei-ved. Put inside this, and on the bottom of the dish, a deep bed of finely-shred lettuce, prepared as in the last recipe. Arrange over this, verj^ neatly, the joints of a brace of grouse, rather under- dressed than other-wise. Make a dressing, by mixing together two table-spoonfuls of finely- minced shallots, two of chopped tarragon and chervil, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Add gradually, at first a few drops at a time, twelve table-spoonfuls of oil, and four of Chili vinegar, putting one of vinegar after everj' three of oil, and beat with a wooden spoon until the sauce is smooth and of the proper consistence. Keep it in a cool place, or on ice, if possible, imtil wanted. To garnish the dish, take half a dozen hard-boiled eggs; cut them in four, length-wise, and take a little piece off the end, to make them stand upright; stick them on the butter roxmd the salad, the yeUow part out- wards, with gherkins and beetroot cut into slices, and stamped into shapes between the pieces of egg. Pour the sauce over the dress- ing, and serve. Time, half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, exclusive of the grouse, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Grouse, Salmi of.—Pick and draw a brace of grouse. Eoast them for twenty minutes before a clear fire. Take them up. and, when cold, carve them into neat joints. Take off the skin and trimmings, chop them small, and put them into a saucepan with a bay-laaf, a small sprig of thyme, a sliced shallot, and one table-spoonful of salad-oil. Fry until lightly browned, then add half a pint of brown sauce, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Strain tho gravy, skim ofi: the fat, and add a dessert-spoonful of loinon-juicc, a httlo salt and cjiyennc, and a glass of sherry. Put in the grouse, and lot them remain until quite hot, but on no account let them boil. Put the grouse in tho centre of a hot dish, boil up the gravy, pour it round them, and garuisa