PRINCIPLES—BISQUE. xxxvii Milk is a vory obvious substitute for cream, especially if a yolk of an egg be added to it but cave must be taken in adding this yolk, or the soup will get curdled. We will suppose therefore, you are recommended to add a pint of boiling cream to some soup and you are going to substitute milk and a yolk of an egg instead. If possible, allow the soup to reduce itself by boiling, and you can then add more than a pint of milk. However, bod this milk, taking the usual care that it does not boil over, which milk seems particularly fond of doing, and pour this boiling milk through a strainer into the soup; next, have ready the hot sou]) tureen and tlie yolk of egg; just before serving up the soup, throw the yolk into the tureen, take a spoonful of the soup out of the saucepan and throw it in, and beat it up with the yolk, add a few more spoonfuls, one at a time, to the tureen, and mix in the yolk thoroughly; then pour in the remainder of the soup, which should not be absolutely boiling, though thoroughly hot. The effect of this milk and egg will be very similar to a pint of cream, but of course much more economical. When cream or milk is used for these white vegetable soups or purees, a bay-leaf and a msjncion of nutmeg may be added. Only be careful with the nutmeg: a very, very little will go a long way, and too much would utterly ruin the soup. Before leaving the subject of soups, there ia one I shoidd like to describe, because it is supposed to be a rare and recherche dish, but is in reality very simple, and can be made without much trouble—I refer to bisque made from crab. When the weather is not too hot, and crabs are cheap, take a nice heavy crab that is not watery, and pick out the meat from the claws into shreds with a couple of forks. Then take the soft inside of the back, and pick out all the meat from the rest of the crab, and pound it thoroughly in a mortar with a little boiled rice (about half as much boiled rice as there is crab) ; add some good stock and cayenne pepper, and rub the whole through a tamis; add some boiling cream, and the shredded meat from the claws at the last moment, just before serving, only take care not to let the bisque boil. Bisque of lobster, bisque of crayfish, is ninety-nine times out of a hundred made principally from crab, and if you can get some lobster butter to colour it no one can tell the difference. Lobster butter is simply the coral of lobster pounded with a little butter and cayenne pepper: it is a beautiful colour, and looks like vermilion paint. This will easily dissolve in soup and turn it a bright red. Lobster sauce and shrimp sauce both require lobster butter. Before leaving the subject of soups, I would refer to that somewhat modem invention—soups preserved in tins. To maintain that tinned soups are equal to those properly made from fresh meat would of course be ridicidous; but the invention is most useful, and, in cases of long voyages, &c., most valuable. A tin or two of soup in the house has always this advantage—it furnishes an extra dish at almost a moment's notice for an unexpected guest. I will now proceed to explain how these tinned soups may be utilised and improved, if their contents are found to be not quite what was expected. Unfortunately, preserved soups differ immensely from one another in quality. I have no doubt, however, in time some means will be taken—possibly by Government inspection—so that unifonnity of quality can be ensured. Veiy much, however, can be done by the cook to transform these soups from a flavourless concoction to a really nice soup, only recollect I do not mean that all soups preserved in tins require what cooks call " touching-up," but only that some do. Take, for instance, that most commonly-bought soup—mock turtle. If the tin is a good one, and the weathev