cassell's cookery. xcii ra lUg the wiiie, which can be bought for about 26s. a dozen, liiw a decid^jdly Madei Ihivour, and is the best specimen of Australian wliite wine of the class correspondiL to sherry and Madeira that we have met with. Shiraz is another wine resembling sherry, and costs about 24s. a dozen. Perhaps the most marked of the Australian wines, and the one that proves best liow likely these wines are eventually to become better ai)preciated, is dry Muscat of Alexandria. This wine has the most beautiful bouquet that can be imagined, and its flavour resembles the fii-st crush in the mouth of three or four fine ripe muscatei 5;rai)es—those large white oval ones covered with a light bloom, and attaciied to a <Jean thick stalk—yet, notwithstanding this exquisite bouquet and flavour, the wine is dry. Unfortunately, samples difier; the lighter the colour, liowever, the better the wine. This dry Muscat of Alexandria can be bought for about 30s. a dozen, or even cheaper, and, when the specimens are good, is well worth double the money. We would strongly advise connoisseurs and epicures to make a trial A very delicious cup, superior to Moselle cup, can be made from this wine, l)y mixing it with soda-water, sugar, a few slices of lemon, and a lump of ice. Thiji makes a cheap and very refreshing drink in summer. We next come to the Australian red wines, which, as a rule, will be found very superior to the wliite. The finest Australian red wine that I have ever tasted Ls called Carbenet. This fine wine has a most beautiful bouquet, resembling good Chateau Margaux claret. It resembles Burgundy in flavour, with perhaps a very slight port flavour added. Or it may be compared to a very dry Rousillon. This wine is very soft, and this, coupled with its rich-scented bouquet, entitles it to rank high among the Australian wines. Indeed, it is far superior to the general fun of Burgundies and clarets that can be bought at the same price, which is about 36 s. a dozen. Fairfield (ruby) is another red wine, somewhat resembling dry port. The bouquet of this wine is very inferior to Carbenet, and it has a rather dead taste, in which can be detected a slight flavour of raisins. Perhaps the next best wine to Carbenet is Mataro; this is also similar to a dry port or Burgundy; it has a good bouquet, and is well worth the price at which it is generally sold. Chaselas is a red wine, but is somewhat poor and acid. A better wine is Hermitage, which •somewhat resembles the Hermitage made on the banks of the Rhone, and is pro- bably named after it. A very pecuUar Australian wine is made called Conatto; this is a rich liqueur, vdth a slightly medicinal flavour in it; its taste reminds one of rum shrub and curagoa. Again, it is sometimes like Constantia, and is probably made from the same kind of grapes that are used for Constantia. Red Albury is a scented wine resembling somewhat English home-made raisin wine, only it is better. It is a capital "vvine for children, and would suit those who like a sweet port These ure the chief wines of Australia, which, in our opinion, are destined in a few years' time to become far better known than they are at present; and Englishmen on patriotic grounds should at any rate give Australian wines a trial, if their order does not extend beyond a single bottle. We have now run through the principal wines drunk in this country, and have taken exceptional notice of Australian wine, which is but little known, owing to the fact of its being the only wine worthy of the name that is produced in the British dominions. Hungarian wine, Italian wine, Swiss wine, are all worth a trial, especially the former. We ought not, however, to forget to mention our national beverage—Beer! First, I do not wish to touch upon the point of making home-brewed beer—la