( 212 ) PIS PIS pvor it. Baste froquontly, that it may be well moistened. It will keep good Hevonti days in. cold wouthoi'. Time, two or three days. Fishj Pickled (another way).—Make a pickle ot boiling water and salt, strong enough to boar an ogg. Plunge the iish to be picklod into it. Let the fish bo well cleaned and trimmed, but the scales must not be removed, and there must be only just enough of the pickle to cover it. Be careful not to boil too much. Drain by placing it on a slanting board; and when cold pack it close, and lill the vessel with equal parts of the liquor the salmon or other lish was boiled in, and the best vinegar. Fill up again next day, and close the vessel. Pish. Pie.—Fish pies are best made with cooked fish. Take turbot, salmonv brill, had- dock, trout, or any kind of fish; take off the skin and remove the bones. Cut the flesh in large scollops, cover the bottom of the dish with bechamel sauce, and on this place the fish in layers, seasoning each layer with pepper, ^It, nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, shallot, parsley, and hard-boiled eggs; throw in a little more sauce, and fill up with the fish and seasoning. Cover with puff paste. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Pish Pie (another way).—Take flounders, clean and dry them well in a cloth, boil, and separate the fish from the bones. Boil the bones in a saucepan with a pint of the water in which the fish was boiled, a bit of parsley, lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. When reduced to the quantity required for gravy, make a crust and line a pie-dish. Put some bits of butter in the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, strew chopped parsley, and spritdcle with flour, pepper, and salt. Proceed until the dish is full, pour in the gravy, and bake with a top crust. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Pish, Pink Sauce for.—Soak for forty- eight hours in one quart of the best vinegar and half a pint of port wine, a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and six cloves of garlic; add and mix one table-spoonful of walnut-ketchup, and a double quantity of anchovy liquor; strain, and put it into bottles for use. It should be stirred often during the forty-eight hours, and the bottles used should not hold more than half a pint each. Pish Pudding.—Pound the flesh of two raw haddocks, cleared from skin and bone, in a mortar, pass it through a sieve, mixing a very little good gravy with it. Pound also an onion, a little parsley, a few bread-crumbs, and a quarter of a pound of veal suet; moisten vnth a couple of eggs, and season with pepper and salt. Beat these ingredients well into the pounded fish. "When well mixed, boil the pudding in a mould, and send to table with a rich brown sauce. Eel pudding, with the addi- tion of oysters, is excellent. It may be boiled in paste, and served with a sauce in the dish, or in a mould with sauce in a tureen. Time, one hour to boil. Probable cost, Is. each. Pish Pudding, Plain.—Line a pudding- basin with ordinary pudding paste; cut a pound of cod, or any other fish liked, into pieces, season with salt, popper, a very little chopped parsley, and onion, moisten with stock, cover with a crust, and boil in the usual way ; add fish sauce to taste. Serve hot. Time, one hour to boil. Sufficient for two persons. Pish Ragout in Scallop Shells.— Dissolve a piece of butter in a stewpaii, and put into it any uncooked fish, well cleared from skin and bone, and cut into small dice, but not mashed; add salt and lemon-juice, and stew very gently till done ; then have ready a sauce composed of the following ingredients:—Some good gravy, a glassful of white wine, a little cayenne pepper, grated lemon-peel, ginger, and nutmeg. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter, and stir till quite thick; then put in the fish, and stir in the yolks of three eggs and a little sardine butter. Put this ragout into scallop-shells with a covering of bread-crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Pour a little oUed butter over and bake to a pale brown. Time, ten minutes to bake. Pish Rdchaufi'6.—Take any fish, cooked, free from skin and bones, flake it, and to every pound add half a pint of cream, of Harvey sauce, mushroom ketchup, essence of anchovy, and mustard, one email spoonful of each. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put the fish and the sauce into a stewpan, and when hot place it carefully on a dish ; cover with bread- crumbs, and baste with butter for a few minutes while it is before the fire. Brown with a sala- mander, or raise a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, two and a half inches high, and place the ragout in the centre. Pike, cod, tur- bot, soles, and haddock do well for this dish. , Pish, Rissoles of .—To any quantity or kind of cold cooked fish, weighed after the bones and skin have been removed, add a third part of grated bread-crumbs, a finely-minced boiled onion, some cold melted butter, and the yolks of two eggs; season -with pepper and salt. Make puff paste, roU it thin, and cut it into squares of two inches. Place about a tea-spoon- ful of the mince on each square, and fold over with paste. Wet the edges of the paste, before closing them, that they may adhere, and fry in boiling fat, first egging and covering the rissoles with bread-crumbs. Serve dry. Garnish with fried parsley. Time, fry till lightly browned, probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the fish. Pish Salad.—This consists of cold fish of any kind, mixed ■with well dried salad, pickled gherkins, or any other green pickle. Oysters or shrimps may be added to the other fish, which should be separated neatly into flakes, and the whole should be moistened with a salad cream. Garnish with slices of lemon and some parsley. Pish Sandwiches.—Cut bread and butter as for other sandwiches, place thin sccJilops of any fish on the slices, and instead of mustard, use Tartar sauce. Put a layer of finely-sliced lettuce on the top of the sauce, and cover with broad and butter. Serve cut into squares. Thin slices of hard-boiled eggs may be added, but fish make good sandwiches alone if well seasoned.