AUS (37) AUN bread for the bread-cnirabs. Soak two or three pieces in the milk, heat well with a fork, and add the other ingredients. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Sutficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Aunt Edward's Christmas Cake (Economical).—Blend thoroughly one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one heaped tea-spoon- ful of baking powder, two ounces of butter, and two ounces of lard, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, candied lemon-peel and spices to taste. Mix rather lightly with water. Bake in a good oven. Tmie to bake, an hour and a half. Sufficient for two moderate-sized cakes. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity. PUDDIIIG MOULDS. Aunt Elizabeth's Pudding.—Take a breakfast-cupful of stale bread, and pour over it a pint of milk. Let it soak for half an hour, then beat it well with a fork. Next add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a heaped table-spoonful of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Bake in a good oven, and when sufficiently cooked, spread a little apple- i'am over it, and pile over that some acid ice. letum it to the oven for a few minutes. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Aunt Mary's Pudding.—WeU butter a plain mould, and stick alternate layers of raisins and sliced almonds round it. Pour a breakfast-cupful of warm fresh milk over a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for a little while, then add a small piece of butter, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little thinly-grated lemon-rind, and two eggs. Beat aU well together, pour the mixture into the mould, cover it closely, and allow it to steam for three hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Aunt Susie's Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Stir gradually into it two table-spoonfuls of ground rice, and the same of fine flour, sugar to taste, the thin find of half a lemon chopped small, 'two ounces of candied orange or citron-peel, a breakfast- cupful of new milk, and two weU-beaten eggs. Flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds, pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, tie in a cloth, and boil it. Turn out, and serve with sweet sauce. A little brandy will be an improvement. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persona, Aurelian Cake.—^lix half a pound of ground rice and half a pound of loaf sugar well together. Add to them the well-whisked yolks of twelve and the whites of seven eggs, with a little brandy and a few drops of essence of almonds. Stir the whole well together for quite twenty minutes. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a medium-sized mould. Aurora Sauce.—Pound the spawn of a freshly-boiled lobster in a mortar, -ndth a piece of butter the size of an egg, until it is quite smooth, and season liberally with cayenne and salt. Put into a saucepan a breakfast-cupful of good white sauce, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Press the spawn through a fine sieve into the sauce; place it on the fire, and let it simmer gently, taking care to lift it off the fire before it boUs. Sufficient for a pair of soles. Probable cost, lOd. Time to simmer, two minutes. If the spawn is not at hand, the yolks of three eggs may be boiled quite hard, pressed through a colander, and substituted for it. KING DISH FOR AUSTRALIAN MEAT. Australian Meat.—The persistently high price of butcher's meat having greatly increased the demand for, and turned the attention of the public to the beef, mutton, and other meats imported from Australia and South America, we propose to give a few recipes for Presers^ed Meat Cookery. As the appearance of this meat is one of the chief objections to it, it should, when used cold, be served in the New Patent Ring Dish, the use of which is suffi- ciently explained in the above illustration, and in which the meat can be carved most con- veniently. Australian Beef (a la Mode).—Take two pounds of Australian beef, cut into pieces about the size of a walnut, and roll in flour. Melt the dripping which is with it in the tin, and mix with it very smoothly two table- spoonfuls of ground rice, and one pint and a half of nicely-flavoured stock. Add two baj-- leaves, seven black peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spooiiul of mushroom ketchup, and an onion with four cloves stuck in it. Let all boil up together; then simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid, return it to the saucepan, and colour it with a little browning; or if this is not at hand, put