( 235 ) PRY PRU white of egg, leaving a margin all round un- moistened, that it may rise the better. Make a deep incision, an inch from the edge, in a cir- cular fonn; sepiu-ate the edges well, wthout , cutting quite through, and put the paste to rise ' in a good brisk oven. When sulhcieutly risen, lift otf the middle portion that was miu-ked out, and scoop out the dough, ^vithout cutting quite through or injm-ing the edge. Fill the hollow with bread, and put the vol-au-vent again into the oven. Brush over Nvith egg, and cover with sifted sugar; when done, take out the broad, and put strawberries or raspberries, beaten up and mi.\ed with pounded sugar, on the inside of the vol-au-vent. Serve with whipped cream over the top. Time, to bake, three-quarters o£ an hour. Fruit Wafers, for Dessert.—Extract the juice from cherries, currants, or any kind of fruit, by putting them into a jar in the oven, or by standing the jar in boiling water. To every pound of juice add the same weight of sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the juice becomes thick; then butter some papers, and cover with the mixture, which keep in a slow oven until they loosen from the paper, and can be turned. Dry thoroughly, and cut into shapes. Keep in a box, each layer divided by paper ; they are best if kept near a fire. Frumenty.—To a quarter of a pint of wheat, that has been boUed tender in mUk, but not pulped, add a quart of new milk or cream, a piece of cinnamon, equal quantities of sugar and well-washed currants, three ounces of each, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Take the mixture off the fire, and stir in (if only milk be used) the beaten yolks of three eggs and a glass of brandy; send to table in a junket bowl, to be served in cups. Time to boil wheat, from three to four hours. Probable cost. Is. Frumenty (another way).—To one quart of ready-boiled wheat allow two quarts of new milk; keep the whole stirred over a slow fire, and, from time to time, throw in well-washed cur- rants or stoned raisins, allo%ving about a quarter of a pound of the fruit to the above quantity of mUk. When sufficiently boiled, remove from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, pre\-iously mixed with a little milk. Fla- vour with nutmeg, cinnamon, and sweeten to taste. Do not boil again, but stir for a few minutes over the fire. It is sometimes served in cups, with brandy as an additional flavour- ing. Time to boil wheat, three to four hours: to simmer with milk, twenty minutes. Fry, To.—To fry anything is to boil it in hot fat, and this operation is too frequently badly performed, owing to ignorance on the part of those who engage in it with regard to two or three points which require close attention. When well done it is a satisfactory mode of cooking small portions of meat and poultry, is especially suited for fish, and is generally well liked. When despatch is necessary, it is the most convenient method, as by its means heat can be made to act on food most expeditiously. The fat for frying, whether di-ipping, skimmings of saucepans, oil, lard or butter, should bo sweet, clean, fnish, free frou, :..alt. Tlu' latter qualification is desirable, because salt keeps whatever is fried in it from browning properly. Fresh sweet dripping and the clarified skim- mings of saucepans are to be preferred to any- other fat for frjong. Lard is not so good, because it leaves the appearance of fat on what- ever is cooked in it, and this does not look well. Butter heats very quickly, and so there is danger of burning when it is used; it also re- quires a slow fire, but is not so objectionable if it is clarified before being put into the pan. Oil, which is often spoken of as the best thing for this purpose, is certainly very good, but it re- quires great care and experience. It should be FBTING-PANS. heated gently over a slow fire, as it has a ten- dency to rise quickly and boil over, and it must have at least twenty-five minutes heating before it is ready for use. All fat after being used foi frying should be allowed to cool for a few minutes, and then should be strained through a gravy-strainer into a clean earthenware jar. The cooling is necessary to prevent, the hot fat melting the strainer. The same fat may, with care, be used several times. When it acquires a dark brown burnt colour it is no longer fit for use. Care should be taken that fat which has been once used for fish should be kept exclusively for that purpose, and not used for anji-hing else. The fii"e under the frying-pan must be clear, brisk, and fi-ee from smoke and flame. A mix- ture of cinders and coke make a fire most suited for this purpose. A handful of salt thrown upon it will help to make it clear. There ought pro- perly to be two frying-pans for use in each kitchen—and one of these should be kept ex- clusively for fish. A proper frying-kettle is deep, and is made with a wire drainer fitting in- to it, which can be lifted in and out by handles. When this is not at hand, an ordinary iron stewpan may be used instead. Dry frying— that is, frying with a small quantity of dripping or butter—is done in a shallow frying-pan. Whatever kind of pan is used, however, the cook should see that it is perfectly clean, and free from damp and dust. It should never be more than half-filled with fat, for fear it should rise too high in the pan, and boil over. One gre^t secret of success in frying is, to allow the fat to attain the proper degree of heat before placing whatever is to be cooked in it. For ordinary purposes, the temperature should reach 345"' Fahrenheit. Fat is quite hot when it ceases hissing, and is still. In order to be quite certain on this point, hold a small piece of bread in the pan for five or six seconds. If, when it is taken out, it is crisp and brown, put in immediately what you wish to cook; if the bread is burnt, the fat is too