MAO cm) MAO Macaroni, Croquettes of.—To a toa- cupt'ul of huilod pipit macaroni add about two ounces of miiat from a roast phuasaiit, partridge, hiiro, or any game, a slice of lean ham, a few mushrooms, or a truffle. Mince separately, and mix these ingredients together. Boil a breakfast- cupful of good white sauce until reduced to a quarter of a pint, then simmer in it for a few minutes a sjilt-spoonful of shallot, chopped line, a salt-spuonful of sugar, and one of pepper and nutmeg, mixed; lastly, stir in two or three yolks of eggs, and, when these have set, the juice of half a lemon. This sauce may now be thrown over the mince, mixed with it, and left to get cold, when egg-shaped balls may be made in a table-spoon, and completed by the hand. Fry with egg and bread-crumbs in boiling lard from eight to ten minutes. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish. Sufficient for a dish. Macaroni Dressed in the English. Fashion.—Ribbon or pipe macaroni may be used, and either boiled in nulk, broth, or water. To four ounces of macaroni so boiled, add thi-ee ounces of grated cheese and a little salt; half the quantity of cheese is often mixed ^vith the macaroni, and the remainder is put over the top, with grated bread-crumbs and a little clarified hutter. Brown in an oven, or Avith a salamander. Kitchener remarks on this mode of dressing, "that the butter and cheese generally get burned, and in this state maca- roni is iinwholesome." Macaroni (en Timbale).—Boil eight ounces of macaroni in the usual way, and drain them well. Have ready minced the white meat of a cold roast fowl, and a slice or two of lean ham; mix with two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, and moisten with nearly half a pint of thick cream, and the beaten yolks and whites of three eggs. Cover a well-buttered mould with some of the macaroni, and mix the remainder, cut into neat lengths, with the meat, with which mixture fill the mould, and steam for three-quai-ters of an hour. A pudding paste is sometimes substituted for the lining of mac^ironi, but in cither case steaming is better than boiling. Serve, turned out of the mould, and with a good gra^'y. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Macaroni Fish.—Cold cod is most often used for this dish. Separate three ounces of the fish into small flakes, or chop it very finely, if preferred. Mix it with six ounces of macaroni, boiled and drained as before indicated, and three ounces of grated cheese. Toss it together for a few minutes in a stewpan, with a good lump of butter, or turn it out at once on a hot dish with more grated cheese over the top, to be browned with a salamander. Scollops of salmon or sturgeon, cooked en timbale, are highly appreciated. Time, one hour to prep;ire ; twenty to twenty-five minutes to boil macaroni. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni in Scollop Shells. —Boil eight ounces of macaroni from twriity-fivo to thirty minutes in the usual way, but throw it into cold water, then drain, and cut into half- inch lengths. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, stir in a little tiour, and add a small cup of rich gravy, with a littbj grated nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper. Toss the; uutcaroni with two or three ounces of grated Parmesan into the sauce, shake and mix it well over the tire, llien till scollop shells, or any fancy sliapes, with the mixture, which cover with more grated cheese, run clarified butter or spread sardine butter over the top, and bake quickly, or brown before the fire. Macaroni Nudels.—Nudel paste, like Italian macaroni, to which it is nearly allied, is a "homo-made" preparation'of eggs and flour, useful in a variety of ways, and equally applicable to sweet and savoury dishes. It is made thus:—Take as many eggs as will be re- quired for the quantity of paste to be made, but use only the whites of eggs if preferred quits white. Work in as much flour to two well- beaten eggs as will make a stiff dough, knead until smooth, and roll out, first dividing the mass into six parts, and each part into a round ball, on a pasteboard kept well dredged with flour. A perfectly straight rolling-pin is one of the requisites to perfect nudel making. The de- sired thinness to which the paste is to be rolled may be best Ulustrated by the sajong, '' That to arrive at the perfection of nudel rolling is to bo able to read through the paste." Ha%-ing ac- complished this, dry each cake on a napkin—a few minutes will do this—commence with the first rolled cake by cutting it into equal halves and quarters. Lay one quarter on the other, make the cut edges meet equally, and with a sharp knife cut through in as thread-like a manner as possible, then dry—by scattering them they will separate; or the paste rolled, as before indicated, is cut with a tin-cutter into stars, rings, &c., which may be stamped out, and piled one cake on the other; they will separate on being thrown into boiling soup. Macaroni Nudels, To Boil.—To boil nudels, throw them into boiling water, slightly salted; from ten to fifteen minutes will be long enough. Strain, and lay them on a shallow, well-l)uttered dish, with bits of butter and grated Parmesan cheese in alternate layer?, finishing with the cheese. Brown lightly in the oven, or put the nudels before the fire, and brown with a salamander. Tape or broad nudels are best for this dish. Sufficient, half a ))ound of nudels to a quarter of a pound of cheese. Macaroni, Pate of.—Boil six or eiglit ounces of macaroni in good veal bi-oth. drain, and cut it into equal lengths of two inches. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with mac'ironi, and on this lay a quenelle of forcemeat or ham- balls, if preferred, placed equally with any kind of poultry or game, boned ami in fillets, sweetbreads, cockscombs, or ox-palates, pre- viously stewed with truffles or mushrooms, and mincoii. Put these with alternate layers of the macaroni and meat, and an equal quantity of cream and rich gravy to fill the dish. Bake with a crust over the "torn or without a crust; make hot and brown before the fire. Par- mcsiin cheese should accomimny this dish, or it