BBO BUG may not drop upon the cinders, and so cause a sinoko or flaiuo. If these should arise, the gridiron may bo lifted away for a moment tiU they have suhsidod. The fire must bo clear, bright, and tolerably strong, made of cinders mixed with a little coke or charcoal. A half burnt-out lire is the best. A little suit thrown over it will help to make the fire clear. Sprinkle a little popper over the moat before it is put upon the bars, but no salt. Turn it frequently with a pair of steak tongs. If these aro not at hand, and it is necessary to use a fork, put it into the fat part of the meat, never into the lean, or the juice will escape. If, before tui-ning the meat, a little gravy has settled upon it, di-op it care- fully on the dish upon wliich the moat is to be served. Chops and steaks of beef and mutton are generally preferred rather underdone; but lamb and pork chops must be well cooked. Spriakle a little salt upon the dish before placing the meat upon it, and mix -with it, if liked, a little ketchup; but, generally speaking, the juice which runs from the meat is the only gravy required. Birds which are cut in halves before broiling should be laid with the inside first to the fire. Cutlets which have been egged and breaded should be dipped in clarified butter before being laid upon the gridiron. Fish Bhould be wrapped in well-buttered paper before being broiled, or, if this is not done, it should be washed in vinegar, well dried, and di-edged Avith fiour. Broiling is by no means difficult if care and attention be given to it. It should always be done the last thing, as the meat should be taken quickly from the fire to the table, and the dishes and plates used should be made as hot as possible. "With these—a clean gridiron, a clear fire, good material, and close watchfulness, and the exer- cise of a little judgment in taking the meat up at the right moment—small dainty pieces of meat and fish may be cooked by broiling in a manner superior to that which can be obtained by any other process of cookery. Brose Beef {see Beef, Brose). Broth, Strengthening.—Put into a vessel four pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, freed entirely from fat, and chopped into small pieces, vnth. six pints of water. Boil, skim, draw the pan back, and simmer for an hour. Add three ounces of washed rice, with a turnip and some celery if liked. Simmer for two hours. Strain, free from fat, add salt, and serve. Brown Butter Sauce (for boiled skate and other fish).—Dissolve two ounces of butter I in a saucepan, and stir it till it is brown without burning. Add two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of good brown sauce, a table-spoonful of Harvey, a tea-spoonful of bruised capers, and half a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and serve it poured over the fish. Brown Sauce.—Melt two ounces of butter in a small saucepan, and add one ounce of flour, stirring until it is of a broAvn colour. Then add sufficient boiling stock to render it of a cream-like consistency, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Brown Soup.—Cut into small pieces the following vogctal)les :—One pound of turnips, the sanie of cun-ots, half a pound of celery, iinj six ounces of onions. Put these into a pan witc four ounces of ljuttor, and let them stew, with occasional stiiring, till brown. Boil one pint and a half of peas, in as much boiling stock oi' water as will make u]) the entire quantity to three quarts. Add liiilf a pound of toahted bread, season with bliick popperconis, Jamaica pepper, and salt. Boil gently for three or four hours, then rub the soup tlirough a coarse sieve, and return it to the pan. When it boils it is ready for the table. Brown Soup (another way).—Sb'ce and fry in butter half a dozen carrots, with the same quantity of turnips, four potatoes, four onions, and three heads of celeiy. Put them into a pan with five quarts of boiling water. Let them stew four or five hours, then rub through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, then boil and serve. Brussels Sprouts.—Pick, trim, and wash a number of sprouts. Put them into plenty of fast-boiling water. The sudden immersion of the vegetables will check the boiling for some little time, but they must be brought to a boil as quickly as possible, that they may not lose their green colour; add a table-spoon- ful of salt, keep the saucepan imcovered, and boil very fast for fifteen minutes. Lose no time in draining them when sufficiently done ; and serve plain, or with a little white sauce over the top. Cost, from '2d. to 3d. per pound, according to the season. Sufficient for a dish, one pound. Brussels Sprouts, Saute.—Wash, and drain one pound of sprouts; put them into boiling water for fifteen minutes, with half an ounce of salt to each gallon, and when done, di-y them on a clean cloth. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a pan, and shake the sprouts in it over the fire for a minute or two; season them with pepper, salt, and a little nut- meg, and serve very hot. Sprouts about the size of a walnut have the most delicate flavour. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 3d. to 4d. per poxmd. Bubble and Squeak.—Dissolve two or three ounces of butter or beef dripping in a frying-pan. Cut some thin slices of cold boiled or roast meat, and fry them slightly, a nice brown. Mix some cold greens of any kind with a few mashed potatoes, shred onion, if liked, salt, and pepper, and fry, stirring all the time. Serve hot, with the vegetables roimd the dish, and the moat in the middle. Frj- for about twenty minutes. Probable cost, from 4d. to 6d. without the meat. Buckwheat Cakes, American.— These cakes are seen on most American break- fast-tables. Mode of making:—To a-pmt of buckwheat-flour add a large tea-spoonful of baking-powder and a little salt. Mix to a thin batter, using lukewarm water in cold weather. The fr}'ing-pan requires to be only rubbed -with, gi-oasc, and the batter dropped in in quantities sufficient to cover an ordinary breakfast-plate at one time. When done on one side, turn, and send to table very hot