CRA ( 157 ) CBA stand until new-milk warm, add four quarts of cowslip pips or flowers, and to every six quarts of liquid put three large tablo-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, spread on toast. On the follow- ing day put the wine into a cask, which must be closely stopped. It will be fit to bottle or drink from the cask in seven weeks. Twenty- four or forty-eight hours to ferment; seven weeks to remain in the cask. Probable cost, cowslips to be gathered in the meadows. Crab Apples, Siberian (to preserve whole).—Eub the crabs with a piece of flannel till they are quite clean, but do not break the akin. Prick each one with a needle to prevent its bursting with the heat of the syrup. Simmer half a dozen cloves and some whole ginger in a breakfast-cupful of water till the flavour is ex- tracted. Strain the liquid, and boil it for ten minutes with one pound of loaf sugar. Skim it carefully, then put with it a pint of crabs. | Let them just boil up, then take oflE till cold, j and repeat this three times. If then they look quite clear they are done enough, if not, boil IJiem once more. Lift the crabs into a jar. Pour the syrup when cold over the fruit, and tie the jar down closely. Time, two or three hours. They are seldom offered for sale. Suffi- cient, one pound of fresh fruit for one pint of preserved fruit Crab Apples, Siberian, Jelly.—The little red Siberian crabs make delicious and beautiful jelly. They should be made in the same way as apple jeUy (see Apple Jelly). Crab, Boiled.—Put some water into a saucepan, and to every quart of water add a table-spoonful of salt. When it boils, put in the crab, previously taking the precaution to tie its claws. Boil briskly for twenty minutes, or longer if the crab is large. Wlien taken out, rub a little sweet-oO. on the shell. The flavour of crabs is considered better when they are put into boiling water, besides which, they are sooner killed when the boiling-point has been reached. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 38. 6d., depending upon the size. Sufficient, a mediimi-sized crab, for three persons. Crab Butter.-Pick the meat from the claws of a large crab. Bruise it well in a mortar, and mix it with a little fresh butter. Put the mixture into a saucepan with a table- spoonful of water, and let it simmer, gently stirring it aU the time. When it is on the point of boiling, take it from the fire and press it through a sieve into a basin, which must stand in cold water until the butter is cold. Time, a few minutes to simmer. Probable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d., depending upon the size. Sufficient, the flesh from two large claws, for half a pound of butter. Suitable for a breakfast relish. Crab Butter Sauce.—Take haH a pint of good melted butter, and stir into it while hot a piece of butter about the size of an egg, prepared as in the last recipe. Mix well together, and serve. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient for a rimall dish of fish. _ Crab, Curried.—Pound a clove of garlic in a mortar, with the white part of half a small cocoa-nut, a table-spoonful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. When these are beaten to a paste, mix them very smoothly over a gentle fire with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, taking especial care that the saucepan is delicately clean. Add the meat contained in a good-sized crab, and gradually a small cupful of cream. A pound of French beans, cut into thin strips and simmered with the crab, is an im- provement to this dish. Just before serving, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon. Serve as usual with rice round the dish. Lobster may be used instead of crab. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for five or six persons. Crab, Hot or Buttered.—Pick the meat from the shell of a fine crab, and mix it witha little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, a spoonful or two of salad-oil or good cream, and vinegar. Be careful to leave out the part near the head, which is not fit to be eaten. Fill the shell with the mixtui-e, strew finely-grated bread-crumbs over it, and heat it in the oven or before the fire. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send toasted bread to table with it. Time to prepare, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. each. Sufficient, a medium-sized crab, for three or four persons. Crab, Minced.—Pick out the meat from a medium-sized crab, as in the last recipe, being careful to leave out the unwholesome part near the head. Chop it, and a small-boned anchovj', together, and put them into a saucepan with a little salt and cayenne, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, two of sherrj^ a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Simmer gently for a few minutes. Then draw the saucepan back, and add very gradually the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Probable cost, from Is. to 3s., according to size. Sufficient for three or four persons. Crab, Mock.—Take a pound of Gloucester or Cheshire cheese, and pound it in a mortar with two spoonfuls of vinegar, three of salad- oil, one of mixed mustard, and salt and cayenne to taste. When it is well pounded, mix with it half a pound of potted skrimps. It may be served in a crab-shell, and garnished vsdth parsley. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Crab, Mock (another way).—The imita- tion crab may be prepared as above, and the shrimps omitted. The flavour is not at all unlike that of crab, and is a relishing addition to bread and butter. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Id. Sufficient for thxe« or four persons. Crab, Potted.—Pick the meat from the shell and claws of a freshly-boiled crab. Pound it in a mortar with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Press it into small jars, cover it with butter, and bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. When cold, pour freshly-clari- fied butter over, it, and set it aside to get cold.