LAM ( 364 ) LAN romovo the slime. Oi)on and empty it, cut off the head, tail, and gilla. Take out the cartilage and a string on each side of it down the back, and till it with a forcemeat made of four ounces of linoly- grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fat bacon, chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, a pinch of powdered mace, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, and the unbeaten yolk of an egg. Sow the body of the lamprey securely, to prevent tlie forcemeat escaping, and roll it round and round. Fasten it with silver skewers, and bind it with twine; put it into a stewpan, cover it with water, and let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take it out, drain and dry it, rub it all over with dripping, fasten it on the spit, roast it before a clear lire, and baste it plenti- fully. When it is nearly done enough take off the skin, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, strew bread-crumbs thickly upon it, and let it remain until nicely browned. Serve it on a hot <lish, and send the following sauce to table in a tureen:—Bone and pound two anchovies. Iklix them with two table-spoonfuls of chopped capers, and stir them into a quarter of a pint of good melted butter. Add a table-spoonful of the vinegar with which the capers were covered; let the sauce boil up once, and serve imme- diately. Time to roast, forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamprey, Stewed.—Rub a moderate- sized lamprey with salt, wash it in warm water to cleanse it from slime, cut off its head, tail, and gills, season with pepper, salt, and nut- meg, and cut it into pieces about three inches in length. Put these pieces into a stewpan with three or four small onions, a dozen button- mushrooms, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a small piece of thin lemon- rind, thi-ee-quarters of a pint of boiling stock or water, and a glass of sherry. A larger pro- portion of wine may be used, if liked. Simmer very gently until done enough. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil for a few minutes longer. Take out the fish, place it on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it, and strain the sauce upon it. Garnish with cut lemon. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, lampreys being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lancashire Hot Pot. — Take three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, four mutton kidneys, a score of oysters, four onions, and three pounds of potatoes. Divide the mutton into chops, cut off about two inches and a half from the end, and trim away all superfluous fat. PLace a layer at the bottoin of a brown earthenware stewpot, (called in Lancashire a "hot-pot dish,") and put oyer the mutton a layer of sliced kidneys, an onion cut into thin slices, four or five oysters, and half a pound of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of curry-powder over them; then repeat the previous performance until the dish is fidl. Place whole potatoes at the top, and pour ir; the oyster liquor and hall a pint of water. I'ut the dish into a moderate ovon, and bake until the iwtatoes at the tor, are brown and crisp, but are cooked througl, When ready to servo, pour half a pint .,i boiling gravy over the meat, and send it Vj table in the dish in wliich it was baked. Pin a napkin neatly round the dish for the sake id appearance. The oven must not be very hot, or the gravy will be dried up. If there is any danger of this, add a little more. Time, thru, hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, oh. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lancasliire Oatcake Oatcake, Lan- cashire). Lancashire Raised Pie.—Take about two pounds of whatever meat is preferred (pork is most generally used), cut the lean into thin slices, and season each piece slightly with a httle pepper and salt. Take away all the bones, and stew them, with a pint of water, half a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper, for two hours, then strain the gravy and put it aside for use. It should when cold be a stiff jelly. Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely. Mix half a tea-spoonful of salt with it, and melt it over the fire in half a pint of boiling water. It will take ten or fifteen minutes to melt. Put a pound and a half of flour into a bowl. Pout the boiling fat and water into the middle of it, and mix thoroughly, first with a spoon and afterwards with t' hands. Knead to a stiff paste, cut off a pi large enough to form the lid of the pie, put rest on the table and mould it -with the handai to the form of a cone. Flatten the sides with the palms of the hands, and, when quite smooth, press down the top of the cone with one hand, and veith the other make the sides equally round- Great expedition is necessarj'-, as the exceUen: of the pie depends to a considerable extent o its being placed in the oven while still warm^ Put in the lean meat, strew a Kttle minced f over each layer, and press it closely until t mould is full. Egg the edges, roll out th cover, and place it on the pie. Make a s hole in the centre, through which the gravj- afterwards be put in. Ornament the pic wi leaves of pastrj', or in any other way to plea the fancy, brush it over with yolk of _ egg, an bake in a good oven. "\\Tien the pie is do" enough pour a little of the jelly gra\'7 (melt through the hole in the top. Lancashire rais pies are much more easily made in moulds: an until the cook has acquired expertness in the manufacture, she will do well to confine he: to those of small size. Beef suet is better t either butter or lard for this pastrj% but cither of these are used an extra ounce be required for the same quantity of flour an water. Time to bake, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Landrail, or Corn Crake,-To Roast. —This delicious bird, which is in full season at the end of August and the beginning of Sep- tember, should be trussed like a snipe, with the head under the wing, and a skewer pa.ssod through the thigh and the body, to keep the legs straight. Fasten two or three slices of bacon over the breast, and roast before a clear fire Dish it on fried bread-crumbs, or, if