ITA ( 334 ) bottom of the pio-dish with the moat, strow tho Boasoning over, and lay thin alicos of ham m-oviously dressed, upon tho top. Distribute torcomoat-bftlls throughout, and fill up the dish with veal, ham, forcemeat-balls, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Pour in half a pint of nch white stock before baking, and a large cup of creiim when tho pie is ready for the table. Cover the dish with a puff paste, put an orna- ment in the centre, which can be removed to put in the cream, and bake in a quick oven. Two pounds of veal and five ounces of ham will make a good pie. Time, an hour and a half to bake. The above quantities are sufficient for five or six persons. Italian Polenta—This is an Italian and American dish, made from Indian corn-flour in America and Italy, but in England semolina is used for the purpose. Four ounces of this seed ■svill thicken a quart of milk; the semoHna is stirred into it when the milk is on the point of boiling, and simmered for about ten minutes after. Throw the polenta into a dish to get cold ; cut it into slices, powder it thickly with grated Parmesan, moisten it with oil or clarified butter, and bake. Serve quite hot, with more cheese on a separate dish. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of cheese, 5d. Italian Polpetti.—Grate two oimces of Parmesan cheese, and mince finely half a pound of any cooked meat without fat; put these ingre- dients, together with a sUce of ham or tongue, into a stewpan; add a quarter of a pint of Italian sauce and two small tea-spoonfuls of piquant sauce. Stir over the fire until well heated throughout, then take out the polpetti on a marble slab or large flat dish, spread the paste (for such it wiU be) evenly to about a quarter of an inch thick, and let it get cold, when it is to be cut into small cakes with a tin cutter. These are now to be fried, egged, and bread- crumbed in boiling lard. Use up the fragments of paste, press them together, and cut into cakes as before. Time, ten minutes to fry. Italian Pork Cheese.—Season rather highly with salt, pepper, and herbs (sage, thyme, parsley, and sweet basU), about a pound of lean pork cut into small bits. Chop finely a pound and a half of the inside fat of the pig, and mix and press the ingredients together. Fill a shallow baking-tin, make the top quite smooth, and bake slowly in a very quiet oven. Serve cold in sKces. Time, an hour or more. Probable cost, 2s. Italian Potage (brown soup).—Take any young vegetables in season—turnips, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, &c. Slice three or four onions, and fry them in butter with two turnips, two carrots cut in ribbon-Kke strips, a head of celery, and the white part of a leek in inch pieces. Stew gently in the butter, letting them colour slightly. Add good rich veal gravy, salt to taste, and serve, when the vege- tables are tender, on grilled crusts, previously moistened with a little of the gravy. Asparagus tops, green peas, and young lettuces improve this potage. Time, fry untU. the vegetables are tender. Italian Pudding. - Souk throe sliced I'lynch rolls in u pint of cream which lias \mm boiled and sweetened with loaf sugar, lioat up eight eggs, and add thorn to the soaked rolls when cool. Line a weU-buttered dinh with puft' paste, the bottom of which fill with sliced apples, leaving enough of the dish empty to hold the cream. Strew sugar and some shced candied peel on the top of the apples add a glass of red wine, and, lastly, the cream' Edge the dish with some of the puff paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Italian Pudding, BoHed.—Get two stale rolls, grate the crumb into a pint of milk, and boil it very carefully for ten minutes. Throw it into a basin to cool. Meanwhile, beat the yolks of three eggs, add them, with nearly half a pound of pounded sugar, a flavour- ing of vanilla, a few currants or Makga raising, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. This pudding should be steamed. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie it down, and set it in a saucepan with boihng water reaching to half the height of the basin. Keep it boiling an hour, and serve with wine, brandy, or rum sauce poured over it. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. ItaUan Pyramid.—Cut from good pufi paste, rolled out rather thick, as many circular pieces as will be required for the desired height of the pyramid. Tin cutters are best for the purpose, but ahnost any article of a circular form may be substituted for the tin cutter. The sizes, the largest of which is the base, decrease from it, gradually tapering to the top. Pile the pieces one on the other after they are baked, placing round the edges preserve, marmalade, or jelly of any kind, but they must be baked separately on buttered tins over which is laid a buttered paper. The paste should be made in the pro- portion of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, and nearly half a pint of water. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to bake. Italian Roll.—Mix together half a pound of fine flour and from four to five ounces of sifted sugar. Put into a clean saucepan half a pint of new milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; bring it to the boiling point, and stir in gradually the flour and sugar. Beat well four fresh eggs, add them with the grated rind of a lemon, stirring imtil the mixture is thick like dough. Lay a piece of well-greased paper on a baking-sheet, spread the mixture on this about a quarter of an inch thick. Bake till half done in the oven, spread jam on the paste, and bake again. Serve cold, whole or in slices of nearly an inch thick. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes 'to bake. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclusive of jam. Italian Husks.—Slice a stale Savoy biscuit and divide the shoes into two pieces, which bake in a slow oven imtil they are crisp and hard. Let them cool, and put them in a drj' place, and in a close tin canister, to preserve their crispnesa. They should be a nice brown