ox ( ) OX macaroni in the middle of a dish, arrange the sliced palates round it, and send the gravy in which they were stewed to table in a tureen. Time, four hours to boil the palates. SuflGlcient for four persons. Ox, Sectional Diagram of the (see illustration in connection with the article on Beef). Ox Tail, Breaded and Broiled.— This is an excellent way of serving the remains of stewed ox tails. If made with fresh meat, joint and cut up the tails, put them into boil- ing water, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour, then soak them in cold water for one hour. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a saucepan with as much broth or water as will cover them, and let them stew until tender; then lift them out carefully, and when they are cold season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over them a little finely- minced parsley and shallot. Dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, then in clarified butter, and again in egg and bread-crumbs, and broil on a gridiron until they are brightly browned all over; or, if more convenient, place them in a dripping-tin with a little clarified butter, and let them bake until they are brightly browned. They may be dished on mashed spinach, mashed potatoes, or stewed cabbage, or, if preferred, served without vegetables, with piquant sauce, tomato sauce, shallot gravy, or Tartar sauce, in a tureen. Time, about two hours to stew the tails; three or four minutes to broil them ; twenty minutes to bake them. Probable cost, from Is. to 28. each. Sixfficient, two tails for five or six persons. Ox Tail, Haricot of.—Take two fresh ox tails, joint them, and divide them into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour; then take them up, drain them, and trim them neatly. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand; put in the pieces of ox taU, and with them a large onion stuck with four cloves, a few sticks of celery, a large bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a piece of garlic the size of a small pea, a quarter of a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of salt, a dozen peppercorns, and two quarts of water or stock. Let them boU, then simmer gently until the meat will part easily from the bone. Carefully lift out the pieces of ox tail, and put them aside ; strain the gravy, and return it to the saucepan. When it boils thicken with a little flour and butter, and put into it half a pound of carrots and half a pound of turnips neatly shaped, and six or eight medium- sized onions. Boil gently until the vegetables are tender, skim the sauce carefully, and put in the pieces of ox tail. Add a little more salt and pepper if required, and a table-spoonful of browning; simmer ten minutes longer, and serve very hot. A pint of white haricot beans are a great improvement to this dish.. They should be put to soak the day before they are wanted, and boiled oeparately in plenty of water until tender ; then drained, and put as a border round the dish in which the stew is served. Time, two hours and a half or more to boil the tails. Probable cost of tails. Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Ox Tail Hotch-potch {see Hotch-potch, Ox Tail). Ox Tail, Simple Mode of Cooking.— Take a fresh ox tail, joint it, and cut it into pieces about two inches long, lloll the pieces in flour, place them side by side in a baking-dish, and sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, a finely-minced onion, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour a pint of stock or water upon them, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy upon them. Time to bake, three hours and a half. Probable cost of ox tail, Is. to 28. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Tail Soup, Clear.—Cut a fine fresh ox tail into pieces an inch long, and divide the thick part into four. Wash these pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then drain, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Put them into a stewpan with two carrots, an onion stuck Avith three cloves, a sprig of parsley, a small piece of thyme, two or three sticks of celery, half a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, six or eight peppercorns, and a quart of water or clear stock. Boil, remove the scum carefully as it rises, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Lift out the pieces of ox taU, strain the soup, and if it is not clear and bright clarify it according to the directions given in Clear Soup, Excellent. Turn three carrots and two turnips into any small shapes that may be preferred, or into thin shreds an inch long, being careful only that they are all of the same size. Other vegetables may be used as well as turnips and carrots — such as French beans, green peas, asparagus, celery, or onions. Put these into a saucepan, pour the clarified stock over them, and simmer gently until the vegetables are tender. Heat the pieces of ox tail, pour the soup upon them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, about three hours to simmer the ox tail. Pro- bable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Ox Tail Soup, Thick.—This soup is, of course, much better if made with stock instead of water. If no stock is at hand, two penny- worth of fresh bones simmered gently with three quarts of water for six hours, and carefully skimmed, will make nearly two quarts of very good stock; or, if preferred, it can be made from fresh meat. Take two fine ox tails, wash them, cut them into pieces about an inch long, and divide the thick pieces into four. Put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fry them until they are brightly browned. Slice some vegetables—two carrots, one turnip, two onions, and half a dozen sticks of celery, and fry them in the same butter, and with them two ounces of lean ham cut into dice. Pour over them a quart of water, and stir it over a quick fire for a quarter of an hour; then add two quarts of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, a dessert-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, three cloves, and a lump of sugar. Simmer gently