( 465 ) OLI OLL Probable cost, 48. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Olive Sauce, for Ducks, Fowls, Beef- steaks, &C.—Take i'oiu- ounces of linO olives. Eemove the stones by cutting the fruit round and round in ribbons, in the same way that apples ai-e pared. By this means they %viU be the same shape when done that they were at first. Throw them into boiling water for three or four minutes, then drain them, and put them into cold water to soak until the salt taste is extracted. Drain them, and simmer them gently in thi-ee-quai-ters of a pint of good brown gravy- Serve very hot. A cut lemon should be sent to table with this sauce, so that a little of the juice may be squeezed in if the addition is approved. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Oliver's Biscuits.—Put two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of mUk, and stii- over a gentle fire until the butter is melted. Add a pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of yeast, then mix in very smoothly three-quarters of a pound of fine flour. Knead the mixture weU, wrap it in a warmed cloth, put it into a bowl, and place it on a warm hearth for a quarter of an hour. Roll it out eight or nine times, leaving it at last a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp it into biscuits, with an ordinary cutter, prick these weU with a fork, and bake them upon tins, in a moderate oven, imtU the biscuits are lightly browned, say for about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Olives.—Olives are the fruit of the olive- tree, and are imported to this coimtry from France, Spain, and Italy. The Italian olives are the most highly-esteemed. They are used for dessert, or handed round between the courses as a whet to the appetite, and also to clear the OLIVES. palate. Choose them green and firm, and rf they are too salt lot them soak for a little while in cold water. Olives should never be allowed to remain uncovered in the bottle, or their appearance will bo spoilt- Olives (a la Reine).—Boil two pounds of mealy potatoes, and mix them very smoothly with six ounces of fine flour and two ounces of fresh butter. RoU the paste out, and stamp it into rounds a quarter of an inch thick and four inches in diameter. Put a small piece of cold roasted beef or veal in the middle of each round, moisten the edges with a little cold water, and di-aw the paste up into a ball. Frj-- the olives in hot fat until they are lightly browned all over, drain the fat from them, and serve on a hot dish. Send good brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time, about five minutes to fry the olives. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Olives, Beef. — Cut a couple of pounds of mmp-steak into very thin slices, about four inches long and two inches broad. Have ready a nice forcemeat made of bread-crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, egg, and plenty of pepper and salt. Put a little forcemeat on each piece of steak, roll it up tightly, fasten it with a small skewer or piece of string, dip the rolls into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are slightly browned. Drain the fat away, and stew them for about half an houi' in a pint or rather less of stock. If the stock is very poor, a quarter of a pound of gravy beef will be required. Just before ser\ing, thicken the gravy with a little flour, and add some ketchup, or three dessert-spoonfuls of sherry or port. Time, five minutes to fry. Sufficieat for six persons. Cost, Ss. Olives, Beef (another way).—See Beef Olives. Olives, Duck with {see Duck with Olives). Olives, Preserving of.—Olives intended for preservation are gathered before they are ripe. The object of pickling them is to remove their bitterness and preserve them gi-een by impregnating them with brine. To effect this various plans are adopted. The fruit being gathered is placed in a lye composed of one jjart of quicklime to six of ashes of young wood sifted. It is left for half a day, and is then put into fresh water, which is renewed every twenty-four hours. From this the fruit is transferred to a brine of common salt dissolved in water, to which some aromatic herbs have been added. Olives will in this manner keep good for twelve months. Olives, Veal.—Proceed as for beef olives, substituting veal for beef. Place a thin slice of fat bacon or ham, of the same size and shape as the veal made with oKves, roll them up securely, brush them over with egg, dip them in bread- crumbs, roast them on a lark-spit, and serve on a hot dish with brown gravy and mush- rooms poured over them. Instead of being roasted, they may be stewed in a pint of veal stock, thickened with butter and flour, and garnished with beet-root or cucumber. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast; one hour to stew. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Olla Podrida.—This is a Spanish national dish, consisting of several kinds of meat cut into small pieces and stewed with a variety of