GOD GIB ( 259 ) ; ^When quite frozen, put it in ice-moulds that shut on both sides; put them in the pail with salt all round the ice. At dinner-tune dip the moulds in cold water, and push the ice olf the moulds, and cover the gateau with the cream f that you have put by in the basin. I Girdle Cake.—Rub three ounces of fresh i "butter into one pound of flour; add a pinch • of salt, and as much butter-milk or cream as will make a stiff paste. RoU the paste out thin, and make into small round cakes. Bake on a girdle over the fire, and turn the cake over, so that both sides may be done. In Ireland, a little carbonate of soda is used, instead of butter. Time, five to six minutes to bake. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about one dozen cakes. Glaze.—Glaze is made from clear stock, boiled down until it forms a sort of meat j •■varnish, or strong jelly; it is used to improve the appearance of many dishes. It is also made in large quantities for use in soups and I -sauces, and for this purpose is A'ery convenient. 1 It is especially suited for travellers, as it is nourishing, compact, and economical. The knuckle of veal, the legs and shins of beef, and the shanks of mutton are particularly gelatinous, and therefore the best for making glaze. Glaze may be kept for some time in small jars, such as are used for jelly, if kept dry. When a little is wanted in domestic cookery, a pint of clear beef stock may be boiled quickly down, to produce about a table- spoonful, or as much as will ornament a joint. Or the gravy found imder the fat left from a roasted joint may be mixed with melted gelatine to make glaze. Glaze should be kept in an earthen jar, and when it is wanted for use this jar should be placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and its contents melted in this way, care being taken that the saucepan is not so full that the water will go into the glaze. Glaze must never be put upon a joint unless the latter is quite diy, and two or three layers should be put on it, with a paste-brush, allowing one layer to dry before another is put on. Glaze may be purchased of the grocer, in any quantity. It is usually sold in skins, and costs about lOd. ,per pound. Glaze for Cold Hams, Tongues, &c. —Take some clear, strong stock, made from the bones of a shin of beef or a knuckle of veal, without either salt, pepper, or herbs, and quite free from fat or sediment. Put it into a copper stewpan, with a little whole pepper, and let it boil quickly imtil it is as thick as sjTup. It must be closely watched, and, as soon as it begins to thicken, stirred without ceasing. Keep trying a little on a plate, and when it sets like jam it is done enough; it must be boiled until it will do this. If a light-coloured glaze is wanted, more veal than beef should be used. Time, boil as quickly as possible till the stock begins to thicken, then put it into another smaller saucepan, and simmer gently until it jellies. On the average, one pound of meat will produce an ounce of glaze. Glaze for Pastry.—A rich yellow glaze is given to meat-pies by brushing them over with the beaten yolk of an egg. A lighter glaze la given by using the white as well as the yolk, and a lighter still by the addition of a little milk, or, for sweet dishes, by brushing the pastry with sugar and water. Gloucester Jelly (Invalid Cookery).— Put an ounce each of ground rice, sago, eringo- root, hartshom-shavings, and pearl barley into a saucepan with two quarts of water, and boil gently until the liquid is reduced to one quart. Strain, and put aside till wanted. It may be sweetened and flavoui-ed, and eaten like jelly, or a few spoonfuls of it may be dissolved in milk, tea, or broth. It is nom-ishing, and easily digested. Gelatine or isinglass may be used instead of hartshom-shavings, if preferred. Time, about two hours to boil. Probable cost, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for one quart of jelly. Gloucester Puddings. — Take three eggs, and their w^eight in butter and flour; mix thoroughly, and add twelve bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar. Beat well together to a light batter. Half fill some cups with the mixture, bake, turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Time, to bake half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Glove Cakes.—Beat the yolks of five eggs; mix them with sufficient flour to make a smooth, firm paste; add three table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted sugar, three table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and some cardamoms. Roll out the pastry, cut it into fanciful shapes, and fry in hot butter, to which has been added a spoonful or two of water. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. for this quantity. Gobble Sauce for Pish. — Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and mix it very smoothly with an ounce of flour. Add six table-spoonfuls of cream or new milk, a pinch of cayenne, two or three grates of nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of the essence of anchovies, and a tea-spoonful of lime or lemon-juice. Stir in two table-spoonfuls of shelled shrimps, and serve quite hot, but the sauce must not boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a pint of sauce. Godiveau (a French forcemeat).—Take a pound of the fillet of veal, and a pound and a half of good beef suet. Remove the skin and gristle, chop the meat small, and pound it in a mortar. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of scalded and minced parsley, and a tea-spoon- ful of chopped onions or chives, if these are suitalile for the dish with which the forcemeat is to be served. Add, whilst pounding—a tea- spoonful at a time—two well-beaten eggs, and a little water. Take the forcemeat up, and put it in a cool place for an hour. It should have been so thoroughly pounded that no pieces are distinguishable. When a large quantity of forcemeat is required, a little custard may be gradually mixed with the other ingredients. This forcemeat should be made in a cool place, and quickly. It is a good plan to fry a small