Ixxiii PRINCIPLES—SERVIXG DINXER. time. It is quite impossible to lay down any exact i-ule for the length of a dinner, which indeed varies, some houses being always—I don't know why—quicker than othei-s. Perhaps the difference is dependent on the host's conversational powers. The success of dinner very much depends upon the forethought of those who wait. Fii-st, let the cloth be laid a good hour before dinner, and let the waiter remember this one gi'eat principle of success—Let everything be in the room that is possible beforehand. No dinner can be successful when the waiter or waitress has iii-st to run down-stairs to get some more bread, then to disappear again for the i-ed-curi-ant jelly to hand with the mutton, or the mustard with the beef, and so on through dinner. It is so easy to look ahead. Again, it is shocking bad management to have to open fresh sherry in the middle of dinner. If champagne he served, either have enough or don't give any. I consider one bottle of champagne sent round for eight or ten persons far worse than giving none at all. Have also the wires of the champagne bottles taken off beforehand : it saves time. It also saves time to put a good-sized piece of bread to each person at starting. It is quite i-idiculous to see what small pieces of bread, or what tiny little rolls, &re put round at some houses. Some persons' dinners are quite spoilt for want of bread, and bread is one of those things that even good waiters ai'e very ajjt to forget to hand of their own accord. It is not pleasant at dinner, unless you are very intimate with the people, to have to ask for things. Let each person remember in Jiow many instances tlieii* dinner has been sj)oilt by the want of bread, and at any rate I'esolve that in their own houses they will take precautions not to spoU the dinnera of their guests. It is a good plan to tell the waiter to hand round some bread early in the dinner, and have it cut up, some large pieces, and some small Some persons are what may be termed greedy bread-eaters, and by this means you give them a chance to help themselves. It is exceedingly annoying to have a nice piece of partridge or woodcock getting cold on one's plate, and to see it and smell it while waiting for bread. It will always, too, be advisable to have the bread so kept that it is what may be called a happy medium between being too new and too dry. New bread should never be eaten with meat, as it is exceedingly indigestible. The meat in sandwiches which is cut from new bread is apt to turn bad very quickly, and it will be found that new bread eaten at duiner has the unamiiible tendency of causing the dinner to disagree. One very important point essential to the good order c: a dinner is that the cook or head-waiter should calculate beforehand the probable number of plates, knives, and forks that will be required, and to be prepared, so that the supply of either does not fail. We will take the ordinary and simple case of a dinner-party of twelve pei-sons, the dinner consisting of soup and fish, four entrees, two joints—say roast beef and boiled fowl—game, and sweets—the latter being pie and pudding—and four side dishes. Now there are probably very few establishments that would be capable of going through a dinner of this description without washing up some things during the time dinner is proceeding. First, there will be required twelve soup plates^ and twelve dessert-spoons. Now, unless the plate chest is of an unusual magnitude, these same dessert-spoons will probably be again required for the sweets, as should these latter be at all of good quality a relay of spoons may very possibly be required tor them. But it is the large forks that will be found to require the gi-eatest care. For mstance, supposing m the dinner we have mentioned that each person ISTRO.—3*