ASP (34) shiipod tlittm like a poar, thon Htowod thorn gmitly ill tliroo pints of water witli two or tlii'iio onions thinly hHcoiI, onts ounce of salt, and one onnco of butter, lie thon placed a border of mashed potatoes round a disli, stuck the articliokes in it points upwards, jwured over them either white sauce or melted butter, and liut a lino brusscls Hi)rout between each. It mado a pretty inviting; dish. Time to boil, Jilmut twenty minutes. They should bo tried Avith a fork frequently after a quarter of an hour, as they wnU. become Itlack and tasteless if allowed to remain on the fire longer than necessary. ^Ulow two pounds for 'a tui-cen. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Artiohokes, Jerusalem, Fricasseed. —Boil some artichokes according to the pre- ceding recipe. Take them out of the water and drain them. Put a breakfast - cupful of nulk into a saucepan, ilavom- it with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and thicken it Avith a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Turn the artichokes into this, and let all stew together gently for a few minutes. Time to stew, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for a tureen. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Pried.—Pare and cut the artichokes in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and fry them in sufficient boiling oil or ikrd for them to swim in imtil they are a rich brown. Strew a little salt over them, pile high on a dish, and send to table hot. Time to fry, eight or ten minutes. Sufficient, two pounds for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Artichokes, Jerusalem, in White Sauce.—Wash and pare the artichokes, and throw each root as it is pared into cold water, to preserve the colour. Cut a little piece off one end, so that each one will stand, and taper the other end. Boil them in milk and water, and when tender arrange them in a dish with the points uppermost, and pour over them a good white sauce. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for a tureen. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Mashed.— AVasli and pare some artichokes; boil them in salt and water until quite tender, then drain and press the water thoroughly from them. Put them into a saucepan, and beat to a pulp; adding salt, pepper, and a little cream. Serve quite hot. Time to boil, twenty minutes; to mash, five minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Allow two pounds for four or five persons. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Soup, or Puree of.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan : lot it melt; then throw into it two bay-leaves, one sliced onion, three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, pared, and sliced, and lialf a pound of bacon in rashers. Keep these well stiiTcd in the boiling butter for about ten minutes; then add to them, gradually, one pint of stock. liOt all boil up together imtil tho vegetables arc thoT-nughly conked; then add tlirco pints more .''tock, stii* it wcU, add pepper and salt to taste, press it through a sieve, and add one pmt of boiling milk. Boil five minutes more, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice. 'I'ime to boil, about one hour and a half Probable cost, lOd. ]^(;r i^int. .Sufficient fo,- wii persons. Artichokes Stewed in Gravy.—strip off tli() leaves frojn tli(j artichokes, remove the chokes, and soak tluim in lukewann water for three hours, changing tho water three or four times. Place them in a saucepan with enough gravy to cover them, a tfible-sprxjnful of mmsh- room ketchu]), the juice of a lemon, and a ])ieco of butter, tho size of a walnut, roUed in flour. Let them stew gently until tender, then sen'e with the sauce poured over them, and as liot om possible. Time to stew, half an hour. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Artichokes, Stuffed. — ITioroughly wash tho artichokes, lioil them until they are nearly tender, drain them, remove the middle leaves and the chokes, and lay in each a little good forcemeat, and put them in a mode- rate oven untU the meat is sufficiently cooked. Make a little good melted butter to serve with them. Time to bake, half an hour. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, 6d. each. Ashantee Pudding.—Shred finely, with a little flour, half a pound of suet; mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three ounces of ground rice, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and the rind of a lemon, finely chopped. Stir all together; then add three eggs, and if it is too stiff, a little milk may be put in. Place the mixture in a weU-oiled basin; steam it, and serve hot, with melted butter and a little sherry. Time to steam, two hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six persons. Ashberry Jelly.—This fruit is not often for sale, but must be gathered from the Moun- tain Ash. Wash the fruit thoroughly, and put it into a preserving-pan with water suf- ficient to cover it. Let it simmer gently imtU the water is red and has a bitter taste; then strain but do not squeeze the fruit. Put a pound of sugar to every pint of liquor, and boil it over a good fii-e until it jellies. Pour it into jars, and when cold cover ■with tissue paper dipped in gum water. The fruit should be gathered when it is red, but before the frost has touched it. It should be placed on the table with venison. Time to boil, about forty minutes. Asparagus, Boiled.—Choose bimches of asparagus which have the cut fresh and tho heads straight. If the cut end is broAvn and dry, and the heads bent on one side, the as- jiaragus is stale. It may be kept a day or two ^vith the stalks in cold water, but is much better fresh. Scrape oft' the white sldn from the lower end, and cut the stalks of equal length. Let them lie in cold water until it is time to cook them. Put a handful of salt into a gallon of water; and lot it boil. Tie the asimragus in bundles and piit them into it. Toast a slice of bread brown on each side, dip it in the water, and lay it on a dish. A\'hen the asjMiragus is sufficiently cooked, dish it on the toast, lcavin<;