NEC TfEA ( 454 ) been woU rubhod upon the rind of a largo fresh lemon. Lot the custard nearly boil, then stir into it 11 tublo-spoonful of flour which has been naixod smoothly with a littlo cold water. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and stir the mixture over tho t're until it thickens. When ahnost cold add Iho woU-beaton yolks of three eggs, put tho pudding into a moderate oven, and bake until it stilfons. Whip the whites of tho • eggs to a firm froth, spread this on the top of the pudding, and sift about a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar over the surface. Put tho pudding in tho oven again eight or ton minutes before it is served, that tho eggs may stiffen a little. Time to bake, half an houf. Probable cost, lOd. yufficiont for four persons. Neapolitan Gateau {see Gateau, Na- politaine). Neapolitan Ice Glace, Napolitainc). Neapolitan Sauce.—Take one ounce of lean ham, mince it finely, and put it into a small stewpan with quarter of a pint of thickened brown sauce, four table-spoonfuls of stock, a glassful of claret, ono table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce, two table-spoonfuls of red- currant jelly, one table-spoonful of grated horse-radish, two shallots, a small bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, one clove, an inch of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. Simmer gently for twenty minutes; strain, and serve. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for sLx: or seven persons. Neapolitan Sweetmeats (a Dish for a Juvenile Party).—Eoll out some good puff- paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds, diamonds, or any shapes that may be preferred, remembering only to have an equal number of each shape. Place these on a Houred baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. "Wlien cold spread a thick layer of different coloured jams upon half of them, press the other halves on the top, and garnish with a little piping of pink and white icing. Time, ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. per pound. Neats' Feet, Potted.—Boil two neat's feet in a small quantity of water untU. the ficsh easily leaves the bones. Cut the meat into small pieces, and place these neatly in a mould. Season a small quantity of the liquid with salt, cayenne, and a little mace; pour it upon the meat, and when cold and stiff turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, four hours or more to simmer the feet. Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient for six or savcn persons. Neats' Feet Soup.—Take two neat's feet which have been marely scalded and cleaned, not boUed. Put them into a stewpan with three quarts of good stock, one pound of pickled pork, a bundle of sweet herbs, and tho rind and juice of a small lemon; simmer gently for four "hours until the liquid is reduced to about half its quantity and the bones leave the flesh easily. Strain the soup ; cut tho moat into convenient-sized pieces, and return both again to the saucepan, adding one pint of strong beef- gravy and a glassful of sherry. Season with a littlo cayenne and Sfilt, if necessary; boil up once more, and serve. Time, live houi-s. Probable cost of feet, 8d. each. Sullicient for six or eight persons. Neats| Feet with Parsley Sauce.— A neat's foot or cow's heel, which is the same thing, is generally three-parts cooked when offered for sale. If it is wished to cook it separately, ono or two recipes will be found elsewhere; but the substance of the feet con- sists of so little besides gelatine and bones that they are more valuable when stewed to enrich other dishes than when served by themselves. They are sometimes stewed with a very small quantity of water until the bone leaves the flesh, and then sei-\'ed with a little parsley and butter, flavoured with lemon- juice. Probable cost, 8d. each. Sufficient, one foot for two persons. Neats' Tongues, To Salt for im- mediate use.—Take a couple of neats' tongues. Trim them neatly, and cut off the roots without taking away the under fat, wash them thoroughly, dry them in a cloth, and rub them well with two ounces of common salt, one ounce of brown sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Place them in a long deep pan, and turn and rub them every day for a fortnight, at the end of 'which time they will be ready for use. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each. Sufficient, one tongue for eight or nine persons. Neats' Tongues Cured for Seep- ing.—Prepare two tongues by trimming them neatly and cutting off the roots without disturbing the under fat. "Wash and dry them, and rub them well with an ounce of saltpetre and an ounce of sal prunella. Rub them well eve^y day for four days ; place them in a long earthenware pan, cover them with a pound of common salt, and turn them every day for three weeks. Wipe them with a soft cloth, dip them in bran, and hang them in smoke for a fortnight. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each. Neat's Tongue, Potted.—Take half a pound of cold boiled neat's tongue, with a small quantity of fat. Cut it into thin slices, and pound it in a mortar; season it ■with half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of fresh mustard, and three or four grates of nutmeg; add, whilst pounding, two ounces of clarified butter. Press tho meat into small pot- ting-jars, and pour clarified butter over the top. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Nectar.—Take off the thin rind of two fresh lemons, and put it into an earthenware jar with one pound of chopped raisins and a pound and a half of sugar. Pour over these ingredients two gallons of boiHng water, let the liquid stand until cold, then add the strained juice of the lemons, and leave it in a cool place for a week, stirring it every day. Strain it through a jelly- bag until quite clear, and bottle it for present use. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for two gallons of nectar. Nectar (another way).—Take two pounds of chopped raisins, four pounds of loaf sugar, and two gallons of boiling water. Mix these