MEA ( 418 ) MEG of eggs, beat all well together, form the mix- tui'o into balls abuut the size of au egg, aud fry for six luiuutos, or drop them into boiliiig soup, stock, or water; pour rich gravy over thoiu before sorving. Time to make, half an hour. Sufficient for six balls. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of cold moat. Meat Strudels.—Make a paste as fol- lows :—Bout well four eggs, keeping out the whites of two; add to tho eggs an ounce of dissolved butter, and dredge in as much flour as will make a dough firm to the touch and quite smooth. Divide the dough into pieces of equal weight, about the size of an egg; roll each piece into a ball, and then with the rolling-pin flatten it to the desired size and thinness. Mince any kind of meat very fine; season and flavour according to taste, and moisten with a gravy thickened, or some thick cream. EoU the strudels up, when, if tho paste has been rolled to an oval shape, they will be large in the middle and tapering at both ends. Butter the bottom of a wide-bottomed braising-pan; lay in the strudels an inch or more apart; put hot coals on the top of the lid, and bake over a slow fire. When the strudels are risen and beginning to colour, brush them over with hot nulk, and finish the baking; they should be a light brown. The above recipe will be applicable to any kind of preserve, sweet rice, or any savoury mince of fish, lobster, shrimps, &c. Meat Washing.—If meat is not perfectly sweet, it should be washed before being dressed. In frosty weather, if it has become congealed, it should be thawed by being soaked in cold water for a time. In these cases, particular care should be taken to wipe the meat perfectly dry before cooking it. Mecca Loaves.—Put a half pint of milk, or of milk and water, into an enamelled stew- pan, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter. When the mUk boils, and the butter is dissolved, draw the pan from the fire, and stir in, gi-adually, from four to five ounces of fine flour and three or four eggs, one by one. Flavour with orange essence, and add, just before baking, a small cupful of cream, weU frothed, which should be stirred gently with the rest. Drop this paste from a table-spoon on to a baking-sheet, at equal distances; do this slowly, to give the loaves the proper elon- gated form. Cover with beaten egg, and strew roughly-powdered lump sugar, like pearl-barley, and dredge some more fine dust of sugar over them. Let the loaves be quite two inches apart. Bake to a good golden yellow, in a moderate oven. When cold, and abont to be served, arrange the loaves in a circle, and fill the hollow with whipped cream, flavoui-ed with any kind of liqueur. Time, from ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Mecklenburg Liver Sausages. — Take the liver from a pig while it is quite fresh; mince it, and then pass it through a coarse sieve, but first ascertain its weight. To a pound of the liver, mix a half pound of pork (boiled tender), that has been cut from any part of the pig, although slices from the brejtst are usually taken. Take the tongue, Iddneys, I and some of the inside fat; chop this meat, but do not mince it, and mix all with the raw liver. Season with salt, pepper, powdered cloves or allspice, and a few Bage-leaves re- duced to powder. Tho top-fat, from the boUing of tho meat, and the liquor should both be used. Put the fat, with the meat, into the skins when tilling, and boil the sausages in the hquor (salted), which must be made quite hot before they are put in. Plunge them, when cooked, into cold water; then hang them to dry. To be smoked, or not. The skins must be only three- parts filled. Time to boil, half an hour. Mecklenburg Liver Sausages (another way).—See Liver Sausages, Mecklen- burg, Smoked. Mecklenburg Sausages.—Prepare the following ingredients, with which fiU the sau- sage-skins, and boil half an hour :—Chop finely equal proportions of fat and lean pork, and to every pound add a small tea-spoonful of salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and half that quan- tity of groimd aUspice. If these ingredients appear too dry, they may be moistened with a little wine or brandy. When made with equal weight of lean beef and fat pork, then pressed one whole day and smoked, these sausages will keep, without being cooked, for many weeks; they are usually sliced, and eaten raw. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Medlar Jelly.—Get quite ripe medlars, without bruise; let them simmer gently, with water about half an inch over the tops. \\Tien fit to pulp, strain the fruit through a jelly-bag; if not clear the first time, repeat the straining; add to every pint of juice, a pound of good loaf sugar, boil fast, skimming constantly. When cooled a little, pour the jelly into glasses or moulds, to be turned out for dessert. The jeUy should be quickly boiled until it will set. Medley Pie, Leicestershire {see Leicestershire Medley Pie). Meg MerUees Soup.—A soup, or stew, for the sportsman or country gentleman when game is abundant. In seasons of scarcity, meat helps to form the basis or stock ; but for the gourmet, boil down a rather old hare, with the blood, the trimmings, and inferior parts of venison, and any game-bones; but all should be fresh. Boil in three quarts of water, with a bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, two large turnips, two caiTots, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a dessert-spoon- ful of whole pepper, .and one of aUspice. ^V^len boiled to a pulp, strain, and add to the stock as great a variety of game as can be procured—a young hare, or part of one (neatly jointed), black cock, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.—all cut, and well spiced, to be fried slightly, or not, according to taste, before being put into the strained stock. The blood of the hare must not be omitted. IMix a little broth, and boil with a good thickening of rice-flour, to be after- wards stirred into the rest of the stock. More seasoning will be required of allspice, pepper, and salt. AVhen boiling, thoow in a dozen but- ton-onions, two sticks of celery (cut into quarter- inch lengths), and a small white cabbage (quartered). Simmer gently, until the game is