GOD ( 2G0 ) GOO qimntity of it in hot fat, to see if it suits the ttisto, ami thou udd either another egg, a little water, or a little more soasoniug, as required. Time, about half an hour to jjrepare. Tro- bablo cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Godiveau Raised Pie.—A good dish may be nuule by lilling a raised pie witli balls made of Godiveau forconioat {m-e the preceding recipe), mi.xed with any sjivoury ragoiit, and pouring over the whole a rich sauce. Golden Pippinsj To Preserve.—Take one dozen golden [tippnis, ])aro tlioni, and scoop out the core, witliout breaking the apples. I'ut two pounds of sugar into a proserving-pan, with one pint of water, and—for a few minutes— the rind of a Seville orange cut into strips; then put in the pippins, and, when the syrup seems thick, add a pint of apple jelly, nicely Havoured with lenion. Boil quickly until the jelly is clear, then lift the jiippins into jars, pour the syrup, &c., over them, and, when cold, cover securely. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Golden Pudding.—Shred very finely six ounces of beef-suet; mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a pound of orange marmalade, three eggs, and a pinch of salt. A little baking- powder will make the pudding lighter. Beat all the ingredients well together, and, if the pudding is not sufficiently moistened, add a little milk. Tie down in a well-floured cloth, and boil for three hours. Serve with v/ine sauce. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Golden Pudding (another way).—Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of butter, mix with it a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of orange marmalade, two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Beat all thoroughly together; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Serve with a little sherry. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Good Friday Buns • (commonly called Hot Cross Buns).—Kub a quarter of a poimd of butter into two pounds of flour. Add a pinch of salt; then mix a wine-glassful of fresh, thick yeast with a pint and a half of warmed milk, and stir these into the flour till it forms a light batter. Put the batter in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently risen, work into it half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, half a nutmeg, grated, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace. Knead these well into the dough, make it up into buns, and place them on buttered baking-tins. Make a cross on them with the back of a knife, brush a little clarified butter over the top, and let them stand a quarter of an hour before the fire. Bake in a good oven. When bread is made at home, hot cross bims may be made by mixing the currants, «&c., with bread dough after it has risen. Time, one hour to let the dough rise; twenty minutes to bake. Suflicient for two dozen buns. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this, quantity. Goose (a la Daube).—If a goow ih Uxj old to be tender when roasted, it may be ad van- > tageously cooked as follows:—Truss the goose * as for boiling. Eitlier lard it, or pbice two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of tJie pan in whicli it is to be stewed. Put it into a stew- pan with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of savoui-r herbs, one root of jjarsley, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, lialf a dozen iJC'iJperconis, a tea- spoonful of salt, two glasses of sherry, lialf a glass of brandy, and as mucli stock or water as will just cover the goose. Put on the lid very tightly, and stew gently for four hours. Disli the goose. Strain the saui^e, and jiour ii on the dish. If the goose is to be served aAd, reduce the sauce to a jelly, and poui- as much over the goose as the dish will neatly hold. The giblets may be stewed with the goose, and used separately. Sufficient for eight or ten poi-soiiij. Probable cost of goose, 6s. Goose fa I'ArlesienneV—Truss a goose as for boiling. Stufi: it with a forcemeat made as fol- lows :—Boil four large onions for a few minutes. Drain, chop them small, and mix with them four ounces of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in mUk, thi-ee ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a nutmeg, gi-ated, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of chestnuts prepared as for force- meat {see Chestnut Forcemeat). Put the goosf in a braizing-pan, -with a large sliced carrot, half a head of celery, or a quarter of a drachm of poimded celery-seed tied in muslin, a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with six cloves, a sprig of parsley, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and as much stock or water as will barely cover the goose. Let it braize slowly for two hours, then take it out, strain the- liquor, skim off the fat, and boU it down until it is considerably reduced. Mix with it an equal quantity of tomato sauce, and serve the goose ynth the sauce poured roimd it. Probable cost of goose, 6s., when in fuU season. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Goose, Bonne Bouche for. —Mix very smoothly half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, with a glass of port, and pour it into the goose just before serving, through a slit made in the apron. Time, ten minutes to pre- pare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one goose. Goose, Braized (a la Jardiniere).—Cook a goose according to the directions given for Goose II la Daube. "^Tien it is sufficiently stewed, put in the Hquid any quantity of mixed vegetables, ready cooked, such as French brans, green peas, pieces of cauliflower, and cairot." and turnips, cut into shapes. Thicken the sjiuce,. let aU boil up together, and serve with the goose. ■ Time, four hours to stew. . Proliable cost of goose, 6s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons (.w n/so Goose, to Braise). i Goose, Cold Sauc3 for. —Put two oimros of green sago-lo.nvos into a jar with one ounce of thin lemon-rind, a minced shallot, a