( 340 ) JEIi JEL the firmness of tlio jolly. Pour it into diinip moulds, and put it in a cool place, to bcjcoino stilt" again. Tiuio, a fow niinutos to dissolvo; some hours to becomo firm again. Probablo cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. per pint. Jelly Bread (Invalid Cookeuy). —Re- move t\w crust from a penny roll. Cut the crumb into thin slices, and toast those to a briglit brown on each side. Put them into a saucepan Avith a cjuart of cold spring water, and simmer gently until the liquid will jelly, which point may bo known by putting a little on one side to cool. Strain through muslin, sweeten, and flavour with wine and lemon-juice, if per- mitted. Time, an hour and a half to two houi-s. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the ■wine. Sufficient for one person. Jelly, Cream.—Put three pints of water into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of hartshorn-shavings, and boil gently until the liquid will jelly. This may be easily ascer- tained by taking a little in a spoon, and letting it get cold. When sufficiently boiled, strain it, and add half a pint of cream, two table-spoon- fuls of rose or orange-flower -water, two table- spoonfuls of sherry, and two ounces of sifted sugar. Boil all together gently for five minutes, stirring all the time, to prevent the mixture curdling. When cool, poiir it into a damp mould, turn it out as soon as it is stiff, and poirr over it half a pint of cream, flavoured according to taste. Time, about three hours to simmer the shavings. Sufficient for a quart mould. Jelly Custard.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan, sweeten and flavour according to taste, and when it is lukewarm, pour it over the yolks of six well-beaten fresh eggs. Stir it over the fire until it is thick, but it must not boil; then add an ounce of dissolved isin- glass. Soak half a dozen small moulds of different sizes in water, pour in the custard, and when firmly set turn out the moulds, arrange them prettily on a dish, and pour over them a syrup flavoured with lemon-peel, and coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Jelly - Custard Tartlets. — Dissolve ' two table-spoonfuls of strawberry or red cur- rant jelly over the fire. Let it get quite cool, then mix with it gradually three well-beaten eggs. Three parts fill some tartlet tins, lined with puff paste, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for half a dozen tartlets. Jelly, Fancy.— A variety of pretty- looking dishes may be made with jelly, either hy using difl'erent colours, and allowing one colour to become perfectly firm before another colour is added, or by using the fancy moulds which are now so generally made. In these dishes very much depends upon the taste of the cook. A piece of cardboard may he cut out to fit the middle of the mould vety closely, and different-coloured jellies poured in at each side. Or a layer of one colour may be poured in, and allowed tf) become quite cold before another is added, and thus the mould be filled. This plan requires some time. When the mould is umde with hollow balls at the top, as is frequently the case, a pretty efliect may be produced by lilUng those balls only with a bright-coloured jelly, and when they are finhly set, adding the rest uncoloured. Another way is to half fill the uKJuld with blancmange, when tliis is set to pour over it a thin layer of jelly, and afterwards fill up with blancmange again. When there are any remains of difl'erent-coloured jelh(.'S they should be put into one mould, and a httle clear jelly, quite cold, and nearly set, poured over them. The fancy of the cook wiU doubtless suggest endless varieties for these dishes. Jelly Fish.—Make a quart of jeUy accord- ing to the directions given for Jelly Meat for Cold Pies. If at hand, the head and trim- mings of turbot, whiting, or skate may be stewed with the calf's foot, but they are not indispensable. Pass the jelly through the tamis until quite clear, and clarify it, if neces- sary, with the beaten whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Pour a layer of the jelly, about JEUY FISH. an inch in depth, into a wet mould, and when it is firmly set arrange some prawns or cray- fish roimd the edges, and add the remainder of the jelly. The fish must be put into the jelly backs downward, as it must be remembered that their position will be reversed when turned out. Time, about three hours to set each layer. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Jelly for Pies, To Clarify.—Jelly for pies should be made bright and clear in the same way as calf's-foot jelly—that is, it should be allowed to get cold, and then every particle of fat should be removed, the sediment which settles at the bottom of the pan being left undisturbed, and the jelly should be mixed thoroughly, when cold, with the whites and shells of eggs, two eggs being used for every pint of jelly. The contents of the saucepan must not be stirred after they once begin to heat, and they must boil a few minutes, and afterwards stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes, to settle, before the scum is removed and the jelly strained. If the moat bo slowly boiled,' jeily wiU seldom require clarifj-ing with white of egg, but it should always be made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat and sediment may be effectually removed. Time, ten minutes to boil the jelly, and a (|uartcr of an hour to let it settle. Jelly for the Sick (Invalid Cookery).— Care should be taken in making jelly for