MUT ( 448 ) MUT pi-nvy, hakod tomatoes, or currant jelly. Time, a quarter of an hour to tlio pound. Probahle eost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four poundn for four or live persons. Mutton, Oxford John {nee Oxford John). Mutton Patties. — Lino some tartlet- moulds witli a good paste. Take an equal weight of lean nnitton from the fillet and fat bacon, which pound together. Keason to taste with Halt, a very small quantity of spice, and cayenne pepper. Place a round ball of the meat into each patty-pan, cover with paste, and make a small hole in the centre. Bake in a quick oven, and pour into each patty through a funnel a little well-seasoned gravy, or glaze before the patties get cold. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of paste, Is. 4d. per pound. Mutton Patties (another way).—These patties are often made with • cooked meat, which is minced, then hashed in good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little ketchup. The mince should not boil, but be made hot, and thickened. Patty.pans, lined with half puflE-paste and filled with the meat, will require a very short time to bake. Cover with the paste, and put them into a quick oven. Time, about fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost of paste, Is. per pound. Mutton Pie.—A very good family pie is made with the remains of a cold leg, loin, or any other joint of mutton from which nice neat slices of rather lean meat can be cut. These should be put with a good seasoning, in alter- nate layers with thinly-sliced potatoes, into a pie-dish, commencing at the bottom with some of the meat, and finishing at the top with pota- toes. Parsley, savomy herbs, onion, or shallot, with a little mace, white pepper, and salt may be used at discretion. A cupful of good gravy from the meat should be poured into the pie before the crust is put on. Suet is generally used for the crust. Time, an hour to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 6d. to 8d. Mutton Pie, Good.—Make a seasoning of chopped parsley (about two table-spoonfuls), of powdered savoury herbs and a minced shallot, in equal proportions, a dessert-spoonful, or an onion shred small, the shallot being omitted, with pepper and salt to taste. Cut from two to three pounds of neat chops from the loin or neck of mutton, weighed after the bone and much of the fat have been removed; put them, well covered with the above seasoning, into a pie- dish. Cut three kidneys into halves, and each half into two parts, distribute them equally amongst the meat, pour in half a pint of veal broth or water, and bake with a puff or good suet crust; the latter will be found very suit- able if eaten hot. A table-spoonful of ketchup and two of port wine may be added to the gravy, but there should in that case be less water. Time, about an hour and three-quai-ters to bake. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Mutton, Potted.—Cntintothinslices.and then pound together in a mortar, eight ounces of well-dressed roast mutton, freed from fat and sinew, and half that quantity of boiled tongue; then mix with the pounded meat three ounctm of good fresh l)utter, and add, while ]>ounding, a Kiilt-spoonful each of made nnistaid and wJii'te pc])i)er, witli a quarter of a grain of cayenne, and salt, if r(;(iuired. Store in a cool plact!,and in an earthenware jar, or in several small ones, over which should 1)o run some cbirified butter. Mutton, Quality of,—"The quality of mutton," says a well-known authority, "varies much in the different breeds. In the large long-hair(;d shiicp it is coarse- grained, l)ut disposed to 1j<; fat. In tlie smaller and short-woolled breed the flesh is closest grained and highest flavoured, but th(j quality of the flesh is probably most uifwUtd by that of the food upon which the flocks are fed. Those which range over the mountainous districts of Wales and Scotland, or the chalk downs of England, and feed upon the wild herbage, possess a flavour very superior to those kept in rich pastures and on marsh land. The Welsh mutton is particularly small and lean, but of the finest flavour. Marsh-fed mutton often becomes extremely fat, but the meat has a rank taste. Turnips, hay, chaff, bran, com, and other vegetables, as likewise oU-cake and grains, are employed for fattening sheep for the market; but such mutton is never so good as that produced when the animals can range in free- dom. In point of delicacy and flavour, South- dovra Wether mutton is considered equal to any that is killed: in summer it is thought preferable to some other finely-flavoured breeds, especially Norfolk mutton. This circumstance is said to arise from the closeness of the grain, or from the specific gravity being greater, rendering it more impermeable to the air than mutton that is coarser and looser-fleshed, the latter being, of course, more subject to putridity. The older the mutton the finer is its flavour. Wedder mutton is always preferred so much before that of the ewe that the flesh of the latter, although more commonly kept to a mature age, always sells at an inferior price." Mutton, BagOUt of.—Slice thinly two turnips, two carrots, and two onions ; these last brown in a broad-bottomed stewpan with two ounces of butter or dripping, shaking in a little flour, and stirring to prevent it from browning too quickly. Cut small short chops from a cold roast loin or neck, or from the breast small square pieces, free them from fat, and brown them on each side in the same butter; then pour in as much weak broth or water as may be required, say about half a pint, and add the sliced turnips and carrots, a sprig or two of parsley, and some pepper and salt. Stew very gently until the vegetables are tender. The flavour of this ragout may be varied by the introduction of celery, cut lettuces, or green peas, and these last, when in season, are generally preferred to turnips and carrots. Arrange the meat in a circle, and put the vegetables in the centre, with the sauce over all. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 4d. Sufficient, a pound and a half for four persons. Mutton, Ragout of, French.—Place three ounces of butter in a stewpan: us it melts.