ITA I8L ( 833 ) "boiled. The best isinglass will require half an hour's gentle boiling to dissolve it. Isle of WigM Cracknels—Beat weU the yolks of foui- eggs with two table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, add the beat part of a small nutmeg and a Uttle salt to about a pound and three-quai-ters of fine flour, and make it into a stiff paste with the egg. Squeeze out aU the milk from one pound of fresh butter, which roll into the paste, and form into cracknels. Throw these into fast-boiling water, and when done enough (this may be known when they float to the surface) plunge them into cold water to harden. Bake on tins as soon as dry. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Italian Cream.—Put a pint of cream aiul milk, in equal parts, into a saucepan, with loaf sugar according to taste, and the rind of a lemon, reserving the juice. Keep it boiling slowly imtil the lemon has suffi«iently flavoixred, then strain it into a bowl, in order to mix freely the yolks of four eggs already weU beaten. Pour this mixture into a jug, and set the jug in boiling water. Take care ISiat the contents do not boil; stir them till they become thick, when remove the cream from the fire, and when cool stir into it the lemon-juice and,an ounce of dissolved isinglass. The cream must now be weU whipped, and, if it is to be served in glasses, drained on a sieve, but if for a mould fill the mould with the cream when whipped, and set it in a cold place (on ice if possible) to set. Turn the cream out on a glass dish, and ornament with crystallised or preserved fi'uits. Time, from five to eight minutes to stir in the jug. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half. Italian Cream (another way).—Stir into a pint of thick cream the rinds of two lemons rubbed off on lumps of sugar, and as much more pounded loaf sugar as wiU sweeten. Whisk up the cream with the juice of one lemon, strain an ounce or more of dissolved isinglass to it, and beat weU. together. Flavour with noyau or curacjoa, and fiill a mould. Freeze, turn out, and garnish with any kind of sweet- meats or preserved fruits. Time, haK an hour. Probable cost 2s. 9d., exclusive of liqiiors. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Italian Cream (another way).—See Cream, Italian. Italian Jelly.—This is made with any fruit jelly. Take an earthenware mould which has previously lain in cold water for two or three hours, fill it about half-way up with jelly. When it is quite firm, place upon it a thick layer of stiff blancmange, cut to the size of the mould. Now fill up with another fruit jelly nearly cold. Italian Macaroni Soup.—Drop three oimces of macaroni into boiling water, and keep it boiling for twenty minutes. Drain, and cut it into inch lengths, or it may be broken before being put into the water. Have ready two quarts of clear gravy soup, boiling hot, into which throw the macaroni, and simmer for about ten minutes. Servo with grated Par- mesan in a dish. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for eight persons. Italian Macaroons.—Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds (expose them to the air for a day or two before they are required to be pounded) with a little orange-flower water, one pound of sifted sugar, and the frothed whites of three eggs. Smooth the ingredients by.rubbing them well together, and add very gradually the frothed whites. When the paste looKs soft and smooth, drop it, in quan- tities about the size of a walnut, through a funnel on to some wafer-paper. Bake on the ordinary plate, in a rather slow oven, to a pale colour. A strip or two of almond should be stuck on the top of each macaroon before baking. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per pound. Italian Meringues.—Boil a pound of the finest lump sugar in a pint of water. When it has boiled long enough to whiten and become flaky as it di'ops from the spoon, scrape from the sides of the pan any sugar that maj- be adhering, and stir in six whites of eggs, which have been whisked to the stiffest possible froth; do this very gradually and slowly, at the same time mixing the mass as briskly as possible to make it smooth. Continue to stir until the mixture is firm enough to retain the shape of a tea-spoon, in which it is now to be moulded. Slip the meringues quickly off on paper, and harden in a gentle oven, that they may retain their delicate whiteness. Almonds are sometimes pounded, and mixed witli the eggs apd sugar. These are very superior to the plain meringues, but they will require more care in baking, and they will take a longer time ; they should be crisp, and only lightly browned. Blanch and poxmd the almonds. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost. Is. for this quantity. Italian Pastes.—Italy is famous for its various lands of paste, the best being made from the small Sicilian wheat, which is harder, and contains more albumen than our northcin wheats. Macaroni, lasagni, vermiceUi, are all of tbe same paste, as are stars, rings, and other shapes. The Genoese paste is made of the finest and whitest flour, but every city has its paste manufactory. The Neapolitan is of slightly coarser flour, but when fresh is often preferred by cooks, as it is more speedily dressed. The price of macaroni is now much less than formerly, the Neapolitan being only sixpence per pound, and Genoese one shilling per pound. There is a French paste manu- factory at Grenoble, but the article it turns out is of inferior quality. In Italy, pastes of aU kinds are dressed in fowl or veal stock for the better tables, and in beef or other bouillon for the ordinary ones. Parmesan and Gruyere cheese accompany the dish, but in England, on account of the expense, home products, such as Cheshire and Derbyshire, may be substituted. Genoa is famous for its ravioli soup, one of the best macaroni soups sent to table. Italian Pie.—Cut thin slices of veal from the fiUet, and prepare a careful seasoning of thyme, parsley, a couple of sage-leaves, pepper (white and cayenne), and salt. Cover the