f'ARf?7i:LL'8 COOKERY. way will come to table presenting that snowy appearance that renders them far more appetismg-not that they taste better, but that the palate is affected tlu-ou^ih tlie eye. ^ COOKING A STEAK. As we have already adverted to those good old sayings current upon the suljject of the principles of cookery, we would refer to that perhaps most common one of all, viz., " The test of a good cook is to cook a steak and boil a potato." Let us dwell for a few moments on the important dish in all English households—" a steak," or a chop. I caixdidly confess that I think a chop or steak one of the very best tests of a good cook, for the simple reason that the proper cooking of either calls forth cei-tain qualities on the cook's part, which nothing but experience can give. These qualities may be briefly summed up in the words—forethought, patience, and common sense. In the first place, the state of the fire is of paramount importance ; and probably the cliief cause of chops and steaks being, as a rule, inferior when cooked in piivate houses to those prepared in public establishments is the difficulty of maintaining a clear fire in the former. To attempt to cook a chop over a fire on which coals have been recently placed is simply an act of insanity. Here, thei-efore, comes in the quality of forethought, to which we have alluded. By keeping the fire bright, and supplying it with judicious ashes or pieces of what we may term home-made coke, much may be done to rival " the grill" of large establishments. We will, therefore, suppose a moderately bright fire, free from gassy exhalations, and also suppose the cook to be above the barbarism of even thinking of a frying-pan as an easier, and, with a view to the "grease-pot," a more profitable piece of machinery than the gridiron. First, place the gridiron on the fire for a minute or so, and then take it off" and smell it. It may seem to some absurd to mention such trifling matters of detail, but then cooking—good cooking—consists in constantly observing details. As we said, smell it, for the simple reason of finding out if it has been properly cleaned. Suppose, for instance, it has cooked a bloater on the last occasion; the heat will bring out the possible omission of cleanliness on the part of the person whose duty it was to see the gridiron put by in its proper state. Having, therefore, warmed it, rub it carefully with a piece of paper; and let those who doubt the ad^-ice thus given go down themselves to their kitcliens and try their own gridiron, and observe the colour of the paper after this very necessary operation. If the gridiron has been used on the last occasion for fish, it will be fomid a good plan, after wiping it with paper, to finish with iiibbing tlie bars with a small slice of onion. By this means a fla\^our highly objectionable is destroyed, and one that, even if detected, would do no harm is given. Suppose, therefore, the gridiron clean, and the chop or steak placed on it. No advice with regard to time is here possible. The cook has to depend entii-ely on his judgment. The state of the fii-e, the size and especially the thickness of the meat, and also the time of year. A chop will require longer cooking in wmter than in summer; and for this reason it is always advisable to have chops or st*!aks placed in the kitchen in winter for some hour or two previous to theii- being cooked. By tliis means, that nasty-looking blue appearance in the middle may often be avoided. Next, cook the chop or steak quickly in the early period ; the reason of this—to keep to our subject, the principles of cookery—is in order that we may surround it