EGG EGG (201 ) Eggs, Jumbled (another way) .-Break six o7 mSro eggs into a basin, and beat thorn with a table-spoonful of gravy and a flavouring of pepper and salt. If wanted, very good minced tiniffles, mushrooms, ham, or tongue may be added. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, pour in the eggs, and stir till they are suiiiciently done. This is an exceedingly con- venient and agreeable breakfast dish. It re- quires very Uttle time to cook, and may be varied according to taste. It is usually served on toast hot and buttered. Time, about five minutes. AUow two eggs for each person. Eggs, Liaison of, for Thickening Sauces.—^Vhen eggs are used for thickening great care is required to keep the sauce from boiling, and the least cessation from stirrmg during the heating process wiU spoil the whole contents of the saucepan. Make a liaison as follows:—Beat well the yolks of three eggs, and add to them three small wine-glassfuls of cream or two and a haK glassfuls of milk. ^Vhen well mixed, strain through a sieve. Eggs, Pickled.—Remove the shells from three or 'four dozen hard-boiled eggs; do not break them, but arrange carefully in large- mouthed jars. Boil one pint of vinegar, with allspice, ginger, and a couple of cloves of garlic. When the flavour of the spice is extracted, add another pint of vinegar, bring it to a boil, and pour scalding hot over the eggs. When cold, seal up the jars for a month. This will be found a cheap pickle when eggs are plentiful, and for its piquancy is much liked. Eggs, Plover's.—These eggs are much esteemed for their rich flavour, and the beau- tiful colour of the white part, which is much used for decorating salads. When boiled hard they are eaten hot or cold; but with a good brown gravy or some bechamel sauce they make a dainty breakfast dish. Eggs, Poached.—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with four tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; place it over the fire, and while boiling break the eggs into it near the surface of the water, and let it boil gently about three minutes. Lay upon a dish a thin piece of toasted bread; take the eggs out carefully with a small slice, and lay the slice with the eggs upon a cloth for a second, to drain the water from them; then set them carefully upon the toast, and serve very hot. Much depends upon the careful breaking and boiling of the eggs. If the yolk separates from the white, it may be presumed that the egg is not fresh, but it may be eatable, for the same thing may happen through awkwardness in poaching. Again, the toast upon which the eggs are served may be buttered either with plain butter, or two small pats of butter may be melted, without boiling, and poured over. To prevent the imsightly admixture of the yolk with the white, the following simple method is recommended:—Use a large stewpan, nearly filled with boiling water; pour two table-spoonfuls of hot water into a saucer, and break the egg carefully in the centre of the, saucer, then gpntly lift it, and place it on the surface of the water in the stewpan; the instant the yolk sets, take out the saucer, and remove the egg with a slice to the dish required. Eggs, Poached (another way).—Kemove the slSa from a boiled or roast chicken, and pound the meat in a mortar with two ounces of good fresh butter. Bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg, put it in a mould, and surround it with boiling water till hot through. Have ready a slice of bread nicely fried in butter, and four or five eggs poached. When the chicken mixture is hot, place it on a dish with the eggs over it, and the sippets of fried bread with sKces of fried mushroom arranged alter- nately as a garnish. Time, ten to twelve minutes; to poach eggs, about three minutes and a half. Sufficient for three or four persons. Eggs, Poached in Gravy.—Take quite fresh eggs, break half a dozen into separate tea-cups, and slip each very gently into a stew- pan of boiling water, one pint in quantity, to which has been added a wine-glassful of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of salt, previously boiled, but set to cool. Put the stewpan over the fire, and as the eggs set, remove them with a slice into a large flat dish, and be very careful not to break them. Trim, drain, and serve them in a rich brown gravy. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for three persona. Eggs, Poached with Cream.—Put half a gill of cream into a small saucepan, and season it with salt, pepper, and pounded sugar to taste. Let it warm gradually, and when ready to boil, remove it from the fire and stir in an ounce of butter; keep moving the saucepan round until the butter is dissolved. Have ready four or five fresh eggs poached; lay them on a dish, pour the sauce quickly over, and serve. Time, three to four minutes to poach the eggs. Probable cost, 9d. Allow two eggs for each person. Eggs, Potted.—Pound the hard-boiled yolks of twelve eggs with anchovy sauce. Mix them to a paste with two ounces of good fresh butter, and season with two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of white pepper. Have ready some small pots, and chop the whites of the eggs very smaU. As the pots are being filled with the paste, strew in the chopped whites, and cover over the tops with clarified butter. These eggs will not keep long. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Eggs, Preserved.—^Whatever process be adopted, the eggs should always be newly laid. A solution of gum arable, if not too expensive, will be found to answer well. Smear the eggs thoroughly, and, when dry, cover with powdered charcoal, bran, or saw- dust. They may also be preserved by plung- ing them in a net in boiling water for about twenty seconds, and then packing in bran, &c. To keep a longer time, make a solution of quick-lijne, salt, and cream of tartar, in the proportion of three poimds of lime, one ounce of cream of tartar, and half a pound of salt, to about five or six quarts of boiling water. When quite cold, cover the eggs with the solution, and throw a thick covering over the vessel. Salt, as in all cases of food preservation,