BEE BEE ( 06 ) over it ono glass of vinegar and a glass of port wine, having previously rubbed it with four ounces of sugar. Keep in a cool, di-y pluce, and turn it ofteu. In five or six days it will Ijo ready ; thou make a raised crust, season witli salt, cayenne, and maco, jiut some butter over the top of the cover, and bako four hours in a slow oven. Boil down the bones to make gravy, add a glass of port Avino, strain, and poui- boil- ing into the pie. Probable cost of meat, Is. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Beef Tongue {see Bullock's Tongue ; Ox Tongue). Beef Tripe, To Boil.—Cut the tripe into small pieces and put into hot milk and water, equal parts, sufficient to cover it, and boil until tender, which will be in about two hours. Get ready some onion sauce, prepared as given below, and when tl\e tripe is dished throw it over. Peel some onions and let them remain a few minutes in salted water; then boil them till tender, changing the water when half done. If Spanish onions are used it will not be neces- sary. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and add to them some sauce composed of two ounces of butter, three-quarters of a pint of milk, and a tea-spoonful of flour. Put the onions to the butter and boil for a minute before adding to the tripe. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Beef Tripe, To Fricassee. — Stew gently in milk and water, two pounds of tripe, cut into strips of equal lengths, with a bunch of parsley and an onion. When it has simmered one hour add the peel of half a lemon, an ounce of butter rubbed in flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and when it has simmered another hour sei^ve with the sauce over, and an edging of rice round the dish. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Tripe, To Roast. — Boil two poimds of tripe for an hour or more, and then cut into convenient-sized pieces. Spread them out, and lay over each a rich veal stuffing. Skewer and tie securely into rolls. Baste con- tinually with butter, and di-edge flour over them. They may either be spitted or baked in an oven. Serve with sliced lemon and immelted butter. Probable cost, 8d. per pound for the best tripe. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, with Sauce Espagnole. — Lard a piece of the inside tiUet (from four to five pounds wiU be a nice size) and lay it —seasoned with salt and pepper—in vinegar for ten or twelve hours. Put it immediately to roast before a quick fire, baste well with butter and the drippings from the meat. When done, glaze over the top, and serve Avith _ the above sauce ( CC3 various recipes for Spanish Sauce). Time to roast, quarter of an hour to the pound. Beef with Wino Sauce Tremblant. —Hang a piece of rump (it should not be a small piece), or part of a brisket, for some days; than simmer it in a stewpan with some allspice, a carrot, two onions, two tur- nips, and salt to taste, till it is done enough. Dissolve a picco of butter in a clean stevpan, and mix into it a dessert-spoonful of floui. Add ono pint of gravy, a gkssful of whit* wino, and equal quantities of ketchup and browning. Tlien cut up two carrots and two turnips, flavour all witli salt and pepper, and stew until the vegetables arc quite tender. Put the meat on a dish, and pour all, first clearing it from any fat, over it. The meat may be glazed or browned with a siilamander, before thr sauce is poured over. Probable cost, Is. pti pound. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. Beef, with Yorkshire Pudding.— Take eggs, flour, and milk, according to tho size of the pudding required. AUow an egg u, every heaped table-spoonful of flour, and salt to taste. Beat it to a prop(;r consistency with good new milk; it should bo thinner than for boiled batter. If this pudding be not required for a large family a separate compartment may be used for it, and the other part of the drip- ping-pan may receive the gravy required to throw over the meat. In any case, place the dripping-pan and joint to the fire tUl the fat begins to flow, before the batter is put in, and stir it roimd in the basin that no sediment may remain. See that it cooks evenly and that the edges are not burned, and when done sufficiently turn if liked. Some prefer it browned on one side only. The usual thickness is abeut an inch when well browned on both sides. Di-vide into pieces sufficient for each person, and send it to table quickly. It should be put into the di'ipping just in time to get it done with the meat. Time, one and a half to two hours. Beer, How to Treat "Foxed."— "Poxed" beer has a rank unpleasant ta.s-te, and may be known by the white specks float- ing on its surface. To remedy this, infuse a handful of hops and a little salt of tartar in a pint of boihng water, and, when cold, strain and pour into the cask, closing the bunghole at once. Beer Soup (German method).—Simmer two quarts of mild beer (it should not be bitter) with the thin rind of a lemon, a few cloves, and a stick of cinnamon, sweeten -with sugar, and add it through a sieve to the yolks of six weU- beaten eggs and half a pint of cream. Whilst pouring into the tureen, stir it to a froth with a wire whisk. The beer should be very hot, -without boiling, before it is stirred with the eggs. Serve hot with toast. Time, about half an hour to simmer. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Beer Soup with Caraway Seeds.-7 Boil some brown bread in a little water imlil soft enough to be beaten to a smooth pulp; put three pints of beer into the soup kettle with a Httle lemon-peel, cinnamon, sugar, and a large tea-spoonful of caraway seeds; mix the bread- pulp to the beer, and boil aU together till the flavour is extracted from the seeds: then beat up four eggs in the tureen, and pour the soup upon them, stiiTing briskly all the time. Serve hot. Time to boQ the beer, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beer Soup with Milk.—Take equal quantities of beer and milk (one quart of each) ;