CXTR ( 171) CXTR dough. Holl out thin, and cut into cakes. Or wash and pick one pound of currants; heat one pound of fresh hutter to a cream, add one pound of sugar, one pound and a half of flour, a tea- Bpoonful of powdered cinnamon, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, the currants, and four eggs well beaten. Another recipe: Clean and pick half a pound of dried currants; heat a quarter of a'poimd of butter to a cream; mix with it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of dried flour, the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs well beaten, the currants, and a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon; beat aU well together for a quarter of an hour. An- other w^ay (economical): Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into one pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, three ounces of picked cvirrants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and enough milk or water to form a stiff dough. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Sufficient, one pound of flour, with the other ingredients, will make about one dozen cakes. Probable cost, from ^d. to 2d. each. Currant Champagne. — Take four quarts of very ripe white currants and four quarts of very ripe red currants; pour over ttiem six quarts of cold water, and bruise and stir them about every day for six days. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and put four pounds of loaf sugar to every gallon of Hqiiid; add one ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little water, and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Leave the wine for two or three days, then put it into a cask, which, when the fermentation is quite over, must be closed. It will be ready to use in six or eight months. Probable cost of currants, variable; when plentiful, 4d. per quart. Currant Cream Ice. — Take one pint of red currant-juice (see Currant, Red, Cream), mix with it a pint of cream, sweeten "uid freeze. A few raspberries or strawberries are an improvement. The ice-cream may be made with red currant jelly instead of juice if the fresh fruit is not in season. Ciurant-water ice is much more wholesome and refreshing than cream ice. It is made by mixing a pint of juice with syrup produced by boiling a pound and a half of sugar with a quart of water, and then freezing the mixture like cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per quart. {See also Currant Water Ice). Currant, Red, Cream.—Express a pint of red currant juice. In order to do this pick the currants and put them into an earthen jar. Cover it closely and put it into a large pan of cold water, which must be so full that it wiU reach to the top of the jar. Let it simmer for two hours. Drain the juice from the currants, mix a pint of it with a pint of thick cream,, add an ounce and a haK of melted gelatine and some sugar. Pour the mixture into a mould, and set it in a cool place to stiffen. Currant, Red, Cream (another way). —Put a small jar of red currant-jelly, the juice of a lemon, half a cupful of water, and two table-spoonfuls of sugar into a saucepan. When the jelly is dissolved, let the mixture cool a Uttle, then add more tragarif necessary. Timo, haK an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suffi- cient for one quart. Currant Custard.—Express the juice from some fine fresh ripe currants. This is best done by putting them in a jar, which must he covered closely and placed in a large pan of cold water, and simmered gently iintil the juice flows freely. Mix a pint of water with every pint of juice, add a little sugar, and put the liquid on the fire. Mix a small portion of ground rice smoothly with a little of the liquid while cold, and add this gradually to the rest. Let it simmer gently, stirring it constantly, until it is quite smooth and well thickened, then pour it into cups or glasses to be taken as custard. Grate a little nutmeg, and put one ratafia on the surface of each custard. The custards are the better for standing a night to stiffen. If set in some very cold place—for instance, in a tin pail plunged in a tub of cold water fresh drawn from the pump —these custards will be as pleasant to the palate in sultry weather as iced custards, vsdthout their disadvantages. Arrowroot may be used instead of ground rice. By increasing the quantity of either ingredient, the custard may be made stiff enough to be set in a mould, and turned out before serving. Time, a quarter of an hour to boU; about two hours to express the juice. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Currant Custard (another way).—Take a breakfast-cupful of red currant-juice, ex- pressed as in the last recipe. Pour it when hot upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir it tUl the sugar is dissolved. Put it into a saucepan, and add to it very gradually the weli- beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir it over a moderate fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it out and continue to stir till nearly cool, when a cupful of cream must be added. Serve in custard glasses. Time to simmer, a few minutes. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for six or eight glasses, each one three-parts full. Currant Dumpling.—Make a light suet crust {see Crust, Suet). Before moistening it mix half a potmd of dried currants with every pound of fiour. Add milk to make a light batter, and boil either in one large dumpling tied in a floured cloth, or in half a dozen without cloths. In the latter case the dumplings should be dropped into boiling water, and be looked after at first to see that they do not stick to the pan. Serve with lemon-juice and sugar. Time to boU, one hour and a half with a clotl^ ; half an hour without. The dumplings wiU rise to the top when done enough. Probable cost, lOd., for half a dozen small dumplings. Currant Fool.—Strip some fresh, ripe red currants from the stalks, and stew them gently with three table-spoonfuls of sugar to every pint of fruit. Press them through a sieve, and when nearly cold mix with them finely-grated bread-crumbs and cream or new mUk. Time to stew the currants, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or six persons. Currant Fritters.—Whisk three eggs thoroughly, and mix with them gradually six table-Bpoonfuls of fine flour and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture until quite smooth, then advi