MAC MAC ( 3117 ) whites of the eggs. Sorve hot from the oven before the egg can fall. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. 7d. Sufficient for a small dish. Macaroons {see Almond Cakes or Maca- roons) . Macaroons, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa-nut Macaroons). Macaroons, Italian {see Italian Maca- roons) . Macaroons, Pistachio {see Pistachio Macaroons). jdace^—This is one of the pleasantest and most used of spices. It is the outer covering of the nutmeg. JMace is dried pre\'iou8 to its being packed tight in bags. Its general qualities are the same as those of nutmeg ; it has an agree- able aromatic odour, and a hot biting taste. When fresh, mace is blood-red, and somewhat fleshy. It is prepared for the market by drjong it in the sun for some days, and flattening it. The outer covering of a species of niyristica, different from the true nutmeg, but coarse and very inferior, is sometimes sold as mace. When pai-taken of to excess, mace produces determina- of blood to the head, and occasions intellectual distm-bance. Mackerel.—The mackerel is one of the most beautiful of fish. It sometimes attains to the length of twenty inches, but usually is about fourteen or sixteen inches long, and about two pounds in weight. Mackerel is in great demand as an article of food, but to be partaken of in perfection it should be perfectly fresh. No fish spoils more rapidly. The common idea respect- ing mackerel is, that they are in best condition when fullest of roe; at that time, however, though not impoverished, they have little flavour. It is in the early part of the "season, when the roe is not yet fuU grown, that mackerel have mofi flavour. In France, and some other parts of Europe, mackerel are often salted. Mackerel (a la Poulette). — Cut large mackerel into three pieces, after being emptied, cleansed, and drained. If there be roes, dry and dredge them, as well as the fish, with flour. Make a seasoning of finely-chopped MACKEREL. onion, par.sley, pepper, and salt, scalding the parsley and onions first. Lay the pieces of fish, but not the heads or tails, into a stewpan ; sprinkle the seasoning equally over each layer, add an ounce of butter in bits, and a small cup of veal broth, but only enough to prevent the fish eticking to the bottom of the stewpan. Close the lid of the stewpan tightly until the mackerel is done, which will be in about half an horn-. Some of the seasoning should be kept for the top, and some bits of butter. Phice the fish on a dish, keep it wai-m before the fire, until the sauce is thickened. Make it boil up again, and add more pepiier or salt, if required. Have ready- beaten two yolks of eggs, remove the sauce from the fire, and stii- them with half a table- spoonful of vinegar into it. When smooth and thick, pour it over the fish. Mackerel, Baked. —Get quite fresh mackerel; they may be known by their almost silvery brightness. If stale, they are limp in body, and red and dull-looking about the eyea and head. No fish can be more unwholesome when stale, and mackerel keep worse than any other fish. Dying almost immediately after being taken fiom theii- native element, they should be used as soon as possible. They are good cooked in many ways. When baked, they should be cleaned, and the roes taken out, to be filled with a forcemeat delicately prepared, as fol- lows :—Put into a basin four ounces of bread- criimbs, two ounces of butter broken into bits, half a tea-spoonful of savoury herbs, a little chopped parsley, an anchovy boned and pounded, pepper, salt, and cayenne, and an egg to cement. Onion, in very small quantity, and «hi'ed very fine, may be added if the flavour be liked. Fill the fish with the forcemeat, lay them neatly into a dish, with small bits of butter, pepper, and Siilt. Bake half an hoiu" in a moderate oven, serve with maitre d'hotel sauce or plain melted butter. The roes should be placed in . the baking-dish with the fish. Probable cost, 28. Four fish sufficient for six persons. Mackerel, Baked (another way).—A quick and simple way of baking mackerel:—Put four or six middle-sized fish, after being washed and well diied, into a baking-dish, back down- wards, and rounded so as to make the heads and tails meet; put the roes with them, and some flour and butter blended together in the pro- portion of half an ounce of butter and half a tea- spoonful of flour to each fish. Add a little salt and cayenne, a small glassful of pci-t or sherry, and enough chilli vinegar to flavour. Bake with some bits of butter over the top, and a buttered paper pressed tightly down without crushing the fish. It is economical to remove the heads and a little of the tails of the fish before baking. Mackerel, Boiled. — Wash and clean carefuUy, after remoA'ing the roes. The mac- kerel is in its greatest perfection when there is little roe. Lay the fish and roes separately into cold water, and to a gallon of water add from three to four ounces of siilt and two table- spoonfuls of white vinegar; when at boiling oint, skim, and simmer only until done. Inch depends on the size of the fish, liemove at once when done, or from their gi-eat delicacy of skin they will crack if kej^t in the water. The usual tost, when the eyes start and the tail splits, should be attended to. Serve on a napkin with the roe, and fennel or anchovy sauce in a tureen. Time, about ten minutes after the water boila. Probable cost, 3d. to 4d. I each.