( 481 ) OHA ORA is cool cork closely. Probable cost, la. per pint. Orange Tart or Tartlets—Take two Sevillo oranges and double their weight in re- fined sugar. Boil the thin rinds in a little water until tender, then pound thorn in a mortar, and mix with them the pulp of the frxiit which has been freed from the pips and juice, the sugar, and half an ounce of fresh butter. Line the edges of a tart-dish with good puff-paste, put in the orange mixture, cover the dish with crust, fasten the edges se- curely, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, line some patty-pans with puff-pastry, half fiU them with the onuige mixture, lay narrow strips of pastry over them as an ornament, and bake as before. Time to bake the tart, three-quarters of an hour; the tartlets, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange-water Ice.—Rub the rind of two oranges with three or four lumps of sugar until the yellow part is taken off, and dissolve the lumps in a little warm syrup; if the rind is rubbed too hard the ice will be bitter. Strain the juice of six oranges and a lemon, stir into it, with half a pint of water, a pint of clarified sugar and the flavoui'ed syrup. Mix thoroughly. Strain and freeze in the usual way. Probable cost. Is. Suflicient for a quart of ice. Orange Wine.—Orange wine should be made in March. Boil twenty-eight pounds of loaf sugar with eight gallons of water, and the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of four eggs. Remove the scum as it rises, let the liquid cool, then add the juice of ninety Seville oranges, and mix thoroughly. Strain the liquid, ferment it with half a pound of yeast on a toast, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Put it into the 'cask, and when fermentation ceases, which will be when it gives up hissing, bung the cask up closely. The wine may be racked in three months, and bottled in twelve. If it is desired to add the flavour of the orange- peel to this wine, though it will be more gener- ally agreeable without, infuse the rinds of fifty of the oranges in two gallons of the clarified sugar for four days, then strain the liquid, and add it to the rest. If it is considered necessary to have a little brandy in the wine, a quart may be put into the cask with the liquid, and an- other quart added when the wine is racked off. Time, half an hour to boil the sugar. Probable cost, 28. 2d. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for ten gallons. Orange Wine (an easy way of making). —In making orange wine it may be calculated that ton Seville oranges and three pounds of loaf sugar are required for every gallon of wine. If, therefore, it is wished to make nine gallons of wine, put the strained juice of ninety Seville oranges and twenty-seven pounds of loaf sugar mto a cask which is perfectly sweet and dry Put the pulp from which the juice has been squeezed mto a large pan, and pour over it a gallon and a half of water let it stand for twenty-four hours, then strain it into the cask, if the flavour of the orange-rind is desired though the wine will be more generally agree- Q able without it, peel half the oranges, and put the thin rinds into another pan; then pour half the quantity of water which was on the pulp over the skins, and lot them also infuse twenty- four hours, when strain the liquid into the cask. Pour a gallon and a half of water again over the pulp and rinds, let the water stand for a day, then add it to the rest; and repeat this performance imtil the cask is quite full, which will be in about a week. Stir the contents daily. Three days after the cask is full, bung it up closely, and bottle the wine in nine months. It may be used after it has been bottled three months. Time, ten days to make the wine. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. per gallon. Sufficient for a nine- gallon cask. Orangeade.—Make a syrup by boiling six oxmces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Pour it over the thin yellow rinds of two small oranges, and let them infuse for two or three hours. Strain the juice of six oranges into a glass jug. Add the flavoured sjrrup, first passing it through a jelly- bag, and a pint and a half of cold water. Drink the orangeade cold. A glassful of calf 's-f oot stock is an improvement. Time, two or three hours to infuse the rinds. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for two pints and a half. Orangeade (at all seasons).—Pour a pint of brandy, or rectified spirits of wine, over the thin rind and strained juice of two oranges. Cover the infusion closely, and leave in a warm place for six weeks, shaking it every day. At the end of that time filter it through muslin, and put it into small bottles. Cork these closely, and store them until wanted. When orangeade is required, it is only necessary to dissolve a small limip of sugar in haK a pint of spring water, and add a dessert-spoonful of the orange-flavoured spirit. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for a pint of orangeade. Oranges and Apples, Compote of.— Take half a dozen fine sweet apples and three oranges. Rub the skins well with a soft cloth, and cut them across in very thin round slices. Arrange the pieces alternately in a circle in a glass dish, with one piece half over the other, and pour over them a syrup made according to the directions given in a succeeding recipe {see Oranges, Compote of). Serve when cold. Time, five or ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Oranges and Apples, Florentine of {see Florentine of Oranges and Apples). Oranges, Coloured, for Dessert.— Crush three or four ounces of doubly-refined sugar to powder. Pour over it a few drops of prepared cochineal, and move the sugar about with the fingers until it is all equally coloured, then put the dish which contains it on the fender until it is quite dry. Peel half a dozen ripe oranges, free them entirely from the thick white skin and thready parts, but bo very careful not to pierce the fruit itself. RoU the oranges in the coloured sugar, arrange them neatly on a dish, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. Time, a quarter of an hour to dry the sugar. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for six persons.