( 367 ) LEE LAR gravv to table in a tureen. Time, about ten uiinutes to roast. Probable cost, 9(1. Suffi- cii-'ut for two persons. Larks, Stewed.—Pick and clean a dozen larks; opeu tlieui, and fry tliem-vvitb two ounces of fat bacon, cut into small pieces, until tbey are lightly browned; di-edgo a little Horn- over them, and add half a pottle of mushrooms cut into slices, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and as much salt as is requu-ed ; this will be regulated by the condition of the bacon. Pour over them a\\-iue-glassf ul of stock and another of sheiTy, and sinmicr gently for a quarter of an liour. Add a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, boil for a minute, and serve on a hot dish. Gar- nish with toasted sippets. Probable dost,Is. 6d. l^er dozen. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Larks Stewed, (a German recipe).—Pick and clean a dozen larks; oj)en and flatten them, and season them slightly with a httle salt and pepper; -put them into a stewpan Avith three oimces of claiifiod butter and half a dozen juniper-berries, and let them remain until they are lightly browned. Pour over them three table-spoonfuls of stock or water, simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve veiy hot. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four persons. Laver, To Dress.—Laver is a plant which gTows upon rocks near the sea-shore, and is valued on account of its anti-scorbutic qualities. It is generally boiled down to a jelly as soon as it is found, then potted, and sent to distant places for use. To dress it, ijut a pound into a bright stewpan with tliree oimces of fresh butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon or a Seville orange, and stir it with a silver fork until quite hot. Serve it as hot as possible, either over a lamp or a hot-water dish. Th^ taste for laver is an acquired one. Instead of the butter a Httle gravy may be i)ut into the pan, but lemon-juice should never be omitted. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Leamington Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a quarter of a pound of fine flour and a quarter of a pound of sugar, which has been well rubbed upon the rind of a lemon, and then powdered ; add a tiny pinch of salt, a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, whisked to a firm froth. Butter three round pudding-moulds of different sizes, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the puddings one on the top of the other, the largest at the bottom, and spread a layer of good jam between each. Wine-sauce should be sent to table with this pudding. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Leche Crema.—Put six ounces of ratafia cakes at the bottom of a shallow dish. Mix the well-beaten yolks of three and the white of one egg with a pint and a half of milk and two or three drops of ratafia flavouring; add four tiblo-spoonfuls of flour and two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutc), until the flour is dissolved and the milk bci^ns to thicken. Let it cool, then place it over the cakes very gently, or they will rise to the top. Serve cold. Strew a few hundreds and thousands over the top, or, if preferred, ratafias, about an inch aj^art. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leeks.—This, the Allium Forrum, is a plant highly valued for culinarj'- purposes. Its flavour is much milder than that of the onion, or any other species of Allium. In Wales, the leek has long been a special favourite. It is or- dinarily sown in sj)ring, and is ready for use in the following winter. Attention has long been given to its growth, and some of the varieties exhibit in a remarkable degree the effects of cultivation in increased size and delicacy. Leeks and Potato Soup, Maigre.— Prepare and fry the leeks as in the recipe for Leek Soup (which see). Season them with a tea-spoonful of pepper and half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, and pour over them three pints of boiling water. Let them simmer for haK an hour. Then put with them four large mealy potatoes, peeled and cut into sHces. Boil until. the potatoes are sufficiently soft to crush easily. Press the whole through a sieve, make the soup hot, add a pint of boiling-milk or cream, and serve. Leeks, Boiling of.—Leeks are generally used in soups, &c. If served alone, take them when \ery young, trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into six-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, put them into boiling water, with a dessei-t- spoonf ul of salt and a table-spoonfivl of vinegar, and let them boil until quite tender. Drain them, and serve Kke asparagus, on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over them. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. per bundle. Sufficient for five or six persons. Leeks, Plammish.—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour; add half a tea-spoonftd of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and three-quarters of a pint of water. Mix thoroughly. Divide this pastry into four parts, and roll these out into rounds about six inches in diameter. Have ready a dozen leeks, pre- pared as follows:—Wash them in two or three waters, trim oft' the root and the outei* leaves, strew a table-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and half a gi-ated nutmeg over them, and pour over them half a pint of cream. Let them soak for half an hour. Put the rounds of pastry on a baking-dish; fill each one with the- leeks, draw up the sides to the centre, fasten them securely together, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 28. 3d, Sufficient for half a dozen persons.