EGG EGG ( 202 ) Ib good here. Cover the bottom of a box or barrel with suit, and lay in as many oggs as it will take without touching each other. Throw in salt, finely powdered, enough to lill up the spaces between the eggs, and to make another layer or cover. Continue to place oggs and salt alternately, and let the top bo at least an inch deep of salt; press the salt down firmly, that no air shall enter to the eggs, and cover with a cloth and a tight-fitting lid. Store in a dry, cool place. Eggs, Puree of.—Boil seven eggs hard; take on the whites, chop them very small and put them aside. Pound the yolks in a moi-tar; add to them rather less than two ounces of good fresh butter, a little chopped parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Bind with the beaten yolks of three uncooked eggs, and pass the mixture thi-ough a colander into the middle of a dish. Put the minced whites into a stew- pan with half a pint of gravy, and stir till thickish, then pour it round the yolks, and garnish with sippets of bread, which should be brushed over with egg. Brown slightly, either in a Dutch oven or before the fire, and serve hot. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Suffi- cient for three persons. Eggs, Ragout of.—Boil twelve eggs hard, and -with a small knife carefully divide the whites lengthways into halves, taking care to keep the yolks whole and the whites unbroken. Pla.ce the yolks and whites in nice order in a dish, the hollow parts of the whites uppermost, and fill them as high as possible with fried bread-crumbs. Now make a sauce as follows : Boil half an ounce of truffles and morels in three or four table-spoonfuls of water, and chop them very fine with a quarter of a pint of pickled mushrooms. Mince some parsley, boil it in the water saved from the truffles, add three more table-spoonfuls of water, a gDI of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, a Uttle grated nutmeg and mace, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; boij. all together, and throw the mixture over the eggs. Eggs, Savoury.—Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, first rubbing the bottom of it with a clove of garlic. When the butter has become very hot, stir in five eggs previously well beaten, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a grain of cayenne; continue to stir quickly till done, and send to table on a hot dish. Time, about four minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufflcient for two persons. Eggs, Scrambled (American).—This dish differs very little in its mode of preparation from our "mumbled" or "jumbled" eggs. When the pan has been well oiled with good butter, put into it as many eggs as it wiU hold separately, that each yolk may be entire. When the whites have become slightly hard, stir from the bottom of the pan till done, adding a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. When done, the yolks should be separate from the whites although stirred together. Serve on hot buttered toast with anchovy sauce, potted meat, cheese, or fish spread over it first. The eggs should be of the consistency of butter. Kme, five minutes. Eggs, Sootoll.—Prepare a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, grated ham, an anchovy pounded, and mixed spices. Koll five liard-boiled eggs, freed from their shells, first into beaten egg,' and then into the forcemeat. Put some good dripping or krd into a frying-pan, and brown tlie eggs slightly in it, turning them round that all sides may lie done alike. Serve with good ricli gravy in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Probable cost, 8d. or lOd. ^ Eggs, Spun (Qiufs en Filagramme).— This preparation is used principally as a gar- nish for other sweet dishes. Prepare a syrup of iugar, white wine, and water, and l»eat up eight eggs with a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot. Boil tlie syrup in a large stewpan, and when it is quite hot, force the mixture of egg and arrow- root through a colander into the boiling syrup. It will harden immediately, and must be taken up, drained for a little time, and then piled on a dish. If eaten hot, serve at once. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Eggs, Steamed.—Break half a dozen eggs into separate cups, and have ready a well-but- tered dish, into which each egg should be placed carefully. Cover the dish to prevent the heat from escaping, and set it over a pan of boil- ing water, first putting smaU bits of butter lightly over the top of the eggs. When they are set sufficiently, sprinkle them with a little salt, and serve with fried ham or sausages. Time, about four minutes to set. Eggs, Swan's (en Salade).—Cut the eggs, when boiled hard {see Eggs, Swan's, to Boil), in halves, pound the yolks with an ounce and a half of good fresh butter, and season with minced herbs or shallot, cayenne, and salt; add two tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and the same of chiK -sdnegar. FiU the white halves with this mixture, and set them in a bowl of prepared salad, or ornament a lobster or German salad with them. Eggs, Swan's, To Boil.—Put the eggs into quite boiling water and let them stay with- out boiling for twenty minutes. See that the water quite covers them, then boil slowly for ii. quarter of an hour. Let them rest in the water five minutes before removing them, and cover them up while cooling. Swan's eggs retain their heat a long time. They should not be cut until quite cold, and should then be divided into halves lengthwise. Eggs, Turkey's, To Dress.—Choose those of the young bird for cooking in the shell. They may be known by their pale, almost white colour. The larger ones are excellent for poaching, and to serve in the composition of any dishes where eggs are required. Time, six minutes to boil, four to poach. Eggs, Whisked.—A common veire whisk, as represented in the engraving, is the best for this purpose. Break the eggs to be whisked separately (the yolks from the whiles), and remove the speck from each one with a three- pronged fork before commencing to whisk. Beat the yolks till they are light, and the whites till no liquid remains in the bowl: they should be a strong solid froth. Experience, however,