( 125 ) CHE CHE melted butter may be substituted for the arrow- root, if preferred, and when fresh cherries are not in season, cherry jam may be used. Ihe sauce ought to be as thick as custard and the colour of the cherries. It is very mce for boiled or baked egg puddings. Tmie, about half an hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine. This quantity wiU suffice for a moderate-sized pudding. Cherry Soup, German.—In German bills of fare sweet soups are frequent, and are liked by some persons very much. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a sauce- pan, let it melt, then mix with it a table-spoon- ful of flour, and stir smoothly until it is lightly browned. Add gradually two pints of water, a pound of black cherries, picked and washed, and a few cloves. Let these boil until the fruit is quite tender, then press the whole through a sieve. After straining, add a little port, half a tea-spoonful of the kernels blanched and bruised, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a few whole cherries. Let the soup boil again until the cherries are tender, and pour aU into a tureen over toasted sippets, sponge-cakes, or macaroons. Time, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, cherries, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Cherry Tart.—Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with a good short crust. Fill it with cherries, picked and washed, put a cup or small jeUy pot in the middle of the dish, strew a little sugar over, and a few red currants if they can be got, as they wiU considerably improve the flavour of the tart. Cover the dish with a crust, and ornament the edges. Brush the tart all over with cold water, and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost of a medium- sized tart, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cherry-water Ice.—Boil a pound of sugar with a pint and a half of water, remove the scum as it rises; when it is clear, pour it into a large jug containing one pound of Kentish cherries bruised, a few of the kernels, blanched, and pounded in a mortar, the juice of two lemons, and a glass of noyeau. Let these soak: strain, add a few drops of cochineal, and freeze. Imbed in the ice till wanted. Probable cost, 9d. for this quantity, exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for one quart of ice. Cherry-water Ice (another way).—Pick the stalks from one pound of ripe cherries, and crush them in a mortar to make the juice flow, adding a pint of clarified sugar and half a pint of water. Flavour with noyeau or vanilla, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons; add a few drops of cochineal if required, strain the liquid, and freeze. The kernels should be pounded with the fruit. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for one quart of ice. CherviL—Chervil is fit for drying in May, June, and July. Its leaves are tender and delicious, combining the flavoiu- of parsley and fennel, though more aromatic than either. It may be used in salads, and for sauces, and also bo prepared in the same way as parsley. It must not be forgotten that the root is poisonous. Cheshire Cream.—Put the thin rind of a small lemon into a breakfast-cupful of thick cream. Let it remain for an hour or more, then take it out, and add a small tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a glass of sherry. Whisk these thoroughly, and place the froth, as it is made, on a sieve to drain, and let it remain five or six hours. When ready to serve, put it on a glass dish, with a border of macaroons or cocoa-nut bis- cuits round it. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for a small supper- dish. Chester Buns.—Rub two ounces of butter into one poimd of fine floar, add a pinch of salt and one table-spoonful of sugar. Stir into these an egg, a table-spoonful of yeast, and a breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk. Knead well, and put the bowl which contains the dough before the fire to rise, covering it with a cloth. When it has sufficiently risen, divide it into six or eight parts, shape into rounds, place them on a buttered tin, and let them rise five minutes more, then bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, for this quantity, 6d. Sufficient for six or eight buns. Chester Pudding.—Whisk the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar, half a dozen sweet and half a dozen bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, the finely-minced rind and juice of half a lemon, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Stir these over a moderate fire for a few minutes, then pour the mixture into a small buttered pie-dish lined with good pufi paste. Put it into the oven, and, while it is baking, whisk the unused whites of the eggs to a firm froth. When the pudding is very nearly ready, cover it with the froth, sift sugar thickly over it, and stiffen it a few minutes in the oven. Time to bake, twentj' minutes; five minutes to set the white of egg. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one person. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Boast Fowl.—Iloast and peel a dozen large chest- nuts ; boil them for about twenty minutes in some strong veal gravy, drain, and, when cold, put them into a mortar, blanch and mince them, with the liver of the fowl, a tea-spoonful of grated ham, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of chopped onions, a small pinch of grated lemon-rind, three grains of cayenne, two table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and the yolks of two eggs. Pound the dry ingredients in a mortar, and moisten them with the butter and eggs. This forcemeat is excellent for a large fowl. Time to prepare, about twenty minutes. Probable cost of chestnuts, 2d. or 3d. per pint. This quantity wiU serve for one large fowl. Chestnut Pudding.—Take some chest- nuts, and make a little incision in the skin of each one, throw them into boiling water, and let them remain until tender. Remove the shells and skins, dry them in the oven, and afterwards pound thorn to powder. IMix half a pound of this powder vntli six ounces of butter . beaten to a cream, two table-spoonfuls of sittecl