( 473 ) ORA 03A and store them in a tin box until wanted for garnisliing sweet dishes. Cut the oranges into rounds a quai-tcr of an inch thick, remove the pulp without breaking the ring, and leave a narrow rim of white on the yellow part. Tlirow these rings into salt and water, leave them until the following day, and then boil them in fresh water until they are tender. Lift them carefully out, drain on an inverted sieve, and when cool dip them into brandy. Make a syrup with half a pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of the water in which the rings were boiled to each half a dozen oranges. Boil it imtil clear; dip the rings into it three times, and again drain them. Heat the syrup twice a day, and dip the rings into it whilst it is hot, but not boning, and continue this until they are candied. Store in tin boxes, arranging the rings in single layers between sheets of writing- paper. They will keep any length of time in a cool dry place. The sugar which remains is excellent for flavouring. Time, half an hour to boil them in fresh water; to be dipped in hot sjTup twice a day until they are candied. Orange and Lemon Juice for Colds (Invalid Cookery).—Orange or lemon-juice, strained and boiled with an equal weight of loaf sugar, and then bottled and corked closely, will prove an agreeable and valuable addition to gruel and other warm drinks which are required for invalids. Time, fifteen minutes to boil. Sufficient, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice to half a pint of gruel. Orange-Apple Jelly. — In preparing apple jeUy a pleasing variety may be made as follows :—Boil the apple-juice and the sugar in the usual way for about ten minutes, and then throw in with them some slices of orange a quarter of an inch thick. The peel may be left on, but the pips should be carefully re- moved. Let all cook together, and when the apple jelly is potted, put two nr three slices of orange into each jar. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to boil the jelly. Sufficient, one sliced orange for a pint of apple jelly. Orange Biscuits.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Rub the rinds of two Seville oranges with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, imtil the yellow part is all taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with the butter; add a small pinch of salt, four ounces of dried flour, the weU-beaten yolks of four eggs, two ounces of candied orange-peel, cut into thin shreds, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Pour the mixture into small buttered moulds, sift pow- dered sugar over the biscuits, and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Orange Biscuits (another way)—To be used as a Stomachic.—Boil the rinds of SeviUo oranges in two or three waters, until they are quite tender and most of the bitterness is gone. Drain well, weigh them, mince finely, and pound them in a mortar with an equal weight of powdered sugar; spread the pavSte out thinly on a dish, and place it in the Bun, or in some warm place, to dry. When the upper part is stiff, stamp the mixture out into small shapes, turn these carefully over, and dry the under side. These biscuits should be stored between layers of paper in a tin box. Time, two hours to boil the rinds. Probable cost, oranges, Id. each. Orange Brandy.—Take the thin rinds of six Seville oranges. ■ Put into a stone jar, and pour over them half a pint of the strained juice of the oranges and two quarts of French, brandy. Let them remain for three days, thea add a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar-— broken, not powdered—and stir the liquid until the sugar is dissolved; let it stand imtil the next (ky, strain through filtering paper until quite clear, pour it into bottles, and cork securely ; the longer orange brandy is kept the better it is. This liquem- should be made in March. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five pints of oranga brandy. Orange Brandy (another way).—Put half a dozen whole Seville oranges into a jar, pour over them four pints of French brandy, and let them infuse for twenty-eight days. Filter the liquid until it is quite clear, then put with it ten ounces of loaf sugar in lumps, and stir two or three times a day until the sugar ia dissolved; strain again, put the liquid into bottles, and cork securely. This liqueur wUl improve with keeping. Probable cost, lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufficient for two quarta of orange brandy. Orange Butter.—Blanch one ounce of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. IVIix with them the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of pounded and sifted sugar, two ounces of fresh butter, and a spoonful or two of orange-flower water. Rub the butter through a colander, and serve it with sweet or plain biscuits. Time, ten minutes to boU the eggs. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a pound of biscuits. Orange Cake.—Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and pound them ia a mortar with a little white of egg; nux with them two ounces of powdered sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and the yolks of two hard-boiled ones wMch have been made smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Slice four ounces of fresh butter into six ounces of flour, add the almond mixture and two or three spoonfuls of milk, enough to make a firm paste. Roll this out in a round form, about a quarter of an inch thick, and ornament the edge with a thick twist, made of the trimmings of the pastry. Bake on buttered paper in a moderate oven imtil the cake is lightly browned, and when nearly cool spread upon it a mixture made as follows:— Beat thoroughly the yolks of ioui eggs and the white of one. Rub two ounces of loaf sugar upon the yellow rind of two oranges; crush the sugar to powder, and mix it with the eggs. ^ Add the strained juice of the oranges, and stir the mixture over the fire until it begins to thicken. "When it is nearly cool, add two tea-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Before serving, an orange peeled and quartered may be laid upon the cake in the form of a star. This cake