CCS CUS ( 177 ) the grains sepai-ato. Leave the saucepan un- covered. Biing the water slowly to a boil. Shake the pau occasionally to prevent burning, but do not stir the rice at all. When it has simmered gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes it wlU most Hkely be tender. Patna rice will not require so long. Drain it in a co- lander, and let it dry gently before the fire. iSer^'e it roimd the curry. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Sufficient, half a pound of rice for a moderate-sized dish of curry. Custard.—It should be remembered that custard must not be allowed to boU after the eggs are added to the milk. If it does it will curdle, and be lumpy. The best way is to put it into a jug, and place this jug in a large saucepan of cold water, which must be put on the fire until the custard thickens, stining it all the time. The yolks only of the eggs are required for custard. The whites may be set aside and used for other purposes. Custard (a la Eeine).—Sweeten, flavour, and boU a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, add a tiny pinch of salt, and stir in the well- beaten yolks of six eggs. Pour the mixture into a jug, and set the jug in a saucepan of cold water. Stir it one way until it thickens. Just before serving flavour it with four table- spoonfuls of maraschino and sweeten it to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to thicken. Pro- bable cost, 2s., exclusive of the maraschino. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of custard. Custard Baked in a Crust.—Line a pie-dish with a good crust, and put it in the oven until it is three-pai-ts cooked. Make a custard as in the last recipe, using milk in- stead of cream, but do not put quite so large a proportion of milk, to insure its being quite stiff. Bake it gently, and when the custard is set it is done enough. Keep it in a cool place. Turn out before serving. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is., for a moderate- sized dish, large enough for four or five persons. Custard, Boiled.—Simmer in a well- 3ned saucepan a pint each of milk and cream with a laurel-leaf, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Straia the liquid for half an hour, and put it on again with three ounces of sugar Beat well the yolks of six eggs, and add them ^aduaUy to the milk, stirring it carefully and steadily until it thickens. It must not boil, or It will curdle Pour it into a large jug, and add a glass of brandy, still stirring it imtil it has cooled a Httle. FiU cups and serve. Pro- bable cost, 28. 4d., without brandy. T.,-.?^'^**^^?'^'l^?.^ (cheap).-Simmer three pints of milk for half an hour in a weU-Hned saucepan with lemon or cinnamon to flavour the hquid Strain it and add a table-spoonful of pound nee or arrowroot smoothly mixed in half a wine-glassful of cold milk. Beat un the yolks of three eggs and add them, with three ounces of sugar, to the rest. Stir the custard gently and steadily tiU it thickens, but do not boU It or it wiU curdle. This is a good custard for puddings. Probable cost, lid If served m cups, sufficient for twelve. Custard Cherry .-Make a rich custard (ss. Custard a la Reine). Put six or eight macaroons at the bottom of a glass dish, and over these lay a cupful of cherries which have been used for making cherry-brandy, with their juice. When the macaroons have ab- sorbed the juice, pour the custard over them, and garnish the dish with macaroons and cherries. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the cherry-brandy. Suffi- cient for a good-sized dish. Custard, Common.—Put a pint of milk into a clean saucepan, with a piece of thin lemon-rind or half an inch of stick cinnamon. Let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, till it is pleasantly flavoured. Mix a tea- spoonful of arrowroot, ground rice, or flour very smoothly with three table-spoonfuls of cold milk. Add the yolk of an egg well beaten, and strain the hot milk upon them. Place it on the fire for a few minutes to thicken, stirring it aU the time. A dessert-spoonful of brandy is an improvement. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for a pint of custard. Custard, Excellent.—Put a pint of new milk, and half a pint of good cream into a saucepan, with a bay-leaf, the thin rind of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Simmer the liquid gently for twenty minutes. Then strain it, and add to it gradually tha well-beaten yolks of five eggs. Pour the mixture from one jug to another for a minute or two. Then place it in one of the jugs in a saucepan of wj rm water. Put this on the fire, and stir the custard until it thickens. Pour it out ; add a wine-glassful of brandy, and con- tinue stirring until the custard is cold. Serve in glasses, and put a ratafia on the top of each custard. Time, altogether, thiee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for nearly a quart of custard. Custard, Lemon, without Milk or Cream.—Put three ounces of loaf sugar, tha thin rind and strained juice of two lemons, and a pint of hot water into a basin. Let it stand for three-quarters of an hour, or until the fiavour of the lemon-rind is extracted. Thoroughly beat the yolks of four eggs. Mix them with the water, first straining it, and put it on the fire to thicken for ten minutes. It must not boil. Serve in custard-glasses. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a pint of custard. Custard Marrow.—The custard marrow is a species of vegetable marrow, short and round, considered by many superior to ordinary marrows for delicacy of flavour. It may be boiled in the usual way or prepared as follows: Cut the marrow into slices about an inch in thickness, and score them on one side about half through. Cut a slice of fat bacon ijito dice, and put it into a stewpan with a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped mushrooms, the same of minced parsley, a small onion cut into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. Fry these for a few minutes. Turn them on a hot dish. Lay on them the sliced marrow, the scored sides downwards, and pour over them a little olive-oil. Put the dish into a hot oven, and when the marrow is sufficiently baked serve it as hot as possible. Time, about haU an hour to bake. Probable cost, Id. each- Allow one for each person.