(429) MOB MUL lemon-rind and jxiice. Put in the morels, and serve hot. Morels, Stewed.—Morels are seldom served at English tables, but when stewed fresh have a rich flavour, highly appreciated by connoisseurs; stew them in a little good gravy, powdered mace, pepper, Siilt, and a glassful of white wine for an hour. If large cut them into foiu-; thicken the gi-avy with butter and flour, and add lemon-juice to taste; serve hot. Moselle Cup.—To a bottle of moselle in a jug pour a glassful of sherry, or pale brandy, and add four or five thin slices of pine-apple, the peel of half a lemon, cut very thin, and some lumps of ice, and sweeten to taste. A bottle of iced soda or seltzer-water must be added before using. Mother Eve's Pudding.—Take of sUced apple, well-washed currants, grated bread, and finely-shred suet, each twelve ounces, mix them in a bowl, with half the rind of a lemon, minced, and moisten with four well- beaten eggs. Boil in a buttered mould, and serve with a sweet sauce, as follows :—Sweeten a quarter of a pint of melted butter, add nutmeg, a large glassful of sheiry, and part of the juice of a lemon. Time, three hours to boil. Probable cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mother's Apple Pudding {see Apple Pudding, Mother's). Moulds, To Use.—Dip them into cold water before filling them with either jelly or cream. When about to turn out the contents, dip them quickly into hot water, ana wipe dry. Muffins.—Make a dough of rather soft consistency with warm milk, allovsdng to everj' quart of milk an ounce and a half of German yeast, which should be first mixed with the milk; add the beaten whites of two eggs, and cover the dough closely before the fire to rise. When ready, drop the quantity of dough required for one muffin upon a well-floured board, and form it into shape by turning it round with the hand, then slide it upon the hot plate. To make and bake muffins well is a difficult task, and as they are now to be obtained at any respectable baker's, there are, unless for families living far from town, very few home-made muffins. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient, four poimds of flour. Muffins (another way). — See Breakfast Muffins. Muffins, American.—Warm a pint of new milk, add to a table-spoonful of fresh yeast, a pinch of salt, the white of two eggs, frothed, and a little lump of saleratus, the size of a pea, dissolved in warm water. Put these ingredients into a bowl, and add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Put it in a warm place to rise for two or three hours, being careful to cover the bowl with a cloth. Take out, on the end of a spoon, enough dough for one muffin at a time, drop it on a floured board, and shake it until it is the proper form. Let the muffins rise again, then place care- fully on a hot plate or stove, previously oiled; when one ride is slightly browned, turn on the other. When done, divide the edge of the muffin all round with the thumb and finger; toast it gently first, on one side, then on the other; tear it open, and place two or three lumps of butter between, and cut into quarters. Pile three or four on a dish, and send hot to table. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, about Id. each. One will be sufficient for each person. Muffins and Crumpets^ Pudding of {see Crumpet and Muffin Pudding). Muffins, Indian {see Indian Muffins). Muffins, Potato {see Potato Muffins). Muffins, Pudding of.—Beat six eggs tor ten minutes, lay three muffins and two crumpets into a bowl, and pour over them three breakf ast- cupfuls of boiling milk, flavoured with lemon- peel, and sweetened with loaf sugar. Mix when cold, and add a glassful of brandy, twc ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped small, and the beaten eggs; half a pound of stoned muscatels, or dried cherries, may be added, and the whole should be well stirred before being put into the buttered basin for boiling, or into a dish lined with puff paste, if the pudding is preferred baked. Time, one hour to bake or boU. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of brandy. Muffins, Toasted.—To toast muffins slit them round the edge to the depth of an inch or more, but keep them attached in the centre while toasting. Pull open, and butter fi'eely. Lay them on a very hot plate, and serve cut across. Mulberry.—The fruit of the mulberry is brought to the dessert, and recommends itself by its highly aromatic flavour and abundant subacid juice. It is wholesome, cooling, and rather laxative; like the strawberrj^ it doe^ not undergo the acetous fermentation, and therefore may safely be partaken of by gouty and rheumatic persons. The most forward THE MrrLBEBRY. mulberries attain maturity about the end of August, and there is a succession of ripening fruit on the same tree for about a month or six weeks. The ripening berries rapidly change from a reddish to a black colour, and should be gathered accordingly for immediate use. This delicate fruit will not keep good off the tree for above a day or two. Mulberry Juice.—The chief use of the fruit of the black mulberry is for the dessert; l)ut from its cooling and laxative properties its juice, diluted with water, is sometimes used as a beverage in fevers. It is also employed in the form of syrup for medicinal purposes, chiefly to colour other fluid medicines. The juice is also