CHO CHI ( 134 } water. Stii- constantly until the mixture is quite hot, thou cover the Hiiucopau closely, uud «iuuuor it viTy gciutly for two houi-s. Servo it in a liot dish, with a herder of rice roimd it. A cupful of chopped muslu-ooma will he an iiiiprovement. Prohuhle cost, 3b. Sufficient for half a do/eu persons. Ching-Ching (an American drink).— Put tlii'oe oimces of poppciTnint, three or four ■drops of the csscuco of cloves, a sliced oranye, a dossert-spoouful of sifted loaf sugar, and two tahle-spooufuls of pounded ice into a largo tumbler. Mix with it a quaiior of a pint of rum, stir the mixture for a minute or two, and th'ink it through a straw. Prohahle cost, Gd., ■ exclusive of tho rum. Sufficient for a Largo tumblerful. Chipolata Garnish.—Take equal quan- tities ot carrots, tuvuips, chestnuts, mushrooms, pieces of bacon, and small sausages, as many as may be requii-cd for the dish they are to gar- nish. Shape all these ingredients into neat pieces of a small size. Roast and peel the chestnuts, and boU the other ingi-edients sepa- rately. When they are ready drain them and put them into a saucepan, cover them with good brown sauce, nicely seasoned, and add a glass of sherry; let them boil, then use the ragout for garnishing dishes of game, poultry, and cutlets. The carrots and turnips in this ragout may be shaped like peas or dice, or, if liked, they may be peeled in ribbons, then cut into t.hin shreds. Chives, Butter.—Boil half a pound of butter, remove the scum as it rises, and let it boil for a few minutes. Squeeze into it the juice of a large lemon, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced chives. A small onion chopped, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley will do nearly as well. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient "for half a pound of butter. Chocolate. — Chocolate, when obtained .-genuine, is made from the berry of the cacao tvee, mixed with ^ little cinnamon, vanilla, and sugar. It is a most agreeable and nutritious -beverage. It is much used in Spain. That which is sold in England is too often a mixture of flour and treacle, with, a very small quantity of the real article mixed in it. Scrape as, much ■chocolate as may be requu-ed into equal quanti- ties of hot milk and water. Stir it until it is •diBSolved, then put it in the saucepan, and make it quite hot, stirring it all the time. It must not boil up, or it will be oily. Sweeten and serve. The quantity to be used depends on the strength wanted. Generally speaking, one ounce of -chocolate may be used for one pint of milk and •water. Wbere chocolate is regularly used, it is much better to have a proper chocolate mill, so 'that it may be served hot and frothy. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. per pound. Cheap chocolate should be avoided. Allow one ounce for ciich person. Chocolate Biscuits.—IMix a quarter of a pound of finely-grated chocolate with a ■quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugar, and moisten the mixture with sufficient beaten white of egg to make a softisli paste. Mould this into ■small biscuits with a tea-spoon, and place, these on a sheet of paper, leavuig a little diKtance between the biscuits. Bake them in a modeiute oven, and, when sufficiently cooked, turn the sheets over so that the bisciiits may rest on the table, and brush the paper imdemeath the biscuits with a httle water to loosen them. Tlie addition of six ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, wiU convert those into chocolate macaroons. Time to bake, twenty nunutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Chocolate Canellons.—Mix t%vo ounces of grated chocolate with four ounces of finely- sifted sugar and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and add the beaten white of an egg to make a jjaste. Take pieces about the size of a walnut, and loll them out very thinly, place them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven for ten or fifteen minutes. While they are warm, turn them over a ruler to shape them, and sUp them on a sieve to dry. Probable cost, 5d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a small dessert-dish. Chocolate Cream. — Grate one ounce of the best chocolate and two ounces of sugar into a pint of thick cream; boil it, stirring it all the time, until quite smooth, then add, when cool, the whites of four eggs beaten to a soHd froth. Half fill the glasses, and whip the remainder into a froth to put at the top. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s., allowing Is. 6d. per pint for the cream. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Chocolate Custard.—Pour half a cupful of boiling water over one ounce of the best choco- late finely grated, let it stand by the fire till it is dissolved; stir it gradually into a pint of milk or cream, and add two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Put the custard into a saucepan, and beat it to a froth until it thickens. It may be put into cups and baked in a good oven. It is more generally served as it is. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d., if made with milk. Suffi- cient for a pint and a half. Chocolate Drops.—Dissolve four ounces of the best French chocolate in a little boQing water, and add to it half a poimd of sifted sugar, stir the mixture on the fire till it is smooth and quite hot. Place it in drops about the size of a sixpence on sheets of writing paper, and leave them until cold. If it is wished, the drops may be shaken (while still soft) in a paper with some nonpareil comfits. They should be kept in layers between sheets of paper. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. Chocolate Ice Cream.—Dissolve half a : pound of the best French chocolate in a break- fast-cupful of boiling water, add a pint and a half of cream and half a pound of sugar boiled to a sjTup ; strain through silk and put into the ice pail. Freeze in the usual way. When frozen, add three gills of double cream, work till smooth, and close the pot till the ice is wanted. Chocolate Mill.—The chocolate mill is used to gi\-e tho fine frothy appeai-ance to tho chocolate which is generally so much hked. and which camaotbo so eflectually produced without it, though brisk stii-ring over the fire will go a