( 3G1 ) LAM LAM this dish that the meat is very gently simmered. If it is allowed to boil quickly it will be hard, dry, and impalatable. When gently simmered it is excellent. Probable cost, lOd. per poimd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Stewed, with. Mushrooms- Take the bones from a breast of lamb, season the meat with a little pepper and salt, and fry it in hot fat until it is lightly browTied on both sides. Take it up, drain it from the fat, and put it into a stewpan with three or four thin slices of fat bacon, and as much white stock as will barely cover it. Add a pound of button- mushrooms, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, five or six chives, a tea-spoonful of salt, and six peppercorns. Let the liquid boil up, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Take the lamb up, place it on a hot dish, squeeze the jviice of a lemon over it, and strain the sauce to serve with it, first taking out the mushrooms to place roimd the meat. If preferred, half a dozen black truffles cut into slices may be sub- stituted for the mushrooms. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb Stewed with Peas.—Take a breast or loin of lamb, weighing about two pounds. Cut it into neat chops, season them with a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and dredge a little flour over them. Put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, into a frying-pan. Let it dis- solve, then put in the chops, and let them re- main until lightly browned on both sides. Pour away the fat, add thi-ee-quarters of a pint of imseasoned boiling stock, a cos lettuce cut in long strips, a leaf of tarragon, two shallots finely minced, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated. Cover the pan closely, and simmer 'gently for a quarter of an houi-. Put a pint of green peas freshlj' shelled into the saucepan, and simmer again until they are tender, which, if they are young, will be in a quarter of an hour. Serve the peas on the dish with the lamb. Time, eight minutes to fry the chops. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Stones and Sweetbread, To Fricassee.—Soak three sweetbreads in cold water for three or four hours, and change the water once or twice during that time. Wash rind skin some lamb stones, put both them and the sweetbreads into boiling water, and let them boil for ten or fifteen minutes. Throw them into cold water. Cut the lamb stones into slices, press the sweetbreads into shape; if large, they may be divided into halves. Dry them well, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in boiling fat until they are brightly bro\vned on both sides. A dozen large oysters may be fried with them. Pour off the fat, and add a pint of boiling gravy, half a hundred asparagus-tops cut into small pieces, a salt- spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and foui- table- Hpoonfnls of light wine. Simmer very gently for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs. Draw the gravy to the side of the fire, let it cool for two or three minutes, mix it very gradually with the eggs, pour it back into the saucepan, and stir it until it thickens. It must not boil after the eggs are put in. Serve as hot as possible, and garnish Avith slices of lemon. Probable cost, tmcertain—it varies greatly with the season. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lamb Stove.— Split a- lamb's head in halves. Wash it thoroughly, blanch it, put it into a stewpan, with as much good stock as will completely cover it, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Pick and wash three handfuls of spinach, put it with the stew, and add a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, two or three green onions, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes longer, and serve all on the same dish. The French stew the fry with the head, and serve the head in the middle, and the fry finely minced round it, the whole being covered with parsley sauce. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Lamb Sweetbreads, Fried.—Soak three sweetbreads in water for two or three hours, to draw out the blood, then boil them for ten minutes, to set them firm, and throw them into cold water for ten minutes more. Dry them in a soft cloth, and press them between two dishes. Dredge a little flour over them, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle finely-grated.bread-cnmabs upon them, and fry them in bacon-fat or butter. Baste them constantly until brightly browned. A tea-spoonful of bread-raspings, such as are used for hams, may be strewn over the bread-crumbs, to insiire the colour being good. Have ready half a pint of good brown gravy. Stir a glass of sherry into it, to flavour it, and pour this round, not upon, the sweetbreads. Garnish with watercresses. Time, altogether, about half an hoiir, exclusive of the soaking. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Probable cost, imcertain. Lamb Sweetbreads, Larded.—Soak thi-ee sweetbreads in water for two or three hours, and change the water frequently. Put them into a saucepan, and let them boil for five or six minutes, to make them firm. Take them out, put them into cold water, and lard them closely. Place them in a stewpan, with as much good veal stock as will reach up to the larding, and put with them a sliced carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Let them sim- mer gently for ten minutes, and baste liberally during the time. Beat an egg, mix it with half a pint of cream, add a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and two or three grate? of nutmeg. Take the carrot, onion, and celery out of the sauce, let it cool a minute, then add the egg and cream. If preferred, a quarter of a hund&ed asparagus-tops may be stewed in the sauce, instead of the carrot and celery. Stir constantly until quite hot; but it must not boil after the egg and cream are added. A tea- spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of .pepper, should be put in, if the stock is not already seasoned. Servo the sweetbreads on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and send