PRINCIPLES—PRACTICAL APPLICATION. With regard to boiling and roasting meat, we have already noticed that the great principle is to keep in the flavour by causing the whole joint or piece of meat to be surrounded by a thia rim, which rim has been rendered hard by the albumen con- tained in the meat coagulating under the action of heat. Now, this substance albumen is so important in all cooking operations, that we think it desirable to explain more fully its nature and its properties. One of the purest, and at the same time easiest, forms in which albumen is seen is the white part of an egg. We all know how liquid the white part of a new-laid egg is before it is boiled, but how solid it becomes under the action of heat; for instance, compai-e a fresh egg just broken into a cup and a hard-boiled egg, and then remember that the liquid transparent part of one is albumen before it has suffered from the action of heat, and that the solid opaque part of the other is albumen that has been, so to speak, changed by the heat into apparently a different substance. Meat contains in its juices a considerable amount of albumen; when, therefore, meat is placed in boiling water, or exposed to considerable heat, as in roasting, the same change takes place in the albumen in the meat as in the egg. It will be at once evident how the coagulation of the albumen assists in stopping up all the little pores in the meat through which the flavour and gravy would have escaped. In fact, we may fairly compare a well-cooked joint to an ordinary well-boiled egg. It is generally known that an egg requires about three minutes to three minutes and a half to boil. When it is cracked, if done properly, the inside will be liquid, but surrounded by a coagulated film of albumen. This is just the same with a properly boiled leg of mutton; the outside thin rim is hard, but the inside tender. Just as in the case of the egg, had it been allowed to boil for twenty minutes instead of three, the whole would have become solid, the whole egg consisting chiefly of albumen; so, too, with the leg of mutton, if it had been exposed to a boiling tem- perature the whole time, the albumen in the whole of the joint would not merely have coagulated but would have hardened, thereby rendering the joint tough. As we have before pointed out, when once the principles of cooking are under- stood, one recipe will often lead to another. Cooking is an art—a high art—and cannot be learnt in a day, nor can it be leamt by simply reading a book on the subject. The study of cookery must be combined with practice. Now there is perhaps 00 part of this practice so impox'tant as the knowledge of varying recipes as occasion may require. It will be evident that no work on cooking, however large or however good, can adapt its recipes to meet the requirements of every family ia quantity as well as quaKty. We have endeavoured, therefore, when it is possible, to give in our present work different methods of preparing the various dishes, &c.; but, of course, it would be impossible to give recipes, one adapted to a family of two, another for one of six, and another of twelve persons. , We will illustrate what we mean by referring to an excellent recipe for preparing bechamel sauce on page 48. We have here recommended the cook to boil down an old fowl, three pounds of knuckle of veal, and three pounds of very lean ham. This is, of course, for the preparation of a large quantity. Now, we will suppose the case of a family consisting of but two persons, and say two servants—a by no means uncommon occurrence. Of course, to purchase such quantities for two would be extravagant to a degree; however, are we, say our newly-married couple, to be deban-ed from the occasional taste of sauce b^chameU By no means. If the cook is in possession of some little education and common sense, she would have no diffi- culty whatever in grasping the pHnci^^le of the recipe to which we have referred ou Istho. 1*