HOT HOR ( 319 ) finely-grated horseradish, and a table-spoonful of apples boiled to a pulp. Mix them well to- gether, add half a tea-spoonful of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and serve in a tureen. Time, a few mmutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 2d. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Horseradish Sauce with Cream (a German recipe).—Mix four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, ^vith two of white wine vinegar. Add a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and as much grated horseradish as will make a thick sauce. Serve in a tureen. Time, a few minutes to prepare. ■ Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Horseradish Sauce with Eggs (a German recipe).—Boil two eggs hard. Wben cold, pound the yolks Avith the back of a wooden •spoon, and add very gradually three or four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, sufficient to make a ^smooth cream. Add three dessert-spoonfuls ■of grated horseradish and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Serve in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil the eggs. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Horseradish Vinegar. — Take four ounces of grated horseradish. Put them into a jar, with a drachm of cayenne, an ounce of finely-minced shallots, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Pour over them a quart of boihng vinegar, cover closely, and keep in a warm place for a fortnight. Draw off the vinegar, let it boil once moie, strain it through a tamis, and keep it bottled closely until required. This vinegar will be found useful as a ireiiBh for cold meat, and for flavouring salads, &c. Probable cost, about 8d. Sufficient for a quart of vinegar. Hotch-potch.—Take two pounds of the narrow half of the round of beef. Cut it into pieces about two inches square, and put them -int« a stewpan, with a few scraps of fat beef or veall, Ave pints of water, and half a pint of •T)eer. Let these boU up, then add two large .carrots,sliced, two onions, two sticks of celery, two turnips, and some pieces of cauliflower. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for three hours. Melt two ounces of butter in .a saucepan. Mix a table-spoonful of flour ; smoothly with,it. Let it brown, dilute it with a little of the broth, season with ketchup, and ; add it to the rest of the etow. Let the broth boil ■ up once more, and add pepper and salt to taste. ; Serve in a large dish. Put the meat in the loniddle, the vegetables roTind, the gravy over : All,,and send to table as hot as possible. Hotch- -potch may be made with beef, mutton, lamb, fowl, or pickled pork, and with vegetables vary- ing according to the season. A mixture of two kinds of meat is very good, and some cooks mince the meat instead of serving it in cutlets. In the West Indies it is very commonly used I)y the natives, but is made so hot with pepper, ■that it is known by the name of " pepper -pot.'' Probable cost, 2s. for this quantity. Sufficient aor six or seven persons. Hotch-potch, Hotch-potch). Mutton {see Mutton Hotch-potch, Ox-tail,— Divide an 0 tail at the joints, rub it with salt, and soak it' in lukewarm water for an hour or two. Pr* 't into a stewpan with a scraped carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-leaf, two onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, a clove of garlic, six peppercorns, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to cover them. Simmer gently until the meat is tender, and leaves the bones easily. Thicken with flour and.butter, and serve with sippets round the dish. In the season, a pint of green peas, stewed in the gravy a few minutes before serving, is an improvement. Time, two hours. Probable cost, ox-tail, from Is. to 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Hotch-potch, Scotch. — Take three quarts of good mutton broth. Put it into a deep stewpan, and let it boU; then put with it a quart of young vegetables sUced, including equal quantities of carrots, turnips, onions, finely-shred lettuce, sprigs of cauliflower, and a little chopped parsley. Add a pint of freshly- shelled green peas, and three pounds of mutton chops, cut either from the loin or the best end of the neck, and freed from all superfluous fat. If preferred, lamb may be substituted for mutton : in either case the meat must be fresh and sweet, and the vegetables young. Boil until the meat and vegetables are tender, then add another pint of peas and a little pepper and salt, and, when these are tender, serve in a deep dish. Time, about two hours. Pro- bable cost, 48. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Hotch-potch, Winter.—Put a pound of dried green peas into water to soak the night be- fore it is intended to make the hotch-potch. Take two pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and two pounds of the shin or breast of beef. Cut the mutton into neat cutlets, free from all superfluous fat, and the beef into small square pieces. Set them aside until wanted. Put four quarts of water into a stewpan with two sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, four onions, a tea- spoonful of bruised celery-seed tied in musUn, the soaked peas, and a whole turnip and caiTot. Boil for two hours. Take out the whole can-ot and turnip, mash them to a pulp, and return them to the stew with the meat and a little pepper and salt. Simmer gently an hour longer, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Hotch-potch, Winter (another way),— See German Broth or Winter Hotch-potch, Hot Cross Buns.—Mix two pounds of flour with a small tea-spoonful of powdered spice and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Rub in half a pound of good butter. Make a hollow in the flour, and pour in a wine-glassful of yeast and half a pmt of warmed milk slightly coloured with saffron. Mix the surrounding flour with the milk and yeast to a thin batter; throw a little dry flour o-ver, and sot the pan before the fire to nse. WTien risen, work in a little sugar, one eg^r half a pound of currants, .and nulk to make a soft dough. Cover over as before, md let it stand half an hour. Then make the dough iuto huns, and