FAS ( «18 ) PAS the mixture "briskly for a minute or two, and bind it together with three well-beaten eggs. Make it up into balls, and throw these into the boiUng Hquid. \Yhen they are done enough, lift them out carefully with a strainer, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Serve immediately. Time to boil the baUs, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Passover Cakes.—Beat four fresh eggs thoroughly. Stii- into them eight ounces of the peculiar flour which is used only in Jewish famihes. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pint of lukewarm water. Beat the mixture thoroughly, put it into a tin, and bake in a brisk oven. Pro- bable cost, 7d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Paste.—Recipes for making the following pastes will be found under their respective headings:— Almond Garlic Anchovy German Apricot Gooseberry Apricot, Green Italian Brioche, or French Lemon for Dessert Cheese Nouilles Cherry Orange, Seville Cocoa-nut Pate Brisee Croquant Puff Currant Rice Farferl Short Flour Tart. Fruit Paste, Brioche.—Brioche paste may be served in a great variety of ways, all of which are excellent. It may be baked in one large cake; in fancy shapes, such as rings and twists; or in small loaves, rolls, or buns. Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese or sweets may be introduced into it, or small portions may be stewed in soup, or fried, or used as the outer FASTE-BOABD AND PIN. crust in which rissoles are cooked. Its most usual form, however, is that of a sort of double cake, the two parts being moulded separately, and moistened before they are joined, to cause them to adhere closely to one another. The upper portion of the brioche should be made smaller than the lower one, and the entire cake should be brushed over virith beaten egg before it is imt into the oven. When jam is put into brioches, it should be mixed with part of the R paste, and the rest rolled out, and put round it, so as to keep the fruit from boiling out. Cheese, on the contrary, should be well mixed with the paste, which should then be baked in tlie ordinary way. Gruyere cheese should be cut into small dice, and Parmesan cheese grated for this purpose. Brioche paste is best made on the evening of *ho day before it is wanted, as it requires to lie in a cool place for some hours before it is baked. Though delicious, it is considered rather indigestible. It must be baked in a well-heated oven. The quantity only which wiU be wanted for immediate use should be made at one time, as brioche paste will not keep. When properly prepared it is light and springy to the touch before it is baked, and it ought to rise in the sponge to fully twice its original size. It is made as follows:—Take a pound (weighing sixteen ounces) of dried and sifted flour. Divide it into four parts, and with one of these parts . make the leaven. To do this, put the flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the middle of it, and pour into this hoUow half an ounce of German yeast dissolved in a spoonful or two of warm water. Add as much water as is required to make the whole into a soft smooth paste, gather it into a ball, and put it into a bowl large enough to contain three times its quantity. Score the paste lightly across the top with the blunt side of a knife, cover with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise; it wiU be ready in about twenty minutes. Whilst it is rising take the remaining three parts of the flour. Make a hole in the centre, and put into this hole a quarter of an ounce of salt, half an ounce of powdered sugar dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of tepid water, ten ounces of butter, which has been washed in two or three waters, squeezed in a cloth to free it from moisture, and broken into smaU pieces, and four eggs freed from the specks. Work all gently together with the fingers, and add one by one three more eggs, until the paste is quite smooth, and neither too hard to be worked easily nor so soft that it sticks to the fingers. "WTien the leaven is sufficiently risen, put it upon the paste, and mix both together with the fingers gently and thoroughly. Put the dough into a basin, and leave it in a warm place all night. Early on the following morning knead it up afresh, let it rise two hours longer, and knead once more before it is baked. Brioche paste should be put into a well-heated oven. The time required for baking depends, of course, upon the size of the cake. Its appearance will soon show when it is done enough. The materials here given, if baked in one cake, would require about half an hour. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Paste for Common Pies.—Very ex- cellent pastry may be made with lard ot dripping, instead of butter, or with a mixture of lard and dripping. Good beef fat, or suet melted gently down, and poured oflE before it has had time to bum, is very nearly as good as anything that can be used for making pastry ^ for everyday use. Very palatable pics may be made from the dripping from roast beef, veal, pork, or mutton, though the last named