MUS MUS ( *34 ) a membranous collar round the stem, are also unsafe. These rules for knowing deleterious fungi seem to rest on fact and experience, but they will not enable the collector to recognise every poisonous species." The general rules laid down for distinguishing wholesome fungi ai-e not so well founded, but the most simple and easy mode of testing the quality of field fungi, according to Mr. C. W. Johnson, is to introduce a silver spoon, or piece of coin of that metal, or an onion, into the > essel in which mushrooms are seething : if on iking either of them out they assume a bluish-black or dark discoloured appearance, there are certainly some dangerous fungi among them ; if, on the other hand, the metal or onion on being withdrawn from the liquor wears its natural appearance, the fungi may be regarded as wholesome and innoxious. Mushrooms, Porcemeat of. — Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, in which stew some button mushrooms, or some small newly-opened ones, previously peeled, and with part of the stalk taken ott". Season with cayenne, a little powdered mace, and salt. In about six or seven minutes, when they have been well tossed in the pan, put them on a dish set sloping to drain off the butter, and when cold, have ready a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs; mix these with a quarter of a pound of the mush- rooms finely minced ; add a very little mace and nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and more salt or cayenne, if necessary, but the flavour of the mushrooms should predominate, and too much seasoning would destroy it. Moisten with some of the butter in which they were stewed, and break up small an oimce and a half of fresh butter. Bind the mixture with the yolks of two eggs, pound all in a mortar, and make into balls, to be used for soup, or fried and served with roast fowls, or roimd minced veal. Boiled fowls should have some of the forcemeat put inside. Mushrooms, Forcemeat of (another Mv&j).—See Forcemeat of Mushi-ooms. Mushrooms for Garnish. — Take fresh-gathered button mushi-ooms, cut off the stems, and wash them in a little cold water, then drain. Have ready squeezed the juice of half a lemon, put it with a small cup of cold water into an enamelled stewpan, into which throw each mushroom as it is peeled; add an ounce of butter and a little salt. Place the stewpan over the fire, bring it quickly to a boil, and, in five minutes, use the mushrooms as required. A good cook will know how to utilise the stems and peel of the mushrooms. In this case they may be chopped small and stewed in the gravy left after boiling the buttons. These trimmings axe useful for flavouring dishes or soups. Mushrooms for Garnish (another v^ray).—.See G-amish, Mushrooms for. Mushrooms, Grilled.—Cut the stalks, peel, and score hghtly the underside of large mushroom flaps, which should be firm, and fresh gathered. Sejison them with pepper and salt, and steep them in a marinade of oil or melted butter. If quite sound, they may be laid on a gridiron, over a slow, even fire, and grilled on both sides, but they are best done in the oven if at all bruised. Either way, serve with a sauce of melted butter, or on a hot dish, with a piece of butter on each mushroom, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Time, about twelve minates to gi'ill; forty minutes to steep in marinade. Sufiicient, one large mushroom for each person. Mushroom Ketchup.—Mushroom ket- chup is more highly esteemed and more gene- rally useful than any other. It is best when made of the large mushroom flaps, fully ripe, fresh, and perfectly dry—that is, gathered during dry weather. If this point is not at- tended to, the ketchup will not keep. Do not wash nor skin the mushrooms, but carefully remove any decayed, dirty, or worm-eaten por- tions ; cut off about half an inch from the end of the stalks, then break the rest into small pieces, put them into an earthen jar, and strew three-quarters of a pound of salt amongst two gallons of mushrooms, scattering the larger portion over the top. Let them remain all night, and the next day stir them gently wth a wooden spoon, and repeat this three times a day for two days. At the end of that time put the jar into a cool oven for half an hour, then strain the hquid which flows from them through a coarse cloth, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. Do not squeeze the mush- rooms. To every quart of the liquid put a quarter of an ounce each of Jamaica pepper and black pepper, and a drachm of mace. Boil again until the quantity is reduced one-half. Pour it out, and let it stand until cool, then put it into perfectly dry bottles, being careful to leave the sediment, which will have settled at the bottom, undisturbed. Resin the corks, or tie bladder over them, and keep in a cool, dry place. The liquid will have a better appearance if it is strained through a tamis after being poured from the sediment. If liked, two or three drops of brandy may be put into each pint of ketchup. It is well to use small bottles, so that the liquid may not be long kept after it has been exposed to the air. Probable cost of mush- rooms, variable. Mushroom Ketchup (another way).— Proceed as before directed, but let the mush- rooms stand twelve hours only, warming them over the fire to extract the juice. Strain the whole through a sieve, and boil and skim the liquor, adding to each quart, when clear, equal quantities of ginger, black peppercorns, and allspice, about one and a half ounces in aU, two small blades of mace, and five or six cloves. The mushrooms may be pressed dry after the juice has been strained from them: the juice may be used for flavouring hashes, or any dish where great delicacy is not required. Time, five minutes to boil without spice, fifteen minutes with. Mushroom Ketchup (another way).— Prepare the mushrooms ana salt them as in the last recipe. Let them stand twelve hours, then work them well with the fingers, and leave them again for thirty-six hours, stirring them occa- sionally with a wooden spoon. At the end of that time measure them into an earthen jar.