LAM ( 360 ) LAM in which it was cooked, and served with drossod vogotjiblos and Allcmando sauce. Probable cost, Is. per pound. iSuIliuiont for nine or ton persons. Lamb, Sauce for,—^lint sauce is usually served wilh lamb. To mako it:—Strip tho leaves from some fresh young mint, wash and dry them well, and chop thom as finely as pos- sible. Put thom into a tureen, and cover them Avith powdered sugar in tho proportion of a table-spoonful of sugar to one and a half of ^nint. Let these remain for half an hour, then pour over them throe table-spoonfuls of vinegar. If after a trial tliia sauce is found to be too sweet, a less proportion of sugar can bo used; but it has been very generally approved when prepared as above. The vinegar is sometimes strained from the mint-leaves before being sent to table. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Shoulder of.—Put a shoulder of lanab down to a clear fire, and baste it liberally while roasting. A quarter of an hour before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt upon it, and baste it with a little butter until it is nicely browned. Send a spoonful or two of the gravj' made from the joint in the dish with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce and green peas, salad, or ■potatoes generally accompany this dish. Time to roast,^ eighteen minutes for every pound. Probable cost, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of (a la Venison).— The same method is to be followed as for leg of lamb {see Lamb, Leg of, a la Venison). Lamb, Shoulder of, Grilled,—Take a shoulder of lamb, plunge it into, boiling water, let it boil three or four minutes, then draw it to the side of the fire and simmer it gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take it up, score it nearly to the bone in squares an inch apart, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it which have been seasoned with a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and flavoured with a table-spoonful of dried herbs, of which two parts should be parsley, one thyme, and one marjoram. Broil the meat over a clear fire \intil it is lightly browned, and send the following sauce to table with it:—Mix half a salt-spoonful of cayenne ■with four ounces of pounded sugar. Add half a pint of white vinegr.r, and simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. Add a glass of claret, and simmer again for a quarter of an hour. Serve very hot in a tureen. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of, Stuffed and Braised.—Take a shoulder of lamb, remove the bladebone without injuring the outer skin, but leave in the shankbone. Fill the cavity from which the bone has "been removed with good veal forcemeat. Sprinkle the inner surface with a little salt, popper, and grated nutmeg, and draw together the edges of the shoulder with some strong thread. Put tho lamb into a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon under and above it. Put with it twc onions, throe or four sticks of celery, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a pint and a liaU' of white stock. Braise the bimlj for two houi-s over a slow fire. Take it u]), drain it, boil thc gravy down quickly, and glaze the meat. After glazing, servo with either cucumber, tomato, or sorrel sauce. Probable cost, lOd. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb, Shoulder of, with TruflSes. —Take two shoulders of liiinb, bone aud trim them neatly, and spiiukle over each a tea- spoonful of salt, lialf a tea-spoonful of j)epper, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and two truffles cut into thin slices. Put the two shoulders togethei, press them closely, and tie them round securely with string. Place some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a convenient-sized saucepan; put the meat upon this, and then some more slices on the top; add two bunches of parsley, a very small bunch of thyme, three carrots, two onions, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint and a half of good stock. Cover the pan closely, and simmer verj' gently for three hours. At the end of that time take out the meat, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, boil the gravy quickly down to the consistence of sauce, and strain it over the lamb. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve as hot as possible. If truffles cannot be easily procured, they may be omitted, and the lamb cooked in the same way without them. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for. six or seven persons. Lamb Steaks, Brown.—Flatten the steaks, dip them into beaten egg, and after- wards into finely-grated bread-cruml3s flavoured and seasoned as follows:—With fom- heaped table-spoonfids of bread-crmnbs mix half a tea-spoonful of salt, quai'ter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and the thin rind o. a quarter of a lemon chopped as small as possible. Fry the chops in hot fat, thicken half a pint of nicelj'-seasoned gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and add a glass of port and half a dozen stewed mush- rooms. The latter may be omitted. Serve the steaks on a hot dish, pour the sauce into the centre, and garnish with fried sippets, or, if pre- ferred, pickled gherkins thinly sliced. Send green peas or stewed cucumbers to table witli these. Time, ten minutes to fry the steaks. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Lamb Steaks Ragout.—Take two pounds of lamb steaks, strew a little white pepper and powdered mace over them, and put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of liquid, half of which should be milk and half white stock. Let them simmer as softly as possible, •without ceasing, for an hour and a quarter, or until tender. Just before sers-ing mix a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder and a tea-spoonful of flour verv smoothly with a table-spoonful of cold milk. ' Stir this to tho sauce, add a salt-spoonful of salt, a wine- glassful of boiling cream, and half a dozen white mushrooms ready'stewed: serve imme- diately. Great care must bo taken in preparing