BUT (87) BUT Butter, Melted (another way).—Take a piece of butter the size of a hen'a egg, cut it into three or four slices, and work in as much of a dessert-spoonful of flour as the butter will take up. Put this into a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of cold water, keep stirring in one dii-ection as the butter melts, and dust in what remains of the flour. When they are well mixed, smooth, and the sauce boils up, it is ready for serving. Or the lump of butter may be simply put in the saucepan, then mixed with flour to form a paste, and have cold water added to make it of the right consistency. "When this method is adopted the sauce must be stirred till it boils. Good melted butter, even if smooth, should not be too thick or pasty. It wiU acquire that condition by being kept waiting too long at the side of the stove. In that case it can easily be thinned by the addition of more butter and a little warm water. Butter, Melted (simple and economical). —Mix two large tea-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of boiling water. Add a pinch of salt, and stir the sauce over the fire till it boils. Take it ofE the fire, mix with it a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when this is entirely dissolved send to table. A small quantitj' of lemon-juice can be added if for fish. Butter, Melted, French.—Hub a table- spoonful of flour into a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter, put it into a clean stew- pan, with a little salt, half a spoonful of white vinegar, a wine-glassful of water, and a little nutmeg. Stir it over the fire till it thickens; but the flavour will not be -so good if it boils. Or, melt a quarter of a pound of butter with- out flour; keep the pan in motion till qmte hot. The best butter should always be used for melting purposes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. per poimd. Buttered Mushrooms.—Remove the stems from yoimg mushrooms, and rub them with salt, then i-inse in salted water, and drj^ in a cloth. Put two ounces of fi'esh butter into a stewpan, over a very slow fire, and when the butter is of a beautiful pale brown, put in the mushrooms, and shake the pan to keep them from burning and the butter from oiling. When tender, serve them with their own gravy, arranged high on the dish. It is an excellent relish, and requires no sauce. Buttered Toast.—Cut slices rather more than a quarter of an inch thick, from a stale loaf, and toast them on both sides before a clear, bright fire; have a hot plate ready to put them on, and butter according to taste. Some like it buttered on both sides. Pare off the crusts and serve, covered up hot. For dry toast the slices should be cut thin, and held at a distance from the fire to make it crisp. A little move- ment of the hand will help this. Butter Preserved with Honey.— ■"•Vush and press the butter until it is quite free from milk. Put it in a jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water. When clarified, and just before boiling, remove it from the water to a cool place ; take off the scum, and work it up in the propoi-tion of two ounces of honey to every two pounds of butter. This mode of preparation will be found very convenient where butter is eaten with sweet dishes. It will keep as long as salted butter if the air be properly excluded from it. Butter, Ravigote (a la Gouffe).—This butter is composed of the following ingredients, pounded together in a mortar:—First, blanch in boiling water for two minutes, one pound of herbs—tarragon, mixed chervil, bumet, chives, and cress—then press out the water by squeezing them in a cloth. Put them, with half a dozen well-washed anchovies, and the same of hard boiled eggs, into a mortar, add a piece of garlic (about the size of a pea), a seasoning of salt and pepper, two ounces of gherkins, and two ounces of capers; these last should be well squeezed from the vinegar. When well pounded and smoothed through a sieve they are to be mixed with two pounds of butter, two table-spoonfuls of oil, and one of tarragon vinegar, and again pounded and mixed for use. Butter, Salt (Scottish method).—Put the butter into a tub of clean water, press it thoroughly with the hand or a broad butter- boater until the water is entirely removed. Lay it out on a board and sprinkle it with salt, an ounce to everj'^ three pounds of butter. Work and beat it well. Then make a brine strong enough to float an egg; add two ounces of loaf sugar, and boil it; when quite cold, put some of this prepared pickle to the butter, and press and squeeze off the water. If it does not come off clear, repeat the washing in fresh pickle. The kit or tub for storing is filled up within two inches of the top with butter, the pickle thro"wn on it, and a clean linen cloth over all. The lid of the kit must then be well secured. Butter Sauce.—Season a cupful of flour with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cloves. Mix it with some water into a paste, and work in a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Put the thin paste into a pan over the fire, and boil it for a quarter of an hour, then take it off, and add some fresh butter in smaU portions at a time, continually stirring the contents to pre- vent the butter from rising to the surface. After- wards add some vinegar and mix thoroughlj-. This sauce is used with fish and boiled vegetableis. {See also Melted Butter.) Batter Sauce, or Oiled Butter.— Take as much fresh butter as will be wanted, and melt it, but do not let it brown. Skim it, pour it out, let it rest a minute, then drain it from the curd at the bottom, add salt, and serve. This simple sauce is quickly made, and is gener^illy much liked. Butter Sc ones.—Take a pint of thin cream, salt it to taste, and stir it into flour enough to make a dough of the proper consistency. Knead well, roll out thin, and form into scones ; prick them with a fork, and bake over a clear fire on a griddle. Butter shovdd be served with them: they are excellent for breakfast or tea.