LOA C 385 ) LOB table-spoonful of yeast, a table-spoonful of milk, and a table-spoonful of water, and stir these into the cake. Put the mixture on one Bide a Httle time, and when it is risen mould it lightly; put it into a weU-buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loaf Cake, for Luncheon, fee- Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it six ounces of moist sugar and six ■well-beaten eggs. Add one pound of flour, three table-spoonfuls of rose-water, one table- £fpoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, one small nutmeg, grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a table-spoonful of dis- solved salerdtus, and a small tea-cupful of milk. Beat all thoroughly. Line an earthen cake- mould with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Loaf Cake of Indian Meal.—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into one pound of Indian meal. Pour over it as much boihng milk as will make it into a thick batter, and when this is cool stir into it two well-beaten eggs. Stone a quarter of a pound of raisins. Wash, pick, and dry a quarter of a pound of currants. Dredge over them as much line flour as will adhere to them, and stir them into the batter, and afterwards stir in six ounces of moist sugar. Pour the mixtirre into a weU-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Loaves, Mecca {see Mecca Loaves). Loaves, Oyster {^ee Oysters, Loaves of). Lobster.—This shell fish is in season from the beginning of April to the end of October, so that it, to a certain extent, .supplies the place during these months of the oyster. It is highly esteemed, and may be served in various ways. Medium-sized lobsters are the best for eating, and very small ones, which are the cheapest, may be used for sauce. The flesh of the male, or cock lobster as it is termed, is more delicate than that of the hen, and its shell assumes a brighter red after boil- ing. The hen is valued, however, on account of the spawn, which is used for making sauce, and the coral for garnishing salads, &c. The common lobster sometimes weighs as much as ten or twelve pounds when loaded with spawn, but a lobster of one pound weight, or even less, is considered fit for the market. When boiled, its beautifully clouded and varied bluish-black turns to a nearly uniform red. Lobsters are certainly nutritive, but not so much so as is commonly supposed. Not being easily di- gested, they require condiments, of which the most proper are those most frequently used, namely, vinegar and pepper. On some consti- tutions lobsters have a pernicious effect, and occasion eruptions of the skin and other dis- tressing symptoms of derangement. Great care should be taken that they are in good condition, and quite fresh. When stale, they are imwholesome in a high degree. \ Lobster (a la Braise).—ASfe Lobster, Baked. Lobster (a la Crfime). — Pick the meat from a large fresldy-boiled cock lobster, mince it finely, and put it into a saucepan with half a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar, and one of light wine. When quite hot, put with it two ounces of fresh butter, lightly rolled in flour, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring aU the time, and when thoroughly heated put the mixture into the shell of the lobster, place it on a neatly-folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Probable cost of lobster, 2s. to Ss. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster (a la Fran(,'ai8e).—Pick the flesh from a medium-sized fresh lobster, and cut it into small dice. Stir two table-spoonfuls of cream into a quarter of a pint of white stock, season with a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, put it into a stewpan with the lobster, and let it simmer very gently. Scrape the shell, and put it upon a dish with a border of puff paste round it. Pour the mixture into this, cover rather thickly with fine bread- crumbs, and brown it by holding over it an iron shovel which has been made red-hot. Time, to simmer five or six minutes. Probable cost of medium-sized lobster. Is. 6d., when in full season. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster and Oyster Pie.—Pick the meat from the tails of two freshly-boiled lob- sters, and cut it into neat pieces, which must be seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and poimded mace. Bruise the shells and spawn, and make a little gravy from them. Pound the flesh from the claws and bodies to a smooth paste, mix with it a slice of bread finely-gi-ated, six ounces of fresh butter, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Line the edges and sides of a pie-dish with good puff paste. Put in the slices of lobster, then two dozen oysters with their liquid, and after- wards the pounded meat. Lay the cover over all, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Before serving, strain a little of the gravy from the shells into the pie. When the pastry is cooked enough the pie is done. Probable cost of lobsters, Is. 6d. each, sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lobster and Prawn Soup {see Prawm and Lobster Soup). Lobster, Baked (or Lobster k la Braise). —Take the flesh of a large fresh hen lobster, chop it small, then pound it in a mortar, and mix with it a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, three grains of cayenne, half a salt- spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, and two well-beaten eggs. Shape the mixture with the hands into its original form. Pound the coral and spawn, and lay them on the meat; then bake in a quick oven. Before serving, put the shell, taU, and small claws upon the meat in such a way as to make it have the aj pearance of an undressed lobster. Bake a quarter of an hour. Proba>)le cost of a medium-sized lobster, when in full season. Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. '