APR ( 28 ) APB must not bo allowed to colour. When apri- cots ciinnot 1)0 obtained, young apples taken from the tree before the cores are formed are an excellent substitute. Time to bake, half an horn-. IVobable cost, 1b. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricot Water Ice.—Skin, divide, and stone, SIX largo ripe aju-icots. Blanch, pound, and add the kernels to the fruit, with the juice of two lemons, half a pint of water, and two of clarified sugar. Then pass all through a fine sieve, and again strain before freezing. Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Probable cost of apricots. Id. each. Apricot Wine.—Boil twelve pounds of sliced ripe apricots and a pound of sugar in three gallons of water for half an hour, and strain the liquor into a pan. Put with them a few of the kernels of the fruit, mix all together, and having covered the vessel, leave the liquid to cool. Mix one table-spoonful of fresh brewer's yeast with it, and leave it for three or four days to ferment. Then pour off the clear liquid into a cask, which must be scrupulously clean, and let it remain until the fermentation is ended. A pint of Ehenish or other white wine should then be added, and the cask closed for six months. At the end of that time it should be decanted into bottles, and kept for a year longer before being used. Time to boil, half an hour; ferment, three or four days. Pro- bable cost, 38. a gallon. Sufficient to make three gallons. Apricots (au Riz).—Put a cupful of rice in a saucepan with a quart of millc, a piece of butter the size of a nut, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of a lemon. Let all simmer gently, and when the milk is absorbed and the rice tender, add to it four well-beaten eggs. Boil up again, stirring all the time, to cook the eggs. Remove the lemon-rind. Put a gallipot in the middle of a large glass dish, and heap the rice round it; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and let'it slope down to the edges of the dish. When it is cold, remove the gallipot, and place the apricots in the hollow, piling them pjrramidicaUy. They must be prepared thus : Take two dozen of the fresh fruit, sound and ripe : pare, stone, and slice them. Make a syrup of a breakfast-cupful of sugar and the juice of two lemons. When it is boiling, throw in the slices, and cook them quickly. A few of the kernels may be blanched and chopped and strewed over the fruit. Place a layer of apricot marmalade mixed with the syrup at the bottom of the hollow, and pile the stewed fruit on that. Time to stew the shces, five minutes. Pro- bable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Apricots, Comp6te of.—Take one dozen large sound apricots; halve them, remove the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put three- quarters of a pound of loaf sugar into an enamelled stewpan with a pint and a half of water. Let it boil; then put in the apricots, and let them simmer very gently for a few minutes. Take them out, drain them, and ar- range them in a dish. When the syrup is cold, poui- it over the fruit. Put half a kernel upon each piece of apricot. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apricots, Compote of (another way). —Pare and scald eiglit or nine apricots ; halve and stone them. Put into a saucepan half a pound of pounAed loaf sugar and half a pint of water. When the scum risc-H, put in the apricots, sliced, with tliree of the kemek. When done, put them in a dish, and pour th« syrup round them. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient, one apricot for each person. Apricots, Compote of Green.— Remove, by rubbiug with a dry cloth, the down from a pound of young green apricots. Put into a saucepan three-quarters of a pint of water and half a pound of sugar ; let it boil for ten minutes or more, being careful to remove the scirni as it rises. Put in the apricots; simmer them very gently. Lift them out one by one with a spoon to prevent them breaking, and place in a glass dish. When the syrup is cool, pour it roimd them. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Apricots, Plane of.—Make a good short crust with one pound of flour, six otinces of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, the yolk of an egg, and enough milk to make the pastry of a proper consistence. Well butter a plain oval mould, and line it with the crust about half an inch in thickness, pressing it well in to take the shape. Let it rise above the mould about half an inch, and pinch it at regular distances to ornament it. Fill it with flour, and bake it in a good oven for about half an hour. Then empty out the flour, take the case from the mould, being very careful not to break it, and put it back in the oven for another quarter of an hour. It is now ready for the apricots, which should be pared, stoned, and halved, then simmered gently in a syrup made of half a pound of sugar boiled in half a pint of water,, until they are quite tender but not broken. Lift them out, arrange them neatly ia the crust; boil the syrup imtil it is reduced to a jelly, and pour it over the fruit. Serve either hot or cold. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Apricots, Frosted.—Choose twelve sound apricots: put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a piece of alum the size of a nut. Let them stew a few minutes very gently, imtil the skin can be drawn ofl^. Remove the skin, dip the apricots in clarified butter, and strew thickly over them sugar coarsely crushed. Put them into a moderate oven until the sugar sparkles; but take care that the fruit is not broken. Pile them on a dish, and serve cold. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apricots in White Jelly.—Take half a dozen apricots: scald them and draw off the skin; then place them in a saucepan with a cupful of water and half a poimd of sugar boiled to a syrup; let them simmer gently until they are tender, but not broken; place them in a mould, which must be filled with whit«