MtTT MTJT ( 439 ) rather small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan with about an ounce of butter, and brown them nic«ly, then cover with weak broth or water, and stew for an hour. Remove the meat from the stewpan, and clear the gravy from fat. Put the meat into a clean stewpan, add an onion or shallot, sliced finely, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and strain the gravy over all. Stew for another hour, when put in a quart of young peas, and in about fifteen minutes serve. Macaroni may be put in the place of peas. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton Broth. — Lean meat is best for broth; from two to three pounds of the sci-ag end of the neck is suited to the purpose, and if for a plain broth, not requiring much strength, allow a quart of water to each pound of meat. Put quite cold water on the meat, and set it over a slow fire to heat gradually. Simmer gently, and remove the scum. When no more scum is to be seen, and the meat is sufficiently done to be eaten, it may be removed for the family dinner, and any addition to the broth made. Pearl barley, rice, or oatmeal, with a carrot, a turnip, an onion or leek, may be added, the vegetables being cut neatly. Season to taste. Warm up the meat, and serve in a separate dish, or with the broth. Pearl barley should be boiled separately for a few minutes, and then strained, and boiled with the broth. Time to simmer meat, an hour and a half. Sufficient for two quarts of broth. Mutton Broth (Invalid Cookery).—Boil two pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton in about three pints of cold water, and if the patient can digest vegetables, it will be much improved by the addition of a little turnip, par- sley, finely minced, and onion. Put in the vege- tables when the broth boils, and simmer three hours, take off the scum as it rises. Strain, and let it grow cold, then take off the fat. If pearl barley be added, it should be boiled as long as the meat, and before being put with it should be boiled in water for ten minutes, drained, and afterwards added to the broth. Veal may be boiled in the same manner; the knuckle is the part generally used for broth. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for a pint and a half to two pints. Mutton Broth, Mock.—Mix a table- spoonfid of oatmeal to a smooth batter with three table-spoonfuls of cold water, and stir to it a pint of boiling water. Pour this into a sauce- pan and boil, and stir for five minutes, adding, when as thick as required, a few drops of the essence of sweet herbs, a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and salt and pepper to taste. Mutton Broth, Nourishing and Delicate.—Take three pounds of the knuckle part of the leg of mutton, separate the shank- bone, that it may lie flat in the saucepan. Cover with cold water, and mix in a table-spoonful of Scotch barley, which should be kept stin-od until the water boils, then remove from tha fire to simmer, adding salt, and skimming the surface while any scum rises. Strain off the broth for use, and serve the mutton with the barloy round it. Time, three hours and a half to sLiuiuer. Mutton Broth, Quickly Made.—Cut two thick chops from the neck, but remove the bones and all fat. Cut the meat into dice, and put it into a stewpan with a pint of cold water; then scrape the bones, break them, and add them, with a very small onion, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and some pepper and salt, to the stew- pan. Brine: the water to the boil quickly, skim well, draw back, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, when the broth will be ready. Take off every particle of fat; this is much easier done when the broth is allowed to cool. It should be re-warmed by setting the basin into boiling water. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Mutton Broth, Scotch, in Summer. —Boil four pounds of lean mutton in four quarts of water, stir into it eight ounces of Scotch barley. Keep it well mixed until the water boils, and sldm the surface _ carefully while simmering as fast as the scum rises. Cut up a couple of carrots, a turnip, and an onion; add these, with a quart or more of green peas, a few sprigs of parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of pepper and salt, mixed. The vegetables should not be allowed to boil a longer time than is required to cook them. Scotch broth may be made of beef or veal. Time, two hours and a half altogether. Sufficient for three quarts. Mutton, Casserole of, Plain.—The remains of under-done leg of mutton cut into small neat slices, and seasoned appropriately, may be boiled in a basin with a lining of suet- crust, or in "plain casserole," which is in a mould thickly lined with mashed potatoes. The mould should be very well buttered, and when filled with the meat, moisten with some thick meat-gravy, and cover with more mashed potatoes. Turn out on a dish, and have ready some more gravy to serve with it. Bake for half an hour. Mutton Chops.—Take chops from the beet end of the neck, saw off about four inches from the top and the chinebones. Cut away the skin and gristle from the upper end of the bone, which will give the cutlet a round, plump appearance. Sprinkle each chop with salt and pepper, and dip them separately into dissolved butter. Strew with bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear slow fire, that the crumbs may not acquire too much colour; or, oil each chop slightly, and broil over a brisk fire. A trimmed mutton cutlet of five ounces in weight will require about six minutes to cook. Time, with bread-crumbs, seven or eight minutes. Mutton Chope la Soyer). — First select well-fed mutton, but not too fat, and get the chops evenly cut; if not, beat them into shape with the chopper. Not more than one-third of the chop should be fat. Put an ounce of buttor or lard into the frying-pan ; when it is entirely melted seize the chop at the bone end with a fork, and dip it for half a minute into the fat, then turn on one side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and, if liked, finely-chopped shallot or onion, and savoury herbs. In three minutes tui-n, and serve the other side the Siime; equalise the cooking by frequent turning, but give the chop altogether not more than ten