( 305 ) HAB HAB pint and a half of milk, and, when this is dried up, linish with a little butter. It is a better pliui, however, to use good beof di-ipping until the lust few minutes. When the hare is nearly done enough, ilour it, and baste it with butter till it is nicely bro'svned. The time required for roasting wiU depend upon its age and size. A moderate-sized hare ynll take from an hour and a quarter to an hour and three-quarters; a large one two hours. Ta-ke the hare up, re- move the string and skewers, and send a little good brown gi'avy to table with it, and the rest in a tureen. Red currant jelly should always accompany roast hare. Probable cost, 3a. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast (another way).—Truss and stuff the hare as in the last recipe. Put it do\vn before a clear fire for a few minutes, to set the flesh, then cover it all over with slices of fat pork or bacon. Eoast it the usual time, and send good brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time, one and a quarter to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast (German way). — Put a quarter of a pint of vinegar and a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan, with a sliced onion, two bay-leaves, half a dozen peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of parsley and thyme, and three cloves. Boil the marinade, and when cold pour it over a young hare, trussed for roasting, but not stuffed. Let it remain for .twenty-four hours, and baste it frequently. Lard it, and put it do\vn before a clear fire, or bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it with the Liquid and a little butter or dripping. A little while before it is done baste it ^vith new milk. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. Time, an hour and a quarter to roast. Probable cost, 38. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Roast, Cold.—Good hare soup may be made of the remains of cold roast hare. Chop it small, and put it with the stuffing and three quarts of water into a saucepan. Let it simmer gently for two hours. If no stuffing remains, the usual herbs and seasoning must be added. Rub it through a sieve, boil up, and serve. A glassful of red wine may be added, if liked. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Roast, Liver Sauce for {see Liver Sauce for). Hare, Roast, Mock.—Take the inside lean from a sirloin of beef, or a thick rump steak weighing about three pounds, spread on it some good hare forcemeat, roll and tie it securely with tape, and fasten it on a spit. Roast it be- fore a clear fire, baste liberally, and send good brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time, about an hour to roast. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hare, Roast, To Carve.—Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut from that down to the rump, along the sides of the backbone. The slices should be moderately thick. Another way of carAang hare is to remove Lhe shoulders "and legs, and cut the back crosswise into four or five pieces. This, however, can only be done when the hare is very young, or when it has been toned. When cooking is set about on a grand scale, the backbone of hares, and especially of old hares, is usually taken out, thus rendering the labour of cai-ving much easier. To separate the leg, put the knife between the leg and the back, and give it a little turn inwards at the KOASr RARE. joint, which you must try to hit and not to break by force. The shoiilders must be taken off by cutting in a circular line round them. These last are kno-wTi as the sportsman's pieces; some prefer them, but generally they are thought little of, and axe served only when the other portions of the hare are exhausted. The most delicate part is the back ; after that come the thighs. When every one is helped, take off' the head. The upper and lower jaw should be divided by inserting the knife between them; this will enable you to lay the upper part of the head conveniently on the plate. That being done, cut it in two. The ears and biains ai'c highly-prized by connoisseurs. With each slice of hare some of the stuffing should be served. And some of the gi'avy should accompany it. This is an important point, for roast hare is naturally dryish, and requires the aid of plenty of gravy to be properly relished. Hare, Sauce for.—Crmnble three ounces of bread as if for bread sauce. Let it soak in port wine, and, when quite soft, beat it over the fire with an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of red currant jeUy, a little salt, and a table spoonful of chili vinegar. Serve as hot as possible. Time, a few minutes after the bread is soaked. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Sauce for (another way).—Fry a sliced carrot and a sliced onion in a little butter until lightly browned. Pour overthem half apint of brown sauce, nicely seasoned, add a blade of mace, a httle salt and pepper, if necessary, and a quarter of a pint of stock, and simmer gently for half an hour. Strain the gravy, stir into it two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly and a' table-spoonful of vinegar, and serve in a tureen. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hare Scollops (French).—Cut the fillet or meaty part of the back of a hare into pieces half an inch thick and two inches wide. Put them with two ounces of butter into a stewpnn and fry them unti] ligbtlv browned. Pour oi\ the butter, and put hall apint of good brown