(99) CAL CAL dish, and send it to table with two tureens of Kiuce—one of parsley iuid butter; and the other nuido of half a pint of good gravy mixed with the brains boiled and chopped small, a flavouring of salt and cayenne and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Time to bake, throe- quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. CalTs Head, Fricasseed.—Cut the re- mains of a cold calf's head into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and lay them aside until wanted. Put a pint and a half of the liquid in which the head was boiled into a saucepiin with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, a bunch of savoury herbs, and an onion stuck with four cloves. Let these simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; then strain the liquid, and pour it into a jar until wanted. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; let it melt, then mix with it very smootUy a table- spoonful of flour, and afterwards, very gra- dually, the strained liquid. Put the meat in, let it boil, draw it from the fire for a minute or two, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Before serving, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold calf's head, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Calfs Head, Fried.—Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into pieces about an inch and a half wide. Lay them for three hours in a pickle made of two table-spoonfuls of lemon- juice, the same of white wine, salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Take them out, di-ain them, and dip each piece into a batter. Fry them in boiling fat till they are a bright brown, and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d., without the wine. Calfs Head, Hashed.—Cut the remains of a cold caK's head into nice slices about a quarter of an inch thick and three or four inches long, and set them aside until wanted. Take the Remains of the brains and beat them up with a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of finely-shred lemon-rind, and a little salt and pepper. Make this into cakes, and fry them in hot fat till they are nicely browned. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan; melt it, then mix with it very smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, half a pint of well-flavoured stock, a little pepper and salt, and cayenne, and the liquor from a score of oysters, or, what will be very good, though not as good, a table-spoonful of the liquor from a tin of Oysters; let this boil up, add the pieces of head, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a score of oysters, fresh or tinned. Let all simmer imtil quite hot, but the preparation must not boil again. Serve the meat in the middle. Pour the gravy over, and arrange, alternately, fried bacon and the brain cakes round it. Time altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the meat, with fresh oysters, 2s. 6d.; with tinned oysters, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five nersons. CalTs Head Hashed (another way).— Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness and three or four inches square. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan; let it melt, then fry two large onions in it cut into dice, and when they are lightly browned take them out, and mix very smoothly with the butter, one table- spoonful of flour, and a cupful of the liquor in which the head was boiled. Add the onion and two table-spoonfuls of pickled gherkins, chopped small, then the pieces of cold calf's head. Let all simmer gently for two or three minutes; serve as hot as possible. A glass of sherrj' is an improvement. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for foiir or five persons. Calfs Head, Hashed (another way).— Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices, dip them in egg and gTated bread-crumbs, and put them aside until they are wanted. Place the bones, gristle, and trimmings into a saucepan with two pints of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and put with them an onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon, with a little salt and cayenne. Let these simmer gently imtil reduced to half; then strain the gravy, and mix it with any of the sauce or brains that may be left, and if these are not sufficient to thicken it, add a little rice flour. The addition of a little white wine is an improvement. Let these simmer gently together for ten minutes. Fry the pieces of meat which are already pre- pared, place them in the middle of the dish, and pour the gravy round them. The egg and bread-cnunbs may be omitted, and the pieces of meat put in the sauce to warm, and little pieces of bacon warmed with it. Time, one hour to simmer the bones and gravy; ten minutes to boil all together. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for fom- or five persons. Calfs Head, Mock Turtle Soup of. —Take half a calf's head with the skin on, remove the brains, wash it in two or tlireo waters, and boil it gently for an hour and a haK. Take oS. the skin, cut it and the flesh into pieces about an inch and a half square, and throw them into cold water. Drain, and put them into a saucepan, cover with stock, and let them simmer gently for another hour and a half. Put three quarts of nicely-flavoured stock into a separate stewpan, and with it a tea-spoonful of minced thjTtne, a tea-spoonful of marjoram, four bay-leaves, three dessert- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, half an ounce of whole pepper, half an oimce of salt, three onions with four cloves stuck in them, half a head of celery, and two table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup. Let these simmer slowly for two hours. Strain the liquor, thicken it with two table-spoonfuls of flour, mixed with a little cold water, and added gradually, then pour it into the same saucepan as the meat, add half a pint of sherry, eight or nine forcemeat balls (one for each person), the hard-boiled yolks of five eggs, and the juice of a lemon. Let all simmer for a few minutes, and serve. The forcemeat balls should be made by mixing