(ao9) PIS easily; if so, weigh them, and to each pound of fruit allow a pound of sugai-. Clarify the sugar, and put the figs into it while hot. Sim- mer for ton or twelve minutes. In a couple of days add the thin rind of a lemon and a little ginger to the sjTup, and heat the figs in it agsiin; do this twice, divide, the figs into halves, alid put them, in their syrup, into pots. Tie down closely. Figs, Stewed.—Dissolve in an enamelled Kiuccpan a quarter of a pound of fine sugar with a pint of cold water; add to it anything to flavour—orange, lemon, or almond, if pre- ferred. Put into this one pound of the best Turkey figs, let them have very little heat, so that they may swell; if properly done this compote will be excellent, but the figs must be stowed very slowly, and when tender, a glass or two of port wine and a little lemon-juice should be added. When eaten hot, serve with a border of rice; when cold, send to table on a glass dish. The thin rind of a large lemon boiled with the figs will fiavour this dish weU. Time, about two hoirrs and a half to stew gently. Pindon or " Finnan " Haddocks.— These haddocks are held in great esteem for their peculiar and delicate flavour. The genuine iFmnaji may be known by its odour and riKNAN HADDOCK. creamy yellow colour. Strip off the skin, and broil before the fire or over a quick, clear one. Kub the fish over with butter, and serve hot. Some persons prefer to cut them in pieces and steam them iu a basin of boiling water. Heat the basin first, throw boiling water on them, and cover closely with a plate; if kept on a hot stove, they will require from ten to fifteen minutes, and when drained, should be placed on a hot dish and rubbed over with butter. Serve hot. Excellent as a breakfast relish.' If hked the haddock maybe toasted before the fire. Findon, or "Finnan" Haddocks, Jl ried.—Rub butter or oil on both sides of the fish, and put it into a frying-pan smeared with either. Shake the pan over a clear fire In three or four minutes the fish wiU be sufficiently done. Servo hot, with a Uttle more butter rubbed over. Probable cost, 6d. to I3. Finger Biscuits.—Take six eggs, and divide the yolks from the whites. Beat up the yolks with half a pound of fine sugar; mix for five minutes, and add the whites, well whipped, with five ounces of flour. Flavour with vanilla, lemon, or orange-flower water. Make a paste- board fuimel, fiU it with the paste, and press the biscuits through the aperture at the end, which should be cut to about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Make the biscuits in the shape of a finger, and about three inches long. Drop them on a baldng-sheet in straight Unes. Sprinkle finely-sifted sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. They should be a light yellow colour. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost of this quan- tity. Is. Fish Cakes.—Make a savoury gravy, by boiling down the heads, tails, fins, and bones of any fish, with water enough to cover them. Add onion, herbs, pepper, salt, and a very little mace. With the meat, when well minced, mix a third part of the quantity of bread- crumbs, and a flavouring of the same kind as that used for gravy. Moisten with melted butter, and bind with white of egg. Cover the cake with raspings, and fry in butter tiU of a light brown. When the gravy has been strained from the tiimmings, put it, with the cake, into a stewpan, cover close, and stew gently for a quarter of an hour. While the cake is being fried turn a plate over it. Time, eight to ten minutes to fry. Pish Cakes (another way). — Take the fish left from dinner while warm; remove the skin and bones, and mix with mashed potatoes. Add pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and an ounce of butter. Moisten vtdth an egg into a pasie, and roll into balls ; then flatten and dip into egg. Fry in butter or lard to a nice brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Fish, Cold, To Re-dress.—Put any cold fish—turbot, brill, soles, whiting, or smelt —cut small, into escallop-shells, with bread- crumbs and some good fish sauce — oystoi-, lobster, or shrimp. Place the shells in a Dutch oven. They will when browned be excellent. Put a little butter on the top of each. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. ' Pish Croquettes of.—Mix over the fire a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, and half a gill of cream. Add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a little seasoning, and half a pound of cold dressed fish beaten to a paste. Let the mixture cool, and form it into balls, let these bo egged and breaded. Fry to a nice brown in hot fat, and serve with gravy, made by boiling down the bones, fins, and tails with an onion. Add an anchovy and seasoning to taste. Probable cost of this quantity, exclusive of cold fish, 4d. Fish, Croquettes of (German).—Make a very savoury and piquant ragout of fish, dis- solving in it enough gelatine to bind it when cold, and a small cupful of bread-crumbs. Cut into pieces, when cold, about the length and 3ii:o of a finger, and roll them into sausages, to