BHE ( 80 ) BBI this quantity of dough. Time for bukiiig, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Trobablo cost, 7d. Breakfast Cakes or Rolls (another way).—Mitko a batter with two ijouud.sof liour, and as much warm milk and water, with about a quarter of a pint of fi'esh yeast, and a little salt, as will smooth it. Let it stand before tho tiro to rise for two hours. Have ready a little Hour and butter well rubbed together, and make tho batter with this, and as much more flour as may bo required, into a light dough. Make it into rolls and bake on tins; rasp, and keep them covered up warm till wanted. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sufficient for twelvo ordinary- sized rolls. Probable cost, 8d. Breakfast Muffins.—Stir flour enough into a pint of hot milk, and about a quarter of a pint of yeast to make a thin battor, then put it in a warm place to rise. Rub two ounces of butter into a little flour, add salt, and with more milk and flour make the batter into a stiff dough. I'ut it aside well covered up in a warm place for half an hour, when the dough will be quite ready to shape into muffins, but they should not he baked until they have stood for another quarter of an hour. They are easily baked in a frying-pan or on a griddle. Time to bake, twenty minutes to half an hour. Bream, To Dress.—This handsome, but not very excellent fish, will eat best if broiled over a slow clear fire for half an hour. The inside must be thoroughly cleansed, but the scales should not be removed; and it should be wiped perfectly dry before it is put on the fire. Turn it so that both sides may be browned, and dredge a little flour if any cracks appear. Serve with melted butter and anchovy sauce. In carving, remove the scales and skin, and serve only what is underneath. Bream may be stuffed with a veal forcemeat, and baked—it wiU take longer than the broiling process—or wrapped in a buttered paper, and placed in a moderate oven for about half an hour. It should be well basted in its own dripping and a little butter. Bremen Cheesecakes. — Cheesecakes from this recipe are quickly prepared and at little cost. Beat well, till white, the yolks of eight eggs, and add eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar and eight ounces of sweet almonds, pow- dered. Line the pans with a thin paste, and put in the mixture with a little fresh butter on the top of each just before they are placed in tho oven. Take care that the oven is not too hot, or the cakes will fall in cooling. Bake for about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Brentford Rolls.—Take two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of powdered sugar, two eggs, quarter of a pint of yeast, milk enough to form a dough, and salt according to taste. Rub tho flour, butter, and sugar together; beat the eggs, and add them to the other ingredients. When light, mould the dough out in rolls, let them rise, and bake on tins in a moderate oven. Breslau Beef {see Beef, Breslau). Bretonne Brandv Pudding.—Boil six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint ot milk, allow it to cool for a little, and add to it six well- beaten eggs; then let it get quite cold. I'reimre a quarter of a pound of thin slices of stale broa<i and saturate the half of them with two glasses of brandy. Lay some of tho bread iu a basin previously buttered, holding a pint and a half. Strew over it some chopped caudic-d orange-peel and stoned raisins, and then some custard, till all is used up. Tie tho basin over with a buttered paper. Let it stand to soak for tjn minutes, and steam for an hour and thi-ee- quarters. Turn out, and servo with a sauce of clarified sugar which has been seasoned with vanilla and brandy. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons, Bretonne Sauce (for Cold or Hot Beef). —Mi.x a wine-glassful of vinegar with equal quantities of pounded sugar and mustard, a tea-spoonful of each, and about a table-spoon- ful of grated horse-radish. When pickles are preferred, this mixtirre will bo found very agreeable; it combines the flavour of a sauce and pickle. Probable cost, 4d. Bride Cake.—Commence operations by washing, picking, and putting two pounds of currants to dry before the fire, and then slicing thinly half a poimd each of candied peels, BRIDE CAKE. orange, citron, and lemon. Next, bruise one poimd of sweet almonds with a little orange- flower water, and pound quarter of an ounce each of mace, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs to a powder. Wash four pounds of butter, and whip it to a cream; beat up the yolks and whites, separately, of eighteen or twenty eggs— the whites should be frothed, (rot two poimds of sifted sugar, half a jiint of brandy, and the same of sherry, and four pounds of Vienna flour, well dried and sifted. Put the creamed buttci- into a large basin, and by degrees mix in tho