BEE ( 65 ) BEE Beef, Stewed, Leg of.-M^ke a force- meat of one pound and a quai-tor of fiuely-ahred Buet, some savoury and marjoram, a few cloves pounded, and a little pepper and salt, mixing all well together. Make several good-sized holes in a part of a leg of beef (about six or seven pounds will do), that has had salt rubbed over it for two or three days previous, and fill them with the forcemeat. Put it into a deep baking-pan with some of the forcemeat over the top, and the pan more than half full of water. Keep the pan closely covered, and let the moat stew for four hours. The forcemeat from the top will serve to garnish, and may be cut into any form for the purpose. That pressed into the meat, if lightly put in, will much im- prove the flavour. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Beef Stock.—Bone a rump of beef and tie it neatly together; break the bones and place both into a stewpan with two quarts of water to every three poimds of meat. Heat it very gradually and slowly by the side of the fire, re- moving the scum before and after it boUs. Add salt in proportion to the water, about two ounces to the gallon. When all the scum has been re- moved, throw in three or four carrots, and the same of turnips, a small head of celerj', a few yoimg leeks, an onion stuck with eight cloves, a small tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Let this stew for five hours very gently, when the beef will be done, but not overdone. It may be served with young cab- "bages, boiled in the usual way, pressed, and then stewed for seven or eight minutes in some of the beef stock or broth. This broth, in France, is made the basis of all soups and gravies, and with the addition of a knuckle of veal, poultry trimmings, a calf's foot, and a little ham, it will make a strong rich stock. If wanted to be used ^it the same time with the meat, strain, remove the fat, and serve with toasted bread. Beef Suet for Piecrust.—Shred some 8uet and clear it from all sidn and fibre, put it into a basin, cover it with boiling water, and place it on a hot plate, or near the fire. When melted, pass it through a strainer into another vessel containing boHing water, and when cold, pierce the fat and let the water run out. If any sediment remain it will be found on the under- side of the caked fat, and can be scraped off with a knife. Suet thus prepared, with the ad- dition of a little lard or oil, can be worked into the consistency of butter, and may be used with success in making crusts for meat pies. Drip- ping may be cleansed in the same manner. Its adaptation to many purposes wiU depend on the management in clarifying, &c. Beef Tea,—Take a pound of lean, fleshy beef, put it into a basin containing one quart of cold water, first cutting it into very small bits; let it soak in this water an hour or more, then put both water and beef into a clean saucepan and bring it to a boil; put in a little salt and take off the scum as it appears; simmer very gently, and strain for use in little less than an hour. When warmed up again, it should not bo put into a saucepan, but heated by setting the cup of tea into boiling water. Cost, about Is. 4d, per quart. D Beef Tea (another way).—Use for this, not an iron saucepan, but an earthen pot with a well-fitting lid, which will stand, without cracking, the heat of the iron plate on the top of the cooking-stove. Fill it from one-third to a quarter full of good lean beef, cut into shapely pieces the size of a small walnut, in order that they may be presentable afterwards in a rata- touille, or as potted beef, seasoning slightly with salt and a few whole peppercorns. Then pour on cold water nearly to the brim, and set it on the plate or top of a cooking-stove to simmer gently several hours, taking off any scum and fat that may rise. The beef may be taken out when done enough, or it may be left in the pot until all the strengtii from it has been extracted. Stir with a spoon before serving a portion, in order to have the nutritious particles which have sunk to the bottom suspended in the tea. Where there is no cooking-stove, the beef tea may be slowly cooked by setting the earthen pot containing it in a large iron vessel of boiling water, or, if the lid is luted down with paste, it may be made in a very slow oven. Beef Tea from Fresh Meat (Baron LiEBiG s Recipe).—Take one pound of lean beef, entirely free from fat and sinew; mince it finely and mix it well with one pint of cold water. Put it on the hob, and let it remain heating very gradually for two hours. At the end of that time, add half a tea-spoonful of salt and boil gently for ten minutes. Remove the scum as it rises. This is beef tea pure and aimple. When a change of flavour is required, it is a good plan to take one pound of meat composed of equal parts of veal, mutton, and beef, and proceed as above. Or, instead of using water, boil a carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a clove, in a pint of water, and when the flavour is extracted strain the liquid through a fine sieve; let it get quite cold, and pour it upon the minced meat, soaking and boiling it for the same time Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for one pint of beef tea. Beef Tea of Mixed Meat.—To some invalids the taste of beef tea is unwelcome; the fiavour is much improved by the following mixture :—Take equal quantities of bee^ mutton, and veal, one pound of each, without fat, put them, cut up in small pieces, to simmei four hours in three pints of water. When boil- ing, sldm thoroughly and draw the saucepan aside, that it may only extract the juices without wasting the liquid. Strain and serve with dry toast in any form. Time, four hours. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Beef Tea, Strong.—AUow two pounds of lean meat to one quart of water, put it into a jar and place it in a pan of boiling water. The meat should be well cut up, and the top of the jar secured so that no water may enter. Boil gently for four or five hours, strain and squeeze out all the tea. This may be flavoured with onion, clove, &c., according to the taste of the invalid and strength of the stomach. Sufficient to make a pint of tea. Beef to imitate Venison.—Take three pounds of rump, sirloin, or buttock, without bone —the loin is best. Lay it in a pan and throw