HEB, HEB (316) sufficient clai-ified butter over them to cover them completely, and keep in a cool place. Time, two houi-s to bake. Probable cost of herrings, 9d. per doaon. Sufficient, half a dozen for three peraons. Herrings, Bed, Broiled. — Soak a couple of red herrings in a little warm water. This is \mnecessary for fresh Yarmouth Bloaters. Dry them well with a cloth, make four or five incisions crosswise on the back, dredge a little flour over them, and put them on a gridu-on about six inches above a clear tire, or toast them before the fire. This fish may be opened at the back aad rubbed inside with a little cold butter, if this is liked. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for two persons. Herrings, Bed, Broiled (another way). •—Cut off the heads and tails; open the fish, and poui- over them a little hot beer. When it is cold, wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and toast them before the fire imtil they are hot through. Time, half an hour to soak. Pro- bable cost, l^d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Herrings, Bed, Broiled (another way).—Take off the heads and tails, split the herrings open, and take out the backbones. Beat an egg, stir into it a tea-spoonful of clari- fied butter. Dip the fish into this, and sprinkle over them, rather thickly, finely-grated bread- crumbs, seasoned with a little pepper and pow- dered herbs. Broil them on a gridiron about six inches above a clear fire, and serve them on hot toast. Time, five minutes to broil. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Herrings, Bed, Buffed (a Scotch dish). —Soak pickled herrings in water until the salt is almost extracted. Push a stick through the eyes, and hang the fish in the sun or wind to dry. When wanted for use, broil or boil them like fresh herrings. Time, two days to soak. Probable cost, Id. or l^d. each. Sufficient, half a dozen for two or three persons. Herrings, Bed, Choosing.—Choose a fish which is plump, but not too full of roe. Large-roed fish are sure to be oily, and in all probabihty are not satisfactorily salted. The body should be firm, the flesh red, the roe well set, and the smell sweet. If too salt, the fish should be soaked in warm water a few hours before being cooked. It is well, however, to pull a few of the fins out of the back, and taste them, in order to ascertain whether it is too highly salted or not. Herrings, Bed, Mock Anchovy Toast of.—Cut the head and tail from a red herring, and let it soak in boiling water for five or ten minutes. Drain it, peel off the skin, open it, and take out as many of the bones as possible. Cut one half into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and the other half into small squares. Divide a round of hot buttered toast into quarters, and place a square of herring- flesh on each quarter, and round it one of the nsirrow slices. This will give mock anchovy toast. Place the pieces of herring between bread and butter, instead of upon toast, and you will have mock anchovy sandwiches. It will take about ten minutes to soak the herring. Probable cost, 14d. each. Sufficient for one person. Herrings, Salted at Home.—Procure the herrings as fresh as possible. Scale, gut, and clean, but do not wash them. Leave the roes in the fish. Make a brine strong enough to float an egg. Put the herrings in this, and let them lie fourteen or sixteen hours. Drain them well, and put them into jars, with a thick layer of salt under them, and salt between each row of herrings. Cover tightly, to keep them free from air. When wanted for use, soak the fish in a little milk, and boil or broil them in the usual way. Herrings, Salted, with Potatoes.— Take two or thi-ee salted herrings, which have been washed and dried, and put them into a quart stone jar, nearly filled with sliced raw potatoes. Pour a little water over, and bake in a moderate oven until the potatoes are done. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings, Sauce for.—Herrings are generally served without sauce. When fresh ones are cooked a little may be required, and then either parsley and butter, anchovy, or caper sauce may be sent to table with the fish ; or the following sauce:—Stir a table-sj)Oonful of mixed mustard into a pint of melted butter. A table-spoonful of finely-chopped mixed pickles may be substituted for the mustard. Boil for five minutes, add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and serve. Probable cost, Sd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Herrings, Sauce of, for Fish (a German recipe).—Put an ounce of butter into a stew- pan with two finely-minced shallots. Let them remain over a gentle fire until tender, then thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, and, when smooth, add half a pint of fish stoclr or water, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and two bay-leaves. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain the sauce, and mix with it the flesh of a salted and soaked herring, finely miuced, and an ounce of butter. Boil once more. Just before serving, and when the sauce is slightly cooled, mix in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Herrings, Smoked.—Clean and open the herrings, and lay them in salt and saltpetre for twenty-four hours. Drain and wipe them 6ry, and hang them in a row by means of a stick pushed thi-ough their eyes. Fill an old cask, open at both ends, with sawdust, put a red-hot iron in the middle of it, and place the herrings over the cask, which must be covered to keep in the smoke. Keep the heat as equal as possible. In about twenty-four hours the herrings will be ready. Probable cost of herrings, Is. per dozen. n ■^^I^i^^^ Smoked, To Prepare.- Cut off the head and tad from a smoked heri-ing and remove the bones. Cut the fish into slices about half aa inch in, thickness, and let them