( 410 ) MAT MAB half ounces of marrow and huttor, mixed to- gether until like cream, and add those ingrediontH to two wull-whiakod ogga. When thoroughly mixed, make into lunall ballH, luxd drop thoHo into boiling soup, or if intended as an accom- paniment to roast moat, into boiling water. Marrow dumplings may be seasoned to adapt them to the dish for which they are intended. They are much used in Germany, but are not much known in England, except in the western counties, where they are principally composed of suet, flour, &c. Time, twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for ten dumplings. Marrow Dumplings, for Soup.— Cut out the crimib of a ught roll, and soak it for a minute in cold nulk. Pour off the milk, and add two ounces of flour, half a pound of marrow, chopped, the yolks of six eggs, beaten to a froth, the crumb of a small roll toasted, and cut into small dice, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir all these ingredients well together, form them into small dumplings, boil them in weak stock, and afterwards add them to the soup. Time to boil, an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight persons. Marrow Patties.—Prepare as for Marrow Toast. Drop into boiling water, in which a little salt is dissolved, the marrow cut into small pieces, and boil for one minute. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a tea-spoonful of parsley, chopped, a tiny bit of shallot, half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Toss these ingredients lightly together until they are hot, fill the patty-caaefj, which should be already baked, and serve Time to prepare, five minutes. Marrow Pudding.—Arrange in layers, in a buttered mould, a quarter of a pound of bread, cut in thin shces, three ounces of marrow, chopped fine, an oimce of citron, cut small, and two ounces of pounded sweet almonds. Cover with a sauce made of haK a pint of milk or cream, three eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of sugar and nutmeg to flavour the whole. Boil for an hour, or bake for forty minutes, turn the pudding out of the mould, and serve with a little sifted sugar over it. The almonds may be left out, u \d raisins or currants substituted. Probable cost, with cream. Is. 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Marrow Pudding, Boiled or Baked. —Pour over half a pint of fine crumbs, prepared from stale rolls, three breakfast-cupfuls of boil- ing milk, flavoured with lemon-peel and grated nutmeg. Cover them to soak, then beat to- gether the bread, seven ounces of carefully- shred marrow, and four weU-whisked eggs. Sweeten to taste, and boil in a buttered mould, or bake in a dish lined with puff paste. Tune, two hours to boil; an hour to bake. Sufficient for five or six persons. Marrow Pudding, or Pat Pudding {nee Fat or Marrow Pudding). Marrow Sausages.—Beat up four eggs in a basin, leaving out one white. Add to them six ounces of captain's biscuit, previously soaked in boiling milk, and reduced to a pulp thiough a colander, two and a half ounces of almonds, blanched and shred small, eight ounces of mar- row, some powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, and salt and sugar to taste. Fill ordinary sausage-skins, and boil, h)ut leave space in the skins to allow of swelling. When boiled, lay the sausages on a sieve to cool, and when re- quired for use, brush them with dissolred butter, and heat them before the fire or in a fi-ying-pan. Marrow Toast—Take the marrow from the bone, cut it up, and parboil in salt and water for one minute. Drain, season with pepper and salt, and add a little lemon-juice and chopped parsley. Toss lightly together; spread the mixture on squares of hot crisp toast, and serve immediately. Marshmallow. — This is a wholesome plant, and very palatable when boiled, and afterwards fried with onions and butter. In seasons of scarcity, the inhabitants of some of the eastern counties often have recourse to it as a principal article of food. Marshmallow Water.—A decoction of marshmallow is efficacious in the cure of severe coughs, catarrhs, &c. Cut the roots into thin shces, and poar over them boiling water (about a pint to an ounce of the root), cleansing and peeling off the outer skin before infusion. The water may be flavoured with the squeezed juice and grated rind of an orange, and sweetened with honey or brown sugar-candy. Marsh- mallow leaves are eaten dressed like lettuce, aa a salad. Time, two hours to infuse. Marsh-Marigold.—When gathered be- fore they expand, the flowers of the marsh- marigold, if preserved in vinegar, with the addition of salt, may be used aa a substitute for capers. This plant is easily propagated by parting the roots in autumn, or by sowing the seeds about the latter end of summer; it requires a hvmMd soU, and a somewhat shady situation. Maryland Dough Nuts.—Break an egg into a bowl. Beat it well, and mix with it half a pint of melted butter, haK a pint of sugar, half a pint of sour milk, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cloves, and nine ounces of dried flour. ]\Iix thoroughly, stir in a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a tea-spoonful of boiling water, and work in another nine ounces of flour. KoU the paste to the thickness of half an inch; cut it into rounds, and fry these in plenty of boiling fat. Mary's Cup Pudding {^ce Little Mary's Cup Pudding). Mary's Pudding Aunt Mary's Pudding). Mary's Sauce Queen Mary's Sauce for Koast Meat). Mat^.—The Pariiguay tea-plant or mate is a native of the New World, and in some parts of South America is used as extensively tor