aRA GRE ( 278 ) bunch of parsley may be stowed with the broth; but if it is intended to bo put aside for future use, neither vogottiblos nor seusoning should bo added. Probublo cost, 'da. Sullicient for a pint and a half of gi-avy. Gravy,Veal, for White Sauce (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal from which the moat has boon taken, and saw it into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan, with two ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into dice, and two pints of water. Cover the pan closely, and sinunor very gently for thi-eo hours after the water has once boiled. Strain, and put aside until required. A small piece of lemon-rind, with a sprig of parsley and thyme, half a dozen peppercorns, and haK a blade of mace, may be stewed with the bones if a flavouring is desired. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy, "White, for Fish.—Take one pound of pike, or any other common fish, cut it into small pieces, and put these into a sauce- pan, with two pints of water, a small bunch of savoury herbs, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, fom- cloves, four peppercorns, and half a tea- spoonful of salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Strain, and when the gravy is wanted, mix a table-spoonful of flour, in a clean saucepan, with two ounces of butter. Beat with the back of a wooden spoon until the flour and butter are perfectly smooth, add the liquid gradually, boil altogether for a quarter of an hour, and serve. Probable cost, about 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Gravy, White Roux for Thicken- ing.—Proceed as for Gravj-, Brown Roux for Thickening, but do not keep the flour and butter sufficiently long on the fire to take any colour. This preparation is used for thickening white sauces. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient, a dessei t-spoonful of roux will thicken a pint of gravy. Grayling. —'.The grayling is a silver- scaled fish, pretty and palatable, found in rivers in the North of England. It often weighs as much as five pounds, though the more usual weight is from two to three pounds. It should be avoided in April and May, but is excellent in July and August, when trout is going out. It may be either baked or fried ; and in either jase should be scaled before it is cooked. Grayling, Baked. — "Wash, scale, and empty tne fish. Dry them; season them with salt and cayenne, and lay them in a shallow baking-dish, with three or four lumps of butter placed on them. Baste them now and then, and put a cover over the pan while they are cooking. Send them to table with sauce made of the gravy which runs from them, mixed vnth good melted butter. Time, about haK an hour. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, as graylings are seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Broiled. — Wash, scale, and empty the fish ; season them with popper and fait, dip them in oil, and place them on the gi-idiron over a clear fire for a few minutes. Servo on a hot dish, with the head and tail together, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. The fish should be small when cooked thus. Probable cost of this fish, un- certain, for the reason stated in the preceding recipe. Sufficient, a moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Pried.—Scale and clean the fish, opening it Mi little as ijosaible. Cut off the fins and gills, but leave the heads, and wipe them as dry as possible. Season with pepper and salt, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in plenty of hot dripinng, or lard, until lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and send them to table with crisped parsley in the dish, and melted butter in a tureen. Time, according to the size, from six to ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, the fish being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for two persons. Grayling, Sauce for.—Put a table- spoonful of sheiTy, or any white wine, into a saucepan, with one tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, the jmco of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered herbs, of which two parts should be parsley and one thyme, an inch of lemon- rind, two cloves, six peppercorns, and a shallot finely minced. Shake the pan over the fire for five or six minutes ; strain the graxy, and nux with it three ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream, or new milk. Simmer gently, stirring all the time, until the sauce is hot, but it must not boil. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Bean Pudding. — Take one pound of old green beans, put them into boiling water, and boil them until tender. Blanc£ and pound them, and season them with one tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Add the yolk of an egg, and two or three table-spoonfuls of cream; then boil the mixture in a buttered basin; turn it out before serving, and poiir over it some good parsley sauce. It should be served with boiled bacon. Time to boil, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Caps.—Take six or eight sound young green codlings, scoop out the cores without breaking the fruit, rub the skins with a soft cloth, and place the apples in a preserv-ing- pan, with vine-leaves imder and above, and as much cold water as will cover them. Cover the saucepan closely, and set it by the side of the fire. Let the apples simmer until they are nearly soft, but quite whole. Lift them out as gently as possible, so as not to break them; drain and dry them, and rub them with the white of egg, beaten to a firm froth.. Sift some pounded loaf sugar over them, and place them side by side on a tin plate in the oven until they sparkle like frost. Put them into a glass dish, pour a good custard romid them, and stick a pretty green sprig in the top of each apple. Time, altogether, one hour. Pro- bable cost, about Is. Sufficient for five or si?! persons.