BOI (73) BOW Boiling Pot.—Large iron stewpans in which hams, joints of meat, and soups can he cooked are generally caUed hoiling pots. They BOrUNO POT. arc made of wrought-iron or cast-iron. The former are the more expensive of the two, hut are at the same time more durahle, as they are hetter ahle to withstand the heat of the fire. DEEP BOILIK0 POT. These vessels should he washed out and dried as soon as they are done with, and when not in use should he kept without cover in a dry place. Prohahle cost of a pot to hold five and a half gallons, wrought-iron, £1; cast-iron, 7s. Bologna Sausage.—Take equal quan- tities of beef and pork, pound it to a paste and season it very highly with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and a little garlic. When this mixture is put into the skins, add a strip " two of fat hacon; it maybe boiled for one hour, or smoked for two or three months, when it will be fit for use. The Italians eat it in its uncooked state. Probable cost of meat, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage (another way).—Take a pound of lean beef or veal, a pound of bacon, rather fat, a pound of beef suet, and a pound of lean pork. Chop up very small all together, with a handful of sage leaves and a few sweet herbs; season to taste with salt and pepper, and press into a large, clean sausage- skin. Put the sausage into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and prick it over to prevent bursting. Boil for an hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage (another way).—Take two pounds of tender, streaky pork, chop it up with parsley and chives, and season with salt, pepper, and spices. Fill a large sausage-skin with the mixture, tie the ends securely, and boil it for two or three hours, pricking it fre- 'lucntly with a large needle to prevent the skin from bursting. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Bologna Sausage with Onions.— This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding; some onions finely minced, and sim- mered in lard until three parts cooked, being added to the other materials. Bonbons, Candied (a la Gouffe).— Heat one pound of sugar until it registers forty degrees, then cool it down to thirty-eight degrees, by the addition of some essence to flavour, either aniseed cordial, cherry water, maraschino, or almond may be used. Let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon \intil it forms a paste, when put it in a basin until wanted. Next, get a wooden tray about one foot square, and two inches deep, fill it with dry starch finely powdered, and stamp the starch all over with an ornamental cutter, leav- ing about half an inch between each interstice. Melt part of the paste in a sugar boiler, rub the spout with whiting, and fill the patterns in the starch with the sugar; let it dry for two hours; take them out, brush them to clear away the loose starch, place them in a candy pan, cover them with some syrup at about thirty-six degrees of heat, and cover with a sheet of paper. Allow the bonbons to stay fifteen hours in a drying closet, then break the top only of the sugar, throw off the syrup, put the bonbons on a wire strainer, and give them their finishing touch by letting them again dry in the hot closet. Bonbons, Liquor.—These articles of confectionery are prepared by boiling white sugar with water into a thick syrup, and then adding a Little spirit and any flavouring and colouring ingredients that may be required. To make these, a tray is filled with finely-pow- dered starch. On the surface of this, impres- sions are made of the shape and size of the bonbons desired. These hollow spaces fire then filled with the syrup. More powdered starch is next sprinkled over the tray, so as to cover the syrup. The tray is then carefully placed in a warm place for the sugar to crystallise. The sugar in the syrup contained in the mould soon begins to form an outside crust, which gradually increases in thickness, while the weak spirit, collecting together in the interior, forms the liquid portion of the bonbon. Bone, To.—The art of boning meat or poultry, though by no means difficult for those who have been taught it, cannot be acquired by verbal instruction only. It is necessary to take lessons from some one who understands it, and practice wiU do the rest. It is exceed- ingly useful, most of all, because joints, &c., when boned, are so much more easily carved than when served in the usual way, and also on account of the economy, as the bones taken may be stewed down for gravy, for which fresh meat would otherwise be needed. The family poulterer will generally do all that is required for a moderate charge. The only rules which can be given are—to use a 'sharp-Dointed Imife, to work with this close to the bone, and to use every care to keep the outer skin as whole as possible. Bones, Devilled.—Make a mixture of mustard, salt, cayenne pepper, and a little