^ cassell's cookery. p again hen removo the saucepan off the fire till tlie water gets nearly lukewarm then put the saucep.. on the fire again, and let it simrner, not boil, Jy the leg of mutton is done. The time of course varies with the siz , hZ one abou nine pounds should take about two houi-s and a half. Next let us inquire, ]V/i,i/ did we do this 1 The leg of mutton thus placed in boiling water has a rim round the edge hardened by contact with this boiling water, which causes the albumen to coagulate Were we to leave the leg to act^mlly boil for long, the whole would become hardened and consequently the mutton would be tough; but by removing the saucepan off the fire, we get the mutton to cook, surrounded as it is by a thin rim of hard meat not thicker than a thin sixpence, which hard i-im keeps in t/te gravy ami flavour. Now in making mutton broth we must proceed on exactly contr-ary principles Our object is to extract all the flavour we possibly can from the meat and get it into the broth, we therefore cut up the meat into small pieces, and put them into cold water, and let them simmer as long as possible without boiling; by this means all the juices of the meat gradually get extracted, and the soHd part of the meat that is left, after the broth is well drained off, contains scarcely any nourishment at all. I may here add, however, as some may possibly not know how to make muttm broth, that for invalids, to whom vegetables are forbidden, the proper proport?.6n8 for the broth are about two pounds of mutton and two ounces of pearl barley and a little salt to one quart of water. For ordinary mutton broth, when it is intended to be used simply as a soup, a couple of turnips, two leeks, a head of celery, one eaiTOt, a little parsley and thyme, should be put in with the meat to simmer; when all this is strained off, some pearl barley may be added that has been ah-eady partly boiled, and also a fresh turnip cut up into small square pieces ; these must be boiled till they are quite tender, and it will also be found best to pick out a few of the best pieces of the mutton before putting it in the water, in order to serve up in the soup. This same principle of which I have been speaking, namely, keeping in the flavour, applies to a large variety of dishes. For instance, suppose we want to have that good old-fashioned English dish, rumpsteak and oyster-sauce, how rarely is it that you get the latter fit to eat! Too often oyster-sauce is simply thick melted butter, ■with a few oysters in it that feel like leather, they are so hard. Now oysters are a great delicacy, and require great care in cooking ; I -will describe as briefly as possible how to make oyster-sauce, and at the same time explain the reasons for what we do. In the first place, if an oyster is boiled it becomes quite hard and uneatable; secondly, an oyster if put into hot liquid very quickly loses all its flavour. Suppose then we have a dozen lai'ge oysters. First of all have them opened so that every drop of the liquor is saved. Take off the beards, and place the oysters into a small separate basin, taking care, of course, that no little pieces of shell are left adhering to them. Next take half a pint of milk, and add to it the oyster liquor and beards, and put this on the fire to simmer gently. Here we see that, as we do not use the beards, our object must be to get what little flavour we can out of them into the sauce. Next strain off this, and thicken it with a little butter and flour previously mixed together. This is done by adding the butter and flour little by little, and stirring the sauce over the fire while it gently boils. As soon as the sauce has by this means become about as thick as cream, melt in about an ounce and a half more butter, and stir gently. Should the sauce appear to inin oily, it shows you have too much butter, and by suddenly checking the heat, and keeping on Stirling, the sauce will become all right again—a little piece of ice is the best, or a