LAD ( 862 ) LAM jam into each, and cover it with whipped croam. Tlio puffs sliould bo cold boforo tlio jam IS put into tliciu. Time to buko, an liour or more. I'loliiible coat, 8d. Sufficient for a dozen and a lialf pull's. Ladv Fingers.—Wliisk four fresh ef,'f,'s thoroughly, tlu^ whites and tho yokes separately. Mi.\ smootlily with tiio yolks three ounces ()f powdered sunar and three ounces of llour, add the whites, aud afterwards a quarter of a'pint of_ rose-wafer. Beat all togetlier for some minutes. ILavo ready a well-buttered baking- tin, form tlio paste upon it with a spoon in " lingers," three inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, sift a little powdered sugar over them, let them stand five or six minutes to melt the sugar, then put them into a moderate oven, and bake until they are lightly browned. When cool, put them in pairs, and keep them in a tin canister closely covered until wanted for use. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two dozen fingers. Lait Sltcr^ {see Milk, -Sugared, or Lait Sucre). Lamartine's Pudding. — Stew four large apples in a little water, with a small piece of cinnamon, until they aie tender, but un- broken. Take them up, drain them, and beat them with a fork. Let them get cold, then mix with them the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, well beaten, a little pounded sugar, two or three drops of vanilla, two ounces of fresh butter, and three-quarters of a pint of cream or good milk. Line a pie-dish with good puff paste. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Strew sifted sugar over before serving. Apricots may be substituted for the apples in this recipe. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, when made with milk. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb.—House lamb (by which is meant lamb born in the middle of winter, reared under LAMB, JOINTED. Bhelter, and feJ, in a great measure, upon milk) is considered a great deHwicy. It may be ob- tained from Cln i"fcmas to Lady Day. At Easter, g.Ta83 lamb, o* ttuub brought up out of doors, and fed upon grass, comes into season. Like all young auiiiuils, Limb ought to be thoroughly cooked, or it is most unwholesome. Tho joint should not be taken from the fire until tli. gravy drops from it. Lamb is u/sually cut iiit<. quarters, and of these the fore-quarter, which consists of the shoulder (3), tho breast (.0),an(i the neck (4), is considered the best. It should be cooked fresh, and its quahty may be easily tested by tho appearance of the v(;in of th(- neck, which should be ruddy or of a bluiiih colour. It is g(!neriilly roasted, though in very young lamb, the leg, which is frequently Berved by itself, and makes a useful and excellent joint, may be boiled and sent to table with white sauce. Tho hind-quarter, consisting of the leg (1) and loin (2), is better foi- hanging two or three days. As, however, lamb will not keejj woU in unfavourable weather, or for any length of time, it should be examined daily, and the moisture carefully wiped from the joints. In order to ascertain whether or not it is fresh, place the finger between the loin and kidney. Any taint may be easily discovered by the smell. The fat of lamb should be firm and light, the lean a clear faintish white, and also firm. If the fat be yellow and the lean flabby and red, the lamb is of inferior quahty, and wiU not keep. Where economy is a consideration, lamb should not be bought before it is five months old. Lamb (a I'Espagnole).—See Lamb, Cooked whole (sometimes called Lamb a I'Espagnole). Lamb (a la Milanaise). — See Lamb, Breast of. Braised (sometimes called Lamb a la lililan- aise). Lamb and Currant Pie.—Cut about two pounds of the breast of lamb into small, neat pieces. Put them in a pie-dish, and sprinkle over them a desert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and three table-spoonfuls of picked •urrants. Beat two eggs thoroughly, mix with them a wine-glassful of sherry, and pour them over the meat. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. A httle wliite wine and sugar should be sent to table -with this pie. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb (au Bechamel).—See Lamb, Leg of Stewed with Bechamel, or AVhite Sauce. Lamb, Baked, and Rosemary.— Butter a baking-dish, and lay in it one or two sprigs of rosemary and two bay-leaves. Place upon these any joint of lamb weighing four or five pounds, first seasoning it with pepper and salt. Put a quarter of a pint of stock at the bottom of the pan, and place two ounces of fresh butter, divided into small pieces, hero and there upon the meat. Put the dish in a moderate oven, baste the lamb frequently, and when done enough, skim the fat fi-om the gravy, and serve it strained over tho joint. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persoiiis.