MAC ( 396 ) MAC Loiling water Halted a littl(3. Drain in n. culandor, and havo read)' builing two (piarts of flwir stock. Cut tlu) macaroni into two-inch lcnjj;th8, or into ringH, and boil in tho Htock tor a low nunntos. Sond gratod I'arniofiau to taldo on a dish. Probahlo cost, Is. Gd. in'V ([uart. Sutticicnt for ciglit porsons. Macaroni Soup, Italian {wc Italian ^lacanjui Soup). Macaroni, with Chestnuts—Roast a dozen tine diestuuts in their slu'lls, peel and pound thoni to a paste. Season with a small tea- spoont'ul of salt, and put them with ciglit ounces of macaroni, previously boiled and drained, acoording to the recipe given for boil- ing macaroni, into a stowpan : add three ounces of butter and a large onion, uncut. Shake the Avliole well together, and stir round in the pan for ten or twelve minutes. If dry, pour in a table-spoonful of milk, and mix again until hot, when remove the onion, and dish the macaroni. Brown lightly in the oven, or before the tire, well covered with equal quantities of grated I'armesan and fine bread-crumbs. Butter should be run over the top. Macaroni with Tomatoes.—Boil four ounces of macaroni {see Macaroni, Boiled), but in veal broth instead of water. Skin four fine fresh mutton kidneys, fry them lightly in butter, lift them from the stewpan, and mince them finely. Make a gi'avy in the same pan, adding a dessert-spoonful of brown flour, half a pint of rich gravy, a couple of shallots, minced, and a pinch of cayenne. Stew the minced kidneys in this gravy for ten minutes, when part of the macaroni, which should have been kept wann, miiy be mi.xed and tossed in the pan for a few minutes to absorb the gravy. Serve turned out on a hot dish, an'ange the remainder of the macaroni on the top, and pour hot tomato sauce over. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for two persons. Macaroon Biscuits. — This delicate almond biscuit is easily made by experienced hands, but home-made delicate pastry is seldom so successful as when purchased of a respectable baker. After blanching and drying the almonds, a few bitter, say eight or nine, with half a pound of sweet ones, pound them in a mortar, with the whites of eggs added sparingly from time to time, and beaten previously to a firm fnjth. When well pounded and mixed, beat in also by de.grecs, six ounces of the finest sifted sugar," with tho white of another egg or two, until the mixture is of the consistency required, then drop it through a biscuit-funnel upon sheets of wafer-paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about eighteen minutes. A strip of almond may bo put on the top of each cake. Probable cost, '2s. Macaroon Biscuits, Bitter (a German recipe).—Pound four ounces of blanched and dried sweet ahnonds, and the same weight of bitter ones, with the white of an egg frothed and mixed in at two separate times while pound- ing, then add twelve ounces of fine sugar, and Another white of egg, and, when well mixed, another frothed white, and Htir all lightly together. Drop the mixture from a bihcuit- funnel or a tea-spo(jn upon some wai'er-pap(;r, and bake the uuicaroons a jwile cinniimon colour in a slow oven for about eighteen minutoH. Proliablo cost, 2h. Macaroon Cakes. — Blanch, diy, and pound an ounce of sweet and a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and cut two ounws into small bits. Wh(;n pounding the almonds, moisten with a tea-spoonful of brandy. Beat two eggs to a froth, and rub the ahnonds to a paste with them. Add to the cut almonds three- quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon. ISIix all together with the frothed whites of three eggs, and beat until the mass has become firm, when di'op from a dessert-spoon upon writing-paper, and mould into cakes about the size of a crown-piece. Bake these of a pale colour in a gentle oven for about eighteen niinutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Macaroon Jubes. — Blanch, drj', and pound six ounces of sweet almondij, and mix together eight oimces of powder(;d sugar, and a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Stir these with the frothed whites of four eggs to a paste. Butter some baking-tins, spread the paste thinly over, and bake in a slow oven. Wlien done to a pale colour, and while still hot, mould them round a stick about an inch and a half in diameter. Remove them when cool to a canister to keep crisp. Macaroon Pudding. — Soften eight ounces of macaroons by pouiing a pint of boilmg cream over them, and then covering them until cold. Break four eggs, yolks and whites sepa- rately, add to the yolks two table-spoonfuls of pow'dered sugar, and a glass of ram or brandy, and beat the whites to a froth. Beat the maca- roon.* smooth with a wooden spoon, mix in the egg-yolks, sugar, and brandy, and, lastly, just before baking, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs. Fill to about half some small cups, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of brandy. Macaroon Pyramids.—ISIake a strong cement by dissolving about two ounces of gum arable and half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded, in a wine-glassful of water. Stir this over the tire until quite dissolved, when use it hot. Have ready some macaroons, and fix a tin moidd where it ^\^ll stand finnly, smear it well with butter, and use the cement to cover the outside of the mould, which has 1)een buttered, with tin; macaroons. Commence from the bottom upwards, always remembering to see each row of macaroons firm and cold before putting on another. Remove from the mould when firmly set, and fill with whipjied cream or with crystjillised fruits. Probable cost of macaroons. Is. 8d. per pound. Macaroon Souffl6.—Dissolve four ounces of finely-powdered sugar in a small tea-cupful of cream, add two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and pour it, when on the point of boiling, over a quarter of a pound of macaroons. Have ready six eggs, well beaten, yolks and whites separately, stir the volks vi-ith an ounce of good fresh butter in hits into tho mixture when cool, and when ready to bakt-, mix the fi-olhcd