HEAC ( 399 ; MAGt Mackerel, Potted (another -way). — Choose fresh fish of a moderate size. Cut off the heads and tails, remove the bones, take out the dark brown bitter portion near the heads, and divide the flesh into convenient-sized pieces. Lay these in a jar, season with pepper and salt, cover with vinegar, and put shallots and bay-leaves on the top, one of each for four fish. Cover closely and bake gently for two hours. Serve cold. Mackerel Roe, Sauce of.- Get roes from the male fish (soft ones). Boil two or thi-ee for ten minutes in water, then pound them ^v^th the yolks of two eggs. Have ready some fennel sauce, or parsley and butter, into wliich stii- the mackerel roe, adding a little walnut ketchup, pepper, salt, and vinegar, if required. The butter must be thin enough to allow of the thickening quality of the roes and egg-yolks. Time, ten minutes to boil. Mackerel Sauce, Gooseberry {see Gooseberry fSauce for Mackerel). Mackerel Sauce, or Fennel Sauce. —Pick fennel from the stalks, and boil it for a minute or two in boiling salted water, then chop it fine. Mix and blend well two dessert spoonfuls of baked flour with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, put it into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling water, and stir until thick, add two dessert-spoonfuls of fennel, and serve hot in a tureen. Mackerel roes (soft ones) boiled and bruised well with yolk of egg may be added to the sauce, stin-ed in with the fennel. Time, ten minutes to simmer butter. Sufficient for a tui'een. Mackerel, Soused. — Boil, without breaking, two or three middle-sized mackerel, remove the bones, and split the fish carefully dowTi the back. Simmer gently in a pint of vinegar and water mixed, in equal quantities, a bay-leaf, half a dozen whole peppers, two Jamaica peppers, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Pour this liquor when cold over the fish : if put in a deep dish they will be covered with it, and should not be served until they have steeped some hours. Serve, with fennel as a garnish, on a flat dish. Time, fifteen miniites to boil. Simmer spice for five minutes. Mackerel, with fine Herbs.—Rub butter over a baking-tin, and cover the bottom with a mince of fine herbs, about a dozen small mushrooms, four shallots, and a little parsley, which should be first fried and seasoned with pepper and salt. Lay the fish neatly trimmed on the herbs, and cover with fine bread-crumbs; moisten with a little good gravy, or white wine, and put lastly some bits of butter over the crumbs. Bake in a gentle oven, and serve browned with a salamander; squeeze a little lemon-juice over. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Two mackerel will be sufficient for three persons. Mackerel, with Wine, Stewed.— stew three small mackerel or two large ones in a sauce made in the following manner:— Dissolve a piece of butter about the size of an egg, in an enamf^llcd stewpan; when melted Btir in a tea-spoonful of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a blade of mace, pounded, and, lastly, add little by little three glassfuls of burgundy. Sinuner the fish for twenty minutes or less, according to size, arrange them neatly on a. dish, stir a spoonful of French mustard into the gravy, pour the gravy over the fish, and serve very hot. Pro- bable cost, from 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Madeira Buns.—Put into half a pound of flour rather more than a quarter of a pound of butter, add three ounces of sifted sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, a small tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt; stir well together, and add two eggs well beaten, and half a wine-glassful of sherry. Bake quickly in patty-pans for about fifteen minutes. The above ingredients are sufficient for eight large buns. Probable cost, 8d. Madeira Pudding.—The beauty of this pudding depends on contrasting well the colours of the jams. Make a good butter or suet crust; roll it out thinly, cut in rounds—the size of the tin in which you intend to boil the pudding— several pieces of crust; put at the bottom of the tin a layer of crust, then one of light-coloured jam—say greengage—then another layer of crust, then a red jam, and so on until the tin is filled. Boil the pudding in a cloth for two hom-s and a half, turn it out very carefully, and before seri'ing sift a little white sugar over it. The tin should have a loose bottom, so that the pudding can slip out easily. It must be well buttered first. Madeira Sauce, Lumber Beef in {see Beef, Lumber, in Madeim Sauce). Madeira "Wine Jelly.—This very agi-ee- able and excellent jelly takes its name from the wine used. The stock for it is made from calves' feet, and precisely in the same manner as the ordinary calf's-foot jeUy {see Calf's Foot Jelly). To a quart of the jelly, clarified, add half a pint or more of madeira, and a glass of brandy; but as this will reduce the strength, a little isinglass, also clarified, say about half an ounce, will give it the necessary firmness. Time, one hour. Madonna Pudding.—Put thiee-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs into a basin with eight ounces of finely-shred suet, and the same weight of good powdered sugar. Beat up two eggs with a large table-spoonful of brandy, add these, with the grated rind of a large lemon, to the ingredients in the basin. Beat the mixture until it is smooth, with a wooden spoon. If labour be not spared in this respect, the pudding will be a success. FLU a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, plunge into boiling water, and boil four hours. Probable cost, about Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Madras Curry {sec Curr^'-, Madras). Magdalen Cake.—Boat well ten fresh eggs, and again beat with them eight ounces of finely-powdered sugar. Turn six ounces of butter to a cream with the hand, and mix the eggs very gradually with it; lastly, add, hghtiv and at intervals, steadily stirring the mixture.