( 426 ) MOL Miser's Sauce. — Minco somo young onions, a littlo puisloy, wliicli sliould bo firat Bciildcd, and grato a doHMort-Hpoonful of horso- radish. Jlix thoso ingi-odionta witli an equal quantity of oil and vinogar. Shallot, chopped linisly, may bo usod instead of tho young onions, and molted butter instead of oil, but tho butter should bo well stirred to prevent oiling. Mixed Fruit Pudding.—Buttor a large tin mould, one that will holu a quart, and line it with stale tine broad, lirst cut into slices of about the fourth of an inch thick, and again ■with a tin-cutter, into pieces of a triangular form. This form will fit best into tho bottom of the mould, but long narrow- strips of half an inch broad will be best for tho sides. Have ready a syrup made by boiling a pint of cur- rant-juice with a pound and a half of loaf sugar, and, tho mould being now prepared, simmer a pint of not over-ripe raspbei-ries with, half the quantity of currants, in the syrup for a few minutes, when fill the mould while the fruit is in a boiling but whole state, and set the pudding to cool over ice; or it may be made the day before it is wanted. Time, twenty-five minutes to boil syrup; ten minutes to simmer fruit. Mixed Jam.—Boil together any quan- tity or kind of fruit—currants, gooseberries, cheiTies, or plums—with or without the stones, for half an hour; then add to every pound half a pound of moist sugar, and boil another half hour. It is an excellent jam for the nursery. We would recommend that all fruit should be stoned. ]\Iixed jam will keep six months. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is the staple soup of English life, to be met with in most of the dining-rooms and hotels, not only in London, but almost everywhere in Great Britain. As its name implies, it is an imitation of turtle soup, introduced to us by our navi- gators about one hundred years since. The essential point in mock tm^;le, must, therefore, be the "lumpy delight" fm-nished by calf's head; and the choice of the head should be a matter of some importance. It should be large, firm, and fat, full of brain, with good tongue and cheeks. As the prep..ration of this soup is a labour of love, and will occupy time, our recipe will run. in the order of arrangement. First, clean and blanch a calf's head, with the skin on. Take out the brains, and put tho head into eight or nine quarts of spring water. Bring it gently to a boil, skim frequently, and keep it simmering a couple of hours, by which time it should be sufiiciently done to remove tho bones easily. Second, return the bones to the pot, and add three pounds of fillet of veal, three pounds of leg of beef, cut into an inch and a half square pieces, three pounds of deli- cate pickled pork, also cut into small pieces, three or four slices of good sound old ham for flavouring, four large onions, sliced, throe heads of celery, a large bunch of sjivoury herbs, parsley, a few leaves of green basil, lemon thyme, marjoram, two bay-leaves, and stew gently, with good careful skimming, three full hours, adding stock to keep up the required fiuantity of soup. Tliird, while the stock is boiling, cut from the head the skin and fnt that adhoiea to it into nice aizablo pieces, and cut tho tongue into cubes of an inch square, the fleshy parta of tho hood into diamonda, dice, or any other slmpe. Make brain balls, or any other forcemeat, or egg balls. Fourth, when the stock has been sufficiently boiled, atraiu it from the bones, ic. (retaining only rich bits of meat), into a large clean stewpan; add the skin, tongue, (fee, and a aeasoning of cayenne and mace, Harvey's sauce, muslu'oom ketchup, or any other seasoning that may be desirable, Tliicken with four ounces of butter, kneaded in as mucli brown flom-, and sinuner gently for an hour, if tho calf's head, ice, requii-e it; but twenty minutes before servuig, add lialf a pint of sherry and the brain or other balls, button mushrooms (two or three oimces). Fifth, the best mode is to place the pieces of head, ice, at the bottom of the tureen, and strain the soup thi'ough a tammy-cloth; but if due care has been taken in the second stage of the prepara- tion, and the skimming has been constant and careful, this need not be resorted to. Sixth, serve with lemon on a plate, as some persons like the soup a little acid. (For half a calf's head take half the ingredients. This recipe is for four quarts. Mock Turtle Soup of CalTs Head (another way).—See Calf s Head, Mock Turtle Soup; also Turtle Soup, Mock, several recipes. Mock Turtle Soup, rorcemeat Balls for {see Forcemeat Balls, &c.). Modena Cake.—The lightness of this cake depends greatly on the mixing and beating together of the ingredients. Warm six ounces of butter before the fire until it is as soft as cream. Beat into it half a pound of flour, and the same of finely-sifted sugar. Have ready whisked half a dozen eggs (the}'' should be whisked from ten to fifteen minutes). Work the flour and sugar gradually and smoothly with the eggs. Add grated lemon-peel and thinly-sliced candied orange-pc3l to flavour; and lastly, beat briskly into the mixture as much carbonate of soda as will cover a shilling. Put the cake quickly into the oven, which should be moderately heated. The tin should be lined with a buttered paper. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to beat eggs; to bake, an hour. Mogul Sauce.—Mince ten or a dozen shallots, pour -vdnegar on them, and let them soak six hours. Strain the vinegar, about a pint; add the same quantity of mushroom ketchup, rather less than half the quantity of soy, a small tea-spoonful of cayenne, a dozen all- spice, some anchovy-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of mustard-secJ. Boil gently, strain, bottle, and cork the bottles tightly. Molasses.—This is the saccharine prin- ciple in the dregs or refuse drainings from tho casks, &.C., of sugar, and the uncrystallisable part of the juice of the cane separated from the sugar during the process of granulation. It consists of sugar prevented from crystallising by acids, and saline and other inatters. On account of its cheapness, molasses is much em- ployed as an article of domestic economy. It is considered verv* Avholesome, and cliildn'n are gcncr ally very fond of it. A French writer