APP ( 22 ) APP sweot wino with somo thiu lomon-riud iu it. Cover tho dish, and bako in a slow ovon. Tijiio to bako, thi-eo-quurtors of iin hoiu-. HuHiuiuiit, ono applo for each person. Probable cost. Id. each. Apples, Baked (anotlier way). —Take cijj:lit or uiuo good bakiiif^ apples: wipe them <.>arof idly, and place them iu a shallow eai-thoii- ware tUsh, half an incli apart. Put them in a gentle oven, cook them as slowly as possible, and do not allow them to bui-st. "When quite tender, set them aside to cool, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to bako, thi-oe-qiuirtors of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Allow one for each person. Apples (Baked) for Children—Take ix large earthen jar, and fill it to \vithin three inches of tho top with well-wiped apples of any sort in the house. Neither peel them nor remove the stalks. Pour over them, so as to cover them completely, a mixture of treacle or brown sugar and water. If the apples are windfalls, you may allow a little extra sweeten- ing. Put with them some pieces of orange or lemon-peel, and a few cloves. Cover the jar ; leave it for three or four hours in a cool oven. If the oven is too hot, the liquid will boil over or evaporate, and the apples be dried up or burnt. Probable cost, Id. each. AUow one for each person. Apples, Buttered.—Pare and core with- out breaking a dozen golden pippins. Cut pieces of bread in rounds large enough for an apple to stand upon, and place them in a well- tut tered dish with an apple upon each. Fill the holes vdih butter and sugar. Bake them in a gentle oven until tender, then put them upon a hot dish with a little apricot jam on the top of each, and cover with sifted sugar. Time to bake, thirty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Allow one for each person. Apples, Buttered (another method).— Place half a dozen good boiling apples, pared and cored without dividing, in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an egg. First put in the holes where the cores were a little sugar and a clove; stew them very gently, tui-ning them now and then, until they are quite tender. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with a layer of marmalade {See Apple Marmalade), lay the apples gently on it, put a little red currant jelly on the top of each one, and strew over them sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon. Time to stew, twenty-five minutes. Probable •cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apples, Compdte of.—Put half a pound of sugar into a pan with a pint of water and the rind and juice of two lemons. Let it re- main on the fire until tho sciim rises, then put in half a dozen large apples, pared, cored, and quartered. Let them simmer gently, leaving the lid off the saucepan, until the apples arc •clear. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six persons. Apples, Compete of, Baked.—Pare a dozen golden pippins, or any other fiiiely- flavoured apples, and core them without break- ing them. Place fhem in a deep diah with a cupful of water, a pound of sugar, and a few drops of the easunce of vanilki oi' lemon. Cover COMPOTE OF Al'l'LKK. the dish, and place it in a moderate oven until tho apples are cooked through. Take them out, place them in a glass dish, and serve witli' custard or cream. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for si.x persons. Apples, Frosted.—Take enough apples —pippms will be best for the purpose—to fill a dessert-dish. Simmer them gently in a pan of cold water, and a small piece of alum, with a few vine-leaves between and over. When the skins can be easily pulled ofl: with the fingers remove them, and have ready some clarified butter in which to dip each one as it is peeled. Strew with crushed white sugar, and bake in a slow oven. The sugar, if carefully done, will sparkle as if frosted. When quite cold place them on a glass dish, piling them high. They should simmer about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per dozen. Apples in Pastry.—Peel and core two pounds of apples. Put them into a pint of cold water with two poimds of loaf sugar, a little cinnamon, the juice of a small lemon, and a little butter. Bod to a pulp. Well oil a pie-dish; line it with good pastry about half an inch thick, and bake it in a qtuck oven. Place the apple pulp inside, pour custard over it, and ornament with alternate dots of red jelly and white of egg. Lift the pastry out of the dish before serving. Time to bake the pastry, twenty minutes. Sufficient for five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apples, Miroton of.—Pare, core, and slice half a dozen finely-flavoured apples. Place them in a stewpan with very little water, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and some powdered cin- namon, and let them simmer very gently until reduced to a pulp ; lay this smoothly in a dish. Then boil seven or eight lumps of sugar with a tea-cupful of water and the thinly-grated rind of two lemons: add a lump of butter the size of an egg, a spoonful of flour, another of brandy, the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one. Mi.x these well over the fire until quite smooth; pour over the apples; then whisk to a stiff froth the remaining whites of the eggs. When the custard is cold, pile the egg whites upon it, sift a dessert-spoonful of sugar on the top, and set tho dish in the oven till the surface is lightly browned. Suflicicnt for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Apples, Miroton of (another way).— Pare and core without dividing eight or nine finely-flavoured apples; cut them in mode- rately thin slices. Place in a saucepan a piece