APB APB ( 25 ) cultivated in this country, chiefly by grafting on plum-trees. When perfectly ripo it is a delicious table fruit, although it possesses quali- ties of a laxative tendency, and should not bo partaken of too freely by persons of delicate constitution on that account. A large variety of excellent made-dishes can bo formed of apricots, and for preserving purposes they are very valuable. The fruit should not be kept long after gathering, as it soon becomes insipid. The skin has a fine flavour, and if the apricots are prepared quickly after being plucked the perfume gives an agreeable piquancy to the dish. The finest apricot is the Moorpark, and the Breda is considered the best species culti- A-ated in the South of England. The fruit is in season in June and July. Apricot Brandy.—To every pound of fruit, take one pound of loaf sugar and a wine- glassful of water. Put the apricots, which must be sound, but not quite ripe, into a preserving- pan, with sufficient water to cover them; allow them to boil; then simmer gently till tender. Remove the skins. Clarify and boil the sugar, and pour it over the fruit. Let it remain twenty-four hours. Then put the apricots into glasses, and fill them up with syrup and brandy, half and half, and keep them well corked, and the tops of the corks securely sealed. They must be kept twelve months before using. They should be prepared in July. Time to simmer the apricots, about one hour. Apricot Charlotte.— Well butter a plain round mould. Cut pieces of stale bread—a round for the bottom and fingers for the sides. Fry them in butter, and arrange them in the dish, each piece overlapping another, so that the fruit may not escape. Pour in while hot a little apricot jam. In making the jam, allow half a poimd of sugar to everj' poimd of fruit, blanching two or three of the kernels and boiling them with it. Put pieces of buttered bread over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out carefully, and serve hot, with a little sifted sugar, or with a sauce made of the juice of a lemon stirred into a cup- ful of milk, and heated over the fire gentlj-, whisking all the time to bring it to a froth. If a richer pudding is desired, slices of sponge- cake may be substituted for the bread, and a custard served with it. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Apricot Charlotte (another way).— Butter an ordinary pic-dish. Put at the bottom a layer of bread-crumbs about a quarter of an inch thick, and then a layer of hot apri- cot marmalade, and repeat until the dish is full. Lay two or three pieces of butter on the top, and pour a cupful of cold water over the whole. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Apricot Charlotte (another way).—Put a piece of the cnunb of bread about the size of a penny piece at the bottom of a pint basin; then put five or six fingers of bread round it, leaving a little distance between each finger. Put in some apricot or any other jam, hot, a spoonful at a time, to prevent the bread leaving its position. Cover the top entirely with pieces of bread in the shape of dice, press it do^^Ti with a plate and a weight, and leave it until cold. Turn it out on a glass dish, and pour a little custard round it. Time to stand, a few hours. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apricot Chips. — Put one pound of unpeeled apricots, cut into slices, into a thick syrup made of two pounds of sugar boiled with a pint of water until it is neai'ly candied. Let them stand in this a couple of hours; then put them into a preserving-pan, and make them as hot as possible without boiling. Take them from the fire and let them stand all night. Next day remove the chips from the syrup, spread them on plates, and dry them. Time to remain in the candy, twenty-four hours. Apricot Cream.—Take a dozen and a half ripe apricots: pare, stone, and halve them, and place them in a saucepan with a cupful of sugar dissolved in a cupful of water. Let them simmer gently until they are reduced to pulp, when they must be pressed through a fine sieve, and put aside to cool. BoU a pint and a half of new milk or cream with three table- spoonfuls of sugar. If these cannot be easily- obtained, Swiss milk may be substituted, and will answer very much the same purpose, but it must be remembered that whenever this is used, less sugar will be required. Let it cool after boiling, then put to it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten. Pour this into a jug, which, must be placed in a saucepan of boiling wateir and stirred one way until it thickens. Add one ounce and a half of isinglass which has been boiled in a little water, and when the- cream is cold, mix the apricot with it; pour the mixture into a weU-oiled mould, and keep it in a cool place. If apricots are out of season, apricot marmalade may be used instead. Time to thicken the cream, ten to fifteen nainutes. Probable cost, 4s. 6d, if made with milk, and with apricots at Id. each. Apricot Custard.—Line a pie-dish with a good short crust. Spread smoothly at the bottom a layer of apricot marmalade about an inch in thickness, and pour over it a custard made of a pint of new milk, three eggs, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice, a little sugar, and four drops of the essence of almonds. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five- persons. Apricot Drink.—Peel a dozen apricots, and, after taking out the stones, pour on them a> quart of boiling water; allow them to stand for an hour, then strain off the clear liquid, and sweeten with a quarter of a pound of sugar- Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient to make one- quart. Apricot Fritters.—Make a light batter • by mixing a quarter of a pound of flour and a pinch of salt with a cupful of water, stirring briskly until it is quite smooth ; then add a cupful of milk, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, and put in at the last moment. Peel, halve, and stone a pound of apricots, draw them through the batter, and fry them in boiling oil or butter until they are nicely browned. Drain them from the butter.