BEE BEE ( 56 ) Beef Griskins (of Cold Moat, Roast or lioiliHl).—Tlui l)i(at of these arc tlio tliiu part of tho ril)8, tli(! lircast, or othur i)urtious of the bullock iu whifli tho fat aud loan are equally mixed. Finely chop one or two onions or shalots, some parsley, and mix tliom with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and oiled butter, which last nuist be kept sufficiently wann t() remain liquid. Cut tho bcof into slices about an inch thick; steep them iu tho above, turning them over from time to time. \Vlion they are well soaked, press them on both sides in broad- crumbs mi.\ed with a little grated cheoso. Grill them over a gentle tii-o till they are thoroughly heated, and nicely browned on both sides. While they are broiling, put tho butter, onions, &c., in which thoy wore steeped, into u saucepan, with a couple of table-spoonfuls of broth. Let it boil a few miiuiLcs, shaking it about; add a tea-spoonfid of vinegar and a table-spoonful of ketchup, and serve in a sauceboat with the broiled griskins. Beef, Hamburg {see Hamburg Beef). Beef Hams.—Take beer in quantity enough to mi.x the following ingredients:— Three ounces of treacle, one pound of coarse brown sugar, one pound of salt, one ounce of bay-salt, and one of saltpetre poimded together, and half an oxmce of coarse black pepper. Get a leg of beef shaped like a ham, lay it in a dish and keep it basted with the pickle, which should be thrown over it, at first, four times a day; during the second week it may be done only three times, and for the last fortnight twice a day, morning and evening, will be sufficient. In a month drain, dry, and roll it in bran; then smoke for a fortnight or three weeks It should be secured in canvas, and well washed with lime. Hang in a dry store. Cost of ingredients, about Is. Sufficient for one gaUon. Beef, Hash (a la Fran9aise).—Put two ounces of butter and a little flour into a stewpan: dissolve it, and throw in a Uttle chopped onion and « dessert-soooniiil of finely-minced parsley; brovm, but do not bum the butter. When sufficiently brown, add three-quarters of a j)int of good boiling broth, quite free from fat, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put in shoes of cold beef (two pounds), and allow it to heat gradually by the side of the fire. Thicken the sauce with a little more flour well mixed in a table-spoonful of water, or beat up three eggs mixed with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice; the thickening must be put in when near the point of boiling. Time, fifteen minutes to stew. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef, Hash. (Norman method).—Put into a bowl a large cup of boiling stock or broth, a wine-glassful of red wine, a Uttle salt and pepper or cayenne, and some lemon picldo ketchup. Fry about two dozen small silver onions in butter till they are of a pale brown colour; mix in two des- sert-spoonfuls of flour, and stir tiU it has become a beautiful amber colour. Pour the contents of the bowl into the pan, and boil the whole until the onions are done; then put some small, well- cut slices of roast or boiled beef into a clean atc-w-pan, and pour tho gravy and onions over them. Allow it to stand till tho meat has acqmrod the flavour of tlie gravy ; then make it very liut, ]>ut do not ftllow it to boil. (Surve (luickly. Time, twenty nuuutes. Probable ajst. exclusive of moat, lOd. Beef, Hash, with Croutons. — Take a pint of good stock, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, one of mushroom ketcliup, a glass of claret, and about a doz;;n silver button onions, which liavo been previously fried in butter and well browned. Put tho mixture into a stewpan with tho butter in which the onions were fried. Set it over a clear fire until the onions are tender, then pour it all over the slices of two pounds of cold beef to bo hashed. Let it stand about twenty minutes, well covered; then di-aw it nearer to the fire, but do not allow it to boiL Serve up with croutons. To prepare tho croutons: take two rounds of bread cut very thin, make them any desired shape, long strips, stars, or rounds; fry them in boiling butter a nice browTi colour, drain on a cloth, and serve. Probable cost, without meat, 7d. or 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Heart (see Bullock's Heart). Beef, Hung.—This meat should be hung as long as is consistent with safety to make it tender. Rub into the meat weighing, say from twelve to fourteen pounds, one pound of bay- salt, one pound of coarse brown sugar, and six ounces of saltpetre pounded and mixed together. It should be rubbed every morning, and will then be ready for smoking in a fortnight. Probable cost of beef, lOd. per pound. Smoke the meat about three weeks. Beef, Hung (another way).—This recipe can be used for beef either smoked or un- smoked. It may be salted dry, or put into a pickle made with the same ingredients. The beef must be hung for three or four davs, then rubbed with bay-salt, brown sugar, salt- petre, and a little pepper and allspice; after- wards hang it up in a warm but not a hot place, rolled tight in a cloth, for a fortnight or more tin it has become sufficiently hard. It may be hung in the comer of a cliimney of a wood fire to get the fiavour of smoke, or sent to a smoking-house. A small clove of garhc put in the pickle is considered an improvement. Time, two or three weeks to remain in brine. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Beef J Hunters'.—Get a nice round of beef, weighing about twenty-five pounds, and hang it for two or three days, according to the weather. When hung long enough, put it into a salting-pan, reduce the following in- gredients to powder, and rub it into the meat every moming for eighteen or twenty days, turning it at every rubbing:—Three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of cloves, one nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, one pound of salt, and half a pound of bay-salt. When salt enough, cleanse it from the brine, put a bandage round the whole ex- tent of the meat to keep it in shape, and lay it in a pan with half a pint of water at the bottom, and some shred suet on the top of tlie beef. Cover all with a paste composed of flour and water, and bake it for nhout six hours. Do not remove the paste until the heat has quite