GRO ( 283 ) GBO a walnut, will be required for each. Time, five or six minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for foul" persons. Ground Rice Pudding.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, with half an inch of stick cinnamon, or the thin rind of a lemon, or two Liui-el-leaves. Let it remain by the side of the fire till the flavour of the cinnamon, lemon, or laurel, is drawn out, then boil and strain. Mix with the milk two ounces of ground rice, moistened with a little cold milk, and stir over the fire till thick. Pour out, and, when cool, add two eggs, slightly beaten, and if Uked half a wine-glassful of brandy. Bake in a well-buttered pie-dish, in a moderate oven. If baked too quickly, the pudding will be watery. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ground Rice Pudding, Rich.—IMix two ounces of ground rice smoothly with four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Add half a pint of new nulk, which has been boiled, with an inch of cinnamon, or the rind of a lemon. Stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, and add two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the pudding into a basin, and when cold, mix with it the yolks of three and the white of one egg, and a wine-glassful of sherry, or half a wine- glassful of brandy. Put some apricot, or any other good jam, at the bottom of a buttered pie- dish, cover with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Sift a Httle pounded cinnamon, or pounded sugar, over the pudding before serving. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the jam and wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ground Rice Souffl^.—Mix three ounces of ground rice smoothly with half a pint of new milk or cream. Put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, and the thin rind of a lemon, half an inch of cinnamon, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Stir quickly over the fire until the nulk boils, pom- it into a basin, and when cool, add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten. Butter a plain mould— and it is well to tie round it a band of white paper, also well buttered, which should be a good deal higher than the mould itself, so that if the batter rises much in the oven, it may not fall over the sides. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a firm froth, and add them the List thing. Beat the mixture fully ten minutes after the whites are added. Bake in a quick oven, and servo as soon as the di.sh is taken from it. Have a hot napkin ready to pin round the dish in which the souffle was baked, and let a heated salamander, or red-hot shovel, be held over it, in its passage from the kitchen to_ the dining-room. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Grouse.—Grouse abound on the moors of Scotland and the North of England, and are shot during the months of August, September, and October. The 12th of August is the tim©' fixed by law for the commencement of the sport, so that any birds used before that time are illegally obtained. Grouse should be allowed to hang as long as possible, the peculiar flavour for which it is so much valued being wanting if the bird is cooked too soon. After being plucked and drawn, it should be wiped, but not washed, and trussed like a fowl, without the head; though many cooks still twist the head under the wing. Grouse (a I'Ecossaise).—When the birds- are plucked and drawn, put three ounces oi butter inside each, but not in the crop; put them down to a clear fire, and baste plentifully. Lay a sHce of toast in the pan tmder them a few minutes before taking the birds from the- fire. Parboil the liver, pound it in a mortar, with a little butter, salt, and cayenne, and. spread it on the toast instead of butter only. Time, about half an hour to roast the grouse. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient, a brace for five or six persons. Grouse (a la Financifere).—Boil the livers of the grouse for ten minutes, and pound them in a mortar, with three ounces of butter, a shallot, finely minced, half a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same of pepper, two or three gratea of nutmeg, one table-spoonful of bread-crumbs, and four mushrooms. Stuff the grouse with this forcemeat, truss and roast, and baste them liberally. Put half a pint of good brown sauce {see Gravy, Espagnole) into a stewpan.. Add a quarter of a pint of stewed mushrooms, and a pinch of cayenne. Let all boil up together, and serve with the grouse. Time to roast the grouse, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. the brace. Sufficient for four or five persons. Grouse, Carving of.—Grouse is carved in the same way as a partridge {see Partridges, Roast, To Carve). The breast and wings are considered the most dainty morsels. Grouse Cutlets.—Take a brace of young grouse, split them in halves, remove the wing bones, and tuck the legs inside. Season them with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little hot butter tiU brightly browned on both sides. Dredge a little flour into the butter; add gradually a quarter of a pint of gravy espagnole {see Gravy Espagnole), season rather highly with salt and cayenne, simmer for ten minutes and serve with the gravy poured over the grouse. Time, fry tiU brown. Probable cost of grouse, variable, from 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient, a brace of birds for four or five- persons. Grouse, or Woodcock, Marinaded (a German recipe).—Hang the birds as long as possible. Pluck, draw, and wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and lay them in a marinade, made as follows :—Mince an onion, and put it in a quarter of a pint of vinegar, add a dozen pepper- corns, twenty juniper-berries, and three bay- leaves. Let the grouse remain in this three- days, turning them three times a day, and basting them frequently. Stuff them with turkey forcemeat, and lard the breasts with, strips of fat bacon. Put them down to a clear- fire, baste frequently, and serve with slices ot