BEE ( 55 ) BEE cold, garnished with pieces of the jolly, cut up into squares or diamonds. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Pricadelles are best when made with beef, mutton, and pork in equal quantities, and cut very fine, but either will do separately. If beef, take one pound and a half of nice lean meat, a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, six ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a cup of cold water, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together and turn out a round well-formed cake. Cover with raspings and cross over the top with a knife ; put it on a buttered plate and bake in a quick oven. It should have a nice rich brown appearance, or it may be half stewed and then completed in the oven. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, 28. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Pricadelles, Spiced.—Prepare the meat as in preceding recipe, adding a little more butter, some grated lemon, cinnamon, cloves, or spiced sauces to taste, and cook as already directed. The fricadelle may also be formed into small b«)lls, and fried over a clear fii-e. Time, one hour. Beef, Pricandeau of.—Lard about thiee pounds oi the rump or fillet of sirloin. Pound three or four cloves, six whole allspice, and two blades of mace. Mix a little pepper and salt with these ingredients, and sprinkle it over the meat. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of medium stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of savoury herbs tied together, two shalots, and" a little more pepper and salt. Stew the meat very slowly for two hours, when it will be done. Remove it from the stewpan and cover to keep hot. Skim all the fat from the gravy, strain, and set it over the fire to boil tiU it is reduced to a glaze. Then put it over the top, and send it to table with sorrel round the dish. Sorrel, like spinach, requires good washing and picking; put it into a stewpan with only the water that clings to it. Stir well to prevent sticking or burning; drain out all the water; this must be done effectually; add a little butter and some good gravy, and stew till done. A little sugar may be added if there is too much acidity. Stew the sorrel for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Beef Prico (Charles X.'s favourite dish).— Beat and lard a juicy, tender steak of two pounds; lay it into a close-fitting covered stew- pan, with equal quantities of water and vinegar. Add a little vegetable, particularly onion, and stew gently for two hours, but do not allow it to bum or stick to the pan. "When cold cut the meat into strips, smear it with beaten egg, and strew over bread-crumbs well-seasoned with pepper, shalot, and salt. Fry tiU it is of a light brown colour, which will be in about ten minutes. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Pried Rump Steak.—Cut the steak rather thinner than for broiling, and with a little fat. Put it into a hot pan of clarified butter or dripping, and turn frequently imtil done. Serve in about eight or ten minutes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little mush- room ketchup; or with a gravy made in the frjang-pan and seasoned with Harvey's sauce, or according to taste. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Beef Pritters,—Scrape one pound of meat from a piece of cold roast beef, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready a batter made with three-quarters of a pound of floui-, and about half a pint of water. Blend these two well together, and stir in a piece of butter about the size of an egg, which has been melted before the fire. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and add it to the batter with the scraped meat. Stir weU, and drop only a small quantity at a time into the pan, when the lard or dripping is boiling. Turn, that both sides may be brown. From eight to ten minutes will be sufficient to cook them over a steady fire. Dry, and send to table on a napkin. Probable cost, about 6d. to 8d., without meat. Sufficient for two per- sons. Beef Gobbets.—Cut two poimds of lean beef into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with water sufficient only to cover it, and allow it to simmer gently for an hour. Then add sliced carrots and turnips, a head of celery minced, and a small bunch of savoury herbs, with salt to taste, a crust of bread, and half a tea-cupful of rice. Enclose in a clean muslin bag a few peppercorns, three or four cloves, and a small blade of mace. Put the lid on the pan, and let the whole stew again for another half hour, or \mtil the meat is quite tender. Take out the crust, spice, and herbs. Place the meat on slices of toasted bread, pour the liquid in which it was stewed over it, and serve quickly, as the dish is best hot. Probable cost of beef, 1 Od. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef Gobbets (another way).—Fry some small pieces of beef brown in a little butter, but first season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Then put them into a stew- pan with some parsley and shalot finely shred, and stew them till sufficiently tender in a rich brown gT&vj. When nearly done, add a tea- spoonful of port wine and one of vinegar. Make a cover of grated bread-crumbs over the dish in which they are served; season them with pepper, salt, and a little butter, and brown with a salamander. Time, five minutes to iry; twenty minutes to stew. Probable cost, Is., without meat. Beef, Gravy, To Keep in Store.—Put four or five pounds of gravy beef, free from fat, into a stewpan vnth one pint of water, a carrot sliced, a good-sized onion, a head of celery, a thick slice of cooked ham, and a couple of cloves. Close the lid of the pan and let it stew imtil the water has nearly dried up, taking care that neither meat or vegetables get burnt or even stick to the pan. Then add three quarts of boiling water. Eemove the pan from the fire, but put it near enough to keep the liquid from boiling too fast. When well boiled and reduced to two quarts, strain through a sieve, and when cold take off the fat. This gravy wiU serve for game or poultry, and will keep good several days. Probable cost of beef, 8d. per pound.