MTJS MUS ( 432 ) thyme, of onch a handful; two handfuls of t'ldcr-Howors ; thirty ouucoh of Hoeds of ciir- dumou, bniisod; and ono oimco of barberries, bruised. When the liquor has coasod workiuf^', lill it up, and at last pnt into the hoKwhoad ten new-luid eggs; stop it up close, and in two years the mum wiU be lit for use. Mush of Indian Corn.—A rocipo for this wholesonie dish is given by William Cobbett, in his " Treatise on Cobbett's Corn." " You put," ho says, " some water or milk into a pot, and bring it to boil; you then let the (lour or meal out of ono hand gently into the milk or water, keeping stirring with the other, until you have got it into a pretty stiff state; after which you lot it stand ten minutes or a quarter of an hoiu-, or less, or even only one minute, and then take it out, and put it into a dish or bowl. This sort of half pudding, half porridge, you eat either hot or cold, with a little salt, or without it. It is frequently eaten unaccom- panied with any liquid matter ; but the general way is to have a porringer of milk, and, taking off a lump of the mush and putting it into the milk, you take up a spoonful at a time, having a little milk along with it; and this is called mush and milk." Mushrooms.—Of the mushrooms gene- rally oaten in England, and which may be pai-taken of with impunity, the chief is the common mushi'oom [Agaricus campcstris). " When eaten," says Dr. ' Lancaster, " this mushi'oom should be fresh gathered, as after keeping it acquires properties that render it liable to disagree. The Agarictis campestris may, however, be dried quickly, and kept wholesome for any length of time, or they may be powdered and thus kept. When salted fresh and pressed they yield the sauce known by the name of 'ketchup,' or 'catsup.' The mushroom gives a fine flavour to soups, and greatly improves beef-tea. When arrowroot and weak broths are distasteful to persons with delicate stomachs, a little seasoning with ketchup will generally form an agreeable change." The mushroom itself may be cooked in a variety of ways. Some roast them, basting them with melted butter, and serve with white wine sauce. They may be made into patties and added to fricassees. In France they steep them in oil, adding salt, pepper, and a little garlic; they are then tossed up in. a small stewpan over a brisk fire, ^vith chopped parsley and a little lenion-juice. The morel is occasionally found in Great Britain. In the opinion of fungus-eaters it is a great luxury. It is prepared in the same way as the common mushroom, but its flavour is more delicate. Ordinarily it is obtained from our Italian warehouses, but, if sought for about the Vjeginning of summer, it may not un- frcquently be found in our orchards and woods. Another fungus met with in English markets is the truffle. It is more uncommon in this country than the morel, but it is imported in considerable quantities from France. Truffles grow entirely imdorground, and tmflle-hunting dogs, and even swine, are trained to discover them. They impart a fine flavour to soups and gravies, and enter into the composition of Htufliiig for boars' heads, fish, and other kinds of animal food. In his valuable; work on the " Esculent Funguses of England," Dr. Badham remarks of the odours and tastfjs of mushrooms tliat both one and the other are far more numerous in this (tase of pLint than in any other with which we are acqiminted. Some of them give out ])owerfully disagreeable odours, whilst oth(;rs yield the; most agi-oeable of perfumes. The authority just mentioned enu- merates no fewer than forty-eight species of mushroom, all of which are good to eat. The great objection, however, to mushrooms, is MUSHROOMS. that some of them are very poisonous ; and mis- takes occur so often that only persons skilled in distinguishing the various species ought to be trusted for administering them indis- criminately as food. On the Continent pei-sons are specially appointed to examine all fungi sent to market, so that only those which are safe to eat are allowed to be sold. According to Dr. Badham, the majority of fungi are harmless, but his a«coimt of the poisonous eifects of the minority, and the post-mortem appearance of the organs of those who have died through partaking of them, are enough to alaiTTi the most stout-hearted. Mushrooms (Antidote to poisonous fimgi). —" All fimgi should be used with caution, for even the champignon, and edible garden mushrooms, possess deleterious qualities, when grown in certain jilaces. All the edible species should be thoroughly masticated before being taken into the stomach, as this greatly lessens the effect of poisons. "WTien accidents of this sort happen, vomiting should be immediately excited, and then the vegetable acids .should be given—either vinegar, lemon-juice, or that of apples ; after which, give ether and anti-spas- modic remedies, to stop the excessive bilious vomiting. Infusions of gall-nut. oak-bark, and Peruvian bark are recommended as capable of neutralising the poisonous principle of mushrooms. It is, however, the safest wav not to eat any of the good but kss common kinds until they have been soaked in vinegar. Spirit