-^^^^ cassell's cookekv. ■" ■ — — — 4 piigne wLeu held u\^ against the light, and one that is thick and cloudy, hi patent to ereiy. one. When kept for any length of time, beer should be laid on its side, but to ensure the beer being bright it only requires being kept upi-ight for i\ short time before it is opened, in a moderate temi)erature. If bottled ale is keiit too warm it is too frothy, and by no means invariably bright. On the other hand, »>eer exi>osed to frost is sure to be thick. Bottled beer consequently in summer-time should not be i)laced in an ice-chest, except for ten minutes or a quai-ter of an hour before it is oi)ened to cool it, but not freeze it. When, therefore, you have lx)ttled beer in quantities, always stand six or eight bottles upright, and as these are used replace them by others. Good beer will generally get bright in bottle if stood upi-ight for !i week, though a longer period should be allowed if the beer is only just brought in. In pouring out beer always have three glasses ready together, so that you can continue to pour without tilting back the bottle, as when this latter is done too often it will be found that the first glass is the only one that is bright. With regard to spirits, but little care is required in keeping them, as they are quite unaffected by variations of temperature, the greatest amount of cold failing to influence them. The only advice I would give you is—regard them as medicines rather than for every- day consumption, and recollect the remark of Adam, in " As You Like It," who iiccounted for his vigour as follows :— " Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty, For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood.'" COOKERY AS A BRANCH OF EDUCATION. Before bringuig these pages to a close, there is one subject remaining that demands our greatest attention, and that is this :—How far is it possible to impart even an elementary knowledge of the pi'inciples of cookery to the poor and iinedu- cated classes 1 There is probably no country in the world that has any pretensions to civilisation in which there is so profound an ignorance of even the rudiments of cookery as in our own. Indeed, the difference in the mode of life between a French family and an English one, in which say the goodwife in the former is allowed thii-ty francs and the latter thirty shillings a-week for housekeeping purposes is something astounding. In the former there is comfort and even luxury, and, in addition, money is regularly saved; whereas, in the latter, the week which commences with a hot dinner on Sunday usually terminates in the plainest kind of food, such as bread and dripping, and that too often obtained on credit. Again, amongst the English poor it will be observed that there is scarcely any variety of food whatever. The hot dijmer on Sunday is almost invariably the same. A bladebone of beef and a heap of baked potatoes cooked at that real ix)or man's friend—the baker's oven : the usual charge for baking being twopence on Sundays and three-halfpence on week days. Week after week the fare is the same—baked meat and baked potatoes : the one change coming with Christmas, and, like it, but once a year, when the goose " takes the place of the meat, the huge heaj) qf sage and onions being placed in a saucer underneath the goose to catch the fat. Again, in sending a rice pudding to the baker's, the baker's man is frequently obliged to take out some of the rice, as otherwise the pudding would be so close as to be barely eatabje, the rice having no room to swell. Sometimes a batter pudding is sent with the dish so full of batter that it would be certain to overflov^r w lien baked unless some were removed.