( 371 ) LEM LEM Lemon Creams without Cream.— Put the thin riuds of two, and the strained juice of thi-ee lemons into a pint of spring water. Let them soak for an hour or two. Add sLx well-beaten eggs, and foiu- ounces of loaf sugar, set all together over the hro, and stir constantly imtil the mixture thickens, but do not allow" it to boil. Strain it, when cool, into glasses. Time, a few minutes to thicken the cream. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Lemon Custard.—Put the thin rind of two lemons into a pint of cream, and soak until the flavour is extracted. Boil the cream, and pour it gi-aduaUy over the weU-whisked yolks of eight eggs. Kemove the lemon-rind, add a tahlc- spoonful of brandy, and two table-spoonfuls of madeira. Pour the mixture into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, and stir one way until it thickens. Serve either in cups or on a dish. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy and wine, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Lemon Custard (another way). —/See Custard, Lemon. Lemon Custard, or Creams without Eggs.—Strain the juice of two lemons upon two ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Soak the thin rinds of the lemons in a pint of cream, and when the flavour is extracted, boil it, let it cool, and pour it very gradually over the juice and sugar. Add half a glass of brandy, and serve either in a dish or in cups. This custard will keep for a day or two if put in a cool place. Time, a few minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a pint of custard. Lemon Custard without Cream br Milk.—Put the thin rind of two lemons into three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and soak until the flavour is extracted. Boil the liquid, and pour it gradually over the yolks of eight eggs which have been beaten briskly for several minutes. Strain the juice of the lemons over a quarter of a pound of sugar, add a quarter of a pint of water, and boil until the sugar is dissolved. Put all together into a jug, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir one way imtil the custard thickens. A table-spoonful of bi-andy and two table-spoon- fuls of madeira may be added if Hked; many think them a great improvement. Time, half an hour to make. Probable cost, exclusive of wine and brandy, Is. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Lemon Drops.—Strain the jjiicc of three or four largo lemons into a bowl, then mix powdered loaf sugar wuth it until it is quite thick. Put it into a pan, and let it boil for fiive minutes, stirring it constantly. Drop it from the end of a spoon upon writing-paper, and when cold, keep the drops in tin canisters until wanted for use. Or, take two ounces of powdered loaf sugar, mix with them the grated rind of three large lemons, and half a tea-spoonful of fine flour. Whisk the white of an egg thoroughly. Work it up with the other ingredients to a light paste, then place it in drops upon a sheet of writing-paper, and dry before the fire until the di-ops are quite hard. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Id. per ounce. Lemon Dumplings.—l^Iix six ounces of finely-shred beef suet v/ith half a pound of grated bread-crumbs; or, if preferred, four ounces of bread-crumbs and four ounces of flour. Add four table-spoonfiols of moist sugar, the choi^ped rind and strained juice of a large lemon, a beaten egg, and half a pint of new milk. When thoroughly mixed, divide the mixture into half a dozen parts. Put each part into a small buttered cup, tie it in a cloth, and boil quickly imtil it is done enough. Serve the dumplings hot. with a Httlo sauce made of three ounces of sugar boiled with the rind of a lemon, and the strained juice, and half a pint of water, until the sugar is dissolved. A glass of sherry and two or three di-ops of cochineal may be added. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Essence, Artificial. — Mix gradually a drachm of the best oil of lemons with two oimces of rectified spirits of wine. Cork secm-ely. Lemon, Essence of. — Choose fresh, sound lemons, -s^ ipe them well with a soft cloth, then take two or thi-ee large lumps of sugar and rub the yellow rind entirely off. Powder the sugar, put it into a glass jar, press it down, and cover it carefully to exclude the air, as the flavour' of lemon quickly evaporates.- Keep it in a cool diy place. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. A very small portion of the essence of lemon from the point of a knife will flavour a pint of custard. Lemon filled with Jelly.—Cut a small round about the size of a shilling from the stalk end of each lemon with a small sharp-pointed, knife, then scoop out the inside with the handle of a tea-spoon, and take great care not to injure the rind. Throw the skins into cold water for an hour to harden them, drain them on a sieve, and when they ai-e quite dry inside, half fill them with pink jelly. Place them in rows upon ice, and when the jeUy is firm, fiU them up with white jeUy, blancmange, or cream. Lay them on the ice once more, and, before serving, cut them neatly into quarters with a sharp knife. They sliould be arranged prettily on a glass dish with a sprig of myrtle between each quarter. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Floating Island.—Take half a dozen fresh eggs, separate the whites and the yolks ; beat the whites to a solid froth, sweeten them, and flavour with two or three drops of the essence of lemon. Beat the yolks, mix them with a pint and a half of milk, flavour strongly with lemon, and stir the custard over a gentle fire until it thickens, but it must not boil. When nearly cool, add very gradually a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour it into a glass dish, and pile the whites upon it. Garnish according to taste. A small piece of red-currant jelly placed here and there is an improvement, or half of the frotlx may be thickly coloured with cochineal. Time, a few minutes to thicken