HAR { 305 ; HAS three hours. Strain through a jelly-bag and boil it again for half an hour with the thin rind of two lemons and one orange: ^V^len cool, add the juice, half a pound of sugar, a wine- glassful of brandy, and the beaten whites and crushed shells of six eggs. Boil the jelly again for a few minutes without stirring, and strain it until it is quite clear. Half an ounce of isin- glass may be dissolved in it if it does not seem likely to stiffen. The above quantities are sufficient for nearly three pints of jeUy. Harvey's, or Camp Vinegar.—JMince a clove of gaiiic very finely. Add six chopped ancho^des, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, thi'ee table-spoonfuls of Indian soy, three of mushroom or walnut ketchup. Put these into a quart of the best vinegar, and let them soak for about a month, shaking them frequently. Strain through muslin, and bottle for use. The probable cost will be Is. per pint. One dessert- spoonful may be added to a pint of sauce or gravy. Hash., Beef {see Beef, Hash). Hash, Cold Beef or Mutton.—Cut one pound of cold meat into neat slices, free from skin and gristle. Put a large onion, finely minced, into a saucepan, and with it two ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour. Stir over the tire until the ingredients are smoothly mixed and brown, being careful that they do not bum. Add gradually half a pint of good stock or water, and the bones and trimmings, and simmer gently until the sauce is'as thick as cream. Strain it, put in the pieces of meat, and let them remain until they are quite hot, but the sauce must not boil after the meat is added, or it will be hard. A hash may be varied by the addition of finely-minced green pickles, a dozen stewed mushrooms, or hafi a dozen toma- toes, but these should be added to the sauce be- fore the meat is put in, so that there will be no necessity for its remaining in the gravy too long. Serve with toasted sippets round the dish. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of the meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Hash, Common.—Cut a pcund of mut- ton into thin slices. Season with salt and pepper, and dredge a little flour over them. Stew a finely-minced onion in half a pint of stock or water for thirty minutes. Flavour it with a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Put in the pieces of mutton, stew gently for two or three minutes, till the flour has thickened the sauce and lost its raw taste, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three persons. Hash, Superior.—Peel two dozen button- onions, dredge them with flour, and fry them with two ounces of butter till they are brightly browned. Pour over them half a pint of good broth, add a little salt and pepper, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and either a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup or a few stewed mush- rooms, and simmer gently until the onions are quite tf>ndor. Pour the gravy over the slices of meat, and let them remain until roquirod. Put tho contor.tg of tbe di$h into u .saucepan, and let them get as hot, as possible without boiling. Serve immediately. A glass of claret or port is an improvement. Tinie, an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat Sufficient for three or four persons. Hashes, Gravy for (see Gravy for Hashes). Hashes, Sauce for.—The following store sauce will be found useful to improve the flavour of gravies for hashes and rechauffes. Put four chopped anchovies, an eighth of a pint of vinegar, two blades of mace, a bay-leaf, two pounded cloves, a minced onion, a dozen peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a tea-spoonful of scraped horseradish, into a saucepan, and simmer gently until the anchovies are dissolved. Add half a pint of claret, simmer ten minutes longer, strain and bottle for use. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine. Hasty Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, add a pinch of salt, and, when the milk is just boiHng up, sprinkle some fine flour with the left hand, and beat well with a fork with the right, to keep the flour from get- ting in lumps. Continue until the pudding is like a stiff thick batter, which it will be when about half a pound of flour has been used. Let it boil five or six minutes longer, beating it all the time; then turn it into a dish with two or three ounces of fresh butter, and serve immediately. Unless the milk is quite boiling when the flour is first put in no amount of boiling afterwards wiU prevent the pudding tasting pasty. Treacle, sugar, thick cream, or jam may be eaten with this pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Pudding (another way).—Begin as in the last recipe. When the flour has been well mixed with the milk, add four well- beaten eggs. Beat all over the fire five minutes longer, and serve as before. Time, a quarter of an hour after the milk boils. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Pudding, Baked.—Mix two ounces of flour in a pint of boiling milk. Beat it over the fire till it is as stiff as batter, then pour it out, sweeten and flavour according to taste, and add an ounce of fresh butter. When cold, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Spread a little marmalade or jam at the bottom of a deep pie-dish. Pour in the mixture and bake in a good oven. Time, half an hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Hasty Pudding, Oatmeal {see Oat- meal Hasty Pudding). Hasty Pudding, or Farmer's Bice. —Mix a well-beaten egg with as much flour as it will moisten. Rub it between the hands until it is in small dry lumps, like bread-crumbs. Stir these into a quart of boiling mUk, and beat over the fire until the pudding is thick and smooth. Serve with treacle, butter, sugar, or cream. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hasty Puflfs.—Stir two ounces of flour quickly and smoctLly into half a pint of boiling