( 440 ) MTTT MUT minutes if thick, but loss if a thin one. A piiicti of giirlic, if the ilavour bo approved, iiuiy bo rubbed across the dish when hot, or it may bo rubbed lightly across the chop. Herve with plain or inuitre d'hotol butter. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sutticient, one pound for two persons. Mutton Chops, Grilled.—Shred somo shallot or onion, and mince some savoury herbs; put these into a stewpan wth a lump of butter. Have ready-trimmed chops from the loin of mutton, dip each one separately into the dis- solved butter, and cover quickly with finely- prepared bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Broil on one side for throe minutes, then turn on the other. The tire should be slow and oven, that the bread-crumbs may not acquire too much colour; by turning them several times the cooking will bo equalised. Serve hot, with a bit of plain butter on the top of each chop. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Mutton Chops with Vegetables.— Where vegetables are to be had fresh from the garden, and in plenty, the following mode of cooking chops will be found economical, as well as wholesome and agreeable to the palate:—Fry the chops, having first trimmed them into good shape, in butter, untU half done, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Have ready by the time the chops arc fried any seasonable vege- tables—asparagus tops, peas, celery, carrots, turnips—all cut as nearly the same size as possible, and stewed in a little good white broth. Make a gravy with the butter in the pan, after frying a little shred onion, thicken it Vith flour, and add it and the chops to the stewpan with the vegetables. Shake them well together over the fire until they are quite done, and serve with the sauce over and about the chops. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four persons. Mutton Collops.—Shred two or three shallots, a sprig or two of parsley, and a small bunch of savouiy herbs. Take a few thin slices from the leg or loin of mutton, as under- dressed as possible, and of equal sizes, sprinkle them with the chopped herbs, salt, pepper, and a little pounded mace; fry the collops slightly in butter, about two oimces, add a good cup of gravy, a piece of butter kneaded with a dessert- spoonful of flour, some chopped capers drained from their vinegar, or a little lomon-juice. Simmer for a few minutes, and serve quickly when done. Chopped gherkins may be uspd instead of capers. SufScient, one pound and a half of meat for four persons. Mutton (Cooked like Venison).—A fillet or neck of mutton, if prepared by being well hung (in cold weather, at least seven or eight days), and then steeped for a day or two in a mixture of vinegar and red wine, three or four bay- leaves, the same of shred ^^hallots, and half an ounce of black pepper and allspice, pounded and well rubbed into the meat before stooping, ^vill be found nearly equal to venison. WTien to bo cooked, it should be washed in wai-m water, wiped dry. and inclosed in a paste of flour and water, which should be removed a quarter of an hour before serving. Dredge lightly with flour, sprinkle with salt, and baste until of a light Itrown colour. Send good gravy to table in a tureen, seasoned only with salt, and unmoltod currant-jelly, on a plate. Mutton, Curried, Good.—Put four ounces of liuttor into a stewpan, and pound six nuddlo-sized onions in a mortar; add the onions to the butter with an ounce of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of flour, and half a pint of cream. Stir until smooth. Fry two pounds of mutton, cut in neat pieass, without bone. Lot them be of a light brovm colour. Lay the mciit into a clean stewpan, and pour the curry mixture over. Simmer until the meat is done. Time, two hours to simmer. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufli- cient, two pounds for four or five persons. Mutton, Curried, Plain.—For a curry of cooked meat, cut the mutton into thin slices, or into dice, according to the quantity of meat to be curried. Put two ounces or more of but- ter into a stewpan, and two good-si^ed onions, chojiped. Stir the onions in the butter imtii of a pale brown, add an ounce of curry powder, and the same of flour, with a little salt; mix and stir for five minutes, moisten with a cup of stock, and stew gently for a few minutes longer. Put in the meat, and simmer until done, ljut do not let it boil. Servo with rice round the dish. * Mutton Cutlets (a la Maintenon).— Put a heaped table-spoonful of finely-chopped shallot into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter, and simmer them for five minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of minced mushrooms and the same of chopped parsley, which should be first blanched and dried in a cloth; fry these and the shallot together for another five minutes, without burning them. Seapon with pepper and salt, and add some highly-flavoured meat- gravy. Have ready-trimmed mutton cutlets of two bones thick, the chinebone sawed off and one of the long ones removed. Split the meat carefully and neatly in two, nearly down to the bone, and insert some of the seasoning pre- viously prepared. Close the edges by folding the imder part of the cutlet over the upper, and broil on each side for five minxites, or imtil the meat is of a nice rich brown. Place the cutlets on a dish, and surround them with the sauce; pour the remainder over, and bake for about four minutes in a hot oven. There are other recipes for Cutlets a la Maintenon, but this one may certainly challenge comparison with any other, and it has besides the advantage of greater simplicity of preparation. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufiicient, a poimd and a half for two or more persons. Mutton Cutlets (a la IMinute).—The mutton for those cutlets should be ciit from the middle of the log, in the same direction as when carving for a dinner, but slice it rather thinner, •and season slightly with popper. Fta" the meat quickly over a brisk fire, to make it crisp, turn- ing it often. Let the cutlets be kept warm before the fire while the gi-avy is preparing. Have rciidy some nui.shrooms. chopjiod with fi shallot, a spiig or two of parsley and th\-mo