( 292 ) HAK BAL .them into a thin batter of flour aSid water. Cover thorn witli broad-crumbs, imd fry thoin iu hot lard or drippiuf,', until brif,'htly browned on both sidos. I'ut thoni on blotting-papor, t(j diniin the fat from them, and servo on a napkin. Garnish with parsley. Melted butter, anchovy Bixuco, or gravy piquant {sec Uravy I'iquant) may bo sent to table with thorn. Time, a quarter of an hoiu'. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. per pound. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Hake Soup.—Cut five pounds of hake into neat slices, and put these into a stewpan with a carrot, a tirniip, an onion, a handful of pai-sloy, half a blade of mace, two-tea-spoonfuls !)f siilt, one tea-spoonful of popper, half a irachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, and two quarts of cold water. When the soup has boiled a quarter of an hour, take out half the fish, remove the skin and bone, and cut into neat pieces, which must be put aside until wanted. Return the bones and trimmings to tho saucepan, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain the soup, thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a toa-cupful of new milk, and put it on the fire again, and with it the pieces of fish which have been put aside. Let them boil untU they are sufficiently cooked, which will be in a few minutes, and take ofE immediately, or they will break. Send toasted bread cut into dice to table with the soup. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six persons. Half-hour Dumplings.—Take half a pound of beef suet, free from sldn, and shred it finely. Mix with it half a pound of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and add two ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of currants, cleaned and picked, the rind of half a lemon, fijiely-minced, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and a table- spoonful of flour. IMLx thoroughly, work to a light paste with two well-beaten eggs, and a little water, if necessary. Divide the mixture into small balls, tie each ball in a small floured cloth, and boil for half an hour. Turn them out, and send sweetened sauce to table with the dumplings. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Probable cost, lOd. Half-pound Pudding (sometimes called Half-pay Pudding).—^lix half a pound of finely- shred suet with half a pound of flour, haK a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, and half a pound of grated bread-crumbs; add a pinch of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, four table-spoonfuls of treacle, and as much milk as is required to make these ingredients into a stiff batter. Beat for three or four minutes, then pour the pudding into a buttered mould, and let it boil for three hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, Is. Halibut.—This excellent fish is not prized as it ought to be, probably on accoimt of its cheapness. Its flesh is delicate and wholesome, and rather resembles turbot in taste. _ The halibut grows to an enormous size, weighing Bomotimes as much as a hundred pomids, but those fish are the best which weigh from twenty to forty pounds. The '' tit-bits'' an; the flackers over the finq, and the pickings about the head. It IB abundant in spring a.nd stunmer. It ia, wo believe, a favourite fiiih with the Jews. T. I Halibut, Baked.—Put the head and shoulders of a moderate-sized halibut into a weU-buttered baking-dish, dredge some flour over, and season them rather highly with salt, popper, and powdered mace. Put four or five good-sized lumps of butter i^Mjn the fijih, and bake in a moderate oven until sufficiently cooked, which will be in about an hour. Thicken the gravy which runs from the fish with flour and butter, and serve it in the dish with the hahbut. Shrimp or anchovy sauce may be sent to table with it. Probable cost, about 6d. or 8d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Halibut, Boiled.—This is the least satis- factory mode of cooking halibut. It is much better fried, baked, or made into a pie. Put five oimces of salt into a gallon of water. As soon as it is dissolved put in the fish, which must be in one piece, with the fins taken off. Bring the water to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently until the flesh of the fish will part easily from the bone. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send melted butter, and anchovj' or shrimp sauce, to table with the halibut. Time for a piece weighing four poimds, twenty to thirty minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Halibut Collops.—Cut four poimds of halibut into slices about half an inch in thick- ness. Sprinkle over these two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one of ginger, and two of chopped onions or powdered herbs. Put them into a pie-dish, with two oimces of dripping or fat, and pour over them a sauce made by boiling two ounces of flour with a pint of milk imtil smooth. An onion stuck with cloves may be 6ut into the dish with the milk, to flavour it. lake half an hour in a moderate oven, and send the sauce to table with the l^sh, first strew- ing over it two tea-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Halibut, Curried Slices of.-Take four pounds of halibut, cut it into slices tlu-ee- quarters of an inch in thickness. Leave tho skin on, flour them well, and fry in hot butter or lard till they are brightly browned. Have ready a pint of good beef stock, nicely flavoured. " Thickon it with a tablo-spoonful of cuny-powdor, and a tablo-spoonful of ground rice," mixed smoothly with a little stock, and