( 269 ) GRA QRA cold vinegar, and added to the rest wtile boil- ing. Put the spices at the top of the pickles, aud cover the jiirs closely. Fresh vinegar must be added when necessary. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Granito Claret.—Put the thin rind of two oranges in half a pint of water. Let it soak for two hours, strain it, and boil the water with half a pound of sugar to a clear syrup. Add the stmined juice of six oranges, a cupiul of water, and a pint bottle of claiet. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and move them round in the ice. As the imxturo freezes it should be loosened from the sides of the bottles, and then put into claret-glasses. Sufficient for two pints and a half. Granito Punch, Iced.—Kub the yellow rind of an orange and of half a lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar. Mix with them three wine-glassfuls of green tea, and the same of brandy, rum, syi-up, maraschino, and pine- apple syrup. Add the juice of two lemons, the juice of an orange, and a pint bottle of Champagne. When well mixed, freeze as usual, and serve in glasses. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for a quart. Granito, Roman.—Mx a pint and a half of strong coffee with a pint and a half of syrup. Strain through a silk sieve into wide-mouthed decanters, and freeze as directed in the recipe for granito claret. Serve in cofEee- cups or glasses. Sufficient for three pints. Granito Sherry. — Make a syrup with haK a pint of water and half a pound of sugar. Soak in this the thin rind of two lemons, and, in two hours, strain through a silk sieve, and add a cupful of water, the strained juice of six lemons, and a pint bottle of sherry. Freeze as directed for gi-anito claret, and serve in glasses. Sufficient for two pints and a half. Grapes.—Grapes are grown extensively in France, and made into wine. Those grown in this country are chiefly used for dessert, and are particularly welcome in cases of illness, being both refreshing and wholesome. The best way to keep them is to pick out all that are in the least decayed, and to pass a thread thiough the stalk of each bunch, then seal the end of the sjtalk, to keep it from drying, and place the fruit gently in a bag, made of thin paper. The mouth of the bag should then be closed, and secured with string. The grapes should be hung up by the thread to the ceiling of a cool room, and preserved at as low a tempera- ture as possible until required for use. Grape, Green, Marmalade. — Pick the grapes, put them into a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling water. Let them simmer for eight or ten minutes, but do not let them break. Take them out, drain them, let them cool, then press them through a coarse sieve, and add a pound of loaf sugar to every pound of pulp. Boil them gently for twenty miniites, pour into jars, cover with bran died and gummed paper, and keep in a cool place. Sufficient, one pound of fruit for one pound of jam. Probable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Grape Isinglass Jelly.—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a cupful of water. Put a pound and a half of ripe purple grapes into a saucepan. Bruise them with the- back of a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely. Strain them without pressure, through two or three thicknesses of muslin, and, when tho juice is clear, boil it, with half a pound of loaf sugar and the dissolved isinglass, for ten minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of brandy,, pour it into an oiled mould, and put it into a. cool place until firmly set. If the jelly is not clear, it may be clarified in the usual way. (-Sec- Calf's Foot Jelly.) Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclu^ sive of the brandy. Grape Jelly.—Pick some purple grapes,, put them into a saucepan, and bruise them, gently until the juice flows freely from them. Strain, without squeezing them, two or three- times through thick muslin, and, when clear,, boil the juice rapidly for twent}'- minutes. Add', a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of juice,, stir it until dissolved, and boil till a little put. on a plate will set. Put the jelly into jars, andl cover with oiled or brandied paper, and after- wards with gummed paper. Probable cost of grapes, when plentiful, lOd. or Is. per pound. A quart of grapes should yield about one pint', of juice. Grape-water Ice.—Take one pound of ripe Muscatel grapes. Rub them patiently through a fine hair sieve, and when the juice is all pressed through, pour a cupful of cold spring water over the dregs, in order to get all the goodness from them, and to prevent waste. Add one pint of clarified syrup and the strained juice of a fresh lemon. Freeze and finish in the usual way. Grape Wine, Sparkling.—Take the grapes before they are fully ripe, put stalka and fruit into a convenient-sized tub, delicately clean, bruise them until every berry is broken, and to every pound of fruit add a quart of cold water. Leave them for tha-oe days, Stir- ling them twice or three times every day. Strain and add thi-ee pounds and a quarter of lump sugar to every gallon of liquid. When this is dissolved, put the wine at once into the cask, which should be kept full to the bung. It is well to reserve half a gallon f oi- the purpose of filling it up as the fermentation subsides. In ten days add one pint of brandy and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass to everj' five gallons of wine. Keep the cask in a cool cellar. The wine should be bottled in champagne bottles when the vines are in bloom the following summer, and the corks must be wired down. Time, a fortnight to make. Pro- bable cost, 4s. per gallon, exclusive of the brandy. Grapes, Pickled.—Pick the grapes from the stalks. Reject any that are unsound, and put them into a deep jar with as much white- wine vinegar as will amply cover them. Tie them down with a bladder, and keep them in a cool dry place. They will be ready for use in a month. Probable cost of grapes, when plentif uL lOd. to Is. per pound.