( 281 ) from the fire thicken it with a small lump of butter, rolled in flour. Time, about one hour. Sufficient for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup (maigre, or without meat).—Boil half a gallon of water, with a tea- spoonful of salt, in an enamelled stewpan. Skim well, and throw in a quart of fully-grown fresh green peas until they are sufficiently tender, then press all through a sieve. Put the hearts of two lettuces, a handful of young spinach-leaves, a sprig of parsley, and a sprig of mint, all finely shred, and a large onion sliced, into a saucepan, with about a quarter of a poimd of butter. Let these ingredients stew gently for haK an hour; strain the butter from them, and pour over them the pulp, &c. Simmer half an hour longer. Just before serving add a pint of young green peas, already cooked. A sliced cucumber is often added to this soup, and is an improvement, but, of course, increases the expense. Season with salt and cayenne, and serve as hot as possible. Probable cost, 28. for this quantity. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Green Peas (a la Creme).—Boil a pint of newly-shelled, fresh yoimg peas in the usual way. Drain them in a colander until quite dry. IVIix an ounce of butter and a tea-spooiiful of flour smoothly together, over the fire; add a quarter of a pint of good, sweet cream; when it boils, put in the peas for two or three minutes, and serve as hot { as possible. Time, haK an hour, altogether. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Peas (a la Fran9ai8e). —Shell a peck of freshly-gathered young peas, and put the pesis into plenty of cold spring water. Add a quarter of a po\md of fresh butter, and work them well with the hand until they stick together. Drain them in a colander, and put l them into a saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, and a wine-glassful of water, if necessary, hut yoxmg peas seldom require water. Let them simmer very gently for forty minutes, or until the peas are tender; add two large lumps of sugar dipped in water, and, when they have heen taken ofiE the fire a minute or two, the yolk of an egg beaten with a dessert-spoonful of cold water. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Green Peas for Garnish (weGamish, Green Peas for). Green Peas, Puree of, for Garnish {see Garnish, Puree of Green Peas). Green Peas, To Boil.—Green peas, when gathered young, shelled just before they are cooked, and dressed properly, are amongst the most delicious of vegetables. If they are verj- unequal in size, they should be shaken through a coarse sieve, and the smaller ones put into the water ten minutes after the large ones. Throw them into plenty of fast-boiling water, to whicli a table-spoonful of salt has been added, and keep the pan uncovered until the peas are tender. Taste them to ascertain when they are sufficiently cooked. Drain the water from them. Put them into a clean pan with a slice; of butter, a little salt and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and toss them over the fire a mmute or two, then servo. A sprig of mint is often boiled with peas, this is by some considered an improve- ment, and by others quite the reverse. Great care should be taken not to put much soda witli peas. If the water is very hard, a tiny piece may be put in, but too much would quickly reduce them to a pulp. Time, according to the age and size: young green peas, fifteen or twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Sufficient for three or four porsons. Green Peas, To Boil (a German recipe). —Put a peck of green peas into a saucepan, with four or five young carrots scraped and cut small. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Cover the saucepan closely, and let them cook in the steam. When they begin to shrink, dredge two or three table-spoonfuls of flour over them, and shake the saucepan well over the fire till the peas are lightly coated with it. Pour a quarter of a pint of good gravy on them, and stew until tender. Cutlets may be partly broiled and steamed with the peas. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for four or five persons. Green Bavigote Sauce. —Take one oimce of mixed chervil, one ounce of green tar- ragon, one ounce of chives, one ounce of bumet, and one oimce of parslej*; pick and wash these ingredients, and throw them into boil- ing salt and water for two minutes. Put them into a cloth, squeeze the water from them, and poimd them in a mortar with half a pound of butter; mix them thoroughly, and put aside for use. When wanted, stir one ounce of the mix- ture into a pint of good bechamel or melted butter ; add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegtix, with six or seven drops of essence of anchovy, and serve. If the sauce is not sufficiently j greened with the herbs, add a little spinach-juice. Probable cost of thickening. Is. per pound. Green Sauce, for Ducks and Young Geese.—Put half a pint of green goose- berries into a saucepan, with a quaiter of a pint of cold water, and three or foiu- lumps of sugar. Let them simmer gently until quite soft and broken; then press them through a sieve, and retmn the pulp to the pan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, four table-spoonfuls of sorrel-juice, made by poimcling sorrel-leavcs in a mortar, and squeezing the pulp in muslin till the juice runs out. Simmer for a minute or two, then add a glass of sherrj'^ or Madeira, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3d., exclu- sive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Greens (a la Creme).—Wash and boil two young cabbages in the usual way; press' tnem oetween two plates to drain the water from them. EoU a lump of butter the size of an egg in some flour ; stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth, but not in the least coloured. Add, gradually, a quarter of a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Simmer for ten minutes, and serve poured over the cabbages. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes to boil the cabbages.