APP APP ( 19 ) cupful of Tnilk- or cream, and a littlo grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly, then pour into littlo cups previously oiled, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Turn them out, and servo ^-ith sifted sugar. Probable cost, lOd. Apple Puddings (Mother's).—Roll out two pounds of crust of good suet or drip- ping {see Crust Suet for Puddings), and let it be thicker in the middle than at the edges. Fill it -wath layers consisting of four table- spoonfuls of sliced apples, one tea-spoonful of linely-shred suet, and one table-spoonful of currants. When full, fold it over, tie it in a well-floured cloth, boU, and ser\'e with sweet sauce. Time to boil, two hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Puffs. — Stew some apples with lemon-juice and sugar until they become a dry jam. Make a light sweet crust; stamp it out in small rounds, with an inner round marked, but not cut quite through. Bake them in a quick oven, take a little of the pastry out of the middle, and put the apples in its place. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, one for each person. Probable cost, Id. each. Apple Pupton.—Prepare one pint of apple marmalade {see Apple Marmalade), and mix with it the yolks of five eggs, a handful of bread-crumbs, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Three ounces of stewed pears or chenies make an agreeable addition. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and bake it in a slow oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Apple Holls.—Chop a few apples Tery fine, and sweeten them with sugar. Lay three or four table-spoonfuls of this in the middle of a circular or oval piece of paste, rolled out a quarter of an inch thick. Fold it in two, lengthwise ; unite the edges, and press or scal- lop them with the bowl of a tea-spoon. Lay the roUs on a baking-tin that has been pre- v-iously greased, and put it into a moderate oven. It is a good plan to use apple marma- lade instead of chopped apples, as then there is no fear of the fruit not being sufficiently cooked. Time to bake, half an hour. Suffi- i cient, one roll for two persons. Probable cost, 2d. each. Apple Boly-Poly. — Shred very finely six ounces of beef suet, and mix with one pound of flour. Make into a paste with half a pint of water. Poll it out about the third of an inch thick, and eight or ten inches wide. Spread over, rather thickly, three pounds of apples boiled to a pulp and sweetened and flavoured. Leave half an inch of the edges untouched with fruit. Roll round, fasten the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Sauce, Baked. —Apple sauce may bo made by placing the apples and the water in the oven in a closely-covered jar until they are reduced to a pulp, and then beating them as in the next recipe. Apple Sauce for Roast Goose.— Pare, core, and slice four or five large apples; place them in a saucepan with only just enough water to keep them from burning. Let them simmer gently, stirring frequently, over a slow fire, until they are reduced to pulp. Turn them into a bowl, and boat them weU with one tea- spoonful of sugar, the squeeze of a lemon, and a small piece of butter. Time, half an hour to- simmer. Sufficient for a small goose. Probable cost, 4d. Apple Snow.—Reduce half a dozen applea to a pulj), press them through a sieve, sweeten and flavour them. Take the whites of six eggs, whisk them for some minutes, and strew into them two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Beat the pulp to a froth, then mix the two together. APPLE SJJOW. and w^hisk them until they look like stiff snow. Pile high in rough pieces on a glass dish, stick a sprig of myrtle in the middle, and garnish with small pieces of bright-coloured jeUy. Time to beat the snow, three-quarters of an. hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for a medium-sized glass dish. Apple Snow with Sponge-Cake.— Put four or five slices of sponge-cake into a glass dish, and pour over them first two table- spoonfuls of sherr}', and then a cupful of cream. Place in a saucepan five or six finely-flavoured apples peeled and cored, with a little water^ sugar, grated lemon-rind, and lemon-juice. Reduce them to a pulp, press the pulp through, a sieve, and beat it with the whites of six eggs vmtil it is white and frothy. Heap it over the cakes as high as possible, and serve immediately. Time to beat, about an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Snowballs.—Take half a dozen large apples. Pare and core them without breaking them, and place in the hollow of each a spoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and either a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a little grated lemon- rind, some nutmeg grated, or a clove. Boil a cupful of rice with a little milk till it is half cooked. Put each apple into a separate cloth with a portion of rice sufficient to cover it all