oasseLl'b cookery. xxxvi con- root for thickening, if care be not exercised the soup will be rendered the o. Bistency of a pudding rather than a soup. Recollect, in thickening soups, gi-avies, &c, the full efect of the thickening added is not felt till the soup or gravy has boiled up for a minute or two; what, therefore, is most requisite is that the cook should possess that quality which of all others I regard as a sine qud vion for success, viz., patience; and, to proceed to purges, I will commence with a remark that sounds like a proverb, viz., Patience makes the pur6e. I douljt if of all the trying ordeals a good cook has to undergo througliout the year, whether any is so trying as that of standing over a large wire sieve, wooden spoon in liand, endeavouring to coax the contents through. Let cooks, however, rest assured that this is not labour spent in vain. Take, for example, really good Palestine soup. We will suppose the artichokes, say a quarter of a peck, to have simmered and got soft in a couple of oimces of butter, and that proper care has been taken to prevent them getting brown. "We will then suppose them to have been boiled gently in say a quai-t of good strong white stock, and a bay-leaf added to improve theii- flavour. Now the whole must be rubbed through a tamis, or wii-e sieve, otherwise the soup will be poor. However, rub it through, and add half a pint of boiling cream, and you will have a soup that you need not be ashamed to set before the most particular person in the world. By-the-by, if the artichokes— Jerusalem ones, of course—are not very young, add a Kttle pounded white sugar to the soup at the finish. Carrot soup, turnip soup, vegetable-marrow soup, chestnut soup, pea soup, gi'een- pea soup, potato soup, asparagus soup, &c. &c., are all alike in one i-espect, and that is, tlae one secret of the soup being good is the amount of perseverance dis- played in rubbing the ingredients tkrough the tamis. In rubbing these ingredients through, the cook wUl often find it advisable to scrape the tamis or wii-e sieve underneath, as the puree will cling to the bottom of the sieve after being worked through it with the spoon. It will also be necessary from time to time to moisten the contents of the sieve with some of the liquid part of the stock that has run through it. However, much allowance should be made for women cooks, who perhaps, un- assisted by a kitchen-maid, have to prepare soups of this description. A consider- able amount of time must necessarily be spent, and a considerable amoimt of strength expended, in order to obtain a satisfactory result. In large kitchens, where a man cook supex-intends, and perhaps two or three ;y oung men assist, there is, of coui-se, no difficulty; but where only a woman unassisted has to manage the whole dinner, it should be the duty of the mistress to avoid ordering, as is often done through mere thoughtlessness, many dishes, all of which require a cei-tain amount of manual labour in their preparation. For instance, green-pea soup, whipped cream, and mayonnaise sauce in one dinner woidd overtask probably the powers of any woman cook unassisted. Most of these vegetable soups and purees are very much improved by the addition of cream, and it will be generally found that boiling cream is oi-dered to be added. This distinction is important: not merely is the risk of curdling avoided, but the flavour is difi'erent. All know, for instance, how difierent coffee tastes that has had boiling milk added to it instead of ordinary milk. Just so with cream- when cream is used to be added to soup of any description, boil it separately before adding it. Now of course in ordinary private houses cream is far too expensive to be used often, and indeed in London to be used at all, except in small tiuautitiua.