NUN ITOY ( 461 ) Noyeau (another way—for immediate use). —Lxather quarter of a poimd of younj,' poach leaves on a di-y, sunny day. Put them into a jar, and pour over them two pints of good brandy or whisky, and leave them to infuse for a couple of days.' Add a S)-rup made by dissolving a pound of sugar in a pint of water. Let the noyeau remain a few houi-s longer, then filter it carefully, and it is ready for use. Probable cost, micertain, peach leaves being seldom sold. SuiUcient for three pints and a half of noyeau. Noyeau (another way).—Blanch and pound three oimccs of peach, apricot, or nectarine kernels. Put them into a jar, pour over them •;i quart of French brandy, and leave them in a warm place for three days, shaking them fre- quently; add a pound of powdered and sifted sugax'-candy, and let the liquid stand a few hours longer; strain, and bottle for use. If preferred, one ounce of French prunes with their kernels can be substituted for a third of the apricot kernels, or a little thin lemon-rind may be added. This is a very agreeable liquoiu', but, like many other preparations of the same sort, it is not particulai'ly wholesome. Pro- bable cost, according to the price of the spirit. ^Sufficient for a quart of noyeau. Noyeau (made with honey). — Blanch and poimd thi-ee ounces of bitter and one of sweet almonds. Put them into a jar, pour over them a quart of pure brandy or whisky, and leave them to infuse for thi-ee days, shaking them every now and then. Strain the liquid carefully through filtering-paper, and add one pound of loaf sugar dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and two table-spoonfuls of fijie lioney. Bottle for use. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the spirit. Sufficient for three pints of noyeau. Noyeau (to be stored six months before being used).—Blanch and pound three ounces of bitter almonds and two ounces of sweet almonds to a smooth paste. Put them into a jar, and pour over them one quart of English gin. Add the thin rind of a small lemon if approved, and let the jar stand in a warm place for three days, and shake it well every day. At the end of that time dissolve one pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of boiling water, add the syrup to the contents of the jar, and leave it forty-eight hours longer, shaking it every now and then. Strain the liquid carefully, put it into bottles, and cork it closely. The liqueur will improve with keeping. The best way to strain the noyeau is to put four or five thin pieces-of wood inside a funnel, then cover these with doubled white blotting-paper, and pour in the liquid. Patience will be required, as sjTup docs not quickly filtrate. French brandy may with advantage be substituted for the gin. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the gin. Suf- ficient for three pints. Noyeau Cream.—Dissolve one ounce of best Kussian isinglass in half a pint of water, ndd four ounces of loaf sugar, the strained jiuce of a small lemon, and one pint of thick roam, together with a little noyeau. The <iuaniity must be regulated by the strength of the noyeau, as well as by taste. Pour the liquid into a well-oiled mould, and put it in a cool, dry place to set. Turn it out carefully before serving. Time, half an hour to dissolve the isinglass. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for a quart mould. Noyeau Ice Creams.—Sweeten half a pint of thick cream with two ounces of sugar. Add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a glass of noyeau. IMix thoroughly, and freeze in the usual way. Time, half an hour to freeze the mixture. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a pint of ice cream. Noyeau Jelly.—Dissolve one ounce of best Eussian isinglass in half a pint of water. Add one pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup in half a piut of water, the strained juice of a lemon, and a glass of noyeau. Strain the joUy ' untn it is clear, pour it into a damp mould, and ; put it into a cool place to set. Turn it out on a glass dish just before it is wanted. Time to '.. clarify the isinglass, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the noyeau. Is. 8d. Sufficient for one pint and a half of jelly. Noyeau Jelly with Almonds.—Pre- pare one pint and a half of jelly according to the directions given in the last recipe. Blanch two ounces of almonds, cut them into thin shreds, and throw them into cold water. When the jolly is quite clear, put a little of it at the bottom of a damp mould. Let it set, then sprinkle half a tea-spoonful of the almonds upon it, and pour a little more jeUy on. Repeat untn the mould is fuU. Put the mould in a cool place, and turn the jeUy out when quite stiff. A little whipped cream may be put round it in the dish. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the noyeau. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Nuns' Balls.—Roll haK a pound of good pufiE-paste into a long piece about a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp it out in rounds the size of a five-shilling piece, lay upon half of these a tea-spoonful of jam, and cover them over with the other halves. Press the edges securely. Fry the balls in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Drain the fat well from them, and serve them, piled on a hot napkin, with pounded and sifted sugar thickly strewn over them. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Niuis' Balls (another way).—Prepare the pastry as in the last recipe, but instead of putting jam upon the rounds, put a tea-spoon- ful of a nnxture prepared as foUows:—Grate very finely a quarter of a pound of good cheese. Beat it well in a mortar, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, the yolks of three eggs well-beaten, and a little salt and cayenne. Fasten the edges securely, and fry in hot butter until lightly browned. Drain thoroughly from the fat, and serve hot, piled high on a napkin. Time, ten minutes, to fry the balls. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Nuns' Biscuits.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds, and five or six bitter ones.