( 162 ) COIN COL serve. Probable cost, 6d., oxclusivo of the cold incut. Sulliciont, two iiounds for tivo porsons. Collops. Scotch, White.—Prepare the veal as in tho last recipe. Fry it iu bacou-fat if it can bo had, if not, in butter, lard, or good dripping. When lightly browned, put it into a stewpan, cover it with good veal utock, thicken this \vith a lump of butter rolled in Hour, and add a cupful of cream and a glass of sherry. Simmer gently for twenty minutes in tlio gravy. Place tho moat on a hot dish, and pour tlio gravy over it. Time, five minutes to fry tho coUops. Sufficient, two pounds for five persons. Pro- bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold meat. Colouring.—i?> 'own.—It is a very usual practice with common cooks to make the brown colom-ing as it is wanted by burning a little sng-ai- in an iron spoon, and stirring it into the soup or sauce. By this means the flavour is almost sure to be spoilt. Much the better plan is to make a little browning, and keep it stored for use. It will keep for years. Proceed as follows:—Crush a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar to powder, put it into a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water, and stir it unceasingly over a gentle fire, with a wooden spoon, until it begins to acquire a little colour. Draw it back and bake it very slowly, still stining it, until it is almost black, without being in the least burnt. It ■will take about half an hour. Pour a quart of water over it, let it boil for a few minutes until tho sugar is quite dissolved, pour it out, and when cold strain it into a bottle, and store it for use. A table-spoonful of this browning will coloirr half a pint of liquid, and there will be no danger of an unpleasant taste being given to the sauce, &c. The addi- tion of a little claret or mushroom ketchup will often impart as much colouring to sauces as is required. AVTien it is wished to thicken the sauce as well as colour it brown thickening should be used. Green.—Pound some young spinach or beet-leaves. Press out the juice and put it in a cup. Place this cup in a saucepan of boiling water and let it simmer gently, to take off the raw taste of the juice. Before using it, mix it with a little finely-sifted sugar. Hed.—Two or three drops of cochineal will Impart a beautiful red or pink colouring. It can be made at home, and will not cost nearly so much as if bought at the shops. White.— Use pounded almonds, arrowroot, or cream. Yellow.—For a clear yellow, dissolve orange or lemon jeUy. For an opaque, pound the yolks of eggs, and mix it with the liquid ; or, add a little saffron ; or, soak the flowers of the crocus, which will not taste. Compotes, Syrup for.—The quantity of sugar used for the syrup in compotes must depend upon the acidity of the fruit. For rhubarb, green gooseberries, early apples, &c., we should recommend ten ounces of loaf sugar to be boiled gently with half a pint of water for ten minutes. One pound of fruit must then be put in and boiled gently until it is sufficiently cooked. Lift the fruit into a deep glass dish, pour the syrup round it, and servo. For apricots, plums, strawberries, and cherries, six ounces of sugar will bo sufficient. Exact directions can scarcely be given, as the degree of ripeness which the fruit has attained, and the state of the weather when it was gathered, must bo considered in deciding wliat quantity of sugar should be used; but we can assui'e those who have not been accuBtomcd to serve fruit in this way that it is most delicious and wholesome. The flavour of the fruit is pre- served, and a compote is always an elegant and agreeable addition to the table. Generally speaking, the larger the amount of sugar used the clearer will be the syrup, and the longer it will keep. It should be broken into lumps, not crushed to powder. Conger Eel —^Xho ' onger is comparatively little used in cookciy, rtiougii its flesh is whole- some and nourishing, and by no inean« mi- palatable. When caught, it is generally wasted, an unreasonable prejudice existing against it. It may be cooked m several ways, and tho recipes which were given for cod may be used for it. The head and tail are the best for soup, and tho middle may be boiled, stewed, cut into slices and baked, fried, or made into pies. Conger Eel, Baked.—Take a piece of conger eel weigliing about two pounds, wash it thoroughly, and stuff it with a good force- meat made with four parts bread-crumbs, and one chopped parsley, a pinch of thjone, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, a Httle butter, and the yolk of an egg. Bind the fish securely with string or tape, and put it into a deep dish half filled with water. Dredge flour plentifully over it, place little lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a good oven. Baste it often. When sufficiently cooked, take it out, thicken the gravy, and make it into any sauce you may like. Stewed tomatoes are very good served with it. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Conger Eel, Boiled.—Take a piece about twelve inches long from the thick part of a fine conger, tie it round with string, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover it, and two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, a jreakfast-cupful of vinegar, a bunch of savourj-- herbs, and about two otmces of butter or dripping. Let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Drain, and serve on a hot napkin. Send melted butter to table with it. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per poimd. Sufficient for six persons. Conger Eel, Pried.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly. Cut it into thick slices, and brush each slice over with beaten egg, then strew over them finely-grated bread-crumbs. Fry them in plenty of hot lard or dripping till thoy are brightly browned on both sides, and the flesh loaves the bone easily. When sufficiently cooked, lay them on blotting-paper to take off the fat; put them on a hot didi, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve ^^^th shrimp, oy-ster, tomato, or anchovy - sauce. Time to fry, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Conger Eel Pie.—Komove the skin and bone from two pounds of the middle of a conger.