OYS OYS ( 495 ) of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Oysters, Marinaded and Fried — Make a batter as follows:—Mix three ounces of flour very smoothly ^vith a well-beaten egg, add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of clarified butter, and one-eighth of a pint of luke- warm water. Open a dozen oysters, put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and bring them slowly to a boil. Take them out, throw them into cold water for a minute, then drain them and place them side by side in a shallow dish, sprinkle a Uttlo salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg over them, squeeze the juice of a large fresh lemon upon them, and let them remain in this marinade for half an hour. Dip them separately into the batter, drop them into boiling fat, and fry until they are crisp and brown. Serve very hot. Time to fry the oysters, six minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters, Mock.—"Wash and scrub well a dozen deep oyster shells. Mince the flesh of a Dutch herring very finely, divide it into twelve parts, and put one part into each of the shells. Place upon it a piece of boiled sweetbread, the size and shape of a small oyster, which has been dipped into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. Sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over the mock oysters, lay a piece of butter on each, and bake them in the oven, or put them before the fire for a few minutes until they are lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time, about ten minutes to brown. Probable cost. Is. per dozen. Sufficient for one or two persons. Oysters, Omelet of.—Mince well a dozen fried oysters. Mix with them half a dozen well-beaten eggs; season the mixture with a small pinch of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, and fry the omelet in the usual way, {see Omelet). Or, boat half a dozen eggs lightly, and fry them in hot fat until they are delicately set. Put three table-spoonfuls of oyster sauce into the centre, fold the omelet over, and serve on a hot dish. Time, five or six minutes to fry the omelet. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Oysters, Patties of.—Oyster patties may be served either hot or cold, and should be sent to table piled high on a napkin. They may bo either baked in patty-pans or made like small vol-au-vents. When patty-pans are used, line the pans with good puff paste, rolled out thin, put a crust of bread in each, lay on the cover, brush the top with beaten egg, and bake in a. quick oven. When the pastry is sufficiently baked remove the covers, take out the bread, fiU the patties with the oyster mixture, lay the covers on again, and serve. If made like small vol-au-vents, roll out some light puff pastry, half an inch thick. Stamp it in rounds with a pastry-cutter, two inches and a half in diameter, press a small cutter an inch and a haK in diameter on the middle of each round, to the depth of a quarter of an inch. This is intended for the lid of the vol-au-vcnt. Place the rounds a buttered tin, and bake them in a quick oven until they are risen and lightly browned; then take thom out, remove the smaller centre piece, scoop out a little of the inside, and fill the empty space with the prepared oysters. Put on the lid and serve. The oysters are prepared as follows:—Beard a dozen oysters, and cut them into small pieces. Put the liquor from the oysters and the beards into a saucepan, with an inch of Icmon-rind, a quarter of an inch of mace, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a small pinch of cayenne, and a pinch of pepper, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Strain the liquid, and thicken it with a dessert- spoonful of flour and haK an ounce of butter; mix with it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, then add the oysters, simmer aU gently together for half a minute, fill the patties, and serve. The ragout should be smooth, thick, and delicately flavoured, and should never be put into the patties until they are baked. Time, about twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dozen patties. Oysters, Patties of (another way).—Open and beard a dozen oysters, and cut them into quarters. Thicken the liquid with a salt- spoonful of flour, add a little cream, season it with a little salt and cayenne, and mix with it a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Let it boil, then put in the oysters, simmer them for about half a minute, fill up the patties, and serve. Time, twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for eight or ten patties. Oysters, Patties of,with Mushrooms. —Prepare and bake the patties as in the last recipe. Trim, wash, drain, and dry five or six button mushrooms. Cut them into small, pieces, and fry them in half an ounce of fresh butter for four or five minutes. Beard a dozen oysters, thicken the liquor vnth a tea-spoonful of flour, and pour it over the mushrooms, with a table- spoonfid. of veal gravy and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Season with a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated. Stir in the oj'sters, simmer all gently for about halt' a minute, fill up the patties, and serve. Time, twenty minutes to bake the patties. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient for a dozen patties. Oysters, Pickled. — Put the oysters which are to be pickled in a saucepan with their own liquor, and let them boil gently for ten or twelve minutes. Lift them out, put them into small jars, and cover them. Let the liquid settle, then pour off the clear part, measure it, and put it on to boil, with the same quantity of good vinegar, two blades of mace, a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and the thin rind of half a small lemon with each pint of vinegar. Boil this pickle for ten minutes, then take it off, and when cold pour it over the oysters, and tie them down carefully, or they will spoil. Pickled oysters will not keep more than a few weeks, and they should be put into small jars, so that the contents of one may be speedily finished after being exposed to the air. They should bo served in a small dish, with a littlo of the pickle strained over them, and a little