viii cassell's cookery. I have called attention above to the principles on which joints should be boiled, and I wHl now say a few words on an eciually important subject, namely the principle on which joints should be roasted. Just aa in the former case, so in the latter, the one point to be borne in mind is to keep in tlte flavour. Now in roasting a joint, perhaps some of you may tliink that to lose the flavour \h impos- sible. Such, however, is not the case. Just as in turning a steak on the gridiron you let out the gravy if you stick a fork in it, so in roasting a leg of mutton do you, to a certain, though not equally great, extent, let out the gravy if you run a hook right into the meat itself. There are ingenious machines made—which, however, are chiefly intended for haunches, particularly haunches of venison—by which the whole joint is surrounded by thin metal rods expressly intended to obviate the necessity of sticking anything into the meat. These cradles, however, are very rarely met with. Some little ingenuity will be sufficient, however, for the purpose in point. All practical cooks know the difficulty of hanging a leg of mutton or a haimch on the spit. After an hour or so the joint, under the influence of the heat, is apt to give, and the thin bone adjoining the shank breaks away. Now by placing a small piece of wood underneath the bottom of the joint, and fastening a piece of copper wire to either end of the wood, and bringing it up to the top or knuckle end, the joint is supported in a kind of cradle. The copper wire, however, is very apt to slip, but by tying two pieces of string round the centre of the joint, this difficulty will be overcome. Again, in basting a joint, that pai-t requii-es most basting which is least covered with fat. Should, therefore, you have a haunch in which a part of what we may term the breast had the appearance when raw of being somewhat lean, then slices of fat placed over it, and tied on to it, not skewered in, or a few sheets of well-oiled foolscap paper, will have the efiect of checking the heat during the earlier period of roasting, and consequently will prevent the joint from having the outside dried up, a fault too often met with. When the joint is very large, as, for instance, a haunch of venison, which may weigh perhaps twenty- five pounds, and consequently require five or six hours to roast, so important is it considered by good cooks to check the action of the heat in the early period of the roasting, that they cover over the haunch with a flour-and-water paste, by which means the whole joint gets thoroughly warmed through, and the outside is not burned, while the portion adjoining the bone is probably nearly raw. Of course, this paste must be removed an hour or half an hour before sending to table. The outside must then be browned, and at the finish frothed with a little butter and flour. There can be no doubt that the most economical institution in any kitchen is the stock-pot; and it is in this respect that our French neighbours show their enormous superiority over ourselves. It is obvious that the larger the kitchen, and the gi-eater the number of the persons to be supplied with food, the gi-eater vnW be the number of odds and ends that find their way back from the dining-room. In private houses it will be too often found that huge plates of what are ingeniously termed " broken victuals " are given to the dog, the greater portion of which, if placed m the stock-pot, would have been converted into most excellent soup. Now, it is unquestionably not agreeable to the English taste to use for culinary purposes bones that have been left upon plates. The economy of honing a joint—for instance, a loin of mutton—before cooking it, is very considerable, as the bones, which in tlie one case would have been left only half scraped upon the plates, are in the other converted into excellent soup.