( 335 ) when taked. Probable cost. 3d. per dozen. Three cakes arc enough for one dozen rusks. Italian Salad.—ItitUan salads comprise every variety of vegetables, cooked or raw, and meat or fish, though it must not be supposed that the difierent ingredients are heaped to- gether without due regai-d to harmony. We give here one of the best salads:—Slice a couple of cold potatoes and the half of a beetroot, and mix them with some boiled celery and brussels sprouts. Season with vinegar or Tartar sauce. Add any cold meat in small pieces, and serve as soon as mixed. Place the meat lightly in the bowl, and throw the salad mixture over. Crown the whole with stoned olives. Italian Salad (another way).—Pile the white meat of a chicken, picked from a cold one roasted, boiled, or fricasseed, in the centre of a dish, and shred a little lean ham to distri- bute equally amongst it. Veal also may be used cut in very thin slices about the size of a BhiUing. Siirround the meat with a wall of young crisp lettuces, small cress, or any salad vegetables in season. BoH some eggs hard, remove the yolks, and cut the whites into thin rings, which arrange in chains over the top. Pour over the centre any salad sauce, in which cream should predominate, and serve at once, that the salad may not get sodden. Italian Sandwiches,—Beat up the yolk of an egg with nearly a quarter of a ■pint of cold water, and make with it into a stift paste a quarter of a pound of baked flo\ir, into which two ounces of good butter have been rubbed, an ounce and a half of sifted sugar, and as much cinnamon as will lie on a shilling. Put this paste on a board and roU it out very thin (it should net be quite a quarter of an inch), divide it into strips of an inch in width, and from three to four inches in length. These strips must be first hardened. Put them in a cool, well-ventilated place. In the rueantime prepare the following mixture:—Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, with two ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet and twelve bitter almonds, mix them with the egg-froth imtil it is a soft smooth paste, when spread half the strips of paste with the mixture, and cover with the other half. Bake a pale brown. Time, four or five hours to harden, sixteen to eighteen minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Italian Sauce.—Fry six mushrooms and two shallots, finely minced, in an oimce of butter; when brown add a quarter of a pint of good stock, and half a pint of Spanish sauce. When the latter is not at hand, take haK a pint of stock, and a glass of champagne or other light wine. Probable cost, exclusive of wine, Is. Time to simmer, after the stock is added, twenty minutes. The above ingredients are sufficient to fill a sauce tureen. Italian Sauce for Boiled Beef {see Beef, Boiled, Italian Sauce for). Italian Sauce (Rouge ct Blanche).— Put the following ingredients into a stewpan:— Two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, one of parsley, half a shallot, the same of bay-leaf; add pepper and salt to taste. Stew them gently, with just enough espagnole sauce to moisten them, and thin to a proper consistency with good strong broth. Strain for use. For sauce blanche, moisten with veloute in the place of espagnole. Italian Sauce, White (another way).— Chop thi-ce shallots, a bit of garlic as big as a pea, and as many button-mushrooms as will fill a table-spoon twice. Put them with a breakfast- cupful of stock into a stewpan, add a large slice of ham, which should be minced, and simmer over a slow fire. In about half an hour add a quarter of a pint of bechamel; boil, and strain. Season with salt, half a tea-spoonful of sugar, the same of vinegar, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. The probable cost will be about lOd. Sufficient for a dish. Italian Steak.—Take two or three pounds of steak from the rump or fillet—let it be quite an inch and a half in thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with two or three ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, remove the steak to a baking-pan, with a tight-fitting lid (earthen- ware pans are always used for this purpose on the Continent), and fry two medium-sized onions, sliced, a shaUot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the same butter. Throw this over the steak in the pan. Add two large wine- glassfuls of port, and two breakfast-cupfuls of stock, with a root of celery cut into pieces, two pickled gherkins, four or five cloves, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Cover down the lid tight, that no steam may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly an ho\ir and a half, when put in a turnip and a carrot, whole, and close as before. If the roots are young they will be done in half an hour. Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top of the steak, which should be placed on a hot dish. Send to table with the gravy strained over. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Italian Sweetmeat.—Dissolve a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in half a pint of water. Boil it for fifteen minutes, adding when clear half a wine-glassful of orange-flower water. Take out a quarter of a pint of the syrup to cool. Hold over the boiling sugar a small funnel and drop the stirred yollcs (not beaten) of sixteen eggs gradually through, bo as to fall in balls; these when set must be taken out and drained. Blanch and povmd to a paste twelve ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, stir it into the boiling sugar, with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, simmer till the whole thickens, and rub through a sieve. Shred finely a quarter of a pound of pineapple, half the quantity of angelica, and six ounces of mixed candied peel; put these in layers with the almond paste and egg-balls into a buttered pie-dish, and pour over the top the whites of five eggs, beaten to a froth with the cold clarified sugar. Bake in a brisk oven, and turn out carefully. This sweetmeat is better eaten cold. Time to make, an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Ivory Dust Jelly (Invalid Cookery). —Put a pound of ivorv- powder into tlrree quarts of cold water. Place it on a gentle