Iviii cassell's cookery. them neatly. Should it be found that there is not quite sufficient, very often the ad- dition of a single bird more, which can be roasted on purpose, will complete the dish. Next take all the romainH—tlio carcasses, ti-immings, &c.—and put them on to boil gently in the remains of the gravy that was served with the game the day before. After these bones have boiled so that they come out perfectly dry, send tlie gravy and the small pieces of game that have fallen from the bones in it through a wire sieve— this will have the effect of thickening the gravy, and also of imparting to it a decidedly " gamey " flavour. Add to this sauce—suppose say half a pint in quantity, or a little more—about a wine-glassful of sheiTy. It is astonishing how this glass of sherry helps to bring about a complete alteration of flavour. This salmi sauce is now complete, and the joints of game have simply to be warmed up in it, taking cai-e, if the game was sufliciently cooked on the first day, that it remains on the fire only sufficiently long to warm it through and no longer, as otherwise the game would get over-cooked, and become hard and flavourless. We have recommended sherry to be added to the sauce, but at the same time would acknowledge the superior qualities of madeira for the purpose. Unfortunately, madeira has of late years been rarely seen, though I believe there is every prospect of its becoming more plentiful in a few years' time. Madeira can now be bought from respectable wine merchants at from 36s. to 48s. a dozen, and is a far cheaper wine in quality than any sherry that can be bought at the same price. Whenever sherry is used for cooking purposes, golden sheny is better than a pale dry wine. One most important point in the serving of entrees is their appearance. The cook should endeavour to please the eye as an accessory to the palate. I will now run through a few of the most common faults that inexperienced cooks exhibit in serving various entrees. One very common one is putting too much in one dish. The quantity should always be in proportion to the dish. Indeed, I have seen dishes so piled up that, when first handed, persons have had considerable difficulty in avoiding a sort of shower of pieces on their plate. This is, of coui*se, rare; but it will be very often found that dishes are so filled that any attempt at ornament or garnish is simply impossible. Another equally common fault is, that when any entrees are served that I'equire gravy, the gravy is not only too thin but too abundant. With regard to gravy poured round entrees, few maxims can be better for the cook to bear in mind than—" Little and good." Perhaps few dishes would better test a cook than hashed venison, made, say, from the remains of a haunch, and as the same remarks would equally apply to hashed mutton, a short description will not be unpractical. We all know that generally inartistic dish called hashed mutton, once the scorn of Mrs. Gamp. Cei-tainly a large dish—large enough to hold a haunch—in which thin slices of mutton float in an ocean of thin pale gravy, surrounded by sodden sippets of toast, cut in the old-fashioned wedge pattern, does not look tempting. Suppose, however, we serve hashed venison or mutton, nicely oi-namented in a silver dish, as follows—premising that, should you not possess a silver dish, wa would recommend an ordinary vegetable dish instead :—Fii-st, make some good strong gravy with a good colour, using up the bone of the joint for the purpose; get the gravy to a good consistency, like that of double cream, dark in colour, and thickened with arrowroot in preference to brown thickening. Next, in cutting up the meat, take care to avoid pieces of skin and gristle, and also avoid having thick lumps of meat. Warm up the meat in this gi-avy, taking care, as befoi-e, not to let the meat remain in for a longer period than absolutely necessaiy