ALM in a modcmto ovon. This dust \n chiofly usod ioT giiniLshiiig nikes and swoot dishos. Almond Flummory.—Cover ono ounce of golatiiio witli wutor; lot It stand half an hour, thon pour upon it a pint and a half of boiling milk or croain that has boon flavoui-dd with one ounce of swoot and ono ounce of bitter almonds which havo boon proviously blanched and pouiulod, and eight or nine lumps of sugar—in tlio lump, for fear of dust—on which a little lemon has boon rubbed. Stir the nu>cture occasionally till cool, to pre- vent a scum forming. Strain it carcfullJ^ Pour it into a mould which has been wottod with cold water, and let it stand until quite firm. If likod, isinglass may be used instead of gelatine. Probable cost, if .made with milk, Is. Suf- ficient for a quart nu)uld, which will bo enough lor six or eight poi sons. Almond Fritters.—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a little water: niix them gradually in one pint of new milk or cix^ani with two table-spociifuls of ground rice and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Sweeten according to taste. Melt two ounces of butter in tlie frying-pan, and, when hot, fry the mixture a spoonful at a time. Stir it well till it is a golden- brown. Cover it with sifted sugar. Time to_ fry, five minut(3s. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. ^ ■ Almond Gauffres.—JMix a table-spoonful of fine fioiu- -with a little sugar, the rind of a lemon chopped spiall, and two eggs. When thoroughly mixed, ,add to them four ounces of blanched and finely - sHced sweet almonds. Make a baking-tin .quite hot, and oil it well. Spread the mixture on it very thin, and bake it in a moderate oven untU. slightly coloured. Take it out and stamp it in rounds, and fold each over a reed ih the shape of a small horn. This must be done \vhile they are hot, and great care must 'b6 taken not to break them. Fill them with a little bright-coloured jam, and put them in a hot place to drj'. Probable cost. Is. ' ' '■ Almond G-ingertiread.—Melt half a pound of treacle with' two table-spoonfuls of butter, and add to them two table-spoonfuls of flour and two of ground rice, a small cupful of sugar, a little chopped lemon and candied peel. AVTien th0SQ ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put to them' a quarter of a j)ound of nlmonds blanched and pounded. Beat well together for a : few minutes, then bake in small cakes on a well-oiled tin. The oven must not be. hot. , Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost, :l8. ..6d. per pound Almond Icing for Cakes. — Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and eight bitter almonds. Pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, and drop in once or twice during the process a very little orange-flower water. Add to them one pound of sifted sugar, and as much white of egg as will make a soft stiflF paste. When all are well mixed together, lay the icing on the top of the cake, already baked, a little more than half an inch thick, as smoothly and evenly as possible. Put it in a cool place to dry. The sugar icing goes over this. Tiuio to dry, about one day. I'roljable cost of almonds, Is. to 2s. Gd. por jjouud. Almond Jelly.—Put one oujuc ;iiia a half of best isinglass, a quart of water, a bttlo sugar, and a quarter of a pound of blanched and ])oun(led almonds into a saucepan. Let tlicm lioil half un hour. Strain tlie liquid care- fully tlu-ough a jelly-bag, flavour it with a little briindy, and pour it into a v/ot mould. If calf's- fopt stock is uH(;d, the almouds should be boiled with a little sugar and water seijamtoly for some time, to extract the flavour, tlien the liquid mixed with tho stock, and all boiled uj) together again, with a tea-spoonful of isinglass to a quart of stock. Time, an hour and a lialf. Probable cost, 2s., without tho brandy. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Almond Jumbles.—Work two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, then add two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a little lemon-juice, and two ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste with tho white of an egg. ^lix thoroughly, roU it out rather thin, cut into small round cakes, place them on well-oiled tins, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per x)oimd. Almond Meringues.—AVbisk the whites of four eggs to the firmest possible froth, and mix slightly ^vith them a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Plave ready some pieces of writing-paper fastened upon a board, to pre- vent the meringues being too much coloured at the bottom, and drop them upon it in the form of a half egg. Sprinkle some finely-shred almonds over them, and upon this a little coarsely-sifted sugar. Place them in a cool oven, and, when they are firm, take them out, scoop out a little of the inside, place them on clean paper, upside down, and return them to the oven, and when they are crisp through they are done. "When ready to serve, place almond cream inside, and join them together with the white of an egg. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small dish. Almond Milk.—Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet and six bitter almonds to a paste, adding a few drops of orange- flower-water every now and then, to prevent oiling. Add a quart of cold water, and let it stand two or three hours, then strain and bottle for use. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added if liked. "When wanted, a little water must bo mixed vdth. the milk, and sweetened, and it will be found to be a very refreshing beverage for feverish patients. Time, four hours. Probable cost, -Id. Sufficient for a quart of milk. Almond Nougat. —Blanch and chop rouglily six ounces of sweOt and five bitter almonds, and put them in a cool oven till they are slightly browned. Put three ounces of sifted sugar into a saucepan, and wlien it is dissolved throw in the almonds, and mix all together for a few minutes. The almonds must be hot . when they are put into tho saucepan. Spread