ANC ( 13 ) APP of ancho\y, which may be bought at any grocer's, into a pint of melted butter. Let the sauce boil, aud flavour with lomon-juico. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls to a pint. Anchovy Sauce for Beef.—Wash four -anchovies lightly and dry them well, then re- move the bones, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Dredge some flour thickly over these, <ind fry them in a little butter over a gentle Jire for five or six minutes. Pour half a pint of stock broth over them, add salt and pepper if required, and an inch or two of cucumber cut into dice. Simmer the sauce gently, and before ■sending to table stii- into it a tea-spoonful of bruised capers. Time to simmer, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Anchovy Sauce for Salmon.—Incor- j)orate with a i^int of boiling melted butter a couple of tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, and add cayenne and lemon-juice to suit the taste. A similar sauce may be made with essence of shiimps; but true shrimjj sauce (con- taining the meat of the shrimps) is not usually served with salmon. Time, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient, two tea-spoonfuls of the essence to a pint of sauce. Anchovy Toast.—Wash five or six an- chovies, and cut ofl^ their heads and fins. Fillet them — that is, take the backbone out and divide the fish into two, from the shoulder to the tail. Make some well-buttered toast, lay the fish upon it, and add mustard and cayenne to suit the palate; or make the anchovy into a paste {see Aiichovy Paste^, and spread it over .slices of toast, about halt an inch thick. Six anchovies are sufficient for two rounds of toast. Probable cost, 4d. Angelica, Candied.—Take the plant in April: boil it in salt and water until it is tender. Kemove and drain it well, scrape the outside, and drj^ it in a clean cloth. Place it in a S}Tup, and allow it to remain there for three? or four days, closely covered. The syrup must be made from the same weight of sugar that there is of fruit, allowing half a pint of water to a pound cf sugar, and must be boiled twice a day, and poured over the fruit until it is mearly all absorbed; after which it should be put into a pie-dish, and placed near the fire. Time to make, about ten days. Angelica can seldom be bought in the market. Angelica Batafia is a very rich, fine cordial, made by putting half a pound of the shoots of the above plant into two quarts of Lrandy, with a pint of water, two pounds of sugar, a few cloves, and a little cinnamon. The angelica mu.st infuse for two months in a oloso vessel before it is strained and bottled. Probable cost, per pint, 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Annie's (Rich) Cake.—Rub one pound of butter and one pound of lard into four pounds of flour; add a salt-s-poonf ul of salt, twelve tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, two pounds of sugar, one pound of raisins, three pounds of currants, half a pound of chopped candied lemon, citron, and orange-peel mixed, a tea- spoonful of mixed spices, and eight eggs weU. beaten. Mix lightly with now milk. Bake in a quick oven. Sufficient for five cakes weighing about two pounds each. Probable cost, Is. each. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Apple, The.—The apple is a British fruit, and may be eaten raw, or cooked in various ways. The best for eating are : the Iilargarets, Blenheim Oranges, Pibstone, Golden and other Pippins, Nonpariel Pussets, Pear- mains, Kentish Codlins, and Dowtons. As a rule the rough-rinded apj^les are the best for eating, while those of smooth exterior are most suitable for preparation. For cooking the most preferable are : the Wellingtons, Colvilles, liennets, Pearmains, and Russets; while both for eating and for baking purposes the American Pippins occupy a high place. Apple Batter Pudding.—Put into a bowl half a pound of flour and a little salt, and stir very gradually into it half a pint of milk. Beat it until quite smooth, then add three eggs. WeU butter a pie-dish, and pour about half the batter into it. Place it in a quick oven, and bake it imtil quite firm. Nearly fill the dish with apples, pared, cored, and sliced, and slightly stewed with a little sugar, and lemon-rind, or any other flavouring. Pour the rest of the batter in, and replace in the oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. Apple Black Caps.—Take a few firm, juicy apples, pare them, and take out the cores without breaking the apples. Fill the hollow of each with some pounded sugar and one or two cloves. Place them in a shallow dish with a little sweet wine, sugar to taste, and a little lemon-rind, a few cloves, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Let them stew slowly in the oven until the apples are soft through- out, but do not let them break, and when they are sufficiently done, heat the tops with a sala- mander, to make them look black. They may be served hot or cold, and will keep some days. Time, about half an hour to bake. One will suffice for each person. Apple Butter, American.—Fill a pre- sei-v'iug-pan with apples peeled, quartered, and cored. Add a slight flavouring of cloves, aU- 'spice, and cinnamon. Cover with good cider, and boil slowly, stirring from time to time with a wooden spoon, until the whole becomes a dark brown jam, with only juice sufficient to keep it soft and buttery. Remove it from the fire, and place in well-covered jars, and in a few weeks it will be ready for use. It makes an excellent substitute for butter, and is very wholesome for children. Time to prepare, five or six hours. Probable cost per pint, lOd. Apple Cakes.—Take two pounds of apples, pare, core, and quarter them. Stew them gently with one pound of sugar, the juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, a table- spoonful of butter, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat these ingredients thoroughly together, and drop them in small rounds upon a sheet of well- oiled paper. Place them in a cool oven, and