CEL CHA C 116 ) lay the celery in it, let it boil for ten minutes more, and serve as hot as possible. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for six persons. Celery, Stewed (ii la Or^me).—Wash very clean two heads of celeiy, trim them neatly, cutting off the outer stalks, the leaves, and the tops, and boil them in salt and water until nearly tender. Drain them and put them in a dish. Have ready in another saucepan a break- fast-cupful of good cream. Let it boil, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, tUl it is thick and smooth; then pour it over the celery, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve. Time to boil the celery, from thi-ee-quarters of an hour to one hour and a half. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Celery, To Dress.—Cut off the end of the root, leaving the white part; wash it very carefully, trim away all the decayed leaves and outer stalks, and if the root be very thick, split it into quarters. Send it to table in a celery glass half filled with cold water. Curl the top leaves by drawing the point of a skewer through them, dividing them into strips about five inches from the top. Celery, To Fry.—Cold boiled celery wiU answer for this purpose. Split three or four heads, and dip the pieces into clarified butter, and fry them until they are lightly browned; lay them on some blotting-paper for a minute to drain.off the fat, and pile them like sugar biscmts on a napkin. Garnish the dish prettily with parsley. They may be dipped in batter before frying, and served with melted butter, or with good brown sauce made with the gravy in which they were boiled. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Suflicient for five or six persons. Celery, To Preserve through the Winter.—Gather the celery on a fine dry day before it is injured by the frost, cut off the leaves and roots, and lay it in a dry airy place for a few days till it is partially dried; then remove it to a cool cellar, where it will be quite secure from frost, and pack it up with sand, putting layers of celery and of sand alternately. Celery Vinegar.—Bruise an ounce of celery seed, put it into a quart bottle, which must be filled up with cold boiled vinegar, let it soak for three weeks, then strain, and bottle for use. A few di-ops are an agreeable addition to salads, &c. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Celery, with White Sauce.—Prepare the celery as for stewing, let it stew in salt and water for ten minutes, then drain it, and just cover it with a little veal broth; stew it again till tender. As the broth boils away, add a little milk. When the celery is sufficiently cooked, arrange it on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, season it lightly with Bait and pepper, and pour it over the celery. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient, one head for two persons. Chalybeate Water, Artificial (for weakly constitutions tluit require iron).—Those who cannot travel in search of ferruginous springs may very easily prepare a supply at home. Take half a pound of iron na.iLB, wash them clean, and leave them exposed to the air and dew for a few hours in some place where they will take a little rust without being defiled by blacks, then put them into a jar capable of holding three or four pints ; fill it up with rain or river water, which has been poured high from one vessel into another, in order to aerate it. Let it stand thirty-six hours, when it will be ready for use. A wine-glassful ought to be taken twice a day, a quarter of an hour after meals. Champagne Cream.—Beat the yolks of five eggs veiy thorouglily, and add by degrees some finely-pounded white sugar, sufficient to make it stiff and firm. Then add a bottle of champag-ne, keep on stirring till it is all mixed. Last of all, put in a table-spoonful of brandy. Put the cream into a glass jug, and serve it in champagne glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour. The probable cost will depend upon the price of the champagne. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Champagne Cup.—Pour a bottle of champagne into a silver or glass cup, large enough to hold three quarts. Add to this two bottles of soda or seltzer water, a table-spoonful of brandy, and sixteen ounces of pounded ice Stir it well with a silver spoon, and add, last of all, a table-spoonful of finely-sifted sugar. Be careful, when putting in the sugar, that the wine does not overflow. A little cucumber-rind is by some persons considered an improvement. Time, a few minutes. Sufficient for a party of nine or ten. Champfagne, Currant.—Put four pounds of loaf sugar into a saucepan with six quarts of water; skim it well, and boil it till it is a clear sjTup; pour it over a quart of white and a quart of red currants, which have been stripped from the stalks. Let it stand for one hour and a half, then stir in two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Let it remain for two days, stirring it fre- quentlj', pass it through a coarse bag into a small cask, and fine it with a quarter of an ounce of isinglass. Probable cost, currants, 4d. or 6d. per quart. Champagne, English.—The yellow hairy gooseberries are the best for this purpose. They should be taken when they are fully grown, but before they are in the least ripe. Eeject all unsound or bruised fruit, and pick off the stalks and heads. Bruise a gallon of fruit so as to burst the berries without breakitig the seeds. Be careful that the tub in which they are placed is scrupulously clean. Pour over them a gallon of water, and let them stand in a warm place for forty-eight hours, stirring them frequently, until all the juice and pulp are separated from the rest of the fruit. Strain the liquid, pressing the pulp with a wooden spoon till it is quite dry. Pour it upon four pounds of coarse sugar, and let it stand three days more, stUl stirring it frequently, then strain 'it through a coarse bag into a cask, and mix with it a cupful of the best gin. Let it stand twelve months, then bottle it. It must be bottled in the spring. If it is not quite clear, it may bo fined with a little isinglass; half an ounce is enough for four gallons. After the bungs are