( 375 ) LEM LEM a lemon into strips an inch long and the eighth of an inch wide, throw them into -boiling water, let them boil for two minutes, then dram and dry them. Put six ounces of sugar into a pint of water, add the juke of the lemon and the strips of rind, and simmer gently for two hours. "SMien wanted for use turn out the rice, pour the sjTup gently over it, and take care that the lemon-rind is equally distributed. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lemon Rock Biscuits.—Rub the yellow rind of two fresh .lemons upon a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Powder it, and mix it gradually with the white of an egg whisked to a firm froth; beat thoroughly. Butter some writing-paper, place it on an oven tin, di-op the mixtui-e upon it from the end of a spoon in rock-like shape, and place it in a cool oven to diy. Time, haK an hour to beat the sugar and egg. Probable cost, od. Lemon Roly-poly Pudding (excel- lent).—Take the pulp from two large, fresh lemons. Remove the pips, weigh the lemons, and boil them with an equal weight of sugar for a quarter of an hour. Turn the mixture out to cool. Mix six ounces of finely-shred suet with three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and as much water as will make it into a firm paste. Roll it out about half an inch in thickness, spi'ead the mixture upon it, roll it round and round into a long pudding, pinch the ends securely, tie it in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough, which will he in about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sirfficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sandwiches.—Take one pound of rich pufE paste and roU it out very thinly. Divide it in halves, and spread over one half a layer of lemon cheesecake mixtui-e. Put the other half upon it, press it closely, mark it lightly into diamonds, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sauce for Fowls.—^Take a fresh lemon, pare off the rind, and remove the thick white sldn and the pips. Cut it into dice, and put it into half a pint of good melted hutter. Make it thoroughly hot ^\'ithout bringing it to the point of boiling, and serve immediately; half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind is sometimes added. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Lemon Sauce, for Fowls, White. —Take about half a pint of white stock (or, failing this, boil the trimmings of the fowls with a little water), put it into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, six white peppercorns, half a blade of mace, pounded, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a bunch of parsley. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. vStrain the sauce, add half a pint of good cream or milk, thicken with a dessert-spoonful of flour mixed .smoothly vrifh a little cold milk, and boil gently a few minutes longer. Just before serving, add the strained J'uice of the lemon, but let the sauce cool a ittlo before it is put in, and stir it well or it will curdle. If wanted very rich the sauce may be thickened with a little butter rolled in flour. Time, twenty minutes to flavour the stock. Probable cost, Is. if made with cream. Suffi- cient for half a dozen persons. Lemon Sauce for Puddings.—Put the rind and strained j nice of a large lemon into a bowl. Poui- over them a wine-glassful of sheiTy or i-aisin wine, and a wine-glassful of water. Let them infuse some time. IVIix an ounce of fresh butter and an ounce of flour over the fii'e. When it is slightly browned gradually pour in the wine and water; add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil gently untU the mixture is quite smooth. Draw the saucepan from the fire, let the contents cool a minute, then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stii- the mixtui-e imtil it thickens, but it must not he allowed to boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. Time, four or five minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lemon Sauce for Puddings (another v^Siy).—Put the thin rind of a lemon and thi-ee table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then add the juice of the lemon and a M'ine-glassful of gin. Strain and serve. Two or three drops of cochineal may he added, if liked. Probable cost, 3d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Lemon Sherbet.—Rub the yellow rind of five small lemons with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Crush the latter to powder, put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, and simmer gently until the sugar is dissolved. When cold, add the strained juice of the lemon. Take out the rind, and, in the usual way, serve in glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the sjTup. Prohable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lemon Shrub (see Orange or Lemon Shrub). Lemon Snow (a pretty dish for a juvenile party).—Pour a pint of cold water over an ounce of isinglass or gelatine. Let it soak for half an hour, then put it in a sauce- pan ever the fire, with three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and the thin rind and strained juice of two fresh lemons. Simmer gently, stirring it all the time, until the isinglass is dissolved; then pour it out, and put it aside until it is cold and beginning to set. Stir in the whites of thi-ee well-beaten eggs, and whisk all together briskly tmtil it stiffens and as- sumes the appearance of snow, then jjile it lightly in a glass dish, and make it look as rockj' as possible. If the uniform whiteness is objected to, a tea-spoonful of hundreds and thousands may be strewn over the top just before serving, or half of the snow may be coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time to whisk the snow, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, if made with gelatine, Is. 3d. Suffi- i cient for eight or ten persons. ! Lemon, Solid.—Rub the rind of a largo ' fresh lemon with four ounces of sugar, crush