BEE ( 49 ) SEE Buperfliious fat. An ox is usually cut up and di't'ssod as follows:— SiKLoiN. Pi-imo roasting joint. The chimxp end is the finest part, as it contains the largest portion of the undercut or tillet. Excellent steaks may be cut from this fillet, and are considered by some superior to rump steak. The sirloin siiould bo hung as long as pos- sible before it is cooked. Two sirloias ciit together form a baron of beef. Price j)er pound, 1b. to Is. Id. Rump. Upper part or chump end roasted. Lower or silver side salted and boiled. Middle part cut into steaks. Price per pound, lid. to Is.; steak, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Aitchbone. Salted and boiled or stewed, some- times roasted. Price per pound, TJd. to S^d. Buttock ok Eound. Boiled, stewed, or cut into steaks. The upper side if hung for a few days makes an excellent and econo- mical roasting joint. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Mouse Kound, Boiled or stewed. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Veiny Piece, Steaks. Inferior in quality to the rump. Price per pound, lid. to ll^d. Thick Flank. Fine boiling piece. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Thin Flank. Boiled. This part is excellent when boned, rolled, and pressed. Price per pound, 8d. Leg. Stewed, and good for soup. Price per poimd, 4d. to 9d. FoKE Ribs (five ribs). Roasted. Prime roasting part. Price per pound, lOd. to Is. Middle Ribs (four ribs). Economical roasting part. Price per pound, lOd. Chuck Ribs (three ribs). Steaks. Second quality. Price per pound, lOd. Shoulder or Leg ov Mutton Piece. Boiled or stewed. Price per pound, lOd. to lid. Brisket. Boiled or stewed. Excellent when salted and pressed. Price per pound, 7d. to 8d. Clod. Boiled or stewed. Used in making gravy. Price per pound, 6d. to 9d. Neck. Soups, gravies, &c. Price per poimd, 5d. to 8d. Shin. Soups and gra\'ies. Also for stewing. Price per pound, 4d. to 9d. Cheeks. Brawn, soup, &c. Price per* pound, 4jd. Tail. Soup. Stewed. Each, Is. 3d. to 2s. 9d. Tongue. Salted and boiled. Each, 5s. to 6s. Heels. Stewed for jeUy and stock. Each, 9d. to Is. Liver. Stewed and fried. Price per pound, 5d. Besides these there is the Palate, which is stewed or fried; the Heart, which is stuffed and roasted; the Sweetbreads and Tripe, which is cooked in various ways; and the Skirt, which makes rich gravy. ' Purchase the best meat and the best joints, they are the most economical in the end. The quality of beef depends on so many circum- stances that the surest way to get it good is to I buy of one respectable butcher whose word may be depended on. The following direc- tions are given for the benefit of those who require them; they do not belong to any particular moats, those will be treated on in thoir proper places:—While cooking, keep a good fire and place the meat rather near it at first. After a short time, varying from ten to fifteen minutes, draw the joint back, and let it cook steadily. Baste often ; a great deal depends on this. Inexperienced cooks think they have done all that is necessaiy when they have put it before the fire, and given it the prescribed time; but without frequent basting the meat wiU be dry and indigestible. Although the greatest care has been taken to give correctly the time required for cooking the various dishes, it must be re- membered that it is impossible to give it exactly to suit each case, because so many circumstances tend to vary it, such as the age of the animal, the time the meat has been kept after being killed, the state of the weather, the cooking apparatus used, and the quality of the fuel. The average only has been taken, and this being understood, common sense must make allowance for the rest. It will be an assistance to remem- ber that freshly-killed meat requires more time than that which has been kept, and also that meat needs cooking rather longer in cold weather than in hot. Beef, Aitchbone of, Salted.—Most persons roast this joint, but we think it far superior salted and boiled according to the following recipe:—Take a piece of beef, say ten pounds, and rub into it a mixture com- pound of three-quarters of a pound of salt, one ounce of dark moist sugar, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Turn the meat each day, and rub the pickle well in every time. Keep it in this condition four or five days, when it will be found salt enough for most people. When wanted for use, put it into a large saucepan, with enough boiling water to cover, let it boil, then draw back, and simmer gently for two hours and a half. " If," says Dr. Kitchiner, it boils too quickly at first, no art can make it tender afterwards; the slower it boils the better." Carrots, turnips, and suet-dumplings are the proper accompaniments to this dish. The soft, marrow-Hke fat at the back of the joint should be eaten when it is hot, the hard fat left until the joint is served- cold. The liquor in which the beef is boiled should not be thrown away, it will make excellent j^ea- soup. Probable cost, 7^d. to 8^d. per pound. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Beef, Aitchbone of. To Carve.—In carving an aitchbone of beef it is necessary that it should be cut across the graia. In order to AITCHBONE OP BEEF. do this the knife should follow the line from a to B in the above illustration. The moat should