cassill's cookery. lais peculiar flavour, though slightly im|,airi„g tlie delicacy of the wine i, not however unwholesome. In selecting sherry, of couree every^,i„g dei^Zurl the Hotr ' " " " 8«t a line wine forX The chief point to be avoided in sherries is spirit. Some of the very chea,, ^erry contains a gi-eat deal of an exceedingly unwholesome spirit-wood pirit iact, wluch IS very mjurious. These fiery sherries are almolt the worn form of Stimulant m winch persons can indulge. Remember, therefore, in buying s'herry that there is no such thing as a bargain save at sales by auction. When any person ofiers you three sixi,ences for a shillii../ yon may depend upon it that at least two out of the three must be bad ones It U quite impossible to get a pure, wholesome wine at Is. 3d. a bottle; and it is to be regretted that such large quantities of injurious wine are allowed to be sold in this country, as well as bcul spirits. Indeed, many of the unfortunate poor who are charged with drunkenness are in reality more poisoned than drunk, and many ot those shocking outbursts of wild ferocity that too often appear in the police reports are the results of the brain being maddened temporarily by poisonous liquors. We will next proceed to discuss port—probably still the most really popular wine in this country. Much that has been said of cheap sheny applies equally to cheap port, the only difference being that port is a somewhat dearer wine than sherry. When the consumption of wine in a house is large, it will be found advisable to draw the port for every-day drinking from the wood, le., if you feel sure you will finish the cask within twelve months. When port is kept in the wood too long it is apt to lose colour and deteriorate in flavour. The minimum price at which I should say a faii-ly sound palatable port can be bought would be about £18 for a quarter cask, i.e., twenty-eight gallons, or between thii-teen and fourteen dozen of wine. Port varies very much with the year and also with the time of bottling. The most famous vintages are 1820, 1834, 1840, 1847, 1863, and 1870. The 1840 port is a splendid dry wine that still retains its colour in perfect integrity, and when authenticated will fetch a guinea a bottle. The 1847 port varies immensely, some being rather sweet. It is still a very rich wine, and when bottled early is nearly equal to the 1840, though not so dry. Very few vintages promise better than the 1870, the wine already fetching 48s, a dozen. Port wine throws a crust on the bottle, which crust should be transparent. Great care should be taken in decanting the wine not to break this cmst. Consequently the bottle, which of course is lyuig on its side in the cellar, should be moved very gently, the cork drawn without shaking the bottle if possible, the wine then poured into the decanter through a wine strainer in which a piece of fine muslin has been placed, and the wine must be watched as it is gently poured out, taking care to keep the same side of the bottle uppermost as in the bin. The moment the wine has the least appearance of being cloudy, cease pouring the wine. As long as only little pieces of the crust come out which look transparent, and which ai'e retained in the strainer, and the rest of the wine poui's clear, there is no fear of continuing to pour. When, however, the wine itself is cloudy, stop instantly, or the whole bottle will be spoiled. Recollect that port wine when not bright loses not only in apijearance but in flavour. Port wine requires great care in keeping, as it is utterly ruined if exposed to great cold. Port that has been exposed to severe frost gets cloudy, and never