NUN ( 462 ) OAT Blanch thorn, and pound thorn in a mortar to a smooth paste, and kcop dropping? a little orange-flower water on them to prevent them oiling. Hub the yellow rind of two largo fresh lemons upon half a pound of loaf sugar, crush it to powder, sift it well, and nux it with tho ahuonds; add two ounces of dried flour, a table-spoonful of finely-minced candied citron, tho yolks of sLx eggs well beaten, and last of all tho whites whisked to a firm froth. Put a spoonful or two of tho mi.xturo into some arnaH patty-pans well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven. When they are brightly browned, turn them out of the pans, put them upon baking-tins, and place them again in tho oven to harden. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Nuns' Cake.—Beat eight ounces of fi-esh butter to a cream ; add half a pound of lino flour, a small nutmeg grated, eight ounces of powdered sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Mix thoroughly, then stir in the whites of two of the eggs whisked to a solid froth. Work all briskly together for some minutes. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and, being care- ful to leave room for it to rise, bake in a mode- rate oven for about an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Nuremberg Egg.—Put an egg in boil- ing water, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Take it out, remove the shell, and dip it in batter. Fry it ia hot butter imtil it is browned aU over, then dip it in agaia, and repeat this until the ball is sufficiently large. Serve on a hot dish, and pour wine-sauce over it. Time, according to size. Nuremberg Gingerbread.—Beat four eggs thoroughly; mix with them half a nut- meg grated, six pounded cloves, two ounces each of candied lemon and citron finely minced, and eight oimces of powdered sugar. Stir these briskly for ten minutes; then add very gradually half a pound of dried flour, a small piuch of salt, and half a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little warm milk. When the ingredients are thoroughly blended, put with them eight oimces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced. Spread the mixture a quarter of an inch thick on wafer- paper, cut it into fingers, place these on ♦but- tered tins, and bake in a very moderate oven. Time, about half an hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Nut Cakes, Hazel {sec Hazel-nut Cakes). Nutmegs are the seed of a small tree belonging to the natural order MjTisticacese. In Great Britain about 2,000 lbs. are consumed annually. Pereira mentions that to prevent the attacks of an insect known as the nutmeg insect, the nuts are frequently limed. For the Eng- lish market, however, the brown or unlimed nutmegs are preferred. " The Dutch lime them by dipping them into a thick mixture of lime and water ; but this process is considered to injure their flavour. Others lime them by rub- bing them with recently-prepared well-sifted lime. This process is sometimes practised in London." Nutmeg, Tmcture of. - Grate throe ounces of nutm. g ; put tho powder into a quai-i bottle, and fiU it up with good bmndy or spirits ot wmo. Cork it, and shake it wcU ever^ day for a fortnight, then pour olf tho liquid, IcavinL- the sediment behind. Put tho tincture int<> smaU bottles, cork these closely, and store foi- use. I'robablo cost, according to the quahty of tho spirit. SuHicieut, throe drops to flavouj- halt a pmt of liquid. Nutritive Drink. — Beat three effers thoroughly ; add a pint of cold water, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, two glasses of sheiry, and tho strained juice of a fresh lemon. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d.,' exclusive of tho wine. Sufficient to fill two tumblers. Nutritive Properties of Food [see Properties of Food, &c.). Nuts, American Dough [see Dough Nuts, American). o Oat-cake.—Oat-cakes, or oatmeal cakes, are very common in the North of England. They are eaten with butter or cheese, either toasted or plain. When first made they are quite soft, but after they have been dried before the fire for a few minutes they become crisp and hard. When made in perfection they are as thin as wafers, and are certainly very good eating, though not of a very satis- fying nature. They are baked on a bakestone, or backstone, which is a kind of thick frying- pan, made of iron or stone. Oat-cake.—Mix two or three table-spoon- fuls of oatmeal with a pinch of salt and a little cold water. Ivnead it well round and roimd with the hands for some minutes, then spread it on a pastry-board as thin as jjossible, and strew meal under and over it. Move it by means of a baking spittle to the bakestone, and bake it on both sides over a clear fire. It is well to mix sufficient oatmeal and water for one cake at a time, as the batter soon dries. Time, two or three minutes to bake the cakes. Probable cost, 3d. per dozen. Oat-cake, Lancashire.—In Lancashire oat-oakes are partially made either with butter- milk or with meal which has been mixed and left for a few days to turn sour. They are baked very much in the same way as in the preceding recipe. It is necessarj', however, to see these cakes made by some one accustomed to the work before attempting their manufacture. Oat-cake, made with Yeast.—Put a quart of water into a bowl, and mix with it one ounce of dissolved German yeast. . Sprinkle three and a half pounds of fine oatmeal into it, stirring it briskly all the time, and when the mixture is smooth and thick, place the bowl in a warm place, cover it with a cloth, and leave it half an hour to rise. Stir it wcU, spread it out very tlun, sprinkle a little oatmeal under and over it, and throw it upon the bakestone, which should be placed over a bi-ight fire; when lightly