APP APP ( 20 ) round. Spmid tho rice out, tie it firmly round the apple, pluiigo tlio bails into ijoiiiiig wutor, and lot tliom boil gontly till douo enough. Turn theui upon a dish, sift powdered white sugar thickly over them, and servo. If liked, a little sweet sauce can bo served with these j)uddings. Time to boil, throe-quarters of an Tiour or more, according to the quality of the apple. Probable cost, lOd. yuflicient for live or six persons. Apple Solid.—Melt a heaped table-spoon- ful of isinglass in a little water. Take half a pint of nicely-tiavoured apple-pulp, mix it well with ialf a pint of cream, then add the dissolved isinglass and sugar to sweeten it agreeably. Let it stand till nearly cold; add a glass of "wine or a table-spoonful of brandy, pour into a buttered mould, and keep it in a cool place xmtil the next day. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Apple Soufl9.e.—Reduce half a dozen apples to a pulp, sweeten and flavour them nicely, and place them in the middle of a large dish. When cool, pour over them a good custard, made with half a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs, sugar, and flavouring. "Whisk the whites to a solid froth, place it in rock-like pieces over the custard, and sift a •dessert-spoonful of white sugar over it. Put it in the oven till the icing is lightly browned, and serve cold. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Suf- £cient for four or five persons. Apple Soup, Germaa. — Peel half a dozen large fresh apples, cut out the cores, and boil them thoroughly with three pints of water, a thick slice of the crumb of bread ■finely grated, the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a quarter of an oxmce of powdered ■cinnamon. When cooked to a pulp, rub them through a sieve. Add two glasses of white wine, and sweeten to taste. Serve with toasted tread. Sufficient for four or five persons. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the wine. Apple Sugar.—Boil a pint of apple-juice APPLE SCOAR. X,see Apple-Juice) wnth two pounds of loaf sugar, until it becomes brittle as soon as it is dropped in cold water. Then pour on a well-oiled dish, draw it out into twisted sticks : dry them, and keep them iu a tin box. Time to boil, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, L-s. inn- pound. Apple (Swiss) Pudding. — Butter a deep pio-dish. Pill it with alternate layers of apples sliced, sweetened, and tiavouied, and rusks wliich have been soaked in milk and beaten with a fork. Lot the rusks bo at tho top and tho bottom. Pour molted butter over the wliole, and bake until nicely brcnvned. Serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Apple Tansy. — Pare and core six or eight largo apples, cut them into thin, round slices, and fry them in butter. Then beat up three eggs in a pint of cream, and pour them upon the apples. Time to fry the apples, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Tart or Cake.—Line a shallow pie-dish with good pufE paste. Make a mixture consisting of two pounds of apples pared, cored, and chopped, the peel of two lemons grated, a piece of butter the size of a large egg, four eggs well beaten, and a cupful of cream or new milk, and sugar according to taste. Mix these ingre- dients thoroughly. Put them on the paste, leaving a narrow rim all round. Blanch a few almonds, cut them into long strips, place them over the top of the apples, and bake in a quick oven. Care should be taken that the almonds are not too much baked. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for three medium-sized dishes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apple Tart, Economical.—Take three- quai'ters of a pound of flour: mix with it a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and a httle salt; rub well in six ounces of clarified beef drip- ])ing, and make it into a paste with cold water. Roll it out two or three times. Line the edge of a pie-dish with a little paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Wet it all round to make the cover adhere. Pare, core, and quarter a dozen apples. Put them into the dish with a little moist sugar, a couple of cloves, and a table- spoonful of water. Cover it over with paste. Trim it nicely round the edges. Make a hole in the middle for the steam to escape, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, one hour. Suf- ficient for six persons. Probable cost, lOd. Apple Tart,Open.—Line a shallow tart- dish with pufi: paste. Spread over it smoothly apple-pulp flavoured and sweetened, about half OPES TART. an inch in thickness. Cut strips of pastry, twist them, and lay them in cross-bars over the tart. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 81. for a small tart-