HAB ( 307 ) HAR dish, or not. Probable cost, from Ss. 6d. to 68. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hare, Trussing—Clean the vent, and rinse it well with lukewarm water. Wipe the inside, fill it with forcemeat, and sew it up securely. Cut oft" the fore-legs at the first jomt, and the sinews under the legs, and bring both the hind and fore-legs forward towards the head. Fasten them close to the body with a skewer run through them and the body as well. Keep the head back vnth a skewer put in the mouth through the head, and between the shoulders. Skin the ears, and leave them entire. Pass a string roimd the body, from skewer to skewer, find fasten it over the back. Hare, Wine Sauce for.—Take three table-spoonfuls of good unflavoured gravy. Mix ■with it thi-ee table-spoonfuls of claret, put it on the fire, and stir into it one table-spoonful of red currant jelly. When quite hot, serve as quickly as possible. The sauce will be much improved ii two cloves and a tiny piece of stick cinnamon are boiled in it for a few minutes before the gravy is added, then strained oflE. Haricot Beans.—This vegetable, which is cheap, nom-ishing, and easily cooked, is not nearly so well known as it deserves to be. It is commonly used, and largely cultivated on the Continent; elsewhere it is generally sold in a dried state. The only secret in connection with it, is to soak the beans in plenty of cold water for several hours before they are used, and then to put them into a saucepan, with cold water, to simmer gently untU tender. After soaking the beans will have become considerably larger. They can be bought at the com and flour shops, for 4d. and 6d. per quart, and if purchased in large quantities are generally sold cheaper. They should be stored in a dry place, but it is well not to keep them longer than twelve months, or there is a danger of their becoming musty. Haricot Beans {see also Beana, Haricot). Haricot Beans, To Boil.—Wash and pick the beans, and soak them in cold wateir over-night. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, add a pinch of salt, and let them simmer gently until tender. Pour the water from them, let them stand by the fire, shaking them once or twice to assist their drying, then add a small piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Time, two hours to boil. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pint. Suf- ciont, one pint for three or four persons. Haricot Beans, To Boil (k la Maitre' d'H6tel).—For the sake of variety haricot beans may, if liked, be cooked as follows:— Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, with half a tea-spoonful of salt. When boiling, throw into it one pint of freshly-shelled beans, and let them simmer gently until soft. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, a dessert-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice. Shake the saucepan over the fire till they are well mixed, and serve as hot as possible. Time, two hours or more to boil. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for two or three persons. Haricot Beans, To Boil (another way). —Soak and boil a quart of the beans, as in the last recipe but one. Drain them, and keep them hot. Mix an ounce of flour very smoothly over the fire with two ounces of fresh butter, add a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water, a little salt and pepper, and a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Put in the beans, shake the saucepan over the fire till they are well mixed with the sauce, and serve as hot as possible. The flour and gravy may be omitted, and a little lemon-juice squeezed over the beans just before serving, as directed for Haricot Beans, a la Maitre d'Hotel. Time, two hours to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufiicient, one quart for eight or ten persons. Haricot Beans, To Stew.—Soak and boil half a pint of beans in the usual way. Drain and dry them. Cut four ounces of bacon into- dice, pour some boiling water on it for a few- minutes, drain it. then put it into a stewpan. Shake the pan over the fire till the bacon is lightly browned, pour over it a quarter of a pint of brown gravy, thickened with flour, and a flnely-minced onion. Season with pepper and salt, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Add the beans, let them stew a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. Time, two hours or more to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four persons. Haricot Beans with Onions.—Wash & pint of beans in two or three waters, pick out any discoloured ones that there may be, and leave them to soak in plenty of cold water until the next day. Drain them, and boil them in. fresh water until they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them once more, and put them on a dish in the oven to keep warm. Take three ounces of onions, which have been three-parts boiled and chopped small, fry these in two ounces of butter, and, whilst frj'ing, mix with them the boiled beans. Stir them about with a fork, and moisten with a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy, rather highly seasoned. This is an excellent accompaniment to roast meat. Time, an hour and a half to boil the beans. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four or flve persons. Haricot Beef, Australian {see Austra- lian Haricot Beef). Haricot Mutton (a good family dish).— Take thi-ee pounds of the neck of mutton, divide it into cutlets, trim them neatly, and fry them in a little dripping till nicely browned, and with them three carrots, two turnips, and an onion, all sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them into a sauceptm. Pour over them a quart of water, which has been boiled in the pan in which the meat, &c., was fried, and tliicken with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Skim carefully, and season with salt and pepper according to taste, and a little ketchup. »Simmer for an hour. Serve ^vith the meat in the middle of the dish, the vegetables round it, and the gravy poured over aU. A few sippets of toasted bread may