JOH ( 343 ) JEN it is well frothed. Pour it into a mould, and set this at once in ice. When fii-m, turn it out on a dish. Time, a few minutes to dissolve. Jenny's Pudding.—Butter a small plain mould mther thickly, and ornament it with dried cherries and slices of lemon-peel stuck in layers aU round the inside. Cut some thin slices of sponge biscuit, and with these Line the mould. Fill up the centre with ratafia bis- cuits and the crumb of bread, finely grated, lay slices of sponge biscuit over the top, and pour over the whole by degrees as much rich custard as it will absorb. Let the pudding stand for an hour or two. Then cover it with buttered ■writing paper, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly for an hour. The mould must be quite full. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for three persons. Jersey Milk Curry.—Take the remains of any kind of white boiled fish. Eemove the bones and skin, and cut the flesh into neat slices, dredge a little flour over them, and fry them in a little butter, with two shallots, finely minced, supposing there are two poimds of fish. Dredge a table-spoonful of curry-powder over them, and put them on a hot plate in the oven until required. Melt two ounces of butter over the fire, and mix smoothly with it two table- spoonfuls of flour. Add a small tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonfiil of mixed spice, and as much milk as will make it of the con- sistency of thick cream. Let it boil gently for a few minutes, then put in the slices of fish, and let them remain for half an hour. Just before serving, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold fish, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Jersey Pudding.—Mix an ounce of fiour thoroughly with two ounces of ground rice, two ounces of moist sugar, and a very small pinch of salt. Work these ingredients smoothly into four ounces of butter. Add two ounces'of stoned raisins, chopped small, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, three well-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. Pour the mixture into a weU-buttered mould, cover it with an oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, and keep it boiling imtil it is done enough. Pour round the pudding a sauce made of s>Tup, flavoured with lemon-rind and juice, and coloured with two or three drops of cochineal. Time, one hour to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Jerusalem Artichokes {see Artichokes, Jerusalem). Jewish Almond Pudding {see Ahnond Pudding, Jewish). Jewish Method of Prying Fish {see Fish, Fried, Jewish Fashion). Jewish Sausage, or Chorissa.—This is used as an accompaniment to boiled fish and other dishes, and is often met with at Jewish tables. It is purchased of the Jew butchers, and is prepared in the following way:—Place the chorissa in warm water, let it heat gently, and then boil for twcntv minutes. Serve, sur- rounded with rico made ready as for curry. Jewish sausages are very good broiled in slices after the previous boiling. They should be quite cold before being put again to the fire One authority is of opinion that they will be found more digestible, as well as pleasfjiter to the taste, if they are half-boiled at least before being broiled, toasted, or warmed in the oven for the table. Jewish Smoked Beef.—Like the sau- sages of the preceding paragraph Jewish smoked beef is to be bought of the Jew butchers. To I cook it, drop the meat into boiling water, let it ; boil for ten minutes, take off any scum that j rises to the surface, add cold water enough to I reduce the Hquid to mere scalding heat, then i bring it gently to the boil, and simmer until ! the lean of the meat feels quite tender when probed with a sharp skewer. Lift the meat on a drainer, and serve hot or cold, and garnish to taste with vegetables or otherwise. John Dory.—The John Dory or Jaune Dore, so named from the yellow tints on its sur- face, is a comparatively rare, and consequently- expensive, fish, which is seasonable from Michael- mas to Christmas. The flesh is white and firm, something hke the claw of a lobster, and, in fish weighing more than seven or eight pounds, is apt to be rather coarse and strong. It is best, both in flavour and quality, when weigh- ing from four to six pounds. Though the oiliness of the skin unfits it for broiling, it is very good when boiled. AVhen very small the John Dory is best baked. It is considered by some inferior only to the turbot. Probable j cost, 3s. to 6s. John Dory, Baked.—Clean, dry, and flour a small fish, season it with pepper and [ salt, and sprinkle a little finely-minced parsley I over it. Brush it well with clarified butter, I and place it in a well-buttered baking-dish, j Pour a glass of light wine over it, and bake in a moderate oven. For sauce, beat the yolks of two eggs, put them into a saucepan with two ounces of butter, the strained juice of half a fresh lemon, two table-spoonfuls of cold water, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and a smaU pinch of powdered mace. Stir weU until the sauce nearly boils. If the boiling point is reached the sauce will curdle. Send it to table poirred over the fish, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two or three persons. John Dory, Boiled.—Empty and cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt over the outside. Cut off the fins, and put it into a fish-kettle, with cold water enough to cover it, and an ounce of salt to each quart of water. Heat it very ' gradually, and be careful that it boils slowly. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp, ancho^T^, lobster, or Dutch sauce should be sent to table with the fish. Time to boil, ac- cording to the size ; a fish weighing five pounds will require about a quarter of an hour's gentle boiling. Probable cost, 3s. to 6s. Sufficient for five or six persons. John Dory, Cold, To "Warm up.— This fish when warmed up is apt to taste a