ox ( ) OX oaten hot, wrap it in greased paper, and waxm it in hot water for about twenty minutes, after taking oS the skin. Glaze it over two or three times until it looks cleiir, and send it to table with mashed turnips, boiled carrots, or stewed cabbage, or with tomato or piquant sauce. If it is to be eaten cold, place the root end against a boiu-d, and put a strong fork into the top and the end in order to bond it into a nice shape, and let it remain until it is firmly set. Glaze it, and before sending it to table ornament the root with a neat frill of cut paper. Or, roll the tongue—that is, turn the thick part into the middle, and press the tongue into a plain i-ound mould just large enough to hold it—put a dish with a weight upon it, and let it remain some hours. Glaze round it, and carve it like a fillet of veal. Tongue.which is to be eaten cold should be allowed to cool in the liquid in which it was boiled. Probable cost, 4s. to 6b. each. Sufiicient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Cured,—Cut away the root, which may afterwards be stewed for stock, leave a little of the fat, and trim the tongue neatly. Rub it well with common salt, and leave it until the next day; drain, and dry it. Mix together one ounce of pounded saltpetre, two ounces of moist sugar, and half a pound of salt. Dry them well, and rub every part of the tongue thoroughly with the powder. Turn it and rub it again every day for three weeks, when it will be ready for cooking, or, if not wanted immediately, for drying or smoking. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Boiled.—Soak a fresh ox tongue for an hour or more. Trim it neatly, and put it into a large stewpan with plenty of cold water, a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with three cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, and a table-spoonful of salt. Let it boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently for three hoirrs. Ascertain whether the tongue is done enough by pushing a skewer into it, then take off the outer skin, serve the meat on a hot dish, and send piquante or tomato sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, Ss. to 48. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Larded—Soak the tongue, and boil it gently for about three hours. Take off the rough skin, and lard the upper part of the tongue evenly with strips of fat bacon. Put it again into the saucepan with as much of the liquor in which it was boiled as will cover it, a dozen fried button onions, a little pepper and salt, and an ounce and a half of butter, rolled thickly in flour. Stew gently for an hour. A quarter of an hour before the tongue is taken up, put with it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a glassful of port. Serve the tongue on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 48. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Roasted.—Soak thf; tongue, and boil it gently for about three hours. Drain it, take olf the skin, trim the root ncath', stick about a dozen cloves into it, and roast before a clear fire, basting it well with good dripping or butter. Serve on a hot dish, and send half a pint of good brown gravy to table with it. If preferred, the tongue may be egged and bread-crumbed before being roasted. Red-currant jelly should be eaten with roasted tongue. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Fresh, Stewed.—Soak a fresh ox tongue for about an hour. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water. Bring it slowly to a boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer very gently until it is done enough. Take off the skin. Brown a table-spoonful of flour in two ounces of butter; add as much of the liquid in which the tongue was boiled as will make the sauce of the thickness of cream, and put with it a finely-minced onion, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a table-spoonful of bruised capers, two sardines, a little sliced lemon, and salt and cayenne to taste. Simmer the tongue in this sauce for about an hour, place it on a hot dish, boil the sauce up once more with a table-spoonful of vinegar and a glassful of sherry or madeira, pour it over the tongue, and serve immediately. Time, altogether, about four hours. Probable cost, 4s. to 6a. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Ox Tongue, Pickled.—Prepare the tongue in the usual way. Soak and dry it, and put it into a deep earthen pan with two dozen peppercorns, a bunch of basU, and a bunch of thyme. Make a pickle by boiling an ounce of saltpetre, an ounce of salprunella, a pound and a half of bay salt, and a pound of moist sugar in a gallon of water for twenty minutes. Let it get quite cold, then cover the tongue with this, and let it remain for ten days or a fortnight, the duration of the time to de- pend upon the season of the year: it should be longer in winter than in summer. When the tongue is taken out of the pickle it should be rubbed well with a dry cloth, and either cooked at once, or hung up to dry. It is always best when cooked straight out of the pickle. This pickle may be used again and again for beef and tongues, but when it has been used a few weeks, it should be boiled gently with a little additional salt and sugar, and the scum carefully removed. Probable cost, 4s. to 68. Ox Tongue, Potted.—Take the remains of a boiled pickled tongue, and a small quantity of roasted meat or poultry, as tongue potted alone is a little too soft. Cut off the skiii and hard parts. Weigh the meat, mince finely, and pound it in a mortar, with six ounces of fresh butter, a heaped tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a pinch of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pounded cloves, and half a nutmeg, grated, to every pound and a half of meat. Mix thoroughly. Press the meat into smaU potting- jars, and cover with clarified butter. Keep in a cool place. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for a quarter of a pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ox Tongue, Potted Whole (for a picnic or supper) .—Take an ox tongue out of