PAR ( 603 ) an ounce of fat bacon into a stewpan with two small onions, finoly minced. Fry them gently for foiu- minutes, then add haK a pint of thick brown sauce, a little pepper and salt, a table- epoonful of chopped mushrooms, or failing those, a table-spoonful of ketchup, a table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a lump of sugar. Boil the sauce for five minutes. It may be served either hot or cold. If the flavour be liked, the saucepan can be rubbed briskly Avith a clove of garlic before the other ingredients are put in. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Paradise, Grains of, or Cardamom Seeds. — Cardamoms are the capsules of a species of plant of the natural order scitaminea;. The seeds form an aromatic pungent spice, weaker than pepper, and with a peculiar but pleasant taste. They are used in this country in confectionery, but not to a very great extent. In Asia, however, they are a favourite condi- ment ; and in the north of Germany they are employed in almost every household to flavour pastry. Several kinds of cardamoms occur in commerce, but none are equal to what are known as Malabar cardamoms, grown in the mountains of Malabar and Canara. Paradise Pudding.—Shred foiu- ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread-crmnbs, half a salt-spoonful of salt, four table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, the grated rind and strained juice of a fresh lemon or a bitter orange, and six large apples, chopped small. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add three well-whisked eggs and a table-spoonful of brandy. Put the mix- ture into a buttered mould, which it will quite fill, tie a floured cloth over it, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until it is done enough. Serve the pudding on a hot dish, with a sauce made as foUowS; poured over it:— Put three table-spoonfuls of apple-jelly into an enamelled saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of bi-andy. Stir them gently until the jelly is dissolved, then pour in gradually a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and stu- the sauce briskly until it is on the point of boiling. It is then ready for serving. If prefen-ed, this pudding may be baked instead of boiled. Time to boil the pudding, three hours; to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Paris Loaves.—^^^lisk the whites of three eggs to a solid froth, and stir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar. Take a pound of finger-biscuits, divide them in twos, spread a little jam between them, and press them together. Brush them over lightly with the sugar icing, then put what remains of it into a paper cornet, squeeze the top to make the contents ooze out of the hole at the end, and in this way ornament the loaves in any way that fancy dictates. Shake a little sugar over them, and dry in a cool oven until they are lightly browned. The appearance of the loavciH will hr- iinprovod if, just Ttfifon; th(\y arn »t!i-vcd, a little Itriglit-colouml jelly of difVi r. ni colours is laid between the ornamental lines. Time, a few minutes to dry the icing. Pro- bable cost, 'is. jjer pound. Paris Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan with three small table-spoonfuls of ground rice; stir it over the fire until it thickens, and when it is nearly cold, mix with it the yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, together Avith three ounces of finely-shred beef suet, three ounces of chopped apples, weighed after they. are peeled and cored, two table- spoonfuls of , chopped raisins, two table- spoonfuls of powdered rusks or finely-grated bread-cnmibs, and a table-spoonful of good jam. Blanch and pound twelve sweet almonds and two bitter ones, mix with them a quarter of a poimd of powdered sugar, four ounces of minced candied peel, a grated nutmeg, and two or three drops of vanilla essence. Add the flavourings to the rest of the ingredients, and beat all together for some minutes. A table- spoonful of brandy may be added or not; pour the mixture into a well oiled mould, which it will quite fill, cover it with a sheet of oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, put into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly for two hours, Paris Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Put a glassful of sherry into an enamelled saucepan, with a large table-spoonful of powdered sugar and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture until it begins to thicken, then add very gradually three table- spoonfuls of thick cream; the sauce must not boU after the cream is added. Time, three or four minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Parisienne, Cream a la {see Cream a la Parisienne). Parkin, Gingerbread {see Gingerbread Parkin). Parliament or "Parley" Cakes.— Put two ounces of fresh butter into an caitlien jar with one pound of best treacle, and place the jar near the fire until the butter is dissolved. Pour the warmed liquid upon one pound of flour, add a table-spoonful of powdered ginger, a piece of pearlash the size of a nut, and a little alimi; beat the mixture until it is smooth, then put it in a cool place until the next day. RoU it out thin, cut it into oblong squares, and bake these on a buttered tin in a moderate oven. Time to bake, fi-om twenty miniites to half an hour. Probable cost, about 8d. for this quantity. Parliament Pudding. — ^Hiisk the yolks of seven and the whites of four eggs weU, first separately and afterwards together. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar with a pint of water, skim it carefully. When it is a clear 8\-rup, pour it over the eggs, add the strained juice of a large lemon, and the yellow part of half of it, which has been rubbed'upon sugar and powdered. Beat the mixture for several minutes, and whilst boating shako in gradually half a pound of dried flour. Take care there ar(> nf) lunii)H in ihv. l.>attcr. Pour it into a liutterod tin, and bake it in a well-hoati>d ovi u