GAit GAR ( 243 ) thi-ee chicken queneUes, three artichoke bottoms, and three scoUops of sweetbreads. Treparo these (,ee recipe for each), let them boil for hve minutes in some good brown sauce, season rather highly, and add a glass of light vnne. When this garnish is used, it gives its name to a dish. It is, however, expensive and elaborate, and unsuitod to ordinary domestic cookery. Sulhcient for a small dish. Garnish, Asparagus for—Chop the green part of asparagus into pieces the size of a pea. Boil them until nearly tender, drain and shake them over the fii-e for ten minutes, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per hundred heads. Sufficient, tifty heads to garnish a small dish. Gamisli, Beetroot for.—Wash a beet- root thoroughly. Put it into boiling water, and let it keep boiling until a fork can be put into it with ease. Take it out, drain it, and, when it is wanted, peel it and cut it into thin slices, which may be shaped with an ordinary pastry- cutter. Time, two hours to boil. One root will garnish a large dish. Probable cost, Id. Garnish, Celery Sauce for—Wash two heads of celery, scald and drain, and cut them into pieces two inches long. Lay these in a stewpan with as much fast-boiling water as will cover them entirely, add one onion, one piece of sugar, one bay-leaf, a little salt and pepper, simmer till tender, then thicken the sauce with flour, and stir in a cupful of milk. This may be used as garnish for boiled fowls, &c. Time, half an hour to simmer the celery. Suffi- cient, two heads and a half-pint of sauce for one large fowl. Probable cost, 2d. per head. Garnish, Cocksconibs for.—Put the combs into a saucepan with plenty of cold water. Place them on the fire and stir con- stantly until the skin begins to rise. Take them ofl'.immediately, remove the skin, and throw the combs into salt and water. Change the water two or three times, and let them remain until quite white. Dry, and boil them in some good stock, flavoured with lemon-juice. Time, eight hours to prepare. Garnish, Cucumber.—Peel the cucum- ber and slice it; keep scooping out the seeds as it is cut down. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a saucepan, with two table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a little salt and pepper, and a lump of sugar. Let the ingredients stew slowly until sufficiently cooked, then strain oif the butter, pour over them a little good white sauce, and serve with steak, cutlets, &c. Time to stew, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient, one moderate-sized cucumber, with half a pint of sauce, for two pounds of cutlets. Garnish, Cucumber, for Salmon - Pickle two or three pounds of salmon, or more, if required. Season rather highly. Drain off the liquor, place the salmon on a dish, and cover it completely ^vith two or three layers of thin sUcos of fresh cucumber, from which the rind has been taken. Time, twenty minutes to slice the cucumber. Probable cost, 6d. each. Suffi- cient, one good-sized cucumber for three pounds of salmon. Garnish for Poultry, Game, &c.—Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a stew- pan, and, when it is hot, fry in it equal quantities of lean ham and kidney, either mutton or veal, cutting the meat into thin slices of equal size. IVIince a little pai-sley, strew it over these slices, add pepper and salt, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. When lightly browned on both sides, place the meat and the gravy round the poultry, (Sec, which it is intended to garnish. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, mutton kidneys, 2d. each. Sufficient, four kidneys for one large fowl. Garnish, Fowls' Livers.—Blanch the liver of the fowl, and partly boil it. Cut the bitter part away, and mince it very finely. Make half a pint of good melted butter. Let it boil, then put with it the minced liver, a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and the juice of the lemon. Where poultry is plen- tiful, and expense no object, three or four livers may be stewed in the savoury stock, strained, and placed whole, or in halves, round the dish. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the liver. Sufficient, half a pint for one good-sized fowl. ] Garnish, Pried Bread for.—Cut the i crumb of a stale loaf into slices, about a quarter ' of an inch in thickness. Stamp them out into pretty shapes with an ordinary pastry cutter, and fry them in hot butter, or lard, until lightly browned on both sides. Drain them from the fat, and put them round the dish they are intended to garnish. If they will not keep in their places, brush the under side with white of egg, mixed with a little flour. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Garnish, Green Peas for.—Boil some young green peas until tender. Drain them until quite dry, then put them into a saucepan with half an ounce of butter for a quart of peas, a little salt and pepper, and a salt- spoonful of moist sugar. Shake them over the fire for a few minutes, and pile them in the middle of a dish of cutlets. Time, fifteen minutes to boil the peas, five or ten minutes to shake them over the fire. Probable cost, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Garnish, Mushrooms for.—Cut away the giitty end of the stalk, and pure the mush- rooms. Throw them as they are done into a basin of cold water; wash them well, lift them out of the water with both hands, so as to leave the sediment at the bottom, and put them in a saucepan, with the juice of a large lemon, two table-spoonfuls of water, two ounces of fresh \)utter, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper. Shake the saucepan constantly, and let them boU for ten minutes. They may be put into a jar, and closely covered, and will keep for some time. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Garnish, Parsley Fried for.—Parsley may be best fried in the small wire baskets which are sold for the purpose. Wash, and dry it thoroughly. Put some lard, dripping, or butter into an iron stewpan, and when it is just about to boil, hold the basket in it for a second or two, then take the parsley out, and dry it before the fire. If a wire basket is not at hand, put the