ALM AMS Almonds, To Pound—Almonds pound more easily when they are blanched for two or three days before using, and kept m a warm 'ilace they should be first shghtly chopped, then thrown into a mortar, and beaten until they are quite smooth, a few drops of any suitable Uquid, such as rose-water, orange-water, white of egg, lemon-juice, or cold water, being added now and then to prevent them oilmg. Almond and Bread Pudding.— Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and six or seven bitter almonds, and allow them to simmer gently in half a pint of milk by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour, to draw out the flavour. Then pour them into four oimces of moderately stale crusts of bread. .Stir in a quarter of a pound of beef suet finely shred, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the same of flour, the finely-minced rind and the juice of a lemon, and two weU-beaten eggs. Beat the mixtui-e thoroughly, and pour it into a well-oiled mould; let it boil without stopping for three hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, lOd. Almond and Orange Ice—Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet almonds with a little orange-flower-water to prevent them oiling. Put them into a saucepan with one pint of cream and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Stir constantly tiU the egg thickens, then pour it out, let it cool, put it into the freezing-pot, and work the handle until it is sufficiently frozen. Put half a pound of loaf sugar and a cupful of water into an enamelled saucepan, with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and the thin rind of an orange. Put it on the fire and bring it to a syrup, then add to it three-quarters of a pint of orange-juice. Strain this and freeze it like the almond cream. Put a piece of cardboard into the mould, dividing it in two. Place the almond ice on one side and the orange ice on the other. Remove the card- board, close the mould, and let it remain in the ice imtil wanted. Time, half an hour to freeze. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Probable cost, 4s. Almond and Potato Pudding.— Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet al- monds and four or five bitter ones. Put them into half a pint of mUk, and allow them to simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour. Mix in smoothly half a pound of cold mealy potatoes, a quarter of a pound of butter, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture for some minutes with a wooden spoon. Put it into a weU-buttered mould, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out carefully, and serve with sifted sugar or almond sauce. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for six person?. Almond and Baisin Pudding.—Soak a cjuartcr of a pound of the stale crumb of bread in half a pint of new milk; add two table-spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, the same of currants washed and picked, a little sugar, the juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of ale. Well butter a mould or basin. Place B* raisins in rows round it with four ounces of sweet almonds blanched and split in alternate rows (the butter -will make them stick), and pour the mixture in. Put it into boiling water, and allow it to boil for three hours. Turn out and serve with wine sauce. Suffi- cient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. Alpha Eocks.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream, then stir in three-quarters of a pound of flour, six ounces of loaf sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and sliced, and one egg; mix thoroughly, then drop it in spoonfuls on a well-oiled tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon or citron-peel and currants can be added if approved. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Alum Whey.—Boil in a saucepan half a pint of new milk, and pour into it four table- spoonfuls of raisin wine. If this does not turn it, add a litfle more. Let it boil, then put it away from the fire until the curd has settled to the bottom. Pour the -whey from the curd, and boil it up once more with half a pint of water in which a tea-spoonful of powdered alum (or more if preferred) and a little sugar have been dissolved. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Amber Pudding.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of flour, six table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, sugar to taste, the finely-chopped rind of three lemons, a pinch of salt, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat all well together, fill a buttered mould, and boil four hours. Finely- shred suet may be substituted for the butter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Amber Pudding (another way).—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet without skin, and dredge a little flour over it to prevent it adhering. ]\Iix it with a quarter of a pound of flour, four ounces of bread-crumbs, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, three eggs well beaten, and three table-spoon- fuls of orange marmalade. Beat all well together, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. Serve with wine sauce. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost„ Is. 6d. Ambrose Pudding.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add to it two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of two lemons, a coflEee-cupful of new milk, three well-beaten eggs, and twenty drops of essence of almonds. In another bowl, mix two table- spoonfuls of chopped raisins, the same of currants, one ounce each of candied lemon,, orange, and citron, three large apples chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of marmalade, and a pinch of salt. Well butter a mould, place in it' a layer out of each bowl alternately, until both are emptied, and bake in a quick oven. This pudding may be eaten either hot or cold. Time, two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. American Breakfast Buns.—Take tho chiU oS" a quart<:r of a i)int of milk, and mix it