f 109 ) CAB CAB parboil them. Put them into a dish edged with a Kght crust. Add pepper and salt, and pour a little water over them. Cover them with crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of carrots, 6d. or 8d. per bunch. Sufficient, a moderate-sized pie for six persons. Carrot Pudding, Baked or Boiled. —Boil some large carrots till they are tender, pass them through a sieve, and mix one pound of the pulp with half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of finely-shred suet, and a quarter of a pound each of stoned raisins, washed currants, and brown sugar. Mix these ingredients well together, and add a little grated nutmeg, a large pinch of salt, and three eggs well beaten, together with as much new milk as will make a thick batter. If baked, put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven; if boiled, put it in a well- oiled mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil or steam it. Serve with sweet sauce. Time to bake, one hour and a half; to boil, three hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Carrot Sauce.—Take half a pint of good melted butter. Bring it to a boil, then stir into it two table-spoonfuls of mashed carrots, and a little salt and pepper. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two pounds of stewed cutlets. Carrot Soup.—Put any bones that you may have into three quarts of stock or water, with three turnips, three onions, a head of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of celery seeds, two bay-leaves, and the red part of ten good- sized carrots, cut off in slices. Stew the vege- tables till tender, then take out the carrots, pound them in a mortar, mix with them a little of the liquor, and pass them through a coarse sieve. Strain the rest of the liquid, and return it to the saiicepan; put with it the pulped carrots, and let it boil till it is as thick as pea- soup. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for six persons. Carrot Soup (another way).—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, allow it to melt, then put into it a large onion cut into thin slices, half a poimd of lean ham, also sliced, and the red part of twelve carrots grated. Let these remain over a moderate fire till they are nicely coloured, stirring them occasionally to prevent them burning. When ready, add two quarts of nicely-flavoured stock. Simmer the soup for two hours. Remove the ham, Rtrain^ the soup, and pass the carrot through a fine_ sieve, then return it to the soup; boil it again, season it with cayenne and salt, and serve. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 5d. per pint. Sufficient for six or eight pjrsons. Carrot Soup (maigre).—Take two large onions, with eight large carrots (which have been washed and scraped, the red part cut into thin_ slices and the yellow part left out), one turnip, two heads of celery, or one tea-spoonful of celery seed, and six ounces of the crumb of bread. Put three quarts of water into a isaucepan, with a piece of soda the size of a pea. Let this boil; then put in the above ingredients, with a little cayenne pepper, salt^ and mace. When they are soft, take out the vegetables and rub them through a coarse sieve; replace them, and add to the soup, when boiling, a large breakfast-cupful of cream or new milk. The soup should bo as thick as cream. Time, two and a half hours. Probable cost, IJd. per pint. Sufficient for six persons. Carrots (a la Flamande).—Take a bunch of young carrots, which alone are suitable, wash them well, cut off the heads and points, and place them in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out, drain, rub off the skin with a coarse cloth, cut them into very thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with a cupful of water, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. Cover them closely, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally in order that they may be equally cooked. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a cupful of cream, and a dessei-t-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Draw the pan from the fire for a couple of minutes, taking off the cover, put a table-spoonful or two of the liquid with the eggs and cream, then pour the whole gradually into the saucepan. Stir the sauce until it thickens, and serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Time to stew the carrots, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per bvmch. Sufficient for four or five persons. Carrots (a la Flamande), another way.— Boil whole, six large carrots until they are quite tender; then stamp them out in stars, wheels, dice, or any other shape, and stew them in a little good melted butter with five small onions, a table-spoonful of finely-chopped pars- ley, and a little salt and pepi^er. Serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Sufficient, six large carrots for eight persons. Carrots (a, la Peine).—Choose some fine large carrots and cut them into pieces about three inches long; make them flat at one end and narrow and roimd at the other, so as to give them the form of cones. Boil them until nearly tender, then place them upright in a saucepan with some good gravy, leaving about an inch of the tops uncovered to prevent their being broken. Boil them until they are sufficiently cooked, take them out, and arrange them in a dish. Thicken the gravy with a little brown thicken- ing, add a pinch of salt and a small piece of sugar to it, and pour it over them. Time, one hour and a half. Carrots, Boiled.—Wash and prepare the carrots. If they are verj- large they shoiild be halved and sliced. Throw them into plenty of boiling water with salt in it, keep them boiling, and when a fork can be easily pushed into them they are ready. They may be boiled in the same saucepan with beef, and a few should be placed round the dish and the rest sent to table in a tiu-een. Melted butter generally accom- panies them. Many persons are fond of cold carrots with cold beef. They may be easily warmed up by covering them closely and putting the dish in which they are placed into boiling water. Time, young carrots, half an hour; fully-grown, from one and a half to two hours. Sufficient, four large carrots for six persons.