( 615 ) PAS PAS Blab or slate, if at hand—if not, on a clean pastry-board—miiko a hole in the centre, and put into it half a tea-spoonful of salt, and rather less than half a pint of water. The exact quantity of water cannot be given, but ex- perience will soon enable the cook to determine when the paste is sufliciently stiff. It should be mixed in gradually with a knife, and should form a clear smooth paste, being worked lightly with the hands, vmtil it ceases to adhere to them or to the board. Lot it remain on the slab for two minutes. Have ready prepared three- quarters of a pound of butter, freed from salt and moisture. Flatten the paste till it is an inch thick, lay the butter in the centre, and fold over the four sides of the paste, so as to form a square, and completely hide the butter. Leave this to cool for two or three minutes, then dredge the slab and the paste with flour, and roU the paste out till it is three feet in length, and be especially careful that the butter does not break through the flour. {See what was said above on this subject.) Fold over a third of the length from one end, and lay the other third upon it. This folding into three is called giving one turn. Put the paste in a cool place for ten minutes, give it two more turns, rest again, and let it have other two. This will be in all five turns, and these will generally be found sufficient. If, however, the pastry is to be used for vol-au-vents or patties, six or seven times will be required. Gather the paste together and it is ready for use, and may be used at once, or left till next day. Handle it aU the time as lightly as possible, and remember to dredge a little flour over it, the board, and the rolling-pin every time it is rolled, to keep it from sticking. French cooks mix the yolks of two eggs with the flour and water in the first instance. If a very rich paste is required, a poimd of butter may be put with a pound of flour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Paste, Puff (an easy way of making).— Dry and sift the flour, and prepare the butter as in the last recipe. Equal weights of butter and flour may be used, or three-quarters of a poimd of butter to each pound of flour. Put a little salt into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring gradually into it with a knife rather less than half a pint of water. RoU it out till it is an inch thick. Divide the butter into quarters: break one of these quarters into small pieces, and sprinkle these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and turn it over, then repeat the process, until all the butter is incorporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for ten minutes between each two roUs. Equal parts of lard and butter may be used for this paste, and if the yolk of an egg or the strained juice of half a lemon be mixed with the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound {see also Puff Paste, Household). Paste, Rich Cream, for Tarts.—Dry and sift a pound of flour, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar. Rub into it a quarter of a pound of sweet butter, and mix gradually with it sufficient cream to mako it into a smooth paste. If cream cannot be had, the yolks of two eggs may be beaten up with a little milk, and substituted for it. Roll the paste out two or three times, and use as quickly as possible. Probable cost, if made with cream. Is, 6d. per pound. Paste, Scraps of, How to use.—If any scraps or shreds of paste are left after making pies or tarts, gather them into one lump, and roll this out until it is as thin as possible. Stamp it into fancy shapes, prick these lightly with a fork, place them on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven untU they are firm, without being browned. Sift powdered sugar over them, and serve prettily arranged round a dish of stewed fruit. Time, about eight minutes to bake. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies.—Put a pound of dried and sifted flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Rub half a pound of butter, or butter and lard, into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring in rather more than a quarter of a pint of water or milk : the yolks of two eggs may be added or not. RoU the paste out once only; handle it lightly, and use it as required. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies (another way).—Mix a smaU tea-spoonful of salt with a pound of dried flour. Rub in four ounces of butter and four ounces of lard or good beef dripping. Add a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar. Make the whole into a stiff paste by stirring in a little water, roll it out lightly once only, and it is ready for use. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. Paste, Short, for Tarts and Fruit Pies (another way).—To one pound and a quarter of fine flour add ten ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of two beaten eggs, and three ounces of sifted loaf sugar; mix up together with half a pint of new milk, and knead it weU. This crust is frequently iced. Paste, Suet, for Boiled Puddings. —Chop very finely six ounces of beef suet, freed from skin and sinew, and whilst chopping it keep dredging a Uttle flour over it. Mix with it one pound of flour, and add as much cold water as wiU make the mixture up into a firm smooth paste. RoU it out, and it is ready for use. If a richer crust be required, a larger proportion of suet may be used, but this is quite good enough for ordinary pur- poses. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Paste, Suet, for Boiled Puddings (another way).—Pick and chop A'ery fine halt a pound of beef suet, add to it one pound and a quarter of flour, and a Uttle salt; mix it with half a pint of milk or water, and beat it weU with the rolling-pin, to incorporate the suet with the flour. Paste, Transparent, for Tarts, &c. —Wash three-quarters of a pound of best salt butter in two or three waters, and press it Ayell to free it from moisture. Put it in a saucepan over a gentle fi^e, until it ia melted without