CHI ( 130 ) CHI fry thorn in hot hutter or lard. Put a broak- fast-cupf111 of good stock into a saucejuin, with a moderato-sizod onion stuck with two cloves, u hay-lcaf, a Mttlo salt and popper, tho juico of a lonion, and a little parsley and tarragon chop- ped small. Lot this sauce boil well, and then eti-ain it. Serve tho pieces of cliickon piled •upon a dish, covered with a napkin, gar- nished with fried parsley, and send tho above sauce, or, if preferred, tomato sauce, to table in a tureen. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the chicken. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, Pried (another way).—Take tho remains of a cold chicken, cut it into neat pieces, brush a little oil over each piece, and strew over it, rather thickly, salt and curry powder. Melt a little butter in a frynng-pan, and fry some onions, cut into thin strips about half an inch long and the eighth of an inch wide. Fry them slowly, and keep them in the pan until they are a dark-bro'WTi coloxir, and quite dry. They will require a little care, as they must on no account be burnt. , Fry the chicken, strew the onion over it, and serve with slices of lemon. Time to fiy the chicken, ten minutes. Allow two or three pieces of chicken for each person. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the cold chicken. Chicken Fritters.—Cut the meat from a dressed chicken into thin neat slices. Flour these well, or, if preferred, draw them through egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs which have been mixed with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Melt a little butter in a small frying- pan ; when hot put in the slices of meat, and cook them gently, turning them once or twice during the process. When brown, pile them on a dish, and send brown sauce or tomato sauce to table with them. If preferred, the slices may be dipped in batter and fried in hot fat, like Kromeskies; or, to make them more tasty, they may before being floured be put into a marinade make cf a little chopped parsley and onion, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Chicken in Peas.—Take a fresh young chicken. Cut it into neat joints, and lay them in a saucepan with a quart of fine fresh peas, measured after they are shelled. Add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a bunch of parsley, a pinch of salt, a small pinch of popper, and a small onion. Pour a cupful of good gravy over them, and simmer gently imtil the liquor is exhausted. Then mix a small lump of butter with, a tea-spoonful of flour, and put tliis to the peas, which should be boiling when it is put in. Shake the sauce- pan about until the peas are nicely thickened, and serve them piled high in a dish, with the pieces of chicken round. The chicken and peas must be gently stewed. Probable cost: chicken, 2s. 6d,; peas, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken, Marinaded.—Cut a cold rf)asted chicken into neat joints, season them Avcll in salt and cayenne, strew over them rihopped onion and parsley, and soak them for a,n hour in equal parts of lemon-juice and oil. Turn them frequently. Drain them, and dip each piece in a light batter, or else in white of eggs beaten up, and fry them in hot butter or lard until hghtly browned. Gamihh with fried ])arsl()y. Sulliciont, one chicken for two or three persons. JVobable cost, 2b. 6d. Time to fry, ten minutes. Chicken, Minced,—Take the remains of a cold chicken, cut off all the meat, and mince it flnely. Put a breakfast-cupful of white stock into a saucepan, thicken it vrith a little flour, and let it boil for twenty minutes; then add half a dozen mushrooms chopped small, half a pint of cream or new milk, a httlo salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the minced chicken. When the mushrooms are cooked, serve as quickly as possible, with toasted sijipets round the dish. Time, forty minutes. I'robable cost, 8d., if made with mUk, exclusive of tho cold chicken. Sufficient for thix-e persons. Chicken, Mushroom Sauce for.- Put the legs and neck of the chicken, with any trimmings of meat that are to bo had, a small piece of mace, six or eight peppercorns, a bunch of savoury herbs, a drachm of celery-seed I bruised, a piece of thin lemon-rind, and a boned I anchovy, into a saucepan with a pint of water, \ and let the liquid simmer down to half a pint. Prepare half a pint of young mushrooms, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, half a pint of the liquid strained, and one gill of cream or new milk. Put the sauce over a good fire, and stir it imtil it is sufficiently thick. Pour it round boiled chickens. Time, exclusive of the stock, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for a couple of good-sized chickens. Chicken, Paaada (Invalid Cookery).— Take a fresh young chicken, and boil it, until quite tender, in sufficient water to cover it. Take off aU the meat from the bones, and pound it in a mortar until quite smooth, with a Httle of the liquid it was boiled in, and add some salt, nutmeg, and a very little grated lemon-rind. Boil this gently for a few minutes with sufficient liquid to make it of the consistency of thick custard. Time, twenty-five minutes to boil the chicken. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. A verj- little of this contains a great deal of nourishment. Chicken Patties.—Pick the meat from a cold chicken, and mince it very finely. To every six ounces of chicken allow three oimces of lean ham also minced, a piece of butter about the size of an egg rolled in flour, a small tea- cupful of cream or new milk, and the same of white stock, two pinches of salt, one of pepper, a quarter of a small nutmeg grated, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon finely grated, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. A few ! nunced mushrooms are a great improvement. Put these into a saucepan, and stir them gently for ten minutes, taking care that they do not burn. Lino some patty-pans with good crust. Put a piece of paper crumpled up or a crust of bread into each to support tho top while baking, and place a cover of crust over it. WTien sufficiently baked, take off the top crust, remove the broad or the paper, three-parts fill the patty with the mixture, replace the cover, being careful not to break it, and fasten it with white of egg.