CAN CAL ( 102 ) added, and fasten the liver and liglits socuroly round it. Put it before a moderate tiro, and basto it well whilo it is roasting. Wbon it is coolcod enough, put it on a hot dish witli melted butter, whieh has boon flavoured witli a gbiss of port and the juico of a lemon, round it. Time to bake, from two to throe hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Calf's Pluck (another way).—Stuff the heart as in the last recipe, and bake it in a moderate oven with a little boiled vermicelli laid over it. When it is sufficiently cooked, put it on a hot dish, slice and fry the liver, lights, and a few rashers of bacon, and place thorn round, and pour a good brown gravy over the whole. Time to bake, two hours, or ac- cording to size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six persons. Calf's Sweetbreads.—Calf's sweet- breads should always be soaked for an hom- er two in cold water, which must be changed once or twice, then put into boiling water for about ten minutes, till they are firm and round but not hard; take them out and put into cold water again until they are wanted to be dressed. This should be done whether they are intended to be stewed, fried, roasted, baked, or cooked in any other way. Calf's Sweetbreads, Baked.—Pre- pare the sweetbreads as above. Diy them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, place two or three lumps of butter or nice beef dripping on and aroimd them, and bake them in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting them frequently diu-ing the process. Serve them on a slice of toast, and pour a good brown gravy round them. Sufficient, two sweetbreads for three persons. Calf s Sweetbreads, Baked (another yray).—Prepare the sweetbreads as above. Take them from the cold water, wipe them dry, brush them over with egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, sprinkle a little butter over them, and bread- crumb them again. Put them with two ounces of dissolved butter in a baking-tin, and bake them in a quick oven. Baste them frequently tin done enough. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour a good brown gravy round but not over them. Time to bake, from half to three quarters of an hour, till brightly browned. Probable cost, varying with the market. Suf- ficient, two sweetbreads for three persons. Calfs Sweetbreads, Stewed.—Put two sweetbreads, prepared as above, into a stewpan with some nicely-flavoiu-ed stock, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour or more. Take them out and place them on a hot dish. Draw the gravy from the fire for a minute or two, and add to it very gradually the yolk of an egg and four table- spoonfuls of cream. Put this over a gentle fire until the sauce thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Just before serving, squeeze into it the juico of a lemon. Sufficient for three persons. CalTs Tails.—Cut four calf's tails in pieces an inch and a half long, fry them in boUing fat till they are lightly browned, then stew thom in good gravy till they axe quite tender. Serve them with thick brown sauce round them, and some stewed mushrooms on a separate dish. When niunhrooiiis camiot bo obtained, put a table-spooniul of ketchup into the gravy. Time to stew, two houis. I'robablo cost, 9d. each. Sufficient for six persons. Cambridge Drink.—This agreeable and refreshing beverage is made by mixing equal quantities of home-brewed ale and soda-water. Ginger beer may bo used instead of sodjx- watcr. Cambridge Milk Punch. — Put the thin rind of luili a Hinull leiuon into a pint of new mdk, with twelve or fourteen good-sized lumps of sugar (if the Swiss milk is used, the sugar must be omitted). Let it boil very slowly to draw out the flavour of the lemon, then take it from the fire, remove the rind, and stir into it the yolk of an egg mixed with a table-spoon- ful of cold milk, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and four of rum. Whisk these thoroughly together, and when the mixture is frothed, it is ready to serve. Time to prepare, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the brandy and rum. Sufficient for a pint and a half of pimch. Camomile Tea.—Pour a pint of boiUng water over five drachms of camomile flowers. Let them soak for ten minutes, and then strain. If taken warm, camomile tea acts as a gentle emetic. When taken cold it is often bene- ficial in cases of dyspepsia, hysteria, and head-ache. Camp Vinegar.—Chop small two cloves of garlic, and put them into a quart bottle with four tea-spoonfuls of soy, six of walnut ketchup, and half an oimce of cayenne. Fill the bottle with vinegar, and let it remain for three weeks; then strain and bottle it for use, being careful to seal the corks. Probable cost, 7d. per pint. Sufficient for a quart. Camp Yeast.—Boil four quarts of water with two ounces of hops and half a pound of flour for twenty minutes, stirring it all the time. Strain the liquid, and mix with it half a pound of sugar, and, when it is lukewarm, half a pint of fresh yeast. Put it in a warm place to ferment. Pour off the thin liquor from the top, and bottle it for use. Time to ferment, eight hoxurs. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. A cupful of yeast will be sufficient for fom* quartern loaves. Canadian Cakes.—Mix thoroughly one pound of the best flour, quarter of a pound of maizcna, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Bub in three-quarters of a pound of butter, and add eight eggs well beaten, half an oimce of candied peel chopped very small, a wine-glassful of brandy, and half a pound of cmrants. Beat these ingredients well together, and put the mixture into shallow tins, which must be lined with paper dipped in oil or butter, and bake in a good oven. Timo to bake, half an hotir. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four cakes.