( 490 ) ox OXF picklo and wash it woll. If tho root hm not boon cut away, tako off tho rough parts. Put half a pound of fat bacon at the bottom of a deep round pan just largo enough for tho pur- pose, and then a pound of runip-steak; upon those place the tongue, which has been rolled and bound with tape. Cover it with a cow-hool, boilod luid boned, another slice of stoak and bacon, and season tho whole with a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered cloves, two tea- spoonfiils of white popper, and a bay-leaf. Add two onions and a carrot, sliced, a bunch of Bweet herbs, and pour over tho whole a quart of water, two glassf uls of sherry, and half a pint of mild ale. Cover the pan closely, and place it in a moderate oven. When the tongue is sufdciently cooked take it out, put a thin board with a weight upon it over tho meat, and leave it until the foUo^ving day. Turn it out, and glaze neatly before serving. If wished, pai-t of tho tongue can be eaten hot, and the remainder afterwards pressed. Time, three hours and a half to bake the meat. Probable cost, Ua. Sufficient for eighteen or twenty persons. Ox Tongue Toast (a breakfast relish). —Mince two ounces of cold boiled tongue very finely. Mix with it a hard-boiled egg chopped small, and a pinch of cayenne and powdered mace. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter, add the tongue, &c., and stir all over the fire until the mixture is quite hot, then spread it thickly on a slice of buttered toast, and serve at once. Time, three or four minutes to heat the mix- ture. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Oxford Bishop.—Rub three oimces of sugar in lumps on the rind of a fresh lemon vmtil all the yellow part is taken off. Put the pieces of sugar into a jug, and strain over them half the lemon-juice. Score the rind of another lemon or of a Seville orange, stick into it half a dozen cloves, and roast it before a slow fire. Put two drachms each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon, ginger, and mace into a saucepan, with half a pint of water, and simmer very gently for half an hour. Pour the liquid, without straining it, upon the roasted lemon, add the flavoured sugar, and a bottle of good port from which part of the spirit has been burnt out. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, and serve hot, with the spices and lemon in the punch. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the port, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of punch. Oxford Dumplings or Puddings.— Shred a quarter of a pound of kidney suet rery finely. Add a pinch of salt, two ounces of stale bread-crumbs, two ounces of dried flour, four ounces of picked and dried currants, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a table- spoonfal of minced lemon-rind, and half a nutmeg, grated. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Moisten them to a stiff paste with a little milk and two well-beaten eggs, divide the mixture into dumplings, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Servo with wime aauco. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient icT five ijr six. persons. Oxford Grace Cup.—Take the peel of a louKjn, extract the juice, and cut the peel into thi?! hHccs. Put it in a bowl or jug, pour over it a pint and a half of strong /wme-brewed beer and a bottle of shcirry; grate a nutmeg into tho cup; Bwoeton to taste; stir till the sugar is dissolved, and then add three or four slices of bread, toasted browji. Sot it on one (side for two hours before straining ofi'. Oxford John, Mutton.—Cut one pound and a half of very thin collops from a well-kept log of mutton. Free them entirely from skin and sinew, season them with pejjper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and dip them into a mixture composed of two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallots. Frj' the seasoned coUops in three ounces of butter, and when they are lightly browned on both sides, cover them with good brown gravy, and add a piece of butter, rolled thickly in flour, and a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Let them remain on the fire a few minutes until the sauce is on the point of boiling, then turn them on a hot dish, and serve with sippets. If the coUops are allowed to boU. they will prove hard. Time, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oxford John, Mutton (another way).— Melt some butter in a stewpan (say two or three ounces), cut verj'^ thin slices from a leg of mutton into round collops, season these with a mixture of pepper, salt, minced shallot, savoury herbs, and parsley, and a blade of poujided mace. Put the collops into the stew- pan, and keep them stirred or moved round in the pan until done, when, add a breakfast-cup- ful of good meat gravy, the juice of half a small lemon, and an ounce of butter, kneaded into a dessei"t-spoonful of flour; stir, and sinuner five or six minutes, but not longer, or they will become tough. Time, twenty minutes to stew. Oxford Pancakes.—IMix three table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with three well-beaten eggs, and haK a pint of now milk. Add a pinch of salt, an ounce and a half of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Fry the pancakes as thin as possible in hot fat. Sift powdered sugar over them when they are on the dish, and send a cut lemon to table with them. These pancakes should be made an hour or two before they are wanted. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oxford Pudding.—Wash six ounces of best Carohna rice in two or three waters. Drain it well, and put it into a pudding-cloth, with three ounces of picked currants, or, if preferred, two large apples, pared, core3., and sliced, and a little grated nutmeg. Tie the cloth loosely to give the rice room to swell, and let the pudding boil quickly uniil done enougli. Serve with sweet siiuco. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cist, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons.