( 108 ) CAR CAE half thoir bulk in 'bread.crumlts, tho finoly- clioppod liiul of a lomon, a littlo salt and luiyoniui, and a littlo ft-rated nutmog. Mako thoni up into cakos, and bako in a Dutch ovon witli a littlo butter, till thoy aro hot. Time to bako, a fow minutcH. Carp Roe, Fricasseed.—Take (ivo or BIX roes, strew over them a littlo salt and pepiier, and two tablo-spoonfula of finoly- chopped parsley. Molt three ounces of butt(;r in a stowpan, and put in the roes with a dozen small mushrooms, tl\e juice of a small lomon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let them stow gently for ton minutes, then add a wine-glass of white wine, and a lump of butter tho size of an egg rolled in flour. Let these simmer for ten minutes more, draw tho pan from tho fire for a minute, and add half a cupful of cream or new milk. Serve hot, with the sauce poured over the roes. Time, half an horn-. Sufficient for two or three persons. Carp, Sauce for.— Dissolve about one ounce of butter in a saucepan, and stir into it very smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little gravy, a cupful of good cream, and two anchovies chopped finely. Let it boil, stir it well, then add a table-spoonful of soy, season ■with salt, and, just before serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the sauce. Carp, Stewed.—Cleanse three or four fiah thoroughly. "Wash them well with a little vinegar in the water to draw out the blood. Split the fish, and cut them into good-sized pieces. Rub them well with a little salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, a dessert - spoonful of fijiely - chopped parsley, a cupful of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a stick of horse-radish. Let them simmer gently for an houi* or more. Take out the slices of fish, and strain the gravy. Add to it a cupful of cream or new milk, let it boil np, then di'aw it from tho fire for a minute, or two, and add gradually the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream. Pour the boiling sauce over the slices of carp, and make a promi- nent display of the roe. Carp, Stewed (another way).—Cleanse a carp thoroughly, and cut it into slices, then put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of bacon and a quarter of a pound of veal cut into sL'ces, four small onions stuck with four cloves, two carrots, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen chives, and, if liked, half a clove of garlic. The vegetables must be sliced and the herbs chopped. Pour a glass- ful of white wine over the carji, and let it simmer for two or three minutes, then add equal parts of white wine and stock, sufficient to cover the fish and vegetables. Let them simmer gently for an hour, thicken tho sauce with a little flour and butter, add popper, salt, and nutmeg, and boil it, stirring continually, until it is a proper consistency. Time to prepare, one hour and a half. Sufficient for one or two persons. Carp, Stewed (another way). —Clean thoroughly two carp. Save tho roes, and fry tho fish lightly in hot Lird, lay them in a stew- pan, and cover with a mixture composed equallv ot wine and stock. Stew gently until suffi- ciently cooked, then strain the gmvy, add salt and popper, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the juico of half a lomon, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Poui- the sauce over the fish, and garnish with fried roes and toasted Bippets. Time to stew, according to size. Carrier Sauce.—Pour a breakfast-cupful of good brown gravy over a tablospoonful of finely-minced shallots. Add a little salt and cayenne, and a table-spoonful of chili vinegar. Simmer gently for about thirty minutes, till the shallots are sufficiently cooked, then strain the sauce, and serve with mutton. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. _ Carrot. — This vegetable is ahnost inva- riably sent to table with boiled beef. When the cari'ots are young, they should be washed and brushed, not scraped, before cooking— and old carrots also are better prepared in this way—then rubbed with a clean coarse cloth after boiling. Yoimg carrots need to be cooked about half an hour, and fully-grown ones from one hour and a half to two hours. The red is the best part. In order to ascertain if the root is sufficiently cooked, stick a fork into it. When they feel soft they are ready for serving. They are excellent for fiavouring, and contain a great amount of nourishment. Carrot Cheesecakes.—Boil a moderate- sized carrot until tender. Pound it in a mortar, and pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Mix with it an ounce of oiled butter, two des- sert-spoonfuls of washed currants, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a table-spoonful of fresh curd, and a well-beaten egg. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, about Id. each. Carrot Fritters. — Boil a large carrot until it is quite tender. Beat it to a pulp, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of cream, the same of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and two eggs well beaten. Fry the mixture in fritters in hot lard or drip- ping, and serve them with good brown aauce. Sufficient for two persons. Carrot Jam (to imitate Apricot Jam).— Choose young, deep-coloured carrots; wash and scrape them, then boil them imtil they are quite tender. Rub them through a colander, then through a sieve, and to every pound of pulji allow one pound of sifted white sugar, half a dozen hitter almonds chopped small, and the grated lind and juico of a lemon. Put these ingredients into a preserving-pan, and let them boil for a few minutes, stiiTing them constantly, and removing the scum as it rises. Wlien cold, add a wine-glassful of brandy for every pound of pulp. Put the jam into jars, and tie it up carefully. With the addition of the brandy, it will keep for some time. Time, six or eight minutes to boil aU together. Carrot Pie.—This is a favourite dish with vegetarians. Wash and slice tho carrots, and