CHO CHR ( 136 ) then add, gradually, five ounces of fine flour. Stir the paste quickly till it leaves the sides of the saucepan. Draw it back, and let it cool, then stir four eggs into it, one at a time, with a pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of orange- flower water. Beat it well until the paste is quite fii-m and smooth. Make the paste into small balls about the size of a walnut, put them on a floured tin, and bake in a slow and steady oven. Dry them before the fire, and make a little slit in the side to put jam into. This pastry may be made into any shape, and it swells very much in baking. Time to bake the choux, about one hour. They should be quite crisp and hard when served. Suflficicnt for a moderate-sized dish. Choux (another way).—Make the pastry as in the last recipe. When the little balls are baked, cut a small round piece off the end of each, scoop out a little of the inside, and fill the cavity with some iced coffee. Replace the piece which was cut off, and dry as before. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Chowder (an American dish). — Fry a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, which has been cut into dice, and a small minced onion, in hot butter or lard, till they are a deep brown. Put half of this at the bottom of a saucepan, place over it a soup-plateful of mashed po- tatoes, and over that some thick slices of xm- cooked sea bass or turbot, about four pounds in weight, the remainder of the pork and onions, and on the top, a second layer of potatoes. Season with half a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, five or six cloves, a table-spoonful of savoury herbs—of which one-third should be thyme, one-third parsley, and one-third marjoram—a tea-spoonful of salt, and four or five white peppercorns. Pour over all half a bottle of claret, half a bottle of ketchup, and svifficient water to cover it. Let it simmer gently until the fish is cooked. Pro- bable cost, pork, 1 Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Christmas Bun, Scottish.—Put one tea-spoonful of salt into two pounds of flour, and rub into it three-quarters of a pound of butter; add a little warm water and two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and knead it into a Ught paste. Put aside about one-third of this paste, and work into the rest one pound and a half of currants, stoned and dried, two pounds of stoned raisins, foiir ounces of blanched almonds chopped small, half a pound of candied lemon, citron, and orange together, aU finely minced, and a quarter of an ounce each of white pepper, ground ginger, and powdered cinnamon. When these are weU worked in, shape them into a cylindrical form like a cheese. Roll out the paste which was set aside, and put it round the bun so as to make a sort of case for it. Wet the edges, and fasten them together to make them lie quite flat. Prick some holes in the top, and run a skewer from the top to the bottom in two or three places. Flour some thick paper and wrap the bun in it, binding it well with tape to keep it in shape. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half or more. Probable cost, 3s. for this quantity. Christmas Cake. —Beat one pound o2 butter into a cream, and mix with it three eggs well beaten, two pounds of flour-, one pound of currants stoned and dried, one pound of sugar, five small tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, and a quarter of a jnnt of milk. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. Tliis is a very good cake if intended to bo used soon, but it soon gets dry, and should not be kept in a damp pliico. Time to bake, about two hom-B. Sufficient for a good-sized cake. Probable cost, 28. 8d. Christmas Cake (another way).—Take five pounds of flour, mix with it a dessert- spoonful of salt, rub in three-quarters of a pound of butter, and ono pound of lard. I'ut in an ounce and a lialf of German yeast or half a pint of good fresh brewers' yeast, and knead as for common bread. If there is any difficulty about the yeast, baking powder may be used. CBBISTMAS CASE. allowing a heaped tea-spoonful of ordinary baking powder for every pound of material. If yeast is used, let the dough rise before adding the other ingredients. Mix in three poimds of currants, one pound and a haK of moist sugar, a whole nutmeg, a quarter of a poimd of candied lemon-peel fbiely minced, a table- spoonful of brandy, and four eggs well beaten. Butter the tins, and line them well with buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per cake. Sufficient for four cakes. Christmas Dish (suitable for supper or luncheon at any time).—Take one pound of Swiss roll or sponge biscuit and half a pound of macaroons. Cut the roU into slices, and place these and the macaroons lightly at the bottom of a deep dish. Put half a pint of red currant jelly, half a pint of sherry, half a pint of raisin wine, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar into a saucepan, and, when bail- ing, pour it over the biscuits. Let it. soak for some time, then pour over it a thick custard. Ornament withalmonds, blanched and quartered, stuck thickly into the custard. This dish is also very good without the custard. Time to soak, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 38., exclusive of the wine.