MUL (431 ) MUM Mullagatawny Soup, Rabbit—Cut up two young rabbits into small pieces, fry them in butter until they ai-e nearly dressed enough, with four onions sliced finely. Place these in a Btewpan, pour in a quart of stock, and simmer for an houi-. Then take out the rabbit, and strain off the onions; replace the rabbit in the stewpan with two more quarts of stock, as good as you wish to make it, and when it boils stir in two table-spoonfuls of curry powder, flavoured as you may prefer; add mango pickles, &c., just before serving. Fowl may be served in the same way. Mullagatawny Vegetable.—Take five or six young vegetable-marrows, and the same of middle-sized cucumbers, pare, cut them lengthwise into slips, empty their seeds, and divide them again into dice. Paie and core four sour apples or tomatoes, and slice a couple of Spanish onions. These last fry, slightly broAvn- ing them, in a large stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of good fresh bxitter. Throw in the other vegetables before the butter has acquired much colour, and stir them gently roimd. Shake the pan frequently, and stew gently over a slow fire until half done, when add from two to three large table-spoonfuls of good curry powder, and stew the vegetables until they will pulp, pom-ing in boiling veal stock enough to cover. Strain thi-ough a coarse hair-sieve, pressing the pulp with a wooden spoon. Add more stock, or even water, if stock be not at hand, according to the quantity of soup required, and any additional seasoning — salt, cayenne, or lemon-juice. Thicken if necessary with a very little ground rice or arrowroot, and serve with rice, if liked; but it should be, if properly made, quite thick enough without any addition. Time, two hours to prepare. Sufficient, one quart for six persons. Mulled Wine.—To a bottle of wine add five ounces of loaf sugar, three cloves, and the sixth part of a nutmeg, grated. Place the wine in a bright tin pot with a lid. Keep it over a gentle heat till it is nearly boiling: then send to table in a hot silver jug with a Ud. Mulled "Wine (a French recipe).—Take a wine-glassful and a half of water, quarter of an ounce of spice, cinnamon, slightly bruised ginger, and cloves, mixed, and three ounces of sugar. Mix these ingredients, and boil till they form a thick sjTup, taking care that they do not bum. Pour in a pint of port wine ; stir gently till just on the point of boiling; then serve immediately. If a strip or two of orange- rind cut very thin is added to wine thus prepared, it gives the flavour of bishop. In making this beverage in France, light claret is substituted for port wine: the better sorts of vin ordinaire are excellent thus prepared. Mullet, Grey {f>ee Grey Mullet). Mullet, Grey, Boiled. — Put large muUot into cold water, salted in the proportion of two ounces of salt to every two quarts of water. Bring the water quickly to the boil, then simmer until done. Small mullet, like other small fish, should be put into almost boiling water. Serve with anchovy or caper sauce, and plain melted butter. Time to boil, a quarter to half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. per i)ound. Mullet, Grey, Broiled.-Scale, clean, and take out the gills and inside. A fish of I about two pounds will be best for this mode of cooking. Score the mullet on both sides, lay it on a dish, sprinkle with salt, and pour three table-spoonfuls, of oil over it. Turn on the dish-, di-ain, and when to be broiled, fold in oiled paper or not; the fire should be mode- rate and even. The scores should not be more than a quarter of an inch deep. When sent to table put from six to eight ounces of maitre d'hotel butter on it. Time to broil, half an hour. Mullet, Hed.—These fish may be roast, baked, or broiled, and are excellent either way. Scrape and wash, then wipe them quickly. The gills and fins only are removed, but the inside is dressed with the fish, the liver being a much- esteemed morsel. Fold each mullet in oiled or buttered paper, and bake about twenty-five minutes. Serve Avithout the paper, and with sauce in a tureen. Make the sauce thus :—Into a little good melted butter pour the liquor which has oozed from the fish, add a glassfiil of wine, white or red, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, from Is to 2s. each. Mullet, Red (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Clean four red muUet, and wipe them quickly. Score them to the depth of a quarter of an inch, and lay them to steep in a small wine- glassful of salad-oil. Add a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper, an onion, sliced, and a bunch of parsley in sprigs. "When the fish have become well saturated, drain and put them on the gridiron. Let the fire be bright and even. In ten minutes the mullet ■will be done. Brown alike on both sides. Serve hot on a dish, with maitre d'hotel butter under them; about seven or eight ounces will be enough. Time, half an hour to steep in oil. Probable cost, Is. to 28. each. Mullet, Stewed.—Make a sauce as fol- lows :—Put together in a stewpan three glassf uls of hock and sherrj' wine mixed, the fonner to be two-thii-ds of the quantity given. Slice thinly a small carrot and turnip, also half a small lemon ; add a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a bunch of thyme and parsley. Lay in the fish, and stew gently over a slow fire. Strain the gravy, thicken with butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pepper, and serve the fish on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to stew. Pro- bable cost. Is. to 28. each. Sufficient, thi'ee fish for this sauce. Mum. —Take eighty gallons of water, brew it with seven bushels of wheaten malt, one bushel of oat-malt, and one bushel of ground beans. When it has worked or fermented awhile in a hogshead not too full, put into it of inner rind of fir three pounds ; one pound of tops of fir and birch ; thioe handfuls of carduus henedictm; a handful or two of flowers from xolis; bumet, botony, marjoram, ponny-royal, Nvild