( 127 ) CHI OHI inffredients thoroughly, hottle the preparation, and cork tightly. The longer this sauce is kept the better it wiU bo. Time to prepare, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d per pint. It is used like mustard with cold meat, and for sauces and gravies. Chichester Pudding.—Rub the rind of half a lemon upon a quai-ter of a pound ot loal sugar, powder this, and mix it with a crumbled roll, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and a des- sert-spoonful of lemon-juice. After mixing the ingredients thoroughly, add the whites of two of°the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Stir the mixture over the fire to a thin batter, then pour it into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, The.—Those chickens are the best which have small bones, short legs, and clean, white-looking flesh. Chickens with white legs should be boiled, those with black legs roasted. The flesh of chickens is generally con- sidered more digestible than any other animal food. These birds are cheapest in November. Spring chickens are to be obtained in April. It is better to kill them one or two days before they are dressed. Chickens are always better for being singed, as it gives firmness to the flesh. Chicken (a la Creci).—Cut half a pound of bacon into dice, and fry these lightly, then put them into a saucepan, and with them twelve shallots, twelve button mushrooms, two large carrots cut into pieces the size and shape of a walnut, and twelve chestnuts roasted and peeled. Let these be already dressed when they are put into the saucepan. Add the flesh of a chicken cut into fillets, cover it with good brown gravy, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour, when a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a blade of mace pounded, and a glass of Madeira, or any white wine, may be added. Simmer for five minutes longer, take out the chicken, and place it on a dish; if necessary, thicken the gravy a little, then pour it over the meat. Place the chestnuts, carrots, &c., round it, together with a few mushrooms. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Pro- bable cost, chicken, 28.6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Chicken (M'Estragon).—Put some tarra- gon leaves in hot water, dry them, and chop them small; make a forcemeat by mincing the chicken's liver, and mixing with it an equal quantity of bacon, a little of the chopped tarragon, some nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; stuff the bird with this, cover it with slices of bacon, tie over it some sheets of buttered paper, and roast it before a clear fire. Boil some nicely- flavoured stock with the remainder of the tarragon leaves, thicken it with a little brown thickening, or with flour and butter, and add salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice. Send this to table with the chicken. Time to roast, half an hour for a small chicken. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost of chicken, 28. 6d. Chicken (Jt la Marengo).—Cut a fine chicken into neat joints, season it with salt and cayenne, and fry it till done in about half tumblerful of oil or clarified butter. When half cooked, add a clove of garlic, two shalots,' and a faggot of sweet herbs. Drain the meat from the fat, and mix with the latter a table- spoonful of flour, and, very gradually, sufficient good stock to make the sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Stir it till it is thick and smooth. Put the chicken on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. Eemember that the fat must not be skimmed from the sauce. If liked, mushrooms or fried eggs may be taken to garnish the dish. Time, about twenty-five minutes to fry the chicken. Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken (a la Sainte Menehould).— Fricassee a chicken so that the gravy, when cold, will be a soUd jelly; put them between two dishes till cold; egg them well, strew over them finely-grated bread-crumbs, then dip them into egg, and then into bread-crumbs again. Fry them in hot butter or lard, and send a rich brown sauce to table with them. Time to fry, ten or fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken (aux Fines Herbes).—Make a forcemeat by mincing the liver of a chicken, and adding to it a tea-spoonful each of chervil, tarragon, chives, and parsley, all finely minced, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper; work these ingredients together with a little butter, put them inside the chicken, and sew it up to prevent the forcemeat escaping; cover the bird with slices of bacon, place over that some but- tered paper, and roast before a clear fire. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan, and, when it is hot, fry in it a large onion sliced, and a large carrot; mix in verj"^ smoothly a table-spoonful of flour, and add sufficient stock to make the sauce a nice thickness. Add a glass of white wine and a tea-spoonful each of pimpernel, chervil, tarragon, and garden cress, aU finely minced. Simmer the gravy gently for an hour, strain it, and, if necessary, put in with it a little more salt and pepper. When it has simmered for a short time, serve the gravy in the dish which contains the chicken. Time, half an hour to roast the chicken; an hour and a quarter to malvO the gravy. Sufficient, one chicken for three persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Chicken, Baked, in Bice.—Cut a chicken into neat joints, and season each with pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace. Place some slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep dish, lay the chicken upon it, strew over it a finely-minced onion, pour a breakfast-cup- ful of veal stock over all, and pile up the dish with boiled rice. Put a cover on, and bake for an hour. Probable cost of chicken, 28. 6d> Sufficient for four or five persons. Chicken, Boiled.—^Wash a chicken care- fully in lukewarm water, and truss it firmly; put it into hot water, remove the scum as it rises, let it boil, then draw it to the side and let it simmer gently until ready, and remem- ber that the more dowly it boiis the tenderer