Ixii casskll's cookekv. good round heart to it, reserve the heart, cutting the stalk flat, so as to make it stand upright. This lieart, if you like, can be jilaced on the top as an ornament, as it is green, or can itself bo masked over with mayonnaise sauce. Next cover the pyramid completely over with the mayonnaise sauce, and place the heart of the lettuce, also covered, wo will suppose, on the top of the j)yramid. Next an-ange the small red legs of the lubster round the base of the pyramid as gaiiiish. Next take some coarsely-chopped parsley, and place little specks of green altci-Jiately with little specks of lobster coral over the white pyramid, the distance between these bright-green and red spots being about half an inch. Place also a few bright-green capers on the top and round the base of the pyramid Inside the bend of the legs should be placed hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, stoned olives, lilleted and washed anchovies, and a few capers. Should you have a good-sized silver dish, place, if possible, a small red crayfish in each corner, with its small claws stretched out. There are few dishes that repay the trouble of ornamenting more than lobster salads, especially for occasions such as wedding bi'eakfasts or suppers. When you have a lobster salad, the red beetroot garnish is unnecessary. But suppose the salad mayonnaise is a salmon mayonnaise, or a chicken or turbot mayonnaise, beetroot will here take the place of the red lobster legs and the red coral. Red strips of beetroot can be placed in a sort of trellis-work round the base of the salad, and small specks of red beetroot can be placed on the white sauce alternately with the specks of green parsley. One very pretty garnish for cold dishes is asj)ic jelly. Make some good aspic jelly according to the recipe given on page 36, and pour it when Hquid into a large dish. Reserve a little of the jelly, and add to it a few drops of cochineal, which will make the jelly a bright red; pour this also into a similar-shaped dish, and allow the jelly to get cold. You can now cut this jelly iuto any shape you may wish—a diamond pattern is as good as any—as the jelly ^vill settle on the dish, which should have been filled about a quarter of an inch deep. You will conse- quently have alternate pieces of a bright pale yellow and bright red to place round any dish you may wish, such as cold chicken cutlets. Agaia, the trimmings of the jelly can be beaten up with two forks, and be piled up as a sort of glittering heap in the middle of any dish. Of course the simplest and most useful of all garnishes is plain green parsley, and you can generally tell by simply watching how a cook Avill send to table a common dish, like a cold roast fowl, whether she is possessed of any taste or not A cold roast turkey glazed and sent to table tastefully decorated with parsley is always a handsome dish. One very common fonn of handsome dishes is cold turkey or chicken, boned, &c., dressed with forcemeat, but modelled the shape, say, of a boar's head or a swan. These dishes are made by means of copper moulds, tinned inside, and which are rather expensive to buy. The meat is placed in the mould wann, and mixed ^vlth a strong stock, which being a jelly when cold causes all the meat to adhere together; some liquid strong stock can also be poured in after the mould has been shut together. On turning out, of course, the shape is perfect, so far as the mould itself is; it may occasionally, however, require a little trimming. This moulded dish now rcqxm-es glazing. Suppose, for instance, it is a boar's head. Get some very strong dark but bright glaze; keep the glai?e in a little basm, dissolved, placed m a larger basin into which some boiling water has been poured. In fact, heat^ the glaze just like what it so much resembles-glue. By means of two ai-tificia. eyes, aaa