APP ( 15 ) APP then serve, heaped on a dish. Time to beat, a qiuirter of an hour. Probable- cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small side-dish. Apple Creamed Tart.—Make an ordi- nary apple tart, flavoured and sweetened. "When baked, cut out the middle of the top, leaving merely a border all round. Let the apples be- come qiute cold, and then pom- a nicely-flavoured custard over it, and strew on the top a little pink sugar. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Apple Custard.—Take four pounds of finely-flavom-ed apples, and stew them gently, till tender, with a pint and a half of water, one poimd of sugar, and a little cinna- mon. Strain the liquid, and stir into it, very gradually, eight well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it until it thickens, which will be in about ten minutes. Pour into custard-glasses, and cover with sifted sugar. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for nine or ten glasses. Apple Custard Pudding.—Take a dozen flnely-flavourod apples, peel, core, and boil them with the lind of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a cupful of water, imtil they will pass through a sieve. Let them get cold; then add to them a little butter, and the whites of four eggs well whisked. Beat all together imtil tho mixture is smooth and firm. Turn into a Avell-buttered dish, and bake in a qmck oven. Sift a little sugar over them. They are nice either hot or cold. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Custard Pudding (another way).—Put into a stewpan one dozen apples peeled and cored, the chopped rind of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a cupful of water. Simmer gently until reduced to a pulp ; and place at the bottom of a deep dish, well oiled. Take a pint of new milk, mix with it, gradually, a little sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or ground rice. Put them in a saucepan, and let them remain on the fire, stirring constantly until the custard begins to thicken. Pour it over the cold apple, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Dumplings.—Shred as finely as possible from six to eight ounces of suet; mix with it a pinch of salt, one pound of flour, a small spoonful of baking-powder, and enough cold water to make it into a stifi paste. Use a fork in mixing. f?oll it out, and Ime a well-buttered basin with it. Fill the basin with apples, pared, cored, and sliced; add a little sugar, one or two cloves, and a little water. Cover it with the paste, and pinch it all roimd. Tie it in a well- I floured cloth, and boU for two hours and a half. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, cut a little hole in tho top, or tho steam will make the pastry heavj'-. Serve with sweet sauce. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. Is. Apple Dumplings (another way),—Take as many apples as you wish to make dumpUngs, allowing one dumpling for each person. Pare them, and scoop tho core out without breaking them. Fill each cavity with a clove, a little piece of butter, and as much sugar as will fill it. Cover each apple separately with a little piece of suet paste, tie in a floured cloth, and boil. Before serving, put a little piece of butter and sugar into each dumpling. Loosely- knitted cloths are very nice for puddings ; they are most easily washed, and produce a pretty effect. Boil half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each dumpling. Apple Dumplings, Baked.—For a, change, apple dumplings may be baked instead of boiled. They arc made exactly in the same way as the preceding, but instead of being tied in a cloth and boiled, they are placed upon a buttered tin, and put into a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quai-tcrs of an houi\ Pro- bable cost, 2d. each. Apple Flummery.—Pare, core, and slice tM'o pounds of apples, and put them into a stewpan with one pound of sugar, the finely- chopped rind of a lemon, and sufficient water to cover them. Let them stew gently until quite tender, then drain them from the juice, and beat them to a pulp. Soak an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water for twenty minutes. Put it into a saucepan with the apple-juice, and stir imtil the gelatine is dis- solved : add the apples and a cupful of cream. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, but do not let the mixture boil. Tirni it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, letjt stand until stiff, then turn out, and pom- a good custard over it. Time to stiffen, eight or ten hours. Probable cost Is. lOd., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Fool.—Take two pounds of apples pared and cored. Put them into a saucepan, with a cupful of water, one or two cIoa'cs, and sugar to taste. Let them simmer till quite soft,, and beat them w'ell with a wooden spoon. Mix with them, gradually, a pint of new milk, or milk and cream, boiled and allowed to become cold, sweetened and flavoured. Time to sim- mer the apples, about half an hour. Probable cost, made with milk, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Apple Fool (another way).—Prepare the apple iju the same way as in the preceding case ; but instead of adding milk to the fruit, mix with it a good cold custard. Apple Fritters.—Make a smooth, stiff batter of half a pound of flom', a little salt, one table-spoonful of clarified butter, three well-beaten eggs, about a quarter of a pint of milk, and a table-spoonful of beer: the latter may be omitted. Pare and scoop out the cores of a few large apples; slice them in rounds about half an inch thick; strew sugar thickly over them, and let them remain for two hours. Then throw them into the batter; take each piece out separately, and fry it in plenty of hot lard or oil. When' tliey are nicely browned on both sides, lay them on c. piece of blotting- paper to absorb the grease : then heap them up on a hot dish, and serve with sugar. Time, t