( 200 ) EGG Eggs (for Salad).—Roinovo the ahollB care- fully iiom flix hard-boilod eggs, cut them in hiilvos lengthwise, and carofuUy take out the yolks. Pound these with two ounces of liam, one ounce of anchovies, the same of voul and fat bacon, salt, cayenne, and mace to taste, add ' also a spoonful of minced sweet herbs, and one of parsley. Fill the eggs neatly with this t forcemeat, smooth thorn to a round shape with ' the blade of a largo knife, and placte a star of beetroot upon each one. When thus prepared use thorn to garnisli salad. If preferred, tlie eggs can bo put on a dish, and served with well-flavoured brown Siiuce poured round them. In this case they may be garnished with fried sippets. Eggs for Supper.—Boatupsixeggs, yolks and whites, add to them two or three young onions and some parsley shred very fine; season with salt and pepper. Mix the above with equal quantities of melted butter and grated cheese, about two ounces of each, and fry lightly, stirring the mixture briskly while in the pan (see Omelet). Time, six to eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for two or iixree persons. Eggs for Supper (another way).—Take a little nicely-flavoured brown gravy, and put it into a shallow pie-dish which has been well buttered. Place it in the oven, and let it remain until it boils, then take it out and break into it as many eggs as will lie side by side together. Sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs over all, and place the dish again in the oven until the eggs are set. Have ready one or two rounds of toast. Take the eggs up carefully with a slice, lay them on the toast, pour the gravy over all, and servo hot. Eggs Fricasseed.—Boil three eggs hard, and lay them in cold water. Melt a slice of butter in a stewpan, and throw in a small onion finely chopped; fry tUl soft. Mix a dessert- spoonful of flour with the butter to a smooth paste, add two table-spoonfuls of gravy, and stir till thick. Cut the eggs into quarters, and lay them gently in the gravy. Shake the pan round, then throw in a small cupful of cream, shake the pan again, but do not break the eggs. When the sauce is thick and fine, put the eggs on a dish, and serve with the sauce thrown over, and a garnish of lemon round the dish. Time: ten minutes to boil eggs, ten minutes to prepare the fricassee. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Eggs, Fricasseed (another way).—BoU eight eggs fifteen minutes, take off the shells and cut the white parts of them in two length- wise. Preserve the yolks whole, and put them in the middle of a dish, cut the whites into fine strips, or any other shape liked, and lay them roimd; pour white sauce over, or a mixture of mustard and melted butter, and serve hot. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs, Fricasseed, White—Boil six eggs hard, and slice them, each egg into half a dozen slices. Make a sauce as follows :—Chop some parsley, a piece of shallot, and a few mushrooms, all very finely; put these into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, add salt and pepper, and stew, but do not brown till quit.; done. Thicken with flour mixed with a small cupful of cream. Lay the slices of egg in; give the whole a boil, and serve. This fricass*;.' may be varied by substituting a good, rich brown gravy for the cream. Time, ten to fifteen uunutes to Ijoil the eggs. Probable cost, Is. 8d. for this quiintity. Sufficient for thrt-i! or four persons. Eggs, Pried.—The frying-pan should b. scrupulously clean, or the white part of the eg>' will Ije spoiled. Dripping, butter, or oil mn bo used. Break the eggs first into a cup, anil slip each one into the jjan as soon as it is hot. As the eggs fry raise their edges with a 6hc<. give them a slight shake, and ladle a little oi the butter over the yolk. In two or thit> minutes they wiU be done; take them out will, the slice, pare off the rough edges, and draii. from the greasy moisture. Serve on slices oi bacon, or lay them in the middle of a disli -with bacon or ham as a garnish. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. each. Allow two eggs for one person. Eggs, Fried (another way).—Break the eggs into a pan of boiling fat, one by one, and fry them, taking care that the yolks do not harden. Serve them with white sauce or gravy, or with a forcemeat of sorrel. Eggs j Frothed.—Mix the juice of a lemon with a teble-spoonful of water, and beat up with it the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four. Sweeten to taste, and add a pinch of salt. Put the mixture into an omelet-pan and fry carefully. Have ready four whites of eggs whipped with a pound of fine sugar to a high froth, and flavoured with vanilla or lemon. Place the omelet on a dish, and heap the frothed egg over it. Brown it lightly in an oven or before the fire. Time to frj-, about five minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs in Paper Cases.—Make a season- ing with a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, one of green onions, a clove of garlic, some pepper, salt, and a cupful of fine bread-crumbs. Have ready some small paper cases; dissolve some butter and paint them with a small brush till they are lined thickly with it, then sprinkle a little seasoning into each. Break six eggs singly into a cup, and put one on the top of the crumbs in each case, and cover with more. Bake in a gentle oven until the eggs are set. Serve in the cases. If preferred, the eg^s can be baked in small moulds, and can be turned on a dish for serving. Eggs, Jumbled,—Break four eggs into a stewpan with two oimces of butter and a season- ing of salt and pepper; let them set over a clear fire, and stir till the mixture becomes rather solid ; then remove, and sorv'c with or without a ragoCit of vegetables, celery, lettut!e, spinach, sorrel, or asparagus tops. If neither be liked, send to table upon slices of hot buttered toast. Time, five minutes. Probable cost, without vegetables, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons.