QRA QRA ( 272 ) add throo quarts of boiling water, with two carrots, ono tiniiip, tliroo or four onions, all slieoil, a hoiid of colory, or half a draclnn of poundwl c'olory-sood, tied in muwlin, a hunch of 8W(>ot horhs, and a dozen popporconis. Bring the soup to a boil, romovo the scum carofully as it rises, and add two tea-spoonfuls of salt, which will assist it in rising. When well skiuunod, draw the saucepan to tho side of tho fire, and lot its contents siinmor gently, but continuously, for four hours. Take it off, and strain the soup through a jolly-bag. Lot it stand until tho no.xt day. Lift tho fat off tho top in a cako, and, when pouring the soup olf to warm, bo careful not to disturb tho sediment. Strain it again, if nocossary ; but if tho directions have boon followed, the soup will bo clear nud bright, with a brown tinge. It "will keep bettor if vegetables are not boiled with it until it is about to bo used. This soup forms tho basis of all other kinds. If through any mischance it should not be clear, see direc- tions for Clarifying Gravy. It is better made the day before it is wanted, so that the fat can be entirely removed. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts of soup. Gravy, Colouring and Flavouring. —In coloiu'ing gravies the same directions may be followed which have been given for colouring soups (see Colouring). When this is done, how- ever, care must be taken that the flavour given by it is not sufficiently strong to be detected. When gravy is made from stock, all danger of this may be removed by combining the colouring and flavouring. Prepare the stock separately. Set it aside, and put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut into a saucepan, with two ounces of uncooked lean ham, chopped small, a shallot, finely minced, a sprig of thyme or mar- joram, a sprig of parsley, and three cloves. Cover the pan closely, and let these stew slowly for half an hour. Shake the pan several times to prevent the meat burning, and when the side of the saucepan is brightly browned, add three- quarters of a pint of unflavoured stock. Boil aU together another half-hour, thicken, if necessary, with a tea-spoonful of flour, add salt and pepper, and strain before serving. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of gravy. Gravy, Cow-heel (clear).—Put a cow- heel, which has been scalded and properly pre- pared, but not boiled, into a saucepan, with an onion, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and three pints of cold water. Skim it carefully, and, when the scum ceases to rise, cover the pan closely, and simmer gently by the side of the fire for three hours. Strain airefully, and put aside until cold; remove the fat from tho top, and ponr off the gravy, being careful to leave the sediment un- disturbed. Probable cost, one cow-heel, 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of gravy. Gravy, Eggs Poached in {nee Eggs Poached in (iravy). Gravy. English, Brown.— Cut six ounces of lean ham into square pieces, and fry ' a nico brown. When done, remove them from I tho frying-pun into a stewpan. Then fry two poimdij of nock or shin of beef, ligli^ly floured, also a middle-sized onion, or two or thjee sliallots. Pkco tliom ail together in tho stew- pan with tho ham, and cover witli about two pints of stock ; skim as tho hquid boils, and add salt, a few cloves, peppercorns, a blade of mace, a small bunch of herljs, a carrot, and a head of celery. Let all lioil till reduced in quantity to one-half; then strain, and wlien (luito cold, tiiko olf tlie fat. When re<iuiied, heat tho gravy again, and flavoui- with th<; sauce best adapted to the dish for which it is intended. If the gr?ivy be properly boiled, it will bo thick enough. Half this quantity is sufliciont at a time, and careful housekeepers would reduce the quantity of moat. Time, from throe to four hours. Probable cost of beef, about 8d. per pound. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy Espagnole (a highly flavoured brown gravy).—As this gravy will keep good for three or four days, and is frequently required in domestic cookery, it is well to make more than will be used at one time, and put it aside until wanted. It should be looked at every day, and will keep longer if it is boiled occa- sionally. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a stewpan, and, when it is melted, place on it a moderate-sized onion, cut into slices. Turn these over until they are lightly browned, then add a quarter of a pound of the lean of ham or bacon, in dice (undressed), a large carrot, scraped or cut into small pieces,, two sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, a dozen peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf. Pour in a cupful of cold water and shake the pan, or stir it occasionally, over a moderate fire for a quarter of an horn-, until the ingredients are brightly brovNmed. Add very gradually a pint of good stock, and simnier gently for three-quarters of an hour. Stmin, skim off the fat, and the gravy will be ready for use. Salt must be added, if necessarj', but this will depend upon the saltness of the ham. "When no stock is at hand, half a pound of lean beof may be cut into small squares, and fried with the rest, but when this is done a pint and a half of water should be added, and the gra-sy sim- mered an hour and a half. Another plan is to dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's ex- tract in the gravy. If a rich gravy is required a glass of sherrj' or Madeira and a table-spoon- ful of ketchup may be put into the saucepan a few minutes beifore it is taken fi-om the fire. To thicken the gravy, dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix witli it an ounce of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon until brightly browned, add gradually the strained gravy, and boil. Sufficient for nearly a pint of 'gravy. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Gravy Espagnole, made without Meat.—Cut two large onions into thick .'^lici^s, and fry them in an ounce and a lialf of butter until brightly browned: Put with them a scraped carrot, two sprigs of parsley,.