Xxviii cassell's cookery. never to be thrown away, but should bo added to the raw bones in the 8tock-r>ot. Indeed, meat that has been roasted materially helps to increase the flavour of good stock. When, therefore, we recommend carcases to be added, such as rabbits, fowls, 6ui., it is assumed that such carcases have been at any rate partially cooked, and tlie best part of the meat removed for other purposes. In cases, however, where an old hen or a very old bird, such as a partridge, evidently too tough to be eaten, is added, it i« always best to partially roast it before placing it in the stock-pot An old hen tliat has been a most serviceable bird in its day, when it ceases to lay eggs, hi, an a rule, far too tough for any purpose save that of the stock-pot; and old bii-ds like this, that make the best soup, can sometimes be bought as low as Is. or Is. 6d. a-piece. In small houses, cooks should endeavour to do on a small scale what we have shown is done in great hotels on a large scale. First, the common stock, made from any bones and pieces of cooked meat left, should be put on with some gravy-beef and knuckle of veal, the best part of the meat of the veal being cut off to use in transforming the common stock into good soup or gravy. In choosing meat for making stock it will always be found best to pick out the very freshest-killed possible, and bear in mind that meat should never be washed befoi-e it is used. In fact, that part of the meat which contains the greatest amoimt of real flavour is soluble in cold water; consequently, meat that has been washed would never make such good stock as meat that had not. When stock has been made from fresh meat free from fat, and when there has been no great preponderance of bones, if care has been taken—first, that the stock did not boil too furiously; secondly, that the stock was strained off carefully and through a fine cloth—it will generally be found that the stock will be clear enough for all ordinary purposes. Sometimes, however, it will be found that, notwithstanding every precaution, the stock will present a cloudy appearance; or again, sometimes it may be wished that the stock should be not merely clear, but absolutely bright. When such is the case, the best method of clearing stock is as follows :—We will suppose the quantity of stock required to be cleared to be two quarts. Take the whites of two eggs separated from the yolks, and be very careful that no tinge even of yolk be with them. Place the^e two whites in a basin, breaking up and adding the egg-shells if clean, and add nearly a tumblerful of cold water, and mix it well up till the whole froths on the top, then pour this into the saucepan or vessel in which the stock is, which ought not, however, to be boiling at the time. Mix it all well up, and place the saucepan on the fire to boU. While it gently boils, skim it thoroughly, then stir it all up again, let it stand some little time, and then strain it throxigh a fine cloth, or, better stHl, a thick flannel jelly-bag. By this means quite cloudy stock can be rendered as bright as sherry, only bear in mind that every particle of fat should first be removed from the stock. We will now proceed to discuss the best method of making stock Asdthout the use of fresh meat at all. It should be borne in mind that in the present day the prices of provisions have so much increased, and also show such an upward tendency, that it is very desirable for every family throughout the countiy to do their utmost to save consumption of meat, thereby doing what little they can towards rendermg meat cheaper to others who may not be possessed of so much wealth as themselves. Where the bones of joints that are left are thrown away and given to dogs, and fresh meat bouglit in quantities for making soup, it is evident that a large amount of nutritive