GAR GAR ( 242 ) Lot it l)oil until tho fi«h is sufiiriontly cooked Sorvo with auchuvy or purHley sauce." Any of the recipt'8 for oels may bo used for gurlish Timo, about half an hour. Tlio cost is uncer- tain, for tho gurlish is suldoni olforud for sale. Sufficient, one ordinaiy hsh for two persons. Garlic.—Garlic roquiros to bo usea most judiciously, or it will spoil whatever is cooked \vith it. If used carefully, howovof, it will impart a most delicious flavour to Halads and sauces; but it is so strong that, for many dishes, all that is necessary is to rub the dish which is to be sent to table sharply round with a slice of it; or, better stUl, to rub it on a crust of bread, and put the bread into the soup, &c., for a few minutes. A very general prejudice exists against garlic, probably on account of its being used in the same way as an onion. If it is desired to diminish the strength of the flavour, this may be done by boiling the garlic in two or three waters. Garlic and Eggs {see Eggs and Garlic). Garlic Gravy.—Cut a pound of lean beef into slices, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of rasped ham, a scraped carrot, and one clove of garlic. Brown the meat slightly on both sides, then pour over it one pint of stock or water, a bundle of savoury herbs, another clove, and a lemon sliced right through. Simmer gently for an hour, thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of water, and strain through a coarse sieve. Add salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Garlic, Mild Ragout of .—Take off the skin from some cloves of garlic, and put them into fast-boiling water. In five minutes drain the water from them, and put in fresh. Boil another five minutes, and repeat the previous performance until the vegetable is tender. A pinch of salt may be added to the water when tho garlic is nearly done enough. Mix it with the gravy which is to be sent to table ^vith roast mutton. If it is not wished to decrease the strength of the flavour quite so much, change tho water less frequently. Time about half an hour. Sufficient, half a pint of garlic with lialf a pint of gravy. Garlic Paste.—Slice four or six cloves of gai li(;, and pound them in a moiiar, inuisten- iiig thorn occasioiuilly with olive-oil until they form a smooth mass. Put the mixture into jars, cover with clarified butter, and keep in a cool place. TluH composition, wjmmonly called agoh, IS used for flavouring dishes with garUc. Tinui, about hulf an )i<jur. Prohable cost, ad. or -Id. SiiHiciont, a little taken on the jjoint of a knife will flavour a pint of gravy. Garlic Pickle.—Divide one pound of cloves of garlic, take off the skin, and lay them in a dish. Strew salt phintifully over them, and let them stiind for two or three days. Wipe them, and lay them in the sun to dry. Put one quart of vinegar into a preserving-pan, with a tea-spoonful of salt, one ounce of whole pepper, and one ounce of bruised mustard-seed. Boil quickly, remove the scum, and throw in the garlic for thi-ee minutes only. Pour into an earthen jar, and, when cold, tie a bladder or four or five folds of paper tightly over the pickle. The vinegar must cover the garUc, and as it becomes absorbed, a little more may be added. Garlic Sauce.—Blanch two cloves of garlic in boihng water twice. Dry them, and pound them in a mortar with a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a small egg. When quite smooth, press the mixture through a coarse sieve, and stir it into half a pint of good melted butter. Add the juice of a lemon. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. There will be sufficient for three-quarters »f a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 5d. Garlic Vinegar.—Take three ounces of the cloves of garlic, remove the skin and bruise them shghtly in a mortar. Put them into an earthen jar, with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a dozen cloves, and half an ounce of whole ginger. Pour over them a quart of the best vinegar, cover closely, and in ten days or a fortnight strain off for use. Two or three drops will prove a valuable addition to sauces and salads. The flavour may be increased or diminished by leaving the garlic a longer or shorter time in the vinegar, or by altering the proportion of garlic. Before straining off for use taste two or three drops, and see if the flavour is such as will be Uked. Garnish.—In dishing meat for the table, garnishing foi'ms a most important part, as it is highly desii-able that the eye should be satisfied as well as the palate, and the most delicious dish may not be enjoj'ed if its appearance be against it. Vegetables and sauces form the principal garnish for meat dishes. It is evident, however, that in garnish- ing very much must depend on the good taste ot the cook, and the material at her command. A gencr!il idea only of various garnishes can be given hero, and their adaptation must be left to the taste of those employing them. Garnish (Ma Financiere) —Take three cocks- combs, throe large mushrooms, three truffles,