CAP ( loe ) CAB If thoy can bo obtained fi-om the garden it is best to-gather the pods with the stalkH befoio thoy aro rod. Put the Ciipsicunis into a jar. Boil sufHciont vinegar to cover them, allowing a hwipod toa-spoonful of salt. and half an ounce of powdered mace, to every quart of vinegar. Pour this, while hot, upon tlio jjods, and wh(!n cold, tie down closely with a bladder. Thoy will bo fit for use in five or six weeks. Pro- bable cost, 4s. Gd. to 6s. per hundi-od. Captain's Biscuits.—Put a pinch of salt with as much Hour as may be required, and make it into a paste with a littlo new miUi. Knead it thoroughly till it is finn and stiff, then divide it into balls, and form into cakes about a quarter of an inch in thiclmoss. Prick >hem with a fork, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Carachi.—Pound a head of garlic, and put it into a jar with thi-ee table-spoonfuls each of, wal- nut pickle, mushroom ketchup, and soy, and two tea-spoonfuls of cayenne pepper, two tea-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, and one of pounded mace. Pour on these one pint of fresh vinegar ; let them remain in the liquid two or three days, then strain, and bottle it for use. Sufficient for one pint and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Caramel, or Biiriit Sugar. —Put a quarter of a poimd of finely-sifted sugar into a preserving-pan, place it on a moderate fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes liquid; then stir it constantly until it is a dark brown. Add one pint of cold water. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour longer. Strain, and bottle for use. If the fire is too fierce, the caramel will be discoloured. This browning should be added to the sauce the last thing. Time, forty minutes. Probable cost, 2^d. per pint. When wanted, pour a few drops at a time into the tureen until the colour is what is required. Caramel, or Sugar for Sweets, &c. —Put one pound of sugar into a preserving- pan with half a pint of cold water. Let it stand three or four minutes, then place it on the fire, and let it boU, skimming and stirring it con- stantly. It will be first a syrup, then begin to bubble and look white, when, if it is intended for caramel, it must have the juice of a lemon stirred in with it, or it will turn to sugar again. Dip a stick into it, then plunge it into cold water, and when the sugar which drops from the stick snaps like glass, it is ready. It must be poured out instantly. If it is to be used for sugar spinning, the pan must be placed in another of cold water. Have the moulds ready oiled, and throw the sugar over in threads "with a fork or spoon. .'• Caraway Biscuits.—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a poimd of flour, then add a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, three eggs well beaten, and a few caraway seeds. Plaice the mixture into a stiff paste, adding a little water if neqessary. Roll it about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp it out in rounds, and prick these with a fork. Plp,ce the biscuits on floured tins, or on a wire frame, and bake them in a quick oven about ten minutoe. Pro- liable cost, 8d. per pound. Caraway, Brandy. —Dissolve half a pound of linuly-Kifl(;d gmger in one quart of lirandy, and sprinkle on the top one ounce of whole cjiraway seeds. Let them remain for ten days in the jar, then strain the liquid and bottle it for use. Tliis makes an excellent stomachic. Probable cost, 3d. jjcr pint, exclusive of the brandy. Cardoons.—Cardoons have long been em- ployed in I'rcnch cookery, and are now a good deal cultivated in England, but they require such rich seasoning that they are scarcely fit for domestic cookery. The stalks of the inner leaves are the parts which arc eaten. They should be cut into strips about four inches long, and the prickles removed with a flannel. They are generally blanched for use. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces about six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Scrape off the skin and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured stock, and boil till tender. Drain'them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good melted butter. Sufficient, five or six heads for a dish. Cardoons, Pried.—Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they are nicely browned. Send good melted butter to table with them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, five or six heads for a dish. Cardoons, Stewed.—Prepare the car- doons as above. Then put them into a stewpan and cover with a little good gravy, and stew very gently till tender. When sufficiently cooked, thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, season with cayenne and salt, and add a glass of sherry. Put the cardoons on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. Sufficient, five or six for a dish. Carp.—Carp is a pond rather than a river fish, and requires a thoroughly good sauce to be served with it. It is not often offered for sale, but is very useful for families residing in the country, as it may frequently be obtained when no other fish can be. The best carp are those of a medium size. They are better to be kept a day before they are used. From May to November they are not good for food. The head is con- sidered the best part. Owing to their habit of burying themselves in mud, the flesh of these fish has often a disagreeable muddy taste; in cleaning them, therefore, care should be taken to remove the gills, as they are always muddy, to rub a little salt down the back-bone, and to lay them in strong salt and water for a couple of hours; then wash them in clear spring water. A good plan also is to put a piece of the crumb of bread with the fish, and remove it before it is served. There is a small species of this fish called the Crucian carp which is good for nothing. Carp, Baked.—Clean and scale a carp. Make a forcemeat with eight oysters, bearded