( U9 ) COP COF slices of lemon. To boil: put the fish into boiling water, and let them boU very gently untn the lieah loaves the bono easily, bervo with parsley or anchovy sauce. To fry : Knb the codlings with Horn-, then brush them weU with egg, dip them in bread-crumbs, and try them in plenty of hot lard or drippiiig. When a thick smoke rises from them they wiU be ready. Drain them from the fat, and servo with shi-imp or oyster sauce. Time : to bake, three-quarters of an hour; to boil, a quarter ot an horn-; to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, one codling for two persons. Probable cost, 8d. or Is. each. CofiTee.—This beverage which is so highly esteemed on the continent, and the appreciation of which is becoming more general every year in our own land, is often made so badly that it loses its delicious aroma and invigorating quali- ties, and produces only nausea and indigestion. There are numberless recipes for making it, and every one considers his plan the best, but surely it is proved that some enlightenment on this subject is necessary, when a cup of really good coffee is a most difficult article to obtain, and the quality of that which is commonly dnmk in this coimtry is very inferior. The first thing to be attended to is to have the material good. The best plan is to buy a large quantity raw, and to keep it for years before using it, roast- ing a Httlo as it is required, as the quality of the berry improves with keeping. This, how- ever, is not convenient in many houses, and therefore in ordinary circumstances it is quite as satisfactory and much less troublesome to buy the berries already roasted of some first- class dealer. Though not always roasted, how- ever, the cofPee should always be ground at home, immediately before it is wanted. "VNTien once the berry is ground, the aroma quickly escapes. The berries should be put into the oven for a short time to warm before they are ground. Besides being particular about the quahty of their cofEee, Englishmen haA^e to learn not to be sparing of the quantity. The continental allowance is a cupful of freshly- ground coffee for three cupfuls of liquid. This may, of course, be considered extravagant and unnecessary, but one thing is certain, if the coffee is not strong the aroma is lost. The finest sugar should always be served Avith coffee, and boiling milk or cream as well as cold. When, for purposes of economy, a cheap coffee is purchased, the flavour may be improved by the addition of a small quantity of chicory, but it should bo bought separately, and mixed at home, and not more than two ounces of chicory powder put with one pound of coffee. The effect of chicory is to impart a slight bitterness to the coffee, and to darken its colour, and it is con.sidered by many persons an improvement; but this is not pure coffee. Coffee and Milk {sec Cafe au Lait). Coffee, Black {see Cafe Noir). Coffee, Breakfast. — Coffee is best when made in a tin cafetiere. Take freshly roasted berries, glfind them at the last moment, and make the powder hot in the oven. Place it upon the perforated bottom of the upper compartment, put the strainer on it, and poui' boiling water in gradually. Coffee thus made will be clear, bright, and full of flavour. When a cafetidro cannot be had, proceed as foUows :— Fit a small muslin bag inside the top of the coffee-pot. Pour a little boiling water through this, and, when the pot is hot, pour it off, and put the coffee into the bag. Pour boiling water gradually over it, and when it is all drained through remove the bag and send it to table. It should be remembered that the water should be poured on a little at a time, or the strength of the powder will not be thoroughly extracted. When it can be done, coffee should be sent to table in the same pot in which it was made, as this will prevent its getting cool; and coffee for breakfast is nothing to speak of if it is not hot. Time, two or three minutes. Probable cost, Mocha coffee, 2s. per pound. Sufficient, allow a heaped table-spoonful of freshly-ground coffee for every breakfast-cupful of boiUng water. Coffee, Burnt (the French "Gloria").— This coffee should be served in small cups, and be made as strong and clear as possible, and sweetened almost to a syrup. At the last moment a little brandy should be poured gently over it on a spoon, fire set to it, and when the spirit is partly consumed, the flame blown out, and the coffee di-unk quite hot. Allow a cupful for each person. Probable cost, 6d. per cup. Coffee Cream.—Make a breakfast-cupful of strong, clear coffee; add haK a pint of boiling cream to it; beat them well together; sweeten with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and, when cool, add a small pinch of salt, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and the whites of two. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, to thicken it, pour it into glasses, and serve with a little sifted sugar on the top of each glass. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for this quantity. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Coffee Custard.—INIix thoroughly a cup- ful of strong, clear coffee, with four times the quantity of boiling milk, three table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted sugar, and a good pinch of salt; mix in very gradually the yolks of five eggs, well beaten. Stir the custard over a moderate fire until it thickens, pour it into cups, and serve cold. Sufficient for six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. for this quantity. Coffee, Essence of, to prepare.— Pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling milk over a dessert-spoonful of the essence of coffee, and stir the mixture until it is smoothly blended. It is a good plan to keep the essence of coffee in the house when any one is in the habit of leaving early in the morning. With it a comforting, cup of coffee may be made with very little trouble in a short time. Sufficient, three des- sert-spoonfuls for a breakfast-cupful. Probable cost, Is. lOd. per piat bottle. Coffee, French method.—Pour a pint of boiling water upon two and a half ounces of freshly-ground coffee. Put the lid on the coffee-pot, and place it on the hob to simmer gently without boiling. Stir it occasionally, and at the end of two hours, take it off the