cassell's cookery. Ixxxvi admirably aduptecl to persons who lead sedentary lives. In France, claret corre- sponds to our k;or, poor men being able to obtain a tumblerful for a penny. Notwithstanding, however, its cheapness, the French generally mix water with It. Indeed, the French are the most thrifty nation in the whole world, an<l thia economy on their part, coupled with industry, is the secret of their enormous wealth probably far greater than oui- own. Claret, like all other light wines, is best kept m bottles. Of course claret is originally kept in wood, but not for long. Claret, like port, varies very much with the vintage or year, some years being remarkably good, while others are comparative failures. One of the finest vintages ever known in Fi-ance Avas that of 1848. Well-!, ottled and well-autlienticated clarets, either Chateau Margaux, or Chateau Lafitte of 1848, will now fetch fancy prices—indeed, not very long ago there was a sale of the Lafitte at the chateau in which some of the 1848 wine fetched 100 francs a bottle, or £4 English money. There is perhaps no wine in the world that varies so much as claret; and the comparison between a bottle of good Lafitte and a bottle of vin ordinaire only shows what care and cultivation of the grape will effect. The three first-class clarets are undoubtedly Chateau Margaux, Chateau Lafitte, and Chateau Latour. These wines are generally very expensive—any good years fetching about 84s. a dozen when almost new wines. Indeed, the Chateau Margaux and Lafitte of 1870 is nearly £5 a dozen. Now and then, when the yeai- has been bad, these wines, even genuine, can be obtained very cheap. For instance. Chateau Lafitte for 1872 can be got for about 54s. to 60s. a dozen, but then it is quite a different class of wine to say 1874 or 1870, both of which are famous years. Chateau La Rose and Chateau Leoville are also good wines, though not equal to those we have mentioned. Good Chateau La Hose, however, will vie -with any wine in respect to hoitquet, possessing as it does that delicate scent corresponding to fresh-blown roses, which indeed gives it its name. In selecting claret great attention should be paid to the hoiiqxiet of the "wine —indeed many judges of wine would be able to select by the smell alone, Anthout tasting. In choosing claret, however, especially the cheaper kinds, purchasers should be on their guard against being deceived by the bouquet. Very often claret is, we will not say adulterated, but mixed with a small quantity of Burgundy, the latter being added to give it a bouquet. Thus a very inferior and poor claret is passed off as something sujierior. Experience alone will enable the taster to decide what is Burgundied claret and what is pure. The Burgundy generally used to mix with claret is Beaune, which is a splendid wine possessing a very marked bouquet. Those familiar with the flavour of Beaune will be better able to distinguish claret that has had Beaune added to it. In choosing claret very much depends, not merely on the particular name or bi-and, but on the year, and also on the time, and by whom it was bottled. Of coui-se, out of the thousands of hogsheads of claret that are imported it would be folly to expect that all would be perfectly pure vintage wines. Some persons prefer a full-boilied claret, and some a thin light wine—this is, of course, a matter of taste, but in selecting thin clarets it is essential that they should be perfectly free from acidity. An acid claret is never good. It has been stated lately that an injurious colouring matter has been used to improve the appearance of clarets : I am, hoAvever, disposed to think that these statements are exaggerations. At any rate, there is never any diflScidty in obtaining a pure Avholesome claret from any Avine merchant. Some few years ago, at the time when the ugav commercial treaty Avith France