OYS ( 494 ) OTS gpoonful of (lour, and simmer for twenty minutes. Add two dozen oysters, and when they ai-e quite hot, draw the saucepan to the side of the tire for a minute or two to cool, then stir in gradually the yolk of an egf?, beaten up with a table-spoonful of cream. Simmer again for a minute, and serve the oysters on a hot dish, with the siiuce strained and poured over them! A tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added or not. Probable cost of oysters, from Is Gd to 3s. per dozen. WuUicient for tlu'ee or four pwrsons Oysters, Pried.—Fi-ied oysters are gene- rally used to garnish iish, either boiled or fried, and large oysters are the best for the purpose. Open tho oysters, and siimner them for two minutes in their-own liquor, diy thorn in a cloth, beard them, and dip them in a frying batter made as follows :—Mix six ounces of flour very smoothly with the yolk of an egg, an ounce of claritied butter, and a quarter of a pint of luke- warm water, beat tho mixture until it is quite smooth, then add a pinch of salt, and let the batter stand in a cool place for a couple of hours. Stir in briskly the weU-whisked whites of two eggs, dip the oysters in separately, drop them into boiling fat, and fry them until they are crisp and brown. Drain them on a cloth, and serve very hot. Time to fry the oysters, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Fried (another way). — Open two dozen oysters, and simmer them for two minutes in their own liquor. Dry them in a cloth, beard them, and fry them with two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced pars- ley, and a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind. When they are nicely browned, drain them on a cloth, and serve on a hot dish with fried potatoes, and toasted sippets round them. Time, six or seven minutes to fry. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oyster, Fritters of.—Open a dozen oysters, and simmer them for two minutes in their own liquor. Beard them, and put them aside. Beat two eggs, and mix with them half a table- spoonful of milk. Add a little salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pounded mace, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Dip the oysters into this batter, and then into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Fry in hot fat until they are brown and crisp, and use them for garnishing. Time, five or six minutes to fry the oysters. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. Oysters in the Pan. —Mince a small onion finely, and put it into a stcwpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a toa-spoonf ul of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Steam until the onion is tender, then add a quarter of a pint of new milk or cream and a dozen fresh oysters. Let these get quite hot, then tum them with the Sfiuco into a buttered baking-dish, strew tinoly-gratod bread-crumbs thicklv over, and put them into a quick oven until tho crumbs are lightly browned. Time, altogether about half un hour. Probable cost of oysters' Is. Gd. to 3s. per dozen. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oysters, Ketchup of.—Take half a pint of fresh oysters, clean them well, carefully re- moving the eye and the gut, and boil them gently with their liquor until all the goodness 18 drawn out of them. Strain them, and put the liquid into a clean saucepan, with an equal quantity of light wine, six anchovies, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, a quurtor of an ounce each of pounded cloves and marx-, and a doz(;n peppercorns. Boil a qufuler of an lioui' longer, then put a dozen shallots and the thin rind of a small lemon into a jar, pour over th(;m the hot liquid with tho spices, and when cold bottle the ketchup and resin the corks. This ketchup is for flavom-ing sauces when oysters are out of season. Time, half an hour to boil the oysters. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to Ss. per dozen. Oysters, Ketchup of (another way).— Take half a pint of freshly-shelled oysters, clean them well, carefully removing the eye and the gut, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. Add half a pint of sherry, a drachm of mace, half a drachm of pepper, and half an ounce of salt, and boil all gently together for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of brandy, then bottle the ketchup, and resin the corks. Probable cost of oysters. Is. 6d. to 38. per dozen. Oysters, Ketchup of (another way).— Pound two dozen large oysters in a mortar. Put them into a stewpan with all their liquor, half a pint of sherry, a quarter of a pound of fine anchovies, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Simmer gently for half an hour, then strain; add half a salt-spoonful of pounded mace and eight peppercorns, boil for a few minutes, and when cold bottle the ketchup and store for use. This ketchup will be found useful to flavour gravies and sauces when fresh oysters cannot be obtained. Oysters too large for eating may be used for ketchup. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. per pint. A dessert-spoonful will flavour half a pint of sauce. Oysters, Loaves of.—Beard one dozen oysters, and put the beards into a saucepan with the oyster liquid, as much thick cream as will cover them, a quarter of an inch of mace, a grate or two of nutmeg, two inches of thin lemon-rind, and half a grain of cayenne. Boil for ten minutes, strain the sauce, and put it back into the saucepan, with the oysters finely minced, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream, thickened with a dessert-spoonful of dried flour. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute, then put it into the loaves, prepared as follows :—Slico the tops off three or tour small Prencii" rolls, scoop out the crumb, and pluuge the rolls into as much hot lard as will cover them entirelj', end let them remain till they are brightly browi ed all over. Drain them weU, fill them with the oyster mixture, and servo in a dish gar- nished with fried bread-crumbs. Time, a few minutes to brown the loaves. Probable cost.