MIN ( 424 ) mixing them thoioughly. Grate the rinds of three lomonH, and squeeze the juice over half a pound of tine Lisbon sugar, mixed with the lomon-peel; pour over this two gills of brandy and half a pint of sherry. Let those ingredients bo well stirred, then cover the pan with a slate ; and when about to use the mincemeat take it from the bottom of the pan. Or, to make mince pies without meat, carefully prepare, as before directed, a pound and a half of fresh beef-suot, and chop it as small as possible; stone and chop a pound and a half of Smyraa raisins; well wash and dry on a coarse cloth two pounds of currants; pool, core, and cut small three pounds of russet apples; add a quarter of an ounce of mixed cinnamon and mace in powder, four cloves powdered, a pound and a half of pow- dered sugar, a toa-spoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon and its pool finely grated, and a table-spoonful of mixed candied fruit cut very small. Let all the above be well mixed to- gether, and remain in the pan a few days. When you a^-e about to make mince pies, throw a giU of brandy and the same of port wine into the pan, and stir together the mince. Line the required number of patty-pans with properly-made paste; fill from the bottom of the pan; cover, and bake quickly. Mincemeat, Apple (see Apple Mince- meat) . Mincemeat Fritters.—Beat well three eggs, separating the yolks from the whites, moisten a large table-spoonful of flour with them, and when the batter is rubbed smooth add eight ounces of mincemeat and part of the juice of a lemon. Fry in boiling lard, and put the fritters on paper before the fixe for a minute, then serve hot on a napkin. These fritters should be made small. Drop the mixture from a dessert-spoon into the frying-pan. Bread- crumbs may be used instead of flour—about two ounces and a half will be the quantity for three eggs. They should be very finely pre- pared. Time, six to seven minutes to fry. Probable cost, lOd. Mincemeat, Old-fashioned. — Take a pound of beef, a pound of apples, two pounds of suet, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of currants, one pound of candied lemon or orange- peel, a quarter of a pound of citron, and an ounce of fine spices; mix all these together, with half an ounce of salt, and the rinds of six lemons shred fine. See that the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, and add brandy or wine according to taste. Mincemeat Royal. —To an ounce of clarified butter add the yolks of four eggs, and beat in two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, with the grated rind and strained juice of a large lemon. Mix these ingredients with half a pound of rich mincemeat, without beef, and nearly fill the patty-pans with the mixture. Put them into a moderately quick oven to sot. Ice them with the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to snow, wth a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and place them in the oven again until they arc of a nice rich brown. Mincemeat, with Beef. — Stone and cut two pounds of raisins (Valencias), wash and dry two pounds of currants, mince one pound of loan beef, free from skin and gristle, chop two pounds of beef suet very fine, add two pounds of moist sugar. Cut into small pieces six ounces of mixed candied peel—orange, citron, and lemon. Pare and core a pound of ai)i)les, grate a small nutmeg and the rind of two lemons, squeo/e the juice of one, add a full tea- spoonful of allspice, and a pinch of salt. Mix these ingredients woU together, pour over them a large wine-glassful of brandy; press tightly into an earthen jar and exclude the air. Mincx-meat is best made a fortnight before it is wanted. When about to use it, take from the bottom of the jar. Probable cost, 6s. for this quantity. Mincemeat, without Beef. — Weigh a pound of good beef suet after chopping it as finely as possible, also a pound of stoned raisins; cut them across, but do not chop. Well wash and dry half a pound of currants, and pare, core, and chop the same weight of russet apples—^these are best for this purpose, as they are less watery. Add two pounds of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied peel—lemon, citron, and orange (minced)—a, little powdered clove, two ounces of orange- marmalade, and mix the whole well together, so that the ingredients may be well blended; then throw over it a quarter of a pint of brandy, and .the same of sherrj', but more brandy and less sherry will do. This mince- meat should be made a month before it is used. Tie it down with bladder, to exclude the air. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Mince Pies.—Chop one pound of beef suet very fine; two pounds of apples pared, cored, and minced; stoned raisins, one pound (minced); and one pound of currants. Add of mixed spice, in powder, half an ounce, one poimd of powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon; cut smaU three ounces of candied orange-peel, one ounce of citron, and one ounce of lemon; mix all well together with half a pint of brandy. Tie down close in a jar, and keep for use. A larger quan- tity may be made in these proportions. Make the pies with rich, flaky crusts. Mince Pies (another way). — Of suet, chopped very fine and sifted, two poimds; currants, two pounds; raisins, one poimd; apples, two pounds; bread, half a pound; moist sugar, one and a quarter poimd; red and white wine (mixed), three-quarters of a pint; a glass of brandy (these two last according to taste); the peel of two small lemons, and the juice of one; four ounces of candied orange-peel cut. Mix, with cinna- mon, mace, nutmeg, and salt, to the taste. If preferred, omit the bread, substituting two biscuits. Mince Pies (another way).—Take three pounds of plums, Avith the same quantity of currants, add the juice of six lemons and six oranges, with four grated nutmegs and the orange and lemon-peel after it has been boiled well to extract the bitterness. When these materials arc well mixed and minced, put thorn aside in a jar, adding two glasses of brandy, ^lolt one pound of butter before the fire^ without