xli PRINCIPLES—WHITEBAIT. is crenerally to keep in the flavour. For instance, a sHce of grilled salmon tastes ftr nicer if the slice has been wi-apped in oiled paper. Of course cooking anything wiupped in oiled paper on a gridiron requires great care, as should there be the; slightest flare the paper will catch fire—what is wanted is a fierce heat. When fish hii^ been cooked in paper it should be sent to table just as it is, paper and all. The paper must be proper cooking paper, and not printed. So few fish are ever baked that general directions on the subject are scarcely necessary. There is one case, however, to which we will refer, viz., fish en papillot, or, in other words, fish baked in paper. Take, for instance, the case of rouget en papillot The very best way of cooking red mullet is to wrap it up in oiled paper with plenty of butter and a little pepper and salt, the one thing to be borne in mind being that it is scarcely possible to have too much butter. Unfortunately, b\itter is now so ex- pensive that this method of cooking fish is very extravagant: this is true, but if you do cook it this way, either do it properly or try another way altogether. If you place a red mullet or indeed any fish in paper with what is generally called a little dab of butter you simply dry up and spoil the fish altogether. There is one delicious little fish that deserves special notice, and that is whitebait. How very few cooks are there who can send this delicacy to table ! Indeed, very often in country houses, when what are called grand dinnei-s are given, very often a man is specially sent down from London to cook the whitebait. Of coiirse, we presume the whitebait to be fresh. Now, what is the difficialty 1 I think the principal one is drying the whitebait. I will therefore describe exactly how whitebait is cooked at some of those charming little river-side hotels. The whitebait is first thrown on to flour on a cloth, not merely a floured cloth, but flour an inch deep. The whitebait, when thus dosed in flour, is put into a large sifter or very coarse, open cane sieve—something like that used for sifting oats—and shaken; all the loose flour is thus shaken ofi". The floured and sifted whitebait is then put in a wire basket, and plunged into boiling fat. Unless the fat be really boilings and sufficiently deep to cover the fish, it is of no use. Half a minute or a little more is quite sufficient to cook the whitebait, which must be sent to table instantly. Recollect, however, the wliitebait must be cooked directly it is floured. It is no use flouring the whitebait and putting it by; if you wait any time you will have it flabby and spoilt. The one point to" be remembered is expedition. Take cai'e also that the whitebait is not in a broken state. Plain whitebait is generally followed with a little devilled whitebait. There are two kinds, called black devil and red devil. The correct way to devil whitebait is to take out the whitebait basket in the middle of cooking, and pepper the fish, using mixed black pepper and salt for black-devil, and mixed cayenne pepper and salt for a red-devil. The basket should then be re-plunged into the boiling fat for a few seconds, and the whitebait sent to table. In nearly all hotels—and really the plan seems quite unobjectionable—the devilled whitebait is made from the ordinary whitebait left and sent downstairs from the first cou^e. This is peppered and replaced in the whitebait basket, which is then re-plunged into the boiling fat—a very few seconds, of course, being necessary to heat it. An indispensable accompaniment to whitebait is thin brown bread and butter and cut lemon. Whitebait, however, is such an exceedingly delicate fish that it seems to possess an extraordinary property of bringing out the flavour of the butter. Consequently, unless thfi butter is of the very best description it will taste bad. Xhtbo.—2*