FIS FLA Boup. Whori stmined, grate a number of potatoes—four pouudu of good mealy ono8 will thiekou two quarts of broth—add those with some well-boaton eggs and a large cup of cream. Flavour with salt and nutmeg. If preferred, milk may bo substituted for some of the broth, and tho cream may bo omitted. Serve with klosso or toasted bread. Time] half an hour. Sufficient for eight persons. Fish Stock.—Cleanse well from the slime, but do not skin, two pounds of eels; cut them into pieces; also, two pounds of any river fish- carp, trout, &c.—and one pound of skate. Cover uhese with water, and let them stew gently for four hours, with an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, and about an ounce of salt. Strain for use, when the stock may be enriched with butter to suit the required taste. Fish Stock, Brown.—Cut in pieces a skate, a iloundor, and two small eels. Fiy them in butter a rich brown. Cover with water; add an onion stuck with cloves, three carrots, three turnips, a head of celery, salt, pepper, and nut- meg. Boil to a jelly. This stock will keep two days. Strain for use. Time, two hours to boil. Fish, To Boil.—The result of modem investigation in the culinary department proves that fish to be boiled should be plunged at once into boiling water, and not subjected to the slow cold process, whereby the nutritious juices are extracted. To ascertain if the fish so treated is done, raise the thick part of the fish; if it sepa- rates from the bone easily it is quite ready for serving. Fish, To Broil.—Make a clear fire. A little salt thi'own in will check smoke. Next see that the gridiron is well rubbed with grease (suet is best for the purpose), and that it is hot before the fish is laid upon it; turn with tongs —a knife is apt to break the fish—and remove as soon as done: the time must be regulated by the size and quality of the fish. [See Pish, Grilled.) Grilling and broiling are two dif- ferent words which signify the same thing. Fish, To Caveach.—Salmon or cod may be done in this way. If cod, bone and slice the tail part; sprinkle with salt; dry weU, and fry a nice brown. Make a pickle of vine- gar, peppercorns, mace, a few cloves, and bay- leaves ; boil till the flavour is extracted, then put by to cool. Cut a couple of small onions into slices, lay them over and between the fish; add a cupful of salad-oil to the vinegar, and pour over the fish, which should be covered. Serve in the middle of a dish, with a salad round it. Time to fry cod, ten to twelve minutes. Fish, To Cook, in Oven.—Clean and trim any small fish; put them into a deep pan, with a gill of vinegar, half a pint of melted butter, and two onions chopped small; lay in the fish with a seasoning of two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Bake, basting fre- quently with the sauce. Serve with the sauce in the dish. Time, twenty minutes to bake. ►Sufficient for six pounds of fish- . .^isll. To Fry.—The great excellence of iruid fish consists in its freedom from grease When practicable, the fish to be fried should be entirely immersed in fat, which has attained tho jiroper temijeruture—that is, when it is still, has a blue smoke rising from it, and fizzes and sends out air-bubbles when a little piece of broad is thrown into it. Fry of a delicate brown, and drain before the fire on an inverted sieve! Get the fish in a proper state; let it be quite dry, dredge it with flour, brush with egg, and strew well with bread-crumbs. Use oil, butter, lard, or dripping. aUo Fry, To.) Fish (vol-au-vent).—Make a puff paste; roll it out about one inch and a quarter thick, and then cut it to the desired size with a tin-cutter. Make an incision all round, an inch from the edge, with a small sharj) knife, or better still with a tin-cutter, if one of the size be at hand. Bake on a tin pan in a quick oven. When done, nicely egged over, and of a pale brown colour, cut out the centre paste without breaking the edge, and fill the vacant place with a fricassee of fish, oysters, lobster, &c. Serve the vol-au-vent on a folded napkin. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, puff paste. Is. 6d. per pound. Fish and Oyster Pie.—Make a season- ing of bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and parsley chopped fine. Lay any remains of cold fish into a pie-dish; let them be neatly cut iuto scollops, and cleared from all skin and bone; sprinkle with pepper and salt. Make a layer of oysters, and cover with the seasoning. Mil up the dish with alternate layers of fish, oysters, and seasoning. Cover with bars of puff paste, and bake, pouring in melted butter dissolved with the liquor of the oysters. Time, according to size. When the pastry is done the pie will be ready for serving. Fisherman's Soup. — Make a soup according to the following recipe, by which means the smallest fry may be utilised: Take aU the fish caught in a day's angling— carp, dace, roach, perch, &c. Wash them in salt and water, and put them in a stewpan with a tomato, a leek, an onion, and two carrots sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and enough water to cover them. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and throw in as much more water as will be wanted for the soup, and boil another hour. When ready to serve, put two turnips and a head of celerj% previously boiled and cuv into small pieces, into the tureen, and flavour with a tea-spoonful each of soy and Chili vinegar. Flan (a la Caleb Balderstone).—Take good puff paste that has been set in a cool place for two or three hours, and line with it a fluted flan- mould, then lay a white paper as a lining for the crust, and fill the mould vniYi bran to keep it in proper shape. Vand3'ke the edge, and mark the Vandykes to imitate leaves. The oven should be hot to crisp the paste well, and the mould should have a movable bottom to take away the bran and paper. Fill with any fruit (preserved)—gooseberry, cherry, apples