( 230 ) PRE FBE French Plums, Stewed.—Put enough wntLT in II ult'uu stowpuu to cover u pound ami a half of French phims, stow thoni fur an hour, then strain and Itoil tho wator, tliroo- iiuartors of a pint, with half a jiound of Hiiyar. When it has builod, and Loon woU skimmed, and is tiuite clear, add tlie rind and juice of a lemon with tiio plums, and simmer very gently. A glass of poi-t wine will improve tho flavour and appeaianco of tlie fruit, and may bo added at the same time with the plums. Serve in a glass dish. Time to stow, one hour or more, according to tho quality ; to simmer, one hour and a half. Probable cost of ])lum8, Is. per pound. Sufficient for a large dish. Fl'enoh Plum Tart.—Stew French plums witli sugar, in the proportion of half to tho weight of fruit. Put half a pound of plums and a quarter of a pound of sugar, with half a glass of water or red wine into a stewpan; cover, and stew very gently until the stones can be taken away easily. Crush a part of them, and put the kernels with the plums in the stewpan. Edge a dish with puii paste, put in the plums, &c., cover with a paste, bake, and serve hot. Time, thi'ee-quartors of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a small tart. French. Pudding.—Mix six ounces of : marrow, two ounces each of flour, bread-crumbs, ] chopped apples, dried cherries, and candied peel, three ounces of sugar, half an ounce of ginger, and the grated rind of a lemon. Moisten with four eggs and a giU of cream, and boil three hours. French Raised Pie.—It will require some practice to mould the paste for this pie to the desired shape, but having succeeded in making the paste, which is sometimes simply made of flour, mixed with boiling water, in which a little lard is dissolved, and is not intended to be eaten, the rest of the work is easy enough. Mould according to the hints given by the celebrated Monsieur Ude, of which the fol- lowing is a copy :—" Take a lump of paste, according to the size of the pie you are to make, mould it in the shape of a sugar-loaf, put it up- right on the table, and with the palms of your hands flatten the sides of it; when you have equalised it all round, and it is quite smooth, squeeze the point of the cone down to half the height of the paste; then hollow the inside by pressing it vnth the fingers, and in doing this be careful to keep it in every part of equal thickness. Fill it, roll out the cover, egg the edges, press them securely together, make a hole in the centre, lay a roll of paste roimd it, and encircle this with a wreath of leaves, or ornament the pie in any other way, according to taste; glaze it with the beaten yolk of egg, and bake it from two to three hours in a well-heated oven, if it be small, and from four to five hours if it be large; the time must be regulated by the nature of tho contents and size of the dish. "When baked, fill with game, poultry, or a fricassee of chicken, rabbit, &c. Ser^-e on a napkin. French Rolls.—Rub together a pound of flour and an ounce of butter; when well blended mix with the flour and butter a small quantity of yeast with enough milk to form a stiff dough, an egg, and a little salt. Do not knead the dough, but use a wooden spoon, let it rise, and bake on tins. When brown and ready to be taken out of the oven, brush over with beaten egg, and keep the rolls a minute or tw,, longer to dry. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Id. Sufficient for six rolls. French Salad.-it would be difficult t.^ particularize a French salad, it is composed ol everything or anything. Alany improvised disht.-, of salad, such as beans, potatoes, cauliflowei, and celery (cooked), are served at a French table, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, chopped tarragon, oi' a little tarragon vinegar. Fish salads, too, are highly relished, namelj-, the remains of any solid fish, such as cod, sole, or turbot, for which the following sauce will bu found excellent, as it will be also for a lettuce or other vegetable salad :—Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a wooden spoon, and moisten with a raw egg; put this egg-mixturc- into a bowl, with two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a little pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; add bv degrees oil and vinegar, alternately, until thi^ required quantity, three table-spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar, which may be tarragon, has been mixed. Keep the sauce stiired and well smoothed with the spoon. Add half a tea- ■ spoonful of shi-ed onion, and the same of chervil and tarragon, if plain vinegar has been used with the oil. Two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or melted butter will make the sauce richer and better, and the whites of eggs may be chopped and added to the salad. French Sausages.—Take equal portions of fat bacon and lean pork, one pound of each; mince them. Blanch and parboil a sweetbread for half an hour, also three or four fowls" livers. Put all into a mortar, with salt, pepper, half a tea-spoonful of sugar, the same of saltpetre, and a little mace. Wash, brush, and peel two truffles, and add them, with a clove of garUc. When rubbed together, and reduced to a smooth mass, sprinkle a dozen peppercorns over the meat; and as the skins are being filled, some very thin long strips of bacon may be added, if the meat is not considered sufficiently rich; these can be put in easily when the skins are large. Hang to dry. The sausages may be eaten cooked or otherwise, but they are best cold. Time, five minutes to boil livers. French Soufl9.e.—Put a piece of butter, the size of a small egg, and stir it over the fire, in a clean saucepan, with tw^o table-spoonfuls of flour. When thick (it must not brown), have ready half a pint of boihng milk and two table- spoonfuls of cream, and stir the whole together. Pour it up into a bowl when smooth and thick, and flavour with maraschino, noyeau, or to taste. Beat up the yolks of five eggs, with two ounces of pounded sugar; add them, with the whites of eight eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and bake carefully in a souffle dish. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for this quantity. French Supper Dish.—Cut neat pieces of bread of uniform size, about three inches square, fry them delicately in butter, and set thom before the fire on a hot disli. Stew a few muscatel raisins in a little sweet wine and some