( 428 ) MOB MOO into a stowpan with plenty of butter. Close the lid, and simmer for flftoen or twenty minutes. Take them out, and finiah on the gridiron. Serve witli a aauco as followB:—Chop Bonio shallot and a little parsley together, stew them both in a small quantity of stoclc; add vinegar luad pepper. Time, eight to ten minutes to broil. Moor Game Pie.—Season the birds highly with cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Any other seasoning will rob them of their native flavour. They may be divided or not, accord- ing to size. Small birds are best whole. Boil down any trimmings for gravy. Put this, witli some good beef gravy, into a pio-dish, and lay in the bu-ds with bits of butter over them; or a rump-steak, well seasoned, may bo laid in the bottom of the pie-dish, with the gravy from the trimmings. Cover with a puff paste and bake, but do not overdi-ess it. If the pie is to be eaten hot, a little melted butter, mixed with a glassful of claret, and the juice from a lemon may be poui-ed into it thi'ough a funnel; but for a cold pie this is not necessary. Time, thiec- quarters to one horn- to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of fowl, 2s. Moor Game, Roasted.—Cut off the head, wipe out the inside, and truss like a fowl. I'lcnty of butter to baste and a quick fire are in- dispensable. If overdone, moor game are spoiled. Serve them on buttered toast soaked in the dripping-pan, with plain melted butter thrown over them, or, if preferred, a gravy and bread sauce. The delicious aroma of the moor fowl is lost if other seasoning than pepper and salt be given it. Fine bread-crumbs, toasted with butter to a light brown, should accompany this dish. Time, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. the brace. Sufficient, two for a dish. Moor Game Salad (a la Soyer). —Put a slight layer of butter round a dish, by means of which secure a border of hard-boiled eggs. Cut into four, lengthways, taking off the lip to make them stand. FLU the dish with a season- able fresh salad; garnish the egg-border taste- fully, with beetroot, fillets of anchovies, or gherkins. For the sauce observe the following instructions : — Take two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, two of poimded sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped tarragon and chervil, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, two of salt, twelve table- spoonfuls of salad-oil (which should be very gradually mixed), and three of chilli vinegar. When mixed keep it on ice imtil wanted, and when ready to serve add half a pint of whipped cream. Pour a little of the sauce over the salad. Arrange the inferior parts of three roast grouse on the top, over which pour more sauce, and continue to place the joints in a pyramidtil form wth the sauce, until all bo well used up. Mr. Soyer considered this salad " better adapted to gentlemen than ladies." Moor Game Soup.—Take the pot-liquor of a boiled turkey; add any inferior parts of game, with the gizzards, crops, and livers, and boil it until reduced to two quarts ; then strain. Skin the birds, and cut them iato neat pieces; fry them in butter, with a few thin bUcoh of lean liam, an onion, a carrot, and part of a turnip, all sliced. Drain, and put the game into tlie stock, with a head of celery cut into inch lengtliB, and some parsley; a few Jamaica peppers and cloves may be added; but much seasoning should Ijo avoided, as it destroys the llavour of the game. Slices of veniB<jn, or the trimmings, will add much to the flavour of thia SOUf). Moor Game, Stewed,—Cut the birds into jomts, if large, but only quarter small ones; rather old birds nuiy be utilised by thiii mode of cooking. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a large stewpan, lay in the joints, brown them over a slow fire, take them out, make a gravy in the pan, adding a small cup of stock and a couple of glassfuls of port vmie, with a bit of garUc the size of a pea; season with white pepper, salt, and cayenne, it approved, and simmer slowly until tender. Thirty minutes will be suflicient time for young birds. The skin should be removed from old ones before they are fried. Probable cost, uncertain. Morella Cherries [nee Cherries, Morella). Morella Cherry Brandy.—Select fine ripe fruit gathered on a dry day; cut off the stalks to within an inch, and put them at once into wide-necked quart bottles. Allow to every pound of fruit four ounces of white sugar- candy or loaf sugar, and a pint of the best brandy. Some cherry or peach kernels will improve the flavom-; tie the bottles down with bladder, and store in a diy place. Do not put all the sugar at the top or bottom of the bottle, but distribute it equally amongst the cherries. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. per pound. UORELS. Morels.—The morel is one of the few edible fungi found in this country which may be employed as food with safety. It is much more common, however, in many parts of the middle and south of Europe than here. It is nutritious, and not diflicult to digest; the chief use to which it is put is to flavour sauces and gravies. It is used either fresh or dried, and is often brought to market in a dried state. It makes excellent ketchup. Morels, Sauce of.—Take green morels (when dried they impart little or no flavoirr to a dish), wash and stew thorn in a tightly closed pan, with a good lump of butter: when tender take out the morels, add some flour, let it brown in the butter, and use good erravy to make it of the proper consistency. Flavour with grated