MAP MAN ( 405 ) Mango.—Of all the tropical fruits, the mango is one of the most grateful to Europeans. In fonn it is like a short, thick cucumber. The Bkin of the fruit is thick, and the inteiior con- sists of a pulp, which melts in the mouth with cooling sweetness. Mango Chutney.—Peel, core, and quarter six poimds of sour apples, and boil them in nearly two pints of vinegar; pound eight ounces of onions, about ten or twelve ounces of ginger, and four ounces of garlic together; add these to the apples and vinegar, with twelve ounces each of sugar (which should be first dissolved), stoned raisins, and mustard-seed; this last should be washed in vinegar, and dried in the 8\m, before being added. Mix weU in a large bowl, and throw in, while mixing, another pint of vinegar, and four ounces of diied chillies. Bottle at once closely and tie bladder over the cork. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. for this quantity. Mangoes, Cucumber {see Cucumber Mangoes). Mangoes, Melon [nee Melon Mangoes). Mangoes, Pickled.—Take a melon of the sort generally used for pickling, first seeing that it is not quite ripe; cut ofi: a slice from the top, and carefully pick out all the seeds. Shi'ed finely one ounce of garlic; mix it with two ounces of mustard-seed, and the seeds of the melon. Now, put this back as a stuffing, place the top on, and bind it down. Boil, in two quarts of best vinegar, one ounce of Jamaica peppers, one oimce of whole allspice, one ounce of bruised ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt; when boUing pour it over the melon. The same vinegar must be put into a saucepan, boiled up again, and thrown over the melon for three successive diiys, or more if possible ; then tie down with bladder to exclude the air. Manna Croup Pudding. — This pud- ding is made in the same way as most grain- puddings, but may be greatly improved by add- ing a few choppiid or pounded almonds. Boil six dessert-spoonfuls of manna croup in a pint of new milk, with half an oimce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and eight lumps of white sugar, for two minutes, then pour the mixture into a buttered pic-dish, and let it stfind for twenty minutes. ^Vhon almost cold, stir in three weU-bcatcn eggs, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty or thirty-five minutes. I'robable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Manna Groats or Manna Croup.— This is a kind of semolina, prepared in Russia— usually from the hard wheats of Odessa and Taganrog. «' In the process of grinding for flour, small rounded fragments of these hard grains are obtained from the grooves of the grinding-stones, and these constitute the ordi- nary manna groats, which forms one of the most esteemed materials for puddings. It is undistinguishable from the semolina of Italy. Another kind is mjide by husking the .small gniin of the aquatic grass Glycerin- Jlidtam, which is carefully collected for the purpose; it 18 expensive, and is only used as a luxury. Small quantities of the common kind are occasionally imported into this country, but it is by no means sufficiently well known." Mansfield Pudding.—Chop three ounces of suet; add to it one table-spoonful of flour, four table-spoonfuls of currants, a pincu of nut- meg, two oimces of moist sugar, the soft part of a French roll, which has been previously soaked in half a pint of boiling cream or milk, and well beaten, a table-spoonful of brandy, a table- spoonful of cream, and two eggs. Beat the pudding with a fork for four or five minutes, and put it into a buttered dish, or into a china mould, if preferred. Time to bake in a mode- rate oven, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Manx Cake.—Rub oflE the peel from half a large lemon on lumps of sugar; ascertain the weight of sugar, and add as much more of pounded sugar as wiU make eight ounces in all. Mix the pounded sugar with eight ounces of rice-flom\ Beat eight eggs until you can take up a spoonful free from strings; dissolve the lumps of sugar in the beaten eggs, and mix them gradually with the flour. "When these ingredients are well beaten together, bake in a buttered tin. Time, thirty minutes to bake; to beat the eggs, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quantity. Maple.—The sugar-maple is a species of maple not unlike the sycamore. It abounds in the northern distncts of the United States and in the British North American possessions. Large quantities of sugar are made from it, but almost solely for domestic use. A single tree yields from two to six pounds of sugar in a season. Maple Sugar, Apparatus required for Making. — In many localities, where wood is no object, a rude method of boiling is followed ; but where fuel is sairce, a cheap apparatus should be prepared that will require but little fuel. In some districts broad pans or- kettles have been made, of sheet-iron bottoms, and sides of plank or boards, care being taken to allow the fire to come in centact with the iron only. These pans cost but a trifle, and, owing to their large surface, the evaporation is rapid. Another cheap construction for boiling with economy is to make a light box of plank, some four or five feet square—the width of a wide plank will answer—^and then put into it, almost at the bottom, a piece of large copper funnel, say ten or twelve inches at the outer part, and then smaller. This funnel, beginning near one end, should run back nearly to the opposite side, then turn, and come out at the opposite end—or at the side near the end, as most convenient—being in only two straight parts, that the soot may be cleared out. Each end should be made tight with a flange naUed to the box. At the mouth of the large part there should be a door to reduce the draught; hero make the fire, and at the other end have a funnel to carry ofl: the smoke. In this case there is only sheet-copper between the fire and tlie sap which sun-ounds the funnel, so that the heat is readily taken up by the liquid, and very httle escapes. For catching the sap vanous kinds of vessels are used. The cheapes