GUI ( 286 ) GXJA Guava Jelly. Imitation of.—Take a gallon oi largo bullaccs, di-aw a darning-needlo tlirough each oiio, to mako a slit in it, and put thom into doop earthen jars, niixinf^ witli thwn two pounds of red puuns—the linperatrivc plum is the most suitable. Place the jare in a saucepan, three-parts tilled with water, and simmer very gently for a couple of hours, or until the juice flows freely. Pour it from the plums, pass it through a jelly-bag two or three times to clear it, and weigh it. Boil it quickly for twenty minutes, then add throe pounds of sugar to four pounds of juice. Boil again, skimming carefully, until the jelly will set when a little is poiu-ed on a plate. This will be in about twelve minutes. Poui- the jelly into small jars, lay a piece of oiled paper on each, and cover closely -with bladder, or thin paper dipped in gum-water. The plums should not be loft too dry. They can then be boiled with a little sugar, to make common jam. Sufficient, a pound and a half of plums will jneld, on an average, one pound of juice. Gudgeon, The.—The gudgeon is a small, but nicely-flavoured fresh-water fish, chiefly used as a garnish. It is in season from Mid- summer to the end of November. Gudgeon, Fried. — Cleanse the fish thorouglily, take out the inside, and remove the giUs, but do not scrape off' the scales. Wipe them dry with a soft cloth, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot dripping or lard till nicely browned. Time, about four minutes to fry. Probable cost, uncertain, as the gudgeon is seldom offered for sale. Suffi- cient, about four for one person. Guernsey Buns.—Rub four ounces of butter into one pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt and two table-spoonfuls of yeast, with as much milk as will form a dough. Let it rise. Divide it into buns about the size of an egg. Place these on buttered tins, three inches apart, and put them in a warm place. When they have risen to twice their original size, bake them in a quick oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, a halfpenny each. Sufficient for eight or nine buns. Guernsey Cake.—Rub six ounces of butter to a cream, and work into it four ounces of flour and two ounces of ground rice ; add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of finely- sifted loaf sugar, an ounce of candied lemon, finely minced, two ounces of dried cherries, and one ounce of angelica, chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, four drops ■of almond essence, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Line a cake-tin ^^^th oiled paper, and when everything is prepared, add the whites of two eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Beat all together for fully ten minutes, pour into the mould, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Suffi- cient for a two-pound tin. Guernsey Pudding.—Boil three oimccs of rice in a pint of now milk, with an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, and three cloves, till it can be beaten to a pulp. Sweeten it, take out the spices and lemon-rind, and mix with it some apple marmalade, made by boiling six largo Hjiplos, j)(;(;led and quartered, with four table-Bj)0()iif uls of sheiTy. When cool, nnx tho- ajjijles with the rice, sweeten according to taste, and add tho whites of five eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Beat altogether for ten minutes, poui- tho mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for an hour and a quarter. Make a pint of custard with the yolks of the eggs, and send it to table cold with the pudding. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Guinea-fowl, The.—The flesh of the guinea-fowl is excellent, being both savoury GtJINEA FOWL. and digestible; and, as it is in season when game is out—namely, from Februarj^ to June—■ it forms a convenient substitute. When well kept, it is not unlike the pheasant in taste and appearance. Guinea-fowl Soup. — Take the re- mains of a cold roasted guinea-fowl. Pick off aU the meat, and put the bones, skin, trim- mings, and forcemeat into a saucepan, with two quarts of stock, a slice of mdrcssed lean ham, an onion, and half a drachm of bruised celery-seed, tied in muslin, or the outer sticks of celerj^, preserved for flavouring. Simmer gently for two hours. Pound the meat in a mortar, %vith a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the eighth of a nutmeg, grated. Strain the soup, and return it to the saucepan. Add the pounded meat, and a heaped table-spoonful of ground rice, mixed smoothly with a little cold water, lioil twenty minutes longer, and serve with toasted sippets sent to table ^s-ith the soup. Probable cost, 4s., exclusive of the stock and meat. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Guinea-fowl, To Roast.—^^^lcn the guinea-fowl is larded, it sliould be trussed hke a pheasant, otherwise it should be trussed like a vo(mg turkey, with the head left on. Fill it "with a good forcemeat, put it down to a clear fire, and baste it constantly, or the flesh will be dry. A few minutes before it is tnkon up, dredge a little flour over, and froth it nicely. Send brown gravy and bread-»iuco to table" with the liird. Time, an hour, or r. little more. Suflicient for four or five persons.