OYS (; OYS anchovy, and stir it over a gontlo firo for a quarter of an hour. Pour it into tho turoon upon tho oystors. and servo iniinodiatoly. If proforrod, milk may l)o usod instead of cream in makinf? this soup. Probable cost, 4s. Gd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Soup of (another way).—Open and bciu-d two dozen oysters, cut thorn into halves, and put thorn into a soup tui-een. Boil the beards in a qufu-t of mutton broth for a few minutes, then strain them, throw them aside, and thicken the soup with throe dessert- spoonfuls of arrowroot. Muko it (juito smootli, and boil it quickly for a quarter of an hour. Strain it tlirough a hair-sievo, add the oyster liquor, a little siilt, a pinch of cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and simmer gently for five minutes. Pour the soup into the tureen upon the oysters, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, Soup of, Economical.—Cut half tho meat from a scalded ox-heel into neat pieces about the size of a small oyster. Put them into a stewpan with three pints of good stock, thickened with a little flour and butter. Add a pinch of cayenne and a glassful of sherrj^, and boil gently for two hours, then put in a dozen and a half of bearded oysters and their liquid, simmer five minutes longer, and serve. Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Principles of Cookery—Soup). Oysters, Soup of. Rich.—Take three dozen oysters; beard them, and let the beards boU for a few minutes in two pints of fish stock. Pound half the oysters in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Strain the stock, stir the pounded mixture into it, add the oyster liquor, and sim- mer all together for half an hour. Add a Little more salt and pepper, if necessary, and a pinch of cayenne, together with the rest of the oysters, and the yolks of two unboiled eggs, which have been well beaten. The soup must not boil after the oysters and raw eggs are added: it must be stirred by the side of the fire until it is thick and smooth, and then ponred into a tureen, and served very hot. Time, one hour. Probable cost, os. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Oysters, Stewed. — Beard two dozen freshly-opened oysters, put them into a basin, and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon. Put the beards and the oyster liquor into a saucepan with half a blade of mace, half a dozen bruised peppercorns, half an inch of lemon-rind, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain the liquid, thicken it with an ounce and a half of butter, smoothly mixed with a large tea-spoonful of flour, add a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir tho sauce over a gentle fire until it is smooth and thick. Put in the oysters, and lot them warm through (they must not boil, or they will bo hard and shrunken). Place a slice of toasted bread on a hot dish, pour the oysters and tho gravy upon this, and servo. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for throe or four personB. Oysters, Stewed, Economical.—Open a dozen oysters, and carefully preserve the liquor. Put a piece of butter tlie size of a small egg into an enam(;lled s,'iucepan, pour the oysters and their liquor upon this, and di'odge a little flour over them. Sciason with a pinch of salt and cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg, and add three table-spoonfuls of cold water. Shake the saucepan over a gentle fire until tho sauce is smooth and thick, but the oysters must not be allowed to boil. Sc-rve on Umst, and pour out the gravy very carefully, so an in leave undisturbed any grit or sediment that may have settled to the bottom. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for one or two persons. Oysters, Sweetbread and.—Take a calf's sweetbread. Soak it in cold water for an hour, boU it in salt and water for ten minutes, and then cut it into pieces about the size of an oyster, and with it two ounces of bacon. Beard a dozen large oysters, and mix them with the meat. Sprinkle over all a little pepper and salt, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs. Place the sweetbread, oysters, and bacon alternately upon small skewers. Fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned, then remove the skewei-s, and serve the oysters, &c., on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour half a pint of good brown gravy upon them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Oysters, To Keep.—Cover the oj-sters with cold salt and water, allowing six ounces of salt to each gallon of water. When they have lain for twelve hours, drain them, and leave them bare for the same length of time, then put fresh salt and water over them again, and repeat this change every twelve hours until the oysters are wanted for the table. Thej' may be kept alive thus for a week or ten days in moderate weather. When oysters are carefully and tightly packed in barrels directly they are taken from the beds, they wiil keep good for some days without water. A handful of oatmeal is occasionally put into the water which covers them, with the idea of feeding the oysters, but though this improves their appear- ance, it quite spoils their flavour. Oysters, Vol-au-Vent of. —Put half a pound of di-ied and sifted flour into a basin, salt it slightly, and make it into a soft piiste by stirring into it tho yolk of an egg, which has been beaten up with the strained juice of half a lemon and a little cold water. Put the paste on a slab, and lay half a pound of fresh butter in the middle of "it, then roll it out four or five times, and put it in a cold place for an hotir. At the end of that time roll it out again once or t^^^ce, and leave it a little more than an inch thick. Dip a knife into hot water, and cut the paste to the size and shape of the dish on wliich the vol-au-vcnt is to be served. Mark the cover by making an even incision the third of an