( 482 ) ORA ORA Oranges, Compote of.—Pare tho rind vory tkiixty oit throe or four liirgo sound orangoH. Cut tho fruit across into halvos, removing tho •whito skin and pips, and pilo the oranges in a glass dish. Boil the rind with half a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar until tho syrup is clear; mix a table-spoonful of brandy with it, and strain it over tho fruit. "When cold it is ready to servo. A table-spoon- ful of arrowroot niay be mixed with tho syrup to thicken it, and two or thi-ee drops of cochi- neal may be put by way of colouring. Time, five or ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, exclusive of tho brandy, id. Sufficient for three or four persons. Oranges Filled with Jelly.—When a large variety of dishes is required, orange-skins are sometimes emptied entirely of the fruit, cut out in the shape of baskets, and filled with bright clear jeUy of different colours. They look pretty, vory great care and a sharp knife, however, are required to make them. The handle of the basket should be cut across the stalk-end of the fruit, and should be fully half CRANQES FILLED WITH JELLT. an inch wide. The basket-part should take up half of the orange. The best way to make these baskets is to mark out their shape first ■without piercing the fruit, then take away the quarters of the rind which will not be required, and pass the flat part of a tea-spoon carefully \inder the handle to separate it from the frwit, •which must then be pressed out through the empty spaces. The jelly should be nearly cold before it is put into the skins. Probable cost, oranges, Id. each. (See Jelly in Orauge Skins). Oranges in Syrup (a dessert dish).—Peel four or five large oranges, and remove all the ■white pith and thready parts without injuring in the slightest degree the thin transparent skin which covers the fruit. Boil half a pound of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water to a clear syrup, add a wine-glassful of maraschino or any other liqueur or spirit that may be pre- ferred, and pour the hot hquid over the oranges. Let them remain for three or four hours, then turn them over; boil tho syrup up once more, and pour it again upon the oranges. Serve in a compote dish, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. The quantity of sugar used for tho syrup must depend upon the season, and if it is early in the "winter, and the oranges aro sour, a larger pro- poition of sugar should be used, and besides this tho oranges should be boiled in the syrup for a few minutes. Time, ten minutes to boil the syrup. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, Gd. Sufficient for four or five persons, i Oranges, Moulded (a pretty supper dish). —This dish, though very pretty, is lather dif- ficult to prepare. Peel three or four krgo oranges, being careful not to break the thin skin winch divides them. Oil a small plam mould thoroughly. Boil a quarter of a pormd of loaf sugar in three table-spoonfuls of water to crack- ling height, dip the edges of the orange-sections into this, arrange them in layers round the sides only of the mould, and fasten them to- gether -with the sugar. When they are firm, turn them on a dish, and fiU the centre with whipped cream. Time, ten or twelve minutes to boil the sugar. Probable cost, exclusive of the cream, 6d. Sufficient for a srnall mould. Oranges, Pickled.—Take half a dozen fine Se-ville oranges. Cut them deeply, rub them well with salt, and let them stand in a warm place for four or five days. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of coriander-seeds over them, and cover them -with a pint and a half of boiling ■vinegar in which two blades of mace have been simmered for two minutes. Boil the ■vinegar once or t'wice, and pour it again upon the oranges, then cover the jar ■with bladder, and store for use. This pickle ought to be kept fully two months before it is used. It should be served with -wild fowl. Time, six or eight minutes to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Oranges Preserved "Whole.-Take some Seville oranges. Weigh them, and allow two pounds of sugar to every pound of fruit. Scrape or grate off the thin outside of the rind. Make a small hole about the size of a sixpence in the top of each, and scoop out the pulp. Lay the oranges in cold water, and let them remain for three days, changing the water twice a day. Drain the oranges, put them into a large pan ■with as much cold water as will cover them, and boU them gently until they are tender. Boil the sugar to a syrup, putting half a pint of water to every pound of sugar. Add the pulp and juice ; let aU boil together for ten minutes, then skim carefully, pour the sjTup over tho oranges, and let them stand for an hour or two. Put them back into the preserAang-pan, and simmer gently until the oranges look clear, which should be in about half an hour, but if this is not the case, turn tho fruit into a bowl, boil the syrup every day for three days, and pour it hot upon the oranges. The juice of a lemon may be added to the syrup if this is Uked. Put the oranges side by side—the holes uppermost —into large shallow jars, pour tho sjTup over them, cover closely, and store in a cool dry