( 322 ) ICjl HUN ounce of candied lemon. When the dry ingre- dients arc thoroughly mixed, stir in four well- beaten eggs, and either milk, beer, port wine, or brandy sufficient to make a stiff batter. Put the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil for six or seven hours. Tliis pudding will keep for several months, and when used may be cither cut into slices and fi-ied, or plunged again into boiling water and boiled for an hour. Several puddings may be mixed and boiled together, and are very useful for keeping in the house to be used as occasion requires. If finely- minced cooked meat be substituted for the suet, this pudding may be eaten cold. Another excel- lent hunter's pudding may be made by taking a pound and a half of the mince made for mince pies, mixing it with six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs and three eggs. Probable cost, Is. 3d., exclusive of the wine, &c. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hunter's Salmi. — Take cold roast game—if under-dressed so 'much the better— carve it into neat joints, remove the skin, &c., score the flesh lightly across in two or three places, dredge a little salt and cayenne over, and put them into a saucepan. Squeeze the strained juice of a lemon over them, and add a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, three table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, and six of light wine. Let the pieces of meat remain until they are quite hot, and send rusks or grilled crusts to table with them. Time, a few minutes to heat through. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the game and wine. Sufficient, one bird for two or three persons. Hunter's Sandwiches.—When sand- wiches have to be kept a little while in the pocket before being used, they should be toasted -lightly on the outside. This will keep them from criunbling. Hunter's Soup.—Partially roast a brace of well-kept partridges, or a partridge and a grouse. Put them ratber close to a clear fire, and baste tbem plentifully. As soon as tbe outside is well browned take them up, and when nearly cool cut tbe meat from the bones in neat fillets, and bruise the bones thoroughly. Cut half a pound of lean ham into dice, and fry these in two ounces of butter witb a sliced carrot, an onion, and a little parsley. Mix in very smoothly two table-spoonfuls of flour or ground rice, and when slightly browned add two quarts of strong beef gravy, the bruised bones, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer gently for two hours, then strain the soup. Add the slices of meat and a glass of claret, and let it heat once more without boiling. Serve the meat with the soup. Time, twenty minutes to roast the partridges. Probable cost, uncertain, game bemg variable in price. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Hunting Game Pie {see Game Pie, Hunting). Hyssop Tea (Invalid Cookehy) .—Pour a quart of boiling water over half an ounce of dried hyssop-flowers. Cover it closely, and let it remain for a quarter of an hour. Strain the infusion, and swooton it-s\nth a table-spoonful ot boncy. Two table-spoonfuls should bo taken three times a day. Hyssop tea is good for chest diseases. Probable cost, 3d. Suflicient for a quart. Ice Colour.—Ices are sometimes coloured simply with cochineal, but we api>end the follow- ing recipe, copied from good authority :—Boil over a slow fire for five or six minutes in a pint of water, or clarified sugar if not to be used too quickly, equal quantities of cochineal (bruised) and salts of wormwood, an ounce of each. Add three ounces of cream of tartar, and an ounce of rock alum; but remove the saucepan from the fire before putting in the cream of tartar, &c., or it will boil over, and the whole mixture will be spoiled. Ice, Mock.—Dissolve an ounce of gelatine in a cupful of milk. Put ydth it one pint of fresh fruit (strawberries, raspberries, or red currants) which has been rubbed through a sieve, and add half a pint of cream and a little sugar. Put the cream into a mould tiU set. If liked, melted jam can be used instead of the fruit pulp. Ice, Preservation and Cutting of. —Ice may be preserved by burying it in saw- dust, or wrapping it first in paper then in flannel, and keeping it in a tub with flannel thrown over. The paper and flannel must be changed when wet. Ice may be divided into small pieces by placing a needle point down- wards on the ice, and striking the head of it with a small hammer. Iced Pudding.—Make a custard with half a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a little vanilla. When thick and smooth add half a pint of cream and half a gill of maraschino. Freeze till stiff. Take two ounces of stale sponge cake soaked in cream and two ounces of dried fruit consisting of dried cherries and pine-apple cut small. Put the mould in ice. Place a little of the ice cnmm at the bottom, then a layer of fruit and another of sponge cake. Repeat till the mould is full Cover closely and imbed in ice. Iced Pudding (another way).—Beat up eight eggs, and add to them tweh'e ounces of good sugar and a pint and a half of new milk. Poimd together in a mortar sweet and bitter almonds, half a pound of the former and two ounces of the latter, which should be blanched, and dried in a clean cloth, then pounded, and put with the other ingredients into a well- lined saucepan. Stir, and let the pudding thicken, but do not let it boil. Strain and put it into the freezing-pot for half an hour, when it should be transposed to an ice-pudding mould, and kept in the ice imtil required for use. Serve turned out, with a compote of fruit in the dish, and some over the top of the pudding A gill of cura90K, maraschino, or any other liqueur will improve the pudding. Iced Punch.—Get three medium-sized lemons, or two liirge ones, with good roug'ii rinds, and eight ounces of sugar in lumps.