(38) AUS AITS two or throo lumps of supar into an iron spoon, and molt them over Iho lire until the sugar is a dark brown—not black. Dissolve this in a little boiling water, and add it to the gravy, which ought to bo a rich brown colour and as thick as cream. Put in the pieces of meat, lot them simmer for three or four minutes, and serve on a hot dish. Time, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Australian Beef, Cold.—The bull's- head knife is the best for opening the tins of Australian meat. Make a hole with the sharp point about half an inch from the top. Put the sharp end of the knife into the hole and work round until the top of the tin is taken com- pletely off. Turn the meat out firm into the dish. Remove every particle of dripping and jelly, and servo with salad, pickles, and mashed potatoes. The dripping may be clarified, and used for frying or making plain pastry, and the jelly is a valuable addition to stock or beef-tea. Sufficient, one two-pound tin for four persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. Australian Beef Collops.—Mince finely one poimd of Australian beef. Place a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, and when melted fry in it one onion chopped small, till it is lightly browned. Then add a ci5)f ul of nicely-flavoured stock, the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and the mince. Let all simmer together a minute, then serve in a hot dish with sippets of toast. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Australian Beef, Curried.—Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg in a saucepan, and place in it half a Spanish onion sliced. Fry it to a light brown; then add a sour apple, finely minced, and a cupful of nicely-flavoured stock. Work in very smoothly a table-spoonful of curry paste. Let aU boil together, stirring aU the time, for three or four minutes, press the sauce through a sieve, and add square pieces of Australian beef dredged with flour. Simmer five minutes longer, during which time the meat must be covered with the gravy. Serve with a border of boiled rice round the dish, and the meat and gravy in the middle. Time to pre- pare, ten minutes. Allow the contents of a two-pound tin for six people. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Australian Beef Mould.—Prepare one pound of beef in the same way as for rissoles, omitting the egg and bread-crumbs. Put it into a well-oiled mould, tie it in a cloth, and steam it for an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour good gravy round it. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four persons. Australian Beef Pie.—Cut the meat into pieces about the size of a walnut and lay them in a pie-dish, with pepper, salt, and a little nicely-flavoured stock. Cover the whole with mashed potatoes about an inch and a half in thickness, and brown in a good oven. Time to brown, twenty minutes. A pie made with two pounds of meat is sufficient for four or five MjrBona, Pr9l»ble cost, Is. 64. Australian Beef Pie (another way).— Stew a pound of frosli m(jat until tender. Place it in a pie-dish with the gravy in which it was stowed, a pound of Australian beef, and the contents of a tin of oysters. Place them in layers, cover with a light crust, and bake in a quick oven. Time to buko, half an hour. Suf- liciout for five or six i>er8onjH. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Australian Beef Bissoles. — Mince finely one pound of Australian beef and half a pound of bread-crumbs. Mix thoroughly with it a quarter of a pound of dripping, a little salt, a rather plentiful supply of pepper, and one egg well beaten. Roll into pats, dip them in egg and bread, and fry in boiling oil or lard until they are nicely browned. Serve in a dish with a little good gravy round them. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four persons. Australian Beef, Boast. —Take off the fat and gravy, tie the solid meat from a four-pound tin tightly together with tapes, flour it well, and hang it before a brisk fire for half an hour, basting it well with the fat and gravy which was taken from it. Pour off the dripping, and make gravy in the usual way. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Australian Beef and Jelly. (Imita- tion calf's head.)—Soak an ounce of the best gelatine in half a pint of cold water for twenty minutes. Add to this half a pint of nicely- flavoured stock, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a glass of white wine. Put it on the fire, stir it imtil the gelatine is dissolved, and clear off with white of egg (se* Aspic Jelly). Place a little of the jelly at the bottom of a damp mould. Let it set, then cut two hard-boiled eggs into rings, diamonds, or any ornamental devices; place them on the jelly, and nearly fiU the mould with pieces of Australian beef or mutton. Do not pack it tightly, but leave space for the jelly to run in between. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, then fill up the mould with the re- mainder of the jelly. Turn it out when cold. This is a nice breakfast or supper dish. Time, five or six hours. Australian Beef and Macaroni.- Put four ovmces of. macaroni into sufficient boiling water, and let it stew until tender. Mince finely two pounds of Australian beef, flavour it with salt, pepper, and a little powdered cinnamon. Make it quite hot, moistening it with a cupful of nicely-flavoured stock; lay it on a round of toast, with the macaroni over it, and serve with hot mashed potatoes. Time to boil the macaroni, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Australian Beef and Mushrooms (delicious).—Take half a pint of mushroom buttons, pare them, cut the ends off the stalks, and place them in cold water. Melt a piece of butter in a fite\\-pan, put the mush- rooms into it, with a little pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. Let them simmer gently until tender ; then add a cupful of nicely- flavonrod stock, and put with tht^m one pound 9f Australiaii beef, put iflto square pieces about