MEA MEA ( 414 ) 6 IhH. when duly boilod lost i lb. ItB hone, jR^ectly clcarod of meat, weighed 2 lbs. 6 oz.; the meat woighod 3 lbs. 2 oz. A goose, pro- jjcrly trussed, weighed 4i lbs. ; in this state it was roasted, and when sufficiently done was found to have lost 18 oz. The skeleton weighed 12 oz.; the meat weighed 3 lbs. A turkey, with its liver and gizzard, weighing 4 lbs. 14 oz., was boiled ; it lost 12 oz.; the skeleton weighed 13i oz. ; the moat 3 lbs. ii oz. A young duck, weighing 20 oz., lost oz. in roasting; its bones weighed 2^g oz.; the meat was 12^oz. A fowl, with its liver and gizzard, weighing lbs., was roasted; it lost 3 oz.; the skeleton weighed 4i oz., and the flesh IG^oz. A fine mackerel which, when trimmed and ready for boiling, weighed 23|^ oz. (including the weight of the roe, 23^ oz.) It lost 1| oz. in the boiling; the skeleton, carefully collected, along with gills, fins, and tail, weighed 4^ oz. Meat Croquettes.—Take any kind of cooked meat at hand. The remains of fowl, a few slices of ham, with an appropriate season- ing of chopped mushrooms, grated nutmeg, pepper, &c.; or cold roast beef, with a small bunch of mixed savoury herbs, some minced shallot, an anchovy, pepper, and salt. Put the meat into a stewpan. If fowl, allow to every half pound of meat two otmces of ham, which may be chopped, or cut in small slices. Moisten with three table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and stew for a few minutes, when stir in the yolks of three eggs, and let it stand until the eggs are set. Turn the meat out on a large dish, spread it over evenly, and when quite cold divide it into equal portions, and, with the help of fine bread-crumbs, roll into balls or make them taper, according to fancy; smear well with egg, and cover thickly with more bread-crumbs. Fry at once in boiling lard, drain, and serve on a napkin, with a garnish of parsley. For beef croquettes, add oysters, cut into four, after the eggs have set, and use some of their liquor for the sauce. If white sauce is not at hand, melt an ounce of butter, mix in a spoonful of flour, add a gill of stock, and stir in a pound of mince. Meat. Essences and Extracts of.— As preparations of meat called essences or extracts are'now largely introduced, and are attracting considerable public attention, we should be wrong in omitting to mention them here. Their great merit is their convenience, and the almost instantaneous promptness with which by their means a basin of soup can be served. The essence must be selected and prepared with some care and judgment. If the dose is too large, the broth becomes unpalatable. This subject has recently received much attention from members of the medical profession and others, and various opinions have been expressed, but we nevertheless think our readers, like our- selves, will prefer relying on an able medical opinion rather than on their own unsupported judgment. These essences are prepared from fresh meat in such a manner that the fibre ind fat are left behind, only the ozmazome (or flavouring property), certain salts, and a very small quantity of albumen, remain. The quality of this food is determined by the first- mentioned substance, and with a tea-spoonful of the essence about a pint of broth may be made, which, although thin to thfi palate, is au full of the flavour of meat as when beef-tea is prepared at home. The salts are not perceptible to the senses, but they consist, in part, of phos- phJitos, and are very valuable. The albumen is necessarily in very small quantity, frc n the small amount of the extract of meat which is used. Liebig's essence of meat, however, is a valuable addition to a traveller's stores, since it occupies a very small space, and, with hot water, ho may at any time prepare a basin of soup in two minutes, which would be more useful to him than any other fluid. It is particularly suited to those who abstain from intoxicating diinks. A considerable amount of fibre, with tibrine, gelatine, fat, and some albumen, ia left behind. That fibre is digestible is proved by the fact, that in fresh meat it is nearly all digested; that it is highly nutritious is proved by its chemical composition. Hence, where health exists, it is best not to throw away thia material. That it will not alotie support life is true; the salts necessary to life, and fat highly important to life, are absent from it; but that does not in the least prove that it is not of great value as part of a dietarj'. When one tea- spoonful of the essence has been dissolved in about a pint of hot water, and seasoned with pepper and salt, it forms an agreeable and stimulating beverage, but should not be re- garded as food for every-day use. In this respect it must be ranked with tea and coffee. It may be advantageously thickened by adding a little sago; and vermicelli, macaroni, and various Italian pastes, are agreeable and proper additions. Its proper place is that of a luxury, and in some states of disease it is also a valuable food; but in health, the quantity of nutriment is too small to be computed, and its action upon nutrition is rather indirect, by stimulating the vital actions, than direct, by supplying food. For ordinary use, it is better for the housewife to make beef-tea from shins of beef, so as to ob- tain much gelatine, or from gravy-beef, and to serve up the solid part as food at the same meal. Our continental neighbours eat their bouilli and potage at the same meal; and so should we. Meat Gravy for Sauces.—This pre- paration may be used in the composition of various sauces. It is prepared by straining the gravy produced by the cooking of meat, and boiling it down at a gentle heat to the consistence of sauce. Sometimes it is thickened, without being boiled down, by the addition of various materials, such as a roux of flour and butter, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, tomato marmalade, or by chestnuts roasted and crushed to powder. Meat Gravy for Sauces and Similar Purposes.--Place in a stewpan slices of bacon, veal, and some minced ham. The weight of meat put in will of course depend upon the quantity of juice required. The rule is usually to employ one pound and a half of meat for each pint of gravy. Then place in the stewpan some onions, carrots, parsnips, celery, par.sley, thyme, chives, cloves, nutmeg, and pepper. Place the pan over a gentle fire until all the juice contained in the meat has escaped,