■hi i<!Tji ( 102 ) EEIi salt, and chopped parsley, and cover with pufp paste. Bako in a moderately brisk oven about one hour and a quarter, or the ouls may hu stowed fir«t for half an hour and then iinislied in the pie. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Eel Pie (another way).—Take eels that weigh not lossthuii half a pound when skinned. Put the heads, tails, and fins into a stowpan with some good veal broth, an onion, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon-pool, pepper, and salt. Cut tho fish into pieces of throe inches in length, and after soaking them in salt and water, rinse, drain, and lay them in a pie-dish with a season- ing of pepper and salt between each layer. ' When the broth is well flavoured, skim, and strain it into a basin to get cold, then pour it over the eels, and bake with an edging and cover of paste in a brisk oven. Warm a little gravy with two table-spoonfuls of cream, and pour it into the pie through a paper funnel as soon as it comes from the oven. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Two pounds sufi&cient for four or five persons. Eel Pie with Tench..—Skin two eels, and bone them, and clean and bone two tench. Cut the eels into two-inch pieces, but .the tench leave whole. Put water to the bones and trimmings, and stew them for one hour. This liquor, when strained, and the fat taken off, boiled with two onions, four blades of mace, three anchovies, pepper, salt, and a bunch of herbs, will be ready, when strained, for the pie. Lay the eels and the tench into a dish, with a few hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley, in layers, and pour in as much of the Uquor as is required. Cover with puff paste, and bake in a rather quick oven. More liquor may be added after the pie is done. Time, about thirty-five minutes to bake. Sufficient for four persons. Eel Soup.—Soak three pounds of middle- sized eels in salt and water. Cut off the heads, bone, and slice them thinly. Simmer them in a stewpan, with three ounces of good butter. Allow them ten minutes, and then add two quarts of water, an onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, three blades of mace, some pepper- corns, salt to taste, and a small roll. Simmer till the eels are tender, then remove them, and strain the liquid. Make a smooth batter with two table-spoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a pint of cream; put this and the liquid together, and boO. up, to throw over the sliced eels in the tureen. A piece of toasted bread cut into dice may be sent up with it. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, Is. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Eel Soup, Brown.—Fry three pounds of •els, after rolling them in flour, bread-crumbs, or batter. Open, take out the bones, and set them aside. Fry chopped onions brown in butter, browning afterwards enough flour to thicken the soup without egg-yolks. Stir in gradually either water or stock; during the process season as for oel soup, white {see Eel Soup, White). Put in tho eel, and if you will, add at the same time a glass of white wine. After one boil up, servo, accompanied by bread dice toasted or fried. Similar soups can bo made with other firm-floshod. middle. 8i:ced fish, as small conger, soles, k2 iiy tlie same tr(;utiju;nt cold remnants of fish of various kinds, both boil.^d and fried, may be economised by appearing in novel and palu- table forms of soup. 'I'hey can be enriched by any lobster, oyster, or anchovy sauce that ia lott. It you happen to have a few shiimps pick a hjindful; boil their sheik; with a little of the hquor give a slight flavour of shrimps to the soup, at tho same time tbit you throw in your shi-imp meats. These soups bear a dust of cayenne and sugar, and should be accom- panied by bread or rolls. Eel Soup, White.—Set a saucepan of water on tho fire; season with salt, whole pepper, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-peel, and a bunch of the most fragrant sweet herbs at command. When it boUs, throw in the eels. As soon as they are done enouffA (and they are spoiled if done too much)—^just enough to let the flesh come away from the bone—take them out, spHt them in two, and remove the bone. Each length of eel wiU thus make two pieces, which should be left entire. Set them aside. Chop fine three or four white onionB. RoU a lump of butter in flour; put it in a stewpan vsdth the onions; moisten gradually Avith a little of the eel broth. When the onions are tender, add the rest of the liquor (removing the herbs and the lemon-peel), stir- ring it in gradually, with a tea-cupful ot fresh milk. Throw in the eel meats, and set the soup aside until they are hot through. While they are so heating, you may further thicken with a couple of egg-yolks well worked into a little of the liquor. Taste if sufficiently sea- soned. You wlU find an almost imperceptible dust of sugar an improvement. In fact, most white soups, even when seasoned with salt, are the better for a sprinkling with sugar. Eels (a la Poulette).—When the eel has been skinned and cleaned, cut into pieces, and roll the pieces first in melted butter, and then in flour. Put the pieces of eel into a stewpan with equal qantities of white wine and water; add a bunch of herbs, some mushrooms, pepper, and salt, and stew till done ; then remove the fish, and thicken the gravy with flour, butter, and egg. After skimming off the fat from the sur- face, serve quickly, and add a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a little vinegar. Time to stew, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Eels (a la Tartare).—Skin and cleanse two oi three eels, cut thom into pieces of two inches, and let the pieces lie half an hour in salt and water. Take equal quantities of red wine and stock broth, a gill of each; simmer the pieces of eel in this until nearly done. "\\Tion cool, dip each piece separately into oiled butter or beaten egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and broil or fry till all are nicely browned. Serve with tartar sauce on the dish (see Tartar Sauce). Bread crusts broAvnod in the oven, and then pounded fine, make tho best crumbs for eels. Time, twenty-five minutes to simmer; to fry, five minutes. Sufficient, two pounds, for five or six persons.