; 359 ) LAM LAM minutes, then pour in a small cupful of cold water, di-aw it to the side of the fire, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer very gently for one horn-. Put the lamb on a hot dish, pour over it half a pint of parsley sauce, and serve as hot as possible. Turnips and carrots should be sent to table with it. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three persons. Lamb Pie.—A lamb pie may bo made either of the neck, breast, or loin of lamb, and of these the breast will be found to be much the best. Take about two pounds of meat, cut it up into neat pieces, and sprinkle over these a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of finely- miuced parsley. Put them in a pie-dish, take out some of the bones to stew down for gravy, and pour over them half a quarter of a pint of cold water. Line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover it with the same, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is sufficiently cooked, pour in a little good stock or meat jelly. Lamb pie is usually eaten cold. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Pudding.—Line a shallow, thick- rimmed basin with pastry about half an inch in thickness, and leave it half an inch over the edge. Take the large bones out of two pounds of a breast of lamb, cut it into convenient-sized pieces; season these lightly with pepper and salt, place them in layers in the pudding, and strew a table-spoonful of loose veal, stuffing over each layer. Put about a gill of water or mutton broth over the whole, lay a pastry cover on the top, moisten the edge, and draw it over carefully. Dip a pudding-cloth into j boiling water, dredge a little flour over, tie the basin rather loosely in it, plunge it into boiling water, and boil from two to three hours. Loc it stand two or three minutes before being turned out. .Place it on a hot dish, pour half a pint of parsley sauce over it, and serve at once. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lamb Ragout, with Sorrel (a German recipe).—Take two poimds of the breast of lamb, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as -will cover it, and let it simmer gently for a few minutes. Take it up, drain it, and cut it into small pieces about two inches square. Slice an onion, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a carrot, a stick of celerj'-, a sprig of parsley, another of basil, and two cloves. Let these steam softly for five or six minutes; dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add half a pint of boiling mutton gravy, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea- spoonful of pepper, and simmer until the sauce is as thick and smooth as cream. Put the pieces of lamb into another stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and let them remain over a gentle fire until the meat is quite tender. Beat the y<,^ks of two eggs, mix them -with a table-spoon- ful of sour cream, and stir gently into the eauce, first taking out the meat and placing it on one side. Pick the stems from two or three handfuls of sorrel-leaves; wash and drain them, and put thom into a closely-covered stewpan with two ounces of butter, and let them steam until soft; mix them with the sauce. When ready to serve, heat all together gently over the fire; the sauce must not be allowed to boil after the eggs are added. Time, altogether, an hour and a half. Probable cost of lamb, 9d. per poimd. Sufficient for throe persons. Lamb, Roll of.—Take three pounds of lean lamb, and mince it very finely with a pound of fat bacon. Mix with it a tea-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a lemon, the eighth of a nutmeg, gi-ated, a finely-minced, shallot, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and salt according to taste. The quantity of salt will depend upon the condition of the bacon. When thoroughly mixed, roll the seasoned meat into a neat shape, something like a roly-poly pudding; cover it with a thick fold of buttered paper, and place over this a coarse crust made of flom- and water. Put it in a moderate oven, and when cooked enough, remove the paste and paper, and serve the roll of lamb on a hot dish, with tomato or cucumber sauce round it, and green peas, spinach, or asjjaragus as an accompaniment. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lamb, Saddle of.—A saddle of lamb is an elegant and excellent joint for a small party. Cover it with buttered paper, and lay it down to a clear fire. Baste it well, and when nearly cooked enough, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it again i»til it is nicely browned. Mint sauce should be sent to table with it, and green peas, spinach, catili- flowers, or potatoes are very suitable as accom- paniments. Time to roast, about two hours or more, according to the size of the joint. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb, Saddle of (a la Venison).—This may be cooked in the way already described for leg of lamb {see Lamb, Leg of, a la Veni- son). Lamb, Saddle of, Boned, Boiled, and Braised.—Take all the bones from a saddle of lamb—if possible, without injuring the upper part of the skin. Lay the meat on the table, skin downwards, and spread over it a pound of good veal forcemeat. Roll it roimd and round, bind it securely, with plenty of tape, skewer slices of fat bacon over it, and put it into a braising-pan, with a pint and a half of white stock, three carrots, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three sticks of celery, and a dozen peppercorns. Sinmier gently for an hour and a half. Take out the meat, drain it, and, without remo^^ng the tajie, place it between two dishes; put a heavy weig'nt upon the top, and let it remain until it is quite cold and firm. Cover it with a coating of white sauce; let this stiffen, then brush the roll over with beaten egg, and cover it with light bread-raspings mixed with a tea-spoonful of grated Pai-mesan. Put the saddle in a moderate oven half an hour before it is wanted, that it may be heated through, and serve it on a hot dish. Garnish with dressed vegetables. Instead of being egged and bread-crumbed, the saddle may, after pressing, be heated in a little of the stock