( ni ) CAS CAU The skinimiugs of saucepans wiU answer for this purpose, or fat bacon, but if these are not at hand, use butter. Sinuncr very gently till the rice is quite soft but whole. Thou dram it, and pound it to a paste. WeU butter a baking dish or casserole mould, and press the paste mto it Mark on the top a cover, making the mark rather deep. Poui- a little butter over the whole, let it get cold, then turn it out of the mould, and bake it in a very hot oven till it is brightly browned, but not hard. The oven can scarcely be too hot for it. Take off the marked cover about an inch in depth. Scoop out the middle, and fill it with whatever is prepared for it. This may consist of mincemeat, Irish stew, rechaufled curries, hashes, or macaroni. Pom- in a suitable sauce, replace the cover, and be- fore serving, return it to the oven for a few minutes. Time to boU the rice, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclu- sive of the mincemeat, 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Casserole of Rice, with Eggs.—Pre- pare the rice as in the preceding recipe. When it has been worked into a stiff paste, line a weU- oiled mould with it; a piece of bread may be put inside, shaped properly, to hold it up, but care must be taken to leave a compact will all round. When baked, remove the bread, put in the mince or fricassee, and cover the top with poached eggs. Serve very hot. Time, three- quarters of an hour to boil the rice. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the mixture. Sufficient for six persons. Casserole, Sweet.—Prepare the rice as before, using milk instead of water, and butter instead of bacon or other fat. The flavouring may consist of lemon, vanilla, or almond, ac- cording to taste. When the pudding is browned, scoop the rice from the middle, leaving, as before, a firm wall all around, and fill the hollow with jam, or a compote of any fruit. The latter is, we think, much to be preferred. Sift a little pounded sugar over the whole before serving. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the fruit. Suffi- cient for a good and pretty dish. Cassile.—Put a pint of cream or new milk i into a saucepan with the thin rind of a lemon, ] and three or four lumps of sugar. Let it stand near the fire for a few minutes to draw out the flavour of the lemon, then boU it, and pour it, when boiling, over three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed smoothly with a small tea-cup- ful of cream. Return it to the saucepan, stir it over the fire for four minutes, pour into a damp mould, and when cold and firm, turn it into a glass dish, and serve with bright-coloured jam. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for a small dish. Cassolettes of Rice.—Prepare the rice as for a casserole {sec Casserole). Work it to a smooth paste, and fill some small jeUy-pots with it. Mark in each one an inner circle about three- quarters of an inch deep for the cover. When cold, turn the rice out, brush it over with egg, and brown in a quick oven. Take out the centre, fiU it with a ragout or mince, replace the cover, and serve. Cassolettes are. in fact, tiny casseroles. Some persons fry instead of baking them, but if this should be done, great care must be taken that they do not break in the process, and the butter or oil must be very hot. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. each. Allow one for each person. Caudle.—Caudle is oatmeal gruel, sweet- ened, with ale, brandy, or wine added to it.' It may be made in several ways. The simplest is the following :—Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal with a cupful of cold water. Pour a pint of boiling water or milk over it, return it to the saucepan, and let it boil for four or five minutes, stirring it aU the time. Add wine, ale, or brandy, according to taste. Sweeten, and season with nutmeg or ginger. This wiU. be thin caudle; if it is wanted thick, two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal must be used. Or, mix two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal in a pint of water. Let it stand one hour. Then strain, and boil it. Sweeten, and add wine, ale, or brandy, with seasoning to taste. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Caudle may be made with flour or ground rice instead of oatmeal. Probable cost, 1-Jd. per pint, ex- clusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle (another way).—^Make a pint of thin oatmeal gruel (see preceding recipe). Let it boil, then stir into it, very gradually, the yolk of an egg mixed with a little cold water. Add a glass of sherry or port, a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind, and three or four lumps of sugar. This caudle is wholesome and plea- sant. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. per pint, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle, Cold.—Pour a pint of cold boiled water on the rind of a small lemon, and let it stand for an hour. Take out the rind and mix in the yolk of an egg well beaten, a cupful of sweet wine, three or four lumps of sugar, and the lemon-juice. Probable cost, 2|d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Caudle, Old Fashioned Brown.— Stir two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal into a pint of water, and add the thin rind of a lemon, a blade of mace, and a table-spoonful of brown sugar. Let all boil together, then strain the liquid and add a pint of mild ale. Warm it for use. A little grated ginger is often put into this caudle. Or, make a little oatmeal gruel, sweeten and season it according to taste, and, just before serving, stir into it an equal quantity of fresh porter. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. per pint. Sufficient, one pint for each, person. Cauliflower. — This favourite vegetable should be cut early, while the dew is still upon it. Choose those that are close and white, and of medium size. Whiteness is a sign of quality and freshness. Great care should bo taken that there are no caterpillars about the stalk, and, to ensure this, lay the vegetable with its head downwards in cold water and salt for an hour before boiling it; or, better still, in cold water mixed with a little vinegar. Trim away the outer leaves, and cut the stalk quite close. Cauliflowers are in season from the middle ot Juno till the middle of November.