lix PRINCIPLES ENTRIES—GARNISHING. Should the hash be venison, a little port wine and red currant jelly can be added to the gravy; and should it be mutton, one or two onions fried soft and of a nice brown colour, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, will be found an improve- ment. Next, take the dish, and, having thoroughly warmed it, pile the meat up into a pyramid shape in the centre of the dish, leaving the border of it as bare as possible. Pour the remainder of the gravy gently over the piled-up meat, and place round the edge, instead of toast sippets, the following garnish :—Stamp out with some cutters a few pieces of stale bread into the shape of hearts, and fry these pieces a nice bright golden-brown colour in some lard. Place these pieces near each other round the base of the pyramid, and jjlace one—choosing the best looking— on the top of the pyramid, with a small silver arrow stuck in it. Of coui'se this method of preparing the hash will give rather more trouble than the ordinaiy inartistic method, but then the difference in the appearance of the two dishes more than repays the trouble ; the one, in fact, is an entree, and the other a dish only suitable for an early dinner for cliildren, and which, if served in the kitchen, would too often—alas for human nature!—be more than half wasted. Really, hashed m\itton, especially the remains of a haunch or saddle, nicely served the way we have described, makes an entree that no one need be ashamed of sending to table. Small crayfish make one of the very nicest-looking garnishes. If the entree, therefore, was hashed venison, a small crayfish coidd be placed at the four corners of the dish, and a small one on the top of the pyramid. To ornament hashed mutton Avith crayfish would, I think, be going a little too far. We will now take another form of ornamenting entrees, viz., fried parsley. Probably cooks are more indebted to parsley than to anything else for orna- menting their dishes. The great secret of fried parsley is, first, it must be fresh- cut double parsley, and rather dark in colour; secondly, it must be perfectly dry before it is fried. Again, the fat must be boiling, and the greatest care exercised in draining the parsley so as not to break it more than possible. The best method of frying parsley is in a little wire basket in a small deep stewpan. This basket can be easily made at home out of two-pennywoi-th of wire, by a very little exercise of ingenuity. The advantage of the basket is that it can be fitted to the stew- pan, and the parsley can be lifted out bodily, thereby rendeiing the risk of breaking very small. Fried parsley can be used to ornament or garnish various kinds of patties, the dark green contrasting well with the light-brown pastry. Fried parsley should also be served with kromeskies, croquettes, fried sweetbreads, fried oysters, lobster cutlets, and a variety of other light entries. To continue the idea of entries made from remains of joints, we will next consider the number of nice dishes made from boiled turkey, boiled fowl, etc. Suppose, for instance, the dinner has consisted of one of these, with that 'very usual accompaniment—a boiled tongue. An exceedingly pretty-looking entree can be made as follows :—Cut off the best pieces of the white meat that has been left, and make a strong white stock with the bones, which may be thickened with a little white roux, and, if possible, two or three-pennyworth of cream. Warm up the meat in some of tliis sauce, and pile it up as before in a pyramid shape on the dish, and pour the remainder of the thick white sauce over it, the sauce bein^ made sufficiently thick to what is called " mask " the surface. Sprinkle over this white pyramid, sparingly and lightly, a little rather coarsely chopped dark-green paraley, and ornament the base of the pyramid as follows :—In cutting up a<Q