ALM AIiE not allow it to got cool. Probable coat, la. 4(1. Sufliciout for live or six persona. Ale or Porter Jelly.—Prepare calf's- feet jolly in the ordinary way, but instead of using wine take the samo proportion of porter or ale. Thougli thin ia sometimes recom- mended in illuoss, for ordinaiy j)urp()se.s wine is much to bo proforrod in the making of calf'a-feet jelly. Ale Posset.—Boil a pint of now milk and pour it over a slice of toasted broad. Stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, and a piece of butter tho size of a nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Mix these with a pint of hot ale, and boil for a few minutes. When the scum rises it is sufficiently ready. Time, five minutes to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Ale, To Mull.—Put half a pint of ale, a <5love, a little wliole ginger, a piece of butter ihe sizG of a small marble, and a tea-spoonful of sugar, into a saucepan, and bring it to boiling point. Beat two eggs with a table-spoonful of cold ale, and pour the boiling ale into them, and then into a large jug. Pass the whole from one jug into another for some minutes, and at a good height. Ketum it to the saucepan and heat it again, but do not allow it to boil. Time, a quarter of an hom\ Probable coat, 6d. Suffi- cient for one person. Ale, with. Cheese.—Crumble about a quarter of a pound of Cheshire or Gloucester cheese, and put it into a saucepan with a small tea-spoonful of sugar, another of mustard, and enough ale to cover it. Let it remain on the fire until thoroughly melted, stirring all the -time, and then add the yolk of an egg. Serve it on a very hot dish, and stick all over it little sippets of toasted bread, or pieces of pulled bread. Time to prepare, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. AUemand Sauce.—Put into a saucepan one pint of white stock, with a little salt, six mushrooms, a thin strip of lemon-peel, and a little parsley. Let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and allow it to simmer slowly for half an hoiu" or more. Thicken it with a little flour, let it boil for a few minutes, and strain. Add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and replace it on the fire. Stir it constantly, and make it thoroughly hot; but it must not boil up again, or the sauce will be spoiled. When oft the fire, stir a little butter into it, i'.nd the juice of half a lemon. Probable cost, Is. fcjufficient for a pint of sauce. Allemand Sauce (another way). —Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter. When melted, stir in briskly a dessert-spoonful of flour and half a pint of white stock, or failing that, water. Add a little lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, a small lump of sugar, an onion, and a little nutmeg. Let all simmer by tho side of tho fire for a little while, then strain. Mix witli tho sauce half a cupful of milk or cream, and the yolk of one egg; put it on tho fire once more, and stir it briskly till it thickens. It must not boil. Add a little lemon- juice. Time, foiiy minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three-quarters of a pint of aauce. Allspice, Essence of.—Pour two draclima of oil of pimento very gradually into three ounces of spirits of wine, and let it stand for a few minutes. Put it into a bottle and cork it closely. Prolmblo cost, la. 8d. Five or six drops will flavour a pint. Allspice, Tincture of.—Put two ounces f of powdered allspice into a bottle with one pint of brandy. Let it aoak for a fortnight, shaking it up every three days. Pour it into another bottle, leaving the sediment, and cork it closely. Half a tea-spoonful will flavour a pint. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 4d. Almack's Preserve.—Take two dozen plums, one dozen apples, and one dozen pears: spUt the plums and take the atones out, pare and core the apples and pears, and place all the fruit in alternate layers in a deep jar. Place the jar in the oven, in a shallow dish containing boiling water. When the fruit is well mixed, put a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, and pour the whole into a preserving-pan. Stir constantly, and boil for forty minutes or more, or until the mixture thickens. Pour it out, and cut into slices ready for use. Time, four to six hours. Probable cost, 3s. Seasonable from August to October. Almond Cake, Plain.— Blanch and pound in a mortar three ounces of sweet almonds and seven or eight bitter almonds. Rub the rind of a lemon upon four ounces of loaf sugar, and pound this with the almonds. Add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Work in a quarter of a pound of fine flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a sohd froth. Put into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Almond Cake, Rich. — Blanch and pound in a mortar very thoroughly eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds. Add six table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar and eight eggs well beaten. Dry before the fire six table- spoonfuls of fine flour, and work this in with the rest. The rind of a lemon finely-grated wiU be an improvement. Beat a quarter of a pound of sweet butter to a cream, and add the mixture gradually. Great care should be taken to keep on beating lightly during the whole process of making the cake, or it will be heavy. Put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, allowing room for the cake to rise, and bake it in a quick oven, but do not allow it to bum. Time to bake, about an hour. Piobable cost, 2s. Almond Cakes (or Macaroons).— Blanch and pound six ounces of swc(^t ahnonds with one pound of sifted sugar. Add the whites of six eggs thoroughly whisked, two ounces of ground rice, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Beat all well together, and drop the mixture in smaU quantities on wafer-paper, lea^-ing a little distance between each. Bake in a mo- derate oven. It is best to bake one little cake first, and if it is at aU heavy to add a little more