( 483 ) ORA place. They will be ready for use in six or eight days. Probable cost of oranges, Is. per dozen. Oranges Preserved Whole, Carred. —The rind of oi-anyos preserved as above, in- stead of being scraped olf may be carved rather deeply in leaves, intersected lines, or any fanciful devices, and then emptied, soaked in water for three or four days, and boiled in syrup. They should be filled with as well as boiled in, the syrup, and it is best to boil this every day for four days, and pour it hot upon the oranges. Time, eight days to prepare. Probable cost of oranges. Is. per dozen. Orgeat {nee Almond SjTup, or Orgeat). Orgeat Ice Cream.—Take one ounce of sweet abnonds and two or three bitter ones. Blanch and pound them in a mortar with a little orange-liower water to prevent them oOing. Add gradually a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the weU-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and a pint of cream. Put the mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it without ceasing until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, stir it again until it is cold, then freeze in the usual way. Time, five or six minutes to stir the mixture over the fire. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of ice cream. Orgeat or Almond Milk (a refreshing drink).—Take two ounces of Jordan almonds and four bitter ones. Blanch them, put them into a mortar with two ounces of powdered sugar, and pound them to a smooth paste, and whilst pounding them keep dropping half a tea-spoonful of cold water on them to pre- vent oiling. Put them into a basin, and pour gradually over them a pint of cold water, stir them for three or four minutes, cover them over, and leave them in a cool place for two hours. Strain the liquid thi-ough a napkin into a glass jug, and put it, if possible, in ice iintil wanted for use. Before serving, mix with the almond milk an equal proportion of cold water. Orgeat should be made the day it is used, as it will not keep sweet long. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for a pint of orgeat. Orgeat, Syrup of (for flavouring sauces, cream, &c.).—Take half a pound of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter ones. Blanch and pound them in a mortar, and whilst pound- ing keep adding a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent oiling. Stir in by degrees two pints of cold water; add two pounds and a half of powdered and sifted sugar, two ounces of orange-flower water, and two drachms of the essence of lemon. Put the mixture into a warm place for five or six hours, then boil for ten minutes. Strain through a calico bag, and press out all the milk of the almonds. If the syrup is not suffi- ciently thick, it should be boiled again on the following day. When it is cold, bottle for use. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two quarts of orgeat. Orleans Plum.—This is a handsome frait which takes its namo from a district in France. It is not so good as it looks, but is more culti- vated than even the greengage, which is both the most agreeable and the most wholesome of all the plums. Orleans Plums (to bottle for winter use). Have in readiness some perfectly clean and dry wide-necked bottles. Pick the fruit, which must bo sound and freshly gathered, rub it well with a soft cloth, taking care not to injure the skins, and put it into the bottles; fiU these up with a syrup made by boiling three-quarters of a pound of sugar with half a pint of water for ten minutes. Cork the bottles closely, tie a piece of moistened bladder over them, and put them in a large pan of water over a gentle fire. Let the water boil for a quarter of an hour, then lift the pan off the fire, leaving the bottles in the pan until the water is cold. Store the fruit in a dry place. Probable cost of plums, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Orleans Plums (to bottle for winter use), another way. — Prepare the plums as in the last recipe. Weigh them, and put them in perfectly dry bottles or jars with half a pound of sugar to each pound Oi plums. Put the sugar in after the fruit, and do not shake it down. Tie moistened bladder over the tops of the bottles, and put them up to their necks in a saucepan of cold water. Bring them slowly to the boil, then let them simmer gently for three hours. Lift the pan from the fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is cold. Store in a dry place. Probable cost of plums, 3d. to 6d. per pouud. Orleans Pudding.—Put one ounce of gelatine into a basin with a quarter of a pint of cold water, and let it soak for half an hour. Whisk the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, and add very gradually a pint of hot milk or cream, and six ounces of powdered sugar. Put the custard into an enamelled saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir until it begins to thicken ; add the soaked gelatine, and stir until the gela- tine is dissolved. Put half an ounce of picked currants, half an ounce of stoned raisins, and an ounce of finely-minced candied peel into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of brandy, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Oil a plain round mould; spread a thin layer of cream at the bottom, say about half an inch in thickness ; strew a little of the fruit upon this, and let it set, and then a layer of Naples biscuits finely crumbled, and a layer of crushed ratafias. Repeat until the mould is full. Put the pudding into a cool place until it is firmly set; if possible, place it in ice. Turn it on a dish, and garnish with dried cherries and strips of candied peel. Time, ten minutes to thicken the pudding. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ortolans.—These birds, though small and very rare, are much esteemed by epicures for the deUcacy of their flesh. They are in season from November to February. Ortolans, Potted.—Cut off the necks, heads, and legs of some ortolans, and season them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Prepare some chicken forcemeat—the quantity to be regulated by the size of the potting-pan and the number of ortolans. Spread a layer