Ix oassell's cookery. turkey, stamp out some tlim pieces of white meat into the shape of cocks'-combs, or some such pattern, with a crimped edge. Also cut some thin slices of the red tongue, iuxd stamp these out in the same pattern. Wai-m uj) these slices of white meat and rod tongue in a little liot clear stock, and place these slices round the dish at the base of the pyi-amid of meat, alternately red and white, having, of coui se, the crimped edge outwards. A single small crayfish on the top of the pyramid, or a little sprig of parsley, will complete the dish. This entree, it should be borne in mind, is, in addition to being a really handsome dish, a most economical one, for, with the exception of the cream—which is not absolutely necessary—eveiything is used up, the bones forming sauce instead of being left on the plates and given to the dog in the ordiuaiy maimer. Of course tliis dish will be vastly improved by the addition of button-mushrooms and slices of truffle. When truffles are used, the alternate slices of black, red, and white look extremely nice ; or should the truffle be in small quantities, little pieces can be reserved to dot the stamped frill of the white meat— a small piece in the centre of each round. In all dishes that have vegetables served with them, much may be done to impi-ove their appearance by having some at least of the vegetables stamped of a nice pattern; even in large dishes that do not come under the heading of entrees, boiled turnips and boiled carrots always look better if roughly shaped like peai-s, and so cut that they will stand upright. When placed alternately round a boiled leg or neck of mutton, over which some caper sauce has been poui*ed, the genei'al appearance of the dish is far superior to what it would be if simply cut carrots and turnips are placed on hap-hazard. To teach even the elementary principles of making dishes look elegant is, we fear, a task beyond the power of mere words. Some persons have naturally taste, and others have not. The cook who will go out on Sunday afternoon in a pink bonnet with a blue parasol will never learn so to arrange colours in garnisliing a dish as to really attract the eye. We will, however, give a few hints to those— and we are glad to say they ai'e many—who seem to possess the power of using garnishes when they have them. First, much may be done with artificial flowers cut from tvuTiips or beetroots. For instance, a tongue glazed, with a paper frill round the root, and a nicely-cut flower made from a turnip, and just tinged with cochineal in imitation of a camelia, placed on the top, always looks an exceedingly handsome dish. The turnip flower should be stuck on to a small stick of wood, and a couple of bay-leaves tied on to the stick with it. Tliis method of ornamenting dishes, though old-fashioned, is very effective. For hot entrees and hot dishes of every description the following garnishes ^vill be found especially useful:—Fried croutons of bread cut into the shape of hearts or stars, and fried a golden-brown colour; button-mushrooms glazed, i.e., small button- mushrooms that have had some bright glaze brushed over them; pieces of white chicken or turkey placed alternately with pieces of red tongue, each piece being cut into some pattern with a cutter ; stamped pieces of vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, pai-snip, artichoke, or even the root of a French artichoke; fried pai-sley or fresh parsley; whole tniffles or tmffles cut in slices or patterns; cocks'-combs, plovers' eggs, small cray- fish, prawns, stoned olives ; occasionally, even, small slices of gherkins or the skin of a chilli. For instance, take the case of a filleted sole k la raaitre d'hotel. Place the slices of rolled grilled sole on end in a silver dish, pour a thick white sauce over them, made by boiling the bones of the sole in a little milk, thickening it with a little white