COD COD ( 144 ) down the bono and on the thick part as soon as the lish comes into thu huuso. Cod (a la Bcchainol).—Romovo tho flosh from tho boues, und break it into convouioiit pieces. Put a cupful of white stock nicoly seasoued, and a cupful of new milk, into a saucepan ; tltickon it with a little floui- and butter, put tlio pieces of fish into it, and lot them remain until quite hot, but the sauce must not be allowed to boil. Servo with tho sauce and fish in tho middle of a hot dish, and place a border of mashed potatoes round it. Tune, twenty minutes. Cod (a la Cremo).—Boil a slice of cod, and, while it is warm, break it into convenient-sized pieces, or tho remains of cold cod may be used instead. Put a pint of now milk into a sauce- pan, with a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of i Siilt, and half the rind of a small lemon. Let it stand by the side of the fire till tho milk is hot and the flavour of the lemon and mace is drawn ' out; then strain it into a basin. Put a piece of butter the size of a large egg into a sauce- pan, and, when it is melted, mix two table- spoonfuls of flour very smoothly with it; add the milk gradually till the sauce is of the proper thickness; let it boil a few minutes, then put in the pieces of fish. Let them heat through. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the fish, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Cod (a I'Espagnole).—Take one or two slices of cod about an inch in thickness, or the tail end of the cod, romovo the skin, dredge a little flmii- DVi'V tlie fish, and fry it in hot butter or lard until nicely browned. Take it out gently with an egg-slice, di-aiu it, and put it into a saucepan with as much good brown gravy, boiling, as will swim it. Add a little salt and cayenne, the juice of half a lemon, a lump of sugar, an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a tumblerful of port. Simmer very softly till the fish is sufficiently cooked; take it out, place it on a hot dish, strain the gravy, thickening it with a little browned butter, and serve unmediately. Claret may be substi- tuted for the port, if preferred, or the wine may be omitted altogether, and the sauce flavoured -with ketchup. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost of cod, when in full season, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, two slices for four jiersons. Cod (a la Fran(jaise).—Take two slices of cod about an inch and a half in thickness. Put them in salt and water for a few minutes, then drain, and fry them in hot butter till they are half cooked. Cover them with good stock, stew them until tender, then place them on a hot dish, and pour over them a pint of sauce, made as follows:—Put a breakfast-cupful of nicely- flavoured stock into a saucepan with half the quantity of thick cream; let it boil, draw it back, and when cool, add salt and pepper, half a tea-spoonful of lemon, half a tea-spoonful of gai-lic \'inegar, and half a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar. Time, altogether, from forty to fifty minutes. Probable cost of cod, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cod (a la Slaitro d'Hotel).—Boil two slices of cod, as in the last recipe. Wash some fresh green par.sley in two or thieo waters. Chop it small, and knead two table-spoonfuls of it with two ounces of fresh butter, au ounce of flour, a little salt and cayenne, and tho juice of half a lemon. Put this mixture into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is on the point of boiling. Add anotlier half ounce of butter, and when it is melted pour tho sauce over tlie fish and serve. Tho sauce may bo made by stirring a table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley in a pint of good melted butter. Mix well, season with salt and cayenne, add the juice of half ii lemon, and, j ust before serving, draw tho sauce bpck, and add, very gradually, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Time, altogether, about forty minutes. Probable cost, about 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cod (a la Proven^alo), Cold Meat Cookery. —Remove the skin and bones from the remains of cold cod, and break it into convenient-sized pieces. Mince finely equal quantities of sliallot, young onions, or chives, parsley, and lemon- peel. Add a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and mix all well together with two table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Place this in a pie-dish, put in the pieces of fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot, with lemon- juice squeezed over the fish. Time, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Cod (au Gratin).—Take the remains of cold cod, remove the skin and bones, and break the flesh into convenient-sized pieces. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly; place in it alternate layers of cod and oyster sauce until the dish is full, flavouring each layer with salt, cayenne, and a little powdered mace. Strew fine bread- crumbs over all, and put two or three little l^ieces of butter here and there. Bake for about half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d., exclusive of the cold cod and oyster sauce. Sufficient, a small dishful for two or three persons. Cod, Baked.—Take a piece weighing about three pounds out of the middle of a large cod. Make a stuffing with the sound boiled for twenty minutes, chopped small, and mixed with two ounces of grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thjTne, a small tea-spoonfiil of salt, half the quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and *■ the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Bind all together -with a little of the white of the egg. Put this forcemeat inside the fish, and sew it up. Place the fish in a baking-dish, and pour over it enough thin flour and water to fill the dish three parts. Put in a dozen oysters, also a liUlo scraped horse-radish, and a little salt and pepper. Laj"- three or four lumps of butt«r on the fish, put it in the oven, and baste it fre- quently. ^Vhen it is sufficiently cooked, lay the cod on a hot dish, and garnish it with the oysters. Put the gravy into a saucepan,'add to it a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and another of vinegar; boil it, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake, about one hour. Pro- bable cost of cod, when plentiful, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons.