( 426 ) MIB Buffering it to become oily, and add this, with one more glassful of brandy, and tie securely down. It should not be kept less than six weeks before it is used for the pics. Mince Pies, Egg (nee Egg Mince Pies). Minnow.—This is a diminutive fish whose homo is in rivers, brooks, and ainals. It is best known, perhaps, as affording amusement to juvenile anglers. The flavour of the minnow is good, and when a suthcient number can be procured by a casting-net, they make an excellent fry, not unlike whitebait, but rather luscious and clojTng. In Izaak Walton's time, a dish called minnow tansies was made from them, now quite out of use. The minnows were gutted, well washed in salt and water, and their heads and tails being cut off, they were put, with yolks of eggs, well beat, with cowslips and primrose-flowers, and a little tansy, shred small, and fried in butter. The sauce was butter, vinegar, or verjuice and sugar. Mint is an extensive and well-known genus of plants, with the culture and propagation of which mostly aU are famihar. Mint sauce is generally made of spear mint, which is also used for flavouiing soups, &c. Mint Julep. —A sprig of young green mint is put into a tumbler with brandy to about one-third, or a glassful of gin and another of sherry, a large tea-spoonfiil of powdered sugar, some orange-peel, without any of the white inner skin, the juice of th& orange, and as much powdered ice as will fill the tumbler. Pour these ingredients into another tumbler, and back again, to mix well. Add a slice of pine-apple, or rub the tumbler with a piece of it, and the julep is ready. Drink through a straw. Mint Julep, American.—Put a sprig of green mint, a heaped tea-spoonful of sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, a glassful of gin, and a glassful of sheiTy, into a large glass jug. Fill it up with powdered ice, and pour quickly from one jug into another for a minute or two. Rub the edge of the tumbler with a pine-apple, if it is at hand. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the gin and sherry. It will be sufficient for one person. Mint Julep, American (another way). —Put into a tumbler a dozen leaves of mint, young and fresh, with a tea-spoonful of sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of brandy or whiskey. Put some pounded ice into another tumbler, and pour from one tumbler to another, until the whole is thoroughly flavoured with the mint. A little pine-apple juice is an improve- ment. Drink through a rood. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one person. Mint Sauce.—"Wash and free from grit three tal^le-spoonfuls of young green mint, chop exceedingly fine, and put it in a sauce-tureen, with two table-spoonfuls of powdered lump sugar and a tea-cupful of vinegar. Mint sauce should be allowed to stand an hour or two before being used. Some persons prefer moist sugar for sweetening: in that ciise so much A«rould not be required. Probable cost, 3d. O* Mint Sauce (another way).—Spearmint (the true species, both for this and to boil with green peas) is a plant which becomes a weed in any but the driest and sandiest soils. In ordinary garden- ground, it soon shows its encroaching disposi- tion. It may bo obtained early, by covering it with a cloche, bell-glass, or hand-light; by putting a tuft into a frame or hot-bed; or by growing it in-doors, in a pot, or mignonette- box. Wash the sprigs of mint, to clear them from dust or rain-splashings; let them dry on a napkin; strip oft' the leaves, and chop them fine on a chopping-board. Fill your sauce- boat one-quarter full of chopped mint; pour over the mint vinegar equal to half the con- tents of the sauceboat. Drop in a few Iximps of sugar, and let it stand at least an hour before serving, to extract the flavour of the herb. Before sending it to table, stir up all together. Llint sauce will keep for a time, bottled, and be just as good, if not better, than it was the first day. Mint Sauce (another way).—See Lamb, Sauce for. Mint Sauce, Green {see Green Mint Sauce). Mint, Season for Drying.—There are two kinds of mint—speaiiuint, used for culinary purpovses, and peppermint, for medicinal uses or distilling. In the summer, dming the months of June and July, the spearmint should be gathered on a drj- day, dried gradually in a rather cool oven or in the shade, powdered, sifted, and bottled for -^vinter use. Mint Vinegar, Green (see Green Mint Vinegar). Minuten neisch.—Cut from the tender ^uicy part of a leg of veal a pound and a half, m slices exceedingly thin, and from three to four inches square. Season each slice with salt and pepper, lay them in a deep dish, and pom* over them enough vnne to coA'er. When thej have steeped and imbibed the wine, dust them with flour on both sides, and put them into a stewpan of dissolved butter; add enough white stock to reach to half an inch above the meat. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and simmer with the lid closed. The meat should not boU hard, or it will be spoiled. Time, three hours to steep in wine; five minutes to sim- mer after it has come to the boil. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mirepoix.—A flavom-ing for made dishes, which should be always at hand and ready for use. The following extract of meat and vege- tables is to be recommended:—Brown in a stew- pan, with three ounces of butter, a pound of uncooked ham, and half that weight of fat bacon, cut into small pieces. Slice two carrots, two onions, and two shallots, and add them, with a couple of bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, or the roots sliced, and a sprig or two of thyme. When slightly coloured, pour in two quarts of good veal stock, and a bottle of light wine. Spice, pounded mace, and cloves may be added, but a dozen peppercorns, bruised, are indis- pensable. Boil, strain, and use this flavouring . when wanted. Time, two hours to simmer.