LAM ( 357 ) LAM strength of the fire often cause a difference. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lamb, Fore Quarter of, To Boast (another way).—Prepare the joint as m the last recipe. Skewer three or four slices of bacon securely to the outer side, brush tlu-ee ounces of clarified butter over the inner part, and strew upon it a thick covering of finely- grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a httle finely-minced parsley. Cover FOKE QTJARTER OF LAMB. the whole with a large sheet of buttered paper, and lay the lamb down to a clear even fire. When nearly done, remove the paper and bacon, baste the meat with yolk of egg mixed with the gravy, throw some more bread-cnnnbs over it, and let it remain until nicely browned^ Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send mint sauce to table with it. Time, from two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Lamb, Fricandeau of.—Take a brea^st of lamb, and lard it in the usual way {see Lard, To), with three strips of fat bacon. Put it into a ste.'wpan with two bunches of parsley, a small bunch of thyme and marjoram, a small bunch of green onions, six or eight pepper- corns, a bay-leaf, one or two slices of fat bacon, and as much boUing water as will barely cover the meat. Simmer gently for half an hour; then take it out, and boil the gravy quickly until it is reduced to one half. Put the meat back again, .skim the fat carefully from the liquid, and simmer gently once more until a glaze is seen on the top of the moat. Drain it upon a dish, and keep it hot until the sauce is reduced to a glaze. Brush the lamb over with two or three coats of this, and serve it upon dressed vege- tables, such as sorrel, spinach, or green peas. Time, from three to four hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Fricassee of.—Take a breast of lamb, cut it into small pieces about an inch and a half square, season these with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a stewpan with an onion stuck with four cloves, a sprig of basil, two bay-leaves, and three ounces of fresh butter. Cover the saucopfin closely, and let it steam gently for half an hour, shaking it occasionally to prevent sticking. Pour over it a pint of boiling water, cover closely once more, and iimmcr for an hour. At the end of that time strain the Kiuce, and thicken it with a table- spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little water; stir into it three dessert-spoonfuls of chopped capers; boil all two or three minutes longer, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. Time to stew about an hour and a half. Probable cost lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or foux persons. Lamb, Hind Quarter of.—Take a hind-quarter of lamb, saw o£E the knuckle- bone, and wrap the joint in oiled or buttered paper. Put the roasting hook through the shank end, and place the joint before a clear fire. Baste it frequently with good dripping. Twenty minutes before it is taken down dredge a little flour over it, brown it nicely, and place it on a hot dish, with two or three table- spoonfuls of good gravy with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce should always accom- pany roast lamb. A cut lemon should be sent to table with this joint, and an empty dish upon which the carver may place the leg when it is severed from the loin. Time, two honrs and a half, or twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes over. Young white meat must be thoroughly cooked. Probable cost, 1 Id. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lamb, Larded.—Lard the surface of a leg of lamb with thin slices of fat bacon {see Lard, To), cover it with buttered paper, and put it down to an even fire. Half an hour before it is done enough take off the paper, and sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace over it, and let it remain until it is brightly broAvned. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send mint sauce to table. Time to roast, twenty minutes for each pound, and twenty minutes over. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Lamb, Leg of (a la Venison). A German recipe.—Take six cloves, six jmiipcr-berries, and a small tea-spoonful of pepper. Pound these ingredients to a fine powder, then mix with them the following herbs, finely minced:— Four leaves of tarragon, a sprig of green rosemar)', and a sprig of marjoram; add four shallots," and rub the whole into a well-hung leg of lamb weighing about five pounds. Lay the meat in a deep dish, pour over it four table- spoonfids of claret mixed with four table-spoon- fuls of vinegar. Let it lie in this pickle for three days, and turn it every day. At the end of that time wipe it with a dry cloth to free it from the herbs, sprinkle some salt over it, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste the meat liberally, while cooking, with the liquid in which it was soaked, boiled up with half a pint of good stock. Unless this is attended to it will be very dry. Ten mioutes before the meat is taken up, pour a cupful of new milk into the pan, and rub it well into the brown crusting which will have formed at the side of the pan, and when the gravy boils pour it boil- ing-hot upon the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Pour a little of this sauce into the dish, and serve the rest in a tureen. Garnish with slices