GEB ( 249 ) GEB. near tho fire for half aa hour, to draw out the fluvom- of the lemon, then bring it quickly to a boil, sti-ain it, let it gl■o^v cold, and add the jmce of the lemon, with three fciblo-spooniuls of brandy. Poui- tho cream qiuckly backwards and forwards from one jug to another, from a good height, for twenty minutes, then put it into the dish in which it is to be served. Pi^bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy, bufficient for neaily thi-ee-quarters of a pint of cream. German Croustades—Cut some stale crumb of bread orroU into slices three-quarters of an inch thick, and stamp them in rounds about three inches-in diameter. Pour a little clarified butter over the rounds, and let them soak in it until soft- Cut out of the centre of each a smaller cii'cle, about one inch and a half in diameter, and be careful to leave the outer ring unbroken. Fry the croustades in hot butter, untU lightly browned; fill them with a nicely-flavoured mince, made of the re- mains of cold meat or poultry ; cover this with finely-grated bread-crumbs, fried in butter {see Crumbs, Fried), and brown them as quickly as possible with a salamander. Time, five or sis minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3d. per dozen, exclusive of the mince. German Dumplings, or Dampfnu- deln.—J^Iix two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, or one ounce of Gei-man yeast, with a cupful of lukewarm nulk. Add one table-spoonful of sifted sugar, two eggs, well beaten, and a qua,rter of a pound of butter, melted, but not oiled. When these ingredients are well-mixed, add one •pound of flour, and beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and light, and drops from the spoon. Cover the bowl which con- tains it with a cloth, and put it in a warm place for half an hour or more, to rise. Turn it out on a well-floured pastry-board, divide it into small balls about the size of an egg, and let them i-ise a few minutes longer. Butter the bottom of a shallow tin rather thickly. Strew a little powdered sugar over it, and put in milk an inch deep. Let this boil. Place the dumplings in the pan as gently as possible, or roll them in ofE an egg-sUce, and leave a little distance between each. Put on the cover, place the pan in the oven, and bake until the milk is boiled away, and tho dumplings have acquired a nice brown crust. Put them on a hot dish, and send stewed fruit, sweet sauce, or custard to table with them. They may be put into the saucepan with the milk cold, and placed by the side of the fire until they have risen to double their original size, then be put into the oven to brown. Time, three-quarters of an hour for the dumplings to bro^vn; or a quarter of an hour for them to rise, and ten minutes to bake. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for one dozen dumplings. German Fritters, or Brioche Frit- ters.—Take as much brioche paste {see Brioche Paste) as maybe required. Roll it out till it is a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp it into small rounds with the top of a wine glass, put a small piece of jam on half of these, moisten the edges, and cover each one with a similar round to that on which the jam is laid. Press the two pieces of paste securely together, lay the wine-glass or cutter once more over them, to trim them evenly; then put the fritters gently and carefully into a pun of hot fat, and fry them until lightly browned. When done, drain them from the fat, and serve as hot as possible. They should be piled on a hot napkin, witli a little sifted sugar and powdered cinnamon strewn over them. Brioche paste is even better served thus than in the ordinary way. German Fritters (another sort).— Take seven or eight large sound baking apples, pare them, and scoop out the core without breaking the apples. Cut them into round slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and simmer them in a saucepan, with a cupful of brandy, the thin lind of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of sugar, till they are tender, but unbroken. Drain them, dip them into a little flour, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and strain a little finely- sifted sugar over them. Time, altogether, half an horn-. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. German Frying Batter.—Thoroughly mix six ounces of flour with one ' ounce of melted, but not oiled, butter, the yolk of an egg, and two table-spoonfuls of water. Add a pinch of salt, and, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of mild ale. Beat the ingredieiits with a wooden spoon till they are smoothly blended. This batter is better for being maao two or three hours before it is wanted. Just before using, add the white of an egg, beaten to a solid froth. Time, twenty minutes to pre- pare. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient for about one and a half or two pounds of meat or vegetables. German Konglauffe.—Work ten ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it a quarter of a pomd of loaf sugar, which has been well-rubbed on a large lemon, and after- wards pounded, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a nutmeg, grated, four ounces of fine floui-, and two eggs, weU. beaten. Work these ingredients together for a few minutes, then add thi-ee- quarters of a pound more flour, two whole eggs, and the yolks of four. These should be put in gradually. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of German yeast in a small tea-cupful of luke- warm milk. Work this in with the rest. Butter a quart moidd. Blanch and slice four oimces of sweet almonds, put them in neat layers round the inside of the mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the konglauffe is sufficiently baked, turn it out, strew a little powdered cinnamon over it, and return it to the oven for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for a quart mould. German Onion Beef.—Put four or five pounds of the thin end of the flank of beef into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover it, one dessert-spoonful of salt and a little muslin bag containing one dozen bruised cloves, two dozen peppercorns, one bay-leaf, and the thin rind of a large lemon. Simmer gently for forty minutes. Add eight large onions, cut into slices, and