(172) CTTB 1 CTTB one pint of milk. Put a little lard or dripping into a frjang-pan. When quite hot, atir a hand- ful of picked and dried currants into the batter, and drop it into the pan in fritters about the size of a penny bun. Tliree or four may bo cooked together, but they must be kept apart. When lightly browned on one side turn them over on the other. Drain the fat from them, and serve them on a hot napkin. Time to fry, a few minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for four persons. Currant Fritters without Eggs.— Mix a pint of mild ale Nvith as much nour as will make a thick batter. Take care that it is perfectly smooth and free from lumps. Add a few currants, a little sugar and grated nutmeg, and fry as in the last recipe. Sufficient for four persons. Time to fry, a few minutes. Probable cost, 5d. Currant Jam, Black. — Take equal weights of pounded lump sugar and picked fruit. Put the fruit in the preserving-pan, and pour into it two table-spoonfuls of water for every pound of fruit; boil and skim. When the fruit has boiled for twenty minutes, add the sugar. Stir the fruit well to keep it from burning, and boil it half an hour longer, counting from the time when it simmers equally all over. Put a spoonful of the juice and fruit to cool upon a plate. If the juice runs off, the jam must be boiled longer, if it jellies it is done enough. The jam wiU not keep unless the fruit was gathered when dry. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pound of fruit with sugar for a pound of jam (see also the close of the recipe Currant Jelly, Black). Currant Jam, Black (superior).—Boil two pounds of black currants imtil the jmce flows freely. Put the fruit through a sieve, leave behind whatever vrill not pass through. Boil the pulp for five or six minutes, Hft it from the fire, and stir into it a pound of powdered loaf sugar. Boil it again until it thickens, and pour it into jars for use. Time to boil the pulp with the sugar, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, currants 4d. per quart. Currant Jam, Red and WMte.— Take some fine ripe red or white currants ; let them be gathered on a dry day, and be sure that they are fresh and free from dirt. Strip them from the stalks, and weigh them with an equal weight of finely - pounded loaf sugar. Let them remain on the fire exactly nine minutes after boiling. Pour the jam into jars, and cover it with brandied papers, and put over these tissue-paper dipped in gum. There is no economy in using a smaller proportion of sugar, as the jam requires to boil so much longer that the quantity is reduced sufficiently to make the difference. Probable cost, when plentiful, 4d. per quart. Sufficient, one pint of fruit for one pound and a quarter of jam. Currant JeUy, Black.—Draw the juice from some fine ripe black currants. In order to do this, put them, as wo have told already {see Currant Custard), into an earthen jar, cover this closely, put it in a pan of cold water, and boil the miit gently vmtil the juice is ex- pressed. Strain it through a jelly-bag, but do not press it, and boil it for a minute or two. Add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint (jf juice, and boil ten minutes longer. If the jelly becomes firm when a spoonful in put on a plate it is boiled enough; if not, boil a Little longer. Put it into small jars and cover closely, first with brandied papers and afterwards with gummed tissue-paper. If a larger proportion of sugar were added it would jelly sooner, but it would then be too luficious to be agreeable in sickness. If the juice is not pressed from the currants, the latter, with the addition of a little sugar and water, will boil into a jam fit to be used for kitchen and nursery puadings, but it will not keep long. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. About one pint of juice may be obtained from two quarts of fruit. Currant Jelly, Red.—Red currant jelly may be made in the same way as black, re- membering only that one pound of sugar will be required for one pint of juice. The fiavour may be improved by the addition of a few raspberries, and both the flavour and colour if one pint of white currants is used with three of red. When straining the juice the fruit must not be pressed or the jelly will not be clear. Some prefer to sweeten red currant jelly by pounding loaf sugar very finely, and making it quite hot in the oven, taking care that it is not in the least dis- coloured ; then mixing it with the juice which, though hot, must not boil until the sugar is dissolved. Be careful to use either a silver or a wooden spoon in making jelly; with any other the flavour will be spoilt. The jelly may be made very stiff by adding half an ounce of isinglass to each pint of juice. The isinglass should be dissolved in a little of the juice, and put in with the sugar. Time, about two hours to express the juice. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Three pints of fruit will pro- bably yield one pint of juice. Currant Jelly, White-—This jelly may be made in the same way as the last, or the fruit may be bruised and the juice strained .through a jelly-bag. It must not be pressed, or the jeUy will not be clear. The fruit which is left in the bag may be boiled into nursery preserve. Allow one pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Put both into a preserying-pan, stir the liquid imtil it boils, and boil for six minutes. When pounded sugar is used for jellies it should be prepared at home. That which is bought at the shops may be adulte- rated, and then the colour of the jelly would be spoilt. If it is wished to have the jelly very stiff, half an ounce of isinglass may be used for every pint of juice. It should be dissolved in a little of the juice and put in with the sugar. Three pints of currants will probably yield one pint of juice. Probable cost of cur- rants, 6d. per quart. Currant Liquor.—Put black-currants with an equal quantity of leaves mto a jar, and cover them with rectified spirits of wine. Let them soak for seven or eight weeks, then strain the liquid through a linen bag, and mix with it a syrup made by boiling one pound of sugar