OYS PAL ( 499 ) inch deep, and an inch from the edge all round, brush it over with yolk of egg, place it on a baking-tin, and bake" it in a hot oven until it is well risen, and lightly browned. Draw it out, and lift olf the cover with the point of a sharp knife, scoop out the soft paste from the inside, and return the vol-au-vent to the oven for a few minutes to dry. When ready for serving, fiU the centre ^vith oysters prepared as follows :— Beard two dozen oysters, and put the beards and the liquor into a saucepan with an inch of lemon-rind, a small pinch of salt, half an inch of nuice, half a grsiin of cayenne, and the tenth part of a nutmeg, grated. Boil quickly for six or eight minutes, then strain the gravy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with two ounces of butter. Add a quai-ter of a pint of cream and the oyster liquor, and simmer gently until the sauce is smooth and thick. Put in the oysters, simmer two or thi'ee seconds only, and serve. Time, about half an hour to bake the vol-au-vent; twenty minutes to prepare the oysters. Probable cost, 58. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Oysters, Wholesomeness of.—"Re- specting the wholesomeness of this well-known shell-fish," says Dr. Spencer Thomson, "much difference of opinion exists among medical men; nutritious, especially when uncooked, they certainly are, but then- digestibility in all probabilitj' depends greatly upon the person by whom they are eaten. Some, whose stomachs generally require much consideration, can eat oysteri, in moderation, with impunity." Dr. Paris, however, condemns them for invalids. Oysters have, though rarely, like other shell- fish, caused symptoms of irritant poisoning. Oysters with Leg of Mutton.—Make half a dozen deep incisions in the thick part of a well-kept leg of mutton, and fill them with a forcemeat made as follows :—Boil a dozen fresh oysters in their own liquor for two minutes, beard them, and mince them, finely with a shallot, a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley-leaves, and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Tie the mutton in a cloth, put it into boiling water, let it boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently until it is done enough. Serve with oyster sauce. Time to simmer, two and a half to three hours, ac- cording to size. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 6d. to 3s. per dozen. P Padeia Cake.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it four ounces of ground rice, four ounces of flour, two ounces of currants, washed, picked, and dried, two ounces of muscatel raisins, chopped small, a small pinch of salt, two ounces of crushed loaf sugar, and a quarter ot a nutmeg, grated. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly blended, make them into a dough, by stirring into them half a pint of luke-wamn milk, in which has been dissolved a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and which has been flavoured by the addition of three or four drops of the essence of almonds. Lino a mould with well-oiled paper, three-parts fill it with the dough, and bake in a moderate oven. Time, about one hour to bake the cake. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for a small mould. Pain d'Ananas {see Pine-apple Pudding, or Pain d'Ananas). Palace Sweetmeats (for Dessert).— Take any quantity of freshly-candied peel or citron, from which the sugar has been carefully removed, and cut it into broad strips. Put these on a fork or silver skewer, and dip them into some liquid barley-sugar, then place them on a dish, which has been well oiled, being careful that the pieces do not touch, and let them remain until cold. These sweetmeats are easily made, and are much liked. They should be stored in a tin box, with white paper between each layer; and when served shoiild be neatly piled on a dish, and garnished with leaves. Probable cost. Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound for a dish. Palestine Pudding.—Put a quarter of a poimd of biscuit flour into a bowl with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of a small nutmeg, grated, and a pinch of salt. Add gradually a pint of new milk, and beat the mixture with a wooden spoon, until it is quite smooth and free from lumps, then put it into a saucepan, with two ovmces of fresh butter, and stir it over the fire till it boils and is thick. Pour it out into a shallow dish large enough to con- tain it, and when it is quite cold and stiff, cut it up into small fancy shapes, and fry them in a little butter, until they are lightly browned. Serve neatly arranged on a hot dish, with lemon-sauce poured round them. The sauce may be made as follows:—Put the rind and juice of a fresh lemon into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water and two ounces of loaf sugar, and let them boil untU the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is clear; strain, and serve. Time, about ten minutes to fry the pudding. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Palestine Soup. — Take three dozen freshly-dug artichokes, peel them, and throw them into cold water as they are done, or they will become discoloured. Put them into a saucepan with four onions, the outer sticks of a head of celery, and three pints of white stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Take out the onions and the celery, and press the artichokes through a fine sieve ; put the puree back into the saucepan, and when it is quite hot stir into it a pint of boiling cream, or if preferred, a mixture of cream and milk, season with salt, pepper; and grated nutmeg, simmer a minute or two, and serve immediately. Send fried bread, cut into small dice, to table on a separate dish. If liked, two bay leaves can be used instead of onions and celery. Palestine Soup (another way). — Peel two dozen freshly-dug Jerusalem artichokes, and slice them into a stewpan, containing three pints of stock, or of the liquid in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add four onions four potatoes, a few sticks of celery, two ounces of Ipan ham, and simmer all gently together