CUB OUB (178) with half a pint of water. The syrup should be added while hot. Probable cost, currants, 4d. per quart when plentiful. As much spirit should be poured over the fruit as will cover it, and half a pound of sugar should be allowed to every pound of fruit. Currant Lozenges, Black.—Put three quarts of ripe black currants, perfectly free from dust, into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer gently untU the juice flows freely, assisting its flow by bruising the fruit with a wooden spoon. Squeeze the fruit through a sieve, and press it to obtain as much juice as possible. Return the I'uice to the pan, with a quarter of a poimd of irown sugar to every pint of juice. Let it boil for three-quarters of an hour, and a few minutes before taking it off, add half an ounce of dis- solved isinglass for every quart of juice. Pour the paste rather thinly over plates, and put it before the fire for three days to dry. Put the cakes into a tia box with a little white paper between each, and cut them into lozenges, as required. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Currant Pancakes.—Put the thin rind of a lemon into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire for some time to draw out the flavour. When this is extracted, put with the milk two ounces of butter and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when the butter is melted, put the milk on one side to cool. Mix eight ounces of flour very smoothly with six well-beaten eggs and two table-spoonfuls of water, add a pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of brandy, and afterwards the cooled milk. Melt a little butter or lard in" the frying-pan; when quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to cover it thinly, immediately strew a few dried and picked currants over it, loosen the edges, brown the pancake on both sides, and serve with a little sugar and lemon- juice. Time, a few miuutes to fry. Allow one for each person. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclu- sive of the brandy. Currant Paste.—Put any quantity of ripe currants, either red or white, or a part of each mixed, into a hair sieve; press out three parts of the juice, and put it aside for making jelly. Rub the rest of the fruit with the juice through the sieve, and boil it, stirring it con- stantly, till it is dry. Add half a pound of sugar for each pound of the original weight of fruit, and boil twenty minutes longer. Be careful not to let the paste bum. Put it into jars, and store for use. Currant Pudding, Black, Red or Wnite.—Cut a piece of bread about half an inch thick, the size and shape of half a crown. Place it at the bottom of a round basin, and put some fingers of bread, either crust or cnmib, in an upright position round it, leaving a dis- tance of an inch between each finger. Boil a pint and a half of currants stripped from their stalks, with a quarter of a pound of sugar. When the luice flows freely, put it and the fruit gently into the mould, a spoonful at a time, and the more solid part first, so as to keep the bread in its position. Cover the top thickly with little sippets of bread, place a plate over the top, and o\ er that a weight to squeeze in the juice, and leave the pudding till cold. Turn it out before serving, and send a little custard or cream to table with it. Stale bread may be used for this pudding. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Currant Pudding, Boiled, Black, Bed, or White-—Line a plain round mould which has been well buttered with a good suet crust (see Crust, Suet for Puddings). Put in the currants, stripped of their stalks, and allow a quarter of a pound of moist sugar for a quart of currants. Place a cover on the top, make the edges very secure, so that the juice cannot escape, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth. Put it into boiling water. A few raspberries or strawberries are an agreeable addition. Time, two hours and a half to boil. Probable cost of currants, about 4d. per quart. Sufficient « for five or six persons. Currant Salad.—Pick equal weights ol white and red currants, strawberries, and cherries, and place them in alternate layers on a high dish. Strew a little white sugar on each layer, and pour over the whole some thick cream, or place little lumps of Devonshire cream at short distances from each other upon the fruit. Time, a quarter of an hour to pre- pare. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a half poimd of each fruit for a good dish. Currant Sauce for Sucking Pig.— Wash and pick one ounce of ciuTants. BoU them in half a pint of water for a few minutes, and pour them over a cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let them soak for a while. Beat them weU with a fork, and stir them into a cupful of good melted butter. Add two table« spoonfuls of the brown gravy made for the pig, a glass of port, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire imtil it is quite smooth. Sometimes currants are simply washed and dried, and sent in on a dish with the pig. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pint, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a smaU pig. Currant Sauce for Venison.—The currant sauce which used to be served with venison is the same as that given in the last recipe as intended for sucking pig. Currant Shrub, White or Bed.— Put two quarts of red or white currants into a jar. Cover it closely, and place it in a large pan of cold water. Let it simmer gently until the juice flows freely. Then strain the juice, and allow six oimces of loaf sugar, and a quart of rum to every pint of juice. The sugar should be stirred untU dissolved in the wai-m liquid, and the spirit added afterwards. Strain and bottle for use. Time, one hour and a half or two hours to draw out the juice. Sufficient for three pints of shrub. Probable cost of currants, 4d. per quart. Currant Syrup.-Take three pounds of red and three of white currants. A pound of cherries or a pound of raspberries would be an improvement, but they can be dispensed with. Bruise the fruit slightly, and put it into an earthen jar. Cover this closely, put it into a