GRE ( 280 ) GRE ■stalks untouched. Make a syrup, by boiling together a pound of loaf-sugar with a quarter of a pint of ^yater. I'ut the fruit into the syrup when boiling, and simmer for ten minutes; thi.'n lift oaeh plum out singly, boil the syrup once more, and pour it over the plums, lie- peat this for six days, boiling the j)lums foui" minutes each day. On the seventh day j)ut the greengages on a sieve, and place them in a cool oven to dry. They should be kept in single rows, in boxes, with a sheet of white paper between each layer of plums. Probable cost of greengages, when plentiful, 6d. per quart. Greengages, To Preserve in Syrup. —I'roceed exactly as in the last recipe, with the exception of removing the stones before putting the fruit into the syrup. Boil the fruit for three days—eight minutes each day—and bo cai'cful to skim the sjTup well, both before and after the fruit is put in. Blanch and slice a quarter of the kernels on the last day, and put them into the pan. Put the plums into jars, cover them with the hot syrup, and tie them down securely in the usual way. A pound of fruit is enough for a pound jar. Green Icing.—Take a handful of young spinach-leaves, wash them thoroughly, and put them, when wet, into a mortar, and bruise them until the juice can be squeezed out. Whisk the white of a fresh egg to a firm froth; add, gradually, a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and the juice of hali a lemon, with as much of the spinach-juice as wiU colour the icing sufficiently. Beat it well, one way, for half an hour, and add a little more sugar, if necessary. Spread it smoothly, and dry in a •cool oven. Probable cost, 3d. Green Indian Corn, or Maize, To Boil.—Take a pint of com before it is quite ripe, trim away the husks, and boil quickly, until sufficiently cooked, -^hich will be in about half an hour. Drain, serve on a toast, and send to table as a vegetable, with melted butter, in a tureen. A slice of butter, and a little pepper and salt may be added, if liked. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Greening for Soups,—Wash a handful of young spinach-leaves, pound them in a Tnoi-tar, put the bruised leaves into muslin, and squeeze out as much juice as is required. The soup may be heated, but must not be brought to the boiling point after the juice is added, or the green will be converted into a dirty yellow. Green Mint Sauce.—Take some young freshly-gathered leaves of mint, wash and drain them, and chop them as fine as possible. Mix a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar with a table-spoonful of chopped mint. Leave it for an hour; then add two table-spoonfuls of good vinegar. Some persons put two parts of nunt with one of parsley. If time is a consideration, the vinegar may be added at once, but the flavour will not be so good. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Green Mint Vinegar. — Take some young freshly - gathered mint, pick off the loaves, chop them slightly, and fill wide-necked bottles with tliem. I'our ovi.-r tliom some good French vinegar, and let tliem infuse for two months or more. Strain thiough muslin into small bottles, cork secui-ely, and put aside for use. Green Orange Plum Preserve.— Take the; fruit l>alure it is ripe, but h.t it be fuUy grown. Weigh the ])lums, and allow threo-quai-ters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Draw a darning-needle through each plum and make a slit in it, then put the plums into a ju'eserving-pan; stir them con- stantly, to prevent burning, until the juice flows freely. Take out the stones as they rise to the surface, and, when the plums are boiled to a pulp, add the sugar, and boil quickly till the jam will set. Blanch and pound a quarter of the kernels, and stir them in a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. Put it into jars, place tissue-paper, dipped in oil, upon the jam, and cover the jars with paper dipped in gum- water. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, a pint and a half of fruit to a pound of jam. Green Pea Soup.—Put a quart of fully- grown green peas into a saucepan with three pints of boiling water and a little mint, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly tiU the peas are tender. Remove the scum as it rises, press the whole through a coarse sieve, and let it boil up once more. Add a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. If it is preferred, half a pint of the peas may be put aside after being boiled, and added to the soup just before it is dished. Add a little spinach-j uice, if necessary. Peas are in them- selves so nourishing, that stock is not needed for the soup, which will be a better colour if water is used for it. Flavouring should be judi- ciously added. Be sparing in the use of herbs and spices, or they may overpower the flavour of the peas. Time, one hour. Probable cost of peas, 8d. per peck. Sufficient for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup (another way).—Tike a quart of green peas, fuUy grown, and put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water three lettuces, an onion, four ounces of lean ham, and half a drachm of celery-seed, bruised and tied in muslin, and a small sprig of mint. Boil gently until the peas are soft enough to pulp. Strain the soup, press the vegetables into it through a coarse sieve, add a tea-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of spinach-juice if the colour is not good. Serve as hot as possible. Time, one hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock or grav>', 9d. per quart. Suflicicnt for five or six persons. Green Pea Soup, Early Spring.—An excellent, nicely-flavoured green pea soup may be obtained before peas arc to be had by those who grow their own vegetables. Take about fom- feet of a row of young plants a foot high; cut them off close to the ground like small salad, and boil the leaves in two quarts of stock until they arc quite soft. Press them tlirough a strainer, flavour with .salt and a little popper, and colour with spinach-juice, if necessfiry. A q\iiirter of an hour before the soup is taken