(8) ALM ALM dessort-spoonful of arrowroot, mixed with a littlo wator. Add sugar to taatu, tho hoaton yolk of an egg, and enough ossonco of almondH to flavour nicelj'. Sorvo in a turoon. Do not pour tho sauce over tho pudding, as every one may not like tho flavour. A littlo brandy may be added. Time, about ton minutea to boil. Probable cost, 4d. Sulliciont for a medium-sized pudding. Almond Sauco (another -way).—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a few drops of water. Pour over them, boiling, half a pint of new milk. Slix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with a littlo water and the yolk of one egg. Stir all together briskly, over a moderate tire, until it froths. Serve with any sweet pudding. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a medium- eized pudding. Almond Soup.—Take one quart of white stock {see Stock) made cither from bones which have been soaked for a few minutes in salt and water to whiten them, or, if preferred, from fresh meat. Boil the liquor with a small piece of mace, five or si.x cloves, and a piece of stale bread. Take out the spice, and rub the soup through a sieve. Blanch and pound six ounces of sweet almonds with tho hard-boiled yolk of an egg. Add the paste smoothly and slowly to the stock when it is cool. Boil it again, and just before serving the soup add a tea-cupful of milk or cream. Probable cost, if made from bones and with milk, Is. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Almond Spice Biscuits. — Put two pounds of loaf sugar into a saucepan with sufficient water to dissolve it. Have ready two pounds of flour, mixed ■with two pounds of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, a whole nutmeg grated, the rind of a lemon finely chopped, and a tea-spoonful of finely-ground ginger. Pour the hot syrup into this mix- ture, and make it into a stiff paste. Eoll it into a long, thick piece, and bake in a quick oven. When sufficiently cooked, cut it into convenient pieces, which should be placed before the fire for a little while to dry. These biscuits should not be exposed to the air. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Almond Sponge-Cake. —Take half a pound of loaf sugar, rub the rind of a lemon on two or three of the lumps, and crush the whole to powder. Then take five eggs, separate the ■whites from the yolks, and beat the latter for some minutes; then shake in the sugar gra- dually, and beat together. Stir in six ounces of flour, -with about twenty drops of the essence of almonds. Beat the whites to a solid froth, and add them to the rest. Fill a well-oiled tin about half full, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Almond Syrup (or Orgeat).—Blanch and pound three ounces of sweet and four or five bitter almonds thoroughly, adding a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Add gradually one quart of milk and water, and sugar to taste. Boil and strain it, when it will be ready for use. It is a nice flavouring for sauces, pud- dings, creams, ice, and also makes a boiieficial drink for persons att'ected with chest-com- plaints. Time, quai-U r of an hour. Sufficient for one quart. Probable cost, 9d. Almond Tofify.—Boil a pound of sugar, with half a pint of water, until it is brittle. 1'hrow in one ounce and a half of sweet almonds, blanched and cut into halves, with two ounces of butter. It is done when it hardens on a little being put into cold water. Pour out on a well-oiled dish. Time, quarter of an hour. Sufficient for a small disli full. Probable cost, 8d. Almonds, Candied.—Blanch some al- monds, and fry tlicin in butter or oil until they are nicely browned. Drain and dry them. Boil half a pint of water with half a i>ound of sugar, and Ining it to the candying point—that is, boil until the sugar adheres to the finger and thumb, when a little is taken between thenv and opened. The finger and thumb must first be dipped in cold water. Pour this upon the almonds boiling hot, and keep on stirring till they are cold. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Almonds, Coloured. — Blanch and chop, not too finely, as many sweet almonds as may be required, dry them thoroughly, pour- a little prepared cochineal into the hands and rub them, and keep them in a warm place. Saffron soaked in water ■will make thenv yellow, spinach-juice green. Pound the leaves- of the spinach, squeeze the juice, and put it into a little jar, which must be placed in boiling water, and then simmered gently for a few minutes. Almonds, Croquettes of. — Blanch and poimd a quarter of a pound of sweet and seven or eight bitter almonds ■with three- table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, the white of an egg, and a glass of sherry or raisin ■wine.. Crumble a quarter of a pound of sponge-cake and add it to the mixture, -with the frothed whites of three more eggs. Beat it into a sohd paste, and mould it into small balls, about the size of a small orange. Dip them first into egg, then bread-crumbs, then sugar; frj- them, a few minutes in boiling butter or oil; drain and serve. Time to fry, six minutes. Probabla cost. Is. Almonds, Sugared. — Boil together a syrup made of one pound of sugar and one pint of water. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, and put them in; let them boil for some minutes. Take them out and drain them; let the syrup boil until thick, ther. return the almonds, and take them out when coated with sugar, which will be in a miniite* or two. They should be thoroughly dried,, and kept in a warm place. Time to boil, ten. minutes. Almonds, To Blanch.—Put some al- monds with a little cold water n]->cn the fire, and let thorn remain until tho water is hot, but not boiling. Drain them and draw the skins off, placing them immediately into cold water, to preserve the colour.