ORA ORA ( 480 ) Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Powl.—iiuil Iho yellow riiiil of two Suviliis oranges until it is quito tender. Cut it into thin strips about half an ineh long. Pour ov(.'r theso tho strained juieo of the oranges, a glassful of sherry or madeira, and a quarter of a pint of "Nvhito stock. Siinuior gently for iivo or six minutes, then add a pinch of cayenne and a littlo salt, if required. 8ervo very hot. Pro- hablo cost, exclusive of the wino, 4d. Sufficient for tivo or six persons. Orange Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Rub thi'oo or four large lumps of sugar upon Iho rind of a largo sweet orango until all tho yellow part is taken off. Scrapo out tho pulp and juico of two oranges, and add them to tho flavoiu-ed sugar. Mix a tea-spoonful of aiTOw- Toot very smoothly with three table-spoonfuls •of maraschino or cura9oa. Stir all gently over the fire for thi-ee or foirr minutes until the sauce thickens, then serve immediately. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the liqueur, 2d. Suffi- cient for three persons. Orange, Seville, Paste for Dessert. —Pare the yellow rind from some smooth- skinned Seville oranges, and be careful not to take with it the white thin skin which covers the fruit. Throw the rinds into boiling water, and let them keep boiling imtil they are quite tender, then place them upon an inverted sieve, and, as soon as the water has run from them, pound them in a mortar with as much pow- dered sugar as they will take. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, and put these upon buttered paper in a very slow oven. When they are dry on one side, turn them to the other. Put them in a tin box between, sheets of writing-paper, and store in a warm place. Probable cost of Se\-ille oranges, Is. per dozen. Time, about two hours to boil the rind. Orange-skins, Jelly in (sec Jelly in Orange-skins). Orange Snow-balls. —Throw half a pound of best Carolina rice loose into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it quickly for five nunutes. Peel four sweet oranges, and care- fully remove the thick white skin without injuring the fruit. Drain the rice, and when it is cool spread it out in four equal parts on four small pudding cloths. Place one of the • pared oranges on each of these, gather tho cloth carefuUy round it, and tie it securely. Plunge the dumplings into boiling water, and let them remain on the fire until done enough. Turn them out carefully, sprinkle powdered sugar over them, and send orange sauce to table with them. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four persons. Orange Souffle.—Rub three oimccs of ground nee, or, if preferred, dried flour, with two ounces of fresh butter. Pour upon these half a pint of milk sweetened and flavoured with lumps of sugar which have been rubbed upon tho rinds of sweet oranges. Pour the jnixturo into a saucepan, and stir it briskly \intil it boils. Turn it into a basin, and whcfi cool add the -well-beaten yolks of three and the whites of five eggs. Bake in a souffle- disli, in a moderate oven. Tie a broad band of well-oiled pajjor round tho top to prevent tho butter falling over when it rises liigh in tho disli. Serve tho souflle the moment it is taken out of tlie oven, or it will fall and its appear- ance bo si)oilt. Time to bake, Jialf an hour. Probable cost, lOd. SulMciout for 11 vo or six persons. Orange Souffl(5 (another way).—Mix a desseii-spoonful of flour very smoothly with lialf a pint of new milk or cream. Add the eighth of a small nutmeg grat(;d, a table- spoonful of orange-flower water, and the thin rind of a sweet orange. Put tho mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it over tlie lire until it boils. Strain through coureo muslin, and when nearly cold add four eggs well beaten, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a heaped table-spoonful of orange marmalade. Stir briskly fox two or three minutes, pour the souffle into a buttered mould, and place the mould, without tjdng it, in a cloth in a saucepan of boiling water, being careful only that the water in the pan is not sufficiently high to flow into the mould. Pin a hot napkin round the mould before serving, and sprinkle pounded sugar over the souffle. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Orange Sponge.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in half a pint of water. Strain the liquid, and when it is nearly cool add the juice of seven oranges, two of which should be bitter, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup in as much water as it will absorb. Put the mixture aside untn it is quite cold, but not at all stiff. Beat in with it the well-whisked whites of three eggs, and continue whisking imtil the sponge thickens. Turn it into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place imtil wanted. Time, half an hour to clarify the isinglass. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Syrup (for making Orangeade, &c.).—Take a dozen sweet oranges and two bitter ones. Rub off the yellow rinds with a pound of sugar in lumps, and boil this with as much water as it will absorb imtil it is quite clear. Strain the juice, add it to the sj-rup, and stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes; it must not boil after the juice is added. Pour at once into bottles, and cork closely as soon as the syrup is cold. As rubbing the rinds of the oranges with sugar involves both time and trouble, the sjTup may be more easily made as follows (the flavour, however, v.n\\ not be quite so fine) :—Cut off the yellow rinds oi the oranges as thin as possible, and be careful not to take any of tho white part. Barely cover them with water, and let them simmer very gently for half an hour. Strain the Hquid, and" put it aside to cool. Squeeze and strain the orange-juice, put it in a saucepan over a slow fire for a few minutes, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Put a pound of sugar and a table-spoonful of the liquid in which the peels were boiled to each half a pint of juice, and simmer all gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put the syrup at once into bottles, and when it