PRINCIPLES CLARET. Ixxxvii enabled claret to be sold at its present price in this country, it was fondly imagined by some that claret would gi-adually supersede the use of beer in this countr}\ Indeed, a great statesman publicly remarked that he looked forward to the timo when " the British workman would call for his glass of claret instead of his pint of beer." That time, however, has not yet arrived, and never will so long as the claret sold at ordinary public-houses remains what it is at present. Why this is the case, I cannot say, but the fact remains, and may be tested any day. Let any one go to an ordinary public-house—not a good hotel—and ask for a glass of claret, and the probability is that they vdW be served with some quite undrinkable compound. That claret will ever supersede beer with English workmen is of course a visionary idea, but many men would undoubtedly drink claret in preference to beer, especially in hot summer weather, were it to be got on draught cheap, and it is to be regretted that it cannot be more easilv obtained. In hot weather, too often the common beer sold quenches the thirst only momentarily, but soon gives rise to a craving for more. Claret, especially when mixed with water, is pi'actically unintoxicating, and is the best drink of any to allay thirst. B\irgimdy is a stronger and richer wine than claret, and has the reputation of being the most blood-making wine there is. As a rule, ordinary Burgundy is a trifle dearer than claret. However, an excellent and pure wine may be obtained for 18s. a dozen. It is not, however, so easy of digestion as claret. Those who can take Burgundy, and require nourishment, will find Burgundy a far cheaper wine than claret: Burgundy, like claret, varies immensely in quality and price. The best Burgundies are Clos Yougeot and Chambertin, and these wines generally fetch from 72s. to 84s. a dozen. Burgundy, like claret, is best in bottle, and should never be kept long in the wood. Good Beaune can be obtained considerably cheaper than Clos Yougeot or Cham- bertin, and is one of the best kinds of Burgundy that can be chosen for every-day drinking. Burgundy will occasionally throw a crust like port. Indeed, in bottling and keeping Burgundy almost as much care is requisite as if it were port, as Bur- gundy suifers from change of temperature far more than claret, and some kinds, like port, are apt to cloud even after being bottled in the spring and autumn of the year in sympathy with the vine—the best, and in fact only, means of prevention for what may be termed this second fermentation being equal temperature. On the subject of hock and Moselle Uttle need be said. Good hock is always bottled in tlie district in which the wine is made. A fairly sound hock can be obtained now at 24s. a dozen. Hocks, like Burgundy and claret, vary immensely in price, good Cabinet Johanisburg fetching at times as fabulous a price as famous vintages of Lafitte claret. Moselle resembles hock somewhat, only it has a slight Muscatel flavour: as a rule, Moselle is slightly dearer than hock—that is, in the cheaper sorts. In selecting both hock and Moselle the three chief points to be borne m mind are—freedom from acidity, brightness, and bouquet. Cheap hock and cheap Moselle are both apt to be somewhat cloudy, and as an almost universal rule with regard to wine it may be laid down that cloudy wine is always of infeiior flavour. We next come to what many regard as the highest of all mnes, i.e., Champagna Certainly m this country at any rate Champagne is regarded by many as the very height of luxury. There are many who look upon Champagne as a wine only to be used on great occasions, such as wedding breakfasts or the birthday of the heir, &c. Of late years, however. Champagne has been drank far more generally than it'was