( 155 ) cou COR dried currants. When the ingredients are well niiiod, work them into a stiff paste with six ounces of clarified fat, two eggs, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Drop the mixture in small rocky lumps upon a well-buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Id. each. Suffi- cient for one dozen cakes. Corstorphine Cream.—This is an old- fashioned cooling drink. It is made by mixing equal qu;;3itities of milk obtained on two suc- ceeding days, letting it stand twelve hours, then adding a Kttle new milk, and beating all well together ^vith sugar. Cottage Bread Pudding.—Take any crusts of bread that may have been left, and be sui-e that they ai-e perfectly clean. Put them into a saucepan -with a pint and a half of milk to one pound of bread. Simmer very gently, and when the bread is quite soft, take it from the fire and beat it well with a fork. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a couple of oimces of finely-shrcd suet, or a piece of sweet dripping the size of a large egg, three eggs well beaten, and a handful of picked currants. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 6d. Cottage Plum Pudding.—Shred very finely three oimces of best beef suet; add three oimces of flour, one tea-spoonful of baking- powder, three oimces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of raisins, two oimces of currants, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg gi-ated, a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, and two well-beaten eggs. Tie the mixture in a floured cloth, and boil it for from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Suffi- cient for a small family. Cottage Plum Pudding (another way). —Mix thoroughly one pint of flour, half a pint of sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one tea- spoonful of soda, two ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins. "Work the ingre- dients into a light paste with two well-beaten eggs and half a pint of nulk. Pour the pudding into a well-buttered mould, and bake it in a brisk oven. This pudding may be eaten cold as plain cake. Time to bake, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Cottage Potato Pudding.—Peel and boil two pounds of potatoes. Mash them, and beat them to a smooth paste, with a breakfast- cupful of milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two well-beaten eggs. Add a handful of stoned and picked raisins, put the mixture into a well-greased pie-dish, and bake it for nearly an hour. If the milk is left out, and a quarter of a pound of butter substituted, it will make a nice cake. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost: pudding, 5d. ; cake, 9d. Cottage Pudding.—(To use up crusts of bread).—Pour a kcttloful of boiling water upon some pieces of stale bread, let thorn soak till quite soft, drain oS. tho water, and beat them weU with a fork. Take out any hard lumps that will not soften, and add a large lump of butter or di-ipping, or some finely-shi-ed suet, some moist sugar, a handful of currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Put the nuxturo into a well-buttered pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. A little jam may be oaten with this pudding, which is generally a favourite with children. Time to bake, one hour and a half or two hours. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d., exclusive of the stale bread. Cottage Soup. — Put three pounds of bones, broken into small pieces, into a stewpan, with a heaped table-spoonful of salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, a pennyworth of bruised celery- seed tied in a muslin bag, or two or three of the outer sticks of a head of celery, and four quarts of cold water. When the liquid boils, sldm it, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently but continuously for three or four hours. Strain it, and put the fat into a frying-pan, with two onions sliced, and a carrot and tumip cut into dice. Fry these till lightly browned, put them with the •soup, and boil it up again with a tea-sj^oonf iil of moist sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Thicken it with four oimces of either oatmeal or prepared barley, taking care to mix them smoothly with a little cold water before putting them with the rest of the soup. Wash half a pound of rice, put it with the soup, boil it until tender, and serve. - A little powdered mint should be sent to table with the soup, to be used or not, according to taste. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for three quarts. Cottage Soup (another way).—Put a large lump of dripping the size of a turkey's egg into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh beef cut into small pieces, two large turnips, two large carrots, and two leeks, all finely sliced. Place them over a clear fire, and move them about for eight or ten minutes, until half cooked. Add, a Httle at a time, two cupfuls of cold water and half a pound of rice. Boil for five or six minutes, then add four quarts of hot water, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and a dessert- spoonful of pepper. BoU once more, skim the soup well, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer it gently but continuously for thi-ee hours. Serve a little powdered mint with it, to be used or not, according to taste. Sufficient for three quarts. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Cottage Soup, Baked.—Take one pint of dried peas, wash them well, and leave them aU night in a quart of water. Cut half a pound of fresh meat into slices, and lay them at the bottom of a deep stone jar. Put over them a slice of bacon, two large onions, two large carrots sliced, two or thi-ee sticks of celery, two table-spoonfuls of salt, one dessert-spoonful of pepper, the soaked peas, and last, four quarts of cold spi-ing water. Cover the jar closely, and put it in a hot oven for four hours, and serve ■with toasted sippets. Sufficient for three quai-ts of soup. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Counsellor's Pudding.—Butter the in- side of a mould thickly; stick the inside all over