GEB GEB ( 260 ) simmer agiiin till they are tender. Remove the scum uiroi'uUy as it rises. Take out the muslin ba^?, anil thicken the gravy with one table-spoon- ful of Hour, mixed with two of cold water. Serve on a hot dish, and place the meat in the same dish with the onions, &c. Time, an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, beef, 'Jd. per lb. Suf- ticiont for six or eight persons. German Paste.—Mix one pound of fine flour with two ounces of pounded sugar, a pinch of salt, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Kub in half a pound of butter, and make it into a smooth paste with the yolks of two eggs beaten with a table-spoonful of water. IloU the paste out in thin sheets, and fold it over two or throe times. If intended for fruit pies or tarts, the sugar is better omitted. Time, twenty minutes to pre- pjire. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. German Pudding, Baked. — Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with the thinly- j peeled rind of a large lemon. Let it stand by : the side of the fire, to draw out the flavour of I ^he lemon, and, when it is warm, stir into it till melted a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Let it get nearly cold. Mix two ounces of flour rery smoothly with a little cold milk, and mix it gradually with the milk and bxitter. Sweeten the mixture with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and put in the yolks of four, and the whites of two, eggs, well-beaten. Three-parts fill some well-buttered cups with the mixture ; bake till firm. Put two well-beaten eggs, two glasses ot sherry, and four lumps of sugar into an enamelled saucepan. Beat over the fire to a froth, pour round the puddings, and serve immediately. Time, to bake half an hour. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for eight or nine cups. Grerman Pudding, Boiled—Put the thin rind of a large lemon into half a pint of milk. Let the milk stand for half an hour, then boil, and pour it over half a pound of stale crumbs of bread, finely grated. When cool, beat it with a fork, take out the lemon-rind, and add three ounces of butter, thi-ee ounces of sugar, and four eggs, well beaten. Butter a plain round mould rather thickly, put in a layer of the soaked bread-crumbs, &c., then a layer of either good jam or marmalade, and repeat until the mould is full. Put soaked bread at the top. Cover with buttered paper, put the mould in a pan, and boil or steam the pudding. Serve with German pudding sauce [see German Pudding Sauce). Time, to boil or steam an hour and a \ half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. German Pudding, Brown Bread.— Collect as many pieces of stale brown bread as will make half a pound of crumbs, and rub them through a sieve, then soak for half an hour in a wine-glassful of sherry or boiling milk, and mix with it two ounces of fresh butter, three table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped lemon-rind, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, two table-spoonfuls of picked raisins, the same of currants, and the well- beaten yolks of six eggs. When these ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, bixtter a moiild, add to the above-mentioned ingredients th«> whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth, poui the mixture into the mould, and boil or stearn the pudding. When sufficiently cooked, turn it out, and servo with wine or Gennan puddinf.- sauce {H e Gernuin Pudding Sauce). Time tr, boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 2d., exclusive of the wine and sauce. Sufficient far five or six persons. German Pudding, Rice (excellent}.— Stew a quailcr of a pound of the Ijt-st CaroliuiJ. rice in a pint of milk, till it is very tender and diy; let it cool, then mix with it a quai-ter of a pound of fresh butter, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, three tabb-- spoonfuls of sifted loaf sugar, three ounces ol stoned raisins, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the yolks of three eggs. Add each ingredient separately, and mix thoroughly. Butter a mould, and, just before pouring th(; mixture in, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a solid froth. Cover with buttered paper, ti<; in a cloth, and boil. Turn out, and serve with Geiman jjudding sauce {see German Pudding Sauce). Boil an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. German Pudding Sauce.—Boil half a pint of light wine with thi-ee large limips of sugar. When quite hot, pour the wine over the yolks of two eggs, and beat thoroughly over a slow fire, till it froths and looks like custard. The sauce must on no account boil, or it will curdle. Just before serving, add the juice of a lemon. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of sauce. This is a very good sauce for a boiled pudding. German Puffs.—Put a quarter of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter. When it boils, mix smoothly with, it two table-spoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt, half a small nutmeg, grated, and one heaped table-spoonful of sugar. When cool, add two well-beaten eggs. Butter some cups, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven. Serve as hot as possible, with wine or sweet sauce. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five cups. Grerman Puffs, Almond.—Blanch and pound one ounce of sweet, and two of bitter almonds, with a little orange-flower or rose- water; add four table-spoonfuls of new milk, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, smoothly mixed with another table-spoonful of milk, the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, a tiny pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Beat thoroughly. Butter some cups, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a quick oven. Serve as hot as possible, ■with wine or .sweet sauce. Time to bake, a quaiier of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four cups. German Salad.—Take any kind of cold boiled vegetable, such as cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, potatoes, sea-kale, or a little of three or four kinds. Cut them into smaU pieces, and, if the flavour is liked, add chopped onion, or chopped raw apple. Season witt