(46) BEA and a quarter, and should bo moved in the muicopuu fur a few minuto.s after it is put to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for live or six persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor {k la Pou- lettii).—Boil one quart of youufj^ broad beans over a quick fire until nearly done; then put them into a stowpan Avith sweet herbs very finely cut, a little suf,'ar, half a pint of stock; pepper and salt at discretion. Before bcf^inninf? to stow see that the beans are well drained from the water in which they wore boiled. Stew until half the liquor is absorbed, and just as they are on the point of simmering beat up the yolk of an egg with a quarter of a pint of cream, and add it to them. Time, ten minutes to boil; fifteen to stew. Probable cost, from 6d. to 8d. per peck. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor, Mashed. —This is the only way in which old beans may be cooked to advantage. They should be first boiled in the ordinary way fully half an hour, by which time the skins will have burst, and they may be easily removed. Mash them with the back of a wooden spoon until quite smooth, then put them back into the stewpan with a little sugar, butter, pepper, and salt. Warm up, and then press them into a buttered mould. The mould should be hot and kept hot until ready to serve ; then turn out. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Beans, Broad or Windsor,To Stew. —Have ready a good rich brown gravy. Cut up some small onions, chives, and parsley; throw them into the gravy and simmer for ten minutes before the beans are put in. Sprinkle a quart of beans with two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and one of sugar, mix together and put them into the gravy. Stir the beans gently over a slow fire till the gravy is absorbed by them. In ten minutes serve them up. Pro- bable cost, 6d. a peck. Sufficient for a dish. Beans, Broad or Windsor, with Ham or Bacon.—This is a very popular dish. The beans must be boiled separately and not ^vith the ham. They should be young, and only shelled just before cooking. Put them into boiling water with a little salt, boil very quickly, drain, and pour parsley sauce over them. Place the ham on the beans. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per peck. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beans, French or Kidney —Choose fine young beans, and be careful that they are the right sort. The best kind are the case- knife, because they have no strings, and are consequently all eatable, and need only be broken in two, not cut. Should these not be obtainable, take the youngest that can be pro- cured : remove the thread or string that runs along the back of the pod, then cut them in a slanting direction lengthways in very thin slices, throw them into boiling water well salted, and to preserve their colour boil without the lid of the saucepan. "When tender, drain in a co- lander, put a sinall piece of butter and a dash of popper, and give the whole a shake. Home cooks add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, but we do not think this an improvement. This dish may bo varied in a great many ways, and with great success. Cold French beans with oil and vinegar make an excellent and refreshing salad. They may also, when cooked and dmined, be mixed with some good brown gravy, and served alone as a course after the moat. Beans, French (a la Fran(,-aiBe). —Cut and boil one pound of French beans; drain well and put them into a stewpan over the fire to dry or absorb the moisture; shake the pan that they may not burn. Wlien quite free from the water add three ounces of fresh butter, tlie juice of half a lemon, pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of good gravy. Keep shaking the stewpan until the beans are quite hot, and serve quickly. Time, quarter of an hour to boil; ten minutes to stew. Probable cost, from 2d. to 4d. per poimd. Sufficient for two persons. Beans, French (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Prepare and boil one pound of beans in the usual manner; see that they are well drained from the water. Keep them hot, and when dry put them into a stewpan with two ounces of melted butter, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt, and a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice. Shake the pan over a brisk fire, mix well, and serve hot in eight minutes. Sufficient for two persons. Beans, French (a la ProvenQale).—Brown some slices of onion with oil instead of butter; make them of a light brown, and add some French beans that have been prepared and boiled in the ordinary way, with chopped pars- ley, thyme, chives, and bay-leaf. As soon as the vegetables are done, remove them on to a dish; put a little vinegar into the pan, boil up and throw over the beans. If ofl. be disliked, fry the onions in butter, and add gravj' instead of vinegar. The jviice of a lemon is sometimes preferred. Beans, French, Boiled.—Only the ends and stalks require to be taken off when the beans are very young, and no mode of cooking can make veiy old ones eatable. Put them as they are prepared into cold water. They are cut according to taste lengthwise into thin strips or obliquely into a lozenge form. Tho strings should be drawn off with the tops and stalks when they are come to their proper growth. Put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, allow the steam to escape, and keep boiling very fast until tender. Time, fifteen minutes if young; twenty to twenty-five minutes if old. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Beans, French (Haricots verts).—Boil and drain the beans in the usual way, and put them into a stewpan with some butter thickened - with flour. Add chopped parsley, thjnnfr, chives, &c., and a small cupful of stock; season to taste with salt and pepper. Stew for some time, then thicken with two eggs well beaten up with a little milk or cream, and serve quickly. A little lemon-juice may also be added. Time to