( 222 ) FOW lacon, and add, lastly, thi-ee-quarters of a pint of water, and tho sauce. Buato the fowl fre- quently ; throw into the giavy one dozen and a half of peeled chestnuts, find be careful not to stew too quickly. When it has simmorod about two hours and a half take up the fowl, put the bacon round it, and pour a rich white sauce over it. Dish the beef separately, with the vegetables and gravy. Servo both dishes at once. Probable cost, 8s. 6d. Sufficient for six or sovon persons. Fowl, Braised, with Tomatoes.—Put a stewpan over tho tii-e, and when hot, rub a clove of garlic over the bottom two or throe times. Lay a fowl in the pan, prepared as if for boiling, tho breast being covered with well-buttered paper. Use the best part of a quarter of a pound of butter on the paper, and pour in a large breakfast-cupful of strong white gravy. Bring the gravy to a boil, and then draw it aside to simmer gently. Baste frequently with the gravy for three-quarters of an hour, then add half a dozen tomatoes sliced, a shallot minced, salt, pepper, a grain of cayenne, the quarter of a salt-spoonful of powdered ginger, the same of nutmeg, and half a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard. Put the tomatoes in last, with the juice, strained, of a large lemon, and a wine-glassful of Marsala. Let it come to a boil, but continue to simmer slowly, and baste for an hour or more. Serve the fowl on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over. Time to simmer fowl in gravy, two hours. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Broiled.—This is a hasty and very excellent dish, suitable for the supper-table, to be had in perfection at Windsor, Cookham, &c. Take off the head of a young fowl, and when the bird is dead, draw and plunge it into boiling water. Remove the skin and feathers together. Split it up the back, and lay the inside downwards on a gridiron over a clear fire. Baste frequently, and pepper lightly on all sides. When sufficiently done, put it on a hot dish, sprinkle salt, and rub with butter. Serve with mushroom, tomato, or liver and lemon sauce. The fowl should be turned over when half cooked. Time to broil, thirty-five minutes. Fowl, Broiled, with Mushroom Sauce.—Divide a large fowl into quai-ters, broil as in last recipe, basting plentifully with butter. To do this rub with butter tied in muslin, pepper lightly, and season to taste with salt. Make a sauce as follows :—Stew two dozen button-mushrooms and a slice of lean ham with a little butter; add some brown gravy, about three-quarters of a pint, pepper, and salt, and simmer till the mushrooms are tender. Thicken to the consistency of cream, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and half that quantity of sugar. Serve with the sauce round the fowls. Time to broil the quarters of fowl, about thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Capolitade.—Boil down the bones, skin, and trimmings of a roast or boiled fowl, with a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a couple of onions sliced. Cut up the meat into small pieces, put it into a atcwpaii and when the gravy has boiled for half an hour, strain, and add a little roux, and a wine- glassful of sherry. Throw this 8au(;e, boiling, over the fowl in the stewpan, and let it slitiid by tho side of the tire to got hot thi'ougli; then sciuooze in the juice of a lemon. Send tho fowl to table garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Fo^yl, Croquettes of,—Mix with every half-pound of soUd fowl (free from bone or gristle), two ounces of scraped ham. Make half a pint of gravy, by boUing the Ijones and rejected pieces. Fry two or tlu-ee sliallots in a little butter, add the gravy, and season with powdered mace, pepper, salt, and half a tea- spoonful of pounded sugar. Rub up a table- spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter; put this and the mince to the gravy, and wheu thick, stii- in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Make into balls as soon as cold, and fry a nice brown. Roll them in egg and bread-crumbs before frying. Time, ten minutes to fry. Fowl, Curried.—Cut up a young fowl; roll each piece in a mixture of curry-powder and flour, three dessert-spoonfuls of each. Cut four large onions into rings, and divide the rings into bits of an inch in length; fry a light brown in two ounces of butter, with a small piece of garlic, if approved of. Add the pieces of fowl, and two more ounces of butter. Put all into a stewpan, and stew gently with hot milk, broth, or water, half a pint. Season to taste with salt, and cover well. The sauce should be reduced one-third, to which squeeze in the juice of >ial'f a lemon, Ijef ore being sent to table. Rice should accompany this dish, either roxmd the dish or separate. Fowl, Curried (a I'lndienne).—Great care is required in the preparation of this ex- cellent curry. Take a tender j'oung fowl, pluck, draw, and singe it in the usual way, and cut it into small neat pieces convenient for serving. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of Captain "White's cirrry paste, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and rub the mixture to a smooth paste with a little cold stock. Stir in gradually one pint of boQing stock ; pour the sauce into a delicately clean stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it is smooth and thick. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frjdng-pan, and slice up six large onions, three or four tomatoes, three cloves of garlic; chop up also an ounce of raisins without stones; fry all, and brown the pieces of fowl a nice colour in the same butter. Pour the curry gravy over the fried fowl, move the stewpan to the side, simmer gently till done, then add tho juice of half a lemon and serve. Time, about two hours to simmer tbe fowl. Pro- bable cost, as. 6d. Sufficient for five persons. Fowl Cutlets.—Bone a fresh yoimg fo^yl; separate the wings, legs, and morrytliought: pick out all the meat from the inferior parts, mnice it, and season xs-ith ])opper, salt, and cho]iped lemon-peel. Put it in a mortnr, and smooth to a paste, with a small quantity of gravy, pro- cured by lioilins? the bones and trimminsrs. Jlako cutlets of the legs, wings, ica.; dip oich cutlet into egg, spread tho forcemeat over, and breads