FIS PIS ( 218 ) Fish Sauce.—To a quaxt of the best vine- gar add an ounce and a hall' of cayenne pepper, two or three shtillots, a few shi-eds of garlic, and two table-spoonfuls each of wahiut ketchup and soy. To be kept in a large bottle, and well shaken every day. At the end of a fortnight divide the sauce, and keep it well sealed in smaU bottles. Use as required. It wiU be lit for use in about three weeks. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Fish, Sauce for Boiled. — Take some of the water in which the hsh has been boiled, and simmer in it for a quarter of an hour an onion, an anchovy, and a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup; add a pint of good veal gravy, strain, and thicken with butter and flour. Two table-spoonfuls of the fish broth will be enough for this quantity. Probable cost, 4d. Fish Sauce, without Butter.—Boil down a table-spoonfid of horse-radish, an onion, four cloves, and two blades of mace pounded, in half a pint of water and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When the onion is soft, mince it with a couple of anchovies, and stir it into the sauce, adding a tea-spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of black pepper. Mix the beaten yolks of threG eggs (which should be first strained) into the sauce. Do this gra- dually, and throw the sauce from the pan to a basin, and then toss it over the fire till it is thick enough to serve. Time to boil the sauce, half an hour; to thicken with eggs, five minutes. Fish Scallop.—Take half a pound of any cold fish; weigh it when the bones and skin have been removed. Put it into a stewpan, with walnut ketchup and made mustard, half a tea-spoonful of each, and half a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, mixed first with half a pint of cream and then with the fish. Heat all together, but it should not boU. FUl a dish or put into scallop shells; cover with bread- crumbs, and place butter in small lumps over the top. Brown in the oven, or use a sala- mander. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the fish. Fish Soup.—Slice two middle-sized onions, fry them of a light brown in butter, and fry also three pounds of eels—they should not be skinned. When just browned (five minutes will do them), add three quarts of boiling water, and while boiling skim carefully. Throw in allspice and black pepper, two drachms, half an ounce of the leaves of lemon, thyme, and winter savoury mixed, and a good bimch of parsley (all green). When the soup has boiled slowly about two hours, during which time it should have been well skimmed, strain and thicken. Melt three ounces of butter, and stir into it as much flour as will absorb the butter. When quite dry, pour some of the soup to it and stir until smooth; then add the remainder by degrees, and simmer altogether for a few minutes, when the soup should be strained into a clean saucepan oyer neatly-cut pieces of fish, such as soles, eels, plaice, flounder, skate, &c., all fried, and force- meat balls. Keep hot, and serve in about ten mmutes after the soup has been poured over the fish. Good fish soup may be made with a skate, a floimder, and a couple of small eels, cut into pieces, and fried in butter with an onion sliced, then boiled with half a gallon of water tiU good, and flavoured with salt and pepper. This stock will keep several days in cold weather. Fish Soup (another way).—Boil down the trimmings and bones of any fish intended for this soup; put them, with three pints of fish stock, into a saucepan, and add three middle- sized onions halved, two lemons sliced, and the rind of one grated, a bvmch of parsley, and some chervil. When well stewed, strain through a tamis. Have ready fillets of fish, about six pounds of sole, carp, or perch, and when fried, put them into the soup. Season it with a tea- spoonful of salt and half the quantity of mace and cayenne mixed; and add a couple of glass- fuls of white wine. The soup should be good, clear, and free from fat. Simmer ten minutes, and serve with quenelles of fish. Time, one hour to stew trimmings. Sufficient for six persons. Fish Soup (economical).—Take care of the liquor in which fish has been boiled. Put the bones, fins, head, and trimmings of the dressed fish into three pints of the liquor, and stew gently till reduced to one quart. Strain the stock and leave it till cold. When the soup is wanted put the liquor into the stewpan with an onion, or better still, a leek, a little salt and cayenne, and two large potatoes. Boil till these are soft, then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Make it hot again, and add a few drops of essence of anchovy. Put it into the soup- tureen, and mix a cupful of boiling milk with it. Have ready a table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Sprinkle this upon the soup at the last moment, and serve. Fish Soup Quenelles.—Pick out the meat from a lobster, and pound it, together with three ounces of butter. Season with salt and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of mace and cayenne pepper mixed together; blend the meat to a paste with the yolk of a raw egg, and add while mixing the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and two table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs. Mould in a tea-spoon and poach the quenelles for two or three minutes, or fry in butter a light brown before they are put in the soup. When used as an entree, or breakfast dish, serve with a good gravy, after being boiled or fried in butter. Time, ten minutes to fry for entree. Fish Soup, White.—Clean and trim any- kind of fish—iresh or salt water. Boil the trim- mings with a head of celery, a small quantity of parsley, two onions, a bay-leef, and five or six cloves. Use water, and cover the saucepan closely. When the contents have boiled one hour, add as much more water as will be required to make the soup. Strain it, and stir in a cup of cream. Season with salt and white pepper. Lay in the tureen some eggs, nicely fried in butter; allow one for each person. Pour the soup over, and serve with toasted bread. Sufficient, half a pint for each person. Fish Soup, with Potatoes. —Have ready the fish broth; made as directed for fish