PRINCIPLES—ROASTING. <^oocl red gi-avy in it. Underdone lamb will be flabby and sodden; consequently, lamb really requii-es considerably more time than mutton. Lamb, too, should be always cooked before a particularly brisk fire, and should be constantly basted. Just as lamb requires more roasting than mutton, so does veal require longer roasting than beef. I think, as a rule, the principle will be found to be, that the closer the meat the longer does it take to cook, whether the process be roasting, baking, or boiling. For instance, a leg of mutton is closer meat than a shoulder, and consequently, supposing a leg and shoulder be the same weight, yet the former would require longer roasting than the latter. So, too—supposing the weight the same—would a silver-side of beef, which is very close meat indeed, take longer to boil than an aitch-bone of beef. Veal is, as a rule in this country, a closer meat than beef, and requires a great deal of cooking. Underdone veal, like underdone lamb, is extremely unwholesome. Pork, again, is a white and close meat—it is almost impossible to over-roast pork. A large leg of pork weighing twelve to sixteen pounds will take four or five hours to roast properly. It will also be foimd advisable to rub the skin of the pork over with oil previous to roasting it, as other^vise the skin has a tendency to get hard and split. There are some things that are nearly always overcooked, and among these we would particularly mention geese and ducks. Cooks should recollect that geese and ducks are hollow, and that the meat on the breast is very often only an inch and a half deep at the outside. Too often ducks are sent to table so dried up that the flavour is completely gone, and when carved the breast-bone is dry and white. A large duck does not require more than three-quartei's of an hour to an hour to cook, and a good-sized goose one hour and three-quarters. In roasting poulti-y the same thing holds true as in roasting meat, viz., that the closer the meat the longer the time. This is very marked in contrasting the time it takes to roast a goose and the time it takes to roast a turkey—the latter, in proportion, taking nearly double the time of the former. A large turkey weighing say fourteen pounds would require three hours and a half, whereas a large goose that size would only require one hour and three-quarters. In roasting all kinds of poultry and game, basting is of the utmost importance, as otherwise the meat is certain to be dry and flavourless. In roasting some kinds of game it is a very common custom, especially abroad, to fasten a piece of fat bacon over the breast, and, indeed, sometimes the bii-d is sent to table with the bacon on it. Of course this is purely a matter of taste; but to my thinking the bacon spoils the flavour of the bird. What should be done in roasting partridges is to calculate exactly the time when they will be wanted, and not to roast them too soon. Some cooks get nervous, and in fear of being late, absolutely get some dishes that are not wanted till quite the finish of dinner ready when dinner begins. In large parties, partridges should not be put dovm to roast till after the soup and fish have come downstairs. The entries invariably take a long time handing round, and then the joint has to follow. I have no doubt that many will remember how invariably at large dinner-parties the game is overcooked and dried up. Hare is a very dry meat, and requires a great deal of roasting. Over-roasted hare is one of the most insipid things sent to table. Yet too often hare will be found to be quite dried up. The proper form of roast hare is, that when the knife cuts into the back the meat, though not red, should be juicy; too often it will be found to be quite dry. So, too, with a roast pheasant. After the breast