JCXXIV OASStSLL's COOKEllY. attained. These vegetables, therefore, should not be thrown into the stock direct but into boiling water first. By tliia means, besides perfect cleanliness being guaranteed, the vegetables wDl look brighter than they otherwise would do ; and we all know the diflerence between soup in which the caiTot is a bright red and the peas a bright gi-een, and soup in which the former is a dii-ty brown and the latter a dirty yellow. I would here, in passing, observe that many English cooks imagine that spring soup and J ulienne soup are the same thing. In properly-made Julienne soup the vegetables should be first stewed in a little butter in a stewpan till they begin to slightly turn colour, or, in other words, till they just begin to brown ; then the stock is added, as well as a little sugar. Owing to this difference in the ■ preparation, the flavour is materially altered—of course the butter is thrown up by boiling and removed by skimming. We will next discuss that exceedingly delicious Boup kno^vn as clear mock turtle. An excellent receipt is given in its proper place, 'I would, however, remind the cook of the importance in making clear mock turtle of having the flavouring herbs in proper proportions. Sweet basil should form quite one-third of the whole quantity, and marjoram, lemon-thyme, and winter savoury should make up the other two-thirds. We will suppose, of course, that as a rule calf's head is used to make the soup, though a very excellent imitation can be made by using pig's head instead. Cayenne pepper should also be used, and not black. But we will not enter into the whole details of soup making which, as we have said, will be found elsewhere, but will say a few words on the genex*al principles to be remembered when adding wine to soups. A very rich, glutinous soup like mock turtle, or of coui'se still more like real turtle, will bear a large quantity of wine. Madeira is by far the best, but good sherry will answer the same purpose. And here I would strongly appeal to the mistress of the house against the folly of using, not cheap sherry, but some extraordinary compound that is not sherry at all, for cooking purposes. Bad sherry will no more make good soups or jellies than bad eggs will make good puddings or custards. We shall have to speak of this latter point in another place, but will keep to the sherry. Suppose you have been making some excellent soup from the half of a calf's head, or from some dried turtle flesh, which makes such splendid soup if you only have the patience to soak the flesh for two or three days, and boil it steadily for two more. Why should you spoil this soup—absolutely spoU it—for the sake of saving the diff"erence between the price of half a pint of good sherry and half a pint of some decoction sold under the same name 1 There is a good old saying that is most appropriate—" It is no use spoiling the ship for the sake of a ha'porth of tar." Do not let me be misunderstood on tliis point. I do not for one moment mean^ that it is necessary to have old-bottled wine or wine of any pai-ticularly good vintage,' but what I mean is, it must be Avine, and what I maintain is, that too often what is put in soups is not wine at all. The best sherry for the purpose is golden sherry, and not a pale dry wine. Since the vineyards at Madeira have recovered, it is quite possible to get ache^ip rich full wine, not fit to drink in fact at present, but nevertheless the very thuig for soiip. I should be glad if some of my readers would try the following experiment :— Have some good clear mock turtle soup made; taste it before the wine is put to it suppose the quantity to be three quarts. Add a tumblerful of madeira, and tnen taste, and let them ask themselves whether the ditierence in the flavoui- is not weU worth the money^