DAM DAM ( 181 ) gently that the arrangement of fruit, &c., may not bo disturbed. Add four well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk sweetened to taste, and let the basin remaia unmoved for an hour, then tie down securely with a cloth and boil one hour. Probable cost, without spirits or wine, Is. Sufficient for tiu-ee or four persons. Damson Cheese. — Put some sound, freshly-gathered damsons into an earthenware jar, cover it closely, and place it in a pan of cold water on the fire. Let it boil, and keep adding the water as it wastes away until the fruit is quite tender. Then, whilst they are still waiTH, remove the damsons, skin and stone them, and press them through a coarse sieve into the juice in the jar. Put half a pound of loaf sugar, broken into small pieces, to every pound of pulp, and boil all together quickly to a stiff paste. A few of the kernels may be blanched and left in, and these will much improve the flavour. The sugared fruit should be boiled until it sticks to the spoon in a mass, and leaves the pan quite dry; and if, when lightly touched, it leaves the fingers, you may know that it will keep well. Put it quickly into plates or shallow moulds; lay brandied or oiled papers over it, and cover the jars closely. Keep in a dry place. Before being served, it may be cut into shapes. Damson cheese is usually served at dessert. Time, two or three hours to draw out the juice ; about two hours to boil the sugar and fruit together. Probable cost, 9d. or lOd. a four oimce jar. Sufficient, one pound of damsons for a small jar. Damson Cheese (another way).—Select ripe, sound fruit. Put the damsons into a large stone jar, and allow a quarter of a pound of sugar to every quart of fruit. Set the jar up to its neck in a vessel of boiling water, or place it in a very cool oven till the fruit is tender ; then remove the stones with a fork, and boil all together in a preserving-pan till it is a thick piilp. Add half a pound of pounded loaf sugar to each poimd of fruit, and boil it again until it leaves the pan quite dry, and is a thick mass. Be careful to stir always or it will bum. Put it into moulds with a brandied paper over the top. Tie down, and store in a dry place. Time, two hours and a half to boil. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. per small pot. Sufficient, one pint for a very small pot. Dainson Cheese (another way).—Place the fruit unskinned in a stone jar in a saucepan of water. Set the pan over the fire, and allow it to boil until the fruit appears dry; take out the stones, pour ofE some of the liquid, and to every two pounds of fruit add haK a pound of sugar; stir it well, and allow.it to simmer slowly for two hours, after which, boil it quickly for half an hour. The jam may then be poured into pots, and covered so as totally to exclude the air. Damson Drops.—Pick the stalks from flome damsons, wipe them and put them into a modorately-hcated oven to bake, but do not let them burst. When sufficiently done take oflE the skin and remove the stone ; add some cnished lump sugar to the pulp, and mix until it- is a Btifi paste. Drop the mixture upon paper in small quantities of uniform size, and put them into a moderately-heated oven to dry. When sufficiently dry, take them out and turn them down over a sieve, when, by damping the paper, the drops will fall on the sieve, and must be again hardened in a cool oven. Store them in a box with paper between each layer. They will keep a long time in this way if the air be excluded from them. Damson Jam (Bullace or Common Plum). —All fruits to be preserved should be gathered after two successive dry days, if possible. Get damsons quite ripe and freshly gathered; boil them forty minutes without sugar, then simmer and skim fifteen minutes with three-quarters of a pound of good sugar to each pound of damsons. Common sugar is thought by some persons to be good enough for dark-coloured preserves, but they are not the most economical, as will be shown by the quantity of scum which, rises to the surface. Put into pots and cover with egged paper, which readily sticks to the pots and excludes the air. A paper dipped in brandy may be laid on the top of the jam, but it is not necessary. Store in a dry place. Pro- bable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound pot. Damson Jam (another way). — The broken damsons, of which there must always be a quantity in a large gathering, will make an excellent jam (reject poor ones). Put six pounds of damsons without stones, or the stones may be removed after, into a pre- serving-pan with one pint of water, boil till the pulp may be rubbed through a sieve, and to every poimd of pulp allow one pound of sugar. The sugar must first be boiled to a eyrup, and then added to the pulp. Stir the jam, and, when sufficiently boiled, test it on a plate, and store in a dry place with brandied or oiled paper, and an outside covering of tissue-paper egged down. Allow one hour for boiling. Damson Jelly.—Take the required quan- tity of fine ripe damsons and one-third of the quantity of bullaces. Separate the stalks from the fruit, put them into a large stone jar, first cutting them with a knife as they are put in. Tie down with paper, and place the jar in a moderate oven over night. When the juice is poured ofE, strain, weigh, and boil it quickly for twenty-five minutes without sugar; then add ten ounces of sugar to each pound of juice, and boil and skim imtU the jelly wiU set. During the whole time of boiling the jelly should be stirred. Damson Pudding.—Shred up very finely four ounces of good beef suet, and rub it well into half a poimd of flour. Use as much water as win make a smooth firm paste, then line a well-buttered basin, and cut a cover for the top. FiU with the damsons, and sweeten to taste. Tie a floured cloth firmly over the top, and boil steadily two and a half to three hours. A mix- ture of apples and damsons do well together. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Damson, Solid.—Skin, core, and quarter one pound and a quarter of good boiling apples, put them into a preser\Tng-pan with one pound of damson juice (extracted from the fi'uit by