ANC ANC tho skin, nnd split them open with the fingers and thumbs; remove tho backhonc, and cut each fillet, or side, in two. They may bo seasoned with cayenne, and used for wmd- wichos. Time to soak, four hours. Probable cost. Is., for a half-pint bottle. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Anchovy and Caper Sauce.—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg; molt it in a sjuicopan; stir into it, with a wooden spoon, half its weight in flour; then add a quarter of a pint of water. When boiling, add two anchovies boned and chopped small, with a dessert-spoonful of bruised capers. A little lemon-juice is an improvement. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient for a small dish of fish. Probable cost, 6d. Anchovy Butter. — Take six pickled anchovies, cut off their heads, wash and bone them; then pound them with sufficient butter to make a paste, and add a little scalded and chopped parsley. If a pestle and mortar should not be at hand, the anchovies may be made into a paste and mixed with the butter vdth. a broad knife on a piece of hoard. This butter is very useful to flavoiir many sauces, especially those that are used for beef steaks. Average cost for a half-pint jar, Is. 8d. Time, half an hour. Anchovy Butter (another way).—Take three anchovies, wash, bone, and poimd them in a mortar; pull the stalks from a bunch of parsley, scald and chop it, and then pass it through a sieve. Mix these ingredients with half a pound of butter, and when quite blended make quickly into pats. Garnish with parsley. If prettily moulded it looks weU on a supper- table. Average cost, Is. Anchovy Butter Sauce.—Add to half a pint of good brown sauce, or sauce Espagnole, a piece of anchovy butter half the size of an egg, and also some lemon-juice to conceal the salt taste produced by the butter. Mix thoroughly and serve. Anchovy Ketchup.—Put half a gaUon of mild ale into a saucepan with half a pound of anchovies, three blades of mace, one tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, a little whole ginger, six small onions, a couple of cloves, and twenty black peppercorns. Let all boil up once, then draw them from the fire, and allow them to simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Strain tliroug:h a fine hair sieve, and stir into the strained liquid two table-spoon- fuls of mushroom ketchup. When it is quite cold, bottle it, and cork it securely. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for two quart hottles. Anchovy Omelet.—Take half a dozen salted anchovies; wash them lightly in cold water to remove a little of the salt taste, and fillet the fish. The fillets of anchovy, bottled in oil, sold at Italian warehouses, answer perfectly. Fry thin slices of bread, cut them into small squares, and on each square lay a little piece of anchovy. Beat up, rather more than for an ordinary omelet, a dozen eggs ; season with pepper and salt. With half the quantity make a large, flat, thin omelet, like a pancake. Do not tum it, but lay it on a hot disli. Over its sui-fuco distribute the jjieces of fried bread and anchovy. Witli the remainder of tho eggs make another omelette like the first. Lay it over the other with the under- side uppeiTOost. Sot it a few minutcH before the fire, or in a gentle oven, to make the two surfaces adhere, and serve with any savoury siiuce that suits tho taste. Time to fry, five minutes for each omelet. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 28. Anchovy Paste.—Take a dozen anchovies, scrape them clean, mise the flesh from tho bones, and pound them most thoroughly in a mortar; then press them through a fine sieve. Add the same .weight of butter melted, but not hot. The less butter used the stronger will be the flavour of the anchovies. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a small jar. Anchovy Powder.—Pound some an- chovies in a mortar. Kub them through a hair sieve, and make them into a paste with dried and sifted flour. ItoU them into cakes, then toast them before the fire, and rub them to powder. If the flavour is liked, grated lemon- rind and cayenne may be added after the cakes are baked. Put the powder in a bottle, cork it closely, and it will keep for years. It is useful for flavouring purposes, and makes a nice relish when sprinkled over sandwiches or toast. Time to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. for a half-pint 'bottle. A dessert-spoonful of powder wiU flavour half a pint of sauce. Anchovy Salad.—Wash six anchovies- in water, remove the bones and the insides, and also the heads, fins, and tails. Put them on a dish with two large lettuces cut small, half a dozen young onions, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a sliced lemon. Pour over them the juice of a lemon mixed with salad-oil,, and send to table. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a small dish. Anchovy Sauce.—Take six anchovies, cut oflE their heads, and wash them well, then let them boil gently in a quarter of a pint of water until they are dissolved. Strain the liquid, and add to it a pint of melted butter, cayenne and nutmeg to taste, and two table- spoonfuls of port wine. Serve with the fish. The sauce should be poured over boiled fish and round fried fish. Time to boil, half an hour. Sufficient for a large-sized dish of fish. Pro- bable cost. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Anchovy Sauce (another way).—Cut the heads off four anchovies, bone them, and pound them in a mortar with sufficient butter to make a paste. Have ready a pint of melted butter, and mix it gradually and smoothly \y\ih. the paste. Add cayenne pepper to taste, and the juice of half a "lemon, and lot all boil up for a. minute, stirring all the time. Time to boil, five minutes. Sufficient for a large-sized dish of fish. Probable cost, 8d. Anchovy Sauce (another way).—A quick- and easy way of making anchovy sauce is to stir two or three spoonfuls of prepared essenc*