( 417 ) MEL MEL done, but not overdone. Any additional flavour- ing may be given to the stew, and forcemeat- balls, made of the liver of the hare, may be introduced; but this is not frequently done. Time, three hom-s to boil stock. Melon.—This fruit is generally used in England only for dessert, but on the Continent, ■where it grows more abundantly, it is served with the bouilli, and is even frequently eaten before the first course,' as it is supposed to sharpen the appetite. In this case, pepper and salt are the ordy accompaniments. When for dessert, it should be sent to table in a dish, tastefully adorned with flowers and smaller fruit, so as to afford a pleasing contrast of colours to the eye. Sifted sugar and brandy are generally eaten with this delicious succu- lent fruit. The common, or musk-melon, is an herbaceous, succulent climbing or trailing annual, which has been cultivated for the sake of its fruit in hot Eastern countries from time immemorial. The water-melon is remarkable for the quantity of water it contains—namely, ninety-four per cent. No wonder, it has been well said, that old Mehemet Ali should have been able to eat up an entire forty-pound melon after the substantials of his dinner were dis- posed of. Melon, Compote of.—Pare and slice the fruit, and place it in boiling syrup, which should be made of white sugar, water, and any light wine. When the fruit is, tender, lay it out in a dish, and cover it with syrup. Time to boil, five to ten minutes. Probable cost, according to the season. Sufficient, a pound of sugar to half a pint of water. Melon Glace.—Prepare a syrup as fol- lows :—Dissolve three pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water; whisk in part of the white of an egg, then set it to boil gently for five minutes. Add a little cold water at two dif- ferent times, and strain through a fine muslin into an enamelled stewpan. Flavour with essence of vanilla. Cut a melon lengthwise in good slices, remo\'ing the rind and seeds, put them into the above syrup while hot, and let them be covered up until next day, when boil the syrup, and pour it hot over the fruit; do this on three successive days. Lastly, put the fruit into jars, and pour the hot syrup over. When cold cover with bladder, and keep in a cool place. Melon Kalteschale.—Kalteschale is a sort of cold soup, but when prepared from fruit is a most acceptable substitute for pies, tarts, &c. Between layers of thinly-sliced melon strew three ounces of sifted white sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Let them stand for about an hour, then throw over them a pint of German wine. Stir carefully, but do not break the slices of melon. The kalteschale should be prepared in a bowl, and served with rusks, or spongecakes. Time to make, an hour and a half. Melon Mangoes. — Choose small, late m^ns, green and sound. Wipe them clean, ana make a circular incision round the stem, which piece remove, to scoop out the pulped part and seeds. Make a pickle of salt and water that will float an egg, lay the melons into O a broad-bottomed pan or tub, having first re- placed the piece taken out, and pour the pickle over them, two inches above the top. In twenty-four hours take them out, and drain on a sieve. Make a seasoning of a small quantity of scraped horseradish, shred shallots, equal parts of bruised mustard and coriander seed, a few peppercorns, allspice, pounded mace, and cloves. FiU the hollow of the melons with the spice, &c.; put in beans, small onions, and cu- cumbers. The onions should be jjeeled and boiled for a minute or two, the beans, &c., scalded, and the piece sewed on fimJy with coarse thread, always remembering to lay the cut sides up when the melons are put into the jar. Boil as much vinegar as will be required to cover -with the seeds of the fruit. Strew cloves, pepper, and put in a few capsicums before straining over the melons. Cover with a cloth, and let the jar stand near the fire for an hour or so. Next daj^, and for four or five successive days, make the vinegar hot, adding at the last heating about half an ounce of garlic, the same of white peppercorns, ginger, and cardamom seeds. Boil twenty minutes. Cover when cold, and set aside for use. Melon, Pickled, for Venison.—Take melons about the size of a large orange, and before they are quite ripe. When peeled, and the seeds are taken out, slice them into a bowl of good vinegar, and cover up for a week or more. At the end of that time drain the fruit, and simmer it until tender in an enamelled pan with fresh vinegar. Again drain the slices, and when dry make a thin syrup by boiling together a pound of sugar with a pint and a half of water. Skim well, put the melons into the bottles in which they are to remain, and cover with the syrup. In eight or ten days throw oflE half of it, and fill the bottles with boiled vinegar in which the flavour of a few cloves has been extracted. Let it be quite cold before being added. Melon, Preserved.—Pare some middle- sized, not over-ripe, melons—they are better than large ones for this preserve—take out the pulp and seeds, from which press the juice. Wash the melons, and add the water to the juice to be reserved for making the syrup. Divide the melons into eight pieces, lengthwise, and soak them for twenty-four hours in cold water, in which has been put salt and vinegar, allowing two tea-spoonfuls of white vinegar and one of salt to about every half gallon of water. Let the fruit be well covered and then drained-