HAR HAR ' t «02 ) Simmor gontly for twonty miuutos. If there is not so much as a pint of gravy ronmining, it must bo uuida up with water and stuwfjd longer. Strain the gravy, and put it into a saucepan, and with it the pieces of hare, drodgod with flour, and a glass of port. Siumier for a quarter of an hour, then cut the forcemeat into slices, and put them into the gravy for three or four minutes, to get hot, then servo in a hot dish. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat and wine, 2d. JSufliciont for throe or four persons. Hare, Hashed (another way).—When no gravy remains from the previous day's din- ner, cut the liaro into neat pieces, and put the bones and trimmings aside for use. Fry throe small onions and an ounce of bacon, cut into dice, in a little butter, take them out when done, and mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the fat. Add gradually a pint of water, a blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, a bay-loaf, a sprig of parsley, five or six chives, the bones and trimmings, and a little Siilt and pepper. Simmer gently for an hour after the gravy has boiled. Strain the gravy, put in the pieces of hare and a table-spoonful of red ciuTant jolly. Boil for five minutes, and serve on a hot dish, with toasted sippets round. A little blood is an improvement to this dish as well as to many others when the knowledge of its presence is confined to the cook, but modem taste is rather opposed to it. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold hare, 6d. Sufficient Jor three or four persons. Hare, Jugged.—A hare nicely jugged is to be preferred to one cooked in any other way. Cut the hare into pieces, not one of which is larger than an egg. Fry these in a httle butter till they are lightly browned, di-ain them, and out them at once into a wide-mouthed stone jar, and pour upon them a large glassful of port. The dregs of one or two bottles, if taken care of, will answer excellently for the purpose. Tie a cloth securely over the mouth of the jar, and leave the pieces of meat in the wine for about twenty minutes. Untie the jar, and pour over the meat a little good brown gravy, strongly flavoured with onion. Add an inch of stick cinnamon, six cloves, two bay leaves, the juice of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of the forcemeat sprinkled lightly over all. Cover the jar again, and very closely put it up to its neck in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it for about an hour and a half. If more convenient the jar can be placed in the oven, in a shallow dripping tin, filled with boiling water. When this is done, it will need to be baked from two hours and a half to three hours, and care must be taken to Icocp up the supply of boiling water round it. Make up some good hare forcemeat {see Hare, Forcemeat for) into small balls the size of marbles, fry these in hot fat, and put them into the jar a minute or two before it is taken out of the oven. This dish will be much imjjroved, and will go further if a pound of steak is added, cut into very thin slices, two inches long by an inch and a half broad. Those; slices should have a little forcemeat spread upon each one, tlicn be rolled up, fastened with a small skewer, and fried and stewed with the hare. 'I'he gravy which is used for jugged hare will be better if thick(;ned with arrowroot rather tlum willi brown tliicken- ing. Serve red cunant jolly with this dieh. Excellent hare soup may be mude of the remains of jugged hare prepared in this way {nee Hare, Roast, Cold). Probable cost, supposing the hare to cost 3b. 6d., and with one pound of beef, Gs. Hare. Jugged, Mock.—Take two pounds of beef steak ; cut thorn in pieces an inch and a half square, di]) the pieces in flour, and frj' till brown in a little fat. Add as much water or stock as will cover them, a large onion stuck with eight cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, a bay-leaf, and a small carrot. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently for two hours. Have some good h;ire forcemeat ready, make it into small balls, and stew these in the gravj' with the meat for the last half hour. Just before serving, add pepper, salt, 1 and a wine-glassful of port. Serve on a hash dish, and garnish with the forcemeat balls. Send red currant jeUy to table on a glass dish. Probable cost, 28. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hare, Jugged (Yorkshire mode).—Make half a pound of good forcemeat. Divide the hare into joints, and put it into a deep earthen jar, with a poxmd of beef steak and half a pound of fat bacon. Put the beef and hare in layers, and place the piece of bacon in the middle of them. Season as in the last recipe. Pour over the hare a pint of stock and half a pint of blood. Cover the jar closely, and bake in a good oven for two hours and a half. Let the forcemeat balls be put in with the rest for the last half hour, and, ten minutes before the hare is served, add a glass of port. Be careful to lift the balls out gently, so as not to break them, and send red currant jelly to table on a glass dish. Probable cost, 6s. 6d., sup- posing the hare to cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Hare, Larded.—The flesh of hare is such dry food, that it is a saying amongst cooks that " a hare with twelve penn^nvorth of sauce is worth a shilling." ^^^len old, it ought never to be roasted without being larded, and a young hare is much improved by the same process. The fore part of the animal may be reserved for stewing, or for soup. Truss the hind part securely; pass one leg through the other, and fasten the skin round with skewers. Hold the back and legs before a clear fire for three or four minutes to "set" the flesh. Lard the thick part of the back and legs with thin strips of fat bacon {sec Larding); cover with one or two folds of buttered paper, and roast before a clear fire for three-quarters of an hour. Take off the paper during the last ten minutes, thiit the hare may be equally coloured all over. Garnish the dish with force- meat balls, and send red ciirrant jelly to t^iblo with it. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pro- bable cost of hare, from 38. 6d. to 6s. Hare, Liver Sauce for.—Simmer the livor for a quarter of an hour in pood beef gra^•3•, mince it finely, and with it a small