END ( 204 ) EMP and colour it with cochinoiil until it is of tho proper tint. Whon it has Bufliciently boiled it will assume a whitish appoaranco, and may then bo poured out on a slab, and divided into Bcpiaros. Empress Pudding.—Take equal quan- tities of powdered sugar and butter, about six ounces of each. Turn the butter back to cream, mix four well-beaten yolks of eggs with it; add tho sugar, and when the whole is well mixed, throw in by degrees six ounces of flour, and boat all thoroughly together. Bake in a brisk oven in small cups; only half fill them, as tho batter will rise to tho top in baking. Servo witli c'innaTuon sauce. Time, twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Empress Pudding (another way).—Put enough fresh milk in a well-lined saucepan to pulp half a pound of rice. Let the rice soften over a very slow fire, and, when quite done, add two ounces of butter and stir till it is dissolved. Set the rice by to cool: when it has cooled, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Put a layer of rice into a dish lined with puff paste, place a layer of any kind of jam over it, and fill up the dish alternately with rice and jam. This pudding may be eaten cold, in which case it should be served with a boiled custard poured over it. Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six or more persons. Endclifife Buns.—Take eighteen ounces of flour, six ounces of sugar, four ounces of butter, half an ounce of baking-powder, one egg, six ounces of currants or sultana raisins, and half a pint of new milk. Eub the powder into the flour, then rub in the butter, adding the sugar, currants, .or raisins, the egg—well beaten—and the milk. Mix all together, and bake in tins in a rather hot oven, tii'st sifting over the buns a little powdered sugar. Endive.—This plant has long been cul- tivated as a garden vegetable. The cut-leaved or " curled" endive is preferred for the table in this country, but the dwarf white Bata^dan endive is much more delicate and agreeable to the palate. The seed is usually sown in Britain from the middle of May to the end of June, and by a little care plants may be kept fit for use almost all the winter. rSENCH ENDrVB. EKGLISH ENDIVE. Endive (French method) .—Take half a dozen heads of endive for a dish, and choose those which are fresh and yellow. Strip away the outer leaves, and cut off the stalks to separate the other leaves, and wash the endive in several waters. This vegetable needs to bo wa.shed with scrupulous care, because it usually contains a good deal of grit. Tlirow tlie endive into a stewpan hidf filled with boiling water slightly salted, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly till the endive is tender. It will take about twenty-five minutes. Drain it in a colander, press all tlio moisture from it, and either chop it very finely or rub it thnjiigli a wire sieve. The latter method is to be preferred. Melt half an ounce of butter in a clean stewjjan, mix half an ounce of flour with it, beat it to a paste, add salt and pejjper, a tea-spoonful of white sugar, and a gill of cream. Stir the sauce till smooth and thick, put in the endive, and keep stirring till the pulp is firm enough to bo piled upon a dish, then serve with fried sippets round the endive. If liked, broth can be used instead of cream in making the sauce for the endive. Time to boil the endive, twenty- five minutes; to stew it with the sauce, about ten minutes. Probable cost of endive, 2d. per head. Sufficient for five or six persons. Endive, Dressed. — There are many varieties of endive: the green curled eort is principally used for salads. Those who like the bitterness of this vegetable will find it, when cooked according to the recipes here given, a wholesome and agreeable change during the summer. The green leaves may be boiled Uke those of any other vegetable, only changing the water twice to take off the bitterness. After boiling till tender, throw the endive into cold water for ten minutes; then squeeze out the water, and when dry chop and stew with butter, gravy, or, like spinach, beat it smooth, and serve round cutlets, or alone, with bread sippets as a garnish. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Id. to 2d. per head. Endive, Dressed,for Second Course. —Use salted water plentifully for this vege- table. Plunge the heads, after remo\Tng the green leaves, into it. When thoroughly free from grit and insects, boil qmckly, drain, and finely chop them. Put a pint of good stock or veal gravy into a stewpan, with half a dozen heads so prepared; add a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar and a little salt, and stew till tender. When ready to serve, thicken with butter and flour, and stir in a table-spoonful of lemon- j uice, or add a little Espagnole sauce, and serve with a fricandeau of veal; or with poached eggs on the top. Time, half an hour to boil; about five minutes to simmer in gravy. Probable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Sufficient for three or four persons. Endive, Stewed.—Strip off the outer green leaves from half a dozen heads of endive. Use salted water plentifully, to dislodge the insects; soak the heads in it, then drain, and boil them twenty-five minutes in water salted slightly. Have ready a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and when the endive has been squeezed dry and the butter melted, put it into the pan, and add a salt-spoonful of salt, pepper, and a gill of cteam. Let all get thoroughly hot, and move tho contents of the pan while heating. Pro- bable cost. Id. to 2d. per head. Sufficient for three or four persons. Endive, with Veal Gravy.--Strip off the outer leaves from half a dozen heads of endive, and blanch the heads by throwing them into hot water and then into cold. Drain well,