IBI ISI (331 ) of water, a gill of white wine, some sliced horseradish, two blades of mace, two bay- leaves, whole pepper, allspice, and a little salt. Let it get cold, and pour it over the fish. Time, ten minutes to boil. Irish Sandwiches—Cut the meat in very thin slices from partridges, grouse, or any game that has been roasted, and shred some celery. Lay the meat on delicately thin fresh toast—it it should be crisp, and not tough—strew celery over, and season well with Tartar sauce. Serve in squares, and on a napkin. Irish Seed Cake.— Beat nine eggs, yolks and whites, until they are light, and turn eight oimces of fresh butter to a cream, adding by degrees a little rose-water until a quarter of a pint has been used. Mix with the butter a pound of finely-powdered sugar, and add the beaten eggs. Beat the mixture, and dredge into it three-quarters of a pound of well-dried flour and nearly a quarter of a pound of rice flour. Flavour with essence of any kind Hked, and scatter in an ounce of caraway-seeds and some pounded bitter almonds. Bake in a quick oven. The baking-tin should be lined with paper, and both tin and paper must be well buttered. Time, an hour and a half to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Irish Soup, or Balnamoon Skink.— In many parts of Ireland a good joint of meat is a thing to be wished for, but not to be obtained at short notice. Poultry is always to be had in plenty, and very cheap, hence, on an emergency, two or three fowls may be expe- ditiously put into a pot to boil until their juices are thoroughly extracted and the broth is rich and good. One or more of the fowls, if to be served separate, may be trussed as for boiling, and removed as soon as done, but they are best cut up when intended only for soup. When well boiled, strain the soup through a colander into a clean saucepan. Season with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chives, and chopped young onions. Add celery, lettuce, and, if in season, a few green peas. Stew until the vegetables are tender. A liasion of two beaten eggs and a cup of cream will greatly improve the soup. The trussed fowl is sometimes served in the tureen with the soup. When sent to table separately, thicken some of the broth, and pour it over the fowl. Irish Stew.—Take from two to three pounds of chops from the best end of a neck of mutton, and pare away nearly all the fat, for an Irish Stew should not be greasy. If liked a portion of the breast may be cut into squares and used, but a neck of mutton is the best joint for the purpose. Take as many potatoes as will amount after peeling to twice the weight of the meat. Slice them, and slice also eight large onions. Put a layer of mixed potatoes and onions at the bottom of a stowpan. Place the meat on this and season it plentifully with pepper and slightly with salt. Pack the ingre- dients closely, and cover the meat with another layer of potato and onion. Pour in as much water or stock as will moisten the topmost layer, cover the stewpan tightly, and let its contents simmer gently for three hours. Be careful not to remove the lid, as this will let out the flavour. Irish Stew (another way).—Put some neat chops, cut from the neck of mutton, into a stew- pan; they should be trimmed, and the bones shortened a little. Braise them for half an hour, and season with pepper, salt, and a few chopped mushrooms. Butter a mould, and thickly line it with mashed potatoes ; lay in the chops, and bake. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and pour in some good gravy through an ojjening on the top. Time, about half an hour to bake. Two dozen potatoes ynR be qai^e sufficient for this dish. Irish Stew, Australian {see Australian Irish Stew). Irish Stew, Kidney {see Kidney Irish Stew). Irish Tripe.—Procure the tripe quite fresh, cut it neatly into pieces two inches broad and four inches long, stew them for an hour in milk and water and a little salt; add onions, and boU them until tender. Put the tripe on a dish, thicken some of the sauce with flour and butter, and mix in a little mustard and the j onions, which should be first drained and beaten through a sieve. Make the sauce hot, and serve it poured over the tripe. If liked, a little lemon- juice may be added. Time, an hour to stew tripe alone; about three-quarters of an hour with onions. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Irish Usquebagh Cordial.—Stone a pound of the best blue raisins, and rub off the rind of a Seville orange on limips of sugar. Bruise the raisins in a mortar, with a quarter of an ounce each of cloves and cardamoms and a grated nutmeg. Put these ingredients into a jar, and pour over them half a gallon of French brandy or flavourless whiskj"^; add the sugar and half a pound of sugar candy (brown), also a little colouring matter, tincture of safEron or spinach-juice. Stir or shake the jar every day. Time to infuse, two weeks. Irish "Walnut Ketchup.—Extract the inner white part of some green walnuts, and, after pounding them thoroughly, strain oft' the juice to make it clear, let it stand for twelve hours, and strain again. Add to each pint of juice a large onion, two ounces of horseradish, sliced, half an ounce of shallots, a clove of garlic, half a pint of vinegar, and half a pound of anchovies. These ingredients being well mixed, boil for two hours. When cold, strain the liquor until quite clear, then add to each pint of the ketchup half an ounce of spice (mace, cloves, nutmeg, and whole black pepper in equal quantities), two wine-glassfuls of port, and a quarter of a glass of soy. BoU again for three-quarters of an hour, but do not strain the liquor, as the spices must be distributed in the several bottles in which it is placed. The saucepan must always be kept closely covered, or the delicious aromatic flavour will evaporate. Pour the ketchup into a jar, and cover till cold, when it can be poured into bottles, but the greatest attention must be paid to their being clean and dry. Seal the corks. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Isinglass and Gelatine Jelly.—When .lelly IS to be made for the table, isinglass and golatme are frequently used instead of calf's-foot