ELD ( 203 ) ELE is the best guide for this culinary process. No time can be specified, as much depends on the steadiness of the person manipulating. EOO WHISKS. Elder.—The common elder-tree is found in all parts of Britain. Its berries and flowers are much used, as may be seen from the following recipes. We may mention, in addition, that an odorous water, used as a perfume, is prepared by distilling the flowers. Elder-wine is specially in demand about Christmas-time. It is gene- rally di'unk hot or mulled. In some parts of Germany, the poorer classes use the berries as an ingredient in soup. Elderberry Ketcliup, for Pish Sauce.—Pick a pint of ripe elderberries from the stalks, and put them into an earthen jar. Pour over them a pint of boiling vinegar, and let them remain in a cool oven aU night. Strain the liquor from the berries without squeezing them, and put it into a saucepan with an oimce of shallots, a blade of mace, an inch of whole ginger, a tea-spoonful of cloves, and a tea- spoonful of peppercorns. Boil for six or eight minutes, and bottle the ketchup, when cold, with the spices. Sufficient for one pint and a Wq]f of ketchup. Probable cost, Is. ELDBBBERKT. Elder Brandy.—Pick the berries when fully ripe. Have ready a press for drawing off the juice, and four hair-cloths somewhat broader than the press; lay one above another, having a hair-cloth between each layer, which must be laid very thin and pressed a little at first, and then more, till the press be drawn as close as possible. Now take out the berries, and press all the rest in like manner. Next take the pressed berries, break out all the lumps, put them into an open- headed vessel, and add as much liquor as wiU just c«ver them. Let them infuse for seven or eight days, then put the juice first drawn into a cask proper for it to be kept in, and add two gallons of malt spirits to every twenty gallons of elder-juice, which will effectually preserve it from becoming sour for two years at least. A Httle sugar and a few cloves make a great im- provement in the brandy. Elder-flower and Tarragon Vinegar. —Fill a bottle with the elder-flowers, and pour upon them as much vinegar as they will take let them rest for a fortnight, when the vinegar may be strained and put into bottles of smaller size. The fresh-gathered leaves of any sweet herb may be infused, and their flavour extracted in the same manner. Elder Rob.—Extract the juice from some elderberries by putting the fruit into a jar and setting it in water to boil until the berries are soft. Put half a poxind of good brown sugar with every pint of juice thus extracted, and boil the sugar and juice for a whole hour, skimming the liquid as it rises. Elder Tops, To Pickle.—About six inches of the tops of young elder sprouts, if cut at the right time—in the middle of April—will make a good pickle. The sprouts should be first blanched in boiling water, then pickled in vinegar, adding salt and white pepper. Elder Wine.—Take quite ripe berries, and after stripping them from the stalks, steep them for five or six days in a tub of water, pressing them frequently during the time. Squeeze out the juice, and pass it through a fine sieve into the vessel in which it is to be boiled; add to each gallon three pounds of good brown sugar, and to every four gallons half a pound of ginger, two ounces of cloves, and an ounce or more of allspice. Boil for rather more than half an hour, then pour the wine into a tub or open cask, put with it some yeast on a piece of toast, and cover it over to work for four or five days, at the end of which time skim and remove it to the cask to ferment. The vent-peg must be loose until the fermentation has ceased, when the cask may be tightly closed, and the wine, after two months' rest, will be good, but better a month or two later. A quart of brandy thrown into the cask when it is about to be sealed up wlU greatly improve the wine. Elder Wine (another way).—Boil twenty- five pounds of elderberries in eleven gallons of water for one hour, and add to them an ounce of allspice and two ounces of ginger. When boiled the full time, allow four pounds of sugar to a gallon: put the sugar into a tub, and throw the boiling liquid over it, straining and pressing all the juice from the fruit. Add a quarter of a pound of cream of tartar, and let the liquid stand in the same tub for two days; then remove it to a cask, and cover the bunghole with a tile. Stir the liquid every alternate day, and fill up as it wastes. When the fermentation has ceased, close up the barrel, and when it has rested four months, bottle for use. Brandy may be added when the cask is closed. Probable cost, 38. per gallon. Elecampane, or Candy Cake.—Boil any quantity of loaf sugar to candy heightf