OLD ( 464 ) OLI Bubstanco liirf?oly niiido uso of as food. Tho following tiiblo, for wliich wo aro indebted to tho loiirned compiler of the Catalogue of tho Food Collection now at Bethnal Greeu Museum, shows tho quantities of oil or fat in 100 lbs. of tho more conmion articles of food:— Vegetable Food. Potatoes 0-2 Wheat Flour 1-2 Bai-ley Meal 0-3 Oatmeal 5-7 Indian Meal 7-7 Eye '. 1-0 Peaa 20 Rico 0-7 Beana 2-0 Cocoa 50-0 liontils 2-0 Buckwheat 1-0 Tea 4-0 Coffeo ...... 12-0 ' Animal Food, Itilk ' 23-5 Pork 50-0 Veal 16-0 Beef 30-0 Mutton 40-0 Fish 7-0 Cheese 25-0 Old Currant Sauce, for Sucking- Pig, Venison, &C. — Boil two ounces of picked and clean cm-rants and three cloves in a quarter of a ijint of water for five minutes; add an oimce of fresh butter, a quarter of a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and two glasses of port. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire until it boUs, then take out the cloves, and serve im- mediately. Time, a quarter of an hour. Pro- bable cost, 2d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Olio.—An oho is a Spanish dish, and con- sists of three or four difierent kinds of meat and vegetables stewed and served together. The fdlowing is a simple recipe:—Truss a chicken for boiling, brown it lightly in a little hot butter, then drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pound and a half of mutton, a pound and a half of veal, and a pound of good rump-steak, all slightly browned. Add a pound of streaky bacon, and pour in as much boiling water as will cover the whole. Simmer gently for an hour, then add half a head of celery, a bunch of parsley, a dozen young onions, half a dozen carrots and turnips, and a pint of green peas, if they are in season, and boil gently until the vegetables are cooked enough. Salt and pepper must be added as required, and a small clove of garlic, if the flavour is liked. It is better to take out the bacon before the meat is served. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Olio of Vegetables.—Slice half a dozen carrots, turnips, and onioas, and throw them into boiling water slightly salted. Let them boU a quarter of an hour, then put with them two heads of cabbage cut into halves, and two pounds of potatoes, and boil all together until they are soft. Drain them from the water, and mince them finely. Mix with them half a pound of spinach, a little salt and pepper, an ounce and a half of fresh butter, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Cover the saucepan closely and stow tho vegetables gently for half an hour! Before serving, thicken them by stirring in with them a piece of butter rolled in flour. The vegetables may bo varied according to tho season. Green peas, lettuces, cucumber, spring onions, spinach, &c., may bo cooked in the same way. Probable cost, according to tho vegetables used. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Olive Oil.—The principal oil used as food, obtained from the vegetable kingdom, is that of tho olive. " Provence oil, the i)roduce of Aix, is the most esteemed. Florence oil is the \irgin oil expressed from the ripe fruit soon after being gathered; it is imported in flasks sur- rounded by a kind of network, formed by the leaves of a monocotyledonous plant, and packed in haK chests; it is that used at table under the name of salad oil." Olive Pie, Beef.—Make a good force- meat of equal parts of suet and finely-grated bread-crumbs, with plenty of finely-minced parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Cut thin shoes four inches long and two wide from the inside of a fillet of beef. Spread a layer of the forcemeat upon each slice, and roll it up securely. Place the rolls side by side in a deep pie-dish, and pile them high in the centre. Pour half a pint of gravy over them, line the edges of the dish with good crust, place a cover of the same on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. If it is wished the forcemeat can be omitted, and a small piece of fat put inside the rolls instead; the meat wiU then require seasoning with pepper and salt. A table-spoonful of ketchup and a table-spoonful of wine will improve the gravy. Time, about an hour and a quarter to bake the pie. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Olive Pie, Veal.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with good puff-paste. Cut two pounds of the fillet of veal into thin sHces a quarter of an inch thick, four inches long, and two wide. Make a forcemeat with four ounces of minced veal, four ounces of finely-shred suet, foui" ounces of grated bread-crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a tea-spoon- ful of mixed sweet herbs, four drachms of salt, two drachms of pepper, two drachms of pow- dered mace, two drachms of grated lemon-rind, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Season the shoes of veal with a Httlo pepper and salt, place a slice of fat bacon upon each, and a Uttle of the forcemeat, and roU them up neatly and securely. Make tho forcemeat which remains into balls. Place these amongst the oUves in a pie-dish, pour half a pint of nicely-seasoned gravy over them, line the edges of the dish with a good crust, place a cover of the same over the top, brush tho pie with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. The addition of a table- spoonful of lemon-juice and a glass of sherry, or a few sHced mushrooms, would greatly im- prove the gravy. This pie is good either cold or hot. Time, an hour and a half to bake.