( 271 ) GBA QUA hot as possible. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy, Beef, Plain—Cut some coarse pieces of beef into dice, strew a little salt over them, and put them in a closely-covered sauce- pan, by the side of a gentle fire, until the juice flows from the meat and glazes at the bottom of the pan. Pour in as much boiling stock or water as will cover the meat, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Probable cost of beef, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, half a pound of beef for a pint of gravy. Gravy, Bon Vivant's Sauce for {sometimes called Epicurean Sauce).—Mince two ounces of shallots very finely, and put them into a bottle with six table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, six of mushroom ketchup, four of soy, four of port, a dozen peppercorns, eight cloves, a quai-ter of an ounce of cayenne, .and three-quarters of a pint of vinegar. Cork the bottle closely, and let it remain for three weeks, shaking it occasionally. At the end .of that time strain carefuUy, keep it in bottles securely stoppered, and store for use. A table-spoonful will flavour half a pint of sauce sufficiently for the taste of most persons. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for a pint and a half of sauce. Gravy, Brown, Cheap and Good- Toast a slice of bread on both sides until hard and darkly browned, but it must not bum. Cut two large onions into thin slices, fry them in a little dripping or butter till brightly browned, and pour over them a quart of boiling water or stock. Put in the toast, and any trimmings of meat, or poultry, or bones from dressed joints, chopped into small pieces, that are to be had, with a bunch of savoury herbs. Simmer gently until the gravy is thick and good. Strain, add salt and pepper, and a table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, and put aside for use. Time, about three hours to simmer. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for one pint of gravy. Gravy, Brown, Boux for Thicken- ing.—Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a scrupulously clean saucepan, melt it slowly, and add very gradually half a poimd . of flour. The flour should be shaken in from a dredging-box, and stirred with a wooden spoon until the roux is perfectly smooth and a bright brown colour. The edge of the spoon should be pressed rather heavily on the bottom of the saucepan, to prevent burning, which would cer- tainly spoil the roux. Though this thickening is best when freshly made, it will keep for a long time if poured into jars, and the surface kept entire. It is an improvement to make it with browned flour—that is, flour which has been kept in a slow oven imtil it is lightly browned all through. When this is used, the roux need not be so long on the fire. It may be used with either hot or cold gravy. If the gravy be hot, the roux should be moistened gradually with it off the fire ; if cold, it should be stirred on the fire till the gravy boils. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. A dessert-spoonful of roux will thicken a pint of gravy. Gravy, Brown, Soup (made from bones and trinmiings).—Take the bones of dressed meat—beef is the best—which weighed before cooking about twelve pounds. Break them up into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan, with five quarts of cold water. Bring the liquid to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently, but continuously, for six hours. Strain through a sieve, and leave the soup until the next day. Eemove the fat from the top, leave any sediment there may be at the bottom, and pour the soup gently into a clean saucepan, with two carrots, one turnip, three onions, all sliced, a head of celery, or half a drachm of pounded celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bundle of sweet herbs, and eight peppercorns. Bring it to a boil, skim it carefully, and add a dessert- spoonful of salt, which wiU assist the scum in rising. Draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain it two or three times, and, to clear it, stir into it when hot, the whites of two eggs, whisked thoroughly, and mixed with four tea-spoonfuls of cold water, and afterwards with a little of the soup. Beat this into the soup over the fire, and keep whisk- ing till it boils. Skim carefully till it is quite clear. Add three table-spoonfuls of Liebig'a Extract of Meat, and, if necessary, a little browning {see Browning), but great care must be taken with this, or the flavour of the soup will be spoilt. This soup' is wholesome, nou- rishing, and cheap, and though it cannot be said that a soup which costs 4d. per quart is quite equal to one which costs Is. 4d., yet, if the directions are closely followed, the result will be decidedly satisfactorj'. If any lady would take the trouble to try it for herself, she would see that it can be done, but, unfortunately, there exists amongst ordinary domestic servants such a prejudice against anything economical that, if the soup were left to them, there is a danger that it would not be properly attended to, and, perhaps, be boiled hard one hour and stopped entirely another, or, what is worse, not carefully skimmed as it is coming to a boil. It is a good plan to brown a small quantity of meat— say a quarter of a pound of beef and a quarter of a pound of veal—draw out the juice with a little cold water, and then simmer these with the bones. The soup will keep better if vegeta- bles are not boiled in it until it is about to be used. It should certainly :be made the day before it is wanted for use. Probable cost, about 4d. per quart. Sufficient to make two quarts of soup. Gravy, Brown, Soup (made fi-om fresh meat).—Take half a pound of lean ham, two pounds of the shin of beef, and two poimds of veal. Cut the meat from the bones, break the latter into small pieces, and, if there be any marrow, lay it at the bottom of a deep saucepan. If there be no marrow, use a quarter of a pound of butter. Put in the meat (which should be cut up) and bones, cover closely, and" place the saucepan on the fire. When well browned on one side, turn the meat over on the other, and take care it does not bm-n. When the meat is thoroughly browned, add a pint of cold water to draw out the juice. In a quarter of an hour