KRI KIT ( 850 ) when these are well mixed, add by degrees a tea-spooiif ul of salt, or powdered lump 8U!,'ar, and the same of made mustard. Whoa ihciso ini^ro- dient8 are smoothly united, add very gradu?illy three table-spooufuls of vinegar, rul) it with the other ingrodiduts till it is thoroughly incor- porated with thorn; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the sabid with it. Let the siiuce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to bo eaton. If the liorbs be young, freshly gathered, neatly trimmed, and drained dry, and the sauce maker ponders patiently over those directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame of being a very accomplished salad dressor. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a good-siz-d bowl of salad. Kitchener's Store Sauce. Super- lative (for iish, poultry, game, &c.).—Take a pint of claret or port, a pint of mushroom ketchup, half a pint of walnut or lemon pickle, four ounces of pounded anchovies, an ounce of fresh lemon-peel pared very thin, an ounce of scraped horseradish, an ounce of finely minced shallots, half an ounce of powdered black pep- per, half an ounce of allspice, a drachm of caj'enne—or three drachms of curry-powder— and a drachm of bruised celery-seed. Put these into a wide-mouthed bottle, and let them remain for a fortnight, shakmg them every day. At the end of that time strain, and i^ut into small bottles for use. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient, a table- spoonful for a quarter of a pint of melted butter or gravy. Klosse.—These dishes, which are purely German, are composed of small light baUs, boiled in water, gravy, or milk, and served hot, either as a garnish for other dishes or by themselves. They are generally composed of the crxxmb of bread, grated or soaked, potatoes, or rice and eggs, and they may be almost indefinitely varied with fish, meat, poultry, herbs, Kver, fruit, &c. In malring them, care should be taken to handle the klosse as lightly as possible, and to keep dipping the fingers in cold water whilst shaping them into balls. They should be dropped gently into the boiling liquid, simmered gently for eight or ten minutes, and served immediately they are taken out. The following is a simple recipe for klosse:—Take six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, season them with half a tea-spoonful of salt and a little nutmeg, and mix them with four ounces of fresh butter, which has been beaten to a cream. Add three well-beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, shape into small balls, as they will swell in cooking, and drop them gently from a wet spoon into boiling water. _ Serve as soon as they are taken out, either in soup, or as a garnish for vegetables; or they may be piled in a pyramid in the middle of a hot dish, with fried potatoes round them. Time, eight or ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Klosse Bread, with Thyme.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it a table-spoonful of tlour, the well-beaten yolka of four eggs, twelve; ounces of grated roll, and a little salt and nutmeg. Add sufficient powdered thyme to season, according to taste. aiix thoroughly; and when ready for cooking add the whites of the four eggs, beaten to a linn froth. Shape the klosse into small ballij ahout the size of a walnut, and di-op iheju from a wet spoon into boiling salted water. Simmer gijutly, and servo immediately they are taken out. Time, fifteen minutes to boil. ProhaWo cost, lOd. Sufficient for lialf a dozen persona, Klosse, Seasoned (to be eaten with eggs and bacon).—Chop a snxall onion as finely as possible. Mix with it two ounces of fat bacon, finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sago. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with three-quarters of a pound of grated bread- crumbs, a table-spoonful of flour, a little pepper and nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of four e^gs. When ready for cooking, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm fioth. Br.il in salt and water, and serve piled m the middle of a hot dish, with fried rashers of bacon and poached eggs round. Time, fifteen minutes to boQ. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Kneaded Cakes.—Mix a quarter of a pound of currants with three-quarters of a pound of flour, and a pinch of salt. Slake up into a paste with some thick cream, knead well, roU to the thickness of half an inch, cut it into rounds with the top of a small teacup, and bake on a griddle, or in a brisk oven. If no cream is at hand, good cakes may be made by roUing out a poimd of puff paste to the thick- ness of a penny piece. Strew some currants and a little moist sugar over half of these, place the other half over them, and bake as before. These cakes are best when served hot. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost. Is., if made with cream ; 8d. with pastry. Sufficient for about two dozen cakes. Kouglauffe (German).—Beat ten ounces of fresh butter to a cream ; add a quarter of a poimd of fine flour, a pinch of salt, a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon-jjeel, two ounces of poimded sugar, and two eggs; stir all briskly together for ten minutes. Mix in by degrees three-quarters of a pound of flour and two a iditional eggs, and keep beating the paste quickly with a wooden spoon as they are put in. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of German yeast in a quarter of a pint of thick cream, which has been slightly warmed for the purpose. Make a hollow in the middle of the paste, pour in the cream and yeast, and work all thoroughly to a smooth batter. Butter a quart mould, place some blanched and sliced almonds round the inside at equal distances, and bake in a moderate oven. Do not k t the cake burn whilst baking. Time, bake until a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom, and when taken out be quite dry—say from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for a quart mould. Kringles.—Warm two ounces of fresh butter slightly, but not so as to melt it. ilix it v/ith the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, well beaten; add two ounces of sifted sugar, lialf a pound of flour, and a pinch of salt, and knead to a smooth paste,