pRtr PBU ( 234 ) lightly, making it into a smooth firm paste, with wiitor. KoU out twice; tho quiclior this is douo tho lightor will bo tlio pusto. Time, u quax-tor of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 6J. SulKciont for six or seven persons. Fruit Sauce for Puddings.- Hoil in a quarter of a pint of water liuubl*' that ([uaiitity of fruit (raspberries, strawberries, or currants do well for this sauce), and four ounces of good sugar. Take off tho scum as it rises, and when the juico looks rich, and is thickish, strain, and serve it over the pudding. This sauce may bo made from preserved fruits, when fruit is out ot season. Fruit Souflae.—Split, peel, and stone a dozen tine ripe apricots, put them into a preserving-pan, with half a pint of water and half a pound of sifted sugar. Keep them simmering gently, until the apricots can he pulped and heaten through a fine sieve; then mix together four ounces of floui-, and half a pint of cream; add it to the pulped apricots, with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until it hoils. Take the mixture off the fire, and stir in six beaten yolks of eggs, and lastly and lightly nine whites, whisked to a firm froth. Have ready a soufiie dish, with a band of paper above to allow of its rising a great deal, which it \vill do if the above instruc- tions are carefully carried out. Bake in a moderate heat, and tirni the dish about that all parts of the souffle may be alike. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Fruit, Soup of Cheese-gourd.—Stew the fleshy part of a cheese-gourd in butter, and mix it over a slow fire until it be of the consistence of thick cream. Add weak broth ' or water to it, and flavour with sugar and salt. To two quarts of water, put three or four pounds of gourds. Cover the bottom of a tureen with toasted bread, cut into dice, and pour the soup on the bread. Fruit, Soup of Spring. —The better class of pulpy vegetables are sometimes called in cookery spring-fruit, such are rhubarb, vegetable-marrow, gourd, cucumber, and pump- kin ; they may all be dressed with a little cream, milk, butter, or stock, and form a nice delicate dish, very healthful, if not very nutritious. Early spring rhubarb, cut into pieces, and simmered with a few small onions, in some good stock, a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and a thickening of butter roUed in flour, will give a zest. The rhubarb should be peeled and blanched. One bundle of Victoria rhubarb will make two quarts of soup; skim while boiling, and serve strained over toasted bread sippets. Fruit, Stewed. — Every one who has lived on the continent must have appreciated the various compotes of fruits that are so readily and easily prepared, and must have recognised their superiority over stewed fruits- prepared by the English method. Almost all kinds of fruit may be treated in the foreign style, and if served with macaroni or rice, are excellent, and much more wholesome than pastry tarts. The principal point lies in the preparation of the syrup; the best refined sugar should be used, but a« the fruits are for use within the next two or three ditys, they du not requue much, wliich is very ecoiiomicul. Fruit Suet Pudding.—Take equal quantities of fi(jur and finoly-iji'epaicd Ijrcad- crunibs, a (juarter of a pound oi eacli, put tliom into a bowl; add four ounces of slirod suet and two ounces of sugar; moisten with a cup ol milk, and beat until smooth; then sprinkle and mix into the batter four ounces of well-washea currants, with a toa-s]JOonful of grated ginger and one of salt. Boil in a floured cloth, not in a mould. Time, two hours to boil. Probable cost, 7d. Suflicient for three or more persons. Fruit Sweet Sauces.—Stone some plums or cherries, having first washed them in cold water. Break the stones, blanch the ker- nels, and boil them gently in a very httle water. Stew the fruit until quite tender with about a glassful of red wine, and a little cmnamon, powdered. When it is tender, add a piece of bread, toasted, and the water from the kernels, and stew imtil aU can be pulped through a sieve. Sugar may be mixed according to taste, and the sauce may be thinned with wine or water. Fruit Tarts, Preserved.—Line a dish with puff paste, and fill with any kind of pre- served fruit; lay bars across, cut tliem with a tin-cutter; finish off neatly by laying an edging of paste round the border, and ornamenting it tastefully. Bake a very hght brown. Fruit, To Bottle.—Currants, gooseberries, and other fruit may be thus preserved. After freeing them from stalks, put them into wide- mouthed glass bottles, and shake them that the bottles may be full; place the bottles, slightly corked, into a nearly cold oven for four or five hours. When the fruit shrivels, remove it from the oven, and cork the bottles tightly and quickly, tying down securely with leather. Keep in a dry place. Fruit, To Bottle, with Sugar.—Pro- cure the fi'uit dry and sound, and drop it gently into bottles (those -with wide mouths and glass stoppers are the best) ; put the bottles in a kettle of water, but do not wet the corks; let them stay till the fruits are ready to burst, then put in the corks, and wax them over to exclude the air. The bottles must be kept in a drj' place. Gooseberries, plums, currants, can all be done in this way. Fruit, To Candy.—Make a syrup with one pound of good sugar and half a tea-cup- ful of water. When boiling, put in any pre- served fruits, and stir gently until they get crystallised ; then take them out, and dry them in an oven or before the fire, but do not let them get coloured. Fruit, Vol-au-vent of. —This is an exceedingly dehcate branch of cooker^^ and requires much skill and care. A vol-au-vent should be made of "French puff paste" {see Puff Paste, French). Brush the paste over wnth lemon-juice before folding for the last time. Roll out to the desired thickness, and place the paste on a baking-tin. Cut into shnpp with a tin-cutter or plate, and brush the centre with