( 327 ) IND ISfD smooth stiff paste with boiling water, add a little salt, and reduce the thickness as follows:— Boil down four shallots, shred finely, with a wine-glass each of \'inegar and mushi-oom ketchup, and half a glass of anchovy sauce. In ten minutes pour these ingredients, boiling hot, into the basin over the mustard and flour mixture, stirring imtil it is smooth and of the proper consistency. Put a shallot, bruised, into each bottle when stored.. Indian mustard will keep for some time, and is excellent as a break- fast relish. Time, ten minutes to boil. Suffi- cient for a quarter of a pound of mustard. Indian Omelet [see Omelet, Indian^. Indian Oysters, Curried.—Cut a large onion, or two middle-sized ones, into thin slices, and fry them in butter until brown. Dredge into the pan four dessert-spoonfuls of curry- powder, and stir in two more ounces of butter. When the mixture is quite smooth, thin it with half a pint of good warm broth, and keep it stirred until it boils. Put it into a clean stew- pan with the white part of a finely-grated cocoa-nut and a minced sour apple, when it must be again made to boil. Stir imtil the apple is dissolved and the cocoa-nut is tender, then mix a little flour and water as thickening, and when thick add the oysters (a hundred, carefully bearded, with their liquor strained), also the milk of the cocoa-nut, if sweet. Sim- mer until the oysters are hot. Serve on a hot dish, with boiled rice in another. Time, twenty-five minutes to make curry; one minute to stew oysters. Indian Oysters,Curried (another way). —See Oysters, Curried, Indian. Indian Pancake.—Boil half a tea-cupful of rice in milk and beat it to a pulp, add it to three eggs well beaten, sweeten with sugar and flavour with pounded cinnamon. Fry the whole of the mixture in butter. Do not turn the pancake, but when done on one side remove from the pan to the front of the fire to brown the upper side. Strew pounded sugar over, and divide the pancake into four parts before sending it to table. Time, seven or eight minutes to frj'. Probable cost, 6d. Indian Pickle. —Place in a large dish a white cabbage cut into eight divisions, haK a poimd of. small branches of cauliflower, equal quantities of gherkins, French beans, radish- pods, and small onions, also nasturtiums, capsi- cums, chilies, and any other suitable vegetables. Powder them well with salt, and let them remain for a day or two. Drain dry, and put them into a jar, with sufficient vinegar to cover: the vinegar, having been previously boiled, should be poured into the jar cold. Be careful to let the vinegar cover the vegetables, or the pickle will not keep, and to mix the spice equally among the vegetables before the vinegar is poured oyer them. Use spice as follows—the quantity given is for a gallon of vinegar—three ounces of gmger sliced, the same old black and long pepper mixed, twenty shallots, peeled, one clove of garlic, or more if the flavour is not objected to, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, a | quai-ter of a pound of flour of mustard, two ' ounces of salt, an ounce of turmeric, and two ounces of mustard-seed. Fruit, such as green grapes, codling apples, &c., may be added at any time as they appear in season; but the proportions of spice and vinegar must be attended to, and any addition to the jar should be first soaked an hour or two in vinegar before being added. When no more additions are to be made, put the pickles into small jars, boil the vinegar, pour it at once over the pickles so as to cover them, and, when cold, tie down with bladder. If the above directions are attended to this pickle may be kept good many years. When more spice and vinegar are required, mix the spice with a little of the cold vinegar first, and then boil it. When boiled, pour it hot over the pickles. Indian Pickle (another way).—Cut two cauliflowers and two finn cabbages into quarters, sprinkle them well with salt, and let them lie in the sun for three days. Soak one pound of ginger with two cloves of garlic in salt and water for one day, drain, and dry them also in the sun. When all is ready, put the vegetables into a large stone jar, and add one gallon of vinegar, twelve ounces of crushed peppercorns, one pint of powdered or bruised mustard-seed, and two ounces of turmeric. Cover the jar tightly with bladders, and in six months, if the above directions have been attended to, the pickle will be fit for use. Indian Pickle Sauce.—Fry an onion until brown in butter, remove it from the stew- pan, and stir in a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder, and a table-spoonful of pickle vinegar. Strain and add the sauce to a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter. Cut pickles into dice, and serve them in the sauce. Indian Pilau {see Pilau, Indian). Indian Pilau, Plain.—Cut a fowl into neat pieces, remove the skin, and fry them in a stewpan, with four or five ounces of butter. Take out the fowl, and mix in a table- spoonful of curry-powder, a little salt, and some Indian pickles cut into fine strips; mangoes, however, are preferable, if they are at hand. Return the cut-up fowl to the pan and set the whole to stew very leisurely by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour. Have ready about a pound of well-boiled rice: it should be dry, so that the grains may separate one from the other. Pile it high in the middle of a dish, on which arrange the fowl, and serve with the sauce poured on the top and round the dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pro- bable cost, 4s. 3d. Indian Pilau, Real.—Boil a fowl or a piece of meat (about three pounds of veal wUl do), and reserve the liquor in which it is boUed. Put four ounces of butter into a stewpan, slice a couple of onions, and fry these, with a few cloves and a small bit of cinnamon, until the onions are slightly coloured, then stir in three-quarters of a pound of rice. Stir with a fork, until the rice has imbibed the butter, when pour in the reserved liquor from the fowl, and enough veal broth to reach two inches above the rice ; keep it over a gentle" fire until rather tender. ' Clear the rice a little from the centre, and place the