cabbell's cookery. xlviii has been cut, when the knife separates tlie wing-bone from the merry-thought, the bone where it is divided should look a little pink; thin will show that the bird has not been dried up. When we come to small birds, like woodcock and snipe, we must be still more careful of over-roasting, as it is a cruel thing to spoil such expensive delicacies owing to a little carelessness. It is difficult to lay down any exact time—so much depending on the fire—only be sure of one thing, and that is, baste the whole time. Snipe especially should be mther underdone. There is an old saying which cooks would do well to remember, viz., "A well-cooked snipe is one that has only flown onco through the kitchen." Of coui-se this is an extravagant way of saying how very little cooking snipe require. Of course, in serving small game, no delay should take place. Game half cold is not worth eating—and it is apt to lose its heat veiy quickly. Some dishes have special power of retaining heat, such as Irish stew and hasty puddings. Others, seem to lose their heat quickly, and among the latter class we would especially mention roast loin of mutton, which seems to possess the power of getting cold quicker than any other joint I know. We will. now go on to consider what is really another form of roasting, viz., grilling. There is perhaps no better test of a cook than a rump-steak and a boiled potato. If you can get the former black outside and red in, and the latter a floury mass as white as snow that crumbles to pieces on your plate, you may rest assured that the cook thoroughly understood his or her business. The same principles, of course, apply to grilling a chop or steak as in roasting or boiling, the point being as much as possible to surround the meat very quickly with a hard film to keep in the juices and flavour. For grilling it is essential, therefore, to have a perfectly clear fii'e, and also to place the chop or steak near the fire at starting. It is obvious, too, that the very first principles of cookery are overlooked if the cook is foolish enough to stick a fork into the steak or chop to turn it. By this means you commit the unpardonable crime of letting out the graw. We have, however, already fully described in page xii. the principles to be observed in the use of the gridiron. It wUl always be found best to have one gridiron for meat and another for fish. In grilling kidneys, also, it is best to remove them every now and then, and dip them into a little hot fat if there is any handy. Very often it will be found that those who prefer meat " giilled" also have a partiality for meat "devilled." What, then, is the difierence between an ordinary mutton chop grilled and a mutton chop devilled] Generally, the only difierence is that some black or cayenne pepper has been sprinkled over the chop during the gi'illing; but there are several kinds of sauces that may be called devil sauce. I will mention two—for the first of which I am indebted to the late Mr. Francatelli, and for the second to Mons. Bossard, the famous cook at St. Peter's College, Cambridge. Francatelli's recipe is as follows :—Chop three shallots fine, and place them in a Pmall stew|)an Avith two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar and a pinch of cayenne pepper; boil these together for three minutes; then add half a pint of thin, strong, brown gravy and a table-spoonful of tomato sauce; boil again, and finish by stirring in a small pat of anchovy butter. This sauce is suitable for aU kinds of broiled meat, and of course its strength,