ARR ART Arrowroot Sauce. Clear,—liub tho thin rind of a lemon on large lumps of sugar, and put them in a saucepan with a break- fast-cupful of raisin or gooseberry wine. Mix a heaped tea-spoonful of arrowroot with a little water, stir it gradually into the wine, and pour it round tho pudding. Time to boil, ton minutes. Sufficient for four or live persons. Probable coat, 6d. Arrowroot SoufBle.—Mix fonr table- spoonfuls of arrowroot with a cupful of milk. Stir it gradually into a pint of boiling milk, and add two table-spoonfuls of sugar on which the rind of a lemon has been rubbed. Lot it boil for a quarter of an hour, stin-ing all the time. Take it from the fire and let it cool, then stir in tho well-beaton yolks of six eggs. Well oil a plain tin mould, and when everything is ready, whisk the whites to a solid froth, and add them to the rest. Fill the tin three-parts full, and bake for twenty minutes in a good oven. Serve imme- diately. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Arrowroot, To Prepare. —Mix a ■dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water. Pour on it, verj'- gradually, half a pint of water boiled with a little lemon-rind; stir it briskly, and boil for a few minutes. Sweeten it, and add a little sherry or port wine. For infants, a drop of cinnamon-water, or of the essence of caraway-seeds, may be put in. Fresh milk may be substituted for the water, then the wine may be omitted. If there is any fear that the milk is in the slightest degree adulterated, it will be much better to use pre- served milk, if for invalids. In that case no sugar wiU be required. Probable cost, 2d. per pint without the wine. Sufficient for one person. Arrowroot to thicken Sauces.— Arrowroot may be used to thicken sauces for those who object to butter, as invalids often do. Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a little cold water, and stir it into a pint of the boiling liquid. Time to boil, four or five minutes. Probable cost, Id. Sufficient for one pint of sauce. Arrowroot Water.—A Drink for In- valids.—Boil the thinly-peeled rind of a small lemon in a quart of water. Pour it, when boiling, ■over a table-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed with two table-spoonfuls of -wine or "brandy, if these are allowed, if not, with a little cold water ; stir it well, sweeten it slightly, and let it boil again two or three minutes. A little lemon-juice is an improvement. Suffi- cient to make a quart of the liquid. Probable cost, without the wine, 3d. Artichoke Bottoms.—Take a few arti- choke bottoms, dried. Soak them, and boil thorn in sufficient clear stock to cover them. When tender, which may bo ascertained by sticking a fork into them, take them out, let them drain, then put a little forcemeat into each one, and serve them in a napkin. Time to boil, if young, three-quarters of an hour; if ■fully grown, an hour and a half. Sufficient, one for each porson. Probable cost, 3d. each. Artichoke Bottoms, To Pickle.— Parboil the artichokes; pull out the leaves, and do not remove the cliuko. Allow them to cool; put them into picklo-bottles. Boil sufli- ciont vinegar to fill up tlie bottles, adding to every quart of vinegar a dosaert-spounful of salt, a small tea-spoonful of wliite pepper, and a blade of mace. Simmer it for twenty nunutes. Put it aside, and when cold pour it into tho bottles, which nmst be corked closely. Pro- bable cost. Is. for a pint bottle. Artichoke Bottoms, Stewed.—Dried artichoke bottoms should bo soaked for two or three hours in warm water, then boiled in salt and water, and served with white sauce poured over them; or stewed in gravy flavoured with ketchup, salt, and pepper, and thickened with fiour. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour. Artichoke Salad, — Wash thoroughly and quarter some very young artichokes. Re- move the chokes, and eat tliem like radishes, with pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. They taste like nuts, and make a nice relish. Time to prepare, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. each. Artichoke Sauce.—Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan ; let it melt; put into it an onion sliced, haK a head of celerj', a table-spoonful of chopped ham, a pinch of pow- dered cinnamon, one salt-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne. Stir the ingredients constantly over a fire gently for a quarter of an hour, adding more butter, if necessary. Then add to them a pound of Jerusalem artichokes, boiled and beaten to a pulp, and a pint of milk. Boil all together until the sauce is rather thicker than cream. Strain, boU again, and serve hot. Time to boil the ingredients together, ten minutes. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2a. per pint. Sufficient for rather more than a pint of sauce. Artichokes (a la Barigoule).—Wash and trim three or four artichokes; remove the chokes, and fry the top of the leaves and the bottom of the artichokes in hot lard or fat for three or four minutes. Fill the ca\-ities with a forcemeat made with two ounces of finely-shred suet, two ounces of undressed veal free from fat or fibre, two ounces of bread-crumbs, two tea- spooTifuls of chopped parsley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful each of marjoram and thj-me, half a tea-spoonful of chopped shalot, two drachms of s,alt, one of pepper, one of powdered mace, and one of grated lemon-rind. Mix thoroughly; then work them together with the yolk of an egg. Fasten a piece of bacon on the top of each artichoke. Bind them with string or tape to keep them in their proper shape. Put them in a stewpan with brown grav>- sufficient to cover them. Let them stew gently tiU tender; re- move the strings; put them on a dish vcith a little of the gravy, thickened, round them. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four persons. Artichokes, Fried (Ma Gouffc).—Wash and trim three young, freshly-cut artichokes. Cut them into thin slices, and as they are cut throw them into water with a cu])ful of vinogar in it; this is to preserve the colour. Drain