GAM ( 237 ) thorn cool in their own stock, and if rolled press them between dishes, and put a weight on the top. Eeduce the stock to jelly, clarify it, cut it into dice, or rough it, and use it for gar- nishing the dish in which the hirds are served. This method of preparing game involves an unusual amount of trouble. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. •each, but quails are seldom offered for sale. Galantine of Sucking Pig.—Bone a yoimg pig, which, for this purpose, ought not to be more than three weeks old. If this cannot be done at home, the butcher will do it. Lay it flat on the table, back downwards, and spread on it alternate layers of good forcemeat, truffles, pink ham, tongue, or anythrag which wiU look and taste weU when the pig is cut into. Season each layer with pepper and salt, and roll the pig tightly, binding it well with tape. It will be more succulent if a few slices of fat i bacon are fastened on the outside. Wrap it in a pudding-cloth, and simmer it gently in some good veal broth, in which may be put the bones of the pig, a large carrot, a blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, and some sweet herbs. When sufficiently cooked, let it cool in its own liquor, and when taken out, press it under a weight, and let it be eaten cold. Garnish the dish with aspic jeUy, made of the liquor in which it was boiled. Time, three hours to stew the pig. Probable cost, varies from 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for a dozen people, or more. Galantine of Veal.—Remove the bones from a breast of veal, and lay it flat on the j table, skin downwards. Beat it well with a ! chopper, in order to make it roU more easily. | Take the hard-boiled yolks of ten eggs, and i pound them to a paste; mix with them one i dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of ; pepper, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, i a dessert-spoonful of sweet herbs, powdeted, a ; tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and half a salt- i spoonful of pounded mace. Brush the veal | over thickly with beaten egg, and spread the ; paste on evenly, and place over it strips of veal i forcemeat [see Forcemeat of Veal), the hard- i boiled eggs, cut into thin slices, three or four truffles, cleaned and sliced, a few mushrooms, cut into small pieces, and a pound of lean ham. Arrange these prettily on the meat, so that they "will look well when the galantine is cut. Season rather highly, and roll the veal as tightly as possible, binding it with tape. Sew it in a cloth and put it into a saucepan, with some good veal stock, the bones, a carrot, a ; large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of ; sweet herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Let i it simmer gently for six hours, and cool in the liquid. Take it out, put it between two dishes, and place a weight on the top, and let it remain thirty-six hours before being taken out to bo cut. Before dishing, remove the tapes, and garnish the dish with savoury jelly. If pre- ferred, the veal may be very gently baked in the oven. It should then be basted liberally with bacon fat. Galette.—The galette is a favourite cake with the Parisians, and is generally eaten with sweets. This is an excellent recipe. Dissolve one ounce of fresh German yeast m half a pint of lukewarm milk, mix with one pound of bis- cuit flour, and knead for ten minutes. Let it rise near the fire, and keep it warm. In another bowl mix one pound of Vienna flour with eight ounces of butter and seven eggs. Work for ten minutes. Put the two together and work and smack the dough vigorously for twenty minutes till it is spongy. Cover it, put it near the fire, and let it rise for two hours. Make it into balls, place on a floured baking-tin, and let them rise again before the fire. Bake in a quick oven. Galette, Poor Man's.—Rub a quarter of a pound of dripping into one pound of floiir, add a pinch of salt, and make it into a paste with a little milk or water. Roll it out about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, form it into round cakes, about five inches in diameter, brush a little water over the top, and sprinkle sugar on it. Bake in a good oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Suf- ficient for two cakes. Gallino Rennet.—A rennet may be made from the rough skin which lines the gizzards of fowls or turkeys, and the curd obtained by its means is more delicate than that made from calf's rennet. The skin should be well-washed, salted, and covered to protect it from dust, and hung in a cool place to dry. A little piece soaked in a cupful of boiling water for eight hours produces the rennet. Game.—Under the general denomination, " game," are included all wild animals which, are fed for human food; and in nothing is the skill and knowledge of a cook so much displayed as in its management. The peculiar flavour for which it is so much prized is entirely lost if it is not kept and hung for a sufficient length of time sifter being killed. Without this, venison is not so good as mutton, and an ordinary chicken is more palatable than a pheasant or a partridge. Care must, however, be taken that the dish is not offensive when placed upon the table. All game is better for being young. Game should not be washed before cooked. If wiped with a dry cloth, it may be thoroughly cleansed, and the flavour preserved. Game and Macaroni Pie.— Put a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni into a saucepan of boiling stock, and let it simmer till it is tender, but unbroken. Drain, and lay it at the bottom of a deep dish, and on it place a layer of game (either partridges, pheasants, or grouse), cut into neat joints, and stewed until they are three-parts cooked. A few slices of raw, lean ham should be put amongst the game, together with a few chopped mushrooms. Season with pepper and salt. Place a layer of macaroni on the top, grate over it a little Parmesan cheese, and put little lumps of butter here and there. Pour some good gravj', mixed with cream or new milk, over the whole; cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Before serving, add a little more boiling gravy, and milk if required. Time to bake, about one hour. Sufficient, a pie made with one large or three small birds, and a quarter of a poimd of macaroni, for six persons. Probable cost, imcertain,