EGG EGG ( IW) foaming and bubbles disappear, and the beaten eggs assume the appearance which has been •well described as that of a rich boiled custard, your task will have been very well accomplished. Kent's egg-beater is an excellent Uttlo instru- ment which greatly facilitates this process. Eggs, Blancmange of .—Empty four or five large eggs by making a small opening at one end. "Wash them with a little warm water, and then drain dry. Fix them steadily into egg-cups, or put them in a dish fiUed with rice or sago, and fiU ^vith blancmange by the same apertiu-e through which the egg contents escaped. Do not disturb them till quite cold. Carefully remove the shells, and serve the blanc- mange eggs in a glass dish with a coloured cream around them, or shred a lemon or orange into the lightest of fine strips, and lay them amongst it. Eggs, Boiled.—The lightest preparation of eggs is to simply boil them three minutes, when the white will be slightly coagulated, and the yolk will retain its fluid state. A new-laid egg will reqiiire longer boiling than a stale one. Four minutes is not too long to get the white well set of a quite fresh egg, while three minutes will be generally sufficient for one more advanced. Machines may be bought for this purpose, and an egg boiled at the breakfast- table by one of these simple tin machiaes will not faU to give satisfaction. Eggs, Boiled, Hard.—An egg may be boiled hard in from five to ten minutes, but to boil them mealy (which is the lightest prepara- tion next to only boiling them long enough to set the white) allow one whole hour. The experiment should be tested by those who are not aware of the result. It- transforms the hard-boiled egg into a digestible article of food. Eggs, Broiled.—Cut a slice the whole roima of a quartern loaf, toast it lightly, trim the edges, and lay it on a dish before the fire, with some bits of butter placed over it. When this melts, break and spread carefully six or eight eggs on the toast. Have ready a sala- mander, and when the eggs are sufficiently done, squeeze a Heville orange and grate some nutmeg over them. Time, till the eggs are set. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Eggs, Buttered.—Brown some butter ra a frj-ing-pan, and break five eggs upon a dish, as if for poaching, with a seasoning of salt and nutmeg; pour some of the butter, in its boiling state, over them^ and move them gently to get all the butter about them; put the dish by the fire to keep hot, and finish browning the eggs with a red-hot shovel if you have no salamander. Time to brown butter, &c., about ten minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for one dish. Eggs, Buttered (another way).—Put three ounces of butter into a basin, place it in boiling water, and stir till molted; add eight eggs, well beaten, and pour both together into a well-lined saucepan. When the eggs and butter have been held long enough over a gentle fire to warm, throw them back into the basin and again into the saucepan ; do this two W three times, that they may get thoroughly I blended. Keep the mixture stirred one way till hot, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Cut slices of broad, toast, and butter them whUe hot. Serve with the buttered eggs on the top. Time, about five minutes to make the eggs hot. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for four persons. Eggs Cooked without Boiling.—By this very simple process eggs are said to be lighter and better adapted to delicate stomachs than by the old and general plan of boiling. Proceed as follows:—Heat a basin with boiKng water till it is thoroughly hot; then throw oft' the water and put the eggs to be cooked into it, moving them round so that every part shall receive the heat. Have reaiy a kettle of boiling water, pour this over the eggs, and cover the basin to prevent any steam from escaping. In twelve minutes they will be perfectly cooked. Eggs, Curried.—Fry a couple of middle- sized onions in butter, and stir into the pan, as soon as the onions are slightly browned, one table-spoonful of curry-powder. Mix well, and add by degrees half a pint of veal stock; keep stirring the sauce imtU it is smooth and thick. When the mixture has simmered from ten to fifteen minutes, add, carefully stirring, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and let it simmer a few minutes longer. Have ready sliced half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, lay them in the curry sauce long enough to get quite hot, then serve both together on a dish. Time, half an hour to pre- pare ; eight or ten minutes to boil eggs. Suffi- cient, two eggs for each person. Eggs, Devilled.—Cut four hard-boiled eggs into halves, remove the yolks without breaking the whites; mix the yolks with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and fill the white-cups with it; set them to stand, by cutting off the pointed tip, on a dish, surround them with small cress and finely-cut lettuce. Time, fifteen minutes to boil eggs. Eggs, Dished.—Take a strong earthem or a metal dish. Butter the inside well. Break into it, without damaging the yolks, as many eggs as it will hold without their lying one upon the other. On the top of each drop pepper, salt, and a little bit of butter. Set them into the oven upon the stove, or in an American oven before the fire; watch their progress, and as soon as the butter is all melted, and the whites well set, serve. The heat of the dish will cook them a little more after they are taken from the oven. Eggs so done are often preferable to fried eggs. They are free from the tough brown under-surface to which the latter are liable, which also is indigestible, even when it is rather crisp than homy. Eggs (en Marinade).—Mix equal quan- tities of water and good veal gravy, two table- spoonfuls of each, with a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a seasoning of pepper and salt; put it into a stewpan, and stir in gradually two well-beaten yolks of eggs. When it thickens, and before it boils, have ready half a dozen nicely-poached eggs, and pour the sauce over them. -Garnish with parsley. Time, ton minutes to prepare. Sufficient for three persons.