CASSELl's COOKEllY. XX quite unne essaxy In the case of mutton or lamb it is absolutely objectionable The great desideratum m roast nu.tton is si.nplicity. Hot and red from the gravy being in it, and no blue from being underdone, and served as simply as possitk Z Its own gravy, is what the really simple English palate most prefers Eecollect the highest cooking is often the perfection of simplicity. Good beef and mutten give off, as a rule, plenty of good gravy. Lamb, veal, and pork but little; these three latter kinds of meat, which in passing we would mention require longer cooking in comparison to their size than either mutton or beef should have a little gravy made separately. Only in the case of lamb, remember' ^ have a very simple broth made from lamb-bones or mutton-bones, or it will over- 1 power the flavour of the lamb. But in reality lamb does not want much gravy if it IS brown and crisp, and has good wholesome mint sauce served with it. We next come to the ordinary gravy for roast fowls, chickens, game, &c., the principal difficulty in the preparation of which will generally be found to be the thickening; and as this question of thickening lies at the root of many failures, both in soups, gravies, and entries, we shall have to dwell on it at some length.' Gravy is made from stock. It is, however, of course impossible to describe eveiy- thing at once. We are of necessity compelled to use words such as "stock" without describing what stock means. We will treat the subject "stock" more fully another time, in addition to the ample and clear directions given under the letter S. We will briefly state stock to be the juice of meat>—beef, veal, &c.—exti-acted by placing it in water, and allowing it to simmer slowly for a long time, extra flavour being imparted to the " meat tea" by the addition of various vegetables and herbs, such as onions, parsley, carrots, turnips, celery, &c. Good stock made in the old-fashioned way requires a pound of meat to every pint, and is con- sequently, owing to the present increase in the price of meat, very expensive. On another occasion we shall point out various methods by which stock can be made without this allowance of one pound to a pint. Now stock, however made, although if done properly is a jelly when cold, is of the consistency of water when hot. By thickening we mean the process by which the stock is brought, when hot, from the consistency of water to that of cream. A great many cooks, by means of having plenty of meat placed at their disposal, often succeed in the early stage of gravy, i.e., they get the stock good and strong, although of a poor colour. It is too early yet in our lessons on the Principles of Cookery to describe how good stock may be made to assume a bright golden colour by simply being left to make its own colour in the stock-pot, and consequently it will be more practical to show how to make a Hght-coloured stock into good brown gravy. We have already described the elementary process of thickening by simply adding flour; the next stage in advance is flour and butter combined. This is, perhaps, the most common of all methods. A cook will place a small amount of butter on a plate, and by its side a little heap of flour. She will place this jilate in front of the fire for the butter to dissolve, and will then, with a steel knife, or if a trifle more advanced in knowledge with a spoon, knead the butter and flour together, add this to the stock, stirring it in till it boils, when the stock will become thick in proportion to the amount of butter and flour put in. By extravagantly using extract of meat, or colouring of some sort, such as sugar, or still worse, a colouring ball, a certain amount of brown colour is impai-ted to the gravy, which, if the stock is really good and well flavoured and the pepper not forgotten, will be by