MAC holes, and receives the shape of the perfora- tions. The macaroni is partially baked as it issues from these holes, by a lire placed below the cylinder, and as it descends is di-awn away and hung on rods, placed across the room, whore in a few days it diies so as to •be fit for use. The manufacture of macaroni is an important Italian industry, the article being not only largely consumed at home, but exported in considerable quantities to all parts of the world. In Geneva alone about 170,000 quintals of wheat are employed every year in its manu- facture. The finest sorts of macaroni are the whitest in colour, and those which do not burst or break up in boUing. In the boiling process, macaroni should swell considerably, and become quite soft, but it should retain its form, other- wise one may conclude that it has not been made of the best wheat. Occasionally macaroni is flavoured and coloured with saffron and tm-meiic, to suit certain palates. Macaroni la PontLfiEe).—^Boil eight ounces of long straight ribbon macaroni in the ■usual way, but fifteen minutes will bo enough to swell it, which is all that is needed. Drain on a sieve, and when drained put a neat layer of it as a lining over a well-buttered mould; cover next with a quenelle forcemeat of fowl or rabbit, and fill the mould with game or poultry, boned and filleted, some larks, also boned, and rolled with thin bits of bacon inside each, and some delicate strips or pieces ait into rounds about the size of a shilling, distributed with egg-baUs and button mushrooms, pre- viously simmered in gravy, in the mould. Thicken the gravy, a little of which use to moisten the whole, cover with macaroni, and simmer, but do not boil, for an hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni {a la Keine).—Boilhalf a pound of pipe macaroni {see Macaroni, Boiled, k I'lta- lienne). Meanwhile warm slowly in a stewpan three-quarters of a pint of cream, and slice into it half a pound of StQton or other white cheese, add two ounces of good fresh butter, two blades of mace, pounded, a good pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Stir until the cheese is melted, and the whole is free from lumps, when put in the macaroni, and move it gently round the pan until mixed and hot, or put the maca- roni on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. It may be covered with fried bread-crumbs of a pale colour, and dried in a Dutch oven. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Macaroni and Game Pie {see Game and Macaroni Pic). Macaroni (au Gratin).—Break up a pound of macaroni in three-inch lengths, boil as usual, and drain. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the macaroni, twelve ounces of Parmesan and Gruyere cheese mixed, and about a quarter of a pint of some good sauce—bechamel or white sauce. Move the stewpan and its contents over the fire until the ma«ironi has absorbed the butter, &c., then turn it out on a dish, which should be garnished '.vith croutons. Pil(^ it in the shape of a dome, cover with bread-raspings, a little clarified butter run thi-ough a colander, and brown very lightly with a salamander. Time, three- quarters of an hour to prepai-e. Probable cost, 5d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Macaroni (au vin).—Boil two ounces of macaroni from twenty to thirty minutes. Drain on a sieve before the fire. Put into a stewpan two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a lump of butter, and as much Parmesan, grated, as will make it, when melted, of the consistency of custard. Add the macaroni, and toss well in the pan together. Have ready a French roll that has been steeped in about a pint of wine—it should have been rasped so that no brown crust remains on it. Pour the macaroni hot over the roll, and brown with a salamander. Probable cost, 6d. to 6d. per pound. Macaroni, Boiled (a I'ltalienne). — Macaroni being a national article of food, the mode of cooking it is best imderstood in Italy. A better acquaintance with the Italian mode will, we hope, enable English cooks to convert a dish of macaroni into a wholesome and delicious preparation, such as is met with on the Continent. Dishes of macaroni, with tomatoes, truffles, game, or fish, are all good, and there is a great variety to be found in the preceding recipes, such as Macaroni a la Pon- tifie, a la Reine, au Gratin, au vin, &c., but one rule should be observed in the boiling of the macaroni. The following recipe, if properly attended to, Avill insure success:—Put five or six ounces of the best Italian macaroni into plenty of boiling water, not less than three pints, a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of fine pepper; simmer for twenty minutes, and di'ain. After this first boiling, which should be observed in the preparation of all dishes, return the macaroni to the stewpan, with half a pint of gravy or broth, aocordjng to the richness required, and simmer until the maca- roni has imbibed all the Liquid. Have ready grated of Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, mixed, a quarter of a pound. Put half the quantity Avith the macaroni until nearly melted, then add the rest, and an ounce of butter. Move the contents of the pan round in one direction until the cheese has been well incoi-porated and dissolved in the macaroni. Turn it out on a hot dish, and serve. In this way macaroni is eaten at most of the best tables in Leghorn and Florence. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Macaroni, Cheese with {see Cheese with Macaroni). Macaroni Cordial. — This favourite French liqueur is thus prepared :—Put half an ounce of the oil of bitter almonds into half a pint of spirits of wine; shako up the mixture every day for two or three days ; then infuse it for ten days, with one ounce of Spanish angelica root in three gallons of brandy, one drachm of the essence of lemon, three quarts of clarified sugar, two quarts of milk-flour water, and five quarts of soft water; last of all, filter the whole thi'ough a bag.