CAL CAL ( 100 ) well together the brains, a brcakfiist-cupful of tinoly-gnitod bread-crumbs, a little salt, popper, nutmeg, and parsley, three ounces of butter, and two eggs. Form them into balls about the size of a nutmeg, fry them in boiling oil or di-ipping, and drain them from the fat before thoy ai-e added to the soup. Time, four hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quiirt, with- out the wine. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. {See also Turtle Soup, Mock.) Cairs Head Mould.—Cut the remains of a cold calf's head into neat slices. Make some clear Scivoui-y jolly with gelatine (see Aspic Jelly, Economical). Put a little of the jelly at the bottom of a plain mould which has been soaked in cold water. Let it set a little, then arrange the pieces of meat in the mould, making them look as nice as possible with a little parsley, pieces of ham or tongue, rings of hard- boiled egg. Leave space between the pieces of meat for the jelly to run through. Nearly fiU the mould -with the meat, pour the jelly over it, and put it in a cool place till stiff enough to turn out. Time, twelve hours to set. Suffi- cient for a breakfast dish. Probable cost, Is. for a moderate-sized mould, exclusive of the meat. Calfs Head Pie.—An excellent j)ie may be made of calf's head. Take one properly prepared, and boil it until the bones can be taken out. Line the edge of a large pie-dish with a good, light crust, put in the pieces of meat, the tongue at the top, season it with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, pour over it a cupful of the liquor in which the head was boUed, cover it with a thick crust, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. While it is baking put the bones of the head into a sauce- pan, with a quart of the liquor, a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, an onion chopped small, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Let it simmer gently imtil it is reduced to half, then strain it, and add two table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup and a glass of port. Mix the brains with three or four sage-leaves, chopped small, a little nutmeg grated, and an egg. Make them up into little cakes, and fry them in hot frying fat until they are nicely browned. Put them in the oven to keep warm, with a sheet of blotting paper under them to drain off the fat. Have ready also four or five hard- boiled eggs. When the pie is sufficiently cooked, take off the crust, and lay the brain cakes and the eggs, cut into rings, on the top ; pour the boiling gravy over aU, and fasten the crust on again with the white of an egg before sending the dish to table. Time to bake, an hour and a half or more. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, from 6s. to Us. Calfs Head Ragout.—Boil a caFs head, and wlulo the flesh is still firm, take it up, cut it into niee slices, about half an inch thick, and as large as possible. Dust these on both sides with flour, salt, and grated nutmeg. Have a saucepan ready, melt two ounces of ])'itter in it, and fry the pieces of meat, and as crich piece is lightly bro\vncd, ])ut it into a Btewpan. When all the pieces are fried, mix a table-spoonful of flour very smoothly with the butter loft in the pan, and add gradually to this a breakfast-cupful of the liquid in wliich the head was first boiled, and a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira. Season the liqour with the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne. When this sauce is quite smooth, pour it over the meat, and let all simmer together for about ten minutes. Arrange the meat nicely on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it. Garnish either with brain cakes or toasted sippets. Time, to boil calf's head, one hour and a half. Sufficient for eight or nine jjcrsons. CalTs Head Ragout (another way).— Wash half a calf's headthoroughly, and boil it for about three hours. Take it up, drain it, and score the outside skin in diamonds. Brush it over with well-beaten egg, and strew over that a cupful of finely-grated bread-cnunbs, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of cayenne. Put it in a hot oven, or place it before the fire to brown, and, before sending it to table, squeeze over it the juice of a large lemon, and coveri completely with melted butter. Sufficient for four or five persons. Cairs Head, Roasted.—Wash a calfs head, remove the brains and the tongue, and simmer it gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take it out of the saucepan, and fill it with good veal forcemeat. Sew it up, or fasten it securely with skewers, bind it with tape, and put it down to roast. Baste it constantly, serve good gravy with it, and, before sending it to table, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it. Boil the tongue and brains, and serve them on a separate dish, with a few rashers of bacon roimd them. Time to roast, two hours. Suffi- cient for eight or nine persons. CalTs Head Soup.—Take half a calf's head, properly prepared, and as fresh as it can be got. Wash well, and soak it in cold water for a couple of hours. Take it out, drain it, and put it in a saucepan with three quarts of cold water, and let it simmer gently for three hours, when it may be taken out, and set on one side until wanted. Put two leeks, two carrots, two turnips, all peeled and sliced, two onions with four cloves stuck in them, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt into the liquor. Let these stew gently for another hour, and keep skimming all the time. Strain the soup, and remove the fat, which must be put into a frying- pan, melted, and two large onions sliced into it. Let these brown, add a little of tlic liquor, and mix with them, gradually and very smoothly, three 'table-spoonfuls of rice flour, and a salt- spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Add the rest of the liquor, little by little, and the calfs head cut into pieces about an inch and a half square, and let all boil together for five or six minutes. Serve wth toasted sippets. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. CalTs Head, To Carve.—Commence by maldng long slices from end to end of the