( 59 ) BEE BEE of butter and a pint of water; when boiling, TMBs them through a sieve into two pounds of tiour, and stir it with a spoon until the heat has gone otf. When the dough, or paste, is quite smooth, roll it out, and it is ready for the lining. Take two pounds of rump steak and cut them into small coUops; season them with minced piu-sley, pepper, and salt; dust them with flour, and lay them rouna the mould; fill it with alternate layers of potatoes, thinly sliced, and meat. Make a Hd for the mould with some of the paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake about thiee hours and a half. Put an ornamental centre to the cover, that it may be more easily raised to throw in some gravy as soon as it is baked. Probable cost, 3s. lOd. Beef, Potted.—Hare ready a saucepan of boiUng water, and a covered jar that will hold about two pounds of beef; let the meat be lean, and without bone or gristle. Place the jar containing the meat into the saucepan; put two tea-spoonfuls of water into it, and close the lid tightly that no more may enter. The water in the saucepan must be about an inch and a half below the hd of the jar, and it should boil slowly until the meat is done, which will be in about three hours and a half. It should then be chopped with a knife, and afterwards pounded in a mortar; adding some clarified butter, the meat-juice from the jar (if too much keep back a part), and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Fill into small pots, and pour some melted butter over the top; this will preserve the meat good for a long time. Beef, Pressed.—Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre in a little water, and mix with it two pounds of common salt and half a pound of brown sugar. Rub this pickle into a piece of meat, weighing about ten or twelve pounds, every morning for eight days; then remove it from the pan, and secure it in a nice round with a piece of broad tape or calico. Put it into hot water, and simmer for over five hours; then put it into a pan of cold spring water for five or six minutes, drain, and put it on a flat sur- face with an even weight on the top. "When cold take off the bandage, trim the meat, and serve. {See also Pressed Beef.) Beef, Preserved (iSee Australian Beef). Beef, Ragout.—Take equal quantities of good gravy and boiling water—a pint in all. Pour it into a ste^vpan, in which two pounds of cold roast beef, sliced, have been put. Add five or six small onions, some mixed spices, pepper and salt to taste, and let the whole stew very gently until tender, which will be in about two hours. Before serving, add capers and pickled walnuts to the gravy. Probable cost, exclusive of meat, 4d. or 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Beef, Ribs of {\ la Fcrmiere).—Take a rib of beef, and cover it with slices of bacon well seasoned with herbs. Put into a stewpan a little butter, and let it melt over the fire, and place the rib in it, with some salt and popper. Expose the moat to the heat of a quick fire, and when sufficiently browned on both sides, set the ^ewpa;^ farther from the fire, so that it ma^ continue to cook at a gentle heat. As soon as it is sufficiently done, remove the meat, and place it on a dish. Take some small cucumberb, slice, and cook them at a gentle heat in the gravy, and add to the meat before serving. Beef, Ribs of (a la Marseillaise).— Brown a rib of beef over a quick fire, with four table-spoonfuls of good oil. When both sides are browned draw the stewpan aside, and let it cook gently until tender. Fry some sliced onions in oil until they are brown ; then add vinegar, mustard, and a little stock broth. Season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the rib of beef. Beef, Ribs of. To Carve.—The ribs \ should be cut in thin and even slices from the BIBS OF BEEF. thick end towards the thin, in the same manner as the sirloin; this can be more readily and cleanly done, if the carving-knife is first run along between the meat and the end and rib- bones. Beef, Ribs of. To Roast.—The best piece to roast is the fore-rib, and it should be hung for two or three days before being cooked. The ends of the ribs sliould be sawn off, the outside fat fastened with skewers, and the strong sinew and chine bones removed. The joint should first be placed near the fire, and after a short time it should be drawn back and roasted steadily. Baste freely with clarified dripping at first, as there will not be sufficient gravy when first put down; keep basting at intervals of ten minutes till done. Care must be taken not to allow it to bum, as it is very easily spoiled. Serve with horseradish sauce. Probable cost, lOd, to Is. per poxmd. Beef, Rib Steaks (h la Bordelaise).— Cut out a thick steak from between the bones; soak it in salad-oil, and season with salt and pepper. Broil on each side for five minutes. BoU. a small young vegetable marrow, cut it into half-inch slices, glaze, and lay them, when made quite hot, over the steak. Pour some Bordelaise sauce over all, and serve very hot. Time to boil the marrow, ten to twenty minutes. Beef, Rib Steaks {ii la Maitre d'Hotel), —Prepare steaks as in preceding recipe; put soiiie IVJa^tre 4'Hotel butter oi^ a, hot dish; lay