CLA ( 1^ ) CLI Whisk it to a froth, and as it rises take it off »md put it on a siovc. When it has drained, heap it on a glass dish, and pour some thick croani round tho puffs to lloat thorn. Timo to stand Leforo whisking, twolvo hours. Prohablo cost, 28. Cd., oxchisivo of the clarot. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Claret Sauce. — Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and put Avith them a cupful of claret. Put tho mixture into a saucepan with half a tea-spoonful of finely-grated lonion-rind, a heaped tablo-spoonfid of sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon. AVliisk tho sauco over tho fire tUl it is well frothed, and when it is on the point of boiling pour it over tho pudding. Claret is an excellent wine for sauces, as it contains very little spirit and a gi-eat deal of liavoiir. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a smaU pudding. Clear Soup (excellent).—Take one quart of flavoured stock, made either from bones or fresh meat. Skim it, and pour it without sediment into a saucepan. Whilst it is cold, stir in half a pound of lean beef, without either fat or sinew, and cut very small; a carrot scraped to pulp; a turnip and a leek cut into dice. Keep sturing tiU the liquor is on the point of boiling, draw the saucepan back, skim, then simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain slowly through a jelly-bag tUl clear. The soup will become cloudy if allowed to stand long before being used. If liked, it can bo clarified with white of egg, as in the next recipe, but white of egg im- poverishes soup, while beef enriches it. Clear Soup (made from bones).—Take the bones of a piece of roast beef, which should ■weigh, before cooking, seven or eight pounds, or, if this is not at hand, one pound of fresh bones; break them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with three quarts of cold water. Let the liquid boU, then draw the saucepan to the' side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for six hours. Very carefully remove the scmn as it rises. Strain it, and leave it untU. the next day. Remove every particle of fat, and put it into the stewpan (being careful to leave any sediment at the bottom), with a large carrot cut in slices, a turnip, an onion, and half a drachm of bniised celery-seed tied in muslin. Let these simmer for another hour and a haK; if the liquid is very much reduced, add a little cold water, so as to keep wp the quantity to three pints. Season it while boiling with pepper, salt, and a small lump of sugar. Strain it again, and skim it airefuUy from time to time. In order to make it quite clear and bright, whisk the whites of two eggs with half a pint of cold water. Stir this briskly into the soup when it is just warm. Let it boil, and gently lift off the scum as it rises. Draw the stewpan back a little, and keep it boiling gently for half an hour. Let it stand to settle, and strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times if necessary. It ought to look like shcrr>'. The white of one egg is required for a pint of soup. Add a tca-spoonfid of Licbig's extract, and a little browning, if tho colour is too light, but caro must be taken in browning it. This soup may bo varied to any ex tent. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, green poa«, asparagus, vermicelli, or macaroni may be added, and tho soup will then take the name of the vegetable which is put into it. Macaroni and vei-micelli should be boiled Bcpanitely, or they will spoil tho clearness. Sufficient for three pints. Probable cost, exclusive of the bones, and for clear soup, 2d. per pint. Clear Soup (made from fresh meat).—Cut three pounds of the shin of beef, two pounds of veal, and two slices of ham into small pieces, and lay them at the bottom of a stewpan with a lump of butter; put the bones with the meat, and also a couple of large carrots and turnips sliced, half a drachm of bruised celery-seed tied in muslin, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Cover the saucepan, and set it on the fire. Let the meat brown on both sides, and when there is a brown glaze at the bottom of the pan, put a little hot water to it. Let it come just to the point of boiling, then add a little cold water. Skim it carefully, and, when nearly boiling, add more cold water; repeat this, and remove the scum till no more rises, and then add three quarts of water. Simmer gently by the side of the fire for four or five hours. Strain through a jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or press it at all, and let the liquid remain until the next day, W'hen every particle of fat must be removed, and any sediment or impurities which may be at the bottom of the basin left untouched. When it is to bo used, warm it, and, if necessary, clarify it, but if the directions given have been attended to, namely, the meat boiled gently and without ceasing, the scum removed, the Hquid gently strained, and the sediment left out, the soup will be as clear as spring water, and of a bright golden colour. As was said in the last recipe this soup may be varied to any extent {see Clear Soup, made from bones). Turned vege- tables are generally served m clear soups. For this purpose dried vegetables are to be recom- mended. {See Vegetables, Dried.) Season, while boiling, with pepper, salt, and a piece of sugar. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for two quarts. Cleton Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucci^an with the thin rind of half a lemon. Add, while cold, a quai-ter of a poimd of ground rice, and stir the milk over the fire until it thickens; remove the lemon-rind, and stir into the liquid a piece of butter about the size of an egg, then pour it into a bowl to cool. Whisk four eggs thoroughly, and add them to the pudding, together with two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, a wine-glassful of brandy, and twelve sweet almonds blanched and poimdcd. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, pour the mixture in, and lay two or three thin slices of candied citron on tho top of tho pudding. Bake in a good oven for half an hom-. Probable cost, lOd., exclu.=ive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Clifton Puffs.—Mix together half a pound each of chopped apples, stoned raisins, picked currants, sifted sugar, and finely-chopped candied lemon. Add a quarter of a pound of