MEA ( 413 ) MEA Meat and Vegetable Stock.—Having put the necessarj' qiumtity of meat, bones, and trimminga, vnth a proper proportion of water, into the stewpan, chop the vegetables, allowing to each quart of water a lettuce, a head of celery, two small onions, each stuck with a clove, a leek, a turnip, a carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, some parsley, and, unless the soup is to be white, a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, and hidf an ounce of salt. Stew from five to six hours; pulp the vegetables, and strain through a sieve for use. A pint of water is enough for a pound of meat. Meat, Australian {see Australian Meat). Meat Balls, Minced, Fried—Take some roast mutton, some chestnuts, and neck of veal boiled in water with salt and vinegar. Cut them up separately into small pieces, mix them with seasoning herbs, also cut as fine as pos- sible. Add enough salt and pepper to season the materials, and make them into a mass with the yolks of three eggs. Roll this into balls, fry in butter until done, and then serve with tomato sauce. Meat Cake, Moulded. — Pounded or .potted meat does best for this cake. Cut slices of cold roast veal, without any of the brown part, and lean ham ; pound them to a paste in a mortar. Boil eight or ten eggs hard, and mince parsley enough to fiU the haQ of a quarter-pint cup, season \vith a little pounded mace and pepper. Lay the egg-yolks in halves, at the bottom of a buttered moiild, and strew some of the parsley over them. Next, make a layer of the pounded meat, which should be moistened with a little good stock or gravy; arrange the egg-yolks as before, and fill up with seasoning and meat. Put bits of butter over the top, and bake in a gentle oven. The cake should not be removed from the mould until cold. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to bake. Suf- ficient, two pounds of meat for four persons. Meat, Cold.—When newly-cooked meat is brought from table, put it on a dry dish ; if the gravy is left about it the meat becomes sour. To enjoy cold meat it should be cooked the day before, and not cut, as the juices thus remain, and add a richness to the meat. Every particle of cold meat that is left from table .should be used. The fat portions can be melted down to make dripping for kitchen use and frying purposes. The skin, gristle, and bone should be gently stewed in water to make stock for soup or gravy. The lean parts may be served again. Meat, Cooking of.—" In whate\ •er man- ner meat is cooked," observes Mr. Donovan, " there is a considerable diminution of sub- stance, the loss consisting chiefly of water, juices, soluble matter, and fat. In an economical point of view, a comparison of the loss incurred in the two most usually employed processes— roasting and boiling—is interesting-, yet it has not occi'.pied the attention of the public as much as the importance of the subject seems to de^iand. Professor Wallace, of Edinburgh, has given us the results of some experiments made to dctfrmino the; loss which mea,t under- goes in '•ooking. It ia to bo ro'rn-ttfd that it is not more in detail, and that the weight of the bone in each joint was not ascertained ; but stiL it is of great value. The results, reduced to 100 pounds of meat, are as foUows:— lbs. 100 lbs. of beef lost in boiling . . 26i 100 lbs. of beef lost in roasting. . 32 100 lbs. of beef lost in baking . . 30 100 lbs. of legs of mutton, averaging about 94 lbs. each, lost in boiling 21|- 100 lbs. of shoulders of mutton, aver- aging 10 lbs. each, lost in roasting 31J 100 lbs. of loins of mutton, averaging 8 lbs. 12 oz. each, lost in roasting 36^ 100 lbs. of necks of mutton, averaging 10 lbs. each, lost in roasting . 23J Thus the loss in boiling beef or ro atton was less than in roasting. And it appearh, that meat loses by the cooking about one-fifth to one- third. A few years since, I undertook the super- intendence of some experiments of the same tendency. These trials were made on several parts of the different animals, with as much attention to accuracy as the nature of the sub- ject permitted. They were made on different qualities of the same kind of meat, at various seasons, both in England and Ireland. Such experiments are exceedingly troublesome, and occasion no small inconvenience; it is, there- fore, the less surprising that the subject has been so little investigated; and the following results, in the absence of any others so par- ticularly detailed, wiU perhaps prove interest- ing. Allowance must be made for the nature of such processes. The degree of fatness was it all cases brought to a standard by cutting off all excess, and leaving the meat in a proper state for the housekeeper's use. The meat was in all cases cooked as nearly as possible to the same degree, and the weights were determined with exactness; avoirdupois weight throughout is intended. The bones were entirely stripped of their meat previous to their being weighed." A piece of beef roasted formed the first expeiiment. It consisted of four of the largest ribs, and was not remarkably fat; its weight was 11 lbs. 1 oz. During the process of roasting it lost 2 lbs. 6 oz., of which 10 oz. were fat, and 28 oz. were water dissipated by evaporation. When the meat was dissected off with the utmost care, the bones weighed 16 oz. Hence the weight of meat, properly roasted and fit for the table, was but 7 lbs. 11 oz., out of 11 lbs. 1 oz. origi- nally submitted to experiment. Other parts were submitted to similar tests, and we learn oi mutton:—A leg of mutton, wcigL'ng 9^ Ibs. when boiled gave 1 lb. of bone, shank included, it lost in the boiling 1 lb. 2 oz.; the meat weighed 7 lbs. 2 oz. A similar leg, weighing 9 lbs. 6 oz., afforded 15 oz. of bone, and lost 12 oz. in the boiling; the meat weighed 7 lbs. 11 oz. A leg of smaU Scotch mutton, weigh- ing 6 lbs., afforded 10^ oz. of bone, lost b^oz. in the boiling, and the meat weighed 6 lbs. The following experiments are miscellaneous:— A fore-quarter of lamb, weighing 9 lbs., af- forded, when roasted, 20 oz. of bone, and lost 1| lbs. in the roasting ; the meat weighed 6 lbs. A hand of salt pork, weighing 4 lbs. 5 oz., lost in boiling 11 oz.; the bone weighed 9 oz.; the meat was 8 lbs. 1 oz. A knuckle of veal, weighing