( 412 ) boiled o'^'ys, and the yolk of a ruw one, with a Bult-spounful of siilt, ono of poi)por, and ono of mustard. Theji add, a fow drops at a tinui, a quiirter of a pint of best salad-oil, and lialf lliat quantity of vijitfgar, stirring and rubbing woU all tho tinio, to provont tho oil from settling on the top. When tlieso ingredients urn mixed to a smooth batter, add two table-spoonfuls of good gravy or jolly, ono of rieh (a-eain, tho juice of half a lemon, and one sliuUot, pounded. Tho secret of making this sauce is to mix it thoroughly, and add the different ingredients very gradually. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient to cover a moderate-sized dish of cold meat, fish, &c. Mead, Simple. — A simple, delicious beverage, seldom made except by the cottager who keeps bees. After disposing of the bulk of tho honey-produce, the goodwife economises what remains for the use of the family, thus :— Dissolve a pound, or more, of honey in thi-ee quarts of water. Boil, skim, and reduce the liquid to half a gallon. Fill the vessel in which it is placed, cover, and let the mead be imdisturbed for two or three days, when it is ready for use. The combs, after being drained, are washed in warm water, that nothing shall be lost, and the liquid is strained from the sediment, to be used to enrich the mead or to make the family beer, with the addition of a little yeast. It is kept warm by the fire for a few days to ferment, then bottled. Mead, To Prepare (another way).—The following is one of the most approved methods of brewing mead:—Let the whites of six eggs be well incorporated with twelve gallons of •water, to which add twenty poimds of honey. Boil these ingredients for an hour, then put into the liquor a little ginger, clove, cinnamon, and mace, together with a small sprig of rose- mary. As soon as the liquor is cool, add a spoonful of yeast, and pour the mead into a vessel, which should be filled up whUe it works. When the fermentation ceases, close the cask, and deposit it for six or eight months in a vault or cellar of an equal temperature, and in which the liquor will not be liable to be affected by the changes of the weather. At the end of that time it may be bottled, and will then be fit for use. A more simple, and to some palates more agree- able, method, is to mix the honey in the propor- tion of one poimd to a quart of water, which is to be boiled, scummed, and fermented in the usual manner, without the addition of any aromatic substances. It ought to be preserved in a similar manner, and bottled at the expira- i ion of the same time. Mead Wine.—To ten gallons of water put ten pounds of honey and a quarter of a pound of good hops; boil for an hour, and when cooled to the warmth c f new milk, ferment with yeast spread on a toast. Let it stand in the tub two days; then put it into tho CJisk. The wine will be fit for bottling in twelve months. Honey of a year old is better for this purpose than new. Meagre Soup (.Sonpo Maigre).—Before beginning, wash thoroughly all your green vegetables, peel your roots, and throw them into cold water. The proportions of each must , depend very much ujwn what you can get. Tlu! soup, when finishcid, should be of tho thickness of ordinary i)(;a-80up. Take five or six handfuls of couniion soxrel, two large let- tuces from which tho withered leaves only have been removed, a small Imnch of chervil, and two or three s])rigs of parsley. ,Shr(;d all these very fine. Slice and chop onions, (;arrot8, and leeks very fine. Fry the vegetables till lightly browned in butter, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, and add a bay-h^f, a sprig of thyme, and a good lump of butter. iSeason with pepper and salt. Stir from time to time, to prevent any of the ingredients from sticking to the bottom. When they are thoroughly cooked, press the vegetables through a sieve. If necessary, add more water to the pulp, and boil the soup again before serving. The soup may be further thickened either with bread or boiled potatoes—steeped in a little of the liquor, and then broken up and mixed with the soup. Meal Fritters, Indian Indian Meal). Meal Pudding (American).—A breakfast- cupful of Indian corn-meal and a tea-spoon- ful of salt, mixed with boiling mUk, makes a pudding much liked by the Americans; and, when enriched with eggs, of which there should be four to this quantity of meal, it cannot fail to please almost any palate. The eggs must not be added imtil the mixture has cooled. Boil in a buttered mould, and serve with syrup and butter, or with any sweet sauce. Time, two hours and a half in a mould. A quart of milk is sufficient for the above ingredients. Meal Puddings, in Skins.—See that the skins are well washed. Let them soak for twelve hours in salt and water, then fill them, as for ox-blood puddings, allowing room for swelling. Make a stufiing of two pounds of good sifted oatmeal, one pound and a half of finely- shred suet, a large onion, or two middle-sized ones minced, pepper, salt, and a little allspice. Boil, but do not put them into quite boil- ing water. Time, about thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for twenty- four skins. Meal " Sterz" (a German recipe).—Into a quart and a half of boiling water throw half a pound of oatmeal, or any other meal. Boil quickly for eight minutes, keeping the lid of the saucepan closely down. Turn the " sterz " very carefully without breaking, boil another eight minutes, then throw off all the water except about a quarter of a pint. Break up the "sterz" lightly with a fork, add two large table-spoonfuls of hot butter, and a little salt, and let the dish remain near the fire for fiftt'en minutes, still closely covered. Just before serving, pour more warm butter over the "sterz." Time, thirty-five minutes. Pro- bable cost, 6d. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Meat and Bread Pudding (wc Bread and Meat Pudding, Portable). Moat and Vegetables, An Extract of {lee Mirepoix).