( 133 ) CHI CHI throe for eacli person. Probable cost, 8d., ex- clusive of the cold meat. Chicken and Ham, To Pot.-Pound separately the white meat of a cold fowl, and un equal weight of ham, beef, or tongue. Season the fowl with salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the other meat with pepper only. Put Layers of each into a jar, place a shco of butter on the top, and bake for an hour and a half. Let them get cold, then pour some clari- fied butter on the top rather thickly. A little may be eaten with bread and butter for break- fast or luncheon. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Chicken, and Macaroni. — Boil a chicken in the usual manner. Take half a potmd of pipe macaroni, and boil it in water with a lump of butter in it. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, drain it, and sub- stitute milk for the water, with a large onion stuck with cloves, and a little salt and pepper. Boil imtO. the macaroni is tender but unbroken, then grate over it a quarter of a pound of Parme- san cheese. Lay the chicken, which ought to bo just cooked, on a dish, put the macaroni and cheese over it, and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil the macaroni the second time, half an hour; to boil the chicken, half an hour. Sufficient for four persons. Probable cost, chicken, 2s. 6d. Chicken and Macaroni Pudding- Boil three ounces of pipe macaroni in some nicely-flavoured stock till it is tender but un- broken. Prepare the meat as in the next recipe, aUo^ving six ounces of ham and six oimces of chicken to three ounces of macaroni. Mix them well together, and add a well-beaten egg, and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, tie it in a cloth, boil or steam it, and when ready serve it as hot as possible. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four persons. Chicken and Rice Pudding.—Cut the meat from the remains of a cold fowl, and take half its weight in ham. Free it from skin and gristle, and pound it in a mortar, with a little salt, white pepper, and povmded mace. To one pound of fowl, and half a pound of ham, allow a cupful of rice. Boil this in some nicely- flavoured stock till it is sufficiently cooked, then drain it, and add to it a cupful of new milk and the pounded meat. Stir these well together. Put the mixtnre into a buttered mould, dredge a little flour over the top, tie it in a floured cloth, and boU it for an hour, taking care that the water in the saucepan does not reach as high as the top of the mould. Serve with mushroom or oyster sauce. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken and Sweetbread Pie.—Line a deep pie-dish with a good crust, and spread a layer of forcemeat on it. Put over this alter- nate layers of chicken cut into neat joints, and sweetbread cut into small pieces, both seasoned with salt and cayenne; sprinkle over each layer ft few mushrooms or truffles chopped small. When the dish is nearly fuU, put some slices of hard-boiled egg over the top, pour a little gravy over the meat, cover the dish with the same crust that it was lined with, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it in a good oven. Just before serving, make a hole in the top and pour in some good gravy. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, chickens, 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient, a pie made with two chickens for six persons. Chicken and Tongue with Cauli- flowers (a handsome supper dish).—Boil a tongue and two chickens according to the direc- tions given for both. Brush the tongue over with glaze, place it in the middle of a large dish, and put a chicken on each side of it. Cover the birds with white sauce, and garnish the dish with small cauliflowers or brussels sprouts. Serve hot. If preferred, celery may be boiled, and substituted for the cauliflowers, or the chickens and tongue may be served cold, and the dish garnished with cut lemon and parsley. Time, half an hour for the chickens, two hours for the tongue, twenty minutes for the cauliflowers. Sirfiicient, two chickens and a tongue for six persons. Probable cost: chickens, about 58. per pair; tongue, 4s.; cauliflowers, 2d. each. Children's Cake (suitable for sending to children at school).—Mix thoroughly one poxmd of flour, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Rub well in a quarter of a pound of butter or good beef drip- ping, and add a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a poimd of chopped raisins, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and two oimces of candied peel chopped small. Mix with water to a stiflf paste, and bake it in a moderate oven. If preferred, caraway seeds may be substituted for the currants and raisins. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. Chili Vinegar.—Cut 100 small, fresh, red chilies into halves, and infuse them for a fortnight in a quart of best pickling vinegar. Strain the liquid and put it into small bottles. The flavour of the chilies will not be entirely extracted, so the bottle may be replenished with rather less vinegar than before. It is a con- venience to have this vinegar at hand to flavour sauces, and to serve with fish, which many persons cannot eat without the addition of an acid and cayenne. Half an ounce of cayenne will answer the same purpose as the chilies, if it can be procured genuine. The vinegar will keep a long time if closely corked. Sufficient for one quart of vinegar. Probable cost of chilies, 2s. per hundred. China Chilo.—Mince finely as much of the undressed lean part of the neck, leg, or loin of mutton as will fill a pint basin, adding a i little of the fat, also minced, if this is Uked. Put three ounces of butter into a saucepan, with two small onions chopped small, two or three young lettuces finely shred, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter as much cayenne pepper, a pint of young green peas, and a small bunch of parsley. Stir the ingredients over a gentle fire until the onions are soft, then add the minced meat, and half a pint of good stock or