tlllNClPLES—GARNISHING. ^ rou ...K, aud se^xsoniiig with a Utile salt and pepper. Pass this sauce through a tamis to render it smooth, and take care that it is nice and thick Now place alternately on the top of each little roll of fish a smaU piece—say the size of the thumb-nail—of the br-ht-red skin of a chHli, and a slice of th6 bright outside of a green gherkin or the skin of a green chQli. What a wonderful alteration in the appearance of the dish! Yet recollect the extra cost is next to nothing, and the whole cost of the dish less than a plain fried sole in egg and bread-crumbs with melted butter. It is in garnishing cold dishes, however, that the greatest effect in appearance is generally produced. For instance, a ham plain boHed, and one glazed and orna- mented with a border of what looks like butter, what a contrast! Yet this border can be easily made with a little practice. We wHl describe how to make a ham look nice, and wiU first suppose the ham boHed sufficiently, and allowed to get cold in the water in which it was boiled, in order that the jelly, that gives a ham such a deUcious flavour, may get cold in the ham itself, instead of running out into the dish, as it would do had the ham been taken out of the liquor. Next we will suppose some nice bright glaze has been placed over the surface of the ham with a brush till it resembles in appearance a new mahogany dining-table. Next, how are we to make the bright trellis-work to go round the ham. First, take some plain white lard and melt it, and, if it be winter time, add to ".t a little plain salad oil, in order to make the mixture thinner when cold. Now take an ordinary sheet of common notepaper, and roll it into the shape of a cone j take the point of the cone between the thumb and finger of the right hand, and pour some of the melted lard, or mixed lard and oil, into the cone, and so hold the point that the lard will run out in a thin sti-eam at the end at will; i.e., so hold it that you can regulate the thickness of the stream or stop it altogether. It is now evident that you can write or even draw with this cone, as with a soft pen, making at wiU thick strokes or fine strokes. Of course to do it well a person must first be a good writer or drawer, and then have a considerable amount of practice. A very little practice, however, will be sufficient to put a plain ornamental border round a ham. My own experience is as follows. I practised on a clean, black, shiny tea-tray, as then the lard, Avhich of course hardens as it falls, could be scraped up with a knife (an ivory paper knife is best), -re-melted, and really used for the ham. On the occasion of a birthday or Christmas-time, a suitable device, such as Many happy returns of the day," or " A Merry Christmas," can be written in the centre of the ham, and a border placed round the edge. A paper frill tied on to the bone, and plenty of fresh parsley round the dish, will always ensure an inviting appearance. One of the prettiest and most useful garnishes for cold dishes is beetroot, especially for any white kind of dishes. Take, for instance, that exceedingly hand- some dish when properly prepared—a salad mayonnaise. First prepare the sauce, taking care to make it sufficiently thick, so that it can be used to mask or cover an uneven surface. It will be found best, in making mayonnaise sauce, to commence by adding the oil drop by drop on the yolk or yolks of eggs alone; do not put in the pepper and salt or vinegar till after it has got quite thick. Indeed, it will be generally found best in making an ornamental salad of any description to reserve the pepper and salt till the whole salad is mixed up together. Having, by beating the oil and egg well together, got the sauce as thick almost as butter in summer time, arrange the salad as follows :—First pile the lettuce-leaves into a pyramid shape, with the cut lobitdv inside, supposing the salad to be a lobster one: if you have a lettuce with, a