xix PRINCIPLES—A BOAST LEG OF MUTTON. with a Httle cold water, and tlie whole is then briskly stirred with a spoon, brought to a boil, and poured over the meat This is the ordinary elementary and most uns'cientilic method of thickening gravy. There are many small families where the master of the house goes out early every morning, returning home to supper, and where but one joint is cooked a week—viz., the Simday early dinner. The leg of mutton is the usual joint, and is invariably prepared in the way we have described. Now, there ai-e thousands of pei-sons who prefer a leg of mutton cooked this way to any other, just as they would prefer a lettuce with half a pint of vinegar with it, to one cli-essed with mayomiaise sauce from the hands of a Soy&r. It is, perhaps, as weU that all our tastes are not alike. The proper method of serving up the gravy is as follows:—Avoid two things, viz., flour and grease. Have you ever seen a spoon dipped in the gravy of a joint, and lifted ? On one side a film of fat hangs. Now, when I see this, the effect on the appetite is exactly similar to a sudden lurch on board ship, when, after a little misgiving, you have taken your seat in the cabin at breakfast. We will suppose the leg, as before, sufficiently roasted. Then take the dripping-pan cai-efully, and pour off slowly from a corner of the di'ipping-pan all the fat into a small basin. At the bottom of the clear hot fat or dripping in the drippiiag-pan will be seen a brown sediment. This is really the concentrated gravy, and the cook's object is to pour off all the gi-ease and yet retain the sediment. With a little care this can be done easily. Next place the di-ipping-pan imder the boiler- tap, and pour about half a pint or a little more of boiling water into it, and with an iron spoon simply wash off all the brown streaks and spots on the dripping-pan. These brown marks are really gravy dried up from the action of the heat, and very much resemble in composition what is known as extract of meat. Having stirred up all the water thoroughly in the well of the dripping-pan, the gravy can now be pom^ed through a sti-ainer over the joint. This gravy should be clear and bright, and very nearly free from fat. Of coiirse, some little amount of fat is unavoidable, and this will make its appearance in the shape of wafers during the cooling process which takes place during carving, but if proper care has been exercised the gravy will not be speedily covered with large cakes of fat, nor will that dreadful hanging from the spoon take place, with the result of setting you against your dimier almost before you commence. Some will say, however, " Ah, but you can't get the mutton nice and brown without flouring it at the finish!" First, I deny the fact if the fire is really a fierce one; secondly, if you use flour to brown the joint, I would suggest that it is quite possible to flour the joint without flouring the dripping-pan, by simply taking the latter away, and placing a tin under the meat for a little while. The joint can then be dredged, and pushed closer to the fire at the finishing of the roasting to brown, while the cook goes on with the gravy in the manner we have pointed out. I have here again given the ordinary common way in which most cooks in fairly well-to-do families cook a joint. The gravy to a haunch, loin, or saddle of mutton is obtained in exactly the same manner. It is, however, an improvement to substi- tute a little broth—I don't mean stock—for the boiling water; for instance, if there are some trimmings from the joint, including a good-sized bone, place these on the fire in a saucepan with some water and a pinch of salt, and let them simmer as long as you like, taking care there is little or no grease on the top, and use this to pout- into the dripping-pan instead of the plain boiling water. If the gravy is wished to be particularly good, stock, i.e., broth made from meat, flavoured with onion parsley, celery, &c., may be used in the case of a joints of beef, but it is re^y