cassell's cookery. Ixx will at once pi-.-xseed to discuss that great event of the day, and will run Ijiieflv through the general jirinciples to be observed in serving a dinner for say ten or more persons. DINNER. We -will first have a few words to say on that somewhat neglected Englisn accomi)animent, appetisei-s." First appearances go a great way, and the cook shouid exercise all her art and taste in presenting that delicate organ, the stomach, with a hon houche to induce it tc> throw out its gastric juice with no sparing hand, in order to dissolve and digest all the glories that are to follow. Perhaps the very best com- mencement to a good dinner is half a dozen native oysters—small, round, white, plump, and fat, and resting on a little shell black almost on the outside, but like mother-of-pearl when the delicious little fish has been swallowed. Brown bread and buttsr Is often sex'ved with oysters; but when eaten as an appetiser at the commence- ment of dinner they should be eaten quite alone-—no pep]>er, no vinegar, &c. Little natives are excellent appetisers : the large coarse oysters, though admirably adai)ted for stewing and for a variety of cooking purposes, have rather a contrary effect. In France it is customary to have little dishes of what we term appetisers placed in front of each person. I will mention a few of the best:—Olives, sardines, pieces of Dutch herrings, filleted anchovies, capers, and small radishes. There is one little appetiser, so pretty and yet so effective, and so admii-abl}' adapted to commence a dinner, that I will describe it. First cut out some small round pieces of stale bread the size of small draughtsmen, and fry them of a nice golden-brown colour in some lard, and allow them to get cold. Next stone some olives neatly, and fillet and carefully wash some anchovies. Roll up the filleted anchovies into a little ball, and fill the stoned olives with them. Next place a little drop of mayonnaise sauce about the size of the top of the little finger in the centre of each round of fried bread, and place the stoned olive filled with the filleted anchovy on it on end; the mayonnaise sauce, if made properly, viz., as thick a.s butter, assisting to keep the olive upright. Then place on the top of the olive another little piece {very small) of mayonnaise sauce. Tlie whole should be eaten at one mouthful. The mingled flavour of the anchovy and olive, moistened as it is with the mayonnaise sauce, is exceedingly delicious, the crisp fried bread assisting to bring out the flavour. These pretty little appetisers may be handed round, and a little highly-flavoured aspic jelly may be placed by way of garnish on the dish with them. We next come to the soup, which we presume the cook to have prepared the day before it is ?/anted. As a rule, it will always be found best to have clear soup, ie., if only one soup is supplied. A thick soup at the commencement of dinner is too heavy, and is apt to spoH the appetite for what is to follow. For instance, thick mock-turtle or thick ox-tail soup are admirable for lunch, but at dinner are far better clear than thick. Should there be two soups, of coui-se one should be clear and the other thick, but, as a rule, even then the thick soup should be in the form of a white soup or a bisque, rather than a thick soup that owes its thickness to brown roux. Clear turtle is far superior to thick, both in flavour and in tlie faci that it does not take away the appetite so readily. Next follows the fish. If only one is served at dinner, regard should be had to what goes before and what follows after. For instance, a rich soup had better be followed by a plain fish. Indeed, the gi-eat jn-inciple to be constantly borne in