( 299 ) HAM HAR any discoloured parts. Trim and roll it neatly and firmly, and bind it with tapes. Put k into plenty of cold water, remove the scum carefully, and let it boil until no more rises, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently luitil done enough. If two or three carrots and onions are boiled with the beef, the flavour will be im- proved. Strew grated bread-crumbs over it before serving. Time, as a general rule half an hour may be given for each pound, after the water has boiled. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, beef weighing seven pounds for twelve persons. Hamburg Pickle.—Take a gallon of water, that has been boiled. Mix with it two pounds and a half of common salt, a pound and a half of moist sugar, an ounce of salt- petre, and half a pint of vinegar. Simmer for twenty minutes, skim carefully, and, when cold, put in the beef, which should be turned every day, and will be ready for smoking in three weeks. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient, for five quarts of pickle. Hamburg Pickle (Improved). If bay salt be substituted for the common salt in the last recipe, the fiavour of the meat will be much improved, though the expense will be slightly increased. This pickle will remain good for nearly twelve mcnths if it is boiled again occa- sionally, with a httle more salt, saltpetre, and sugar, to make up for waste. Hampshire Pudding (sometimes called Hertfordshire Pudding).—Line the edge of a pie-dish with good puif-paste. Spread some jam at the bottom of the dish, about an inch thick. Beat the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs, thoroughly. Add to them three ounces of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted, and three ounces of melted butter. Boat these together imtil they are quite thick, pour the mixture over the jam, and bake in a moderate oven till the pastry is baked. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Hannah More's Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely, mix with it half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a quarter of a pound of chopped apples, weighed after they are pared and cored. Add a pinch of salt, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, two ounces of candied-lemon, chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir into them four well-beaten eggs and two table- spoonfuls of brandy. Pour into a well-buttered mould, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 3 hours. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for four or five persons. Hanover Buns. —Mix a large table- spoonful of fresh yeast with three table-spoon- fuls of warm milk, add a quarter of a pound of fine flour, and leave it to rise. Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, add a pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of sugar, half a pound of flour, and the thin rind of a lemon minced as small as possible. Moisten this with the yolks of three and the white of one egg, add the yoast, &c., and beat it well with the hand until air-bubbles begin to rise. The dough should be of the usual consistency. Make it into small cakes, and set them on a buttered tin a little distanoa from each other. Put them in a warm place, and, when nicely risen, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a good oven till brightly browned. Strew a little powdered sugar over them before serving. If fresh yeast cannot be obtained, three-quarters of an ounco of German yeast may be substituted for it. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for a dozen buns. Hanover Sauce (suitable for fowls, &c). —Soak the thin rind of half a lemon in half a pint of cream for an hour or more. Boil the liver, and pound it in a mortar, with a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice and a little salt and cayeime. Add the strained cream. Stir it over the -fire for a few minutes. It must not boil. Serve in a tureen. Probable cost; Is. Sufficient for three or fom- persons. Harbour Balls.—Put one pint of milk and one ounce of butter into a saucepan, and when the butter is melted, pour the milk over two pounds of fiour. Make up into a stifl:' dough, and add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of yeast mixed with a well-beaten egg. Cover the bowl wdth a cloth, and let it remain on the hearth for half an hour, then make it into smaU round balls, place them at a little distance from each other on buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three dozen balls. Hard, or Suffolk Dumplings.—Put a salt-spoonful of salt into a pound of flour, and mix it with as much water as will make it into a stiff paste. Divide the paste into half a dozen balls, dip these in flour, throw them into a pan of fast-boiling water, and let them boil for three- quarters of an hour. Put a little butter in the middle of each ball, or send gravy to table with them. Probable cost, 2d. Sufficient for six persons. {See also Dumplings, Plain.) ^ Hare, Baron of (a German recipe).—In Gei-many a hare is frequently made up into two dishes, and may be served at diflierent times, which, when the family is small, is often a con- venience. The baron, which consists of the back and thighs, is the superior dish, and it is this to which the present recipe refers. Directions for cooking the inferior parts will be given in a succeeding paragraph {see Hare Pepper). Divide the hare into two parts, cutting close to the shoulder-blades. Leave the kidneys in the loins, and remove the thin skin from the back. Rub the hare over with moist sugar, and leave it for three or four hours, then put it into a deep dish with a finely-minced onion, a bay- leaf, a dozen juniper berries, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it remain in this mari- nade for two days, turning and basting it fre- quently. Drain it and lard it in neat rows with thin strips of bacon. Put it down before a clear fire until it is nicely browned, then put it into a stewpan with the marinade, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonftil of pepper, and the contents of the dripping-pan taken fi-om under it. Cover the saucepan closely, and le t the meat steam untU tender, basting frequently during