PRINCIPLES—FRYING. depends upon its being served quickly. Probably the souffle, if it is two inches above the edge of the tin when it leaves the oven, will sink nearly level with the top before it reaches the table. This cannot be helped, but everything that saves time must be thought of beforehand. For instance, some people delay to pin a dinner- napkin round the tin. Of course the best plan is to have a silver-plated souffl6-case, and then there is no occasion for any delay. These, however, are rare. Have a piece of clean white ornamented paper with a frill ready, and let there be plenty of room. Now the souffle very often bulges out at the top, and there is no room to put the paper over the tin. Don't let this, however, put you out. Drop the tin into the round paper, which should not be higher than the edge of the tin; but whatever you do, or however you do it, be quick; have a hot cover ready to pop on, and i-un with it to the dinner-table. The next point to consider is, Why did the souffle rise ? Because of the air- bubbles. It is easy to whisk the whites of eggs into a foam, but not the yolks. By separating the whites, therefore, and beating them up separately, we increased our number of aii"-bubbles to an enormous extent. These bubbles expand with the heat, hence the lightness of the souffle. On the other hand, as the souffle cools, the bubbles contract, the souffle goes down, and a cold souffle would be as heavy as a hot one is light. Now the principle is the thing to grasp. For instance, in making a cake, you want, of course, to make it light; therefore remember the souffle—i.e., beat the whites up sepai-ate from the yolks. This will have the effect of considerably lightening the cake, though, of course, as the process of baking a large cake is slower than that of baking a souffle, the cake would not rise in anything like the same proportion. Another important point on which we ought to examine into the principles of cooking, is that of frying. There are probably few dishes that test the cook's capabilities, mox*e important than that of frying. Contrast for one moment the discoloiu'ed dish, too often met with in private houses, in which, say, a " little bit of fish " is sent up, and presents what may be called a parti-coloured appearance. Some pai-t is burned black as a cinder; another part looks the colour of underdone pie-crust. Again, other parts may present the appearance of having those bald patches, as if the cook had accidentally spilled some boiling water on a cat's back. I say contrast this with the beautifully rich, golden-coloui-ed dish that will make its appearance at the table where the master-mind of one like Francatelli has presided, or with a dish that one would meet with in a Parisian caffe—the bright silver dish contrasting temptingly with the golden-coloured food and the crisp, dark-green parsley piled in the centre. What now is the difficulty 1 To keep to our subject, viz., the principles of cooking, we will briefly state that the generality of cooks find their difficulty to exist as follows :—They cannot obtain a nice colour without over-cooking their fish. The ordinary way in which cooks will prepare a fried sole (and we presume they will know something of their art) is, having dried the fish and floured it, they dip it in egg well beaten up, covering it over with some fine dried bread-crumbs, and having given it a gentle tap all round, somewhat resembling a young mother getting her first baby to sleep, they place the fish in the frying-pan, in which a dab of butter or dripping has been placed. One side is cooked before the other is commenced, part of the fried egg and bread-cinimb peels off in turning, and the result, both in appear- ance and flavour, is most unappetising. Having now described how not to do it, let me proceed to explain how to do it. First, the colour. Order in from your baker's a small bag of nice rich, golden, brown