BEE BEH mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a little of the beer, iind acid it to the remainder with the £?rdted peel of half a lemon, half a tea-spoon- ful of powdered ginger, cinnamon, or nutmeg, and su'mrto taste ; boil the milk septu-ately and atir it ^rapidly with a whisk into four well-beaten eggs; put the beer with the milk into a sauce- pan, bring it to the point of boiling, keeping it woU stii-red aU the time, and tui-n it quicKly into a tureen. Serve ^\•ith toasted rolls. Time, about half an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 9d. per quai't. Sufficient for twelve persons. Beer Soup with Sago.—Wash two ounces of stigo in cold water, drain and boil it in thi-ee pints of ale that is not bitter, add a stick of cinnamon or a few cloves, the thin rind of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; boil twenty minutes, strain, and add, just before serving, the half of a thinly-sKced lemon and a glass of brandy or rum. Probable cost, lOd., without the spirits. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Beer, To remove acidity from.—Add one pint of ground malt to about eighteen gallons of beer; it should b« enclosed in a bag and hung, not thrown, to lie at the bottom; or, mix as much wheat or bean flour with a quart of brandy as will form a dough. Long pieces of this dough, put into the bunghole, will sink gently to the bottom and keep the beer mellow as well as improve its quality. Carbonate of soda will remove sourness from beer, but care should be taken not to add too much or it will have a dead insipid flavour. Beetroot, Baked. — Cleanse the root I carefully from the mould about it, as directed j for boUing, and bake in a moderate oven until tender. We do not, however, like the baking I of this vegetable, as it is apt to shiivel if ex- { posed to too great heat in an oven, and the colour becomes less bright. They are much better boiled. Probable cost, Id. to 2d. Bake till tender. Beetroot, Boiled. This root is excellent ' as a salad, and, as a garnish for other salads, it \ is very important on account of its beautiful j bright colour. In cleansing it before boiling, ! take care not to break the skin or it will lose its colour and become sickly looking. Eemove it from the saucepan carefully, peel and trim nicely. Serve, cut in slices, with melted butter ! in a tureen, or if not over large it may be sent to i table whole. A large one ynU. take from two i to three hours to boil. Probable cost from Id. ; to 2d. each. J Beetroot, Pickled.- Boil half an ounce of peppercorns, cloves, mace, and ginger, in a pint of vinegar, add another pint when cold. Take six beetroots, after they have been weU cleansed, and boil them gently for two hours. When cold, peel, slice, and put into a jar with the cold vinegar and spice. It is fit for use at once. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Beetroot Preserve.—Put into a pre- serving pan half a dozen nicely-peeled beetroots and a pint and a half of cold water, first cut- ' ing away the long tapering part, that they may lie_ better in the pan; let them come to a boil, and then simmer and skim for twenty minutes; add the following ingredients and boil faster for an hour more. Four pounds of good loaf sugar, well broken, the Juico of half a dozen lemons (strained), and the peel of four,, cut very small, some vanilla and cinnamon, about half a finger's length of each, and three or four- cloves. When boiling, sldm well, and. when quite tender put the beetroots into a jar, but leave the syrup to boil untU it is thick, when it may be strained over them. When a beautiful colour is wanted for creams, jellies, &c., this preserve and syrup will be fouad valuable. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Beetroot Salad.—To some niceiy-boiled and well-shccd beetroot, lay alternate rows of" fresh onion also shced, and pour over them any salad sauce, or simply oil and vinegar, if pre- ferred. Garnish with curled parsley. Pro- bable cost of beetroot, Id. to 2d. Instead oF the raw onions, cold boiled ones may be used, together with slices of egg, hard boiled. Beetroot Salad (another way).—Parboil a beetroot, remove the skin, cut it into thin slices, and stew with small onions in a little gravy- thickened -with flour and cream. Add a dessert- spoonful of vinegar, seasonings, and a little sugar. Spread the sliced beetroot on the dish, placing the onions between them. It is served cold with cheese, and with vinegar poui-ed over. Beetroot Soup.—Cleanse carefully, "boil, and peel two ,fine beetroots; boil also two onions and mince them together very finely. Take thi-ee or four table-spoonfuls of vinegai and one of brown sugar, with rather more than half a gallon of good gravy soup; add this to the mixture of beetroot and onion, and put it into a saucepan to boil, when some small piece* of cold veal or other meat, well covered with flour, may be boiled and served up in it. Pro- bable cost, without gravy, 6d. Time to boU, until the onions are tender. • Beetroot, Stewed.—Wash and boil, till tender, a medium-sized beetroot. Eemove the skin, and cut it into thin slices. Ivoll half an ounce of butter in flour, and melt it in rather more than half a pint of water, adding a table- spoonful of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the slices of beet into the liquid,^ cover the saucepan closely, and allow all to stew for an horn- and ten minutes. Care must be taken not to cut the beetroot before boiling, ae- the colour- would be desti'oyed by so doing- Serve the stew with a garnish of boiled button, onions. Bermuda Pudding.—Put a pint and a. half of fresh juicy fruit, raspberries, straw- berries, or red currants, into a jar with some sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water. Cover the jar, set it in a cool ovon, and let it remain until the juice flows freely, whon it- may be strained off. For a pint of juice put- three table-spoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot, into a cup and mix it to a smooth paste with a. tea-cupful of cold water, or fruit juice if it V5 to be had. Pour the boiling fruit upc«i it, stir it well, tlien put the mixture back into the saucepan, and stir again until it is quito thick. ' Take it off the fire and add (!r>clnn«il. to improve the colour. Pour the pvop-intior*