LALl LAM I 356 ) tablo-spoonful and a half of vinegar, an'l boil altogether for thvoo or four iiiimitos. Mix a table-spoonful of Hour smoothly with half a pint of good, nieely-llavoured stock ; add those to the vinegar, &c., and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving stir a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard and a dessert-spoonful of Harvey's sauce in with the rest, and keep the whole quite hot until the cutlets are ready. Trim these neatly, dip them twice, lirst into clariticd butter aud egg- crumbs, and afterwards into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry thorn in the usual way until thoy are lightly browned on both sides. Dish thenv in a circle, with the sauce poured over them. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to fry the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Lamb Cutlets and Spinach. — Pick the stalks from two pounds of spinach and wash it in several waters. Let it drain, then put it into plenty of boiling water, in which about a tablo-spoonful of salt has been thrown, keep pressing it down with a wooden spoon, and let it bon very quickly. Drain and squeeze the water from it, an I chop it very small. Put it into a saucepan with a little salt and popper, one ounce of butter, and two table-spoonfuls or half a gill of thick cream or rich gravy. Stir it without ceasing over the fire with a wooden spoon until it is quite hot throughout, and the moisture is absorbed. Keep it hot until the cutlets are ready. These may be trimmed, egged, bread-crumbed, and broiled or fried in the usual way [sec Lamb Chops, Broiled, and Lamb Chops Fried). Press the spinach into a mould, turn it on a hot dish, and place the cutlets round it in an upright position, one overlapping the other. Time, ten minutes to boU. the spinach. Probable cost, cutlets. Is. per pound ; spinach, 2d. per pound. Sufficient, about two pounds of spinach will be requii-ed for half a dozen chops. Lamb Cutlets, Cold.—AVhen a loin or any other joint of lamb has been under-dressed, it is a good plan to divide it into cutlets of a neat shape and fully thi-ee-quarters of an inch in thickness, to dip these in beaten egg, strew over nicely-flavoui-cd bread-crumbs, and fry or broil them until lightly browned on both sides. As there is a danger that the meat wiU be dry when it is dressed the second time, care should be taken not only to cook the cutlers over a good fire, but also to dip them into a little clarified butter before broiling them. Time, five or six minutes to cook. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen cutlets for three persons. Lamb Cutlets or Chops Stewed in their own Gravy.—Take a thick iron saucepan—if possible, one sufficiently largo to take all the cutlets in one layer—put a little cold water in it, though not nearly suflicient to cover the cutlets, and after dipping these into cold water, peppering, and afterwards flouring them, put tliom into the pan, place them on a moderate fin;, and let them simmer as gently as possible until they are done enough. Throw a tea-spoonful of salt over them as soon as they begin to Biinmer, and serve all the gravy in the dish witli them. The great secret of stowing cutlets in this way is to let them sinuuer gently. Jf buiiud quickly there will bo no gravy left when tliey are to be taken oli, and the meat will be lurd. Skiui the fat oli carefully before serving. Time to simmer, an hour. Probable cost. Is. per jjound. (Sufficient, half a dozen cutlets for two or tlu-ee persons. Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (some- times called Lamb Cutlets, a la Prinajsse).— Trim and shape some land; cutlets neatly, and fry them plainly Lamb Chops, Piied), lettin- them be rather under-dressed tlrnn otherwis' . When half cold dip each cutlet into some gooil melted butter, flavoui-ed with mushrooms. Plac. them upon ice to set the sauce, and afterwar<Ls egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in the usual way, and serve with asparagus, green peas, or any other vegetables. Good white sauce should h<: sent to table in a tureen. Time, twenty minutes altogether to cook the cutlets—ten minntes each time. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen for three persons. Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (another way).—Take a table-spoonful of each of the following ingredients, aU finely minced:— Parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and lean ham. Put these into a stewjjan with an ounce of fresh butter, and stir them over the fire for five nrunutes. Add a quarter of a ,pint of sauce, a little pepper and salt, half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, three grates of nntmeg, and the- yolks of two eggs. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens, but it must not boil. Par- tially fry the cutlets, as in the last recipe; when nearly cold dip them into the above preparation, and place them upon ice until the sauce is set. Dip the cutlets in egg and afterwards in bread-, crumbs; fry, and serve them -with a puree of spinach or green peas. Time, twenty minutes to fry the cutlets—ten minutes each time The above quantity of sauce is sufficient for a dozen cutlets Probable cost. Is. per pound. Lambj Fore Quarter of, To Roast. —This joint can scarcely be too fresh when dressed. Eemove the scrag, the shankbone, and the chinebone; and crack the ribs half-way between the edge of the breast and the spine. Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste plentifully from the time of its being wanned through to that when it is ready for the table. Like all yoimg meat, lamb should be very thoroughly cooked. About ten minutes before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cayenne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs they may be ready for being laid between the two. Tliis separation is sometimes effected before the joint .is sent to table, but, of course, this must depend upon the wish of the carver. Serve the lamb with a cut paper ruffle on the shankbone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Jlint sauce and salad generally accompany this dish. Time, a fore-quarter of lamb, weighing ten jiounds, will require from two hours to two hours and a half. Tlie weather and the