FAB ( 609 ) FAB of pai-tridges, 38. per brace. Sufficient for four persons. Fartridges, Broiled (another way).— Prepai-e the pailridgos as in the last recipe, sprinkle over them a little salt and cayenne, then dip them t%vice into clarified butter and very tine bread-crumbs, taking great care that the bii-ds are entirely covered. Place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broU them gently. Send them to table on a hot dish, with brown sauce or mushroom sauce in a tirreen. Time to broil the partridges, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3s. per brace. Suffi- cient for foirr persons. Fartridges, Chartreuse of.—Boil some carrots and turnips separately, and cut them into pieces two inches long and three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Braise two small sxtm- mer cabbages, or a savoy, drain them well, and stir them over the fire imtil they are quite dry; then roll them on a cloth, and cut them into pieces about two inches long and an inch thick. Eoast a brace of partridges, and cut them into neat joints. Butter a plain entree mould; line it at the bottom and the sides with buttered paper, and afterwards fit in the pieces of caiTot and turnip, to form a sort of wall; then fill it lip with the cabbage and the pieces of partridge in alternate layers. Steam the chartreuse to make it hot; turn it out of the mould upon an entree dish and garnish with turnips, carrots, and French beans. Send some good brown sauce to table with it. Time, half an hour to roast the partridges; two hours to braise the cabbage ; steam the chartreuse until it is quite hot. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fartridges, Choosing. — Partridges should be chosen young: when the legs are yellow, the bills shai-p and dark- coloured, and the under feathers of the wings PABTMDOE. pointed. If the vent is stifiF, the bird is fresh, and if it is green and discoloured, the bird has been killed some time. The legs turn grey as the bird grows older. Old partridges are not good for much. The season for the common partridge lasts from September to February. Fartridges, Cold, Sauce for.—Boil an egg untU it is quite hard. Let it get cold, then rub it well with the back of a wooden spoon, and with it the flesh of a very small anchovy, from which the bones and skin have been removed, also a finely-minccd shallot, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne. When the dry ingredients are thoroughlj' blended, add, very gradually, two table-spoon- fuls of oil and tlu-ce tablo-si)oonfula of vinegar. Strain the sauce through muslin, and serve. Time, ten minutes to boil the egg. Probable cost, id. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fartridges, Mayonnaise of.—Roast a brace of partridges, cut them into neat joints, and put them aside for a few minutes. Boil two eggs for ten minutes, put them into cold water, and when they are cold take out the yolks, put them into a basin, and rub them smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Add a small quantity each of salt, pepper, and mixed mustard, then very gradually four table-spoonfuls of oil, one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly, or failing this, good stock. If liked, the jelly or stock can be omitted. Put the partridges on a dish, pour the mayon- naise gently over them to cover them, and place a few hearts of freshly cut cabbage lettuce round them. Grarnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quaiters length- wise, and slices of boiled beetroot. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fartridges, Fie of.—Pluck, draw, and singe three young partridges, and di-\dde them into halves, lengthwise. Mince the livei'S finely, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and as much powdered mace as will cover a threepenny-piece; then put the forcemeat into the birds, and a piece of fresh butter, the size of a walnut, in each half Butter a shallow pie-dish, and line the edges with a good crust. Lay a slice of lean veal at the bottom, and season lightly with salt, pepper, and powdered mace. Wiap the birds in thin slices of fat bacon, pack them closely, breast downwards, upon the veal, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of good veal stock. Cover the dish with the pastry, ornament it prettily, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. This is a savoury dish, suitable either for breakfast, supper, or luncheon. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Gs. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Fartridges, Fie of (another way) .—Pluck, di-aw, and singe a brace of young partridges, and season them, inside and out, with a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Cover them with thin rashers of fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of veal stock, or water; put on the lid, and let them simmer as gently as possible for half an hour. Whilst they are simmering, make a forcemeat, by mincing together, very finely, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, and a quarter of a pound of liver. Sea- son this with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, and spread half of the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish. Take out the birds, and cut them into quarters. Lay half of the bacon which was tied round them upon the forcemeat, then pack in the partridges, and cover them with the remainder of the forcemeat and bacon-