( 400 ) MAi MAQ eight ounces of fine ttom-, well dried. Blanch uiul slicii thinly two oimcoH of Bwoot almonda, and the same of candiiid orango-pool. Stir thu orauno-poel into tho maHH, but scatter tho ahnonda ovur tho insido of a buttered cako-tiii, whicii till with tho mixture, putting more almonds over tho top. The cake should be put into the oven quickly. Time, about an hour to l)ake; half an hour to boat tho mixtiu'o. Probable cost, 2s. Magentas.—Break twelve fresh eggs, hut separate tho yolks from the whites. Put tho yolks into a Ifu-go bowl, and whip up oiglit of tho whites in a basin. Add to the yolks two ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, half tho weight of bruised orange-flowers, and a poimd of fine sugar. Mash these ingredients with a wooden spoon, working them briskly for some time, when their appearance should be creamy and as smooth as custard. Now mix in three-quarters of a pound of fine tloui- with six ounces of butter, dissolved, but not oiled, and, lastly, the frothed whites of the eggs. Bake tho biscuits in smaU tins, well buttered and strewn with chopped almonds; cover also the top of the biscuits with almonds and powdered sugar. Bake in a moderate oven of a hght coloui-. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Magnum Bonum, or other large Plums, Conipote of.—Take oflE the stalks, and ^vipe the fruit. Simmer a pound of the plums in a syrup, made with six ounces of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, and according to the variety and acidity of fruit, add more sugar if required. Stew very gently for twenty minutes. Time, ten minutes to boil the sjTup. Magnum Bonum Jam.—The magnum bonum is the largest of our plums, and is ex- cellent for jam and for other purposes. Choose the fruit when fully ripe. Take ofiE the skins, remove the stones, and boil the plums gently for forty minutes, keeping them well stirred all the time to prevent their burning; add thi'ee pounds of sugar in lumps for every four pounds of fruit and boil ten minutes longer. Three or four minutes before the jjim is taken from the fire, add quarter of the kernels blanched and sliced. Probable cost of plums, 6d. per dozen. Magnum Bonum Plums, To Pre- serve.—Take fine whole fruit, ripe and ^vithout bruise; peel and open them only just enough to extract the stones ; handle them lightly, so that the juice may not be drawn and lost. Weigh the plums, and strew over each pound of fruit, placed on a flat diah, one pound of good powdered sugar, and cover them for twelve hours. Put them into a preserving-pan with tho sugar; boil very gently (or the fruit will shrivel) for about half an hour. If the plums look clear, lift them out carefully with a spoon and put them into jars. Crush tho stones, blanch and split the kernels, put some with the syrup (tho quantity must depend on taste),but they are generally thought to impart a delicious flavour to the preserve ; boil the syrup rapidly until a little put upon a plate will set, then pour it over the plums in the jars. This recipe will serve for largo plums in general, and for apricots. Magnum Bonum Plums, To Pre- serve (another way;.—-bVt Plums, ila-num Boniini. Maids of Honour.—Judicious diotse- cakes so called at iiiclmiond, where they are to bo had in perfection. We think the following recipe genuine :—Beat two eggs, and mix them with a quart of new milk; add the eggs and milk to a quart of lioiling water in a saucepan; pour in lemon-juice, and remove tho curd, as it rises, to a sieve to drain; mix the curd with tho yolks of four eggs, previously well beaU^u, a large cupful of clotted cream, the rijid of a lemon, rubbed off on sugar, a httlo pounded cinnamon, a quarter of a nutmeg, gmted, six ounces of cun-ants, well washed and di-ied, and a glass of brandy. Mix well, and bake in patty-pans, buttered and lined with a hght French puff paste. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for twenty-four cheesecakes. Maids of Honour, Plain.—Beat an oimce and a half of fresh butter, and a break- fast cupful of well drained milk curd together, until smooth; add an egg, and a cupful of milk beaten together, and sugar to sweeten: with the latter rub off the rind of a lemon, or sub- stitate any other flavouring preferred. Bake in patty-pans, lined with half puff paste rolled very thin. Time, ten to twelve minutes to bake. Maintenon Cutlets (Gouffe's method).— Leave two bones to each cutlet, and remove one of them. Split open without separating at the top. Spread a little D'Uxelles sauce inside, refold them, then broil four minutes on each side. Spread a little D'Uxelles on a dish, lay the cutlets on this, and pour D'Uxelles sauce over. Place in a hot oven for four minutes, and serve. D'Uxelles may be made by frjdng equal quantities of chopped mushroom, shallot, parsley, and lean ham in butter for five minutes. D'Uxelles sauce is this preparation with good brown sauce stirred into it. Maitre d'flotel Butter.—Knead to. gether (on a plate and with the point of a knife) equal quantities of chopped parsley and fresh butter. Add pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. Keep in a cool place. When a dish is said to be a la Maitre d'Hotel it is generally served with this butter. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce.— Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a small enamelled saucepan and stir to it, by degrees, two tea- spoonfuls of flour; continue stirring for five or ten minutes, until the butter and flour are well blended, when add, also by degrees, a quarter of a pint of boiling cream and a quarter of a pint of good veal stock, also boiUng; add a few spoonfuls of each at a time, and stir well, allowing the sauce to simmer a minute or two between each addition. "Wlien perfectly smooth, put in the strained juice of a lemon, or, if prefeiTcd, a table-spoonful of chili vinegar, a little pepper, or cayenne, or a pinch of »ilt, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. The volks of two eggs arc a great improvement to this Bauce, and are almost necessary when it w