ALM ALM white of egg. Place a strip of blanched al- mond in the middle of each cake, and do not let them bake too bro-vsTi. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Almond Candy (or Hardbake).— Boil one pound of sugar and half a pint of water until it becomes brittle when dropped in cold water; then add a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and split, the juice of half a lemon, and one ounce of butter. Boil until the candy hardens at once in the water. Pour it out on a well-oiled dish. When cold, it may be taken off the plate and kept for use in a tin box. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 7d. Almond Cheesecakes.—Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet and five or six bitter almonds with a few drops of water ; add a quarter of a pound of sugar rubbed with lemon-rind, a spoonful of cream, a small piece of butter, and the whites of two eggs thoroughly TABTLET-TINS. whisked. Mix, and fill small tartlet-tins, lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Almond Chocolate Drops. — Put a metal mortar in a hot oven till it is well heated, throw into it a quarter of a potmd of cake chocolate, broken into small pieces; pound it to a paste, then mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted sugsir. Blanch, slice, and dry in a cool oven, two ounces of sweet almonds; roll each slice smoothly in a little of the choco- late paste, and put them upon sheets of writing- paper till they are cold. Time to prepare, about one hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a pound of drops. Almond Creams. — Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds to a paste; put to this loaf sugar to taste, rubbed with lemon-rind, and pounded. Rub smoothly a dessert spoonful of corn-flour into a quart of milk, or if it is to bo had use a pint and a half of cream; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Put the whole, when well mixed, into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and stir constantly until it thickens; but on no account allow it to boil. The whites of the eggs may be whisked, and a little placed on the top of each glass. Time, about ten minutes to boil the cream. Probable cost, with milk, Is. 3d. Sufficient for a dozen custard-glasses. Almond Cream Ice. — Blanch and pound two oimces of sweet ahmonds with a tea-spoonful of rose-water and a little loaf sugar; add gradually a quart of cream, and boil gently for a few minutes. Let it cool slowly, and place it in the ice-pail. Servo with spongo- ^kes. Time to freeze, about half an hour. Probable cost, 38, 6d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Almond Croquantes. — Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with half a pound of sugar rubbed on the rind of half a lemon, and a glass of white wine. Add a quarter of a pound of butter and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all into a stiff paste, roll out, cut it into diamonds, stars, &c., and bake these in a quick oven. Dip them for a minute into boiling sugar, and let them drain until cool. Keep them in a dry place, and they will be useful to garnish any kind of sweet dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Almond Custard.—Place in a saucepan over the fire a pint of new milk or cream, with a few lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and four bitter almonds. Let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Blanch and pound two oujices of sweet almonds, with a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Mix the ingredients well together, and add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Stir the custard gently over a moderate fire until it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil; and pour into glasses. Probable cost, made with milk, 9d. Sufficient for six or seven glasses. Almond Custard (anotherway).—Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet and five or six bitter almonds, and add a table-spoonful of rose or orange-water to prevent oiling. Mix gra- dually with this a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire gently till it thickens, or it may be baked in cups, if pre- ferred. Time, ten minutes to boil. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for nine or ten glasses. Almond Darioles.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it the same weight of flour, a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, four well-whisked eggs, and a little chopped lemon-peel. Mix all well together, and then add, a drop at a time, a little essence of almond, to suit the taste; too much of the essence will make the dish disagreeable. Stir over the fire for ten minutes. Line dariole moulds with tartlet paste, fill them three parts with the batter, and bake in a quick oven until the pastry is sufficiently ready. Turn the darioles out of the moulds, strew sifted sugar over them, and serve. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sufficient to fill about half a dozen dariole moulds. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Almond Diamonds.—Blanch and pound six ounces of sweet almonds ; add six ounces of finely-sifted sugar, and mix them to a stiff paste with some white of egg. Strew a little sugar on the board, and roll out the paste to the thickness of a penny-piece, then stamp it into diamonds with a pastry-cutter. Bake in a cool oven, and when cold, brush them over with a little syrup, strew sugar over them, and dry them in the oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for about two dozen diamonds. Almond-Dust, Burnt.—This is made by pounding any quantity of blanched sweet almonds, which have been thoroughly browned