( 438 ) MTTT? MTJS thick. Creaa ulmost invui-iubly accompunios this aalad horb. Mustard and Cress for Breakfast. —Tho crcsa is un exuoodiiigly wliolesomo horb, which from ita pungent quality promotoa and aasiats diguation. It ia generally aorvud in Iho centre of a dish, surroundiid with white and red radishes. Wo would reconuueud, for weak digestions the eresa without tlio accompani- ment. Put a anmll saltcellar in tho centre of a plate, and serve the cress around it. Mustard, Indian {see Indian Mustai-d). Mustard, Mixing of. — It should be made witli boiling water, and only in sufficient quantity to last a day or two at most; if kept longer, the top of the mustard-pot should be fitted with a glass stopper, but fresh-made mustard is preferable. Put a little salt before mixing, and rub it quite smooth with the back of a spoon. Foreign mustard is to be had of any respectable grocer, but a particular flavour may be given to mustard by moistening with shallot, tarragon, garlic, or any spiced vinegar, instead of water. Mustard Sauce.—Blend together on a plate thi-ee ounces of butter with a dessert- spoonful of browned flour, half the quantity of the best Durham mustard, and a little salt. Stir these ingredients, when smoothly mixed, into a quarter of a pint of boiling water, and simmer five minutes. Add enough vinegar to flavour, and serve as a sauce for fresh heriings. Mustard, Tartar.—Moisten, with equal quantities of horseradish and chilli vinegar, a quarter of a pound of the best mustard, to which a tea-spoonful of salt has been mixed. Add the liquids gradually, and rub -vnth. the back of a spoon until smooth. Less chilli vinegar, and a little tarragon, if approved, will make an excellent mustard; or more horse- radish vinegar may be used, while the other vinegar is diminished in quantity. Sufficient, a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Mutton.—This is the flesh of the sheep. The best mutton, and that from which most nourishment is obtained, is that of sheep of from three to six years old, and which have been fed on dry sweet pastures. The flesh of sheep which have been reared on salt marshes, or on farms near the sea-coast, is also sweet and wholesome; the saline pai-ticles abounding in 3uch situations imparts both firmness and a fine flavour. To suit the palate of an epicure, a sheep should never be killed earlier than ils fifth year, at which age the mutton ^^^ll be foimd firm and succulent, dark-coloured, and fiill of the richest gi-avy. Mutton of two years old is flabby, pale, and savourless. To ascertain the age of mutton the following directions may bo given:—Observe the colours of the breast- bone when a sheep is dressed, that is, where the breastbone is separated. In a lamb, or before the sheep is one year old, it will be quite red ; from one to two years old, the upper and lower bones will be changing to white, and a small circle of white will appear round tho edge of the other bones, and the mirtdle part of the breastbone will yet continue red; at three years old, a very small streak of white will be seen in the middle of the four middle bones, and the others will Ijo white ; and at four years old, all the broastbonea will be of a white or gristly cohjur. The live weight with the offal of a largo fat weddor, and tho joints when cut up for market, are about as follows :— r. . , at. 11*. Liive weight . . .13 IbB. Jilood and entrails , . .13 Caul and loose fat. . . .21 Head and pluck ... 8 Pelt 15 Carcattn. First fore-quarter . . . .29 Second „ .... 28 First hind-quai-ter . . . ;j3 Second „ .... 32 Joints of one side. Haunch Loin Neck Shoulder Breast . Loss 10 oz. 0 4 12 12 0 12 8 0 23 10 12 10 4 0 0 4 0 12 8 12 Mutton (InvalidCookery) Whenmutton is tender it is the meat best adapted for invalida and persons whose digestive organs are not of the strongest. The best and most nourishing cutlets are those cut out of the centre of the leg. Mutton, Australian, and Stewed Carrots {see Australian Mutton, &c.). Mutton, A-ustralian, Boiled, and Caper Sauce {see Australian Mutton, &c.). Mutton, Breast of. Boiled.—Take out the bones, gristle, and some of the fat; flatten it on the pasteboard, and cover the surface thinly with a forcemeat composed of bread- crumbs, minced savoury herbs, a Httle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and an egg, to bind. The forcemeat should not be spread too near the edge, and when roUed, the breaat should be tied securely, to keep the forcemeat in its place. If gently boiled, and sent to table hot, and smothered with good caper sauce, it will bo generally liked. Time, two hours to boil. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Mutton, Breast of. To Collar.—Skin the breast, and free it entirely from bone and gristle. When flat on the board, cover it with beaten egg, and have ready a forcemeat com- posed of the following ingredients :—A large cupful of bread-crumbs, some chopped parsley, a blade of poimded mace, two cloves, the peel of half a lemon, chopped as small as possible, a couple of anchovies, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs. Mix and pound in a mortar, adding pepper and salt to taste. Cover the breast with the forcemeat, roll it firmly, tie with tape, and put it into a stewpan with boiling water, and simmer gently until tender, or bake, if preferred. To boil, two hours; to bake, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 7d. to 8d. per poimd. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Mutton, Breast of, with Peas. —Cut about two pounds of the breast of mutton into