( 132 ) CHI CHI pour iho saueo over them; {^urniHli with thiii aliccs of beetroot cut into Bhupoa with uu ordi- nary pastry cutter, hard-boiled eggs cut into slices or quarters, and a little green parsley between the pieces of egg. A chicken siila'd neatly and tastefully armnged has a good ap- pearance, and is generally a welcome dish. Time to boil the chicken, half an hour. Probable cost: chicken, 28. Gd.; salad and dressing, Is. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken Salad, Rich.—Boil a large chicks^ i ntil quite tender, and, when it is cold, pick oil the moat in small pieces. Take as much celery as there is chicken, and cut it into pieces about an inch long, put it in a little water to make it crisp, then dxain and dry it thoroughly. Put the yolk of one egg into a large basin, and beat well with a silver fork until it begins to feel thick. Add first a heaped tea-spoonful of mustard, and afterwards six tea- spoonfuls of oil, putting in the first two tea- spoonfuls by thi'ee drops at a time, and beating the sauce thoroughly between each addition. To every sixth tea-spoonful of oil put one tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, and repeat until half a pint of oil and the juice of a large lemon have been used. Flavour with three pinches of salt and two of red pepper, and, last of all, put in a table-spoon- ful of cream. The sauce should be thick, and highly flavoured. Mix the chicken with the celery, pour half the dressing into the salad and the rest on the top, and garnish according to taste. Time, half an hour to boil the chicken. Probable cost: chicken, 2s. 6d.; celery, 3d. per head. Sufficient for six persons. Chicken, Sauce for.—Take the livers of the fowls you are using, and boil them with a bunch of thyme and parsley ; drain them, and pound them in a mortar with two boned anchovies, a little pepper and salt, and the finely-grated rind of half a lemon; add the white of one egg, and the hard-boiled yolks of two. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the mixture, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of good melted butter. Stir the sauce constantly until it is thick enough. Time, altogether, about half an hour. Sufficient for a couple of boUed chickens. Probable cost, 6d. Chicken, Sauce for Roast. —Boast chickens are generally served with brown sauce, and bread sauce in a sepai-ate tureen. If no gravy is at hand, of which, brown sauce can be made, a few slices of liver may be fried with a little bacon until nicely browned, boiling water ])0ured upon them, and strained. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 4d. Chicken, Scalloped..—Take the remains of a cold chicken, free it from skin and gristle, and mince it finely. Place the mince in a saucepan, and moisten it vnth. some white sauce, or, failing that, some white stock mixed with a little cream, and thiclccned with flour. Season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Let the mLxture boil, stining it aU the time. Butter tho scallop shells, strew some broad- crumbs over them, fill them with the mixture, and strew more bread-crumbs over the top. Sprinkle some clarified butter over them, and bake in a hot oven, and serve with pickles or cucumber. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold chicken. AHow two for each person. Chicken Soup, DeUcate.—Pluck and wasJi Uiorouglily tlireu young chickens, and put them in a stowpan with five pints of good, white, nicely-flavoured stock, thoroughly freed from fat and cleared from s(;dimont. A sliced turnip and carrot nmy bo put with them, and removed before the soup is thickened. Let thorn simmer gently for nearly an hour-. Itemovo all the white flesh, and return the rest of the birds to the soup, and simmer once more for a couple of hours. Pour a little of the boiling liquid over a quarter of a pound of the crumb of bread, and when it is well soaked, drain it, put it in a mortar with the flesh which has been taken from the bones, and pound it to a smooth paste, adding, by degrees, the liquid. Flavour with salt, cayenne, and a very little pounded mace, press the mixture through a sieve, and boil once more, adding one pint of boiling cream. If the soup should not be sufficiently thick, a table- spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed may be added very smoothly with a little cold nuli. Probable cost, chickens, 28. 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Chicken, To Pull.—Take a cold roasted chicken, cut off the legs, sidesmen, and back, season these with pepper and salt, and dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Take off the skin from the breast and wings, and pull the flesh off in thin flakes; have ready some good white sauce, nicely flavoured, and put it in a saucepan with the white meat, shaking the saucepan. Broil the legs, &c. Pour the mince into the middle of a hot dish; place the back upon it, and the legs and pinions round. Just before serving, squeeze over the dish the juice of a lemon. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, chicken, 2s. 6<i. Sufficient for three persons. Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled. —Dissolve an ounce of butter in a small sauce- pan, and mix smoothly with it three-quarters of an ounce of flour. Stir in half a pint of white stock, or water, and add a small carrot, three button mushrooms, and an ounce of lean ham. Stir the sauce till it boils, draw it back and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim and strain it, then boil it again, and piit a quarter of a pint of cream with it. Sufficient for two small chickens. Chicken and Ham Sandwiches.— Put a breakfast-cupful of good gravy into a saucepan, with three dessert-spoonfuls of currA- paste mixed smoothly in it. Add half a pound of the flesh of a cold" chicken, and two ounces of lean ham finely minced. Let the ingredients boH for ten minutes, then turn them out. Cut some slices of stale bread about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and stamp them out in shapes. Fry them in a little butter, spread some of the mixture between two of them, and put over it a little slice of cheese, and a piece of butter. Press it well down, bake the sandwiches in a quick oven, on a baking sheet, and serve them as hot as possible, piled high on a napkin. Time, five minutes to bake. Allow two or