BEE BEE Btewod Avith water instead of gravy if pre- ferred. Serve in a covered dish, and send hot to table. Cost of beef, la. 4d. per pound. Suf- ficient for tliree or four persons. Beef CoUopa, with Onions. — Make Bonio butter hot la a iryiug-pau; got ready one pound of collops; they should be cut thinner tlian is usual for broiling, and cut two niiddlo- Bized onions into rings. Dust a little pepper over theui, and when they are browned cover the pan closely up till done. This will be in about ten minutes. Serve hot with a little oyster pickle or walnut ketchup added to the gravy in the pan. Time, tliree minutes to fry; ten to simmer. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for two persons. Beef, Corned.—Lay a large round of beef into a good pickle. Let it remain for ten days or more, turning it every day. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it, and let it boil very gently until it is thoroughly done. Corned beef is often smoked before it is boiled. Allow half an hour to the pound after it has come to a boil. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Beef Croquettes.—Finely mince a little di-essed beef, season it pleasantly, and moisten it with a little stiff white sauce that is a jelly when cold. Spread it on a dish, and when firm divide it into parts, and form these into corks or balls. Dip them twice in egg and bread-crumbs, place them in a wire basket if it is at hand, and fry in hot fat to a golden-brown colour. Drain them, dish them on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Beef, Curried.—Fry three onions cut into slices. Pour over them a little stock, add a sour apple, and simmer till tender. Eub the mixture through a hair sieve, add a table-spoonful of curry paste, a table-spoonful of ground rice, and as much stock as is required to make the sauce. Stir it over the fire till smooth and thick, put in the dressed beef, cut into neat slices, simmer very gently for a short time, and serve with boiled rice. Beef Dripping.—This should be removed from the pan as it drips from the meat, taking care to keep sufficient to baste with. When dripping remains ia the pan during the whole process of cooking a joint it not only becomes discoloured and unfit for use, but it is wasteful in the highest degree to expose it to the action of a hot fire. Dripping should be placed in a basin and cleared from all impurities by means of boiling water thrown upon it. When cold, make a hole, pour out the water, and turn the dripping down side uppermost on a dish; re- move the dirt which will be found adhering to the bottom, and put the dripping by for use. If necessary, it may be returned to the basin to get another cleansing with boiling water. Clarify into jars for general use. It will be found good enough for any frying or stewing purpose to which butter is applied. Beef, Dutch.—Take ten pounds of the buttock of beef without fat, rub it well with brown sugar, and allow it to lie five or six hours, turning frequently during the time. Put the beef into an earthenware pan. Press into it a small table-spoonful of saltpetre mixed with three tablo-spoonfuls of salt, and rub and turn every day for a fortnight. Then put it into a coarse cloth under a cheese-press for twenty- four hours, and dr;y in a chimney. When boiled It should bo put mto a cloth. Probable cost, lOd. to is. per pound. ' Beef, Dutch, or Hung.—Rub into twelve or fourteen pounds of the round or rump of beef two ounces of saltpetre and two ounces of coarse sugar. Let the meat remain for two days, and add a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of com- mon salt, and an ounce of ground black pepper. When these ingi-edients liave been thoroughly rubbed in, let the beef again stay four days, when add one pound of treacle, and turn it every day for a fortnight. It may then be smoked. _ This highly-flavoured meat is mostly used to improve soups and gravies. A small piece is cut off as it is wanted, but it may be stewed slowly in boiling water and pressed while hot. Should this pickle be thought too strong three-quarters of a pound of coarse sugar may be rubbed in and the treacle omitted. It may also be prepared as spiced beef by adding a few cloves and a little mace. Time in pickle, fourteen days. Probable cost of beef, Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Beef, Fillet of. Braised.—Take a fiUet and roU it together, so as to bring the fat into the centre. Place a few slices of ham and a little gravy into a braising or stewpan, on which place the meat; cover it with chopped carrots, celery, small onions, a pickled chih, a gherkin sliced, sweet herbs, mace, a little allspice, and salt. Simmer until the meat is tender. Brown it before the fire, or with a salamander; skim and season the sauce, and serve with vegetables and sauce on the same dish. Beef, rUlet of, dressed on the Spit.— Soak from four to five pounds of the fiUet of beef for two days in vinegar, seasoned with thyme, onions, parsley, salt, and pepper, or if preferred, oil may be used instead of \Tnegar. When drained wrap it in an oiled paper, and put it on the spit before a quick fire. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Beef Forcemeat.—Take one pound of lean beef, quarter of a pound of beef suet, and half a pound of fat bacon ; cut them into small pieces, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme and marjoram, the same of ground allspice, and half the quantity of pounded mace. Put all into a mortar and pound them to a paste, wdth two well-beaten eggs. Season with pepper and salt. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Beef, French, Stewed. — Beat two pounds of rump steak with a rolling-pin to make it tender, and then lard it thoroughly with strips of bacon. Place it in a stewpan with some good stock, spice, salt, garlic, thj-me, parsley, and half a pint of white wine. Stew gently for four or five hours; take out the meat, glaze it, and put away to cool. Next re- duce the stock until it jellies, clear it with white of egg, flavour with lemon, and strain through a jelly-bag into a pie-dish. Serve the meat