BB4 ( 7fl ) BRE to make tho fwraco quite smooth, and of a nice rich golden colour. Brawn, Sussex.—Prepare a pig's hwid as directed in tho recipe for lirawu. Strew the halves Avith salt, and drain them. Cleanse the ears and feet, liub in one ounce and a half of saltpetre with six oimces of sugar, and shortly- after six ovmces of salt. Next day, pour a quarter of a pint of vinegar over all, and turn the meat in the pickle every twenty-four hours for a week; wash off the pickle and boil till all the bones may be easily removed, but tho form of tho head must be retained. Flatten the head on a board, cut some of the meat from the thickest part, and place it on tho thinnest, to give an even appearance. Season all thoroughly with nutmeg, mace, cayenne, cloves, &c. In- termix the head with pieces of the ears, feet, and tongue; roll it up tightly and bind firmly, tying a thin cloth closely round, and securely fastening at both ends. Now place the head in a braising or other suitable pan, with the bones and trimmings of the feet and ears, a large bunch of savoury herbs, two onions, a small head of celery, some carrots, a tea-spoonful of black peppercorns, and sufficient cold water to cover all well. Bon for four hours, and allow it to remain in the liquor till nearly cold. Take off the cloth and put the brawn between two dishes, and press with a heavy weight till next day. Before serving take off the bands. Average cost of pig's head, 5d. per pound. Bread {see Derbyshire Bread). Bread Brandy Cakes.—Separate the yolks from the whites of eight eggs, beat up the yolks and five whites together. Dissolve six ounces of butter in a pint of milk, and pour it, while hot, over a pound of bread-crumbs. "When cold, pour in the eggs and add equal quantities of sugar and well-washed currants, with about a quarter of an o\mce of nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Line patty- pans with short paste, put in a spoonful of the preparation, and bake for twenty minutes. Bread, Broken, Pudding. — This pudding wiU use up the crusts and remnants of bread to be found in every household; all will suit, no matter how dry they are, so that they are not mouldy. Gather all into a large feowl, and throw over it as much sweetened ^k as the bread is likely to absorb, with two or three table-spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, and a little salt. Cover until well soaked, then beat the whole smooth, and add two or three well-beaten eggs, a few currants and raisins, and some grated nutmeg. The addition of a table-cpoonful of rum will be found an improve- ment. Bake in an ordinary pudding-dish for about an hour and a half. Bread, Brown, Biscuits.—Take two oimces of butter dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and stir it into a pound of wheat meal; knead it to a fii-m dough. Mix all well, roll out to a thickness of about half an inch, and cut with a biscuit-cuttor or a sharp-edged tea- cup. Prick the bisoiits with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. Average cost, 4d. Sufficient for one pound of biscuits. Bread, Brown, Ice Cream. - Stalebr^ad must bo used for tliis cream, mixed with an equal quantity of stale sponge cake. Take two sponge cakoH and two thick slices of bread, grate thorn into a jug, and pour over half a pint of milk and a pint of cream, made sweet with half a pound of sugar. Place the jug- in a saucepan, and stir the conUmts over the fire until it gets thick. A few of the bread- crumbs sifted very finely may be added with a glass of any liquor liked to the mixture when quite cold, and just before being put to freeze. Freeze for about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Bread, Brown, Pudding.—Take equal quantities of well-waslied currants, brown bread- crumbs, and shred suet—half a pound of each— add six ounces of sugar, half a glass of brandy, and the same quantity of cream ; mix all to- gether, with six eggs well beaten, leaving out the whites of two. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Servo with sweet sauce and sugar over the top. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bread Cakes, Fried, American.— To five tea-cupfuls of light dough add half a cupful of butter, three of brown sugar, a tea- spoonful of salt, four eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. Knead these well together -with flour, and let them rise before the fire imtil very light. Knead the dough again after it rises; cut it into diamond-shaped cakes ; let them rise; and fry in lard or dripping, as soon as light. These cakes must be served as soon as they are ready. Bread, Cobbett's Recipe for.—Take one pint of good sweet yeast, and the same of slightly warm water; make a hollow in the centre of a bushel of fiour and throw it in, and mix it up with the flour lying roimd it, tiU it has become a thin batter; then throw some flour over the batter, and a cloth over the pan; draw it near the fire to leaven, and when sufficiently risen, which may be known by the cracks and flowing of the yeast, mix the whole, with the addition of more warm water or milk, and a little salt strewn over, into a stiff dough. Knead it well, shape it into loaves, in tins or otherwise, place them in a warm place for twenty minutes, and then bake in a moderate oven. If the oven is too hot, the bread will not rise well. Bread Croustades.—Bread croustades are baked in a variety of shapes. The inside or crumb is scooped out, and the outer part or crust is fried, and then dried from the fat and filled with mincemeat or ragout. In Scotland croustades or moulds are made of mashed pota- toes, and lined with gratin composed of the white parts of fowl or veal seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs. Miinster loaves may be classed under the same head as a supper-dish. They are made thus: scrape throe or four ounces of lean ham, and an ounce oi two of veal, and mix it with a pound of weU-mashed potatoes; add salt, pepper, and a couple of eggs to bind, and mould into any shapes desired. They maybe fried and served with or without gravy. Bread Crumbs, Pried.—Put some thin slices of bread into an oven when the fire hae