VOW you ( 220 ) iuice over a slow firo, aud Btniiu it from the iruit. Mako a syrup with throo-quarturs of a pound of loaf Hugar, aud as much watur aH, with tho juictj. will mako a quart. Diaaolvo au ounce of isinglass, clarify, and simmor all over tho tiro for about hvo miuutos. Add a glass of cura(,'oa, aud strain into a mould. Tho jolly should ho icod hoforo boing turned out to serve. Probable cost, 28. To clarify iolly, see CaM's Foot JeUy. Four-fruit Liquor (a pleasant drink for sunmier).—Tuko one pound of raspberries, one pound of black-currants, one pound and a half of strawberries, and one pound and a half of Morella cherries. Put them into a deep jar, and cover them closely. Place tho jar in a saucepan, half filled with boiling Avater, and simmor very gently for half an hour. Take the pan from the fire, and pass its contents through a jelly-bag, being very careful not to squeeze the fruit; indeed, if a little of the juice be left in it, it may be used for common tarts. Measure the juice, and put it into a deep jar, and for every quart add six ounces of loaf sugar which has loeen dissolved in half a pint of water. Add half the cherry kernels, slightly bruised, cover the jar to keep out the dust, and let it stand for i^enty-four hours. Stir into it an equal quantity of brandy, pass the liquid again through the jelly-bag, and bottle for use. When taken, two table-spoonfuls of this liquor should be added to half a tumblerful of iced water. Fowl.—It may be serviceable to point out the features which should be looked for when a fowl is purchased for cooking purposes. Chickens, on account of their age, can hardly be anything else than tender. Capons should have a fat vein beneath the wing, a thick belly and rump, a short and pale comb, and smooth legs. Pullets are at their best in the spring. Cocks should have short spurs, smooth legs, and a short, smooth, bright comb. Hens should be full-breasted and smooth-legged. Fowl (a la Bechamel).—Have ready a pint of bechamel sauce; pour about half of it over a couple of fowls, boiled according to the recipe given {see Fowl, Boiled); the other half should be thinned with a little stock, and served in a tureen. Send to table hot, with a garnish of brocoli in bunches round the dish. Time, from half an horn- to one hour. Probable cost, 7s. per pair. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Fowl (a la Carlsford, entree).—Bone a fowl, without making an opening down the back ; fill up the vacancies made by the removal of the bones with a forcemeat, and put a roll of it in tho body. A nicely-seasoned sausage-meat may also be added, and placed on either side. Truss firmly with slender skewers, and tie the bird to the spit. Baste frequently, and roast it a whole hour. An ordinary veal stuffing may be used; but a mushroom forcemeat, or any other delicately prepared ono, wiU be an improvo- . ment. Fowl (it la Fran9aiso).—Remove the breast- bones from a couple of fine fowls, and draw the strings from tho legs; truss them as for boiling. Mix somo Icumju-juice with a lump ol butter, which insert in tlxe fowls beioro placing thorn into a stowpau, then cover them with strips of fat bacon, cut very thin. Mako a sauce as follows:—Cut equal quantities of veal and fat bacon, ono pound of each, into dice, with (;nough ham to flavour. Fry the meat, without browning it, in a good quantity of butter, season with salt, popper, and add a clovt;, half a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little thyme, with as much boiling water as wUl be required for gravy to stow tho fowls. Stew till the flavour of the herbs is extraoted, then strain into the stewpan. Keep a brisk heat on tho cover of the stewpan, and a very slow fire underneath. When suffi- ciently done, di-ain, and serve tho fowls with rich brown sauce, and a scarlet tongue between them. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the fowls. Probable cost, 7s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Fowl (a la Hollandaise).—Take out the breast-bone of a large but young fowl, and fill up the space with a forcemeat composed of the following ingredients :—Half a pint of bread- crumbs, an ounce and a half of finely-shred suet or butter, a small parboiled onion, or a few oysters, bearded, and cut not too small, pepper, salt, and an egg to bind. Make a batter as for fritters, and when the fowl has roasted half its time, pour the batter over, and when drj', pour more; continue until it is thickly coated, and of a nice brown colour. Serve with melted butter and lemon pickle. While roasting, a thickly buttered paper should be fastened over the fowl, and only removed when the batter ia used. Time, one hour altogether. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl (a la Marengo).—Pour four table- spoonfuls of the best Lucca oil into a stewpan, and cut a fowl into pieces, which dredge with flour. Lay them into the stewpan and brown over a moderate fire, turning each piece, that all may be of a good colour. A pint of stock, or water, should now be added, with a piece of garlic about the size of a pea, a dozen and a half, or more, of small button-mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a tea-spoonful of sugar. Simmer gently for half an hour, and do not skim away the oil, but leave it floating on the sauce. When done, arrange the joints nicely on a dish, and reduce the sauce by boiling till it is sufficiently thick, then serve it over the fowl. Time, fifty minutes altogether. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl (a la Mayonnaise).—Cut up the joints of a cold roast fowl. On a dish place a layer of picked lettuce; on this place a layer of fowl, sprinkling, as you proceed, with hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, cucumber, and capers, all chopped together; now put cress, chopped radishes, dry mustard; again lettuce; and on the top of the dish arrange the breast and wings of the fowl; garnish with hard-boiled eggs, in rings, and beetroot; and pour over the whole a sauce mayonnaise {see Mayonnaise Sauce). Fowl (il la Milanese).—Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and mix with bread-crumbs. Cut a fowl into fillets, and dip each fillet into the crumbs ; roll them in egg-yolk, well beaten,