'^^^ ^ cassell's cookehy. The best sauce for puddmga is German custard, which is made by puttrng say four yo ks of eggs anto a small stewpan, and adding to them a couple of ounces of pounded sugar, some of which before being pounded haa been rubbed on a little emon-peel. Add a glass of golden sherry, and beat this up over a very slow fire tUl It gets wai-m and frothy, but do not let it get too hot, as should it boU it would be utterly spoilt. In rnaking sweet sauce for puddings some sherry and sugar should be added to melted butter ma^e with milk, but instead of adding brandy, as is usually recom- mended, tiy an equal quantity of inim instead. Indeed, a couple of table-spoonfuls ot rum with a little sugar and melted butter makes an admirable sauce of itself. CHEESE. With regard to cheese, little need be said: to enter into the general principles of vMhng cheeses would be far from our province. With regard to choosing cheeses, some of the best to be obtained now at reasonable prices are those that come from Canada. Some are, indeed, so similar to our own Cheddar and Cheshire that few can teU the difference. In choosing a Stilton, always select one that combines moLsture with blue mould. This is by far the best cheese of the country. What is the secret of its composition that makes it so far superior to other cheeses I cannot say. How- ever, be on your guard against a worthless imitation which resembles it in shape only. Pei-sons attempt to sell this cheese as a sort of Stilton. Its outside is smoother than genuine Stilton, and its inside inferior in flavour to Dutch and common American. The best of foreign cheeses are Brie and Camenbert; they are, however, not very easily bought, except in that most luxurious of neighbourhoods in London Soho. Parmesan cheese is thought by many an improvement to soups, and in Italy is almost invariably handed round with every soup served. BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON. We will now run lightly through the ordinary daily duties of a cook, finishing up with that greatest of events in the every-day life of each Englishman—his dinner. Of course the cook must consider herself responsible for the larder and its contents, and should consequently be careful not to allow bloaters, haddocks, lobsters, crabs,. &c., or any strong-smelling thing of a similar description, to remain among the cold meat, butter, &c. Again, care should be taken to keep the larder scrupulously clean, and the shelves, especially if of wood, should from time to time be scrubbed. Let me here also warn servants generally against that too common practice of putting meat on the wooden shelf instead of on a dish or slab. For instance, the butcher sends perhaps a couple of pounds of gravy beef, and a careless cook, in hot weather, places this piece of raw meat on a wooden shelf, the result being that the blood adheres to the shelf, and becomes a fruitful cause of contaminating the whole larder. The fii-st meal of the day is of course breakfast. I believe a substantial breakfast to be most conducive to good health, yet too often we find this meal the most neglected of the day. A good breakfast and a light lunch are far better than a light breakfast and a heavy lunch. The cook should always send up to breakfast any cold joint of meat that is in the house; the cold joint being placed on a good-sized clean dish, all -.vafere of fat that have settled from the gravy being first removed, and the whole joint nicely ornamented with fresh parsley. The parsley that has decorated a cold joint will always do to use for cooking purposes, so there is no need to ornament the joint with a stingy hand. One of the most common of breakfast dishes is friec.