( 344 ) JTJG JOH littlo strong, thoreforo tho best way of serving it a second time is as a sahid, or in a mayon- naise. If this is not liked, remove tho liesh from tho bones, and divide it into rather hirgo pieces. Put tliese into a saucopan, season witli salt and cayenne, and pour over them any re- mains of the sauce with which it was sorvod wlien cold, and heat it gradually for a few minutes, but do not kit it boil. Lift it out gently, so as not to break tho fish, and serve on a hot dish. If there is no cold sauce, a littlo molted butter, flavoured with two or throe drops of oHsenco of anchovies, may be used instead. 8uflicient, if made with a pound of fish, for two persons. Joh.n Dory (on Matoloto).—Chop small a dozen oysters—the tinned oysters may bo used for this purpose—and mix them thoroughly with three boned ancho\'ie8, also finely minced, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, four table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and three ounces of butter or chopped suet. Mix all thoroughly, add pepper and salt to taste, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and eight table-spoonfuls of new milk. Put all into a stewpan, stir briskly over a gentle fire until the mixture thickens, then fill the Dory with the forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Put the fish into a saucepan, barely cover it with cold water, and put with it a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, a large sprig of parsley, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed, and a table- spoonful of salt. Boil gently until the fish is sufficiently cooked. Serve on a hot dish, and send the following sauce to table in a tureen with it:—Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan, fry in this turee small onions, sliced very thin, add a table-spoonful of minced parsley, and another of minced chives, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of claret, and a glass of the liquid in which the fish was boiled. Stew gently for a few minutes until the onions are done, strain through a cloth, and then add half a pint of good brown sauce. Boil until the sauce coats the spoon. A few drops of essence of anchovy and the juice of half a lemon may be added, if liked. Time, a quarter of an hour after boiling for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost of John Dory, 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. John Dory, Sauce for—Wten red mullet are plentiful, and. this they are very much so occasionally, a good sauce for the John Dory may be made by boiling one, pounding the flesh, rubbing it through a l^air sieve, and mixing it with half a pint of melted butter. Time, ten minutes to boil the mullet. John, Oxford (see Oxford John). Johnny or Journey Cakes.-Take a pint of InLn meal, mix a htt e salt with it, and as much boiling water as wiU form a batter This will bo about half a pmt. Beat it well for several minutes, then spread it, to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, on a smooth piece of board. Place the board upright in front of a clear fire, and bake the cake When well browned, cut it into squares, split these, put butter between, and send them to table as hot as possible. Time, bake until weU browned —about twenty minutes. Sufficient for two or three persons. Johnny or Journey Cakes (another way).—iSce Indian Meal JoTiniiy Cakes. Johnny or Journey Cakes (another way).— Pour a j)int <jf boiling milk over a tea-cupful and a Jialf of Indian meal, and beat it well for a quarter of an hour. Unless tins is done tho cakes will not be light. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of cai'bonatt; of soda, a table-spoonful of fioui', two table-spoon- fuls of sour milk, a Ijoaten egg, and a table- spoonful of oiled butter. This will make a batter of the consistence of that used for j)an- cakes. Johnny cakes are best baked in a spider (a deep iron pan) on the stove. When this is not convenient, they may be spread in buttered pans, the eighth ot an inch in thickness, and baked in a quick oven. When well browned, split the cakes, put butter between them, and serve as hot as possible. Time, bake till well- browned—about twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Josephine Cake.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream, mix with it three ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, which, before being powdered, has been well rubbed upon the rind of half a fresh lemon. Add three well-beaten eggs, half a pound of biscuit flour, a quarter of a pound of picked currants, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry or madeira. Beat all well together for some minutes, put the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Time, forty minutes to bake. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons, or a small mould. Jubilee Pudding.—Take half a pound of spongecake, rather stale than otherwise, and cut it into thin slices. Butter one side, and spread the other either with orange marmalade or apricot jam, then place the slices in Layers in a plain "round mould, buttered side down- wards. Pour three-quarters of a pint of good custard over each layer, and repeat imtil the mould is full. Let the pudding soak for an hour, then bake in a quick oven, and turn out before serving. Wine or brandy sauce may be sent to table with it. Time, an hour and a quarter to bake. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Judy's Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Iilix Adth it a quarter of a pound of finely-grated bread-cnunbs, a table-spoonful of flour, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and a table- spoonful of bi-andy or whiskj'. When thcs.? ingredients are thoroughly blended, pour tho mixture into a well buttered mould, lay a buttered paper over it, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for one hour and a half. . Turn tho pudding out of the mould before servmg, ami pour brandied sauce round it. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Gd. Sufficient for thi-ec or four persons. Jugged Gravy—Cut a pound and a half of the shin of Itocf and three ounces of lt>an ham into small pieces. Roll them hghlly m