FBE PEA ( 229 ) It can be flavoured with vanilla, orange-flower, or cofliee, to suit the dish it ia wanted for. The iYoneh use it to fill tai-tlets or cover fi-uit tiirts. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for tliis quantity, exclusive of spu-its. Frankfort Sausages.—Mince very finely one poiuid of leau pork, from the shouldoj-, with three ounces of fat bacon; add a little red wine during the mincing process, just enough to keep the meat moist. JSeason with equal quantities of black pepper and ground coriander seed, a little nutmeg grated, and salt to taste. Fill akins—these should be scrupulously clean, well- soaked in siilt and water, and wiped dry before being used. Bread soaked in milk or water, and squeezed dry, is sometimes used, either to increase the quantity, or to make the sausages less rich. Allow the same quantity of bread as of fat. Time to boil, hiilf an houi-. Probable cost for this quantity. Is. 3d. French Cake.—Mix equal quantities of fine flour and ground rice together, half a poimd of each. Put these into a bowl, with a pound of finely-sifted sugar, the grated riad of a lemon, and four ounces of sweet, and one of bitter, almonds, pounded together with a table- spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat twelve eggs separately, yolks from whites, and then mix with the above ingre'dients, until the whole are thoroughly blended. Time, one hour to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. French. Fritters.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in half a pint of warm milk; blend with it ten ounces of flour, and work it till it is quite smooth. Whisk the whites of two eggs; add them to the batter just before use, as the lightness will depend on this mainly. Season with salt, &c., if for vegetables; or sweeten with sugar if for frying fi'uit. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, 7d. for this quantity. French Fritters (another way).—Mix two large table-spoonfuls of flour with as much warm water as wiU make it into a stiff paste ; beat up the whites and yolks separately of two eggs; add the yolks to the paste, a table- spoonful of salad-oil, enough sugar to sweeten, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs, which should be a stiff froth before being added. Drop the batter from a spoon, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. This preparation is excellent for fruit fritters, such as apples, peaches, oranges, &c. Time, about ten minutes to fry with fruit. Probable cost, 6d. French GauflEVes.—Separate eight eggs, yolks from whites; beat the yolks till light, and froth the whites. Put eight ounces of flour and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, with a little salt, into a basin, and mix the beaten yolks of eggs, a glass of noyeau or any Uquor preferred, and some pounded vanilla, with the flour; add a pint of whipped cream by slow degrees, and the whites of eggs lastly and lightly, that they may be well blended with the whole batter. Heat the gauffre-irons, and smear them with clarified butter, fill with the batter, and bake over a light charcoal fire; turn the irons that the gauffres may be evenly coloured; and when turned out, make them neat with a pair of scissors, and dry before the tire on paper. When dry, shake vanilla, orange, or lemon sugar over them, and serve piled high on a napkin. Probable cost, 28. for this quantity. French Jelly.—Gather fresh sound fruit for this i)ui-pose ; strawberries, cherries, grapes, and currants do well for it. Prepare a quart of clear jelly, and cover the bottom of a mould with it. When it has had time to harden, make a border of fruit, and place it tastefully round the edge; cover with jelly, which must harden as before, and continue to fill the mould in the same manner. Preserved fruits may be arranged with good effect between the jeUy in the mould and as a garnish around it. French Melted Butter.—Melt over the fire, in a clean saucepan, four ounces of good fresh butter, and keep moving the saucepan round in one direction until the butter is quite hot. Or, blend together four ounces of good fresh butter and a table-spoonful of flour. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a flavouring of nutmeg and salt. Stir over the fire to thicken, but do not let the mixture boil. Time, about five minutes. Butter, Is. 6d. per pound. French Pancakes.—Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and beat two eggs tUl they are light; blend with these two ounces of fine flour, and the same weight of powdered sugar. AHd milk very gradually till the mixture is as thick as cream. Bake on buttered tin plates, and beat the mixture until it is poured upon them to be put into the oven. Bake a few minutes in a quick oven. Serve piled high on a dish; a cut lemon and sifted sugar should accompany, or the pancakes may have a layer of preserve be- tween each. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for three or four persons. French Pie.—Line a dish with puff paste, and fill it with a mince of cold roast veal and gi-ated ham; add two dozen oysters, bearded, which place, with a good seasoning of salt, mace, and lemon-peel, in alternate layers with the meat. Pour in a small cup of gravy, the liquor from the oysters, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, mixed together. Cover with paste, and remove from the oven when the paste is done. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of oysters, Is. 9d. to 2s. per dozen. Two pounds of mince is sufficient for five or six persons. French Plum Pudding.—Put half a pound of flour into a basin with about a salt- spoonful of salt; beat up separately four yolks and two whites of eggs; stir the yolks, with half a pint of cream, into the flour. Boil one pound of good French plums; put boiling water on them, and continue to simmer till the stones will come out easily. Remove the stones; drain off the moisture from the fruit, and stir it and also the frothed whites of eggs, into the batter. Do not boil in a basin; the pudding is best in a floured cloth, which should not be tied too closely, as the contents will swell in boiling. Time, two hoiu-s to boU. Probable cost, 2s. 2d Sufficient for four or five persons.