APR APR ( 26 ) pilo them high on a f(jldod na])kin, nnd servo with sifted sugiir. Time to fiy, about ton niinutoH. Probable cost, Is. 2d. iSullicient for four or five persona. Apricot Ice Cream.—Takes half a pound of apricot jam: mix with it a pint of cream, the jiiioo of a lemon, half a dozen almonds blanched and pounded, and two table-spoonfuls of noyeau. Mix and strain thoroughly. Freeze, and serve either in a mould or glasses. Time to freeze, about half an hour. Sufficient for a pint and a half. Probable cost, la. 6d. Apricot Ice Cream (another way).— Rub through a tine sieve half a pound of apricot jam with a pint of cream, the strained juice of a lemon, half a dozen bitter almonds pounded, and a glass of noyeau. Freeze twenty-five minutes. Or, take a dozen fine ripe apricots. Skin, stone, and pulp them through a sieve with a pint of hot cream and five or six ounces of the finest sifted sugar. Mould and freeze. The apricots may be scalded before they are pulped. Sufficient for six or more persons. Apricot Jam.—Pare three pounds of fresh sound apricots, halve them, and take out the stones. They should be ripe enough to halve ■n-ith the fingers. Place them in a deep dish, and strew over them one poimd of finely-sifted sugar. Let them remain for eight hours. Then place them with, the syi'up that will have oozed from them in a preser\'ing-pan; add a few of the kernels blanched and sliced, and another pound and a half of sugar. Let them boil very gently, and, when done, put them into jars and cover closely with gummed paper. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Apricot Jam, Green.—Take two pounds of yoimg apricots: place them in a jar, and pour a little boiling water over them. Let them remain in this for one minute; remove them and rub off the down. Place them in a preserving-pan with a cupful of thick syriip, and let them simmer very gently until the fruit is quite tender. Take them out and put them on an inverted sieve to drain. Make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and two cup- fuls of water. Put the apricots into this, and boil for twenty minutes; then put them into jars, and cover the fruit in each jar with a piece of paper dipped in oil, and cover with thin paper brushed with white of an egg or a little gum-water. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Apricot Jelly.—Pare, core, and halve about thirty ripe apricots. Blanch and pound a few of the kernels, mixing with them the juice of a lemon. Weigh the apricots, put them into a saucepan with an equal weight of sugar and the pounded kernels; let them boil gently, stirring continually, imtil they form a thick marmalade. Then pour it into a mould which has been filled with cold water. Let it remain until quite stiff, and turn out on a glass dish. This is an excellent dish for invalids. Apricot Jumbles.—Pour boiling water over the apricots and let them remain until they are soft, then remove the stones, and drj' the fruit in a pan over the fire, or in an oven. Then beat it into a stiff pasU) with an equal weiglit of sugar, roll it into lengths, tie the lengtlis into knots, and preserve for use in a diy pkco. If it is wislied, iham junibles may bo coloured rod Ijy the addition of a Httle cochineal to the fruit pulp. Apricot Marmalade. — Peel, quarter, and stone four pounds of ripe apricots, and put them into a preserving-pan, without either water or sugar, and let them boil gently, stir- ring continually, until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Then add three pounds of sugar, and a few of the kernels blanched and halved, and boil once more. Put into jars, cover the fruit with an oiled paper, and fasten over each jar a piece of thin paper dipped in gum-water. When dry it will be tight and hard. Time to boil with the sugar, twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five jars. Probable cost, 48. Apricot Marmalade (another way).— Take five pounds of ripe apricots—so ripe that they can be halved with the fingers: pare, stone, and slice them, and strew over them five poimds of sifted sugar. Let them remain twelve hours. Then boil sugar, juice, and fruit verA- gently, and when done, place in jars, which must be made perfectly air-tight. Time to boil, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six one-pound jars. Apricot Paste.—Peel and stcne some apri- cots, and put them into a dish in a warm oven; cover the fruit ■with another dish, and let them remain until they are tender; then take them out and let them get cold. When this is done, take the same weight of powdered loaf sugar as there was fruit, and moisten it with a small quantity of water; boil it imtil ready to candy, and then mix the apricots with it; stir the syrup continually, and boil it \mtil it becomes of the consistency of marmalade. Make this paste into the shape of apricots, and put it in a warm place. When dry it wiU be found very transparent. Time to boil the sugar and fruit, till it is stiff and smooth. Apricot Paste (another way).—Spread apricot marmalade on shallow tins, and dry it gradually in a slow oven. When nearly dry, cut it into slips or ornamental shapes. Apricot Paste (another way).—Peel the apricots, boil them gently xmtil tender; drain them, and beat them into a pulp. Boil the pulp with half its weight of crushed loaf sugar, until it becomes thick and clear. Take the same quantity of sugar, boil it with a little water until ready to candy, and mix it with the pulp, but take care not to allow it to boil. Pour tliis paste into jars, and place them in a warm oven until it candies; then take out the candied pulp and dry it on plates. Time to boU, about half an hour. Apricot Paste, Green. —Scald the apricots, beat them up, and strain the soft pulp. ]Mix it with sjTup containing twice the weight of the fruit in loaf sugar, and let it boil for a short time; then remove it from the fire, and when cold pour it into moulds. Boil until it is stifi. Apricot Pie.—Pare, stone, and halve tlie apricots. Place them in a pie-dish, piling them