( 158 ) CBA CRA Tho renuiins of a crab that has been partly eaten may he used in this way, hut it Hhould he baked on tho day on which it was opened. Probable cost, Gd. for a two-ounce jar. Sufli- cient for two persons. Crab Salad.—Crack the large cLiws of a crab and pick out tho white meat in as largo pieces as possible. Lay the contents of tho carapace in the middle of a large dish ; on that put tho pickings from tho breast, and on tlie top the pieces from tho claws. Surround tho pile with a small quantity of mixed salad, quartered lottuco-hoarts, blanched endive, or watercresses. Pour a little mayonnaise or salad-tb-ossing over the whole, and garnish the dish with the small claws and a little green parsley. The four black tips of the sheUs of the large claws, which children call soldiers, may be placed at the four comers. Be careful that the mixed salad is thoroughly dry. • Time to prepare, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, crabs from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Suffi- cient, a medium-sized crab, for four persons. Crab Sauce.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of floirr very smoothly with a little cold water, and poiur upon it a tea-cupful of boiling water and a tea-cupful of new milk, also boiling. Add three ounces of fresh butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Put all together on the fire, and stir the sauce constantly till it boils. Now add the flesh from the claws and body of a medium-sized crab, torn into small pieces with two forks. Let the sauce get quite hot; but it must not boil again after the crab is added, or the flavour will be lost. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of crabs, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Sufiicient for a tureen. Crab, Scalloped.—Prepare the crab as for Minced Crab, omitting the wine and eggs. Clean out the large round shell of the crab, fill it with the mixture, and put what is left into scallop-shells. Place them in a moderately hot oven or before a clear fire. When hot through and slightly browned, take them up, put them on a dish covered with a napkin, the crab-shell in the middle and the scallop-shells round it, and garnish with parsley. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost of crab, from lOd. to 3s. 6d. Sufficient, a medium-sized crab, for four persons. Crab Soup.—"Wash half a pound of rice in one or two waters, then put it into a sauce- pan with a quart of milk or white stock, an inch and a half of stick cinnamon, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Let it simmer gently till quite tender, then mix with it the pounded yellow pith from the bgdy of a freshly-boiled crab, and another quart of stock. Eub all through a sieve, then pour it into a stewpan with the flesh from the claws torn into flakes with two forks. Add a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies. Stir it again over the fire until thoroughly heated, but it must not boil after the crab is added. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6(1. per quart. Sufficient for five or sLx persons, Crab, To Choose.—Choose a crab of the medium size (ntdtlior very large nor very smiill), and heavy; tho light crabs are watery. Tho male crab is the best for the table, and may be distinguished by possessing larger claws. When selecting a crab which Ims boon cooked, it should bo held by its claws and well eliaken from side to side. If it is found to rattle, as if it contained water, the crab is of inferior quaUty. Tho preference should be given to those that have a rough shell and claws. The joints of the claws should be stifl', the shell a bright rod, and the eyes briglit and filTO. Crab, To Dress.—Pick out all the meat from two crabs, clear away the apron and the gills, and mix all well together with a wine- glassful of vinegar, the same of oO, a salt- spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of mustard, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Clean out one of the large shells, put the mixture into it, and place it on a najjkin with the small claws, and a httle parsley for garnish. Time to prepare, threcrquarters of an hour. Probable cost of crabs, lOd. to Ss. 6d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Cracknels.—Beat eight eggs with eight table-spoonfuls of rose-water and a grated nut- meg. Mix with them over two quarts of flour with sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Mix with the paste two pounds of butter, and make it into cracknels. Put them into a pan of boiling water, and boil them till they swim. Then put them into cold water, and, when they are hardened, dry them, and bake them on tin-plates in a moderate oven. Time, about a quarter of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 5s. for this quantity. CRADLE sprr. Cradle Spit.—These spits are so made that they inclose any delicacy which has to be roasted; and so no necessity arises for the meat to be pierced. They are now almost superseded by the well-known bottle-jack. Cranberries, To Pickle.—Gather the clusters before they are fuUy ripe. Put them into jars and cover them vrith. strong salt and water. "VATien fermentation begins, drain them, and add fresh salt and water. Keep the jars closely covered. They are ready for use m a week or two. Probable cost, fresh fruit, unceriam ; bottled, 8d. or lOd. per bottle. Cranberries, To Preserve.—Pick the cranben-ies (reject the injured berncs), and to everj' pound of fi-uit allow two pounds of sugar. Pour a cupful of water into the presersong-pan,