ONI ( 468 ) ONI eaten raw, and it is also picklod, and made into a sauco by boiling, in whicli proec'ss much of the allylo is got rid of. It grows to a grout size in the south of Europe, and wlien imported into tliis country is boiled and eaten with meltod butter. Onion and Cabbage.—A slight flavour- ing of onion is a great iuiprovi'Miuiit to red cabbage pickle (sea Cabbage, lied. Pickled). Onion and Eggs,—Wash and pool a largo Spanish onion. Cut it into shoes about a quarter of an inch in thickness, strew a little salt and popper over these, and fry them in hot butter until they are tender, without being browned. Take the pieces up with an egg-slice to preserve them whole, drain well from the fat, and place them on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of two large fresh lemons ■upon them. Have ready four poached eggs, place these on the onions, and servo imme- diately. Time, twenty minutes altogether. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Onion and Sage Goose Stuffing {sec Goose-stuffing, Sage and Onion). Onion and Sage Stufllng for Geese, Duck, or Pork. — Wash, peel, and par- boil thi-ee large onions. If a strong flavour of onions is liked, the boiling can be omitted, and the onions used raw; if it is objected to, they may be boiled in one or two waters. Drain the onions, mince them finely, and mix with them an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a small tea-spoonful of powdered sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Mix all the ingre- <iients thoroughly. The yolk of an egg is sometimes added, but it is oftener omitted. Spanish onions are always to be preferred to the ordinary ones for stuffing. Time to boil the onions, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Onion Beef, German {see German Onion Beef). Onion, Chops Stewed with {see Chops Stewed with Onion). Onion, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Onion). Onion Gravy {see Gravy, Onion). Onion Omelet {see Omelet, Onion). Onion Porridge (a country remedy for a cold in the head).—Peel a large Spanish onion, divide it into four, and put it into a saucepan with half a salt-spoonful of salt, two ounces of butter, and a pint of cold water. Let it simmer gently until it is quite tender, then pour it into a heated bowl, dredge a little pepper over it, and eat it as hot as possible just before going to bed. Time to boil the onion, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Suf- ficient for one person. Onion, Potatoes Mashed with {see Potatoes Mashed witli Onion). Onion Sauce.—"Wliite onion sauces are generally served with boiled rabbits, roast mutton, and tripe, or, when superlatively made, with lamb and mutton cutlets. Tlio brown sauces are excellent with steaks, cutlets, sausag(;H, itc. Onion Sauce, Brown.—Peel and minco two mo(l(.ratu-si/.od Spanish onions very liuely. Fry tliom in two ounces of dissolved butter until they are lightly browned. Add lialf a pint of brown giavy uii.\ed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a little pejjper and siilt. Stir tlie anwv. over the fire for a lew minutes, and serve as hot as possiljle. Time, sLx or eight minutes to boil. Probable cost, 6d. Suflicient for four persons. Onion Sauce^ Brown (another way).— Peel two large onions, and cut away the ends. Divide them into thin slices, and lay them in salted water for an hour. Drain tliem, and fry them in a little butter xmtil they are lightly browned. Poui- over them half a pint of good brown sauce, and let them simmer untU tender. Add a little more sauce if required. Press them thi-ough a sieve. Eetum the puree to the saucepan, add an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of glaze, simmer five or six minutes, and serve very hot. A tea-spoonful of dry mustard is sometimes mixed with the above sauce. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Onion Sauce, Brown, Piquant.—Fry the onions as in the last recix^e. When they are quite tender, pour over them half a pint of gravy mixed smoothly with a table-spoon- ful of floui-, add pepper and salt, if required, a lump of sugar, a dessert-spoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, and a glass of sheny. Stir the sauce over a gentle fixe for ten minutes, pass it through a strainer, and serve as hot as jiossible. A tea-spoonful of dry mustard is sometimes mixed with the above sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Sauce, German.—Peel tluoe or four large onions. Cut them into small jjieces, and boil them until tender in as much good stock as will cover them. Stir in with them, whilst boiling, a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Mix two ounces of flour smoothly with two ounces of butter and a little of the hot liquid; add it to the rest, season with pepper and salt, simmer gently over the fire for ten minutes, and serve very hot. Time, one horn*. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Onion Sauce, White. — Take two Spanish onions or four largo' ordinary ones. Peel them, slice oft" the ends, and simmer them in as much cold water as will cover them until tender. Drain the water from them, mince them finely, and put them into a saucepan -with a pint of niilk mixed smoothly with two ounces of flour and two ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the-sauce over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve it as hot as possible. Time, aliout an hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Onion Sauce, White, Common.— Boil the onions until tender. ]\lix with tliom haK a pint of melted butter; add quarter of a