( 3dl ) LIL LIN mixture into a saucepan, and let it simmer gently until it thickens, tlien take the pan from the iire, and stir it until it again becomes iluid. Boil it for five minutes, strain it through a Bieve, and it will be ready for use. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for half a pint of soup. Lillian's Delight.—Take a pound of any good cake, made without currants, cut it into slices rather more than an inch thick, and stamp these into rounds or diamonds, about the size of a cro\\Ti-piece; scoop a hole in the middle of each round, half an inch deep, and three-parts fill it with nicely-whipped cream, spread a little jam on the top, ancl cover the cakes entirely with an icing made as follows :— Put the whites of two eggs and half a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar into a basin, add two or three drops of lemon-juice now and then, and work the ingredients well together with a wooden spoon, until the mixture looks like a thick white cream, when it is ready for use. The icing should be spread %n the cakes about a quarter of an inch thick, and after it is put on they should be put in a warm screen, and left there untU the icing is quite hard. Pro- bable cost of cake, Is. per pound. Lime.—The lime is a variety of the lemon, but is much smaller, being only about an inch or an inch and a half in diameter. Its cultiva- tion in Europe is by no means extensive, but in the "West Indies it is held in high esteem, being more acid and cooling than the lemon. Lime punch is there considered superior to any other. Lime-juice is imported into Britain like lemon-juice for the manufacture of citric acid. Lime Flower Tea (for indigestion).— Pom- a quart of boiling water over an ounce of lime-liowers, cover closely, and let it stand for a few 'minutes, then strain the tea, sweeten it with two table-spoonfuls of honey, and drink a cupful as hot as possible. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. Sufficient for a quart of tea. Limes, To Preserve.—Take half a dozen limes; make three or four slight cuts in the rind of each; rub them well with two ounces of salt; and put them in a warm place, turning them occasionally, until they are softened, whch will be in about five days. Boil as much \dnegar as -will cover them, with a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, and one oimce of whole pepper, to each quart. Put the softened limes with the salt, &c., into a jar; pour the boiling vinegar upon them, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Tie a skin over the top, and store in a cool, dry place. Limes, To Preserve (another way).— Take a dozen limes, weigh them, and put aside double their weight in loaf sugar. Boil them m two or three waters until the rind is suf- ficiently tender for a fork or skewer to pierce it easily. Drain them, cut them into thin slices, carefully removing the pips, and put them into a deep jar. Boil the sugar to a clear sjTup, and put half a pint of water with every pound and a qu;irter of sugar. Pour this syrup, when boiling, over the fruit; let it remain for two days. Turn the whole into a preserving-pan, boil for a quarter of an hoar, then put the fruit into jars. Cover these securely, and be careful to store them m a cool, dry place. Limpets.—In some parts limpets are used for food, and though coarse, are not unwhole- some. They merely require boihng in a little salt and water for a few minutes. The limpet, when raw, is said to be ijoisonous. Ling.—Ling is a fish of the same species as hake, and, like that fish, is both cheai) and nourishing. It is a native of the northern seas. In form it is not unlike the cod, but it is more slender, and grows to the length of six or seven feet. Its colour is gray, inclining to olive; the belly, silvery; the fins, edged with white. The tail-fin is rounded. The ling is a very voracious fish, feeding principally on smaller fishes. It is captured in vast quantities off the Orkney, Shetland, and Western Islands, and is also found near the Scilly Islands, and LIKG. ofp Flamborough Head. In Britain it is little used as food. It is in perfection from Feb- ruary to the end of May. "When ling are less than twenty-six inches long they are called drizzles on the Yorkshire coast, and are con- sumed by the natives, being thought an excel- lent fish. "When large they are coarse. They are salted, dried, and exported to Spain, and other southern pai-ts of Eui'ope, where the live fish are not met with. The sounds and roes are salted separately. The liver yields an oil simi- lar to cod-Hver oil. "When boiled it is insipid, but when fried or baked is both palatable and wholesome. A very good pie may also be made from it. Ling, Saked.—Cut four pounds of ling into slices, and put these into a baking-dish. Dredge weU with flour, and spiinlde over them two tea-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepper, and half a tea-spoon- ful of pounded mace. Divide three ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, and place these here and there upon the fish. Hub a table- spoonful of flour smoothly into half a pint of rnilk; pour this over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Ling, Tried.—Take two pounds of fresh ling, cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch tliick, rub these over with pepper and salt, dredge a little flour over them, and after- wards egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Parsley and butter, or lemon and