BER ( 68 ) BIS into a damp mould, and loavo it until tho next day. Turn it upon a glass dish and servo with milk or cream. Bermuda Witches.—Spread stniwboiTy, raapborry, up})lo jelly, or prosorvo of any kind without stones, over slices of Savoy or rico cako, which must bo cut exceedingly thin and evon. Spread unsparingly over the preserve finoly-gratnd cocoa-nut ; cover over with a similar slice of cako, and after pressing all together, cut tliom into any form desired. The square fonn is generally thought most suitable, and each slice of cake may bo divided into the size desired before the preserve is l)ut on, but they will always require some trim- ming. Bend them to table arranged prettily on a naplcin, and garnished with myrtle sprigs. Bernese Pudding.—Beat up tho yolks and whites of two eggs ^\•ith a quarter of a pint of milk, and add two ounces of vary lino broad-crumbs and tho same quantity of flour; take a quarter of a pound of suet, finely shred, tho same of mixed candied peel, chopped, the rind and juice of a lemon, the quarter of a small nutmeg grated, and equal quantities of sugar and currants. Mix these ingredients for ten minutes, and put them aside for an hour. Stir all round, pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and lay a floured cloth over the top. Place it in boiling water and boil for three hours and a half. Serve with sugar over the top. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Beverages, Refreshing Summer.— Peel, core, and quarter some apples, and boil them in water until they can be mashed through a colander; one pound of apples to a gallon of ■water will be an economical and pleasant drink, and when boiled up again, with the addition of half a pound of brown sugar, and well skimmed, may be bottled for use. The bottles should not be corked tight. A piece of bread very much toasted, and added to the above, is re- commended for invalids. For a spring drink, having very cooling properties, rhubarb should he boiled as above, adding a little more sugar, or, one gallon of cold water added to three lemons, sliced and bruised, with half a pound of sugar. For a summer beverage, a mixture of red currants and raspberries bruised, with half a pound of sugar and well stirred into a gallon of water, will be found excellent to allay thirst; and to render them more cooling, a little cream of tartar or citric acid may be added. Biffins.—These apples are prepared by ex- posure to a very gentle heat, and the process is long. They require to be put into a cool oven many times, perhaps seven or eight, and to be pressed after each baking. If the oven be too hot at first, the biffins will waste, and the dressing must be slowly and gently done. The lied Biffin or Minshul Crab are the sorts selected for drying. They should be stewed either in milk or wine. Birch Wine.—Tliis wine is sometimes made simply by boiling the sap of the birch- troc with sugar and adding a little lemon-peel. Whore other ingredients are added, the quantity of sugar is lessened. Allow three pounds of sugar, one of raisins, and an ounce of almonds, to each gallon of sap. Boil all together lialf an hour and skim; put it into a tub with some fresh yeast as soon as it has become cold, and in four or five days after it lias fonnentod strain olf into a cask. Tie up some almonds in a muslin bug, put them with tho wine until it has done fermenting, when they must be re- moved and the cask closed up for four or five months. It must then be racked off and bottled for use. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. a gallon. Bird's Nest Pudding. — Make the foundation of tho nest of blancmange, calf's foot jelly, or prepared com. Itasp the linds of three lemons and lay it round and on tho blanc- mange like the straw. Take out the contents of four eggs through a small hole, and fill the shells with hot blancmange, or prepared com; when cold, break off tho shells, and lay the egg-shaped blancmange in the nest. Birthday Syllabub.—Take of port and sherry each a pint, mix them with half a pint of brandy and a nutmeg grated; squeeze and strain the juice of two lemons into a large bowl and over half a pound of loaf sugar well broken into small pieces; stir the wine mixture into the bowl with the lemon-juice and sugar, and add new milk to it, or, if possible, milk the cow into it. This quantity of wine, &c., is suf- ficient for two quarts of milk. Probable cost, about Is. 3d., without the wine and brandy. Biscuit Drops.—Mix half a pound of flour with half a tea-spoonful of baking powder. Rub in four ounces of dripping, and add two ounces of sugar, two ounces of chopped peel, four ounces of currants, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix to a very stiff paste with one egg and a little milk. Drop the mixture in very small lumps on a floured tin, and bake in a good oven. Biscuit Powder.—Biscuits may be re- duced to a fine powder, by first drying them in a cool oven, and then rolling them with a common rolling-pin on a clean board. This kind of powdered biscuit is much used for infants' food. It should be passed through a sieve after rolling, and will then be fine enough for any purpose. Keep dry in a tin with a tight cover. Biscuits.—Recipes for preparing the fol- lowing varieties of biscuits will be found under their respective headings:— Abernetiiy Dover Albert Finger Almond Spicb Fruit American German Arrowroot Ginger Bread, Brown Ladies' Winb Breakfast Leman's Captains Lemon Caraway Lemon Rock Chocolatb Macaroons Cinnamon Majesty's Cream Milan Crisp Naples Damascus Peach Dessert Potato Devilled PUDDINO