cassell's cookery. Ixxviii few glasses of port after, and generally took beer with diiuier an well. Claret was considered a somewhat expensive luxury, and when introduced was generally brought on only at dessert for the purpose of finishing up with, ]>eLng often drunk after port. Now, however, it is a most common custom to drink claret witli dinner instead of beer. Of course the reason is that claret, and good claret too, can be now obtained in this country at a very cheap rate. Indeed, a most excellent sound claret can be bought for IGs. a dozen—only go to a respectable wine merchant, and always taste the wine before you buy it. We will now endeavour to examine into the general principles to lie observed in the service of wme. For instance, we know that it is customary to take a gkss of Ohablis with oysters, a ghiss of Madeira after turtle soup, a glass of dry shen-y with tish, &c., but why we do so is by no means so evident. Nature seems to tell us that port wine would be unsuitable with fish, nor do we think any one would care to si[. hock, however good, with walnuts. However, we learn by experience that there are certain flavours that combine together, and apparently suit, and others that do not. For instance, Chablis after oystei-s. Oysters have a strong flavour, and a light thin wine like Chablis cleauBes the palate after eating them, and somehow the oyster seems to make the wine taste better. On the other hand, tiya glassful of champagne after eating oy.stei-s, and you will find that you cannot detect the flavour of the champagne at all. Again, turtle is a rich, glutinous soup, and after a very rich dish some wine is required to cleanse the palate of a more generous nature than Chablis or hock: consequently, Madeii-a, or good East India sherry, or rum punch, is taken. After a light entree, such as a Vol-au-vent a la Financifere, or boUed fish of any kind, or whitebait, hock or pale sherry would be most appropriate. After a rich and glutinous fish like stewed eels, or after any entree with strong rich brown gi'avy, the palate requires something rather more stimulating, and, in my opinion, no wine in the world is equal to Burgundy to drink with dinner, either with water or with- oujl;. Still, claret, though not so stimulating, is an admirable wine to di'ink after rich dishes. I think it will be found that the general principle, that the richer the dish the more stimulating must be the wine, holds true for nearly all kinds of food. For instance, roast pork is a rich dish, and it is one of the few kuids of food that persons d^ink port wine after. Roast goose is another rich dish, and it is customary after eating roast goose to have a small liquor glass of brandy. I have a little further on quoted Fi-ancatelli's opinion with regard to the ser^-ice of wine, and it will be seen that he particularly calls attention to the absurd custom of serving sweet champagne early in dinner. As a rule, however, champagne is generally dry in this country. The Duke de Montebello's sec, Pommery and Greno's extra sec, and Heidseck's Monopole, are all admirable dry ^vines, and we think the former, though not equal in repute to the two latter, is quite their equal, both in quality and flavour. . ■ I would, however, caution persona against introducing champagne early m the dinner at all, whether it be dry or not. Indeed, it will be found best if the cham- pagne be diy not to serve it till the pi6ce de resistance has made its appearance. If the champagne be at all sweet, it had better not be served till the sweets. The French taste is far sweeter than the English: for instance, you will often see a body of grown-up Frenchmen enjoying sweets and dessert, including ev sugar plums, in a way that in England is only seen with young children. Cham en