( 444 ) MITT MtTT and larj>() si-usoning of thu folluwiiig in- groilioiits:—Sojiie l)road-cruiiiba, aweot horbH, uutmeg, popper, and suit; brush tho iiiuttuu chops over with yolk of egf^, and s]jrinkle Uie above mixture thickly over them ; then tie tho chops together in their original order, run a slender spit through them, and roast before a quick fire, basting them well with butter and the di-ippiugs from the meat, and tlirowing more of tho seasoning on them from time to time. Serve with the gravy from tho moat, and have ready besides a boat of gravy, to which has been added two tablo-spoonfuls of ketchup and a thickening of flour; lot this gravy boil; skim and mix it with the gravy m the dir^h. Kemember that all dishes of mutton shoidd bo served as hot as possible. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. Probable cost, lO^d. per pound. Suflicient for four or five persons. Mutton, Kebobbed (another way).—(See Ivcbobbcd fllutton or Veal. Mutton Kidneys (a la Maitre d'Hotel). —Broil three or four sheep's kidneys (see IMutton Ividneys, Broiled), lay them with the roimded side downwards, and put about one oimce of maitre d'hotel butter, prepared as follows, upon each one :—Put four ounces of fresh butter into an enamelled saucepan, add a little salt and cayenne, a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice; work these ingredients well together with the point of a knife, in a cool place. When thoroughly mixed divide the butter into equal parts, put a piece upon each kidney, and serve. Time, about six minutes to broil the kidneys. Probable cost, 4d. each. [See also Butter, a la Maitre d'Hotel). Mutton Kidneys, Bread-crumbed. —Take three or four mutton kidneys, cut them open from the rounded part without separating them; take off the thin skin, and pass a small skewer through the points and over the back'to keep them flat. Dissolve an oimce of butter in a frjdng-pan, dip each kidney in this, and afterwards strew some finely-grated bread- crumbs over them. Broil them over a clear fire for six minutes, three minutes each side, and dish them neatly on a hot dish. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled.—Skin the kidneys, and open them lengthwise with a knife until the fat or root is reached, then keep them open with a skewer ; season with pepper, and broil first on the cut side (this will best preserve the gravy from wasting into the fire when the other side is turned to it). Have ready a round of buttered toast, draw out the skewers and lay the kidneys on it, with a piece of butter, cayenne, and salt on each. Serve hot, or spread the following mixture, as a higher relish, over the toast:—Knead together an ounce of butter, a tea-spoonful of mustard, and cayenne to taste; moisten with a tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce. Serve hot. Time, six to eight minutes to broil. Probable cost, 4d. each. Allow one for each person. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled (another way).—Take throe or four sheep's kidneys, cut thum open hjngthwise from tho round part without dividing them; put a small skewer through the ends and over tho back so as to keep them flat. Sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and slightly oil them; then broil them over a clear fire for six minutes, three minutch each side; put them on a hot dish with the rounded side downwards. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Mutton Kidneys and Rumps {see Mutton liunips and Kidneys). Mutton Kidneys, Fried. — Remove the outer skni from half a dozen sheep's kidneys, cut them in halves, and season them rather highly with salt and cayenne. Fry them in hot butter over a brisk tire; when nicely browned upon both sides, serve them immediately on a hot dish. A dozen pieces of the crumb of bread of the same v,wc and shape may be fried in butter for two or three minutes, and each half kidney may be served upon one of these. When this is done, a cupful of good brown gravy should be put into the dish with the kidneys. Time, eight minutes to fry the kidneys. Pro- bable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Mutton Kidneys, Pried (another way). —Proceed as before directed for broiling, but put the kidneys into a frying-pan with an ounce of butter, and a little pepper sprinkled over them. When done on one side, turn for an equal time on the other. Remove to a hot dish, add pepper, cayenne, salt, and a little sauce (Harvey's or any other), and pour the gravy from the pan over them. Serve hot on toast or without. Time, seven or eight minutes. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient, allow one to each person. Mutton Kidneys, Stewed (a la Fran- 9aise).—Remove the skins from half a dozen fine mutton kidneys, and cut them lengthwise into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Season each piece rather highly ■vN'ith salt and cayenne, and dip it into some finely-powdered SAveet herbs, namely, parsley and thyme, two- thirds of the former and one of the latter; three or four finely-minced shallots may be added, if liked. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in the frying-pan, and put in the kidneys. Let them brown on both sides. When nearly cooked, dredge a little flour quicldy over them, add a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. WTien the gnivy is just upon the point of boiling, lift out the kidneys, put them on a hot dish, add two table- spoonfuls of either port or claret to the sauce, let it boil for one minute, then pour it over the meat. Garnish wath fried sippets. Time, six minutes to fry the kidneys. Probable cost of kidneys, 3d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Mutton Kidneys Stewed with Wine.—Slice two veal orfom- sheep's kidneys, and fry them in a little butter until nicely browned on both sides. Drain them from the butter, put them into a clean saucepan, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of cham- pagne, sherry, or any light wine. Add a little salt and cayenne, a table-spoonful of kek'hup, and a table-spoonful of good stock, and simmer