HAD ( 287 ) Gurnet, or Giirnard, Baked—The gurnet is a nicely-liavoured fish, with firm GURNET. white flesh, of an agreeable flavour. The head is very large, compared with the rest of the body. The most usual way of dressing it is to stufE and bake it. Clean it thoroughly, and cut off the gUls. Fill it with a good veal force- meat, sew up the body, and fasten the tail securely into the mouth of the fish. Butter a pie-dish, put in the fish, cover it with slices of bacon, and bake in a quick oven for half an hour or more. Serve with anchovy or parsley sauce. Sufficient, a moderate-sized fish for three persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Gurnet, Boiled.—Empty and cleanse the fish thoroughly. Cut off the fins and gills, and boil it gently in salted water. Serve on a napkin, garnish the dish with parsley, and send plain melted butter, or ancho\y, parsley, crab, or piquant sauce to table with it. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a moderate-sized gurnet for three persons. Gurnet, Fillets of.—Run the edge of a knife along the side of the spine, lift the flesh from the bone, and having thus removed the fillets, cut them into neat pieces, rub some flour over them, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them on a cloth, to free them from grease, and dish them neatly. Send any of the fish sauces to table in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost, imcertain. Sufficient, a moderate sized gurnet for three persons. H Hach^e Sauce.—Mince very finely half a dozen button - mushrooms, already stewed, llix with them a tea-spoonful of boiled parsley, and two large pickled gherkins, chopped small; •add pepper, salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon- juice. Warm aU over the fire for a minute or two, with two table-spoonfuls of good brown gravy. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or throe persons. Haddock, The.—The haddock is a fish which is deservedly much esteemed, the flesh being firm, rich, and delicate in flavour, besides which it is cheap and plentiful. It seldom weighs more than three or four pounds, and the largest fish is considered the best. It should be gutted as soon as possible, and a little salt put into the body, which should then be hung up to dry. Haddocks axe in season from June to January. Haddock, Baked.—Clean the fish, scrape the scales off, and fill it with a good veal forcemeat. Sew up the opening with a little strong thread, and put it into a pie-dish, with about two ounces of butter, broken into small pieces; baste frequently, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish with parsley and sUced lemon. It is an improvement to rub the haddock over with beaten egg, and sprinkle it with bread- crumbs before baking. Send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Time, a moderate-sized haddock, half an hour or more. Probable cost, lOd. or more. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked (another way).— Clean the fish, scrape off the scales, and fill it with a forcemeat made by chopping the liver, and mixing with it four table-spoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a tea- spoonful of mixed herbs chopped smaU, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a tea- * spoonful of pepper. Bind it together with the yolk of an egg, and sew the opening in the fish securely with thread. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped onion and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley at the bottom of a pie-dish, and pour over them an ounce of oil or clarified butter. Season the haddock with pepper and salt, and lay it on the minced herbs. Put the same quantity of onion and parsley over as under it, and pour on it a quarter of a pint of ale, stock, or water. Place three or four lumps of butter here and there on the fish, put a cover on the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the haddock in its own sauce. Time, a medium- sized haddock, from half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. and upwards. Sufficient for three or four persons. Haddock, Baked (another way).— Wash the fish, scrape off the scales, and in emptying it, open it as little as possible. Sprinkle a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a large lemon upon it; let it stand two or three hours, turning it over once or twice during the time. Mix the finely-grated rind of half a lemon with two ounces of gxated bread-crumbs, add half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Wipe the fish quite dry, brush it over with beaten egg, and strew the seasoned crumbs upon it. Put it on a wire drainer in a dish, pour on it four ounces of clarified butter, and bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it two or three times during the process. Send the gravy from the fish to table -with it. Time, from twenty minutes to half an hour to bake a moderate-sized fish. Sufficient for two or three persons. Probable cost of haddock, 9d. and upwards. Haddock, Baked (another way).—Clean and scale the haddock, wipe it very dry, and fill it with a good veal forcemeat. Sew up the sUt securely with strong thread, dredge a little