GOO GOO ( 261 ) tea-spoonful of salt, a drachm of cayenne pepper, and a pint of claret. Soak for a fortnight, then pour off the cloiu- liquid, and serve in a tm-een, or boil liiilf a cupful in half a pint of good gravy. If not wanted for immediate use, this sauce may be kept in a bottle closely corked. Pi-obablo cost, 'id., exclusive of the Avine. Sulhcient for one pint of siiuce. Goose, Cold, To Hash.—Cut the remains of a cold goose into small, convenient-sized pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let them fiy vmtil they are tender, but not bm-nt. Add as much stock or water as will be sauce for the hash, with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or clai'et, if liked. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain it, thicken it, if necessary, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot, but the gi'avy must not boil after the goose is added. If any goose-stuffing has been left, heat it in the oven. Place the goose on a hot dish, pom* the gravy over it, and garnish the dish with toasted bread and little heaps of stuffing. Time, thi'ee- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4d., ex- clusive of the cold meat, &c. Goose, Forcemeat for [see Forcemeat for Goose). Goose, Gravy for.—Slice a large onion, and fry it in a little butter, or good dripping, with half a pound of gravy-beef, until slightly browned. Pour over it i, pint and a half of water, ■with any bones or trimmings you may have, and simmer f ej tly for two hours. Skim oflE the fat, season yviia a little salt and pepper, and mix in the gravy that has dropped from the goose. Thicken with a table-spooirful of flour. Strain the gravy, put a little into the ■dish with the goose, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Apple sauce also usually accom- panies roast goose, frobable cost, lOd. Suffi- •cient for one pint of gravy. Goose, Gravy for (another way).—Put the giblets of the goose into a saucepan, with half a pound of gravy-beef, three or four green •sage-leaves, two small onions, a piece of toasted crust, some whole pepper, a little salt, and three pints of water. Bring the liquid to a boil, skim, and simmer gently for two hours and a half. Strain, and thicken with a little flour, and boil once more. Before serving, a glass of port or claret may be added, if liked. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the giblets and wine. Suffi- cient for two pints and a half of gravy. Goose, Gravy for (another way).—Cut a small onion into slices, and strew over these throe or four leaves of sage, finely powdered. Fry them for four or five minutes in a little butter, then add a small cupful of good stock, and mix in, verj- smoothly, a salt-spoonful of snlt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, two or three grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a glass of port or claret. Simmer for a few minutes, strain, and send to table a little of the gravy on the dish with the goose, and the rest in a tureen. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 4d. Sufficient for half a pint of gravy. I Goose, Green, Dressing a.—Truss a green goose in the same way as a fuU-gi'own I one. It must not be stuffed, but the inside I must be seasoned with pepper and salt, and two ^ or thi-ee ounces of fresh butter put, in to moisten it. Set the bird down to a clear, brisk fire, and when it is sufficiently cooked, serve with waters cresses round it, and send brown gi'avy I and either soitcI, gooseberry, or tomato sauce, : to table with it. Time, about thrce-quarteis of \ an hoiir to roast. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, 5s. I Goose, Grilled.—Take the remains I of cold goose. The legs, back, rump, and gizzard are especially suitable. The breast, I &:c., may be made into a hash. Dip the joints j in clarified butter, and score the flesh in two or j thi-ee places, pepper them rather highly, strew I a little salt over them, dip them in finely-grated I bread-crumbs, and, again, in the butter, and i broU them over a strong clear fire until brightly : browned. Serve either dry or with grill sauce (see'Grill Sauce). Time, three or four minutes to broil. Goose Hams.—Geese are in some parts salted, cured, and smoked. Cut the goose through the back, the breast, and legs. Rub a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre well into it, and, afterwards, half a poimd of salt, and two ounces of good brown sugar. Let the bird remain in pickle for thiee days, turning it every day, and rubbing it well with the pickle. Dip the pieces, wet with the brine, into sawdust, covering each piece AveU. Hang them in smoke for a Aveek, then let them hang in a dry place. Before using them, rub off the sawdust. They are eaten without further cooking, with bread and butter. The lean should be red, and the fat white. Goose, How to Choose.—Choose a I young goose. This is more easily said than done, as geese are frequently offered for sale when they are much too old to be eaten. The breast should be plump, the skin white, and the feet pliable and yeUow. If the last are red or stiff, the bird is old or stale. Although Michaelmas is the time for geese, they are in perfection about June; after Chiistmas the flesh is tough. A goose ought not to be eaten after it is a year old. It is said that Queen Elizabeth was the originator of the ISIichaelmas goose. She had one on the table before her when the news arrived of the defeat of the Spanish Ai-mada, and she commanded the same dish to be served every succeeding Michaelmas. Green or young geese come into season in March. Goose in Jelly, or Duck in Jelly. —Put the goose in a deep stewpan, and barely cover it with clean stock, or water. Put with it a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, two large onions, two bay-leaves, two or three sprigs of lemon thyme and sweet basil, with a small piece of tarragon. Put the cover on the saucepan, and simmer gently, until the meat parts easily from the bones. Take out the goose, drain it from the gra-v)', remove the bones, which may be