( 391 ) LOV LOB It the spawn, which has been well bruised in a mortar. Strain the soup through a tamis, return it again to the pan, and skim it thoroughly. Add a glass of light wine, half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, a tea- spoonful of good store sauce, a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a little cayenne, and, if required, a pinch of salt. Fry some small quenelles {see Lobster Quenelles), put them into the tureen with the pieces of lobster meat, pour on the soup, and serve immediately. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster Soup, with Milk.—Prepare the meat of the lobster as in the last recipe. Cut it very small, and mix with it the crumb of a French roll, finely grated. Put a pint and a half of milk and half a piat of water in a stewpan, season it with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper ; put into it, when boil- ing, the lobster, the French roU, and three ounces of fresh butter. Simmer gently for half an hour, and serve. If liked, preserved lobster can be used for making lobster soup. Lobster, Stewed.—Pick the meat care- fully from a medium-sized freshly-boiled lob- ster, cut it into dice, and put it in an enamelled stewpan, with half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, half a grain of cayenne, two ounces of fresh butter, a tea- spoonful of mustard, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Stew gently for five or six miautes, then add a glassful of light wine, simmer two or three minutes longer, and serve. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Probable cost of lobster, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster, Vols-au-yent of. Small.— Vols-au-vent are baked without moulds. They are rather difficult to make, and require great care. They should be made of the richest pufE paste, rolled out seven times. Leave the paste about an inch in thickness, and stamp it in rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, about two inches in diameter. Dip a smaller cutter, about an inch and a quarter in diameter, into hot water, and press it partly through the paste, leaving a border all round. Bake in a brisk oven; the vols-au-vent ought to rise consider- ably, and be lightly browned. When they are baked, scoop cut the inside of the piece marked out, being careful to preserve the top for a cover, and turn them on a piece of clean writing- paper to drain and diy. When ready, till them with a little minced lobster, prepared as for lobster patties, and serve neatly arranged on a napkin. If, after baking, the crust seems too light to hold the mixture, the inside may be strengthened by being brushed over with beaten egg. Time, about twenty minutes to bake the vols-au-vent. Probable cost, 3d. each. Locofoco Drink.—This is one of the hot drinks peculiar to America. Whisk the yolks of two fresh eggs for three or four minutes, add a little grated nutmeg, an ounce of honey, and a small glass of curaf;oa, and beat all together until thoroughly mixed. Add a pint of heated burgundy, and serve in glasses. London Candy.—Butter the inside of a preserving-pan rather thickly with fresh butter, and have ready prepared two or three buttered plates, a pastry-board dredged with flour and a few strips of whity-brown paper. Put _a quart of good treacle into the pan, and with it the grated rind and strained juice of a large, fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and let the treacle boil gently for some minutes. Keep dropping a little upon a buttered plate, and aa soon as the drop hardens, pour out at once. Kub the hands with butter, and as soon as the candy is sufficiently cool, pull the candy out, and fold it over again and again until it is quite hard. Put it then on the floured board, and cut it with a buttered knife into narrow strips. Twine a piece of paper roimd each one of these, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost of treacle, 6d. London Syllabub.—Put two ounces of loaf sugar with three-quarters of a pint of sherry or madeira into a bowl, and grate half a small nutmeg into it. If practicable, milk into it from the cow a quart of milk; if not, pro- cure the milk as new as possible, make it luke- warm, and pour it from a good height through a strainer upon the wine. Serve the syllabub frothed. Time, two or three minutes to warm the milk. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, ^d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Lord Mayor's Trifle.—Slice four penny spongecakes and lay them at the bottom of a deep trifle-dish. Put with them a dozen rata- fias, eight macaroons, and two wine-glassfuls of brandy. When the liquor is soaked up, spread a layer of strawberry or raspberry jam over the spongecakes, and cover them with a pint of rich cold custard. Pile whipped cream high over the top, and ornament with pink comfits. The cream should be whipped some hours before it is needed, and laid upon a reversed sieve to drain. Time, about an hour to whip the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lome Soup.—Put three pints of good stock into a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, a small sprig of lemon-thjone, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer gently for half an hour. Pick all the white meat fronx the remains of a cold roast chicken, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with the yolksr of two hard-boiled eggs, the crumb of half a French roll which has been soaked in milk and then pressed dry, and two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Strain the soup, and return it again to the saucepan. Stir the pounded ingredients thoroughly into it, simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve. Probable cost, Is. per quart, exclusive of the roast chicken. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Love Apple {see Tomato). Love Cakes.—Beat up four eggs with a small toa-cupf ul of good yeast and half a pint of warm milk. Make a hollow in the centre of a pound and a half of flour, throw in the inixturo!, and stir all together into a dough; work this dough, and put to it by degrees a