( 282 ) GEO QBE Probablo cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Q-reens, Stewed. — Take a bunch of frosh greens, wash in several waters, and cut them into quarters. Drain them well, and throw them into plenty of fast-lioiling water, Siiltod and skimmed, and boil for ten minutes. Take thom up, press the water from them, and throw them into cold water for half an hour. Drain them, tie them up, cover with stock, and add a bimch of herbs, an onion, one clove, a slice of fat bacon, and a little pepper and salt. Stew very gently till tender. Servo with mutton, lamb, or veal. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for four persons. Greens. Turnip, Boiled. —Put two table-spoonfuls of salt into a gallon of water: let it boil quickly, and remove the scum. Wash the greens in three or four waters ; remove the decayed outer leaves, and throw them into the water. Leave the saucepan uncovered, and boil the greens rapidly until tender. Drain the water well from them, and serve. If the water be very hard, a tiny piece of soda may be added, but care must be taken that it is tiny. If plenty of water is not allowed, turnip-greens will be \)itter. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. per bimch. Sufficient for five or six persons. . Grey Mullet.—The grey mullet is a smaU fish, seasonable during the heat of summer, and caught at the mouths of rivers, and some way up them. It is generally considered inferior to. the red mullet. It should be eaten quite fresh, and may be cooked in any of the ways directed for mackerel, which see. Grey mullet is seldom offered for sale. Griddle Cakes {see American Breakfast (or Griddle) Cakes). Griddle Cake, Indian {see Indian Griddle Cake). Griddle Cake, Irish {see Irish Griddle Cake). Grills, Gravy for {see Gravy for Grills and Broils). Grilse or Trout, To Pot.—Take half a dozen fish ; remove the bones, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, wash, and wipe them very dry. Pound in a mortar half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, half an inch of whole ginger, four cloves, four all- spice, and two chilies; mix these thoroughly. Put aU in a bag, and place it on the fish, which must be laid in a pie-dish, backs uppermost. Strew a dessert-spoonful of salt over them, and pouron them three-quarters of apoundof clarified butter. Tie three or four folds of paper over the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly two hours. When cold, remove the bag, put the fish into a fresh jar, and pour clarified butter over them. Probable cost, uncertain, the fish being seldom offered for sale. Groats. Gruel of {see Gruel of Embden Groats, and also Gruel of Patent Groats). Groseilles. Strop de.—Bmiso two or three pounds of red currants, and leave them in a jar until the next day. Pour off the juice, and boil it gently, with one pound of pounded loaf sugar to every jjint of juice. .Skim (^are- fidly, and bottle for use. A nice variation is made by putting one part of raspben-ies to two of red cun-ants. This syrup is useful for flavouring jellies, or, if mixed witli water, it makes a refreshing summer beverage. Time to boil the juice, a quai-ter of an hour. Probable cost of cun-ants, 3d. or 4d. i>er pound. Ground Rice Cheesecakes.—Mix a table-spoonful of ground rice smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of milk, and pour in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. Stir the mixture over the fire for three or four minutes, till it thickens, adding first, one ounce of butter and four large lumps of sugar, which have been well rubbed on the rind of a fresh lemon. When cold, stir in the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and a desseri-spoonful of lemon- juice. Line some patty-pans with a good crust, or puff paste, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. The cheesecakes may be dusted over with powdered cinnamon, or grated lemon-rind, before being baked. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for eight or ten cheesecakes. Ground Rice Cheesecakes, Plain.— Mix two oimces of groimd rice smoothly with a little cold milk, and pour on it a pint of boil- ing milk. Put it into a saucepan, with one ounce of butter, a tiny pinch of salt, the rind sf a lemon, and a little sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire for five or six minutes, until it thickens, then pour into a basin, and when cold add two well-beaten eggs. Line some patty- pans with a good crust, three-parts fill them with the mixture, strew a few currants over, and bake in a quick oven for about twentj'' minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for about two dozen cheesecakes. Ground Rice Cup Puddings.—^Mis two ounces of ground rice verj' smoothly with a little cold milk. Add half a piut of boiling milk, in which the rind of a lemon has been boiled, a limip of butter the size of an egg, and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire tiU it thickens, and when cold add three eggs, well beaten. Beat thoroughly for some minutes, then pour into buttered cups, or small moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Serve the puddinge as soon as they are taken from the oven, first turning them out on a dish. Wine, or sweet sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ground Rice Omelet.—Boil half an inch of stick cinnamon Arith half a pint of milk, and stir into it, when boiling, two table- spoonfuls of ground rico, which have been smoothly mixed with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and stir the mixture briskly. Pour it out, remove the cinnamon, and when cold add four eggs, well beaten, and sugar to taste. _ Boat th» mixture for five or six minutes. Divide it into throe parts; then fr>- those in bultor, until brightly browned. A piece of butter, the size of