C 355 ) LAM LAM Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two or thi-eo persons. Lamb Chops with. Cucumber Sauce. —Dip the chops in beiiten ogg and bread- crumbs, and fry them {see Lamb Chops, Fried). When nicely 'browned, aiTange them in a cii-ele on a hot dish, and put in the centre a sauce prepiu-ed as follows :—Peel a young fresh cucumber, and cut it into dice; strew a little pepper and salt over these. Melt three or four ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the cucumber, cover it closely, and place it on a moderate fire, shaking the pan frequently, to prevent sticking. When it is steamed until the pieces of cucumber are quite tender, but un- broken, serve them in the centre of the dish. Time, eight or nine minutes to boil the chops; about twenty ndnutes to stew the cucumber. Lamb Chops with Herbs.—Cut some chops from the loin or neck of lamb. Trim them neatly, and dip them first into clarified butter, and afterwards into a mixture made of equal quantities of chives and parsley. Fry them in hot fat until they arc nicely browned, or broil them over a clear fire, and serve them on a hot dish, garnished with crisped parsley. The following sauce may be sent to table -wdth them:—Take a sprig of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, and three or four leaves of tarragon. Strip the leaves from the stalks, wash them, and chop them small. Mix them smoothly with a piece of butter the size of an egg and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and pour over them half a pint of boiling gravy. Simmer four or five minutes over the fire, and rub out any lumps that may form. Season with a little salt and pepper, if required; add a table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and stir the sauce briskly o£E the fire into the weU-beat^n yolk of an egg. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to cook the chops; a quarter of an hour to prepare the gravy. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for thiee persons. Lamb, Cold (en Blanquette). — Take some cold lamb, mince it finely, and season it with a little salt and pepper. Supposing there to be a pound and a half of cold lamb, divide six large mushrooms into slices. Fry these in three ormces of butter for five minutes, then pour over them half a pint of good veal stock, mixed smoothly with a tea-spoonful of flour, and simmer gently for half an hour. Now add the minced lamb, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs mixed with four table-spoonfuls of cream. Let these heat very gently, stirring all the time. In ten minutes the "lamb A\-ill be ready to serve. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold lamb. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lamb, Cold Roast, Stew of.—Cold roast lamb is so very nice with a little mint sauce and mashed potatoes that it seems a pity to warm it up. When it is preferred hot, how- ever, the following is an excellent method of preparing it;—Cut the cold meat into thin slices, trim these neatly, and season them rather highly with pepper and a little salt. Dip each piece in finely -grated bread-crumbs which have been moistenfti, ji gravy, and strew over them a spoonful or two of finely-minced jiickles, such as gherkins, walnuts, &c. Pour over tho whole two table - spoonfuls of pickle vinegar and four table-spoonfuls of the gravj' of the meat. Put the dish in the oven, and let it remain until quite hot. Garnish with browned potato balls. Serve the meat in the dish in which it was heated, which may be placed in another covered with a napkin. Time, about half an hour to heat. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, two pounds of cold roast meat for three or four persons. Lamb, Cooked Whole (sometimes called Lamb a I'Espagnole).—On the Continent lambs are occasionally roasted entire, something like sucking pigs, and are very delicate and good. It is evident that for this the animal must be very yoimg, not more than five or six weeks old. The only preparation required is to remove the skm, take out the fry, and cut off the feet; then cover the lamb with slices of bacon fastened on with small string, put it down to a clear fire, and let it remain imtil done enough. Take the bacon off about a quarter of an hoiu' before the lamb is taken up, so that it may browTi, and take care that it is equally cooked all over. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serAong, and send bread sauce and brown giavy to table in a tureen. Time to roast, two hours and a half or three hours. Probable cost uncertain, lambs suitable for this dish being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Lamb Cutlets.—Take the best end of a well-hung neck of lamb. Saw it ofl: two or three inches from the t* p of the bones, leaving the cutlets about four inches long. Scrape off the meat from the end of the bone, so as to leave an inch quite bare. Chop oft" the thick part of the chine bone, and pare away the flat bones which adhere to the meat and spoil the shape. Flatten the cutlets with a cutlet bat. A butcher will always shape the cutlets if requested to do so. They may be either broiled plainly or egged, bread-crumbed, and fried. Green peas, asparagus, spinach, and mashed potatoes are all favourite accompaniments of lamb cutlets, and an infinite variety of sauces may be served with them. The sauce frequenth" givcs its name to the dish, as Cutlets a la Poulette, Cutlets a. la Eobert, wliich names simply mean cutlets served with Robert or Poulette sauce. There is no occasion for any waste in shaping cutlets, as the bones can be stewed down for gravy and the fat melted .for frying. Lamb Cutlets (a la Daupliine.)—5f# Cutlets, Lamb. Lamb Outlets (a la Princesse.)—iSce Lamb Cutlets, Superlative (sometimes called Lamb Cutlets i\ la Princesse). Lamb Cutlets (a la Robert).—Mince three or four large onions very finely; put thom into a stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, and brown them lightly over a gentle fire. Shake the pan about to prevent burning. Add