ORA ORA ( 476 ) and a quarter of fino flour. Add throo-quartcrs of a pound of nioiist suj^iir, one oiinco of grount, ginger, ono ounce of allupice, and half a pount of candied orange-pool cut into tliin Bhreds. AVTion the iugi-edients are thoroughly mixed, put them aside for some hours. lioU the mi.\turo out to the thickness of half an inch. Divide it into lingers, squares, or any forms which may bo preferred; brush these over with a littlo milk mixed with yolk of egg, and bake them on buttered tins in a cool oven. The cakes should be placed on the tins an inch apart from ono another. Time to bako, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Ss. Orange Gingerbread (another way).— See Gingerbread, Orange. Orange Gravy {sec Gravy, Orange). Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeons, Snipes, Woodcock, &c—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan with an onion cut_ into small pieces, half a dozen leaves of basil, the rind of half a small Seville orange, and, if the flavour is liked, a little lemon-rind also. Simmer the gravy gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Strain it, and add to it the juice of the orange, half a tea-spoonf\il of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a glassful of claret. Bring the sauce to the point of boiling, and serve very hot in a tureen. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the claret. Sufficient for five or six persons. Orange, Iced.—Take off the rind, and carefully remove as much of the white as pos- sible without drawing the juice; if bruised, oranges are useless for this purpose. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth, and then beat into it a pound of sugar, which should be of the best quality, and pounded; continue to beat for a quarter of an hour, when the oranges must be dipped singly into the egg and sugar mixture; this is best effected by running a strong thread through each, by which they can be attached to a rod suspended across the oven. In a cool oven they should dry without acquiring colour, and will resemble balls of ice. Time, about half an hour to dry. Sufiicient, half a pound of sugar to twelve oranges. Orange, Iced (another way).—"WTiisk the white of an egg to a firm froth, and mix with it eight ounces of pounded and sifted sugar; beat the mixture thoroughly for ten or fifteen minutes. Peel three or four large sound oranges; take away the white pith without breaking the skin of the fruit, put a double thread through each orange, and pass it through the sugar. Fasten the oranges by the thread to a piece of long stick, hang them in a very cool oven, and leave them until they are quite dry, but they must not be allowed to acquire any colour. Arrange the balls on a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of myrtle. Time, about ono hour to dry. Pro- bable cost V. f oranges, Id. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Orange, Isinglass Jelly.—Take half a dozen ripe oranges, one lemon, and one small Seville orange. Pare off the rinds of half of them very thinly, pour over them a quarter of a pint of bodmg water, and let them infuse lorluilt an hour. Squeeze out the juice, and strain it carefully. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass, or gektine, in throe-quarters of a pint of water, mix witli it the strained liquid in which the rinds have been soaked, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir over the fire, skimming carefully until it is on the point of boiling; then add the strained juice, stir and skim the liquid again, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire for two or three minutes, and pass the jelly tlirough a tamis until it is clear and bright. A table-spoonful of whisky may be added, and will be considered an improve- ment by many persons; a blade of saft'ron will deepen the colour. Pour the jelly into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place until it is set. If it is not clear, clarify it according to directions given under Calf's-Foot Jelly. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for a pint and a half mould. Orange Isinglass Jelly (to mould with oranges).—Prepare the orange jelly according to the directions given in the last recipe. ^Vhen it is quite clear pour a small quantity into a damp mould, and put it aside until it is set. Divide a ripe China orange into quarters, and whilst freeing it entirely from the white skin be careful not to break the thin skin which covers the sections. BoU the pieces of orange in a little thin sjTup for two or three minutes, then draui them well, and arrange them upon the layer of stiffened jelly in the mould. Pour the rest of the jelly over, and set it aside until it is sufficiently firm to turn out. If preferred, the mould may be filled with layers of orange and jelly, but of course one layer must stiffen before another is put on, and thus a much longer time will be required. Time, eight or ten hours to set the jeUy. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a quart mould. Orange Jelly.—Take four pounds of apple juice, made according to the directions given for Apple Jelly {see Apple Jelly). Put with this the strained juice of half a dozen oranges, and let it run through a jeUy bag ■;o make it clear. Put into the jelly bag the :;hin yellow rind of three oranges. Boil two Dounds and a half of loaf sugar with a quart of water. Skim it well, and clear away the thick white scum that settles on the sides of the pan with a sponge. When it is a thick syrup put the juice with it, and boil until a ittle jelly put upon a plate will set. Put into pots for use. Orange Jelly (another way).—Put the strained juice of four Seville oranges, and the thin lind of one, into an enamelled saucepan with a pint of water and eight oranges—freed entirely from the rind and white pith, and cut into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness— and the pips of all the oranges. Simrner very gently for half an hour, then strain the liquid until it is quite clear. Weigh this, boil it for five minutes, put with it its weight in good :.oaf sugar, and boil again until it jeUies. Put it into jars, cover it in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, altogether, about one hour. Probable cost of Seville oranges, Is. per dozen.