( 470 ) ONI ONI Onions, Bologna Sausage with (m- Bbloj^nii Siuisago with Onioiui). Onions, Brown, for Garnishing Stews.—Cut tho two (inds from hoiuo Hiuall silver onions, and throw tliom into boilinfj water for five miniitos. Drain thorn on an inverted «iovo, and when cool take off tho outer skins, and put them into a woll-buttorod aaute-pan, with a little butter and sugar, and fry them (tui-ning them over once) until thoy are lightly browned all over. Drain them well, and, ton minutes before they are used, put them into tho stow which they are intended to garnish. Time, about ton minutes to bro^vn the onions. Pro- bable cost, 3d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for a dish largo enough for five or six persons. Onions, Bullock's Heart with {sec Bullock's Heart, &c.). Onions, Burnt, for Soups and Gravies.—-Bm-nt onions for colouring and flavouring soups and gravies may be bought at most Italian warehouses for about 8d. per pound. A liquid answering very much the same purpose, though slightly acid, may be prepared at home and stored for use. It should be made as follows :—Mince a pound of onions very finely, and put them into an enamelled saucepan with a pint of boUing water, place them upon the fire, and let them remain for four or five minutes. Add a pound of sugar, and simmer until the sjTup is nearly black. Strain it into a pint of boiling \'inegar, stir briskly for a minute or two, and when cold bottle for use. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Onions, Coloured, for Soup Fla- vouring.—Put half a dozen large onions into an oven on a tin dish, with equal quantities of butter and sugar (previously well mixed together) on the top of each. As the mixture dissolves, baste the onions frequently with it; they must not get dry, but they should be black through, yet not burnt. A slow oven is re- quired. For imparting a fiavour and colour to soups black onions are very valuable. Pro- bable cost, IJd. per pound. Onions, Cow-heel Fried with {see Cow-heel Fried, &c.). Onions, Cucumbers Stewed with {see Cucumbers, &c.). Onions for Seasoning Sauces and Made Dishes.—Mince three or four onions very finely. Put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and let them boil until quite tender. Press them with their liquid through a hair sieve, when they are ready for use. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2d. Onions, Fowl with {see Fowl with Onions). Onions, Glazed, for Garnishing Beef, &c.—Take a dozen freshly-gathered large-sized onions, cut a thin slice off each end, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Take off the outer skin, scoop a small piece out of the middle of each onion, and put a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar into the empty spaces thus formed. Put two or throe slices of butter in a Btovqian. Ai-rango tho onions side by side in it, and jjlawj it on the fire, tuniing tho onions two or three- times that they may bo ofjually coloured all oyer. When nicely browned, moisten them with half a pint of good strong stock, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer very g<mtly until the sauce is reduced to glaze, liaste the onions frequently wliilst the sauce is simmering, and keep them warm until wanted for u»o. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient to garnish a moderate-sized piece of beef. Onions. How and Where to Keep. —Onions should bo fastened upon ropes, and hung from the ceiling of a cool, airy apart- ment. Thoy should not be hung in the store- room, on account of then- unpleasant odour. Onions, Pickled.—Onions, like all other pickles, are considered more wholesome, though less handsome, when prepared at home, than when bought at the warehouses. Home-made pickled onions are besides quite as expensive. The small silver onions are generally used for pickling, and should be obtained as soon aa possible after they are harvested, as they are then in the best condition. This will be about the middle of August. Peel the oniona until they look clear, being careful not to cut the bulb. If a little warm water be poured over them the task will not be quite so dis- agreeable. Throw them as they are peeled into a bowl of white-wine vinegar, and when they are all finished strain the vinegar into an enamelled stewpan, with an ounce of whole peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and an inch of whole ginger to each quart. Boil gently for five minutes, let the hquid cool, and pom- it over the onions. It must be boiled again twice before the onions are fastened up, and should be sufficient to cover them entirely. Put the pickle into jars, cork securely, and cover them with bladder, then store for use. If it is preferred, instead of boiling the vinegar three times, the onions may be thrown into it when boiling, and simmered gently for two minutes. Probable cost, onions. Is. or Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled (another way).—Pre- pare the onions as in the last recipe, but instead of throwing them when peeled into vinegar, throw them into brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg. Let them remain in this until the next day, then drain them, and lay them between two cloths to di-y. BoQ as much vinegar as wiU cover them with half a tea- spoonful of coriander seed, an inch of whole ginger, and an ounce of peppercorns to each quart. After the liquid has reached the boiling point, let it simmer gently for three minutes, and pour it out to cool. Put the onions into jars, divider tho spices amongst them, and cover them entirely with the cooled vinegar. Cork securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Store for use. This pickle should not be used until it has been kept a month. Probable cost, onions. Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon. Onions, Pickled (an easy method).—Peel tho onions according to tho directions already given. {See the last recipe but one). Put them aa they aro done into wide-mouthed glass bottles