OX ( 488 ) until tho luoat ia tontlor and parts oauily from the bones, then take it out, strain tho soup, skim the fat from tho top of tho liquid, brown it in a saucepan, and mix smoothly with it two ounces of lino Hour. Thicken tho soup with this, and llavour it with two tablo-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, add the pieces of tail, simmer a quarter of an hour longer, and servo. If preferred, tho vegetables may be crushcsd through a colander, and added to tho soiip in the form of a puree. A glassful of port may bo added or not. Serve fresh rolls with this soup. Time, four hours to simmer the soup. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Ox Tail, Stewed.—Take a fine ox tail, disjoint it, cut it into pieces about one inch and a half long, and divide the thick parts into quarters. Throw these pieces into boiling water, and let them remain for a quarter of an hour; then drain them, and soak them in cold water for an hour. Take them up, -wipe them with a soft cloth, and put them into a stewpan with two quarts of stock or water, a large onion stuck with three cloves, three carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently until the meat parts easily from the bones, then put the pieces on a hot dish, reduce the gravy, strain it over them, and garnish with toasted sippets. A little lemon- juice is by some persons considered an improve- ment. Time, three hours and a half to stew the tail. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 48. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Ox Tail, Stewed, with G-reen Peas or Spinach..—Stew the ox tail according to the directions given in the last recipe. When the meat is tender, lift it out, strain the gravy, and reduce it to half the quantity. Pour it again over the meat, let it simmer a few minutes, then serve the stew, neatly arranged, in a circle on a hot dish, with green peas or spinach in the centre. Time, three hours and a half to stew the ox tail. Probable cost of ox tails, Is. 6d. to 48. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ox Tail with Matelote Sauce.—Take a large fresh ox tail, disjoint it, cut it into pieces two inches long, and blanch these in boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then take them up, dra,in then, and soak them in cold water for three-quarters of an hour. Put them in a saucepan, cover them with broth or water, bring them to the boil, then simmer thom gently for two hours. Take them up, strain the sauce, thicken three-quarters of a pint of it with a dessert-spoonful of flour and a little butter, add a dozen and a half of small fried onions, and a dozen button mush- rooms (or, as a substitute, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup), a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme and basil, a bay- leaf, and a little salt and pepper. Stew gently and skim carefully until the meat parts easily from the bones. Then add a pounded anchovj"-, a little grated nutmeg, and a glassful of claret. Boil up again, and serve the ox tail j)ilod in the centre of a hot dish; garnish with toawtod sippets, and strain the sauce over all. Time alLogoLhor, tliroo hours and a half to stow tho ox tail. Sufficient for throe persons. Probable cost of ox tail, from Is. 6d. to 48. Ox Tail with Piquant Sauce.—Take a fresli ox tail, disjoint it, and cut it into pieces two inclies long. Put these pieces into boilmg water for a quarter of an hour, then soak thom in cold water for three-quarters of an liour. Drain tho jjieces well, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Place them in a sauce- pan, cover with a pint of stock or water, and bring thom gradually to the boil. Re- move the scum as it rises, and put in with the meat two sliced onions, two sliced carrots, a piece of garlic about tho size of a small pea, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, three cloves, and a little salt and pepper. Simmer gently until tho tail is tender and tho meat parts easily from the bones. Lift the meat out carefully, strain the sauce, stir into it a glass of sherry or madeira, a pinch of cayenne, four or five button onions, a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of pickled gherkins finely minced, and a little brown thickening. Put back the pieces of meat, let them simmer half an hour longer, and serve them piled up in the centre of a hot dish with the gravy poured over them. Time, three hours to stew the ox tan. Probable cost of ox tail, from Is. 6d. to 4s., according to the season. Sufficient for three persons. Ox Tongue.—Ox tongues are generally preferred either pickled or smoked, though they are occasionally cooked when fresh. Recipes for both are given. A fresh tongue, after being trimmed, should be soaked in plenty of cold 01 TONOUE. water for one hour before it is cooked, a green tongue just taken out of pickle for four hours, and a salted and dried tongue for twenty-four hours. In choosing a tongue, select a plump one with a smooth skin, which is a sign that it is young and tender. If the thin part of a tongue is not eaten it should be preserved and dried. It will grate hkc hung beef, and will be found excellent for flavouring omelettes, and also for making tongue toast. Ox Tongue, Boiled.—Soak the tongue. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of cold \N-ater, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of savourj' herbs. Bring the water verj- gradually to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer gently from three to four hours, according to the size. When the tongue is done enough—this may bo ascertained by pushing a skewer into it; if the skewer will enter easUy, the tongue is done—plunge it at OTiop into cold water, when the furred coaf ing can be easily drawn of£. If the tongue is to bo