LOB C 387 ) LOB and \'inegar, the quantities to be regulated "by taste and the size of the lobster. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. Sufficient, a medium-sized lobster for two or three persons. Lobster Croquettes. — Pick the meat carefully from the shell of a freshly-boiled hen lobster, and mince it very finely. Pound the coral and spawn in a mortar, and mix with it a little grated nutmeg, three grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, two table-spoon- fuls of white sauce, and the well-beaten yolks of thi-ee eggs. Add the minced lobster, and stir all these ingredients over a gentle fire until the egg is set. Spread the mixture on a plate, and when cold, make it up into the shape of corks. Dip these in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned all over. Drain them, and pile them upon a folded napkin, in a hot dish. Garnish with par&ley. Time, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Lobster Curry.—Pick the meat from the shell of a freshly-boiled medium-sized lobster, and cut it into neat square pieces. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry smoothly with a quar- ter of a pint of good stock. Mince two onions finely. Fry them in a little butter until they are tender without being browned, dredge a tea-spoonful of flour over them, pour over them the curry powder and stock, and stir the mix- ture imtil it thickens. Put in the pieces of lobster, and stew gently for half an hour. Just before serving, add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Put the lobster on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and send rice boiled as for curries to table with it. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Cutlets.—Cut the meat from a moderate-sized hen lobster into small dice. Beat half an ounce of butter and an ounce of dour over the fire till smooth, then add a gill of water, boil, and stir in a table-spoonful of cream, six drops of lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and cayenne, with lobster butter [see Lobster Butter) to redden the whole, and the lobster meat. Stir i he mixture over the fire, pour it on a plate till cold, then flour lightly and form into cutlets about a third of an inch thick and three inches long, stick a little piece of one of the small claws into each, dip each into beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs. Let the cutlets stand a few minutes, then dip them in egg and bread-crumbs a second time. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly coloured, and lace each cutlet as it is finished on a piece of lotting-paper before the fire. Arrange in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, two or three minutes to fry. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Lobster, Cutlets (another way).— See Cutlets of Lobster or Crab. Lobster Cutlets, Quickly Made.— Choose a verj' large lobster. Let it be half boiled; take the flesh out whole, cut it into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and dip these into beaten egg and highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Let them stand ten minutes, then dip them again, and fry them in hot butter till they are lightly browned all over. Drain them from the fat, and arrange them in a circle on a not dish, pour a quarter of a pint of lobster sauc :nto the centre, and send to table as hot as possible. Hot pickles should accompany this dish. The sauce should be made in the ordinary way. Time, eight minutes to fry. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Dressed, with Sauce Piquant.—Pick the meat from the body and claws of a freshly-boiled cock lobster, and divide it into neat pieces, about half an inch square. Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, pound them well, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a grain of cayenne. Add verj' gradually, by drops at first, beating weU between every addition, four table-spoonfuis of salad-oil, and afterwards two tt.ble spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a dessei-'.-spoonful of very hot chilli vinegar. This sauce ought to be of the consistency of good cream. Pour it just before serving over the lobster, and garnish with parsley. Time, half an hour to prepare. Pro- bable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Lobster Fricassee.—Pick the meat from the tail and claws of a medium-sized lobster, cut it into small squares, and put these in a saucepan with half a pint of good white sauce, pound the coral, and mix it smoothly with the liquid. Season with half a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of white pepper and pounded mace mixed. When the mixtiire is on the point of boiling take it from the fire, let it cool a moment, then add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. The white sauce may be made of a quarter of a pint of good beef stock and a quarter of a pint of cream, thickened with a little arrowroot; or, if no beef stock is at hand, the shell of the lobster may be boiled in half a pint of water and cream, flavouring and thicken- ing being added to it. Time, about ten minutes to bring the sauce to the boiling point. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persona. Lobster, Gratin of. —Take the meat from a good-sized lobster, cut the body in half, and pick out all the meat, which must be cut into thin slices. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan, with three shallots, finely minced. Brown them lightly, then mix iv a table-spoonful of flour, and when quite sniooth, half a pint of milk. Boil for five minutes. Put in the sliced lobster, a table-spoon- ' f ul of chopped parsley, a little salt and cay enne, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Stir all over the fire, and when boiling diuw the saucepan back, and add the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Fill the shell of the lobster with the mixture, sprinkle bread-crumbs over it, and pour on a little clarified butter. Put the shell in a hot oven for twenty minutes, dish on a napkin, and serve. Probable cost of lobster, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Lobster, Mayonnaise of.—Take out the meat of a freshly-boiled hen lobster, and cut it into small neat squares. Trim and wash two