FRO ( 281 ) FBE sugar. Cover the pieces of bread with them, or waiin some preserve, by placing it over boiling water, and sei-ve with the preserve on the top of each piece. Time, half an hour to prepare. French Timbale.—Line a round weU- huttered mould with short paste, and put a thin layer of forcemeat to correspond, com- posed of calf's Uver and bacon pounded, and highly seasoned with mace, nutmeg, lemon- peel, mai-joram, thyme, and a couple of cloves of giu-hc (the bacon and liver should be semi- fried separately before being pounded), cayenne pepper, and salt. Lard a piece of the lillet of veal, about three poimds, and cut it in thick slices across the grain of the meat. Fill up the mould with alternate layers of the veal, small thin slices of boiled ham, and the forcemeat, not forgetting to season with herbs and spices as above Koll out paste for a cover; see that it is even round the edge, and securely closed ; pinch it round with pastry pincers. Make an ornament of leaves with some of the paste, brush with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, and the heat has passed from it, pour in a thin glaze through the top, made from the bones and trimmings of veal, and some jelly of calf's foot. Time, two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost of veal, Is. 4d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Friar's Chicken Soup.—Cut up three nice plump chickens, or a couple of young fowls. Put them into a saucepan, with some clear stock, if it can be obtained, or two quarts of water. Shred some parsley, and when the chickens are sufficiently cooked, take them up, and keep them hot. Thi'ow in the parsley, simmer a few minutes longer, when stir in the whole of four weU-beaten eggs, and remove at once from the fire. Flavour to taste with salt and pepper. Serve with the chicken in the tureen. Friar's Omelet.—Make a light batter of three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of butter (melted), two of sugar, and half a dozen stewed apples, reduced to a pulp. When well beaten ' together, fry as an omelet in butter. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Fricandellans.—Take two pounds of beef, tender, and free from bone, gristle, or fat; mince, and then pound it with twelve ounces of shred suet; flavour with salt, black pepper, and a small pinch of cayenne. When pounded to a smooth paste, add half a pint of thick cream, four eggs, well beaten, and as much bread- crumbs as may be found necessarj-. Make the paste up into the usual oblong form, and boil in boiling stock ten minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 9d. for this quantity. Fricandelle, Boiled.—Use any meat for this dish. If veal, chop the fat and lean together; but if mutton, remove the fat, and take butter instead. Chop one pound of cold roast veal, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix bread-crumbs, and break an ounce of butter into bits with them; add a little good veal gravy, and a couple of eggs. Mix well, and press into a buttered mould. When boiled the fricandelle should be turned out, and served with a brown gravy over it. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, one pound of meat for two or thi-ee persons. Fricandelles, Fried.—Mince first, and then pound together, beef and suet, in the propor- tion of a quaorter of a pound of suet to one pound of meat. Roast, or any cold beef may be used, but uncooked meat is best. Smooth to a paste with an egg or two, and a little water. Add three ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a little shred onion, salt, and pepper. Make into egg-shapeci balls, and fry in butter to a deUcate brown; or, they may be baked with a mixture of mashed potatoes as a substitute for bread, and fat bacon instead of suet. Time, ten minutes to fry. Beef, Is. per pound. Fricassee Chaudfroid.—Put a, nice plump chicken, trussed as for boiling, into a saucepan, with a quart of veal stock, and boil and skim in the usual way. When done, put the chicken on a dish, and boil a pint of the stock with a few mushrooms, until reduced; then, with the stewpan removed from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream. Season well with nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and stir in the juice of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar. Stir over the fire for a little time, but do not boil. Cover the chicken with the sauce, which should be cut up and pUed high in the centre of a dish. Let it become cold and firm, then garnish with aspic jelly. Fromage Cuit.—Moisten eight or tem ounces of good cheese, broken into small bits, with half a pint of thick cream. Rub it smooth in a mortar, and add two eggs, with the white of one, both beaten together, and a pinch of cayenne. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Frontignac.—Put the whites of two well- beaten eggs, with eighteen pounds of good loaf sugar, in a vessel containing six gallons of Avater. Take off the scum when it boils, and throw in half a gallon of elder-flowers; now let ! the liquor cool, and. stir in a glass and a half of lemon-juice and four or five spoonfuls of yeast, which should be well mixed up with it. Put in half a dozen pounds of the best raisins, weighed after being stoned, stir it every- day, pour it into a cask, and stop it close. It improves by- keeping. Time, bottle in six months. Frost, or Icing, for Cakes.—Put two- pounds of what is called icing sugar into a bowl, and mix with it the whites only of two, or,, if necessary, of three eggs, or even four, and a few drops of lemon-juice. The fewer eggs the better. The egg-whites must not be beaten. Stir the sugar vigorously till there is a smooth thick paste that will not run; this will call for both strength and patience. Lay the icing on the cake with hands dipped frequently into cold water, and smooth it with an ivory knife dipped in cold water. Let it harden in a cooj oven. Froth, to set on Creams, Custard, &C.—Beat the whites of four or five eggs to a froth; stew damsons, or any other fruit, until they can be pulped through a sieve, then beat the pulp with the frothed eggs until the fork will stand upright in it. Put it with a spoon on the top of tnfle, cream, or custard; it should.