HAB ( 289 ) HAP dish. Take a table-spoonful of mushrooraB, rhoppcd sHiall, a table-spoonful of finely-mmced shallots, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put these into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce. Sinuner for a quarter of an hour, and serve in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fi-y. Probable cost of haddocks, 9d. each and upwards. Sufficient, one moderate- sized haddock for three persons. Haddock, Finnan. — The Finnan or Findleom haddock is so named from the village of Findleom, about six miles from Aberdeen, where they are prepared in large quantities. They may be imitated with tolerable success as follows :—Clean a haddock thoroughly, cut off the head, spht the fish open, and lay it in salt for two hours. Wet it with pyioligueous acid, and hang it in a dry place for two or three days. The acid will impart the proper smoky flavour. Time, two hours to lie in salt. Pro- bable cost, 9d. or lOd. each. Haddock, Finnan {see also Findon or Finnan Haddocks). Haddock, Finnan, To Broil.—Heat the haddock gradually, either over or before a clear fire, turning it occasionally, till it is quite hot. Eub a little butter over it before sending it to table. If very salt, it should be soaked in water for an hour before it is wanted. Time, eight or ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Finnan, To Prepare.—Cut a moderate-sized Finnan haddock into four or five pieces, wash and drain them well, and put them into a dish with a closely-fitting lid; pour boiling water over them, place the lid on to prevent the steam escaping, and let them soak for ten minutes. Take them out, rub a little butter over them, place them on a hot dish, and serve immediately. A bunch of savoury herbs may be put into the basin with the fish. Pro- bable cost, 5d. or 6d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Fried.—^Wash and scale the fish. Dry it well, cut off the head and tail, and divide it into three or four pieces. Take out the backbone, dip the slices in beaten egg, and afterwards strew bread-crumbs thickly over them. Fry them in boiling lard or dripping till they are brightly browned, drain, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley and sliced lemon, and send shrimp or anchovy sauce to table with the fish. Time, ten minutes to fry. Probable cost of haddocks, 9d. each and upwards. Sufficient, one moderate-sized fish for three or four persons. Haddock, Pickled.—Mix a table-spoon- ful of salt with half a table-spoonful of pepper and a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Take four good-sized haddocks, wash and scale them, divide them into slices an inch thick, and put them at the bottom of a deep baking- dish, in layers, with the seasoning and four finoly-minced onions, strewn over each layer. Pour over all two pints of vinegar and one pint of water. Lay two or three bay-loaves at the top, cover the dish closely, and bake in a moderate oven. Let the haddocks get cold, then pour over thom some melted lard or cLirified K butter. Keep the air from them, and they wiU remain good some time. Time, two hours to bake. Probable cost, 9d. each or upwards. Haddock, Rechauffe of. — Lift the meat from the bones in neat pieces, remove the skin, and put them into a baking-dish. Season them with a little pepper and salt, and pour over them some good melted butter, flavoured with the essence of anchovy. Allow a quarter of a pint of melted butter to every pound of meat. Grate some bread-crumbs on the top, and put little bits of butter here and there. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish, with pickled walnuts as an accompaniment. Time, to bake about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for two persons. Haddock, Rechaufil^ of (another way). —Take the remains of cold haddock, remove the skin and bone, and divide into flakes. Mix thoroughly a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallots, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, with a pinch of finely-minced lemon-rind. Put the flakes of fish into a baldng- dish, sprinkle the powder over them, and pour on three table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Grate bread-crumbs thickly over, and bake in a moderate oven. Brown the top, if necessary, by holding a red-hot shovel or salamander over it, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over before serving. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold fish. One pound of fish is sufficient for two or three persons. Haddock Soup.—Take three haddocks, fillet them, and put .the skins, heads, tails, bones, and fins, into a saucepan, with two quarts of stock, a bunch of parsley, two or three onions, and half a dozen peppercorns, and let them sim- mer gently for an hour and a half. Strain the soup. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan, add two ounces of lean ham, cut into dice, let them remain untU brown, then mix in, very smoothly, two table-spoonfuls of flour. When this is brown, add, very gradually, the strained soup, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put in the pieces of fish, and, when they are sufficiently cooked, serve in a soup-tttreen. A little ketchup or Madeii-a may be added, if liked. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pro- bable cost, Is. 5d. per quart. Haddock Soup (another way).—Pick all the flesh from the bones of a large and very fresh haddock. Put the bones, head, &c., into two quarts of stock, with an onion, a carrot, and a blade of mace, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an horn- or more. Pound the meat in a mortar, and with it the crumb of a French roll, which has been soaked in milk and drained, a pint of picked shrimps, and a table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Strain the gravy, mix it gradually with the fish, &c., and boil all together for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, pass the soup through a coarse sieve, thicken it with a littlo flour and butter, let it warm up once more, and serve. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Suffi- cient for five or six persons.