( IW) EGG EEL Eels, Potted.—Cooked in this manner they are said to bo richer and bettor when unakinned. Choose young eels, and cleanBo them aa follows:— Hold the head o^ the fish in your loft hand, grasp it firmly between the thumb and finger; in the other hand have ready a clotli with a good quantity of coarse salt; di'aw the eel through, pressing it tightly as it passes through the salt, then soak in salt and water one hour. When thoroughly cleansed, cat them into pieces about two inches long, put thom into a brown oarthom pot with a cover, season with salt, pepper, and aUapice. Pour vinegar and water on thom, and bake in a slow oven till tender. The pickled eels that are sent from the northern countries of Europe to the south are not skinned. Eels Roasted in the Ashes.—River fish caught in the neighbourhood of farms are roasted expeditiously on the hearth of a wood fire. Wten skinned and cleaned, they are rolled into a spiral form, dusted with pepper and salt, and enclosed in a double buttered paper. A hot part of the hearth is then swept clean, and the papered fish laid upon it. Hot ashes are next shovelled over tiU every part is covered, and when the eels are suffi- cientlj" done, the outside paper is removed, and they are thus sent to table accompanied by plain melted butter or any sauce at hand. Time, about half an hour, or according to the heat of the ashes. Eels, Sauce for.—Eels are generally cooked without their skins, thus rendering them more delicate, and requiring only a mild sauce, such as capers, sorrel, or parsley and butter for boiled eels ; but when very rich, as they always are if the skins are retained, some piquante sauce is necessary (see Sauce a la Tartare). Eels, Spitcheocked.—Large eels are best for this mode of cooking. When skinned and split, the back bones should be taken out SPITCHCOCKED EELS. carefully without tearing the fish, and they should be divided into three or f oui'-inch pieces. Have ready a seasoning of chopped parsley, a very little sage, a blade of mace pounded, pepper, and salt; let the pieces be well smeared with warmed butter and lemon-juice (or let them lie in it for two or three minutes], then strew the seasoning over, and dip each piece in egg and bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, and aerve in a round on tho dish with sauce piquante in the middle. Some prefer plain melted butter with the j uice of lemon. Time, twenty minutes to fry. Probable coat, 6d. to 13. per pound. Eel Spitohoocked (another way).—Skin and clean a krgo eol, and lard it with verj- thin narrow atrips of bacon; make a seasoning of lierbs, salt, and popper; aprinkle tho eel all over with it, then put equal quantitiea of good veal broth and vinegar into a dish, and lay the fish in for throe houra ; let there be enough to cover it. Drain it dry, and fold it in a buttered paper, firat turning and skewering it backwards and forwards, that it may be more conveniently cooked. When on the spit, baste frequently; and add half a pint of white wine to mix with the drippings in tho pan for this purpose. Take off tho paj^er a few minutes before it is quite done, and baste and flour, that it may bo of a nice brown. Fried bread may be placed round the dish, and broiled slices of salmon; or they may be varied with small soles fried of a beautiful colour. Time to roast, from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, from 6d. to Is. per pound. Eels, Stewed.—Divide four large eels into pieces of about two inches, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace. Lay them in a deep dish with a little veal stock, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a very little chopped parsley sprinkled in layers over them. Tie down with a paper, first putting some small bits of butter on the top. Stewed eels are always best when done in a moderate oven. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 6d. to Is. per pound. Egg and Brandy Cream.—Beat well the yolks of fi\o fresh eggs with a spoonful of cream. Add three ounces of sugar, finely pounded and sifted, and two glasses of the best French brandy. Blanch and pound forty almonds, thirty-four sweet ones and six bitter ones, and boil them in a few spoonfuls of milk; add them, when cold, to the eggs, and stir the mixture thoroughly. When it is perfectly mixed, pour it into a well-lined saucepan along with a quart of cream; stir one way till it becomes thick, but do not let it boil. Serve in custard-cups with a ratafia on the top of each. Probable cost, about 48. 9d. Sufficient for twelve cups. Egg Balls.—Boil some eggs tiU they are hard, separate the yolks, pound them, and with the yolks of raw eggs and a little flour, roll up into small balls. These balls are used for turtle soup. Egg Balls (another way).—To one egg put just as little flour as wiU make it into a paste that you can pinch into shape with your fingers. Season with pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and less chopped lemon-peel cut very thin. Work these into pellets the size of marbles, making a few of them long like miniature sausages. Put them into boiling broth, and let them boil galloping till their substance is set. Egg Barley Soup (German).—To the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and the whites of one, add as much flour as wiU make"a stiff hard ball. Grate it on a coarse bread-grater; let the gratings fall separately over a largo space, and let them dry ; then spriiikle them lightly into boiling broth, and serve. Probable cost, 6d per quart.