PON 1217) FOB Pondu (il ritalionno).—Gratohalf a pound of I'aniifsan, Gniy^re, or any good diy cheese, and stir over the tire half a pint of cream, with enough Horn- to thicken it. When of the con- sistency of melted butter, add the cheese and a little salt. Mix till the heat has gone off, then blend with the above ingi-edients four well-beaten yolks of eggs, and last of all five whites whipped to a hnn froth. Bake in a papered tin and in a hot oven, filling the tin to only half its depth. The fondu should rise very high, and be served immediately, or it will fall, and the appearance be spoiled. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pondu (en Caisses).—This fondu may be made in any form desired—small paper cases, moulds, or tart-tins. Pound in a moi-tar, with egg to moisten, equal quantities of Swiss, Par- mesan, and cream cheese (a quarter of a pound of each). Moisten with five eggs; mix the egg gradually while pounding. Bake in a hot oven, allowing time to give the fondu a rich colour. Serve quickly. Time, about ten minutes to bake. Porcemeat, Almond.—Beat up the yolks of three eggs with a quarter of a pint of good cream, and flavour with a little nutmeg. Blanch and pound in a mortar three ounces of sweet almonds, using white of egg to moisten. Add these, with three-quarters of a pound of light bread-crumbs, and three ounces of butter broken into small bits, to the egg mixtui'e. Stir in, lastly, the whites of the eggs whisked to a solid froth, and fill either capon or turkey. Porcemeat Balls.—Chop a quarter of a pound of beef suet, a little lemon-peel, and parsley. Mix with a basin of bread-crumbs, and flavour with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Moisten with the yolks of two eggs, roll in flom-, and make up into small balls. Bake in a hot oven till crisp. This recipe will do for fowls. The addition of a little ham, chopped or pounded, will be found a considerable improve- ment. Porcemeat Balls, Brain. —Clean and soak the brains in lukewarm water for three hours, then boil. When cold, poimd them in a mortar with a little flour, some chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Bind with raw egg, and make into small baUs. Fry a light brown, and drop them into the tureen. Time, ten minutes to boil. Porcemeat BaUs, Curry. — Pound together bread-crumbs, hard-boUed yolks of eggs, a small quantity of butter, and a season- mg of curry powder and salt. Make into small balls. Time to fry, two or three minutes. Porcemeat BaUs, Egg. — Pound the hard-boiled yolks of half a dozen eggs with some chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of floirr, a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Moisten with egg, and make the paste into small balls. Boil for two minutes before using in soup or other dishes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for one tureen of soup. Porcemeat Balls for Mock-Turtle OOUps. —The delicate French preparation, Panada, wiU, if used in the composition of those balls, be found a gi'cat improvement. Prepare it thus :—Soak the crumb of two or three rolls. Put it into a small saucepan by the side of the fire, with enough pale rich gravy to cover it. When sufficiently boiled, squeeze oflE the moisture, put the panada into an enamelled saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon till dry; then mix with it the yolks of two un- beaten eggs, and let it cool for use. Pound in a mortar four ounces of veal, free from gristle, bone, and skin; add the panada to this, with three ounces of fresh butter. Season with nut- meg, mace, salt, and cayeime. If liked, a little lean ham and more seasoning may be used. Koll into balls, and boil before adding to the eoup. Time, twelve minutes to boil. Porcemeat, Chestnut.—Remove the outer skin from some chestnuts (they should be ripe and sound). Boil them for two or three minutes to get off the inner skin. Peel them, and to preserve their colour, throw them into cold water; drain and weigh them. Stew six ounces of them gently for about twenty minute3 in veal gravy. Let them get cold, pound them till smooth with an equal quantity of butter, or half their weight in fat bacon, and add two ounces of bread-crumbs, and a little salt, lemon-rind, and nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of two eggs. If this forcemeat is formed into cakes, these should be dipped into flour before being fried. Time to fry, fifteen minutes. Porcemeat, Prench, Boiled Calf's Udder for. — The calf's udder is used in Prench cookery instead of butter. It is first boiled, then pounded, and passed through a sieve, when it is fit for mixing in the composi- tion of their exquisitely delicate forcemeats. Porcemeat for Baked Pike.—Prepare three ounces of bread-crumbs from a stale loaf, shred two ounces of suet, and mince eight or ten bearded oysters. Put these together into a stewpan, with a flavouring of mace (pounded), salt, and pepper. Moisten with the liquor from the oysters, and six table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Bind with the yolks of two eggs, and stir over the fii-e till the forcemeat thickens. Stuff this forcemeat iato the pike, and sew the fish up securely. Time to thicken forcemeat, four or five minutes; to bake pike, one horn-, more or less. Sufficient for one pike. Porcemeat for Carp.—Prepare from a stale loaf half a pound of crumbs, and mince one dozen oysters, divested of beards; add two ounces of finely-shred suet, and the same of bacon or ham, and good fresh butter. Flavour -with salt, nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of savour)' herbs, and a little parsley, all of which should be minced small. Blend together with three weU-beaten eggs. Stuff the fish, and sew up securely. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for one fish. Porcemeat for Cold Pasties.—Foi savoury pasties, to be eaten cold, use a force- meat of fowl—an old fowl will answer this purpose. Strip off the sldn, and clear the flesh from the bones; pound the flesh in a mortar; soak some white bread ia milk, squeeze it dry,