( 373 ) LEM required, it can be used at the end of two months. The colour would be improved if two or three bruised tomatoes were put with it. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for one quart of ketchup. Lemon Ketchup (a quick -way of making).—Take half a dozen fresh lemons. Cut them into slices, remove the pips, rub them well with three ounces of salt, place them in layers in a stone jar, and strew a little seasoning and spice between each layer, allowing a quarter of an oxmce each of mace, cloves, and cayenne, two oimces of horseradish, two ounces of mustard-seed, two ounces of allspice, and two ounces of white pepper. Boil two quarts of white vinegar, pour it hot upon the lemons, and let it stand imtil the next day. Strain, and bottle for use. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Siifficient for two quarts. Lemon Liquor.—Infuse the thin rind of two large, fresh lemons in a pint of rectified spirits of wine, for ten days. At the end of that time, strain, and mix with it the juice of the lemons and a syrup made by boiling haK a pound of refined sugar in a pint of water for five minutes. Pour the liquor into bottles, cork securely, and tie bladder over the corks. Probable cost, od., exclusive of the spirit. Suf- ficient for a Uttle more than a quart of liquor. Lemon Lozenges and Pipes.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum tragacanth into a quarter of a pint of water. Add the strained juice of three lemons, and the rind cut into thin slices. Let it remain for three or four days, until the gum forms a mucilage, and stir it frequently during that time. Strain it into a mortar, and mix with it, very gradually,_one pound of powdered loaf sugar, and be careful that one part is thoroughly mixed before another is added. When a white and flexible paste has been thus prepared, dust a little starch over it to keep it from sticking, and roll it into a sheet about as thick as a halfpenny. Cut it into lozenges with the back of a blunt knife, or roll it into pipes of the required length. Arrange them on a plate, and diy them in a warm oven. Probable cost, Is. Lemon Marmalade.—Take some fresh clear lemons. Boil them in as much water as will cover them for two hours. Pour off the water once or twice during that time, and replace it with fresh boiling water. Drain the lemons, and cut them into thin slices. Leave out all the pips and weigh the fruit, and allow two pounds of loaf sugar and a pint of the water the lemons were last boiled in for every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes. Put in the pulp, &c., and boil together for haK an hour. Pour the mar- malade into jars; when cool, cover it with brandicd paper, and afterwards with bladder or tissue-paper brushed over either with white of egg or dissolved gum. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Lemon Marmalade (another way).— Boil and slice the lemons as in the last recipe; mix them thoroughly with an equal weight of apple pulp. Make a sjTup, by boiling one pint of water with every two pounds of sugar, allowing two pounds of sugar to every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, put in the fruit, and boil again until it is clear. Put it into jars, let it cool, and cover in the usual way. Time, two hours to boil the lemons; forty minutes the marmalade. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Lemon Mincemeat.—Peel two large fresh lemons very thinly, squeeze the juice from them, being careful to leave out the pips, and boil the rind imtil it is tender enough to beat to a paste. Add four sharp apples, pared, cored, and chopped small, half a pound of finely-shred suet, a pound of currants, half a pound of good moist sugar, two ounces of can- died lemon and citron, half a nutmeg, grated, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, a small pinch of salt, and the lemon-juice. ]\Iix all thoroughly, then put the mincemeat into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and let it remain for a week before it is used. A little brandy may be added if liked. Jvist before making the meat up into pies, add three or four macaroons crushed to powder. Time, an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for two dozen small pies. Lemon Paste for Dessert. — Choose sound fresh lemons, boil them in two or three waters, and season the first with a handful of salt. When they are tender, drain and let them cool, then put them into a bowl, and beat them to a pulp with a rolling-pin. Pass this pulp through a sieve, and squeeze it well to cause as much as possible to go through. Weigh the pulp. Mix with it an equal quan- tity of pounded sugar, and stii- it without ceasing until it is so dry as to leave the sides of the saucepan and come up with the spoon. Press it into shallow dishes, and put these into a cool oven imtil the paste is quite dry. It may then be cut into small squares, strips, or any other shape. These should be placed in single layers in a tin box, with foolscap paper between the layers. Time, altogether, about four hours. Probable cost of lemons, Id. each. Lemon Patties.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon with three ounces of loaf sugar. Crush it to powder, and mix it with the finely-grated crumb of a penny loaf. Pour over the mixture a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and soak for half an hour. At the end of that time stir in two ounces of clarified butter and two well- beaten eggs. Butter some small cups, rathoj' more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When done, turn the patties out on a hot dish, and send wine sauce to table with them. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen patties. Lemon Peel, Tincture of.—Tako the thin rind of a large fresli lemon. Put it in a bottle with half a pint of brandy, and let it infuse for a fortnight. At the end of that time the brandy will be strongly impregnated with the flavour of the lemon, and should be strained, corlccd closely, and put aside for use. Probable cost of lemon, Id. Sufficient, a tea- spoonful will flavour a pint of custard, &c.