(211) should first bo thoroughly dried, then rubbed all over with oil, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Occasionally a little chopped parsley is added to the seasoning. The oil will keep the fish from becoming dry whilst it is being cooked. Be careful to have a clear bright fire for grilling fish. Make the gridiron hot on both sides, and rub it well with mutton fat, to keep the fish from sticking. Place it upon the bars, keep moving it about, and turn it occa- sionally, that it may be equally cooked on both sides. When it is done through and is lightly browned all over it is ready to serve. Some- times fish that is to be grilled is floured after it is oiled, and this helps to give it a good colour. When it is wished that the fish should be very delicately prepared it is wrapped in well oiled paper, but this method requires care, or the paper may bum or become dirty and unsightly. Broiled fish may either be without sauce, or piquant sauce may be sent to table with it. Pish, Jelly for.—Boil down a skate, cow- heel, or calf 8 foot, in three pints of water, until it is reduced to a quart. Skim it carefully, strain it, and boil it again with a small onion stuck with one or two cloves, a slice of ham, a little parsley, and haK an anchovy pounded in butter. When it is nicely flavoured pour it oft", remove the fai, and if it is not suiEciently clear clarify it with white of egg. A glassful of sherry may be added or not. It will be fit for use when cold, and should be laid over the fish roughly. Probable cost, about Is. for this quantity. Fish Kedgeree.—Pick some cooked sal, mon, turbot, or other fish into flakes, and boil a cupful of rice in good white broth; add the fish to the rice, and when hot through, stir in an egg, and serve. Time, thirty minutes to boil rice. Probable cost, exclusive of fish, 4d. Fish Ketchup.—Pick out the meat from a lobster; get one that is full of spawn, and weighs about three pounds. Pound the coral and add it to the meat, with a small tea-spoon- ful of cayenne, salt, and some part of a bottle of sherry. When well pounded in a mortar together, add the remainder of the wine, or as much as is necessary. If put into bottles, and the air is kept out of them, the ketchup will keep good for twelve months, and any quantity may be used heated in melted butter. From three to four table-spoonftils wiU be enough for a large tureen of melted butter. Fish Kl'osse.—Clear half a pound of un- cooked fish from skin and bone, and mince two ounces of fat bacon ; blend them together with a seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and parsley. Brown a shallot, minced finely in a stewpan, with three ounces of butter, and then stir in and mix over the fire for a few minutes three ounces of bread-crumbs, two table-spoon- fuls of cream, and a couple of eggs. When cold, mix this, and the fish, «&c., together. Make into klosse with a spoon, and boil for ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of fish. {See KIdsse.) Fish Maigre, To dress.—Take boiling water, but only just enough to cover the fish, and let it simmer steadily till the fish is done, adding u biiiail tea-spoonful of peppercorns, six or eight allspice, and two middle-sized onions, each stuck with two cloves. With the li4Uor, when strained, put as much flour and butter as will make it of the consistency of milk ; flavour with wine, and any sauce—mushroom or an- chovy—and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. To each pint of sauce put a glass of wine, a small spoonful of ketchup, a tea-spoon- ful of anchovy sauce, and a few grains of cayenne. This sauce, after it has simmered a few Diinutes, should be strained over the fish, which must be served on a deep dish. Garnish with sippets of bread, fried. Time, from ten to twenty minutes to simmer, according to the size of the fish. Fish, Marinade for.—Fry in butter half a dozen shallots, three middle-sized onions, a couple of carrots, a bunch of parsley, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic. Cut the carrots, shallots, and onions small; pick and mince the herbs. Wlien they have simmered in the butter five or six minutes, pour in any light wine or cider—about three pints—and add a dessert-spoonful of peppercorns, the same of allspice, and two cloves. When the mixtui e has simmered for one hour and a half, strain for use. Insipid fish boiled in this marinade will acquire a flavour of a very agreeable kind, and the bones of smaU fish are rendered soft and eatable if gently stewed in it. Large fish should be cut into steaks; and if, after use, the marinade be carefully strained, it will serve several times. The expense, too, may be much lessened by using beer or vinegar, with the addition of a glass of soy, and the same of essence of anchovy and ketchup. (See also Marinade for Fish.) Fish, Fanada for.—Put one ounce of butter, and rather less than two gills of water into a saucepan, boil them together, and add, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of flour; stir until the mixture is smooth, but do not let it bum. When off the tire, mix with it the yolks of three well-beaten eggs. When cold it is fit for use. It is employed in making Forcemeat. Fish Pate.—Pick from the shell of a crab all that is good; pound it in a mortar with a small quantity of bread-crtunbs, and a seasort- ing of white pepper, cayenne, salt, and nut- meg ; add a very little gravy, which thicken with butter rolled in flour. Make it hot, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Have ready a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner rim of a flat dish; let it be two and a half inches high. Smooth and ornament it with leaves, flowers, or according to taste ; this can be done with a tin-cutter, and if egged and browned in the oven will have a very pretty appearance. Fill the centre with the fricassee, and brown with a salamander. Small patties may be made, and filled with this fricassee. Time, one hour to prepare potatoes. Sufficient, one pound for three persons. Fish, Pickled.—Any boiled fish may be kept good for another meal by simply mixing equal quantities of the water in which it was boiled and vinegar, together with an onion sliced, some fresh fennel, pepper, and salt. Put the fish into a deep dish, and throw the pickle