( 8H ) PAS PAts is thought by somo to impart a disagrooablo flavour of tallow to pastry. Tho quantity of fat usod must, of course, bo rtigulatod by tho expense, and it may bo romeuibevud that a rich crust is neither so digestible nor so suitable for many dishes as a substantial light one, and that tho lightness of pastry depends quite aa much upon a light, quick, cool hand as on a largo amount of butter or lard. The iiddition of a beaten egg or a little lemon-juice to tho water, or a tea-spoonful of baking-powder to the flour, will make tho paste lighter. It "should be remembered, however, that though baking- powder is excellent for common pastry that is to be used immediately, pies are more likely to get dry quickly when it is used. Two recipes aro hero given for good plain pastry, and they may be varied according to the taste and resources of tho cook. Paste for Meat or Fruit Pies, &c. —Mix the eighth part of a peck of flour with some cream and raw eggs. Add half a pound of butter broken in pieces, which must not be too small, and roll the paste lightly. To make paste for custards, mix the flour with boiling water and butter, sugar being added, if neces- sary. If this is done, it will be f oxmd to increase the stiffness of the paste. {See also Crust, Dripping.) Paste for Meat or Savoury Pies.— Sift two pounds of fine flour to one and a half of good salt butter, which has been broken up, and washed well in cold water; rub gently together the butter and flour, mix it up with the yolks of three eggs, beat together with a spoon, and nearly a pint of spring water; roll it out, double it in folds three times, and it is ready. Paste for Raised Pies.—In making raised pies the first consideration is whether the pastry is intended to be eaten or not. If it is intended merely to form a mould in which to hold the meat, it may be made firm and com- pact without very much difficulty, and may be beaten with the rolling-pin or kneaded with the knuckles to make it stiff and hard. If it is intended to be eaten, greater care wUl be necessary. It must be remembered that small pies are much easier to make than large ones, and the very easiest and best way for inexperienced persons to make them is to use one of the tin moulds manufactured for the purpose, which opens at the sides. The French pastry named Pate Brisee, the recipe for which is given {see Crust, Pate Brisee), makes a good crust for small raised pics. When tho pastry is not to be eaten, dissolve three or four ounces of lard in haK a pint of boiling water, and stir in as much flour as will make a stiff smooth paste. A little more than a pound of flour will be required. Knead it thoroughly with the fingers, and when it is sufficiently firm to keep its form when moulded, put it into a bowl, and cover with a cloth until it is nearly cold. Dredge a httlo flour on the pastry-board, put the pastry upon it, and roll it with the hands into the shape of a sugar-loaf or cone, with the diameter of tho lower part rather less than the size requiicd for tho pic. Place the cone upright, and flatten tho top until it is half tho height Press it down with the knuckles of the riglit hand, at tho same time forming tho walls of tho pie with the left. When tlio Bides are smooth, and of equal thickness, fill the pie, roll out tho cover, lay it on, and make a hole in the centre. Fasten the edges securely with a little egg, ornament tho pio according to fancy, glaze it by brushing it over with tlie beaten yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick oven. An easier way of shaping a raised pie is to roll out the pastry to the required thick- ness, and then cut out a piece for the top and bottom, and a long strip for the sides. Tliese pieces must be fastened with egg, and tlie edges pressed over one another, so as to be securely fastened. The pie may then be finisliod according to the directions given above. When the crust is intended to be eaten, the pastry may be made according to tho directions given for Pate Brisee {see Crust, Pate Brisee), or as follows:—Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour. Sprinkle over it a small tea-spoonful of salt. Put another quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, with the third of a pint of milk. Stir it over a gentle fire until the butter is dissolved, then pour the liquid over the flour, and stir it to a smooth stiff paste. Dredge some flour over it; give it two or three turns, and mould it into the proper shape before it has had time to cool. Time to bake raised pies, from two to five hours, according to size. Paste, French, for Meat Pies, Hot or Cold.—Put a pound of flour into a bowl, and rub lightly into it half a poimd of fresh butter. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and make the mixture up into a smooth stiff paste, by stirring into it two fresh eggs which have been beaten up with rather less than a quarter of a pint of water. Roll the pastry out, give it two or three turns, and bake as soon as possible. Time, ten minutes to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Paste, PufT or Feuilletage.—This paste, though decidedly superior to every other kind in appearance and taste, is rather indigestible for delicate persons. Good sweet salt butter,. which has been well washed in cold water, squeezed with the hands to free it from the salt, and afterwards wrung in a cloth to take away all the moisture, is the best material which can be used for it. The consistency of the butter is of considerable importance. If it is too hard, it will not easily mix with the flour, but if it is too soft, the paste will be entirely spoilt, in consequence of the butter breaking through the edges whilst it is being rolled. As tho difficulty experienced is generally to get the butter sufficiently cool, many cooks place it upon ice before using it for the pastry. In hot weather, the paste should be placed on the floor for a few minutes, to keep it cool between each turn. If very flaky pastry is required, the paste may bo brushed lightly over each time it is rolled with white of egg. In mak-ing puff pa.sle pro- ceed as follows:—Dry thoroughly and sift one poimd of best flour. Put it on a marble