^ cassell's cookehV. which IS called, as we said, brown thickening, or brown roux, will, when mixed with halt a pmt or a httlo more of good stock, transform it into good rich brown gravy which only requii-es a few additions, varying with what the gravy is iiitended tor, to complete it. If the gi-avy is intended for roast fowls, for instance, a little mushroom ketchup may be added; if for game, such a« a phea^t, a dessert, spoonful of sherry. The effect of brown thickening ia gravy is that not only is the gi-avy thickened and the raw flavour inseparable from butter and flour avoided but that the important element—colour—is introduced or assisted. You may us^ naif a dozen poimds of meat in making gravy, but if it comes up pale and thin It will be thought poor. The better the cooks the better do tliey understand the importance of appearances. Good thick mock-turtle soup owes its rich colour to this thickening, and it is because brown thickening is so rarely made, or the use of it so little understood in private houses, that home-made thick 'mock-tui-tle is so invariably poor, although the amount of real calves' head—and not pig's head—used in its preparation is probably double that used in an ordinary pastry- cook's. One great advantage of having brown thickening is, that it is possible to make enough at once to last a couple of months. Gravy is constantly being wanted; and in the end the cook will find time saved by having the thickening at hand ready made, instead of the plate, the dab of butter, the mixing, the uncertainty as to quantity, &c., which is their usual wont in melting a little butter and flour fresh for each occasion, the reason they melt it together being very proj^erly to avoid the constant stirring necessary to prevent the gravy or soup thickened turning lumpy. As, however, we are on the subject of thickening, by means of brown roux, soups, such as mock-turtle, gravies, &c., it may occur to some to inquire—How wotdd you thicken white soup, such as Palestine soup, oyster soup, &c. ; or. How would you thicken cheap Bechamel sauce where no cream is used 1 Our answer is—By using white roujx instead of brown. But then white roux or white thickening is not necessarily butter and flour just melted together, which, as we have said, has a tendency to give whatever is thickened a raw and ginielly flavour. The cook will have observed in making the brown thickening what a long time it took before it began to turn colour—in fact, her patience the first time was probably nearly exhausted, and she woxild very likely confess afterwards, flushed with triumph, that she began to think the " stuff" would never turn colour at all. White roux is simply, to use an Irish expression, brown thickening just before it gets brown; or, in other words, the grains of raw flour are cooked, but not coloured. The difference in flavour is as distinct as that of white pastry and dough. Now, it is evident that brown thickening is of no use when the substance thickened is required to be clear or bright. Brown gravy or thick mock-tm-tle soup are what may be called muddy, i.e., they don't pretend to be bright. There are, however, sauces, and even gravies, that should be thick, and at the same time bright and clear. Here, then, it is appai-ent that we must have some other thickening altogether. We will take as a si)ecimen that exceedingly nice-looking, and at the same time nice-tasting, sauce, called sauce Bordelaise, made from clai-et; and as of course any ordinary sound claret will do for the pui-pose, in the present day of cheap French wine the sauce is by no means so dear as it would have been a few years ago. To make Bordelaise sauce, you must first have some very good stock, perfectly bright and absolutely free from fat. Take say half a pint of such stock, and boil it down in a small saucepan, in which has been plaxied one bead of garlic,