( i65 ) am GIN half a pound of butter, and a quarter of a pound of the best treacle. Stir these into the flour, &c., jBavour with three di-ops of essence of lemon, or more, if liked, and make the mixture into a smooth, tirm paste, with three eggs, well beaten. Roll out o a floured board, and cut the paste into fingers. Bake in a good oven for ten minutes. Store in a closely-covered tin box. Probable cost, 'is. for this quantity. Gingerbread, Lemon.—Kub the rinds of two largo, or thi-ee small lemons, upon two or three large lumps of sugar, till all the yellow part is taken oft". Beat the sugar to a powder, mix it vfiih a pound of flour, and add half an oxmce of ground ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper. Put half a pound of butter into a jar near the fii'e, with half a pound of treacle. When the butter is melted, stir into it the strained juice of the lemon, mixed with a glass of brandy. Mix all with the flour, &c., and bake ia roimd cakes, or fin- gers, on buttered tins, in a moderate oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. for this quantity. Gingerbread Loaf (good).—Put six oimces of butter into a jar near the fire, with one pound of the best treacle. Let the butter melt, then add two ounces of candied lemon, cut into narrow strij)s, half an ounce of powdered ginger, half an ounce of caraway-seeds, five eggs, well beaten, and as much flour as will make a stift" batter. Beat it well for some minutes, till it is quite smooth and light, put it iuto a well- buttered tin, about two inches deep, and bake in a slow oven three-quarters of an hour. When baked, let the loaf remain a little while in the tin before turning out. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Gingerbread Loaf (another way).—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into two pounds of flour; add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of baking-powder, and one ounce of ground ginger. Stir in two pounds of warmed treacle. Bake immediately, in a buttered tin, in a slow oven, for one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for a nine-inch tin. Gingerbread Loaf, Plain.—Put two pounds of treacle into a jar near the fire, with two ounces of butter, a quarter of an ounce of car- bonate of soda, previously dissolved in a very little milk, and strained, and four ounces of moist sugar. Mix an oimce of powdered ginger, and one small nutmeg grated, with about three pounds of flour. When the butter is melted, stir the treacle into the flour, add water to moisten it, and bake in a well-buttered, shallow tin, in a slow oven, for one hour and a half. Probable ^ost. Is. 2d. Gingerbread, Mrs. Fletcher's. (An Edinburgh recipe.)—Mix half a pound of moist sugar, and two oimces of powdered ginger, with one pound of fine flour. Put half a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound of treacle, into a jar near the fire. When the butter is melted, mix it with the flour while warm, and spread the mixture thinly on buttered tins. Mark it in squares before baking, and as soon as the ginger- broad is baked enough, separate it at the marks hf'fore it has time to hanlcn. Time, ten or fift^-ea minutes to bake. Probable cost. la. 2d. i Gingerbread, Mrs. Smith's.—Melt together thi-ee-quarters of a pound of treacle, a quai-ter of a poimd of honey, and half a pouiid of fresh butter. Mix one pound of flour with two ounces of candied lemon, chopped small, one ounce of powdered ginger, and half a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Beat all well together, and bake in well-buttered, shallow tins, in a moderate oven. Time, about one hour to bake. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Gingerbread Nuts. —It is well to make the paste for these nuts an hour or two before baking them, and put it in a cool place. Rub three ounces of butter into one pound of flour; add the finely-chopped rind and juice of half a lemon, and a dessert- spooiiful of ground ginger. Put a table-spoon- ful of honey into a quarter of a pound of treacle. Let them melt over the fire for a few minutes, stirring them well together, then mix them into the other ingredients. Roll the paste on a floured board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it into small round cakes, and bake on tins in a good oven till crisp. Probable cost, 6d. Gingerbread, Orange. — Chop half a pound of candied orange peel very finely, and mix it with one ounce of ground ginger, one nutmeg, grated, three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, and two pounds and a quarter of flour. Melt three-quarters of a pound of butter in a poimd and three-quarters of treacle; stir this well into the rest, and let all stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Roll the paste out on a floured board to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, cut it into fingers, and bake on a buttered tin, leaving a Httlo distance between each finger. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little milk, and brush the gingen'bread over with it both before and after putting it into the oven. Time to bake, fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. for this quantity. Gingerbread Parkin (to be made foi the 5th of November).—Rub half a pound of butter and half a pound of fresh lard into four pounds of oatmeal, or flour and oatmeal mixed. Add half a pound of bro'wn sugar and an ounce of ground ginger. Mix thi-ee pounds and a half of treacle with a cupful of new milk ; stir these into the oatmeal &c., to make a stiff paste, bake in a moderate oven, either in oiled tins or dripping-tins till brightly browned, about twenty minutes if baked in patty-pans, and one hour and a half in large dishes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Gingerbread, Powder for Making.— Pound thoroughly in a mortar two oimces oi coriander-seed, two ounces of caraway-seed, two ounces of ground ginger, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of cloves, three- quarters of an ounce of fennel-seed, and three- • quarters of an ounce of aniseed. Keep the powder in a bottle, closely corked. To make gingerbread, dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water, and make up into a naste with a quartern of flour and an ounce of the powder. The gingerbread may bo baked either in a mould or in small tins. Time to prepare, Iihit nn hour.