GAT ( 245 ) gAt lemon, orange, and ciia-on together, cut mto thin sUces, and a pinch of salt. Let these mmmer gently for live or six minutes, Stirling aU the time, then pour the imxture into a bowl, and, when cool, add as much finely-sifted tlour as will make it into a solid batter. Bake in a slow oven on buttered tins, in small rounds, placed at a little distance from each other. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Gateau de Nanterre. — Gateau de Nanterre is nearly the same thing as Gateau de Compiegne. The only difference is that the former is sweetened, and made with currants; the latter is not sweetened, and both currants and raisins are used in its preparation. Gateau de Plomb.—Take three pounds of dried sifted flour and rub into it two pounds of butter. Make it into a paste with six eggs, adding gradually three gills of double cream and also a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Work the paste for a minute between the hands, and leave it for an hour. Make it into a roll about two and a half inches in thick- ness, score it with a knife, and tie it in three or four strips of buttered paper, to prevent its getting 'out of form. Bake the roll in a hot oven, and when it is done enough, put it be- tween two dishes, with a weight upon the top, and let it remain until it is cold. If preferred, the paste may be made into small cakes, instead pf a large roll. "When properly made, baked, and pressed this cake should be close and heavy. Gateau de Pommes. — Take half a pound of loaf sugar, put it into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and let it boil to a thick syrup. Put with it one pound of nicely- flavoured apples, weighed after they are pared and cored, and the thinly-sliced rind and juice of a small lemon. Stir the contents of the saucepan constantly, and boil until they are stiflt. A tea-spoonful of isinglass may be added, if liked. Press the gateau into a damp mould, and when it is stiflE, turn it out, and serve with custard round it. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for a small mould. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the custard. Gateau de Riz (French Kice Pudding).— Put four oimces of rice into a saucepan, with a quart of new milk, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the rind of half a lemon. Simmer gently until the rice is tender and the milk absorbed. Let it cool, then mix with it the well-beaten yolks of six large eggs. Pour a little clarified butter into a copper cake-mould, and turn it round on an incline until the butter has coated every part of it and is firm. Sprinkle some finely-grated bread-crumbs in the mould, and shake it well, so that they may cover the surface evenly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with the rice, then put it very gently into the mould, so as not to displace the crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. The pudding should turn out firm and brown, looking like a cake. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Gateau de Semoule (French Semolina i'udding).—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of a lemon, and let it stand by the side of the fire until the flavour is thoroughly extracted; then take out the rind, and let the milk boil. Throw in five ounces of semolina, a lump of butter the size of a large egg, a tiny pinch of salt, and four table- spoonfuls of sugar. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time, and add gradually the yolks of six eggs well beaten. Prepare a mould as for Gateau de Riz. Just before putting the semolina into the mould, add the whites of four eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Bake in a moderate oven. Both this gateau and the Gateau de Riz may be agreeably varied by flavouring the milk with vamlla, cocoa-nut, or almonds, instead of lemon. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Gateau, Napolitaine.—Cutalargeround ■spongecake into slices nearly an inch thick. Spread a little good jam on each slice, and re- place it in its original position, allowing it to soak in a little noyeau or maraschino before another slice is placed upon it. The topmost piece of cake should have jam on the under side. Sweeten a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and flavour it according to taste. Pour this round the cake, which should be orna- mented with sugar-icing, coloured with cochi- neal. Time, one hour to prepare. Probable cost, exclusive of the noyeau or maraschino, 2S. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Gateau of Hare.—Take the remains of cold hare. Scrape all the meat from the skin and sinews, and pound it in a mortar, with the liver of the hare, a piece of calf's liver (pre- viously boiled), a slice of lean ham, and a small piece of butter. When well pounded, mix with it half its bulk in crumb of bread, which has been soaked in a little cold stock or hare soup, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Add well- beaten eggs till the mixture is of the consist- ence of a firm batter, pour it into a weU-buttered mould, place two or three slices of fat bacon on the top, tie the whole in a floured cloth, and boil gently for an hour or more, being careful that the water is not sufficiently high in the saucepan to enter the mould. Turn out the gateau, and pom- a sauce round it made of good hare stock, highly-seasoned and flavoured with port wine and red currant jelly. The gateau may be baked if preferred. Probable cost, &c., according to the size. Gateau of Mixed Fruits. — Put one pound of codlings, pared and cored, into a saucepan, with a little water to prevent bui-ning. Boil until the apples are reduced to pulp, then add their weight in sugar, and boU for a few minutes longer. Pour in half a pint of red currant juice, and half a pint of raspberry, or any other fruit juice that may be liked and at hand. A little isinglass or gelatine may bo added, to assist in stiffening. Pour the gateau into a damped mould, and serve in a glass dish with custard. Time, nearly one hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint mould. Gateau of Mixed Fruits (another way). —Take a cupful of two or three different kinds of unsweetened fruit juice. Put them '"nto a suucc-