C 225 ) FOW the gravy is extracted. Probable coat, 4s. 6d. Time to boil, four or five hours. Fowl, Potted. —Cut the meat off the bones of a cold roust fowl. Pound it in a mortar, with butter in the proportion of four ounces to every pound of meat. The skin and gristle should be carefully removed before the meat is weighed, and the butter should be of the best kind. Add, while pounding, six or seven grates of nutmeg, a small pinch of pounded mace, with salt and cayenne. A mixture of ham will be found very relishing ; it should be first grated, and then pounded with the fowl to a smooth paste. Fill small pots, and cover with clarified butter. Keep in a dry place, and tie down with bladder. Fowl (Poulet aux Cressons). — Place a layer of fresh watercresses on a dish; let them be quite free from moisture; arrange evenly, and sprinkle salt lightly over them. If vine- gar be approved, pour a small quantity over the cresses. A roast fowl may now be laid upon them. It should be of a good brown colour, with a frothed appearance. Serve with gravy, and in a tureen. Time, from half to one hour, according to size. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Fowl, Pulled.—Divide a cold fowl into joints, strip off the skin, and pull the meat from the solid white parts in large pieces. Broil the legs and back of the fowl, seasoning them with salt and a good quantity of black pepper, dip- ping each piece into butter before putting it on the gridii'on. Warm the pulled white meat in some white sauce, let it be thick and well flavoured with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. When suffi- ciently heated, put the pulled meat on a dish, and the back and legs of the fowl upon it. Send to table with sliced lemon and sippets. Time, five minutes to broU; fifteen minutes to heat. Sufficient for a dish. Fowl, Ragout of.—Boil down the inferior parts, bones, &c., of a couple of roast fowls, and cut the joints into neat pieces.as for a fricassee. Stew with the trimmings an onion quartered, a couple of shallots, one blade of mace, some lean bits of ham, and a bunch of herbs. Cover with stock or water, and boil very gently till all the nourishment is extracted. The bones should be crushed before beginning to boil. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan and let it melt; add flour sufficient to absorb the butter, strain the liquor from the bones into it, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Place the pieces of fowl nicely in the gravy, pour in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and about a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sugar. Let it get hot, but it should not boil. Serve with the gravy poured over, and a garnish of croutons. Time, one hour to stew trimmings, half an hour to stew fowl. Pro- bable cost, 9d., exclusive of fowl. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Fowl, Rissoles of.—Take half a pound of the remains of a cold fowl, without skin or bone, and grate an ounce or two of tongue or ham, then chop all together until the meat ia I quite smooth. BoU down the bones and trim- mings with water to cover, a bit of lemon-peel, a piece of a laurel-loaf, and a bit of garlic the size of a peppercorn. Boil until the liquid is reduced to about a quarter of a pint, which should bo strained and used, at least as much as may be required of it, to moisten the meat. Mix with the chopped fowl a couple of tea- spoonfuls of browned flour, and season it with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and some of the gravy. When wanted to make into balls (it should first be allowed to stand two or three hours to get firm), have ready beaten egg and finely- grated bread-crumbs; roll the balls a second time into the egg and crumbs that they may be thickly coated, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. Turn them about to get done on aU sides' alike of a light brown. Serve with a bouquet of fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and the rissoles roimd it. Time, eight minutes to fry. Sufficient for six balls. Fowl, Roast.—Truss the fowl with the giblets under the wings. Singe it. WhUe roasting, baste often with butter, and sprinkle with flour some minutes before serving to make it look frothy. If Uked stuffed, use a veal stuffing, or a ham forcemeat if the fowl be very large. Serve with plenty of rich light-brown gravy, and bread or oyster sauce. Time, three- quarters to one hour. Probable cost, 3s. to 48. Sufficient for four or five persons. Fowl, Roast, To Carve.—Insert the knife between the leg and the body, and cut to the bone; then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if the bird is not old, the joint will give IvOAST FOWL, TO CARVE. way. The wing is next to be broken off, and this is done in the direction of a to B, only dividing the joint with the knife. The four quarters having been remoA'ed in this way, take oft' the meiry-thought and the neckbones; these last are to be removed by putting the knife in at c and pressing it, when they will I break off from the part that sticks to the breast. Next separate the breast from the body of the fowl, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to the tail. Turn the fowl now back upwards; put the knife into the bone midway between the neck and the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and take off very neatly the two sidesmen, which com- pletes the operation. The breast and wings are considered the best parts of a roast fowl, but in young birds the legs are the most juicy. In the case of a capon or large fowl, slices may be cut off the breast, just as is done when carving a pheasant {see Pheasant, To Carve). A boiled fowl is carved much in the same way as a roast fowl.