APP ( 18 ) APP Apple Pie.—Make a good light cnist; wet the edge of the pie-dish, and lay a thin strip all round. Tare, core, and slice the apples, and lay them in tho dish with a little sugar and any llavouring that may be preferred—such as powdoro(l ginger, two or tlu-eo cloves, grated lemon-rind, with the j uico of tho lemon, a little cinnamon, &c. Lay a crust over the top, and ornament with pastry cut into loaves. If tho apples are dry, tho parings and cores may bo boiled with a little siigar and flavouring, and the strained j nice added to the fruit. Bake the pie in a quick oven. It may bo served hot or cold. A little custard or croam is an improvement. Time, three-quarters of an horn* to bake. Pro- bable cost, lOd. for a pic, sufficient for five persons. Apple Plum Pudding.—Shred finely six ounces of beef suet; add to it a pinch of salt, half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants, half a pound of chopped apples, two table-spoonfuls of dried flour, two ounces of chopped candied peel, and half a tea-spoonful of mixed spice. IMix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then beat four eggs in a wine-glassful of brandy, stir well together, pour into a well-oiled mould, or tie up in a weU-floiired pudding-cloth, and boil four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. Time to boil, four hours. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d., without the brandy. Apple Pudding, Baked. — Pare, quarter, and core three pounds of good baking apples: put them in a saucepan with six ounces of sugar and half a cupful of water, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Boil them gently until they are quite soft. Turn them out of the saucepan, and put them aside to cool. Butter the inside of a shallow pie-dish, and line it throughout with good ordinary pie- crust. Add to the apple pulp two or three well-beaten eggs, and put the mixture into the dish. Make the top smooth, and grate a little nutmeg over it. Bake in a quick oven. This pudding may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked. — Line a baking-dish with puif paste, and cover the bottom with sliced pippins, which should be peeled and cored. Mix together the crumb of a French roll and a pint of thick cream; add eight eggs well beaten, three or four ounces of sugar, nutmeg, and the same weight of candied peel (orange) cut into small pieces. Spread this mixture over the pippins and bake. Serve with sifted sugar over tho top. Bake in a moderate oven. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake. Probable cost, Ss. 6d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Pare, core, and chop small a dozen good cooking apples. Oil a pudding-dish, and cover the bottom and sides half an inch thick with grated bread, small pieces of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice and a little lemon-rind; then put a layer of apples, sweetened, and repeat in altemato layers imtil the dish is full. Tlie top Ifiyer nniet be of bread. I'oui' over tho whole a cupful of cold water. Bake in a good oven. It may be u«ed the day after it is nuuie, when it m\iBt bo heated thoroughly. Tnne to bake, according to the quality of the apples. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Fill tho dish as in the ])receding recipe, but instead of pouring a cupful of cold water over all, pour threo or four eggs beaten with a littio new milk. Bake in a quick oven. Sift sugar over tho top, and servo with sweet sauce. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked (another way). —Put a dozen apples into a sauceijan with, enough water to keep them from burning, a piece of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and sugar according to taste. Let them simmer gently untU they faU, then beat them weU. Place them in the middle of a pie-dish, and poui- round and over them a good thick arrowroot custard. Put into a quick oven, and bake uutU. brown. Time to brown, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Apple Pudding, Baked, Eich.—Line a pie-dish with good short crust. Stew four pounds of apples, and when hot, add a quarter of a pound of butter. Let them stand aside to cool, then add a cupful of cream, four well- beaten eggs, sugar to taste, grated lemon-rind, and grated nutmeg. Stir all well together, then place the mixture in the pie-dish, and bake in a good oven. Serve -with Devonshire cream, or custard. Time, half an horn to bake. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost, 3s. Apple Pudding, Boiled.—Make a hght batter \sith two eggs, four heaped table-spoon- fuls of flour, a little salt, and a large breakfast- cupful of milk. Beat it well, then stir into it a few apples pared, cored, and shced. Put all together into a weU-oiled mould, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six persons. Apple Pudding. Nottingham.—Pare half a dozen good baidng apples, remove the cores without dividing the fruit, and in their places put two or three cloves and a httle sugar. Place these in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a light batter, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Apple Puddings (Alexandra's).— Pare, core, and quarter half a dozen finely- flavoured apples. Place them in a saucepan with a table-spoonful of water, the thin rind of half a lemon chopped small, and two table- spoonfuls of sugar. Simmer gently until reduced to a pulp; then ptir in, whib? hot, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when cold add two eggs well beaten, a breakfast- cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, half a