( 453 ) NEA NAS Strain the sauce, adding another dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice; make it as hot as possible without letting it boil, then draw it from the fire, and stir in a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Serve at once. Time, three-quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Nasturtium.—This elegant plant some- times goes under the name of Indian cress. It thrives satisfactorily in this country, but is a native of Peru. The young leaves and flowers of the nasturtium are frequently employed in salads. Its seeds, when pickled, make a good substitute for capers [see Nastur- tium Seeds), and its fine yeUow flowers are used to garnish dishes. There are two species of nasturtium, the small and the large; the latter is the hardier, and is that usually culti- vated. Nasturtium Pickle. — The buds and Geeds of the nasturtium are both used for pickle. The former are the more delicate, the latter the more highly flavoured. The buds should be gathered before the petals protrude beyond the calyx, the seeds while they are quite young and as soft as green peas. All that is necessary is to gather them on a dry day, put them at once into a jar, cover them "Nvell with cold vinegar, and when the harvest is over cork them down tightly. A little seasoning may either be put into the vinegar or not. It may consist of two ounces of salt and a dozen peppercorns to each quart of -vinegar. At the end of a few months this pickle will be found to be very nicely flavoured. Time, to be kept twelve months before being used. Probable cost, uncertain, nasturtium buds and seeds being seldom sold. Nasturtium Seed Sauce (for Boiled llutton, &c.).—Take two table-spoonfuls of nasturtium seedfi, preserved as in the last recipe, cut them into small pieces, and put them aside im.til wanted. Dissolve one ounce of fresh butter in a stewpan, dredge three- quarters of an ounce of flour slowly into it, and make it quite smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Add half a pint of boiling gravy, and beat it imtil qviite free from lumps. Season with a dessert-spoonful of nasturtium vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, and a little salt if required. Put in the bruised nastur- tium seeds, boil iip once more, and serve. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Nasturtium Seeds (a. substitute for Capers).—The seeds of the nasturtium plant are excellent as a substitute for capers to be served with boiled mutton. Gather them while they are still young and green, wash them well in cold water, put a little salt with them, and let them soak imtil next day. Dry them well with a soft cloth, put them into glass bottles, and cover them entirely with cold vinegar. Two ounces of salt, a dozen pep- percorns, a small piece of horse-radish, four or five loaves of tarragon, and two cloves may be put with each quart of vinegar. Cork the bottles securely, and store them in a cool dry place. The nasturtium seeds will not be ready for use until the next summer. Probable cost, uncertain, nasturtium seeds being seldom oft'ered for sale. Nasturtium Vinegar ''for Flavouring Sauces, &c.).—Gather nastm-tium flowers which are fully blown, put them into large glass bottles, and shake them well together. FiU the bottle with cold vinegar, and put a finely- minced shallot and the third of a clove of garlic with each quart. Let the vinegar re- main for two months. At the end of that time strain it through a tamis, and add half au ounce of cayenne and half an ounce of salt. Put the vinegar into small bottles, and cork securely. Probable cost, 8d. per quart. Nautese Salad.—Peel half a dozen small Spanish onions. Take out the core, put a little butter inside each, and bake them in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with butter until they are quite tender. Let them get cold, then cut them into slices, and lay them at the bottom of a salad bowl. Scrape half a dozen sardines, preserved ia oil or butter, or, if preferred, soak a Yarmouth bloater for three or four minutes in boiling water. Kemove the skin, take the flesh from the bonea, and lay the fish in convenient-sized pieces upon the onion. Slice half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, place these on the fish, and strew over the whole two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley and a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon or chervil. Serve with salad dressing. Time, one hour to bake the onions. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Neapolitan Cake.—Blanch and pound to a smooth paste six ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds, and whilst pounding them keep dropping in a little orange-flower water or rose-water to prevent them oiling. Add a pinch of salt, the grated rind of a large lemon, four ounces of fresh butter, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and ten ounces of flour. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work them together with the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and leave them in a cool place for half an hour. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it out in rounds about the size of an ordinary cup-plate, lay these upon a floured tin, and bake in a good oven. When they are firm and lightly coloured take them out, trim the edges, and when quite cold lay them one upon another, and spread a thick layer of differently coloured jam on the top of each round; and as each piece is put on press it lightly with the hand, so that the jam shall make the rounds adhere together, and so form one cake. Before serving sift a little pink sugar over the top, or garnish as fancy dictates. Time to bake the rounds, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Neapolitan Custard Pudding.—Cut two sponge-cakes into slices, and spread a little jam over each slice. Place them in a buttered pie-dish, sprinkle over them six or seven powdered ratafias, and poui- over vne whole a custard made as follows :—Sweeten half a pint of nulk with three lumps of sugai- which ha-«©