DAN ( 182) Dam Jjlivcing thorn in a cool ovon at night, or set- ting thoni in a jar in hot water), boil them both togother for half an hour, then add three-quar- ters of a pound of good pounded sugar, and after tho sugar has dissolved boil for another ten minutes. If the apples are good, and tho recipe carefully attended to, small moulds of this solid fruit will help to fill up successfully many vacancies on a supper-table. Damson Tart.—Line the edges of a tart- dish with a crust, pulf or short, according to liking, and pile the dish high with damsons, laying a small cup in the bottom to prevent tho juice running over; one pint and a half of diimsons will requii-e a quarter of a pound of fine moist sugar, and it should be equally placed amongst the fruit in the dish. If a short crust be made, send the dish to table with sifted sugar over tho top, but if puff pastry is used, brush it over with cold water and sprinkle white sugar upon it before putting it in the oven. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Damson Wine.—Get sound ripe fruit, reject all that is stale and mouldy; pick off the stalks, and to four gallons of damsons add four gallons of boiling water. Let them soak four or five days, stirring them regu- larly every day with the hand. Add to every gallon of liquor three and a half pounds of good lump sugar, and when this is quite dis- solved, put the whole into a cask with one quart of spirits to every three gallons. Put it into a cask and let it remain twelve months, when it may be bottled for use. Damsons Baked for Keeping.—Fill some large stone jars with not over-ripo damsons —none of them must be crushed—and add to them half their weight in pounded sugar. Put the fruit and sugar in layers into the jars. Let the oven get cool, and place the jars, well covered over the top with small flat slate stones, into it. When they have baked from five to six hours they will be done, and should be re- moved at once to get cold. The top should be first covered with a round of white paper, then melted mutton suet to about one inch in thick- ness, and lastly, a piece of brown paper or bladder so secured as to exclude the air. If kept in a dry, well-ventilated room, damsons so pre- pared will keep good for three months. Damsons, Bottled.—Bullaces or damsons are valuable for winter use, and, bottled like green gooseberries, make good tarts. Put them into wide-necked glass bottles, tie the tops over with bladder, and set them in a boiler of cold water,with a little straw at the bottom. Bring the water to the boU, and then remove the boiler from the fire, but let the bottles remain to become cold. In a few hours, or better, the next day, remove the bladder, and replace it by tight-fitting corks, first filling the bottles with pounded sugar. The corks should be secured with wax. Damsons, Compote of.—Make a pint of syrup in the following manner:—Take eight ounces of loaf sugar and one pint of water; let it simmer on tho fire until the sugar has melted, thoa throw in the wliite of an egg, and take ofE the scum as it rises. When the syrup haa boiled fifteen minutes, drop into it, one by one, a quart of soimd damsons, and simmer until soft', comp6ts of damsons. without breaking them. Remove them from the syrup, and boil it again until rather thick, let it cool, and pour it over the damsons which should have been previously arranged in a glass dish. A glass of whipped cream is a nice accompaniment to this dish. Time to boil, syrup, fifteen minutes; damsons, about five minutes. Probable cost, without cream. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Damsons, Compote of (another way). This compote will require less sugar, because the fruit is of a less acid nature than some of the other varieties of plums. Allow four ounces of sugar to half a pint of water, boil the usual time, and simmer the fruit in the syrup ten or twelve minutes. The quantity of syrup is for one pound of damsons. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to stew the damsons. Damsons, Preserved. — Gather the damsons while the sun is on them, and when there has been no rain for twenty-foiu" hours at least. They should be quite ripe, whole, and without blemish. To each jar, containing one quart of fruit, allow half a pound of good loaf sugar, and sprinkle it equally in the jar among the fruit, then set it in a vessel of cold water over a moderate fire and simmer, after it has come to a boil, fifty .minutes, when the damsons will be soft, and must be allowed to get cold. Lose no time in completing the preserve. Untie the covers, and pour the juice into a pre- serving-pan, where it may boil fifteen minutes, and must then be strained over the fruit. Fasten down when cool, and store in a dry cool place. Damsons, Preserved (another way).— Prick the fruit, and place it in scalding water for about a minute, lift the fruit into a dry dish, and strew powdered sugar over it. Next day pour off the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it again over the fruit, and allow it to stand for a day or two. Boil the syrup once more, add it again to the fruit, and boil both together for a short time, taking care not to break the damsons. "SVhen ready, pour into jars, and when cold, add brandied papers, and close carefuUy. Half a pound of sugar is sufficient for each pound of friiit. Dandelion, Stewed.—The first mention of this dish would perhaps inspire most English people with aversion, but we can honestly ad- vise them to try it. It is an inexpensive dish, and easily ohtmned; for fresh growths after