CEL CEL ( 114 ) being the Engliahumn'B favourite accompani- ment to broad and choose. There are tJoVerul ways in whicli it may bo nicely prepared, and when cooked it ia nioro digestible and equally palatiible. When tho roota are not to ho had, the pounded aoed is an excellent subatituto foi' Havouring. It is in aeason from October to February, and is bettor when it has been touched by tho frost. Celery, Boiled.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling- water, witli a little salt in it. Wash tho celery carefully. Cut off the outer leaves, make the stalks even, and lay them in small hunches. Throw those into the water, and lot them boil gently until tender, leaving the saucepan uncovered. When done, drain, and place them on a piece of toast which has boon (lipped in the liqmd. Pom- over them a little good melted butter, and serve. Time : young celery, three-quarters of an hour; old, ono hour and a half. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient, one head for two persons. Celery, Essence of.—Put an ounce of pounded celery seed into a bottle, and pour over it half a pint of spirits of wine, white wine, or brandy. Let this infuse for three weeks, then strain and hottle for use. When wanted, put a few drops upon a lump of sugar, and throw it into the pan, and the flavour will immediately diffuse itself throughout. This is a pleasant addition to salads. Four or five drops on a small lump of sugar will be sufficient for a pint. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the spirit. Celery for Flavouring.—The outside dark leaves of celery should nevfer be thrown away, as they may always he used for flavour- ing soups, sauces, and gravies. If a tea-spoon- ful of celery seed be bruised and tied in a little piece of muslin, then thrown into the stock pot, it will impart as much flavour as two heads of fresh celery. Celery seed for flavouring is sold in penny packets. Sufficient, one penny packet for two quarts. Celery Garnishing.—Cut the tops off two heads of celery, leaving each head about eight inches long. Point the roots, and put them in boiling water for eight or ten minutes. Tie them together, and put them in a saucepan; cover them with good stock, and add a table- spoonful of pot fat, one carrot, one onion, stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and a hay-leaf. Close the saucepan, and let the con- tents simmer gently for an hour and a haK, then drain the celery and arrange it round a diah of boiled fowls, &c. Prohable cost, 2d. or 4d. per head. This quantity will be sufficient for a small dish of fowls. Celery, Puree of.—Wash thoroughly four heads of fresh white celery, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with an onion sliced, and a quarter of a pound of hutter. Let them simmer very gently till tender, then add a quarter of a pound of flour mixed smoothly with a pint of milk. Let this boil up, then pass tho whole through a fine sieve, season with salt, popper, and a little piece of sugar, and add some butter and very thick cream to the pur6e. Servo in tho middle of a dish, with cutlets, &c., round. Time for young celery, threo-quarterfl of an hour; if old, one hour and a Juilt. Probable coat, 2d. to 4d. per head. Celery Salad.—Cut blanched celery very KinuU. Bo careful that it is perfectly diy, and do not prepare it until two or three minutes be- tore it ia to ho used. Pour over it a Sliiyon- naise sauce {see Mayonuiiise) and gamisli with green celery leaves. Time, a few minutes, i rohablo cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient ono liead for two persons. * Celery Sauce.—Cut the white part of two heads of celery into pieces about ono inch and a half long. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, and when it is molted, throw in the celery, cover closely, and stew gently till it IS quite tender. Mix in very smootlllv a largo table-spoonful of flour, and when it "has browned a little, add a breakfast-cupful of good gra,vy, salt, and a little nutmeg. Pub through a sieve, make hot, and serve. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for one small fowl. Celery Sauce (a quick way).—If celery sauce is wanted in a hurry, some good melted butter may he flavoured with a few drops of the essence of celery, and a little cream or new milk, and a pinch of powdered mace, may be added. Time, ten minutes. Sufficient, five drops on a piece of sugar to a pint. Probable cost, 6d. per half pint. Celery Sauce, for Turkeys, Fowls, &C.—Slice the best part of four heads of young celery in small pieces, and boil them in salt and water for twenty minutes. Drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan, with suffi- cient veal broth or gravy to cover them, add a tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of mace, and stew aU gently together until quite tender. Add two ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when this is quite smooth, stir in a cupful of good cream. Time, one hour. Pro- bable cost, 2d. to 4d. per head. Sufficient for a couple of small fowls. If this sauce should be wanted richer, the yolks of two or three eggs may he added, but celery sauce is fre- quently spoilt by too much seasoning. Celery Soup.—Cut the white part of four heads of celery into pieces about an inch long, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of good white stock, two oimces of hutter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a lump of sugar. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, put in with them three pints more of stock, a little salt, and a hlado of mace. Stew gently for an hour, then press the soup through a coarse sieve. Make it hot again, pour it into a tureen, add a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediately with toasted sippets. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a little flour. Probable cost, lOd. per pint if cream be used. Sufficient for eight persons. Celery, Stewed. — Wash four heads of celery very clean, trim them neatly, cutting off the leaves and tops; cut tlicm into three-inch lengths, and tie them in small bundles, and par- boil thorn in sufficient salt and water to cover them. Drain and stew them, irntU tender, in some stock. Brown two ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, dilute it with the stock in which the celery was boiled,