EGG EGO Cr96 ) Ekk Flip should bo made with white ale if it can bo procured. Make one pint of ale warm, but not too hot. Beat two or tliree eggs, with three ounces of sugar, together, thi-ow the eggs into the jug containing the ale, and then throw both back into the empty jug. This must be done quickly five or sLx times, until aU is well nuxed together; then grate gmger aiid nutmeg over the top, and the flip is quite ready. Serve in glasses while hot. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Egg Mince Pies-—Make some mince- taeat, following a good recipe. Before making up the pies, mi.x the beaten yolks of three eggs with three dessert-spoonfuls of sugar, three of lemon-juice, and three of brandy. Before covering the pies throw a dessert-spoonful of the mixture over the mince, then bake in the usual way. This addition will enrich the pies. Egg Pie.—Take one pound of good beef Buet, shred it fine, one pound of currants well washed and picked, twelve hard-boiled eggs, a little cinnamon or nutmeg, and a Little cream. Beat all together, put the mixture into a pie- dish and bake with an edging of puff paste for thiee-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, about 28. 6d. Egg-powder Cake.—Egg-powder, as it is called, is a vegetable compound, intended to serve as a substitute for eggs, to four of which one penny packet professes to be equivalent in cake-making, and sufficient to add to two pounds of flour. Some cooks, however, think it best to use it in addition to eggs. The powder is first jnixed with the flour, and then water or milk is added for plum, batter, and other pud- dings, cakes, pancakes, &c. For a cake, mix well together one quartern of flour, half a pound of butter, two ounces of sweet pork lard, three- quarters of a pound of well-washed currants, half a poimd of sugar, two packets of egg- powder, and three eggs. You may add mixed spices, grated nutmeg, and candied citron-peel, to your taste. When these are thoroughly 8tin-cd up together, with enough milk to bring the whole to a proper consistency, butter the inside of your cake-tin, put the cake in, and bake immediately. The top of the cake may be glazed with beat-up egg. Egg Salad.—Boil eight eggs hard, chop the yolks and whites separately; put a little salad into the dish, cover it with the eggs in layers. When done, make a hole in the middle and pour in the salad mixture. Egg Sandwiches.—Boil some eggs hard tw if for a salad. When quite cold, cut them into thin slices, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place the slices between nicely-prepared "bread and butter. This is a convenient and de- licate pioparation for a journey taken in haste. Egg Sauce.—^Blend two ounces of good frewh butt(!r with a dessert-spoonful of flour ; put the mixture into a small saucepan with a wine- .glassf ul of water ; or, if the sauce be intended for salt fish, of the liquor in which the fish was boiled ; see that it is not too salt, a fault which a little milk or water will remedy. Simmer, but do not boil. When ready to boil, draw the saucepan from the fire, and stir in two ounces more of butter and two or three hard-boiled eggs cut small. Time, one minute to simmer. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Egg Sauce for Calf's Head.—Take half a pint of veal or any white broth, thicken it with two ounces of butter blended with an ounce and a half of flour; add, when it boils, some minced parsley, three eggs boiled hard and chopped separately, yolks from whites, a little cayenne pepper, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Take the sauce off the fire, and stir into it another ounce of butter. Serve in a tureen. If liked, the egg-whites only may be stirred into the sauce ; the hard yolks may be pressed through a wire sieve upon the meat. Eggs, Sunshiny.—Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, sprinkle salt upon it, and break into it one or more eggs according to the number required. Fry these over the fire for about two minutes till they are sufficiently poached, and be careful to turn up the edges to keep them from spreading too far. Before sending them to table sprinkle pepper over them, and cover them with tomato sauce. This dish is named by Italians egg in purgatory. Eggs prepared in the same way, and sprinkled over with grated parmesan or gruyere cheese, are named eggs in moonshine. Egg Toast.—Place a bowl containing three ounces of good butter in boiling water, and stir imtil the butter is quite melted; mix it with f our well-beaten eggs, and put them together into a saucepan, keeping it moving round in one direction until the mixture becomes heated; then pour it quickly into a basin, and back again into the saucepan. Repeat this until it is hot, but on no account must it be boiling. Have ready some slices of- buttered toast, lay the mixture of egg thickly over, and serve very hot. Time, about five minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for two persons. Egg Vol-au-Vents.—Mince two trujSes and put them into a stewpan with two "table- spoonfuls of thick cream; add four eggs that have boiled twenty minutes, chop them smaJl; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Have ready some paste-cases, and when the mixture has simmered five minutes, fill them and serve hot. Sufficient for six cases. Egg Wine.—Boil together in a delicate saucepan one or two glasses of white wine, with half the quantity of water; sweeten to taste, and add a little nutmeg. Beat well in a basin one or two eggs, with a spoonful of cold water to each egg; pour the boUing wine very slowly into the basin, stirring steadily all the time, and then back into the saucepan. Hold the saucepan with one hand over the fire for only a minute, and stir with the other. Do not let the contents boil or they will be spoiled. Egg wine is often made without warming the egg, in which state it is lighter, if not so agi-eeable to the taste. Eggs (alaBonneFemme).—Get six eggs of the same size, large ones, boil thorn ten minutes, and when cool enough, remove the shcUs care- fully. Divide them equally in halves, take out the yolks ajgid cut from each the pointed tip oi