( 227 ) row dients named, so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in eveiy part; then tightly rolled bound firmly together with a hUft of broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding-cloth, closely tied at both ends, and di-essed as loUows :-Put it into a braising-pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan, bright on the inside, and htted as nearly as may be to its size; add all the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, two bay leaves, a largo blade of mace, twenty-four white peppercorns, and any trunmings or bones of uudi-essed veal which may be at hand. Cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt if needed, and stew very softly from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Let the bird cool in the liquor in which it was stewed, and after it is lifted out, boil down the gravy to a jelly and strain it. Let it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into large dice or roughed, and laid round the fowl, which is to be served cold. If restored to its form, instead of being rolled, the bird must be stewed gently for an hour, and may then be sent to table hot, covered with mushi-oom, or any other good sauce that may be preferred ; or it may be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm and very clear and well flavoured. The liquor in which a calf's foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, will give it the necessary degree of consistence. French cooks add three or four onions to these preparations of poultry (the last of which is called a " galantine"). Suflicient for a pie, two fowls bound and rolled. Fowl, To Dress.—Pound together in a mortar two ounces of fat bacon and the same of suet. Mince two ounces of veal and grate the same weight of lean ham. Blend all in a mortar, and beat in the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs and a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs. Flavour with an anchovy, salt, and pepper to taste, and mix to a smooth paste with three well-beaten eggs. Stuff a young, boned fowl with this forcemeat, truss it with the legs and wings drawn inward, and put it into a stewpan with a little white chicken or veal broth.. When it has stewed one hour, take it out on a hot dish; boil up the gravy, and stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour and a cupful of cream. Squeeze in the juice of haK a lemon, and serve. Sufficient for three persons. Fowl, To Hash.—Boil down the bones and trimmings of a roast or boiled fowl with a pint of stock; put in an onion or shallot, the rind of half a lemon, one blade of mace, pepper, and salt. Have ready in a clean stewpan the fowl, neatly arranged, and when the gravy has sim- mered half an hour strain it over, and add two ounces of butter rolled in flour, and two dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, ex- clusive of fowl, 5d. Suflicient for three or four persons. {See aiso Fowl, Hashed). Fowl, To Boast (German method).—Roast for half an hour before the fire a fine fowl that has been well larded and stuffed with force- meat. Take it from the spit and remove to a ttewpan. Put butter over the breast, sprinkle it with salt, and pour in a cup of mJt or mc6 veal broth. Cover it closely, but baste and steam slowly. When tender, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour, ser^^e the fowl with the sauce thickened in the dish, and a garnish of sliced lemon. Use about a tea- spoonful of arrowroot or corn-flour for the thickening. Fowl, To Souse.—Take a fowl hot from the spit, one that has been well basted w^th butter. Cut it into joints, and lay them in a hot deep dish. Have ready two or three onions, shred very fine, sprinkle them over the fowl with a small table-spoonful of pepper and salt mixed. Pour over aU a pint of boiling water, and cover so that no steam shall escape. Do not uncover until quite cold. The joints of a cold fowl may be prepared as above, and then heated in a saucepan. Remove the meat as soon as the liquid boils, and cover closely. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost of fowl, 3s. to 3s. 6d. Fowl, To Stew.—Truss a fowl as for boiling, and put it into a stewpan containing a quart of good gravy ; add a head of celery, cut into pieces of an inch in length, pepper, salt, and one small blade of mace. The fowl should bo protected from the bottom of the stewpan ; use four bright skewers for this purpose; rest the fowl upon them, and stew till the gravy is reduced to less than half its original quantity. Put the fowl on a hot dish, thicken the sauce with two ounces of butter roUed in floui-; season to taste, and add a glass of ketchup. Serve hot with the sauce poured over. Time, one hour and a half to stew. Sufficient for a diish. Fowl, To Truss (Boiled).—Pluck, draw, singe, and wash the fowl inside and out- side, then -wipe it. Cut off the neck even with the back, but leave enough skiii to roU back neatly. Take off the feet, and insert the legs in a slit oi the skin made in the sides. Pass a skewey through the leg and the bottom of the wing (the other part of the wing should be twisted over the back) through the body; do the same on both sides. Roll and skewer the sldn of the neck, and put the rump through a slit made in the apron. Secure with string across the tops of the legs, and make aU firm before boUing. White-legged fowls are best in point of colour for boiling. Fowl, To Truss (Boast).—Pluck, dra,w, singe, but do not wash the fowl. Wipe it with a couple of clean cloths, and use white paper when singeing it. Cut off the head and neck, and fold the skin over the back. Scald and scrape the legs, cutting off the claws, and fasten the pinions and legs -with a skewer long enough tc secure the other pinion and leg. Put the fiver in one wing and the gizzard in the other, and skewer the fowl firmly before it is put to the spit. A trussing-needle threaded with twine shoilld be used for this purpose; bring it through the backbone, and secure the string on the other side. Fowl, Veal, or Babbit Curry.—Cut a fowl or rabbit into neat pieces, and some veal into slices, dredge them with flour, and cove!