ARB APR (30) fruit—such as poaches, nectarinos, greengages, pears, &c. Apricots with Bavarian Blanc- mange.—Put an ounce of either superior gelatine dissolved or clarified isinglass {see Isinglass, to clarify) with a pint of cream or now milk. Squeeze the Juice of a lemon over a tea-cupful of apricot jam, and mix with it very gradually four table-spoonfuls of milk. Btir all together for a few minutes; strain through coarse muslin, and when nearly cold, put it into a mould which has been previously soaked in water. Let it stand twelve hours in a cool place. Time to boil tho mixture, five minutes. Apricots with Bice.—Simmer very gently a small tea-cupful of rice with a quart of milk. When the milk is absorbed and tho rice thoroughly cooked, put it into a bowl and beat it, for five or ten minutes, with two table- spoonfuls of sugar and six drops of almond flavouring. Press it into a moiild which has been previously soaked in water, and when it is quite cold turn it into a glass dish, and pour round it apricots stewed in halves in a syrup made of a pound of sugar, the juice of three lemons, and three or four spoonfuls of water. A few drops of prepared cochineal put into tho syrup will improve the appearance of the dish. Apples or pears may be used instead of apricots. Time to boil the rice, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six persons. Arabian Coffee.—All travellers agree in their account of the delicacy and delicious flavour of the coffee used in the East. It is prepared thus : Pound thoroughly in a mortar some coffee-berries that have been freshly and qxuckly roasted. Pass them through a fine sieve two or three times, until at last you have a brown flour. Mix two tea-spoonfuls of this floiir, and a small piece of cinnamon, with two cupf uls of water. Boil it gently, then draw it back for a moment, and repeat this several times, untU a cream rises to the top; then add half a cupful more boiling water, and it is ready to serve. Neither sugar nor milk are required. Arabian Pilau.—Cut into pieces, about two inches long, four pounds of the neck or breast of mutton, with sufficient stock for it to swim in. Add salt, pepper, and a blade of mace, and sunmer it gently for nearly two hours. Have ready a pound of Patna rice which has been boiled as if for cuiTy—that is, put into cold water and boiled up; then drained and cold water again added; boiled and drained once more; then put by the side of the fire with a piece of butter in it the size of an egg, and allowed to remain until tender. The pan must be shaken occasionally to prevent it sticking. Take out the pieces of meat, fry them lightly in butter, and place them among the rice. Garnish with the yolks of eggs boiled hard, and sliced fried onion, or pieces of bacon. Suffi- cient for six persons. Probable cost, 43. Aromatic Cordial.—Put two ounces of ground ginger, half an ounce of pepper, an ounce of cardamom seeds, half an ounce of bruised cinnamon, half an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of orange-peel, in a quart of gwd whiskey. Let it stand for a icjrtniglil, tiglitiy corked; then strain and bottle it. It in good to take two or three tea-spoonfuls in wine or water when suffering from indigestion or debility. Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices.—Take ; an ounce aud a littli <jf thyme, one ounce of bay-leaves, an ounce of savoury, an ounce of basil, and an ounce and a lialf of marjoram. Dry them thoroughly, pick the leaves. Pound in a mortar a quarter of an oimce of cayenne pepper, with an ounce of peppercorns, an ounce of cloves, a clove of garlic, the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, half an ounce of mace, and one nutmeg grated. Mix all well together, pass them through a sieve, and keep stored in well-corked bottles. Time to prepare, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. for a pint bottle. Aromatic Wine.—Jlix eighteen grains of the bisulphate of quinine and fifteen grains of citric acid in a bottle of orange wine. Shake it well, then put it aside to settle. Arroba Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan, with two table-spoon- fuls of ground rice, a pinch of salt, and a little cinnamon; stir it over the fire till it boils, let it cool, and then add four eggs well beaten. Poiir the mixture into a well-oiled mould, and steam it, being careful to cover the top of the mould. Boil it for two hours; then take it out, and put it into the oven for a quarter of an hour to make it firm, but do not let it colour. Ttim it out, and serve with it a sauce made of a cupful of nulk, the yolk of an egg, and a little sugar, stirred over the fire tiU it thickens, and then two or three spoonfuls of sherry or brandy added. Probable cost, without the sauce, 9d. Sufficient for six persons. Arrowroot Biscuits.—Beat a quarter of a poimd of butter to a cream: add gradually three well-beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and three ounces of arrowroot, poimded to crush the lumps. Mix aU smoothly together. Have ready a weU-oiled tin, and drop from a spoon in pieces about the size of a florin. Bake in a slow oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for two dozen biscuits. Probable cost, lOd. Arrowroot Blancmange. — Mix two oimces of arrowroot with a cupful of water, taking care to make it quite smooth. Put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon and a table-spoonful of sugar, and when it boils, strain it, and pour it over the arrowroot. Set it on the fire to thicken, and before pouring into the mould, which must be well oiled, add a Uttlo brandy. It is better to oil the mould than to soak it in water, as it gives tho blancmange a glistening appearance. Garnish with bright red jelly or jam. Time, half an hour. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost. 6d., without the jam and brandy.