THE NEW DOMESTIC MEDICAL MANUAL; BEING A PRACTICAL AND FAMILIAR GUIDE TO THE Cveatmeut of ©islta^esi gciuralli); ON A SIMPLIFIED AND CONDENSED PLAN: CONTAININO OPINIONS OF THE MOST EMINENT PRACTITIONERS j WITH A VARIETY OF Approved and popular Prescriptions j' TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH, FOR FAMILY PURPOSES. ALSO CONTAINING 'Bxiti <!?.tposittons of IBomcstic ^urrjtri), WITH AN ADAPTED PHARMACOPCEIA; FOR THE USE OF CLERGYMEN, HEADS OF FAMILIES, CAPTAINS OF SHIPS, TRAVELLERS, f^'c. !^c. WITH A VARIETY OF OTHER USEFUL INFORMATION, BY J. S. FORSYTH, Surgeon, ifc. S(c. LONDON: PRINTED FOR SHERWOOD, JONES, AND CO. PATERNOSTER ROW, ^# B. Bensleij, Bolt Court, Fleet Street.PREFACE, A Manual of Domestic Medicine, if an inference may be drawn from the pre-existing number of productions of a similar nature, is less wanted at the present moment than any other work. Tliose already extant are certainly, with much plausibility, ostensibly addressed to the heads of families, &c,, to direct them in tlie treatment of disease; but in reality, and this is well known, many of them are better calcu- lated to effect harm than good. By attempts at simplification, with the intention of making themselves intelligible to all classes of society, the style of them is rendered equally quaint and non-medical; nor in the illustration of disease are they less unhappy in the selection and order of their materials, either in a nosological or curative point of view. A Book that treats of diseases, whether intended for general or domestic purposes, ought, doubtless, to be established upon practical medical principles ; and any aberration from the established practice, is not only the height of presumption and empiricism, but a most absurd and unequivocal incongruity, irreconcilable with the impor- tance, as well as with the benefit that must naturally be anticipated from such an enterprise. In the arrangement of the following materials, particular regard has been paid to render them as clear and explicit as the nature of the different subjects would permit; steering the middle course be- tween brevity and prolixity, and without running either into the extremes of medical abstruseness, or descending to the tameness of a too familiar phraseology. On the other hand, if a few important diseases have been inten- tionally fimitted, such, for instance, as Gutta Serena or Anjaurosis, a disease, in fact, depending upon a paralysis of the optic nerves ; and others, again, the consequence of morbid structure or malorganisation of parts, (Sec, the reason, it is hoped, is sufficiently obvious to require no explanation here ; for, where the Faculty itself is baffled, certainly little success could be looked for in any other quarter. To supply, however, these omissions, a variety of important, interesting, and in- structive subjects have been introduced, that are not to be met witU in any other work of the kind.JV, PREFACE. In the Appendix,-wluch, like the Introduction, constitutes a valuable feature in the work, Domestic Pharmacy is laid down, in a simplified and agreeable form, embracing only such preparations as are easily at- tainable, and in more general requisition than others.—Tlie Key to the Domestic Medicine Chest is also arranged on the same plan: tjie virtues and doses of such articles being selected which are known fora experience to be those mostly called for by all who prescribe for them- selves. In presenting the reader with a list of Nostrums, that is, Quack Medicines, with the quantity, quality. Sec. of their ingredients, it may be superfluous to add, that this is not done, by any means, to recom- mend them either to private families or individuals, who can always be supplied, at one-fifth of the price, at the counter of the apothecaiy^pr thfe druggist with the genuine articles, and with less risk to their lives; for, it must be clear to every one possessing the least knowledge of medicine, that what might, at one stage of disease, prove serviceable, at another would do harm ; in fact, an indiscriminate continuance in its use might destroy the patient. Themotive, on the contrary, which in- duced the Author to exhibit, to the credulous and less experienced eye^ the nostrums in question,*is to convince them that the profession IS not, as supposed by many, ignorant of their component parts ; con- sequently with all their pretended and contradictory virtues; for many indeed there are, even at the present enlightened period, who imagine that advertised nostrums are secrets unknown to any one but their iiiventors, and, on this account alone, properties so extraordinary are ascribed to them that the unwary give them an exclusive pre- ference to the legitimate and approved prescription of the qualified physician; and this, it would seem, merely because the former are more destructive and expensive than a recipe from the latter, of a more simple and more efficacious nature, given without secrecy or re- reserve. Happily, however, for mankind, the clouds and mysteries of Charlatanism are fast dissipating before the irresistible rays of science, in defiance of every obstacle that hitherto has beea opposed to their progress. THE AUTHOR. 21, Salisbury Placet IFalworth .CONTENTS. page A Anxiety..... , 8 Hypochondriacal .. 9 Acidity of Infants 34 Anthony's (St.) Fire 13 Agues 80 Apoplexy 115 Anecdote of Sydenham .... 134 Asthma 104 Atrophy 196 Anasarca (see Dropsy) of the Cellular Membrane. Animation, Suspended .... 301 from Cold Drowning Hanging Intoxication Apoplexy Noxious Vapors Lightning Articles for Domestic Par- poses 329 B Bowels, Inflammation of .. .50 Bladder, Inflammation of .. 58 Bleeding at the Nose 92 Blood, Spitting of 95 Vomiting of 98 Voiding of, by Urine 99 Bubo 249 Burns (see Scalds) Blotched Face 288 Catarrh 107 Congh 25 Hooping 157 xlostiveness 28,208 Constitutions 31,32,33 Change of Scene, &c 38 Croup 37 Cramp (see Tetanus and Spasms) Canine Madness (see Hy- drophobia) Colic 177 Consumption 209 Corpulence 211 Clap (see Gonorrhoea) Chordce 245 Chancre 249 Chilblains 288 Cerates (see Ointments) Clysters 320 D Diseases, Simple and Com- pound 2 , Symptoms of .... ib. , Causes of ib. , Hereditary 8 from Age and Sex 4 Climate .... ib. Accidents or External Causes 5 from fnternal Causes ib. Passions of the Mind .... 6 Specific,Morbific,&c. 35 Delirium 17 Disorders of Respiration .. 25 of Digestion .... 28 Drinking, Excess in 37 Diet 40 Dysentery no Dyspepsy 12GTin. CONTENTS. Page Sleep 19 Secretion il). Sneezing 27 Specific Morbific Diseases prevented 35 Stomach, Foul 36 Sleep 39 Sore Throat, Inflammatory, 27 .... Putrid 31 Sciatica 77 Spitting of Blood 95 Syncope 123 Sardonic Ijangli 150 Swellings of the Solid Parts 227 Scrofula 231 Syphilis 238 Swelled Testicles 245 Scurvy 253 Seminal Weakness 264 Stomach, Pain in 279 Stone (see Gravel) Scalds 283 Scald Head 286 Sprains 292 Syrups 311 Taste 10 Tympany 212 Page Throat, Sore 27 Tetanus 151 Testicles, Swelled 245 Tooth-ache 276 Tic Doloureux 278 tJ Urine, Incontinency of .... 263 Suppression and Dif- ficulty of 269 V Vertigo, or Swimming in the Head 16, 128 Vis Mediratrix Naturae .... 6 Valetudinarians, Manage- ment of 30 Vitiated FInids ; 34 Vomiting of Blood 98 Voiding hy Urine 99 Vitus', St., Dance 14S Venereal Disease (see Syphi- lis) W Water Brash 194 Water in the Head 223 Whites (sec Fluor Albus) AVornis , 290THEORETICAL INTRODUCTION TO THE PRACTICE OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. PRINCIPAL FWCTIONS OF THE BODY. !BY the Word functiou," generally speaking, is meant tli6 exercise, execution, or performance of some charge, duty, or office. The functions of living animals, particularly those of the human species, are very numerous, and the accounts given of them, both in a state of health and disease, are very various. Some functions of the human body, observes Dr. James Gregory,* relate to itself only, and others to ex- ternal things. To the latter class, belong those which are called by physicians the animal fmictioris. Among the functions which relate to the body, some have been named vital—such as the circulation of the blood and respiration; because, without the constant continuance of these, Ufe cannot subsist; others, intended for repairing the vraste of the system, have been termed the natural functions; for, by the constant attrition of the solids, and the evaporation of the fluid parts of the body, we stand in need of nourishment to supply the waste; after which the ]>utrid and excreinentitious parts must be thrown out by the proper passages. The digestion of the food, secretioa of the different humours of the body, and excretion of the ♦ Conspectus Jle^einre Tlieor«tic«. Edit. 1782. aII different parts of the food, are referred to this class; which, though necessary to life, may yet be interrupted for a considerable time without danger. SIMPLE AND COMPOUND DISEASES. Whenever the body declines so far from the sound state, that any of its functions are either quite impeded or per- formed with difficulty, a disease may be said to have taken place ; and this may happen to any part of the body, either solid or fluid, or to any one of the functions belonging to it; and these may take place singly, or several of them may be diseased at the same time : on this is grounded the dis- tinction of the diseases into simple and compound. We have examples of the most simple kinds of disease, in rupture, for instance, or other injury of any of the cor- poreal organs, by which means they are rendered less lit for performing their offices ; or, though the organs them- selves should remain sound, if the solids or fluids have de- generated from a healthy state; or, if, having lost their proper qualities, they have acquired others of a different, perhaps of a noxious, nature; or, lastly, if the moving powers shall become too weak or too strong, or direct their force in a way contrary to that required by nature. SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. Every thing in which a sick person is observed to differ from one in health, is called a symptom; and the most re- markable of these symptoms, which constantly appear, de- fine and constitute the disease; and the most simple diseases are either productive of others, or of symptomsy by which alone they become known to us. CAUSES OF DISEASES. These are various, not unfrequently obscure, and some- times entirely unknown. The most full and perfect proxi- mate cause is that, whicbi when present, produces a disease;lU when taken away, removes it; and, when changed, changes it. There are also remote causes, which physicians have been accustomed to divide into the predisponent and excit- ing ones. The former are those which only render the body fit for a disease, or which put it into such a state that it will readily receive one. The predisponent cause is always inherent in the body itself; though, perhaps, it originally came frojn without; for instance, heat or cold, a very spare diet, and many other circumstances, may operate as predisposing causes, inducing plethora, inanition, or the like. But the exciting cause may either come from within or without. By a combination of the predisposing and exciting causes, arises the proximate cause, which neither of the two taken singly, is often able to produce. A body predisposed to dis- ease, therefore, has already declined somewhat from a state of perfect health, although none of its functions are arrested in such a manner that the person may be said to be diseased. The predisponent cause, nevertheless, by con- tinuing long, may arrive at such a length, that it alone, with- out the interference of the exciting cause, may produce a real disease. The exciting cause also, though it should not be able to bring on disease, yet if it continue long, will imme- diately gradually destroy the strongest constitution j and render it liable to various disorders ; because it either pro- duces a predisponent cause, or is converted into it, so that the same thing may sometimes be an exciting cause, some- times a predisponent one, or rather a cause of predisposi- tion ; of which the inclemencies of the weather, sloth, luxury, &c., are examples. HEREDITARY DISEASES. Under every consideration, diseases seem to have their origin from the very constitution of the animal machine ; hence many disorders are common to every one when a proper exciting cause occurs, though some people are much fioore liable to certain diseases than others. Some are here- a2iv ditary; for as healthy parents naturally produce healthy children, so diseased parents as naturally produce a dis- eased offspring. Some of these hereditary diseases make their appearance in the earliest infancy; others occur equally at all ages; nor are there wanting those, which liirk unsuspected in the systam even to the latest old age, and at last break out with the utmost virulence. Some diseases are born with us, even though they may liave no proper foundation in onr constitution, as when a child in the womb receives some hurt from an injury done to the mother; while others, neither born with us, nor hav- ing any foundation in the constitution, are inhaled with the riurse's milk. DISEASES FROM AGE AND SEX. There are many diseases which accompany the different stages of life; hence some are peculiar to infancy, youth, and old age. Others, again, are also peculiar to each of the sexes, especially to the female, proceeding, doubtless, from the general constitution of the body, but particularly from the state of the parts subservient to generation: hence those diseases peculiar to virgins, to menstruating women, to women with child, to lying-in women, nurses, and old women. DISEASES FROM CLIMATE. The different climates under which people live produce some diseases ; and every climate has a tendency to pro- duce particular diseases, either from its excess of heat or cold, or from the mutability of the weather. A great variety of diseases may also be produced by impure air, or such as is loaded with putrid, marshy, or other noxious vapours. The same may take place from corrupted aliment, ■whether solid or fluid; though even the best and most nutritious food will hurt, if taken in too great a quantity ; not to caj a word about poisons, which possess such per- niciom qualitiei, that even wljtn t^keu in very minute por-V tlons, they produce the most dangerous diseases, and frei qnently death itself. DISEASES FROM ACCIDENTS OR EXTERNAL CAUSES. From the innumerable accidents and dangers to vvhicli mankind are exposed, they frequently have thdr limbs broken, receive wounds and contusions, sometimes incur- able ; and these misfortunes although they owe, in the first place, their origin to external causes, often terminate in internal diseases. DISEASES FROM INTERNAL CAUSES. The dangers which come from without are not less, nor fewer in number, than those which arise from within. At every breath man pours forth a deadly poison both to him- self and to others. Not only is the effluvia of the lungs hurtful, but from every part of the body there issues forth a most subtle and poisonous matter, perhaps of a putrescent nature, which, from having been long accumulated, and not having been suffered to diffuse itself through the air, infects the body with the most grievous diseases; neither does it stop here, but produces a contagion which spreads far and M ide among mankind. From too much or too little exercise of our animal powers also, no small danger ensues. By in- activity either of body or mind, both are impaired ; and tho danger is not much diminished from over-exertion. By- moderate use, all the faculties of the mind, as well as all the parts of the body, are strengthened and improved; and here nature has appointed certain limits, so that exercise can neither be too much neglected, nor too much increased with impunity. For this reason, those who use violent ex- ercise, as well as those who consume their time in sloth and idleness, are equally liable to diseases of different kinds; for this reason also, the bad effects of too great or too little employment of the mental faculties.vi DISEASES FROM PASSIONS OF THE MIND, ETC. Independent of the dangers arising out of such actions of the body and mind as are within our power, there are others which are quite involuntary and beyond our control: in tliis manner, the passions of the mind, when they are carried to too great an excess, or, when long con- tinued, destroy health, and sometimes occasion sudden death ; sleep, also, which is indispensable to the restora- tion of the exhausted strength of the body, either when too much or too little indulged in. In the most healthy body also, many things always require to be evacuated. The retention of these is hurtful, as well as too profuse an evacuation, or the excretion of those things, either sponta- neously or artificially, which nature directs to be retained. As the solid parts sometimes become flabby, soft, almost dissolved, and unfit for their proper offices, so the fluids are sometimes thickened, and even formed into the hardest solid masses. Hence impeded actions of the organs, vehe- ment pain, various and grievous diseases. Again, some animals are to be reckoned among the causes of diseases : Buch, particularly, as support their life at the expense of others ; and these either invade us from without, or take Up their residence within the body, gnawing the bowels while the person is yet alive, not only with great dangei- and distress to the patient, but sometimes ending in death itself. VIS MEDICATRIX NATURiE. Notwithstanding the calamities to which mankind in general are subjected, the human body is not left defence- less against them; it is possessed of a most wonderful power, by which it preserves itself from diseases, keeps off many, and, in a very short time, cures some already begun, while others are by the same means slowly brought to a happy termination. This power, denominated the autocra- teia, or vis medicatrix natura, well known both to phy-Vll sicians and philosophers, is often sufficient for cnring many diseases, and is of service in all 5 and it is equally known that the best medicines operate only by stimulating and properly directing this force; for no medicines will act on a dead carcase. But though physicians justly place con- fidence in their power, and though it generally cures dis- eases of a slighter nature, it must not be imagined that those of a more violent nature are to be left to the unas- sisted efforts of the vis medicatrix natiirce. Physicians, therefore, have a two-fold error to avoid, either in despising the powers of nature too much, or putting too great a degree of confidence in them; because in many diseases these efforts are either too feeble or too violent, insomuch as sometimes more to be dreaded than even the disease itself. So far, therefore, is it from being the duty of a physician always to follow the footsteps of nature, that it is often necessary for him to take a directly opposite course, and oppose her efforts by every means in his power. EXTERNAL SENSES. SENSE OF FEELING. This sense is common to every part of the nervous sys- tem ; in some places, however, it is much more acute than in others ; for instance, in the skin, and especially at the points of the fingers. Pain. From the sense of feeling either pleasure or pain may arise; nay, to this sense we commonly refer both pain and almost all other troublesome sensations; though, in fact, pain may arise from every vehement sensation. It is brought on by any great force applied to the sentient part, whether this force may come from within or from without. "Whatever, therefore, pricks, cuts, lacerates, distends, com- presses, bruises, strikes, gnaws, burns, or in any manner of way stimulates, may create pain. Hence it is so frequently conjoined with many diseases, and is often more intolerable than the disease itself. A moderate degree of pain stimu-Vlll lates the affected part, and by degrees the whole body; produces a great flux of blood to the part affected, by in- creasing the action of its vessels; and it seems also to in- crease the sensibility of the part affected to future impres- aions. It often stimulates to such motions as are bolli necessary and salutary. Hence pain is sometimes to be reckoned among those things which guard our life. When very violent, however, it produces too great irritation, in- flammation, and its consequences, fever, and all those evils which flow from too great a force of the circulation ; it dis- orders the whole nervous system, and produces spasms, ■watching, convulsions, delirium, debility, and fainting. Neither the mind nor the body can long bear very velie- ment pain; and, indeed, nature lias set certain limits be- yond which she will not permit pain to be carried, without bringing on delirium, convulsions, syncope, or even death, to rescue the miserable sufferer from his torments. Long- continued pain, even though in a more gentle degree, often brings on debility, torpor, palsy, and rigidity of the affected part. But if not too violent, nor accompanied with fever, sickness, or anxiety, it sometimes appears to contribute to the clearness and acuteness of the judgment, as some people troubled with gout have testified. ANXIETY. Another disagreeable sensation, quite different from pain, is anxiety—it is also more obtuse, and less capable of being referred to any particular part. Care, however, must be taken not to confound this anxiety, which we treat of in a medical sense, with that which is spoken of in com- mon discourse. The latter docs not at all depend on the state of the body, but belongs entirely to the mind ; and arises from a sense of danger, or a foresight of any misfortune. The former is truly corporeal, and derives, no less than pain, its origin from a certain state of the body. It it very possible, notwithstanding this difference, for both these Kinds of anxiety to be present at the same lime, orix for the owe to be the cause of the other. A very great bodily anxiety will strike fear and despondency into the most resolute mind ; and mental anxiety, on the contrary, if very violent and long continued, may induce the former, by destroying the powers of the body, especially those ■which promote the circulation of the blood. In the medical sense of the word, anxiety arises, in the first place, from every cause that may disturb or impede the motion of the blood through the heart and large vessels near it. It may, therefore, arise from many diseases of the heart and its vessels,—such as its enlargement, too great construction, ossification, polypus, palpitation, syncope, inflammation, debility, as well as from some affections of the mind. It is also produced by every difficulty of breath- ing, from whatever cause the latter may arise; because then the blood passes less freely through the lungs: anxiety of this kind is felt deep in the breast. It is likewise said to arise from the difficult passage of the blood through the liver, &c. HYPOCHONDRIACAL ANXIETY. There is another kind of anxiety exceedingly common and troublesome to hypochondriacal persons, which arises from the stomach and bowels , being eitiier loaded with undigested and corrupted food, or distended with air pro- duced by fermentation, and extricated from the aliments. Anxiety of this kind is, therefore, for the most part usually and suddenly relieved by the air being expelled. Sec. This sensation also accompanies fever in a greater or less degree; increasing as the fever increases, and diminishing as it subsides; and exists in these, as in other diseases, in pro- portion to the exhausted state of the vital power, and as death approaches, of which it is the forerunner. Even in the time of sleep anxiety may arise from the same causes— hence frightful dreams, &c. a5X ITCHING. This is an uneasy sensation, accompanied with a desire to scratch the part affected ; it is often very troublesome, although it seems to be more closely allied to pleasure than pain; as the latter proceeds from too great an irritation, either chemical or mechanical; the former from a slight one. Tilillation, or friction, for instance, from the skin being in contact with a woollen shirt, to a person unaccustomed to it, and of a delicate constitution, excites itching, as also do many acrid fossils, vegetables, and animals. Hence an itching is the first sensation after the application of a blister of Spanish flies; although it becomes afterwards painful, from the increase of irritability induced by its re- maining long enough on the part. The same effect is pro- duced by any thing acrid thrown out upon the skin, as in eruptive fevers, the disease called the itch, &c. Lice, and worms, especially those called maw-worms, irritating either the skin or the intestines, excite a troublesome itch- ing. This sense accompanies a variety of diseases, and is very rarely depraved, unless, perhaps, in tlie case of de-; lirium, where all the functions of the brain are disturbed in a surprising manner. TASTE. The principal organ of this sense is the tongue, and the nearer the tip, the more acute; the nearer the root, the more obtuse. Nothing can be tasted which is not capable of being dissolved by the saliva. Neither is it sufficient for a body to be soluble that it may be tasted; it must have some sahne or acrid property, in or- der to stimulate the nervous subsfance of the tongue; hence, whatever has less salt in it than the saliva, is to- tally insipid. The taste is rarely found to be too acute, unless through some fault in the epidermig covering thexi tongue. When this is wounded, or removed, or diseased, then the taste, becoming too acute, is painful, &c. Tlie sense of taste may be impaired, like that of any other external sense, from various diseases of the brain and nerves ; of which, however, there are but few in* stances. In some people it is more bhmted, as well as more acute, than in others ; and where the sense of taste is deficient, that of smelling is also so. It is sometimes deficient, owing to tlie want of saliva; for a dry tongue cannot perceive any taste : hence this sense is very dull in many diseases, especially in fevers, &c. It is also frequently depraved ; as when, for instance, we have a perception of taste without the application of any thing to the tongue ; or, when any thing is applied to it, we feel a taste different from wbat it ought to be. This happens, for the most part, from a vitiated condition of the saliva, which is itself tasted in the mouth. Independent of this, the taste may be vitiated from other causes, &c. In almost every disease, especially in fevers, physicians inquire into the state of the tongue, and not without the greatest reason ; as from this they can judge of the state of the stomach, of the thirst, or rather the occasion the patient has for drink, when, on account of delirium or stupor, he neither feels his thirst, nor is able to call for drink. And, lastly, from an inspection of the tongue, physicians endeavour to form some judgment concerning the nature, increase, and remission of the fever, &c. SMELL. The seat of this sense is in that very soft and delicate membrane, filled with nerves and blood-vessels, which covers the internal parts of the nose, and (he various sinuses and cavities proceeding from thence. As, by our taste, we are enabled to judge of the soluble parts of bodies, so, by our sense of smelling, we can detect those very volatile and subtle parts which fly into the air; and, like the organ of taste, that of smell is kept moist, that itsXll ifeQAation may be thfe more exqaisite, partly by its proper mucus and partly by the tears which descend from the eyes. Some kinds of odours greatly affect the nervous system, and produce the most surprising effects. Some gratefully excite it, and immediately recruit the spirits, when almost sinking, while others produce fainting, and sometimes death itself. The sense of smelling is sometimes too acute, either from disease of the organ, which happens more rarely, or from the too great sensibility of the nervous system in ge- neral. It is more frequently, however, too dull, either in consequence of diseases of the brain and nerves, as from some violence done to the head, or from some internal cause; or it may proceed from a dryness of the organ it- self, either on account of the customary humours being suppressed, or turned anotiicr way, or from the membranes being oppressed with too great a quantity of mucus, or tears, &c, HEARING. This sense is more frequently impaired than almost any of the rest, from the delicacy of its structure. It frequently becomes too acute, either from the general habit of the body being too irritable, such as happens in hysterical or lying-in women, or from too great sensibility of the braiti itself, which is not unfrcqucutly remarked in fevers, as well as in inflammation of the brain, &c., or it may proceed from a disease of the ear itself, as when it is affected with inflammation, pain, or too great a degree of tension. It may be rendered dull, or it may be altogether destroyed, so that the person shall become totally deaf, from the same causes acting with different degrees of force. This hap- pens, especially, from the want of the external ear; or from the auditory passage being stopped up with mucus, wax, or other matters ; or from the sides of the canal growing together, as sometimes happeus after suppurationXlll or the small-pox ; or by the drum of the ear becoming rigid or relaxed ; or from its being corroded or ruptured; or the driira of tlie ear, or the eustachian tube may, from certain causes, be obstructed ; or some of the little bones or membranes, or some of the muscles of the labyrinth, may be affected with concretion, spasm, palsy, or torpor; or, lastly, it may happen from diseases of the brain or nerves. Hence deafness is often a nervous disease, com- ing on suddenly and going off spontaneously. For the same reason, also, it is common in old people, all of whose solid parts are too rigid, while their nervous parts have too little sensibility. A very common disease in the sense of hearing is, when certain sounds, like tliose of a drum, a bell, the fall of water, &c., are heard, without any tremor in the air, or without a person, whose sense of hearing is sound, hearing any thing. This disease is called by physicians tinnitus •aiirium (ringing in tlie cars). It is, for tlie most part, a :slight transient disorder ; but sometimes it is most obsti- mate, long-continued, and troublesome; arising frequently drom tlie slightest c.iuse, such as any tiling partially stop- iping up the auditory passage, &c., so that access is in part -denied to the air, whence it happens that the latter strikes the membrane of the tynipaitum or drum, or perhaps the interior parts unequally, and with too much force ; hence that resounding noise, or ringing of the ears, heard by the most healtliy when they yawn. Ringing of the ears and deafness accompany many diseases, the latter particularly accompanies typhus fevers. The former may arise without any vehement affection of the mind ; sometimes from dis- OJdersin the stomach; from a rheumatic disorder affecting the ears and head.; in fact, both may arise from a variety of causes, which, unless they are removed, do not admit of-being cither certainly or easily cured. SI G PIT. iVlany'disorders or varieties of this sense are often ob- served. Those persons are called short-sighted who cau-xiv not see distinctly, unless the object be very near them. This disease arises from too great a refraction of the rays of light, by reason of their being too soon collected into a focus by the crystalline lens, and diverging again upon the retina,* by which means they make an indistinct picture upon it. The most common cause is too great a convexity of tlie eye or some of its humours—as too prominent a cornea, &c. It is a disorder common to young people, which is sometimes removed when they grow older. As soon as the first approaches of short-sightedness are observed, it is supposed it may be obviated by the person's accustoming himself to view remote objects, and keeping his eyes off very small and near ones ; as, on the contrarj', it may be brought on bj' the opposite custom ; because tlie eye accommodates itself somewhat to the distances of those objects which it is accustomed to view. But a concave glass, which causes the rays of light to diverge more than they naturally would before falling upon the cornea, is the most simple and certain remedy. Long-sighted people are those who cannot see an object distinctly, unless it be at a considerable distance from them. This arises from a cause opposite to the former ; namely, the eye being too flat, so that there is no room for refracting the rays, and bringing them into a focus. This defect is most common in old people, and is remedied by the use of convex glasses. Nyctnlopis are those who see better with a very weak than with a strong light. It is a defect very seldom met with in the human race, though every person is sensible of it who has been long kept in the dark, and is then sud- denly brought into the light. The disease arises from too great a sensibility of the retina, and the pupil of the eye being too open. The sight is subject to many grievous disasters. It is sharpfened beyond measure, so that the person either per- * The third, or innermost membrane of tli« eye. It is the true orgai\ ©fvision.XV ceives nothing distinctly or with great pain, from the same causes that induce a similar disorder in the other senses. It is made dull, or even totally annihilated, by age, from causes dependent on the change of structure and function, on this account, from age. It is also depraved, by things appearing of a different colour from what they actually are. There is also another kind of depravation of the sight; when, without any light being admitted to the eyes, sparks, small drops of flame of a gold colour, and various other colours, are observed to float before us. This is ge- nerally a very slight and transient disorder, common to those whose constitutions are very irritable, and arises from the slight impulse, as it would seem on the retina, by a more violent beating, than usual, of the vessels. A fiery circle is observed by pressing the eye with (he finger after the eyelids are shut. The same reason, perhaps, may be given for those sparks which are seen by persons labouring under the falling sickness, and increasing to the size of an Immense and luminous beam before they fall down in con- vulsions. A similar beam is also testified by those who have revived from hanging and drowning, in consequence, doubtless, of the vessels of the head swelling and compress- ing the nervous parts of the bead, from the suppression of respiration, &c. SQUINTING. There is another defect of vision which remains to be mentioned ; namely, squinting. A person is said to squint who has the axes of the eyes more oblique than usual, and directed to different points. It is an evil, for the most part, born with the person, and often corrected by those attempts which an infint makes to see more agreeably and distinctly ; and this without even being conscious of its own defects. It is also easily learnt, especially in infants, and without their knowledge, by that kind of imitation which has a great influence over the human race, more particularly in their tender years. It is by no means, however, to be unlearned when once acquired. It mayxvi also be occasioned by disease, such as palsy, spasms, rigi- dity, &c., of the muscles which manage the eye; by epi- lepsy, water on the brain, and other diseases of the head. It is a remarkable physiological fact, that if the optic nerve did not enter the retina in an oblique direction, but passed directly through its centre, we should all either have squinted or seen double. VERTIGO, OR SWIMMING IN THE HEAD. The sensation known by the above names has been re- ferred by physicians to the sense of vision, though it would rather seem to belong to that of feeling, or of con- sciousness ; for in many instances the disorder is not re- moved either in the dark or by shutting the eyelids. The vertigo takes place when external objects, really at rest, seem to reel, whirl round, to tumble, or to move in any manner of way. If the disorder be very violent, the per- son is neither able to see, on account of dimness of sight, nor can he stand, as the power fails which ought to govern the limbs. An inclination to vomit usually accompanies swimming of the head, and the one generally produces the other. This disorder is observed to be both the symptom and forerunner of some dangerous disease, such as apo- plexy, epilepsy, hysteria; discharges of blood from the nose and other parts ; suppression of the menses; ple- thora, fever ; injuries done to the head ; sudden loss of blood; various motions of the head and of the whole body; and not unfrequently by affections of the mind itself. Although, for the most part, vertigo is a symptom con- comitant on other disorders, it is sometimes a primary disease, returning at intervals, increasing gradually, and equally impeding and destroying the functions of both body and mind. OF THE I^^TERNAL SENSES. The senses properly called internal are^ the Memory^ the Imagination, and the Judgment;xvu MEMORY is lessened, disturbed, or even totally destroyed, iu many diseases, especially those which affect the brain—as in apo- plexy, palsy, internal tumours of the head, external vio- lence ; fevers, especially those in which there is a strong determination to the head, or where the brain, in any other way, is much affected. The memory, however, is very rarely found so much af- fected that ideas are not represented to the mind in their proper order; or if, at any time, such a disorder occurs, it is considered rather as a disorder of the imagination, or as a delirium, than a failure of the memory. The mind is said to be disordered when the perceptions of memory or imagination are confounded with tliose of sense, and, of consequence, those things believed to be now present which are really past, or wliich never existed; or when the sense of the person concerning ordinary things is different from that of other people. The general name for such disorders is vcsania, a disease in which the judgment is impaired, without being accompanied either with lethargic drowsi- iiess or fever: if it proceed from fever, it is then called delirium. A general fury, without a fever, is called mania, or madness ; but a partial madness, on one or two points, the judgment, in all other respects, remaining sound, is called melancholy. There is, however, no exact and accurate limits between a sound mind and madness. All immoderate vivacity borders upon madness; and, on the other hand, a sorrowful and gloomy disposition ap- proaches to melancholy, *' the parent of error." DELIRIUM accompanies fevers of many different kinds. It is some- times slight, easily removed, and scarcely to be accounted a bad sign. Very often, however, it is extremely violent, and one of the very worst signs, requiring the utmoit care and attention. It is either fierce or mijid, The fierce de-XVlll lirium is preceded and accompanied by a redness of the countenance, a pain of the head, a great beating of the arteries, and noise in the ears ; the eyes, in the mean time, looking red, inflamed, fierce, shining, and unable to bear the light; there is either no sleep at all, or sleep troubled with horrid dreams ; the wonted manners are changed ; unusual peevishness and ill-nature prevail. The deprava- tion of judgment is first observed between sleep and wak- ing, and by the person crediting his imagination, while the perceptions of sense are neglected, and the ideas of nie- piory occur in an irregular manner. Fury at length takes place, and sometimes an unusual and iucredible degree of bodily strength, so that several attendants can scarcely keep a single patient in his bed. The mild delirium is, on the contrary, often accompanied with a weak pulse, a pale collapsed countenance, and a vertigo when the patient sits in an erect posture ; he is seldom angry, but often stupid, and sometimes remarkably grieved and fearful. The loss of judgment, as in the former kind, is first perceived when the patient is half awake ; but a temporary recovery en- sues upon the admission of the light and the conversation of his friends. The patient mutters much to himself, au<k attends little to the things around him ; at last, becoming quite stupid, he neither feels the sensations of hunger nor thirst, nor any of the other propensities of nature, on which account, urine and excrements are involuntarily voided. As the disorder increases, it ultimately terminates in death, 6cc. SPASMS. Among the diseases of the muscular power are too great mobility ; torpor, which is the opposite to this ; debility, palsy, and spasms, which are a violent and irregular motion of the muscles. There are two kinds of spasms, the tonic and clonic. The latter is frequently called a convulswii, in order to distinguish it from the other, which is more peculiarlyxix called spasm. Spasm, therefore, is a violent, constant, and preternatural contraction of the muscular fibres ; but a convulsion is an unusual and violent contraction, alter- nated with relaxation. People are rendered liable to spasm by too sensible a habit of body or too great mobility ; and hence it is a dis- ease common in women, in infants, and in weak, luxurious, lazy, and plethoric people. It is brought on those already predisposed to it, by any kind of stimulus applied to the brain, or to any nerve, muscle, or nervous part connected with it; of which we have examples in the teething of children ; worms lodged in the intestines, and irritating them ; any acrid matter infecting the blood, or much af- fecting the stomach and intestines; the irritation of any nerve, or of the brain itself; from a hard tumour of bone ; swelling ; too great fulness of the vessels ; pain ; vehe- ment aflFections of the mind ; sudden evacuations, or poison admitted into the body. Frequently, however, the ma- lady takes its origin from slight causes, little known, and not easily observed. It is both the cause and effect, and frequently constitutes the greatest part of many diseases. (See Tetanus or Cramp, p. 131.) SLEEP. The use of sleep is sufficiently obvious from the effects it produces. It restores both the powers of the mind and body when exhausted by exercise, giving vigour to the one and restoring the other to its accustomed alacrity. By means of sleep the muscles are again rendered active and moveable, after they have become wearied, rigid, painful, and trembling from hard labour and severe exercise. It moderates the quickness of the pulse, which usually in- creases at night, and brings it back to its morning stand- ard. It seems also to assist the digestion of the alimeut; it diminishes both secretions and excretions, and renders tlie fluids thicker than otherwise they would be, particularly in a body endowed with much sensibility or mobility. Sleep,XX therefore, is not only useful, but absolutely indispensable for the preservation of life and health, and contributes most essentially to the alleviation, as well as to the total removal, of disease. The want of it is equally hurtful, and in many different ways, to the nervous system. It renders the external as well as the internal organs of sense, and those of every kind of motion, unfit for the perfoimance of their offices. Hence the sensations are either annihilated, or become imperfect or vitiated; and hence imbecility of mind, defective memory, a kind of de- lirium, mania itself, pain of the head, weakneis of the joints, imperfect or inordinate action of the vital organs, quickness of the pulse, heat, fever, depraved digestion, atrophy, leanness, and an increase or perturbation of the secretions * and excretions.t Sleep may be prevent- ed or totally interrupted, from a variety of causes; such as strong light, noisCj pain, anger, joy, grief, fear, anxiety, hunger, thirst, vehement desire, motion of the body, memory, imagination, intense thought, &c. On the other hand, it is brought on by a slight impression of the organs of sense, or none at all; by the humming of bees, the noise of falling water, cold, and insipid discourse; in short, by any such exercise of the memory as is neither too laborious nor disturbing for the mind. Too great an impulse of the blood towards the head, such as often happens in fever, prevents sleep ; hut a free and equal distribution of the blood through the whole body, especially the extreme parts, frequently brings it on. Whatever weakens the body also favours sleep ; and hence various kinds of evacuations, the warm bath, fomentations, sometimes heat itself, are useful for promoting it. It comes on easily after taking food, &c. Cold produces a * Secretion is meant to express tliat function by which an organ se- parates from tlie blood the constituent parts of a fluid that docs not exist in it with its characteristic properties. t Excretion is applied to the separation or secretion of those fluids from the blood of an animal that are supposed to be useless, such as urine, perspiration, &c.XXI deep sleep of long continuance, not easily disturbed, and often terminating in deatk. There are also certain sub- stances wliich, when applied to the body, not only do not excite the nervous system, but plainly lay us asleep, and render us unfit for sensation ; of this kind are those called narcotics, as opium and the like ; among which also we may reckon witic, when taken in too great quantity. Watching itself is also a cause of sleep ; as when a man is awake, he is always exercising, more or less, the organic powers of his body, by which the nervous influence is diminished, and thus the more violently the body is ex- ercised, in the same proportion is the person wnder the necessity of sleeping. Sleep is deficient in many dis- eases ; for there are few which do not excite pain, anxiety, or uneasiness sufficient to prevent the ap- proach of sleep, or to disturb it. Want of sleep will hurt in diseases as w ell as in health, and for the same reason, but in a greater degree and more quickly in the former than in the latter. Too much sleep, on the other hand, produces many mischiefs, rendering the whole body lan- guid, torpid, and lazy, and it even almost takes away the judgment. It also disturbs the circulation, and diminishes most of the secretions and excretions. Hence plethora, fatness, flaccidity, and an inability for the common affairs of life. The causes of this excess are, either the usual c?,uses of sleep above-mentioned increased beyond mea- sure, or some fault in the brain, or a compression of it by aa extravasation of the humours; or, as it would sometimes appear, from great debility produced by some unusual cause, as in those who are recovering from typhus fevers and other diseases. In these instances, however, this excess of sleep is by no means hurtful, nor even, perhaps, in those cases where an excess of grief continued for a long time, or a great fright, has produced a surprising and un- expected somnolency. Many people have accustomed themselves, and that not •without a great deal of injury to their constitution!, to sleep too much. Nor are there pxamplcn wanting of tl^ose whoxxu have passed whole days, and even months, in almost unin- terrupted sleep.—(See Sleep, p.xix). OF THE PULSE. ^ Medically speaking, the beating of the artery at the wrist is termed the pulse. It depends upon the impulse given to the blood by the heart; hence physicians feel the pulse to ascertain the quickness or slowness of the circu- lation, which, indeed, is very various, as well with regard to frequency as to the strength and equality of its strokes and intervals. Its usual standard in a healthy adult is about 70 beats or pulsations in a minute. In a foetus or child in the womb, it is, perhaps, more than double this amount; and in an infant a few weeks old, hardly less than 120. As we grow up this quickness diminishes; so that in extreme old age it sometimes does not exceed 50, or is even slower. This rule, however, is not without ex- ceptions ; for many, especially those of an irritable habit, have the pulse much quicker; while others, in the vigor of their age, have their pulse remarkably slow. In women it is usually somewhat quicker than in men. It may also be rendered quicker, both in a healthy and in a diseased state of the body, by the application of various kinds of sti- muli. Exercise, more especially, by accelerating the re- turn of the blood through the veins, increases the quick- ness of the pulse in a surprising degree. Various kinds of irritations affecting the nervous system—as intense think- ing, passions of the mind, pain, beat, stimulating medicines, wine, spices, &c., have all the same effect; as well as the acrimony of the blood itself, which is thought to quicken the pulse. On first awaking in the morning, the pulse is slow, but gradually becomes quicker, owing to the variety of irritatuig matters applied to the body. Its quickness is increased after taking food, especially of the animal kind, or such as is hot or highly seasoned. Towards the evening a slight fever comes on, for which rest and sleep are the remedies.XXlll These, however, are scarcely to be observed in a healthy person, but are evident enough in one that is feverish, especially when the fever is a hectici* Debility itself often renders the pulse quicker than usual; in consequence of the action of the right ventricle of the heart not being sufficient to empty itself, it is the sooner dilated again, and, of necessity, contracts the sooner. This is the reason why physicians are unable to judge of the strength of the circulation from the frequency of the pulse. In all fevers, however different from one another they may be, the pulse is found to be too quick, partly from de- bility, partly from the acrimony of the fluids, and partly from the blood being repelled from the surface of the body, and the accumulation of it in the larger vessels, where it acts as a stimulus. The pulse is seldom observed too slow, unless the mobility of the body be much diminished, as in decrepid old age, or from compression or diseases of the brain, &c. As long as the frequency of the pulse continues the same, its beats may be either fi\II, great, strong, and hard, or soft small, and weak. A full, great and strong pulse, takes place when the ventricle strongly and completely empties Itself; throwing out a great quantity of blood into the arteries, which fully distends them, and stimulates them to a stronger contraction. A pulse of this kind is common in strong, healthy men, and is seldom to be reckoned a symptom of disease. But should it be too strong, and strike the finger of the person who feels it violently and sharply, it is called a hard pulse, the hardness of which is produced by a sudden and violent contraction of the heart and arteries, which distends even the remote branches, as those of the wrist, too suddenly and smartly, and also ex- * Hectic fever is generally a symptom of some other complaint, such ai the green-sickness, king's evil, consumption, diseased viscera, &c. It is known by exacerbations at noon, but greater in the evening, witli slight remissions in the morning, after nocturnal sweats ; the urine de- posits a sediment (furfuraceo lateritious), accompanied with good ap- petite and moderate thirst.XXIV cites them "to sudden and violent contractions. A hard pulse, therefore, denotes too great an action of the heart and arteries ; and it may arise from varions causes. A small, weak and soft pulse, is generally owing to causes opposite to the former; audit indicates a contrary state of the circulation and nervous system. It frequently re- quires stimulants; but does not generally require blood- letting, nor can it easily bear it. The pulse is said to intermit, when the stroke does not return after the usual interval, and, perhaps, not till after twice, thrice or four times the usual space. This kind of pulse appears to be almost natural and constant in some animals, and is common to some men, even in the most per- fect health ; and should these be seized with a fever, the pulse sometimes becomes regular; nor can the disease b» reniov- ed before the intermission has returned. Moreover, there are many people in whom, though their pulse beat equally while in health, the slightest illness makes it intermit; and in others, such as hypochondriac and hysteric people, who liave a great deal of mobility in their constitution, the in- termission of the pulse is felt without applying the finger to the artery, merely by the uneasiness which they feel in their breasts daring those intervals in which the pulse is deficient. An intermitting pulse occurs in diseases of the breast, especially when water is collected within it; and also at the termination of all diseases, particularly of fevers, when the strength is neajly exhausted, and on the ap- proach of death, of which it is generally the forerunner. There are many other variations of pulse euinnerated by physicians, most of which, however, are cither uncertain ; or, from not being confirmed by experience, arc not to be depended on.XXV / DISORDERS OF RESPIRATION. Kespiration may be obstructed from various causes, seated either in the lungs tliemselves or the surrounding parts. But from vvliatever cause this obstruction may arise, it undoubtedly produces all those diseases which proceed from an interrupted circulation. The lungs themselves also being at length compressed, and not suffered suffi- ciently to dilate, cannot throw off the vapour which arises from them; hence they are frequently oppressed with moisture. At the same time they are irritated, so that a greater quantity of mucus, and that of a thicker kind than usual, is secreted; by which means the passages through which the air enters them, are stopped up, till a violent cough at length throws off the load. There are other dis- orders also of the respiration, such as cough and sneezing, which, though at first sight they may seem very dangerous, are not destitute of use, and may even be reckoned among the most salutary attempts of nature to relieve patient. Often, however, they are attended with danger^ or very great imeasiness ; namely, when they are either too violent or exerted in vain. It is necessary, nevertheless, for a physician to know the nature, causes, and effects of these, that he may be enabled to promote them when necessary, and to stop them when they are hurtful or useless, COUGH. Cough consists in a violent, frequently Involuntary, and sonorous expiration, suddenly expelling the air with great force through the glottis* somewhat contracted, the con- vulsion of the muscles serving for expiration gives a great force to the air, while the contraction of the glottis produces the sound. It is often long continued, being repeated at certain intervals, during each of which the inspiration is *Tlie »uperior opening of the cartilaginous cavity at tho bottom of the tongue, bxxvi imperfect and obstructed, by reason of the contraction of the glottis. Cough is excited by any kind of acrid sub- stance, either chemically or mechanically applied to those passages through which the air enters. These are lined with a membrane so exceedingly delicate and impatient of stimulus, that it cannot even bear the touch of the mildest substance, such as a small drop of water, without throwing the muscles, serving for respiration, into a violent conTul- sion ; the glottis, at the same time, contracting by means of the sympathy between it and the neighbouring parts. In this manner the air is thrown out with such violence, that it drives the irritating substance along with it; and thus a cough becomes not only useful, but absolutely neces- sary for the preservation of life, as being able to free the lungs from every kind of irritating substance or foulness, which might eventually bring on a suffocation. Hence a cough is almost an inseparable companion of every inflam- mation of the lungs, as well as of every difficulty of respi- ration ; and even frequently accompanies the entrance of the purest air, when the wind-pipe and air-cells of the lungs are excoriated, or become too sensible. Examples also are not wanting, where a violent and troublesome cough has arisen from an irritability of the nervous sys- tem, or even of some particular part, for instance, of the ear, stomach, and intestines, the liver by inflammation, &c. Coughing may also be voluntarily excited, and then may be managed at pleasure. Even when involuntary, it may be moderated, or supressed, by a contrary effort; thongh a violent fit of coughing cannot by any means be resisted. When once excited, the cough goes on until the irritating substance is expelled, or the sense of irritation annihilated, or perhaps overcome by some sensation more uneasy than the cough itself; after which the irritation again returning at a certain interval, the cough also returns. Hence we are taught a method of allaying and quieting this most troublesome malady, though frequently it is not in our power to remove the cause of it altogether. A very violent cough is often dangerous; for, by the retention of theXXVll breath, aud the strong efforts made in coughing, a great deal of blood is collected in the lungs, the vessels of which are frequently distended and sometimes broken; hence, not unfrequentlj a violent and sometimes fatal discharge of blood. It is, however, oftener the cause of a slower, though equally fatal disease. "What is more, a frequent and troublesome cough, without any great discharge of blood, or even without any at all,may injure the texture of the lungs to that degree, particularly sliould their struc- ture happen to be more tender than usual, as to lay the foundation of an almost incurable consumption. And, the passage of blood being impeded by long-continued and vio- lent coughing, it must necessarily flow through the veins to- wards the head ; hence redness and lividness in the coun- tenance, discharges of blood, palsies, apoplexies, arid sometimes fatal convulsions. Lastly, by a violent cough the abdominal viscera are compressed with remarkable violence ; and, if any part happen to be weaker than usual, a rupture, prolapsus of the womb, abortion, or si- milar accidents may happen. Even when the cough is more gentle, if it happen to be troublesome and frequent, although we have nothing of this kind to fear, still the pa- tient is by no means free from danger, as he is tliereby agitated, fatigued, has his constitution broken, is deprived of rest; lias a fever brought upon him; his lungs are shaken and irritated ; digestion and all the other functions are deranged, till at last the patient sinks under a com- plication of maladies, which but too often set the skill of medicine at defiance. (See Catarrh and Consumption, p. 107). . SNEEZING. Tliis affection is somewhat similar to cough, consisting of a very full inspiration, to which succeeds a most violent expiration, by which the air is driven out through the nos- trils with considerablf! force, sweeping the passage through them as it goes out. It is a convulsion much more violent than a cough; and is, besides, very difficult to be stopped b2xxviii when ouce a pl-opensity to it has taken place. It arises from irritation of the membrane (the schnciderian mem- brane) lining the nostrils, but rarely from sympathy with any distant part. As well as a cough, it is sometimes ser- viceable, though it is also sometimes projudical, for the reasons which have been already assigned. DISOBDERS OF DIGESTION. The affections we shall allude to under this head arer those arising from bad digestion, disordered motion of the intestines, and some of the principal secretions. The first of these are sometimes very troublesome, but seldom dan- gerous. The principal symptoms arc oppression, anxiety, pain at the stomach ; eructations, in consequence of air being extricated from the fermenting aliments, and irri- tating the stomach ; nausea and vomiting, from the irrita- tion and distension of the same organ ; the bowels sometimes too costive, and at other times too loose; a defect of nou- rishment ; general debility ; relaxation of the solid parts ; too great thinness of the fluids; all the functions deranged ; pain in the head ; vertigo ; syncope ; asthma ; palpita- tion; * great depression of spirits, especially if the patient has been of a peculiar constitution ; sometimes the gout; sometimes a dropsy, or a slow fever, which may prove fatal. (See Dyspepsy, or Indigestion, p. 126)._ COSTIVENESS. The motion of the intestines may be either too great or too little; hence, from one or other of these causes pro- ceeds costiveness, or its opposite, looseness. The former is frequently not to be accounted a disease ; but, where it is, it may arise from the structure of the intestines being injured, or fron> their being shut yp or obstructed by spasm or otherwise ; or from a deficiency of those humours which * AU of which sec under their reipective hcRdi.xxix moisten the intestines ; or, it may arise from mere debility, from palsy of the fibres, perhaps, or from a deficiency of the usual stimulus ; for instance, of the bile, or from too dry or slender a diet. The consequences of long-continued costiveness are, first, an affection of the alitnentary canal, and then of the whole body. The stomach becomes dis- eased, and does not digest the aliments properly ; the whole body is left destitute of its usual stimulus; the blood is corrupted, perhaps from the putrid matter contained in the intestines being resolved into it; the circulation through the intestines is impeded—hence frequent and irregular congestions, vaicus of the reins, piles, &c. "What is more, the intestines themselves, being overloaded, distended, and irritated by a heavy, acrid, and putrid load of aliment, or other matters, are excited to new and unusual contrac- tions, which, if they do not get the better of the obstruc- tion, bring on colic, iliac passion, inflammation, and gan- grene, fatal in a very short time. For other disorders of the alimentary canal, see Dyscnteiy, Tenesmus, Nausea and Vomiting, Iliac Passion, Cholera, Sec. Sec, under their respective heads, In the practical part of the work.XXX OBSERVATIONS ON THE MEANS OF PRESERVING HEALTH. HEALTH AND LONGEVITY, ETC. Having so far enumerated and explained some of the most important functions of tlie animal economy, as an in- troductory theory to a knowledge of the treatment of dis- eases, in a plain and familiar manner; I shall now, and previous to entering upon the practical part of my labours, offer a fevr observations on the means of preserving health, both for the management of valetuduiarians, and of those who may be desirous of obtaining long life and good health, ■by avoiding the causes of those diseases which the human species too often bring upon themselves. On this subject much has been written at almost every period since medi- cine first began to be practised : and although we cannot even here give an abridged view of the extensive inquiries that have been made on the subject, we must content our- selves with oflFering only a few general remarks. I. FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF VALE- TUDINARIANS, ETC. By the word " valetudinarian" is implied a sickly person, or one always anxious about his health. That part of the medical system which lays down rules for the preservation of liealth, termed, by modern physi- cians, Hygieina, is not to be strictly understood as if it respected only those people who enjoy perfect health, and who are under no apprehension of disease, for such seldom either desire or attend to medical advice, but is rather considered as relating to valetudinarians, or such as, though not actually sick, may yet have sufficient reason to fear that they will soon become so ; hence it is that the rulesxxxi most be applied to correct morbific or diseased dispositions, and to obviate various particulars which were shown to be remote or possible causes of diseases. From the way in which the several temperaments are commonly men- tioned by systematic writers, it would seem as if they meant that every particular constitution could be referred to one or other of the four ; but this is far from being the case, since by much the greater number of people have temperaments so indistinctly marked, that it is difficult to say to which of the temperaments they belong. When we actually meet with people who either have, 1st, Too much strength and rigidity of fibre, and too much sensibility ; 2nd, Too little strength and yet too much sen- sibility ; 3rd, Too much strength, and but little sensibility; 4th, or but little sensibility joined to weakness, we should consider such people as more or less in the valetudinary state, who require that these diseased dispositions should be particularly watched, lest they fall into those diseases which are connected with the different temperaments. FIRST CONSTITUTION. Those who have too much strength atid rigidity of fibre, and too much sensibility, being liable to suflfer from conti- nued fevers, especially of the inflammatory kind, their scheme of preserving health should consist in temperate living, both as regards diet and exercise; they should studiously avoid immoderate drinking, and be remarkably cautious lest any of the natural discharges be checked. People of this habit bear evacuations well, especially bleeding : they ought not, however, to lose blood but when it is really required that the quantity should be lessened ; because too much of this evacuation would be apt to reduce the constitution to the second-mentioned temperament, in which the strength is deficient, but where sensibility is redundant.xxxit SECOND CONSTITUTION. In this there is too little strength, andyet too much sensi- bility. Persons, therefore, of this habit of body are re- markably prone to suffer from painful and spasmodic diseases, and are easily ruffled ; and those of the softer sex, who have this delicacy of habit, are very much dis- posed to hysterical complaints. The plan here is to strengthen the solids by moderate exercise, cold bathing, "bark, and chalybeate waters ; paying particular attention to the digestive organs, to prevent the stomach, &c., from being overloaded with any kind of foulness, which may create wind, or irritate the sensible membranes of this viscus and the intestines, from whence the disorder would soon be communicated to the whole nervous system. Persons of this constitution should never take drastic purges or strong emetics, neither should they lose blood but in cases of ur- gent necessity. But a principal share of management in these extremely irritable constitutions, consists in avoiding all sudden transitions of every sort, more especially those which regard diet, clothing, and in keeping the mind, as much as possible, in a state of tranquillity ; hence the great advantage which people of this frame derive from the use of medicinal waters drank on the spot, on account of that freedom from care and serious business of every kind, which generally obtains in all the places planned for the reception of valetudinarians. THIRD CONSTITUTION. In this there is excess of strength, and but little sensibility, which does not appear to be remarkably prone to any dis- tressing or dangerous species of disease; it can hardly, therefore, be supposed, that persons under these disposi- tions will either of themselves give their attention to any particular kind of management, or have recourse to the faculty for their instructions. Such constitutions, however, it may be observed, bear all kinds of evacuations well,XXxili which they sometimes require, to prevent an over-fiilnesi, which might end in an oppression of the brain, or some other important organ. FOURTH CONSTITUTION. Persons of this habit of body, where there is weakness joined to much sensibiliti/, are exceedingly apt to fall into tedious and dangerous diseases, arising from a defect of power in the absorbent vessels, and from languor of the circulation in general; whence corpulency, dropsy, jaun- dice, and different degrees of scorbutic affection. In order to prevent these evils, or any other species of accumulation and depravation of the animal fluids, people of this constitution should use generous food, with active exercise ; taking care that none of the secretions, such as the bile, perspiration, &c., be checked, nor any of the natural evacuations interrupted. These temperaments bear purging well, and often require it, as also the use of emetics, which are frequently found necessary to supply the place of exercise, by agitating the abdominal con- tents, and are of service in preventing the stagnation of bile, or the accumulation of mucous humours, which hinder digestion, and clog the first passages. The free use of mustard, horse-radish, and similar kinds of dietetics, is serviceable in these torpid habits.—(See Dropsy, p. 216, and Jaundice, p. 257). PLETHORA. When the general mass of fluids is increased beyond what is conducive to the perfection of health, there arises what writers term plethora, which may prove the source of different diseases. When, therefore, this over-fulness begins to produce languor and oppression, timely care should be taken to reduce the body to a proper standard, by abridging the food, and increasing the natural dis- charges, using more exercise and less sleep.—(See Cor- pHlence, p, 211). But in opposite circumstances, wher«xxxiv the fluids have been exhausted, the prevention of further waste must be attempted by the nse of strengthening stomachics, nourishing diet, and abstaining from mental or bodily fatigue.—(See Atrophy, &c., p. 196). VITIATED FLUIDS. These are to be considered as tainted either with the different kinds of general acrimony, or as betraying signs of some of the species of morbific matter which give rise to particular diseases, such as the stone, scurvy, &c. ACIDITY OF INFANTS, ETC. During the state of infancy, there may sometimes be observed a remarlcable acidity, which not only manifests itself in the first passages, but also seems to contaminate the general mass of fluids. As this, however, originates from weak bowels, our views, when we mean to prevent the ill consequences, must be chiefly directed to strengthen the digestive organs, as on their soundness depends the formation of chyle ; hence small doses of rhubarb and the preparations of steel (either the natural water impreg- nated with the mineral or the muriate of ammonia and of iron, in doses of a few grains, according to the age of the child) are to be administered; and tlie diet is to be so re- gulated as not to add to tliis acid tendency; brisk exercise is also to be enjoined, with frictions on the stomach, belly, and lower extremities. When the fluids tend to the putrescent state—which shows itself by fetid breath, sponginess and bleeding of the gums, a bloated look, and livid cast—the diet should prin- cipally consist of fresh vegetables and ripe fruits ; wine in moderation, due exercise, and stiengthening bitters.—(See Dyspepsy, p. 126). Where acrimony shows itself by itch- ing eruptions, uncommon thirst, and flushing heats, no- thing will be more beneficial than the sulphureous and moff'at waters, using, at the same time, a course of diet that shall be neither acrid nor heating.XXXV SPECIFIC MORBIFIC DISEASES PREVENTED, ETC., Thus, then, with respect to those kinds of morbific mat- ter which do not invariably produce a specific disease : but there are others of a specific nature, some of which are generated spontaneously in the body, and which seem to arise from errors in diet, or other circumstances of ill- management with respect to the animal economy ; and hence it is sometimes possible, to a certain degree if not altogether, to prevent the bad consequences that usually result from them. For example, there are instances where returns of the gout have been prevented or retarded by strictly adhering to a milk diet.—Rheumatism has also been sometimes warded off by wearing a flannel shirt, or by an uninterrupted use of the cold bath.—Stone in the bladder, &c., may be retarded in its progress, and pre- vented from giving much pain by the internal use of soap and lime water, by soap lees taken in milk and veal broth, or by the use of aerated alkaline water; which may, perhaps, be considered as being both more safe and more eSicacious, and, at the same time, more pleasant than any of the other practices.—The scurvy may be prevented by warm clothing and perseverance in brisk exercise, by drinking wine or cider, and eating freely of such vegetable substances as can be obtained in those situations where this disease is most apt to show itself.—In constitutions where there is an hereditary dis- position to scrofula (king's evil), if early precaution be taken to strengthen the solids by cold bathing, nourishing diet, and the moderate use of wine, the constitution which gives rise to the disease will probably be prevented from producing any very bad effects. PHEVENTION of other KINDS OF MORBIFIC MATTER, ETC. There are other kinds of morbific matter, of the specific kind, received into the body by infection or contagion.—xxxvi The infection of a putrid fever or <lysenti7 is best pre- vented by taking an emetic on the first attack of the sick- ness and cold shivering which usher in these diseases; and should this not completely answer the purpose, a large blister may be applied between the shoulders; by this method the nurses and other attendants on the sick in the naval and military hospitals have often been pre- served. With respect to the infectious morbific matter, fcee Hydrophobia, Poisons, Gonorrhoea, Sic. FOUL STOMACHj FROM FILTH, SORDES, ETC. The ill effects that may arise from an accumulation of noxious matter in the stomach and first passages are to be obviated, generally, by the prudent administration of emetics and purgative medicines; abstaining, at the same time, from aliment likely to produce it. For example, crude vegetables, milk, butter, and other oily substances are to be avoided by persons troubled with sourness in the stomach; brisk exercise, especially riding on horseback, is to be used, and abstinence from all fermented liquors. Their common drink should be pure water, or water with a little rum or brandy in it. The Seltzer or Pyrmont waters are to be drunk medicinally; and aromatic bitters, infusions, or tinctures, acidulated with sulphuric acid will be serviceable, (see Indigestion, p. 126), in strengthen- ing the fibres of the stomach, and promoting the expulsion of its contents, thereby preventing the too hasty fermenta- tion of the alimentary mixture. In order to procure im- mediate relief, magnesia or prepared chalk may be used: the magnesia, as well as the chalk, may be made into lozenges, with a little sugar and mucilage; and in this form may be conveniently carried about and taken occasionally by people troubled with acidities in the stomach. In persons where there is a redundance or stagnation of bile, and an unpleasant bitterness in the mouth, the bowels should be kept freely open by taking occasionally smallxxxvii doses (from five to fifteen grains) of pure aloes, castor oil, cream of tartar, Epsom salts, or the natural purging waters.—Where there is a tendency to the empyreiimatic rancid accumulation in the stomach, all the various kinds of oily and higli-seasoned articles of diet, generally termed viade-dishes are to be avoided ; eating sparingly of plain meat, without rich sauces or much gravy ; in which cases the most proper drink is pure water. II. RULES FOR THOSE WHO ENJOY PERFECT HEALTH, EXCESS IN DRINKING, ETC. It has been well observed that " temperance is the best physic," although the ancient physicians did not hesitate to recommend occasional indulgence, and allowed people to exceed both in eating and drinking ; but it is safer, if any safety there be in danger, to proceed to excess in drinking than in eating; inasmuch that in the former, should the debauch cause any extraordinary or distressing degree of pain or sickness, and should a temporary fever ensue, it may, for the most part be shaken off, either by lying in bed, and encouraging perspiration; or, getting on horse- back, and using brisk exercise, to restore the body to its natural state. EXCESS IN EATING. Should a person commit an excess in eating, especially In high-seasoned things, with rich sauces, a draught of cold water acidulated with lemon juice or sulphuric acid, will take off the sense of weight at the stomach, and assist the digestive process by moderating and keeping within bound the alimentary fermentation, thus preventing the generation of too much wind. The luxury of ices may be of real service at the tables of the great, for producing similar effects to the acidulated cold water. Persona under these circumstances should not lay themselves down to sleep, but, on the contrary, keep up and use mo- <krate exercise, until they feel sensible of the stomachXXXVlll , being unloaded, and that they no longer experience any oppressive weight at the pit of the stomach. The stomach should always be allowed time to empty itself before we till it again. FASTING, ETC. If from necessity a man be obliged to fast, he ought, if possible, during that time, to avoid laborious work. After suffering from extreme hunger, people should not at once gorge or fill themselves ; nor is it proper after being over- filled, to enjoin an absolute fast: neither is it safe to in- dulge in a state of total rest immediately after excessive labour; nor suddenly to fall to work after having b6en long without motion ; in a word, ail changes should be gradually made ; for though the constitution of the Imman body be such that it can bear many alterations and irr*'gularitie9 without much danger, yet, wherever the transitions are extremely sudden, there is great risk of producing some degree of disorder. CHANGE OF SCENE, EXERCISE, ETC. We are advised by Celsus, in his writings, to vary the scenes of life, and not to confine ourselves to any settled rules: and as inaction renders thp body weak and listless, and exercise gives vigour and strength, people, according to their situation in life, shonld never omit riding, walk- ing, or going about in a carriage. Fencing, playing at tennis, dancing or other similar engagements, affording both exercise and amusement, as may respectively be found agreeable or cenvenient, are to be used in turn, ac- cording to circumstances and the tendency of any particu- lar species of disease. And when the infirmities of age have rendered the body incapable of enjoying these re- creations, dry frictions, with the flesh-bru.«h will be found an excellent substitute, to preserve health by accelerating the flow of humours through the smaller order of vessels,xxxix and preventing the fluids from stagnating too long in the cellular interstices of the fleshy parts. Sleep (see p. xix) is the great restorer of strength; as during this time the nutritious particles of the food appear to be chiefly applied to repair the waste, and to replace those that have been exhausted from the labour and exer- cise of the day; * but too much sleep has many incon- Teniences, both with respect to body and mind, as it blunts the senses, and encourages the fluids to stagnate in the cellular membrane; whence corpulency, and its inse- parable concomitants, languor and weakness. The proper time for sleep is night, when darkness and silence naturally bring it on : sleep in the day-time, from noise and other circumstances, is in general not so sound or refreshing; and to some people is really distressing, as creating an unusual giddiness and languor, especially in persons ad- dicted to literary pursuits. Custom, however, frequently renders sleep in the day necessary ; and in those constitu- tions where it is found to give real refreshment, the pro- pensity to it ought to be indulged, particularly in those ad- vanced in years. The lime requisite to restore the waste occasioned by the return of the day will depend on the activity of the habits, and on the health of the individual; it cannot in general be less than seven, and need not exceed nine hours.t *" Regular and sufBcient sleep serves, on the one hand, for repairing the Ids: powers, and, on the other, for lessening consumption, by lessen- ing vital activity. Hence the lives of people who are exposed to the most debilitating fatigue,are prolonged to a considerable age, when they enjoy sleep in its fullest extent.''—Struve's Asthenology, tivo. 1801, p. 199. + "All-healing sleep soon neutralises the corroding caustic of care; and blunts even the barbed arrows of the marble-hearted fiend—ingra- titude." " When the pulse is almost paralysed by anxiety, half an hour's re- pose, will cheer the circulation, restore tranquillity to the perturbed spi- rit—dissipate those heavy clouds of ennui, which sometimes threaten to eclipse the brightest minds, and best hearts.—Child of woe, lay thy head on thy pillow (instead of thy mouth to the bottle), and bless me for di- recting thee to the true source of Lethe—and most sovereign Nepentlik for the sorrows of human life."—(Pepiic precepts.)xl DIET, ETC. It lias always been an established rule with respect to ■ diet, that the softer and milder kinds of aliment are the fittest for children and younger subjects—that grown people should eat what is more substantial; and old people lessen their quantity of solid food, and increase that of their drink, both of tlie diluent and cordial kind : or, in the words of the poet, equally applicable to sleep, diet, &c " Pliant nature more or less demands As custom forms lier; and all sudden change She hates of haliits, even from barf Xogooc/, If faults In life—or new emerc[encies From habits urge you, by long time confined, Slow irtUst the change arrive, and stage by stage- Slow as the stealing progress of the year." Armstrong's Jrt of Preserving HeaUh,OBSERVATIONS ON SEA ATR, SEA SALT, SEA WATER, SEA AND VARIOUS OTHER KINDS OF BATHING, &e. SEA AIR is prescribed by physicians in a variety of complaints, in consequence of it being considered of a more healthy nature than that on land; though, in its component parts, it is not known to possess a greater quantity of oxygen, on which the salubrious pi^inciple de- pends. It is, nevertheless, acknowledged to be a most powerful and valuable remedy, and is resorted to with the happiest success against most cases of debility. As a discutient (substances which possess the power of repelling or resolving tumours), the peculiar power of sea tult and sea water is well known to be attended with con- siderable advantage, when judiciously applied. On Bathing generally, but more particularly under a restorative point of vieiv, Sfc. As a salutary gymnastic, bathing is held in high estima- tion ; and, as a pleasurable and agreeable recreation, its votaries, during the summer season, are numerous and con- stant, wherever opportunities are afforded for its free and uninterrupted exercise. Baths are distinguished into hot and cold, with inter- mediate modifications, and different modes of applying cxlii tlieni; aud are eitlier natural or artyicial. The natural hot baths are formed of the water of hot springs, of which there are many in difi'erent parts of the world ; especially in those countries where tliere are, or evidently have been, volcanoes. The artificial hot baths consist of water, either fresh or salt, in its natural degree of heat; or they may be made cold by art—as by a mixture of nitre and sal ammoniac, &c. The chief hot baths in our country, are those of Bath, Buxton, and Matlock; which latter, however, are rather -warm or tepid, than hot. The use of these baths is found to be beneficial in diseases of the head—as palsies, «&c.; in diseases of the skin—as leprosies, &c.; obstructions and constipations of the bowels; the scurvy, and in many dis- eases of women and children. DIRECTIONS FOR THE USE OF THE COLD BATH, &c. ' " Cold bathing has this good alone, It spurs old John to hug old Joan, And of the matrimonial two makes one." The cold bath, though popularly esteemed one of the most innocent remedies yet discovered, is not, however, to be adopted indiscriminately. On the contrary, it is liable to do considerable mischief in all cases of diseased viscera, and is not, in any case, proper to be used during the existence of costiveness, which should preriously be obviated by appropriate laxatives. As a preventive remedy for the young, and as a general bracer for persons of a re- laxed fibre, especially of the female sex, it fiequenlly proves highly advantageous; and, in general, the popular idea is a correct one, that the glow wliich succeeds the use of cold or temperate baths, is a test of their utility ; while, on the other hand, their producing chilliness, head-ache, &c., is proof of their being pernicious. Cold water is a powerful tonic, but, like all others, is liable to the same abuses, consequently, in this respect, capable of doing mischief.xliii The first action of cold is to produce a sudden torpor of the skin, and to determine the vohirae of blood from the external to the internal parts; hence if a person be dis- posed to inward bleedings, spitting or vomiting of blood, or apoplexy, the first application of cold to the skin, may produce the complaint. No one disposed to consumption ought ever to use the cold bath: in such cases, sea air and sea bathing— and SEA WATER Internally, accelerate the disease. All persons weakened by disease to a certain degree are in- capable of bearing the concussion of the cold bath; the utility of which arises from its secondary operation, e.g. the irritability is. accumulated in the vessels of the skin, which are stimulated to act more strongly ; the balance of blood is restored to the external surface, and kept up there; and a glow of heat ensues. Those disposed to gouty affections should not use the cold bath; by which is meant every degree of cold under 850, which always proves more or less tonic in its opera- tion. In many cases, where the patient is too weak to bear a bath of 40o, one of 65 acts like a charm: thus rheumatism is benefited by whatever strengthens the sys- tem, and particularly the skin; the first degree, i.e. 40o, will bring on the paroxysm, while a bath 65°, is an excel- lent preventive: hence the Matlock and Buxton waters are so useful. Cold water, as well from its tonic power as from its gravity, tends to remove the debility incidental to the in- habitants of cities and large towns, who breathe an im- pure atmosphere, give way to luxurious habits of living, or lead sedentary lives. By accelerating the motion of the blood, and promoting the different secretions, it braces and gives permanent vigour to the system—purposes w hich are conceived to be most effectually answered by the ap- plication of SEA "WATER, not Only oil account of its greater specific gravity, but also because it is a more powerful stimulant, promoting the discharge from the skin, and ren- dering people less liable to the influence of cold.xHv The diseases in whlc}> the cold salt water is most service- able, are those of the cachectic kind—in green sickness— profuse discharges—chronic inflammation of the eyes- aptitude to abortion—convulsions and rickets of children— in preventing the paroxysms of agues—in removing the debility consequent on febrile diseases, and the long-con- tinued use of mercury—in a variety of those chronic affec- tion?, termed " nervous complaints," &c., particularly when its salutary effects are assisted by the moderate use of wine, or such other aliment or medicines as are adapted to tlie age, sex, constitution and complaints of the patient. In scrofulous affections and the enlargement of bones or tendons, commonly called white swellings, sea air and sea bathing afford considerable benefit. -The internal use of sea water, although it has little or no effect on some dis- eases of the skin, removes worms from the intestines of children, and prevents their reproduction; but as children can seldom be prevailed upon to take a sufficient quantity of any nauseous medicine however beneficial, other mean* should be resorted to. Sea water is also usefiil in gravel— jaundice—fistula in ano—and is an excellent purgative, when taken in sufficient quantity, in paralytic complaints. The external use of cold water affusion is of singular use in the treatment of scarlet fever* at the commencement. It * Dr. Carrie mentions, in his Medical Reports, that he found the aflta- sion of cold water to extinguish incipient scarlet fever in repeated in- stdnces, so as to prevent either efflorescence or any affection of the tliroat from taking place. The plan followed by Dr. C, if he was called in at this early period, where the patient feels steadily hot, and the shivering having gone olT, was to strip him quite naked, ond to dash four or five gallons of the coldest water over his naked body; and the heat returning, Dr.C. adds, that it is sometimes necessary to use it ten or twelve times in twenty-four hours. During this time cold water and lemonade should be used as drinks, and the bowels opened, if necessary, by the submuriate of mercury. The affusion, in a few cases, he thought it advisable to assist by the diaphoretic power of a solution of farlarisrd antimony. Dr.C. adds, that, in 160 cases, he uniformly followed this prnt- ticc, and with " a degree of success so nearly invariable, that he eonld not contemplate it without emotions of surprise, as well .is of s.itisfaetion." Dnring the hot stage of scarlet fever he rrcommcnds sponging the body all over with cold water and vinegar, fcc.xlv is also beneficial wlien applied to particular parts of the body, where its use may be continued much longer than the cold bath, without danger. Cold affusions to the head are useful in many cases of those painful and local affections which are the result of intoxication ; and against too great a flow of blood towards the head, when persons are me- naced with apoplexy, or sudden death, from the rupture of a blood vessel of the brain. ADVICE TO BATHERS EITHER IN SALT OR FRESH WATER, &c. People of delicate constitutions, or those much weakened . from disease, ought not to bathe until the sun approaches near to his meridian height; and, indeed, with those who enjoy a tolerable degree of health, it may not always be proper to bathe immediately after rising from bed in the morning, a time suitable to some constitutions, although not to others. There are a variety of circumstances here which require consideration. In sultry moist weather, bathing should be discontinued ; and patients in particu- lar confined to their bed-chamber, with the windows of the apartment shut. A small clear fire would also be a recommendation, which, notwithstanding the state of the atmosphere, will not be found unacceptable to convales- cents. Nothing can be more improper or inconsiderate than to immerse or to plunge the body hastily into cold water after a meal, when the stomach is loaded with food. The process of digestion by such means is interrupted so as with difficulty to accomplish its object, independent of a variety of other inconveniences known to occur after such a premature step. People, therefore, of weak habits should stay until the digestion of their first meal is nearly per* fccted before they venture into the water. Bathing dresses are too well known to need any descrip- tion of them here ; thoy generally consist of porous flannel, open in front like a wrapper, with short wide sleeves, that the water may come in contact with every part of the body as speedily as possible. To convalescents, one plunge, c3xlvi or twa at the utmost, is sufficient; after which they should dr}' and dress as speedily as possible. On coming out of the water, particularly after sea bath- ing,wherethe air is keen and sharp, although the heat of the water is more uniform than in rivers, should chilliness or trembling come on, a small quantity of weak brandy and water, to which a few drops of the compound spirit of lavender may be added, nill be found to be the best re- storative—using a gentle degree of exercise. Other means may be used, should these prove ins^ufficient; such as put- ting the patient to bed, and procuring warmth, Jkc. The pleasing glow of heat diffused over the body, after cold bathing, is a proof that it may be continued with benefit. THE HOT EATII. , By a hot bath is understood any degree of heat between 9.^° and 96° of Fahrenheit. It has a peculiar tendency to bring on a state of repose, to alleviate any local irritation, and thereby to induce sleep; it promotes personal clean-- liness ; is excellent to children aflFected with convulsions; in diseases of the skin ; restores suppressed perspiration ; relieves gouty, rheumatic, and hectic patients ; and com- plaints in the region of the kidnies and loins. It is also used in the puffy swellings in the legs, and obstructions peculiar to females, &c. It is, upon the whole, a safer re- medy than the cold bath, and more peculiarly applicable to very weak and irritable constitutions, whom the shock procured by the cold immersion would overpower, and who have not sufficient vigour of circulation for an ade- quate re-action. In all cases, where the local formation of matter is the solution of the general inflanmiatory symptoms, experience directs the use of warm relaxing applications, rather than those which, by exciting a general re-action, would increase the local complaint. This object is particularly to be con- sulted when the part affected is one that is essential to life.xivii Hence it is that in fever, where there is a groat deternu- uation to the lungs, the respiration appearing to be locally affected, independently of the oppression produced by mere febrile increase of circulation, practitioners have avoided the external use of cold, in order to promote the solution of the fever, and have trusted to general antiphlo- gistic measures along with the topically relaxing application of warm vapour inhaled by the lungs. Warm bathing appears to be particularly well calculated to relieve those complaints which seem to depend on an irregular or diminished action of any paut of the alimentary canal ; and the state of the skin produced by immersion in warm water seems highly favourable to the healthy action of the stomach and bowels. Another very important use of the warm bath is in that species of eruption termed Herpes,* (see p. 285), by re- laxing the skin, and rendering it more pervious, and ad- mirably preparing it for receiving the stimulant applica- tions, of tar ointment, mercurials, &c., that are intended to restore it to a healthy state. The constitutions of children seem more extensively re- lieved by the warm bath than those of adults; and this remedy appears more generally applicable to acute fevers IB 4hem than in persons of a more advanced age. When the warm bath produces its salutary operation, it is almost always followed by an easy and profound sleep. In paralytic affections of particular part.«, the powerful stimulus of heated water is generally allowed ; and in these cases, the effect may be assisted by any thing which will increase the stimulating properties of the water, as, for instance, by the addition of salt. In these cases much benefit may be expected from the use of warm sea baths. The application of the warm bath to certain parts of the * DistingnUhed by an assemblage of numcro<is little creeping uloer.s, in clusters, itching very iniicli and difli-jult to heal, but terminating in furluraceons (branny) scales.xlviii body, e.g. the feet, often produces the most powerful effects in quieting irritation in fever, and bringing on a sound and refreshing repose. Tlie cases in which the warm bath is likely to be at- tended with danger, are particularly those where there exists a strong tendency to a determination of blood to the head ; and apoplexy has sometimes been thus brought on. The lowest temperature will be required for cutaneous complaints, and to bring on relaxation of the skin during febrile irritation; the warmer temperature in paralysis.— More heat should be employed on a deeply-seated than on a more superficial part. SHOWER BATH. This is a kind of cold bath, of modern invention, in which the water falls through numerous apertures on the body. It is applied, in every case, to the same purposes as the cold bath, and is often attended with particular advantages. 1st, from the sudden contact of the water, which, in the common cold bath, is only momentary, but which, in the shower bath, may be repeated, prolonged, and modified at pleasure; and, 2d, from the head and breast, which are exposed to some inconvenience and danger in the common bath, being here effectually secured, by receiving the first shock of the water. A proper apparatus for this purpose may be obtained at the shops. THE TEPID BATH. bath at about 90" is what we should term tepid. lu a medicinal point of view it produces the greatest effect in ardent fever, where the temperature is little above that of health, but the powers of the body weak, and not able to bear the vigorous application of cold immersion. In dis- eases of the skin, a tepid bath is often quite sufficient to produce a salutary relaxation, with pcrspirability on the suriace of the body. Dr. Saunders strongly recommendsxlix a tepid batb, or eveu one of a higher temperature in the time of hemorrhagia or obstructions of females. It is useful iu chronic rheumatism of internal parts ; in gout during the fit; also in head-aches, colds, and in inflammation about the head, inflammatory sore throat, &c. VAPOUR BATH. Tlie vapour bath forms a valuable remedy in a variety of cases. In most of the hot natural waters on the conti^ nent, the vapour bath forms a regular part of the bathing apparatus, and is there highly valued. In no country, however, is this application carried to so high an extent as in Russia, where it forms the principal and almost daily luxury of all the people, in every rank, and it is employed as a sovereign remedy for a great variety of complaints. The Hon. Mr. Basil Cochrane, some short time back, pub- lished a treatise on the vapour bath, from which it appears be has brought the apparatus to such perfection, that he can apply it to all degrees of temperature, partially or generally, by shower or by steam, with a great force or a small one, according to the particular circumstances under which pa- tients are so variously placed who require such assistance.* Connected with this article is the air pump vapour bath, or machine, to which the inventor has given this name. This apparatus has been found efficacious in removing pa- roxysms of the gout, and preventing their recurrence, in acute and chronic rheumatism, palsy, diseases of the skin, ulcers, lumbago, sciatica, &c. It has also been proposed in chilblains, leprosy, yaws, cramps, female obstructions, and dropsy, with every probability of success. MEDICATED BATHS. This description of baths are such as are saturated wilh certain mkrrrar, vegetable, and sometimes animal sub- • Sec Cochrane on Vnponr Bath.1 stances. Thus we liavc sulphur,* chlorine, and iron baths, simple or medicated, aromatic and milk baths. There is little doubt that such ingredients, if duly mixed, and a proper temperature given to the water, may, in certain complaints, be productive of effects highly beneficial- Water impregnated with the sulphate of iron will abound with the bracing particles of that metal, and may be useful for strengthening the parts to which it is applied, re-invi- gorating debilitated limbs, stopping various kinds of bleed- ing, restoring the menstrual and hemorrhoiiial discharges when obstructed, and, in short, as a substitute for the na- tural iron bath.t There are various other medicated baths, such, for in- stance, as those prepared with alum and qiiick-lirae, sal ammoniac, c&c , by boiling them together or separately in pure rain water. These have long been reputed as emi- nently serviceable in paralytic and all other diseases aris- ing from nervous and muscular debility. * See " The utility and importance of Fumigating Baths illustrated, by Jonatlinn Green, Esq." This gentleman has a commodinns and well fitted up establishment, in Bury-street, St. James's, for the application of vaponr baths, simple or medicated. In like manner a substitute maybe made for the salt water batli, liot or cold, by saturating the water with salt.li ELECTRICITY* AS A CURATIVE AGENT. Electricity is a property which certain bodies possess when nibbed, heated, or otherwise excited, whereby they attract remote bodies, and frequently emit sparks or streams of light. The efficacy of electricity in the cure of several diseases has been supported by many very respectable authorities. It has, for a length of time, been employed as a local and general stimulus; though, for the most part, in consequence of it being chiefly found in the hands of people little acquainted with the nature and extent of disease, the proper time of applying it, and the extent to which it ought to be carried, to constitutions in which it is likely to prove serviceable, it is adopted in the most absurd and contradictory manner possible, and not too without being accompanied with danger. When a person stands upon an insulated stool, and is charged with electricity, and this is gradually withdrawn, the pulse becomes quicker and the perspiration is in- creased. If sparks be drawn from a part, there is a glow of lieat, and often, if these be powerful, redness and in- flammation. Electricity is certainly a powerful stimulus to the nerv- ous system, but has all the bad qualities of a high excitant. If applied too strong, it exhausts the irritability, and thus it is that lightning kills ; if not applied sufficiently strong, * The ancients Gr»t obaerved this property in amber, which they colled Electrum and hence aroRC the word Electricity. Eleclrieitas, from elee- Irum, r]\eKrpov, from r]\^Klwp, the sun, because of its bright shining colour; or from tA/cw, to draw, because of its magnetic power.lii il ia of no sei vice whatever. It is recommended in torpor of the sanguiferous system ; in torpor of the absorbent ves- sels ; in palsy ; green sickness ; in paralysis of the optic nerve (gutta serena); a tendency to fainting; general de- bility ; certain spasms affecting particular parts, e.g. St. Yitns' Dance ; stiff joints, &c. In all these it is most effi- cacious, but it often fails when the disease is of long stand- ing. It succeeds most frequently in St. Vitus' dance, and is applied in this case either by drawing large sparks from the part affected, or by making sparks pass from one part to another ; and the quantity taken or given ought to be varied according to the disease. In palsy, electricians often draw short vivid sparks three or four inches long. This, in the generality of cases, does harm; it ought to be moderately applied; small sparks should be taken, and frequently repeated, from a given spot; viz. a pretty strong electric burst, not very vivid, so as to produce a considerable degree of excite- ment, or make small shocks pass from one part te another. Chlorosis (green sickness), which had for a time resisted sleel, has had the menstrual flow appear while rather strong shocks were passing from the pubes to the spine; but many cases of the same complaint have cot been in the least benefited. Paralysis has often been caused by it. Wherever there ia a tendency to apoplexy, great cau- tion should be observed in the application of electricity ; and ia no cases should it be applied to the head. A true apoplexy has been produced by it.DOMESTIC PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. OF INFLAMMATION. By the term "inflammation" is generally understood the state of a part in which it is painful, hotter, redder, and somewhat more turgid than it naturally is j which topical symp- toms, when present in any considerable degree, or when they alfect very sensible parts, are at- tended with fever or a general diseased action of the system. According to the late John Hunter, the sus- ceptibility of the human body for inflammation is of two kinds: the one 077^i?mZ—constituting a part of the animal economy, and beyond the reach of human investigation ; the other acquired —from the influence of climate, habits of life, and the state of mind over the constitution. And, as the first kind of susceptibility is innate, it can- not be diminished by art; but the second may be lessened by the mere avoidance >of the parti- cular causes on which it depends, B2 Many are the opinions that have been enter- tained respecting the nature of inflammation; on these, however, it is not our intention to dwell further than by observing, that when inflamma- tion is confined t© one particular part of the body, without affecting the system generally, it is called Phlegmonous or Local Inflammation; and when, on the contrary, it produces its effects over the whole system, it is known by the name of General or Erisipelatous Inflammation. OF PHLEGMONOUS OR LOCAL INFLAMMATION. By this species of inflammation is understood an inflammatory circumscribed affection of the skin and cellular membrane, with a swelling rather prominent in the centre, and of a bright red colour, attended with pain and distension, and in which any effusion that happens to take place is usually converted into (pus) matter. This kind of inflammation is caused by the ap- plication of stimulating substances, such as fire or burning; by external injuries, such as bruises^ wounds, overstretching or compressing the parts, by extraneous bodies, which, either by their form or bulk, produce irritation ; by the application of cold, and, in short, by any thing that determines an increased flow of blood to the part. It comes on with an itching, dryness, redness, increasedheat and circulation in the part affected, shortly succeeded by a circumscribed tumour, through which shooting and throbbing pains extend. When phlegmonous inflammation is consider- / able and runs high, the action of the heart and arteries is increased; the pulse becomes full, hard, and quick ', the skin dry and hot; there is great thirst present, and a feverish tendency comes on. Its common modes of termination are, by re- solution—thatis, when anaturalcureisperformed by all the symptoms first mentioned giving way, the state and texture of the parts remaining Entire j by SUPPURATION—when the serum or coagulable lymph of the blood, which may have been effused into the adjoining substance, has been converted into pus or matter, in consequence of which a ca- vity, termed an abscess, is formed; by gangrene —which is a mortification not yet actually formed, but coming on, being a state intermediate between the highest point of inflammation and sphacelation, which implies the total loss of life in the part, an absolute derangement of its struc- ture, the abolition of all its functions, without the possibility of its ever being restored to any service in the animal economy. Phlegmonous inflammation may also terminate by effusion and adhesion; that is, without ending li 24 in suppuration; the matter exuded, being fre- quently viscid, often uniting the neighbouring parts together in twenty-four or thirty hours. These are the ordinary modes of termination of this species of inflammation; but a fourth has been noticed, which is in schirrus—^which im- plies an indolent knotty hardness of the part, unaccompanied with any discolouration, but attended with shooting pains; the tumour, after a time, ulcerating and becoming cancerous. This termination however of inflammation is con- fined to glandular parts, and is most frequently met with in the breasts of females. SYMPTOMS DENOTING THE TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION IN SUPPURATION. When the patient is seized with repeated shiverings—when the fever and inflammatory appearance cease suddenly without any percep- tible reason—when, instead of acute pain, a heavy and dull uneasiness is felt in the afl^ected part—when the most elevated part of the tumour appears soft and white, while the other part of it has its redness increased, and when a fluctua- tion can be felt under the finger on pressure, we may infer that a termination in suppuration has ensued. The latter symptom, however, only oc- curs when the matter is near the surface; although5 a man possessing a nicety of touch may be able, in many cases, to detect the undulation of mat- ter, even when deeply lodged. In most instances of this description, the quick disappearance of the inflammatory symptoms, the repeated shiverings, and the sense of weight and coldness of the part, are the only obvious indications of matter being formed; but the patient being afterwards attacked with emaciation, night sweats, and other hectic signs, distinctly point out that there is somewhere a collection of hidden matter that cannot be de- tected by the tact however exquisite. SYMPTOMS DENOTING THE TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION IN GANGRENE OR INCIPIENT MORTIFICATION. These symptoms are, first, a sudden diminution of the pain and sympathetic fever; secondly, a livid discolouration of the part, which, from be- ing yellowish, assumes a greenish hue; thirdly, a separation of the scarf skin, under which a turbid fluid is elfused; and, fourthly, when swell- ing, tension and hardness, which characterise this species of inflammation, subside, while, at the same time, a crackling noise is felt on touch- ing the part, in consequence of air being gene- rated in the cellular member. A gradual abatement of the inflammatory6 symptoms, by a termination either in resolution or suppuration, may be considered as prognosti- cating a favourable issue. TREATMENT OF PHLEGMONOUS OR LOCAL INFLAMMATION, ETC. ETC. At the commencement of a phlegmon or boil, the best method is to attempt the cure by pro- curing, if possible, a resolution of the tumour; for this purpose, an early attention should be directed to remove the cause which has given rise to it, as well as to diminish the inflammatory disposition, either of the whole system or of the. particular part which may be affected. If the inflammation have been caused by some, foreign body, such as splinters, pieces of glass, thorns, &c., it ought to be removed as soon as possible, by inducing, if it cannot otherwise be conveniently extracted, a healthy suppuration. But, in cases of local inflammation, the inflamma- tory disposition may be moderated, if not entirely obviated, by draining a proper quantity of blood directly from the neighbourhood of the affected part, either by scarifying it with the point of a lancet, by cupping, or, what is more familiar with domestic practice, by the applica- tion of a sufficient quantity of leeches, promoting the flow of blood, after they have fallen off", by7 means of linen cloths dipped in warm water—re- newing them as fast as they cool. But when inflammation is deeply seated, which may always be known by the pain, it is advisable to have blood drawn from the system generally, by open- ing a vein or an artery—an operation that comes within the province of the surgeon, who will best know how to proportion the quantity necessary to be drawn off, by the age and strength of the patient, as well as by the severity of the symptoms. Si In inflammation of any of the external parts of the body, as well as in those of the head and chest, the frequent use of purgatives will be attended with a good effect; but in inflammation of the bowels, active and strong medicines ought to be administered with due caution—those of a mild nature, with emollient and laxative clys- ters, being preferable. In order to co-operate with the foregoing means in terminating inflammation by resolution, if it be possible to accomplish it in this manner, it will be advisable to use some discutient applications; as remedies of this kind are, in themselves, particularly in mild cases, sufficient to disperse commencing inflammation of the phleg- monous description. When there is any violent contusion or fracture, where a considerable de- gree of tension prevails, a poultice of rye meal.8 or crumbs of bread, moistened with Goulard's water, will be a proper application, which may be renewed two or three times a day, until the swelling and inflammation give way; but in a common boil, or where the part is so tender and painful as to be incapable of sustaining the super- incumbent weight of a poultice, pieces of soft linen, moistened in the following sedative lotion, may be applied: Take Carbonate of Ammonia t 1 ounce ; Distilled Vinegar 2 pints ; Or, The Viijegar may be added until tUe eflfervescence ceases. To four ounces of this mixture add the same quantity of alcohol and distilled water, mix them together, and use them as directed, by frequently applying them to the inflamed surface; or what is cheaper, perhaps equally efficacious, and more easily obtained, is the following: Take Muriate of Ammonia 2 drachms; Distilled Vinegar 4 ounces; Camphorated Spirit 2 ounces ; Solution of the Acetate of Lead J drachm. These remedies, it should be understood, are to be applied cold, equally with the poultices previously directed, and they are to be renewed as often as they become stiff, hard, or warm. As the application of cold is considered one9 of the most powerful means we possess of carrying off heat and subduing inflammation, it has been carried so far^ in some instances, that pounded ice and snow have been used for the purpose. When these are not to be obtained, pieces of soft Hnen, moistened in a sokition of nitre and muriate of ammonia, may be substi- tuted, or even simple cold water. When the inflammatory symptoms run so high as to affect the system, it is not unusual for a feverish disposition to prevail. In such cases some febrifuge medicine, as the following, may be taken every three or four hours ; viz.— Take Nitrate of Potass (Nitre) 2 scruples; Hot Water 8 ounces; Tartarised Antimony 3 grains ; Syrup of Violets 2 drachms : of which take two table spoonfuls for a dose. In the inflammations which attend compound fractures, swelled testicles, &c., the pain is fre- quently so violent as to deprive the patient of his natural rest. When this is the case, opiates may be given with advantage and safety, provided sufficient evacuations have been previously ob- tained, and that the costiveness always induced by opium be afterwards obviated by gentle aperient medicine. The dose may be from fifty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium to an B 510 adult, an hour or two before bed-time, and in a similar proportion to those of a younger age. Instead of the tincture of opium, children at the breast may take a small quantity of the syrup of poppies. But if, notwithstanding the preceding means, the tumour should show an evident tendency to suppurate, its progress must be hastened by .the application of bread and milk or linseed meal poultices. Before, however, the poultice be applied, the part affected should be well fomented with flannels wrung out of a warm de- coction or infusion of emollient herbs—such as camomile flowers, marshmallows, poppy heads, &c.; or, when these cannot readily be procured, the part may be fomented with warm milk and water, as hot as it can be borne, or eyen with warm water alone. When the suppuration is complete, and the tumour is soft to the touch, and the matter lies near the surface, it may be opened with a lancet at its most depending part, and the matter thus suffered to escape; observing to press the whole of it out. The wound afterwards may be dressed with dry lint, and a pledget spread with basilicon laid over all, when pus will form, and granulations of new flesh will fill up the cavity in the wound.11 When granulation is too languid, it may be forwarded by the same means which promote a favourable secretion of (pus) matter; viz. warm emollient poultices. When, on the contrary, the granulations are too luxuriant, forming irre- gular masses which project beyond the edges of the wound, it becomes necessary to destroy them, by touching them with the lunar caustic, or dressing them with the ointment * of the red oxyd of mercury or, by what is frequently of the same benefit, using a tight bandage. Although it has been customary to treat in- flammation terminating in suppuration in the manner just detailed, still, in the management of abscesses, it has lately been recommended, after the matter is evacuated, to bring the lips of the wound in contact by strips of adhesive plaster, then to apply a compress of two or three folds of soft linen, and to secure it there by means of a roller or bandage, of sufficient length, somewhat tightly applied. These dressings, at the same time, are to be kept constantly moistened with Goulard's lotion. By proceeding in this manner, instead of the usual way, the external air is effectually excluded—adhesion and obliteration of the sac will certainly be obtained—the health of the patient will not be at all injured, either by * See Ointments, in the Appendu,12 the quantity or the quality of the subsequent dis- charge, as the true skin approximates closely; and, when the cure is effected, there is no waste of cutaneous substance, which frequently renders the parts weaker than they were before j there will be no unseemly or puckered scars, so often ob- served on the site of large abscesses; and last, though not least, the curative process which, by the other means, might occupy several weeks, will, by this method, be effected in a few days. Should local inflammation threaten to termi- nate in gangrene, bark, opium, and ammonia are the sheet anchors; and, in this stage, surgical aid becomes indispensable, should it hitherto have been omitted. The objects then which are principally to be attended to in the treatment of phlegmonous or local inflammation, are—first, to endeavour to terminate it, by the means pointed out, in re- solution ; secondly, where resolution fails, to hasten the sup])urative process, by promoting the secretion of a healthy pus, which is of the con- sistence of cream, and nearly the same colour, by means of poultices, fomentations. Sec. &c.; granulation and cicatrization, under proper ma- nagement, will then follow, and a cure be effected. When gangrene is likely to ensue, from weak-13 ness occasioned by excessive discharges, the con- stitution must be supported with wine, bark, opium, and good hving. Internal gangrene, when it once takes place, is always fatal; it is only when it occurs externally that medicine can be of service, and even then it often fails. ON ERISIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION, ETC., VUL- GARLY CALLED ST. ANTHONY's FIRE. This is the second species of inflammation, and implies an inflammatory affection con- fined principally to the skin, when seated out- wardly, and to the mucous membrane when in- ternally, with hardly any evident swelling; being of a mixed red colour, readily disappearing upon pressure, but quickly returning again; the redness, not being regularly circumscribed, but spreading unequally, with a pain like to that of burning, which gives rise to a number of small blisters (which in unfavourable cases degenerate into obstinate ulcers); terminating usually by the fall- ing off of the scarf skin, and sometimes in gan- grene, but never in suppuration, unless combined with inflammation of the preceding species. Tlie treatment of this kind of inflammation is also different from the former. It more parti- cularly attacks those advanced in years, of a weak, irritable, and spare habit.14 It attacks the trunk of the body, but less fre- quently than the extremities. It is not uncom- mon to see infants attacked with it a few days after birth, making its appearance mostly about the genitals. The inflamed skin is very hard, and, to all appearance, very painful to the touch. The belly often becomes uni- formly tense, and spots indicating mortifica- tion are observed. It was the opinion of the late Dr. Underwood, that in this form of the disease, the inflammation frequently spreads to the intestines. There is another species of this inflammation, which most commonly attacks the trunk of the body, known vulgarly by the name of shingles *; which, instead of appearing in an uniform in- flamed surface, consists of a number of small pimples, extending round the body a little above the navel, and which, in a short time after their appearance, have vesicles foim upon them. Little or no danger attends this type of the inflammation, When it attacks the face, it comes on with chillness, succeeded by heat, restlessness and other febrile symptoms, with a drowsiness or tendency to sleep, or delirium, and a full and frecjuent pulse. At the expiration of two or three * A corruption of the French word ** cingle," which im- plies a belt.15 days, a fiery redness appears in some part of the face, which at length extends to the scalp, and then gradually down the neck, leaving a tume- faction in every part which the redness has occupied. The whole ultimately becomes turgid, and the eyelids so much swollen as to deprive the patient of sight. When the redness and swelling have continued for some time, blisters of various sizes, containing a thin, colourless, acrid fluid, come out on different parts of the face; and the skin on these places assumes a livid appearance; but in those not affected with blisters, the scarf skin, towards the termination of the disease, falls off in scales. The fever does not abate on the appearance of the inflammation on the face ; but, on the con- trary, increases as the latter extends, and both will probably continue for eight or ten days. The disposition to stupor and delirium, in the course of the inflammation, is sometimes so in- creased, as to destroy the patient between the seventh and eleventh days of the disease. When the complaint is mild, and not marked by a fatal event, the inflammation and fever generally cease by degrees without any evident crisis. This disease is very subject to be translated from one part to another, as well as from an ex- ternal to an internal surface, a circumstance which16 never occurs without the most imminent danger. In all such cases, as well as in many others which we purpose to allude to, in treating of various diseases, it becomes not only too serious a matter to be trusted to domestic medicine, but it even requires the utmost care and exertion of some respectable and duly-qualified medical or surgical practitioner. When this disease exists in the face to any considerable degree, there is great danger of its being carried to the brain. TREATMENT OF ERISIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION, ERISIPELAS, OR ST. ANTHONY's FIRE. Much diversity of opinion has prevailed, and still prevails, relative to the mode of treating this disease, which it would be difficult to reconcile. We shall therefore only offer a few obsers'ations on the mild species of it, when there may be no necessity for calling in professional aid; as, by attention to the following advice, the disease, in slight cases, may be carried off with perfect safety. The principal attention must be directed to the bowels, Avhich should be kept in a laxative state, by the use of gentle aperient medicines— such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, in small and repeated doses, &c., or the imperial, drink, made as follows:17 Take SuperUvtrite of Potass (Cream of Tartar) jounce; Lump Sugar 4 ounces; Hot Water 3 pints. This is als3 an excellent laxative beverage in inflammatory fevers, where great thirst prevails. At bed-time, the patient may take from ten grains to thirty of the compound powder of ipecacuanha (Dover's sudorific powder), drink- ing freely (but not immediately after taking it, lest it should occasion vomiting,) of weak wine whey, toast and water, or barley water, in which a small quantity of the nitrate of potass (nitre) has been dissolved, for the purpose of procuring a gentle perspiration. With respect to diet, animal food should not be indulged in—light puddings, sago, panado, &;c. are the most proper articles. There is one circumstance, which alone should weigh well with family practitioners, before they attempt the treatment of the severer forms of this disease—viz., when properly conducted, it not unfrequently proves a cure to disorders which have long and obstinately resisted every attempt to remove them. Of external applications we need say but lit- tle ; for, when the disease is only present in such a degree as to be a proper object of domestic treatment, no particular application is necessary;18 it being sufficient to defend the affected parts from the air, by some substance that will not adhere to them. Independent of this, the selec- tion of external applications, as well as of internal remedies, must be directed by the state of the system, and of the part affected. Solutions of lead, copper, or alum, are not to be employed, as they would prove injurious: oily applications seem to aggravate the parts; cooling lotions, nevertheless, have been employed with advantage in the following form: Take equal parts of Mindererus' Spirit (theacetated Liquor of Ammonia), or Muriated Ammonia dissolved in water, with the addition of a little Viflegar and Cam- phorated Spirit; Cloths wet with this mixture, and applied, are found to be very grateful to the patient's feel- ings ; but, if the disease be mild, and unac- companied with fever, it will be sufficient to keep the patient within doors, without confining him to bed. This disease never appears in aged people, nor in those who have lived freely, without denoting such a state of the system, as must exact all the assistance that can be obtained from judgment and experience. Its occurrence in youth and middle age is seldom dangerous, except when ac- companied with much fever, or when it extends over a considerable surface.19 PHRENSY, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN, ETC. Inflammation of the brain is characterised by strong fever, severe pain in the head, redness of the face and eyes, intolerance of light and sound, watchfuhiess and violent delirium. The causes which give rise to phrensy, or in- flammation of the brain, are those which directly stimulate the membranes or substance of the brain, or which increase the flow of blood in its vessels: for example—violent fits of passion; in- tense study; excessive venery; severe exercise; external violence of any kind, such as blows on the head, concussions, fissure or fracture of the skull; immoderate use of vinous and spiritous liquors; want of sleep; a long continued exposure to the heat of the sun; and the suppression of long-accustomed evacuations, as the piles, the menses, issues drying up; it is also preceded by acute fever, or some inflammatory complaint, &c. &c. The treatment of this disease is the same with that of inflammations generally; but in phrensy, or inflammation of the brain, the most powerful remedies are to be immediately employed. Large and repeated blood-letting is especially necessary, until fainting ensues, leeches to the temples, drastic purges, bathing the feet, shaving the head.20 blisters, cold applications, and opiates, with the antiphlogistic regimen (abstinence from animal or high seasoned food) strictly enforced.—^This is another of those complaints which, it may be superfluous to add, cannot rationally come within the range of domestic treatment. OPTHALMY, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE EYES. Inflammation of the eyes may proceed from two causes ; viz. from diseases of the eye or parts in its neighbourhood, or from diseases of the system. Among the various causes producing- inflam- mation of the eye are, external injuries, such as blows, bruises, and wounds of the organ itself j extraneous irritating bodies introduced under the eyelids j exposure to bleak winds and cold; little inflammatory tumours, called styes, which arise on the eyelids; various acrid fumes, such as the smoke of pit-coal, of wood, turfj &c.; too liberal a use of vinous and spirituous liquors j the suppression of accustomed discharges; the long application of strong light, or fixed atten- tion to minute objects, and an acrimony prevail- ing in mass of blood, &c. It may also arise as a consequence of other diseases, such as measles, small-pox, scurvy, scrofula (king's evil), vene- real complaints, &c.21 Common inflammation of the eyes usually comes on with a sensation as if some gritty particles had insinuated themselves under the eyeHds, accompanied with great heat, redness, and pricking or darting pains. As the inflamma- tion increases, the parts swell, and the vessels of the eye not only hecome increased in size and turgid, but appear more luminous than in the natural state. Great pain is caused by the least motion of the eyeball; the patient cannot bear the Hght, and an effusion of tears ensues, which is of so acrid a nature as to excoriate every part on which it happens to fall. When the inflam- mation runs high, a disposition to fever often at- tends. After some days' continuance, these ap- pearances gradually abate, and at length ulti- mately cease; but in some cases a discharge of thick glutinous matter comes on, which collects in considerable quantities, particularly during sleep, about the angles of the eye. An affection of one eye only is often succeeded by an inflam- mation of the other, more especially in scro- fulous habits. ITiis form of inflammation of the eye, when it is not a consequence of other diseases, will rea- dily give way to proper means. To abate the inflammation and irritation, it is customary to have recourse to the frequent ap-22 plication of some cooling and astringent wash, applied by means of eye-glasses, or wet pledgets of soft linen. Any of the undermentioned may be used for this purpose : Take Sulphate of Zinc (White Vitriol)-; Superacetate of Lead (Sugar of Lead), of each ...... 8 grains ; Distilled Water, or Water that has boiled and been left to cool ^ pint: OR, Alum 30 grains; Rose Water G ounces: OR, Rose Water 3 ounces; Solution of the Acetate of Lead 18 drops. To any of these applications, when the pain is very acute, thirty, forty, or fifty drops of the tincture of opium may be added j or the eyes may be frequently washed with a decoction of bmised poppy-heads ; taking a quarter of a grain of opium internally every four or six hours. The alternate use of cold and warm applica- tions has sometimes succeeded, where neither of them singly appeared capable of arresting or putting an end to the diseased action. In inveterate cases, bleeding from the arm or temporal artery, and leeches to the temples, duly repeated, with purgatives, emetics, and fomenta- tions may be employed; and,should the symptoms not yield to these measures, it will be proper to apply a blister to the nape of the neck, or behind23 the ear of the affected side, which ought to be kept open for some days, by being dressed with stimu- lating applications, such as the savine ointment, or cerate of Spanish flies. In cases that appear to be constitutional, or kept up by some acrimonious humour in the habit, an issue between the shoul- ders, or a seton in the neck will be advisable. When, in the first instance, the inflammation has been caused by some extraneous body getting into the eye, for instance, particles of sand, dust, lime, small flies, the hairs of the eyelids, &c., they should be immediately removed; the part guarded from the light by means of a deep shade of green silk, and an obscure light admitted into the patient's chamber. It may not be out of place here to repeat, that bleeding and purging, where the inflamma- tion and irritation run high, should go before every other means ; repeating the former, should it be necessary, every fourth day; and the latter at proportionate distances of time, either by means of calomel and jalap, (five grains of the former to fifteen of the latter), or by a solution of Epsom salts, in the usual dose, or combined with an infusion of senna. If the complaint have arisen from cold, or other causes suppressing perspiration, the patient will receive benefit by taking something to restore24 this evacuation. Putting the feet in warm water may also be resorted to, for the same purpose. If the inflammation be dependent on a venereal taint, mercury must be relied on for its removal. Where the eyelids, in inflammation, are apt to be glued together, particularly during sleep, by a glutinous secretion, this inconvenience may be obviated by anointing the edges v,ith any of the following ointments going to bed at night, or every night and morning; viz.— Take Prepared Tutty 1 dracUm; Spermaceti Ointment 1 ounce: OR, Prepared Lard, i. e. such as is sold in the shops 1 ounce ; Sulphate of Zinc, finely powdered .... J drachm: on, Cerate of Lead. These observationsmay suffice for the less severe cases of opthalmy, or inflammation of the eye; but where the symptoms do not soon and readily yield, proper advice should be instantly applied for. INFLAMMATION OF THE EAR—EAR-ACHE. Inflammations of the ear have theij causes with those of other inflammations, but in none more readily than a partial exposure to cold, by sitting in draughts, &c. Although, for the most part, they are unaccompanied with fever, the25 sufferings of the patient are sometimes very great, and, in some instances, attended with most formi- dable appearances, even with a fatal termination. While this complaint is merely a local affec- tion, local remedies alone are necessary, with the exception of pm-gatives, for the purpose of dis- lodging the contents of the bowels. Local bleed- ing, by means of leeches, the application of a blister, and warmth by the foot-bath, are the means chiefly to be relied on, if from inflamma- tion. When purulent matter discharges from the ear, cleansing injections are to be used—which may be composed of soap and water; tincture of aloes and water ; or barley-water, with the honey of roses and tincture of niyrrh ; or the Peruvian balsam, united with a treble proportion of ox- gall ; a small quantity of which may be dropped into the ear. If pain in the ear proceed from living insects having entered the auditory passage, they may be destroyed by blowing in the smoke of tobacco from the end of a pipe, and then they may be removed by pouring in warm oil. When hard substances get into the ear, they are to be ex- tracted by proper instruments, if too firm to be dissolved by emolHent injections. Pains in the car, occasioned by colds, require c26 mild diaphoretics, (medicines which promote perspiration), and the patient to be kept warm : poultices of bread and milk, with roasted onions, will be of service. Should the disorder not yield to these measures, the patient should lose some blood, apply a blister behind the ears, and take a composing draught or pill going to bed. The rheumatism may sometimes produce these complaints : a bladder, filled with warm water, and applied as warm as it can be borne, will be of use; also camphorated spirits rubbed behind the ear. A noise in the ear may be relieved by passing the vapour of aromatic plants into it through a funnel, or by introducing a few of the following saponaceous drops into it, viz.— Take Oil of Almonds; Spirits of Compound Lavender; Tincture of Castor—of each '. 1 drachm: Mix. If the pain in the ear be merely spasmodic, or arising from a defluxion of acrid matter into its cavity, cupping and bleeding the back of the head will be beneficial; putting into the ear, at the same time, dossils of lint or cotton, dipped in the oil of almonds, to which a little of the oil of amber and tincture of opium may be added.27 INFLAMMATORY SORE THROAT. The causes which generally give rise to this complaint are, exposure to cold, either from changes in the weather, from being placed in a partial current of air, wearing damp linen, sitting in wet rooms, or getting wet in the feet, coming out of a heated or crowded room suddenly into the open and cool air—all of which may give a sudden check to perspiration. It may also be occasioned by violent exertions of the voice,, blowing wind instruments, acrid substances irri- tating the fauces, (cavity behind the tongue), and by the sudden suppression of any accustomed evacuations. It differs from the malignant or putrid sore throat by not being contagious, and by princi- pally attacking the youthful and those of a full and plethoric habit, and is chiefly confined to cold climates, occurring usually in spring and autumn; whereas the malignant sore throat is contagious, and chiefly attacks those of a weak irritable habit, and is most prevalent in warm climates. Many people are so strongly predisposed to this complaint, as to be attacked with it from any considerable application of cold beyond what they are habitually accustomed to. c 228 Treatment.—In the treatment of this com- plaint, if the inflammation run high, the pulse be quick and hard, with difficulty of breathing, 12 or 14 ounces of blood ought to be draw from the jugular vein, (supposing the patient to be a grown person), in preference to the arm; but if the symptoms do not run high, it will be sufficient to draw blood by applying several leeches under the ears, particularly on the affected side. At the commencement of this disease, and be- fore fever sets in violently, an emetic, given in time, often proves useful, and not unfrequently checks its complete formation. The bowels must be kept free by the occasional use of ape- rient medicine. Where the inflammation is severe, the early application of a blister or a mustard poultice round the throat, or to the back of the neck, has been attended with the most decided benefit; but in slight cases it may suffice to rub the parts twice or three times a-day with some camphor liniment, putting a piece of flannel round them afterwards. It is also of service in this complaint to wash the mouth and fauces with mildly-astringent gargles, somewhat sharpened with some acid j and also to scrape and cleanse the tongue.29 GARGLES. Take Confection of the Red Rose 1 ounce; Boiling Water * pint; Diluted Sulphuric Acid 1 drachm: OR, Barley Water 6 ounces; Honey of Roses 1 ounce ; Diluted Sulphuric Acid 45 drops: Or a gargle for domestic purposes, and one sometimes equally efficacious, may be made of sage tea and honey, with the addition of a little vinegar. Frequently inhaling the vapour of warm water and vinegar greatly assists the effects of gargres3 which may be done by means of an inverted funnel. ' ' Should the inflammation not resolve, and threaten to terminate in suppuration, this pro-^ cess ought to be hastened by the frequent appli* cation of warm fomentations and poultices to the throat, and the patient directed to receive the vapour of warm milk and water into his throat several times in the course of the day, and to use warm gargles, composed of a decoction of figs and barley-water. When matter is formed, if the tumour does not readily burst, a lancet should be applied to it. In this stage of the disease there is the greatest danger, in consequence of the passage to the stomach and lungs being so closed by the si^e and pressure of the tumour, that the80 patient's life is endangered from suffocation, or the want of nourishment, which must be reUeved by efficient means, within the province of the sur- geon. Care should be taken not to catch fresh cold during the existence of this complaint, Otherwise it may terminate in pleurisy. THE MUMPS. This disease chiefly affects the children of the lower orders ^ it is generally infectious, and ma- nifestly contagious. It is known by an external moveable swelling, arising most commonly on both sides of the neck, but in some instances confined to one. The swelling usually continues to increase until the fourth dayj from that period it declines, and, in a few days more, goes off entirely, when the disposition to fever also subsides. As the swelling of the throat disappears, it not unfrequently happens that some tumours affect the testicles in the male sex, or the breasts in the female, but these also, for the most part, go away in a few days. There is seldom, however, much to be appre- hended from this disease, unless the brain or its membranes be affected. It does not often re- quire the assistance of medicine j and all that is in general requisite is, to keep the head and face31 warm, to guard against taking cold, and to open the bowels with the mildest cooling laxative me- dicines. But should the tumour in the neck suddenly disappear, and the febrile symptoms increase, its return must be promoted by warrn fomentations and stimulating liniments : for in- stance, the strong liniment of ammonia; taking internally one of the following powders every four hours to abate the fever, viz.— Take Nitrate of Potass (Nitre) 1 drachm ; Tartarised Antimony 1§ grain : Mix them together, and divide them into six powders. Should the testicles be affected, and are much swollen, suppuration must be prevented by all possible means, by bleeding generally and locally, purgatives, cooling discutient applications, and the parts suspended in a bag truss, or handker- chief. The same means are to be adopted when the female breast becomes hardened and sw.elled from a retrocession of a tumour in the neck. PUTRID SORE THROAT. This disease arises from a peculiar or humid stat^ of the atmosphere, and so becomes gene- rally infectious, It principally attacks children, and those of a weak or lax habit, and is most32 prevalent In autumn and the beginning of winter. It may also be produced by contagion, as it has been known to run through a whole family when once it has seized one of its members. It often proves fatal, particularly to children. In some instances, it is so combined with scarlet fever, that it is difficult to determine of which it most partakes. In this respect, however, there is no- thing of any material importance, as both diseases require the same treatment. It also not unfre- quently attends on measles, which are of a malig- nant nature. The symptoms of attack of putrid sore throat are cold shiverings, anxiety, nausea, and vomit- ing, succeeded by heat, restlessness, thirst, general weakness, and oppression at the chest: the face looks flushed, the eyes are red, and there is a sensible stiffness in the neck, with hurried breathing, hoarseness, and soreness in the throat. It generally arrives at its height about the fifth or sixth day, and, in cases which terminate fa- vourably, it declines in five or six. When the complaint first sets in, there is a considerable degree of fever and inflammation of the throat. About the second or third day, large patches, of a dark red colour, appear about the face and neck, which, by degrees, spread over every part of the body. These, however, disap-33 pear in about four days, without any abatement of the symptoms. The whole neck sometimes swells, and assumes a dark red colour. In the worst of cases, the inside of the throat appears quite black and deeply ulcerated, spreading to the intestines, and ultimately ending in gan- grene. The treatment of putrid sore throat differs from that of the inflammatory by not bleeding either locally or generally, nor in using strong purgative medicine; as a looseness, even arising spontaneously, always does harm, and often provies fatal. The bowels, nevertheless, must be kept open, or rather their contents expelled by gentle aperients and clysters, when nature is de- fective. If active purgatives are ever necessary in this complaint, they can only be so at the commencement and at the termination of those cases where, notwithstanding the healthy appear- ance in the throat, with an abatement of all the febrile symptoms, still the belly is swollen, from a collection of putrid matter that has accumulated in the intestines. At the commencement of putrid sore throat, a gentle emetic of from 15 to 30 grains of the powder of ipecacuanha, or 15 grains of it with one grain of emetic tartar, has been found ser- •yiceable; and, in some cases, during the first c 534 twenty-four hours, will cut short the progress of the disease. When the symptoms are moderate, and when the ulceration is slight, a gargle made of a pint of sage and rose tea, three spoonfuls of Vinegar, and one spoonful of honey has been found as efficacious as any other of the antiseptic gargles, containing ritiineral acids. The following 15 Dr. Fothergill's gargle : Barley Water, 12 ounces, to which, during ijie time it boils, add Contrayerva Root, bruised, ^ ounce: Strain the liquor and mix with it— White Wine Vinegar 2 ounces ; Tincture of Myrrh 1 ounce; Honey 6 drachms. In this disease the putrescent tendency of the whole system should be guarded against by giv- ing the Peruvian bark in substance from the com- mencement, continuing it throughout the course of the disease, as much as the patient's stomach will bear J namely, half a drachm or two scruples every hour *. Stimulant tonic and astringent gargles, such as the following, are highly serviceable: , * As children are more frequently the subjects of this complaint than grown people, it is often difficult to pre- vail on them to take a sufficient quantity of this necessary and valuable, though rather nauseous medicine. In these cases, clysters with powdered bark have been used with ^rcat success. For this purpose, two drachms of the fine powder may be thrown up as a clyster, in five or six ounces of barley water, every three or four hours, to very young35 Take bruised Capsicum Seeds ^ drachm; Barley Water 7 ounces ; Honey of Roses 3 drachms ; Tincture of Myrrh 5 drachms : To be used frequently :— OR, Tincture of Capsicum ~. 2 drachms; Clarified Honey i ounce ; Tincture of Myrrh 5 drachms; Distilled Water 7 ounces: OR, Infusion of Roses Bounces; Tincture of Myrrh 1 ounce ; Diluted Sulphuric Acid .. ., 1 drachm : To be used frequently :— OK, Soft Extract of Bark 1 drachm ; Red Port Wine 7 ounces. Inhaling the steam of hot water impregnated with myrrh, camphor, and vinegar may also be had recourse to j should a looseness come on which is not critical, opium and astringents are directed, of which the following are some of the best forms of giving them combined : Take Chalk Mixture* Bounces; Ipecacuanha Wine Ij drachm; Tincture of Ginger ,. .« J ounce : Make a mixture :— children; and half an ounce or six drachms to children of eight or ten years old, in three quarters of a pint of barley water. If the first clyster come away too speedily, two or three grains of opium may be added to those wlilch follow, * See Mixtures, in the Appendix.36 OR, Chalk Mixture 8 ounces ; Aromatic Confection l§draclini; Tincture of Opium 30 drops : OR, Chalk Mixture 6 ounces; Compound Tincture of Cardamoms .. 1 ounce; Syrup of Ginger I ounce ; Tincture of Opium J drachm. Of any of these mixtures three table-spoonfuls may be given every two, three, or four hours, or after every purging stool; and the opium, when used, increased if necessary. Mulled port wine, or pure port, or diluted brandy should be frequently administered where the symptoms run high 5 and, as the disease ad- vances, the patient's strength must be supported by diluted wine, with sago, arrow-root, tapioca, &c. &c.; for ordinary drink, wine whey, or negus acidulated with oranges and lemons. The patient's chamber should be kept cool, the floor often sprinkled with vinegar, air freely admitted, and fumigated by casting powdered nitre over a chafing-dish containing live coals; all sources of putrid effluvia should be removed, the stools re- gularly taken away, and the patient's linen fre- quently changed. A change of air is often ne- cessary after the attack.37 CROUP. This disease generally creeps on in an insidi- ous and almost imperceptible manner, beginning first with a hoarseness and wheezing, short dry cough, and sometimes a rattling in the throat when asleep; among the other symptoms cha- racterising this disease, the most conspicuous is, that of the voice in speaking, and in coughing, ac- quiring a shrill and peculiar sound, similar to the crowing of a cock, or to the noise made by a fowl when caught in the hand. It most fre- cjuently terminates fatally about the fourth or fifth day, M'hen the patient expires from suffoca- tion. The croup is mostly confined to children be- twen the age of three and thirteen years; and prevails most in low and moist situations, and on the sea-shore. Any thing causing inflamma- tion may bring it on; it is supposed to be con- tagious, and prevails epidemically. This disease may be distinguished from the convulsive asthma of children by the following signs :—In croup, the cough is frequently singing in our ears, whereas in the latter there is little or no cough. In the first there is seldom or ever any remission, whereas, in the convulsive or aojtc asthma, this is one of the most striking:38 phenomena of the disease, and it is attended with some evacuation, such as belching, vomiting or purging. In croup, the pulse is strong, with much febrile heat, the urine is high coloured, and the voice shrill and small. In the convulsive asthma, the pulse, though perhaps equally quick, is less full, the urine is limpid, and the voice is croaking and deep. The treatment adopted in this disease is the same as obtains In all those of the inflammatory kind. Early bleeding from the jugular vein, and by the application of leeches to the windpipe, &c. Emetics in full and nauseating doses, espe- cially ipecacuanha, squills, or tartar emetic. Immediately after bleeding, it will be proper to apply a large blister across the throat, from ear to ear,—keeping it open after it is removed, by dressing the part with savine cerate. After this a gentle emetic is recommended; viz.— Take Ipecacuanha Wine | ounce; Oxymel of Squills 3, drachms : Of which give the patient a tea-spoonful often :— A tea-spoonful to be given often, until nausea or Great relief will be afforded by this means, OR, Tincture of Squills Oxymel Distilled Water .. IJ drachm; 5 drachms; 11 ounce. vomiting be promoted.39 in consequence of which a considerable quantity of ropy matter will be brought off. Purgatives of neutral salts, or submuriate of mercury, are to be given occasionally. Take Sulphate of Magnesia (Epsom Salts) .. 3 drachms ; Infusion of Senna (SennaTea) I2 ounce; Syrup of Roses 2 drachms : Make a mixture, and give a table-spoonful as may be required. In all cases of croup, the child must be kept nearly upright in bed, to guard against suffoca- tion. Brisk purgatives, in which the submuriate of mercury (calomel) may be an ingredient, when the bowels are inactive, are proper; viz.— Take Submuriate of Mercury 3 grains ; Jalap 4 to 8 grains : OR, Rhnbarb, in powder 6 grains ; Calomel 2 grains. Strong decoction of snake root, frequently taken into the mouth in small quantities, has been suc- cessfully used to promote a separation of the films and coagula that form and adhere to the windpipe and cells of the lungs, where it has been thought the inflammatory affection in croup is chiefly confined, although the late Drs. Baillie and Cheyne have asserted the contrary. When the child is threatened with suffocation40 it will be right to excite sneezing, by introducing strong snufF, or the compound asarum powder, up the nostrils by means of a quill ; as well as to cause vomiting, by a solution of emetic tartar or of sulphate of zinc, if the patient can swallow. PLEURISY. This disease is commonly ushered in with chills, shiverings, and the usual symptoms of inflammatory fever, accompanied or followed by a sense of weight in the chest, which, in a few hours, becomes acute pain, raised to the side, at about the sixth or seventh rib, and shortening from thence to the breast-bone or that of the shoulder. Cough comes on—the breathing is extremely anxious, and the pain in the side is increased on inspiration—the patient cannot lie on the affected side—the pulse is frequently hard, and contracted, and vibrates under the finger like the tense string of a musical instrument—the tongue is white—urine high coloured, Sec. It mostly terminates by resolution; that is, it goes off spontaneously, particularly after a free use of the lancet: this result is known by a free expectoration, cessation of the pain, and the symptoms gradually giving way. Where this is not the case, it produces Inflammation of the41 Lungs; to which complaint the causes, signs, and treatment of Pleurisy are similar. INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS. This complaint is known by a great load and oppression at the chest, difficulty of breathing; sometimes the patient cannot breathe but in an upright posture ; the breath is hot, attended with cough and fever, the face is swelled and of a livid colour. The cough is commonly moist, and the phlegm frequently streaked with blood, the pain not so superficial, nor the pulse so full or hard as in pleurisy, though the difficulty of breathing, anx- iety, and oppressive weight are more distressing. If the urine deposit a white and uniform sedi- ment, it is a favourable symptom, and promises safety to the patient and shortness of the disease; and so does a red sediment, which gradually changes to a white, or turbid urine, depositing a copious sediment j as well as an early appearance and continuance of what is called an erisipelatous blush, or a miliary enip- tion. The treatment consists in bleeding, at the commencement, from a large orifice, and to re- peat it according to the exigency of the symp- toms 3 but great care and attention are required42 with regard to this operation j for, if the habit of body be strong, the pulse full, firm and hard, it may be repeated with safety; otherwise great caution is requisite, lest, by an unnecessary re- petition, we do irrecoverable injury* Leeches or cupping-glasses may be applied over the seat of the pain, and the following purge given at the commencement: Take Submuriate of Mercury 5 grains ; Conserve of Hips, the same quantity:. Make a pill, to be taken immediately; after which the following draught: Epsom Salts 3 drachms ; Senna Tea .. 2 ounces ; Syrup 1 drachm. As it will be necessary to keep the bowels gently open, from time to time, the above draught may be given, either once, twice, or three times, in proportion to the effects it may produce. To promote expectoration, which should be forwarded by every possible means, and to de- termine a gentle perspiration to the surface of the body, any of the following may be given ; viz.— Take purified Nitre 1 drachm; Oxymel of Squills 3 drachms : Make a mixture, and take a tea-spoonful often, or when the cough is troublesome :43 Oil of Almonds; Syinp ofTolu—of each 1 ounce ; Spermaceti, beat up with a solution of Gum Arabic, or the Yolk of an Egg; Confection of Dog Roses, or Hips .... Jounce: Mix them up, and let the patient take a little fre- quently : OR, Antimonial Powder .;.. grain to 3 grains; Confection of Roses 10 grains : Mix for a bolus, to b,e taken every three hours :— OR, James's Powder 4 grains for a doSe. Bathing the feet every night in warm Water will be of service ; and, when once expectoration has copiously appeared, caution must be ob- served in promoting purging, as this, as well aS blood-letting, would tend to check it. At this period of the disease, costiveness should be re- moved by clysters or gentle aperients. A large blister, as the first proper step, may be applied over the seat of the pain, and, should it show a disposition to heal up soon, a fresh one ought to be applied somewhere in its immediate neighbourhood, so as to keep up a constant effect; a method, in this instance, preferable to keeping up a discharge from the surface of the old blister, by means of stimulating ointments, as is too frequently practised. Blisters may be used in any stage of the disease; and in many44 cases, where blood-letting cannot be carried far enough, or even not resorted to at all, and in the pleurisies of old people, are very beneficial. At the commencement of this disease, opiates would evidently be injurious, by interrupting the expectoration, and, therefore, should not be given until previous bleeding and blistering have greatly relieved the pain and difficulty of breathing. In the more advanced stage, where a cough is the only urgent symptom, and proves the principal cause either of the continuance of pain or of the want of sleep, opiates will be highly useful, and may, therefore, be given in the form of a draught, combined with pectoral medicines, to be taken at about bed-time; as in the following form : Take Solution * of Acetate of Ammonia .. 6 drachms ; Mint Water 2 ounces; Tincture of Opium 1§ drachm ; Syrup of Tolu 2 drachms; Solution of Tartai7sed Antimony .. § drachm : • Mix, and take one half at bed-time. During the whole of the complaint, the patient should be confined to bed, lying with his head and shoulders as much elevated as possible; his chamber kept cool and quiet; and his strength supported with food of a light nutritive nature, such as roasted or boiled apples, panado, &c. His drink should be thin gruel and bajley water, * For Solutions, see Appendix.45 sweetened with honey, or a decoction of liquorice root, in which a small portion of currant jelly may be dissolved to give it a pleasant tartness. The patient, on recovering, should carefully guard against any exposure to cold, or any irre- gularity which might occasion a relapse; for no inflammation is so apt to recur as that of the lungs, and a return of it might lay the founda- tion of pulmonary consumption. BASTARD PEUPNEUMONY, OR SPURIOUS INFLAM- MATION OF THE LUNGS. This is another species of the last-mentioned disease, which attacks, for the most part, people advanced in years, especially such as are of a phlegmatic habit, which is also occasioned by cold, being most frequent in autumn and spring, or where there are frequent changes of the weather from heat to cold. The disease is often so slight 3S only to resemble a violent cold, which, after the employment of a few proper remedies, goes off by a free and copious expectoration, and often with the throwing up of a considerable quantity of ropy matter. If early advice be taken, and there is great difficulty of breathing, with much pain, it will be proper to bleed, for the purpose of rendering the circulation free through the lungs j but where46 these do not prevail, bleeding must be omitted, as much harm might be done by taking away blood unnecessarily, by inducing weakness, as the disease principally attacks elderly people, and, as previously stated, such as are of a phleg- matic habit. Strong purgatives, also, on this ac- count, should be avoided. The difficulty of breathing and oppression at the chest will be best relieved by a large blister immediately over the part affected; and if there be nausea or inclination to vomit, a gentle eme- tic may be administered; but, where this is not the case, antimonial medicine, as directed in inflam- mation of the lungs. To procure a perspiration, and in order to keep up a constant effect, they should be repeated every two or three hours, the patient, at the same time, drinking plentifully of luke-warm liquors, such as barley-water, &c. Costiveness may be removed by clysters, or gentle laxatives; such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, &c. Throughout the course of this disease, as in all those of the inflammatory kind, abstinence from animal and high-seasoned food must be strictly enjoined. Where much weakness pre- vails, or where the patient has long been accus- tomed to a free use of fermented liquoTs, a small quantity of wine or porter may be allowed.47 There are other diseases, scarcely to be distin- guished from inflammation of the lungs, requiring a similar treatment, which it will not be neces- sary, in a work on domestic medicine, to treat of separately,—such as inflammation of the dia- phragm, heart-pericardium, &c. As the means of cure, however, are the same, and as the parts are no less immediately necessary to life, prompti- tude and diligence must be employed; and no time must be lost in endeavouring to cut short the disease, as well as, when this measure fails, by exerting our utmost, to conduct it to a fa- vourable crisis. INFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. Inflammation of the stomach is of two kinds. The one we purpose to speak of is that arising from contact with acrid substances, such as arse- nic, oxymuriate of mercury, oxalic and mineral acid, &c., taken into the organ; it may also be occasioned by food of an improper nature, spiri- tuous liquors, taking large draughts^ of cold li- quids when the body is much heated by exercise, such as dancing, running, &c ; also by external violence, from blows, wounds, &c., by gout and eruptions being thrown in upon it. Independent of all these, inflammation of the stomach may arise from an inflammation of some of the neigh- bouring parts, as the liver, intestines, &c.48 The symptoms of this complaint are, violent burning pain, heat and tension in the neighbour- hood of the stomach, with great sourness and flatulence, severe vomiting, especially after any thing is swallowed, whether solid or liquid ; most distressing thirst, restlessness and anxiety, and a continual tossing of the body, with great weak- ness, constant watching, delirium, &c. The event of inflammation of the stomach is seldom favourable, as the patient is usually either suddenly destroyed by the violence of the inflam- mation, or else it terminates quickly in suppura- tion, ulceration, or gangrene. If, however, the symptoms are very mild, and proper medicines have been early employed, it may terminate, ne- vertheless, in resolution, and that in the course of eight, or, at most, fifteen days. The cure of inflammation of the stomach is to be attempted by copious and repeated bleed- ings, without regard to the smallness of the pulse, or to the extreme weakness, fainting, or con- vulsions ; for these are the efi^ects of the disease. Bleeding, therefore, may be repeated every four or six hours, in such a quantity at a time as the action of the circulating medium will bear, which practice is to be continued as long as the cha- racteristic symptoms of the disease remain. After bleeding from the arm, several leeches are49 to be applied over the stomachj or cupping may be adopted, if preferred. A large blister may next be applied, and the cure assisted by fomenting the whole of the belly, as well as by administering frequent soothing and laxative clysters.* A warm bath will prove beneficial; and bathing the feet in warm water is also recom- mended. In consequence of the irritable state of the stomach, it will not retain medicine; and it is only after the violence of the pain and the fre- quency of vomiting are abated, by the preceding treatment, that opiates can be given, even in the form of clysters. But when the disease is some- what brought under, opium may be given this way, as well as internally, in small doses. The stomach may be sheathed from any acrimonious substances coming in contact with it, and which may have caused the inflammation, by the pa- tient taking small draughts of some mild diluent drink, such as chicken broth, linseed tea, or barley-water, in which a small quantity of gum arable has been dissolved. When, however, the nature of the offending matter is known, the proper specific remedies may be resorted to, (See Poisons.) * See Appendix* D50 Inflammation of the stomach, fortunately, is a very rare disorder. The fatal species of it arises chiefly towards the close of other diseases, in- dicating the certain approach to dissolution, and is unaccompanied with any marks of general in- flammation, or by burning pain in the stomach. INFLAMMATION OF THE BOWELS. Similar to the preceding, there are also two species of this disease. That, however, which is symptomatic, or which arises in consequence of another disease, we shall not treat of. The symptoms of that we are now about to no- tice, being pungent pain in the abdomen, spread- ing arid acute about the navel; nausea; vomiting ; obstinate costiveness, and fever. Inflammation of the bowels may be distinguished from colic by the latter not being accompanied by fever, nor by the quick, hard pulse. In colic there is no pain on pressing on the belly; in inflammation of the intestines there is. It is caused much in the same manner as in- flammation of the bowels, being occasioned by the presence of irritating or offending substances; viz. hardened faeces ; acrid bile; long-continued and obstinate costiveness; spasmodic colic; atmospherical vicissitudes, or the application of51 cold to some part of the skin during, or subse- quent to, a state of perspiration, &c. &c. &c. It comes on with sharp pain, generally ex- tending over the whole of the abdomen, but more especially round the navel, which is aggra- vated on pressure—accompanied with eructations, sickness at the stomach, vomiting of bilious matter, obstinate costiveness, fever, &c. This complaint is always attended with con- siderable danger, as it often terminates in gan- grene, in the space of a few hours from the com- mencement. The cure must be on the same general plan as in other inflammations, being principally directed to lessen the impetus of the blood, and to remove the obstruction from the intestines. With this view, on the first coming on of the disease, co- pious bleeding must be resorted to, by means of the lancet, as well as by leeches to the abdomen. These steps being taken, a large blister applied over the seat of the pain will be proper. To assist in relieving the pain and gripes, warm fo- mentations may be used; and soothing clysters, combined with opening medicine, in the follow- ing form, may be thrown up ; viz.— ^ » Take Infusion of Senna 11 ounces; Epsom or Glauber's Salts 1 ounce-; Castor Oil h ounce : Mix for a clyster, D 252 A solution of common soap, used as a clyster, will sometimes procure stools when applications of another nature fail. When the vomiting and nausea are abated, we may then venture to give some purgative medi- cine by the mouth ; e. g.— Take Castor Oil 1 ounce ; Mint Water ^ ounce ; Tincture of J alap , ^ drachm : OR, Infusion of Senna li onnce; Tincture of Senna 1 drachm; Epsom Salts 8 drachms : Mix for a draught, to be repeated as occasion may require. Barley water, beef tea, or chicken broth, may be taken sparingly, and only in small quantities at a time. Animal and high-seasoned food should be rigorously withheld; and, as inflam^ mation of the bowels is apt to recur from slight causes, the greatest circumspection will be re- quisite after recovery. Improper food, and ex.- posure to cold, are, therefore, to be scrupulously avoided, and costiveness to be immediately re- moved, kci INFLAMMATION OP THB LIVER. Independent of the causes producing other in- flammations-^such as cold, ejtternal injuries from.53 bruises and blows—this disease may be brought on by violent exercise; by intense summer heats; long-continued agues and remittent fevers ; by high living, more particularly by an intempe- rate use of vinous and spirituous liquors ; and by various solid concretions in the substance of the liver itself. Derangement of the digestive organs, suppressed secretions, inflammation, compression, fevers, and affections of the mind, are also very general causes of obstructions and diseases of the liver. The usual symptoms of inflammation of the liver are pain on the right side, often pungent, as in pleurisy, but sometimes dull; pain in the collar bone, and at the top of the right shoulder; uneasy lying on the left side; difficult breathing; cough and vomiting: there is frequently, also, some degree of jaundice. This disease, if properly treated, is seldom attended with fatal consequences. It is some- times carried off by a copious bleeding from the nose, or by the hemorrhoidal vessels; also by sweating, a looseness, or by an evacuation of urine which deposits a copious sediment. Its most favourable termination is by resolution; and this is effected by bleeding, leeching, or cupping, according to the violence of the symp-54 toms, and by the application of blisters, purga- tives, fomentations, &c. After bleeding has been used, a proper dose of submuriate of mercury, with jalap or scammony, should be administered, repeating it every other day, until the symptoms of inflammation sub-* side giving, in the mean time, saline medicines, &c* to keep up a discharge on the skin. These measures being adopted, several leeches may be applied over the region of the liver, or a sufficient quantity of blood may be dravm off by means of the scarificator and cupping glasses. And then, if the symptoms do not abate after using these means, a large blister, applied over the seat of the liver, will probably prove serviceable, which may be followed up by another, should it heal up too soon. Should suppuration take place, it is dangerous; but sometimes the matter points outwardly, the ulcer heals, and the consequences are prevented, or cure promoted, by the Peruvian bark, to which a few drops of elixir of vitriol may be added. In the chronic form of this disease, general bleeding is never necessary. The ordinary plan of cure, in this state of the disease, is by means of mercury, given in small doses, and slowly and externally, by means of friction, so as to keep iip55 a coppery taste in the mouth for some time, as it promotes the secretion of bile, and excites the minute vessels in the surface. To increase, how- ever, this latter effect, it has been found advan-* tageous to unite with the mercury a small propor- tion of antimonial powder, as well as of opium, to protect the bowels from irritation. To keepi up the regular peritaltic motion of the intes- tines, &c., one or two of the following pills may be taken occasionally, at bed-time : Take Coniponnd Extract of Colocynth..... 1 drachra ; ' Submuriate of Mercury 1 scruple ; ^ Tartarised Antimony ................ 4 grains ; Oil of Carraway 7 drops ; Cinnamon Syrup, a sufficient quantity to form the mass, which is to be made into 30 pills. The following draught, which is also given in acute inflammation of the liver, for the purpose of keeping the bowels gently open, may be taken : Take Infusion of Senna 1^ ounce; Epsom Sails 3 drachms ; Tincture of Jalap, and Syrup of Buck- thorn, of each ......... 1 drachm : Mix for a draught. There are few afflicted with liver complaints who will not avail themselves of proper advice and medical treatment; for which reason we purposely omit detailing the various means that56 are adopted in the plan of cure, particularly the use of mercury, which always requires the ut- most skill and judgment in the administration of it. In the chronic stage of inflammation of the liver, a continued course of bitter tonics and aperients, as taraxacum, gentian root, quassia, calumba, with soda, are advised j and the nitric acid of modern chemists has been recommended. Flannel worn next the skin; the flesh-brush; removal from a cold to a warm climate, &c., are calculated to effect healthy changes, as auxiliaries to an altera- tive course of medicine in the chronic stage of this complaint. INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEY. The symptoms of this complaint are, fever; pain in the region of the kidney, extending down- wards ; numbness of the leg and thigh of the affected side, and retraction of the testicle j nausea and vomiting 3 high-coloured, sometimes mucous, or bloody urine j frequent desire to make water, &c. It terminates in resolution, abscess, or in gangrene, known by the ordinary symptoms that accompany these terminations in other parts. The common causes of inflammation of the kidnies are, acrid diuretics; calculi or stones in the57 kidnies; external injury j long-continued and violent exercise on horseback; collections of hardened stools in the bowels (the colon) j retro- cedent or tonic gout; violent exertions, &c. The treatment here is the same as in other in- flammations ; viz. general and local bleeding, the latter by the use of cupping-glasses, or by the ap- plication of a quantity of leeches to the region of the kidnies; oleaginous purgatives of castor oil, manna, or oil of almonds, employed as frequently as required j e. g.— Take Castor Oil 1 ounce ; Mucilage of Gum Arabic, and Fennel Wiiler, of each J ounce ; Tincture of Jalap 1 drachm : Mix for a draught. Emollient and opiate clysters; mild diapho- retics, especially frequent and copious draughts of mucilaginous and diluent drinks, as barley-water, decoction of marshmallows, whey, and linseed- tea. As an opiate clyster, a drachm of the tincture of opium may be added to four or five ounces of barley water. After bleeding, flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water is advised to be kept constantl y applied over the part. In this complaint, blisters D 558 are improper. Those who are liable to frequent returns of this disease, or to obstructions of the kidnies, should carefully guard against getting wet in the feet, as well as against all exposures to cold; they should prefer lying on mattresses to feather beds, use moderate exercise, and by no means to drink any kind of wine in which tar- tar abounds. INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. The symptoms of this disease are tension and pain at the bottom of the belly, with a frequent desire to make water, difficulty, in voiding it, or a total suppression of it, together with a frequent desire to go to stool, and fever. This complaint is oftener a consequence of in- flammation in the neighbouring parts than a primary affection of the bladder itself. It is sometimes, however, occasioned by a suppression of urine, and consequent distension of the blad- der, or by a stone of considerable size lodged within it. The treatment advised in inflammation of the kidney will be proper here; except that we should not give liquids in great quantities, lest the blad- der be distended beyond what it is capable of bearing.59 In spasmodic suppresion of urine, or that aris- ing from ordinary causes, warm fomentations to the region of the bladder, with tincture of opium, from twenty to forty drops, taken internally, will frequently afford almost instantaneous relief, parti- cularly where bleeding has been premised. Col- lections of faeces in the rectum must be prevented, by cooling laxatives being taken from time to time, &c. Cases resisting these means, require the water to be drawn off by means of a catheter, when one can be introduced; where this fails, the operation of puncturing the bladder becomes pe- remptory.—(See Suppression of Urine). GOUT. The gout is a painful disease, arising without any evident external cause, but, for the most part, preceded by an unusual affection of the stomach 3 there is also some degree of fever j with pain in the joints, particularly in those of the great toes, which affects the motion of the feet and hands, returning at intervals, and often alternating with affections of the stomach, or other internal parts. The only disorder for which gout can possibly be mistaken, is rheumatism; and cases may x)€- cur where there might be some difficulty in making a just discrimination ; but the most60 certain way of distinguishing them will be, to give due consideration to the predisposition in the habit, the symptoms which have preceded, the parts affected, the returns of the disease, and its connection with the other parts of the system— circumstances usually different in the two dis- eases. In gout, the pains generally attack the small joints, and are at the same time less inclined to shift—but when they do, they usually seize the corresponding limb or some of the viscera; the parts are redder and more swollen than in rheumatism; and the symptoms of indiges- tion, which rarely precede rheumatism, are present, in a considerable degree, for some days previous to the attack of the gout. Rheumatism and gout are, however, sometimes combined. In these cases, it is neither necessary nor possible to discriminate between the two. The attacks of the latter are chiefly in the spring of the year and the beginning of winter, and the disease sel- dom appears at an earlier period of life than from thirty-five to forty. Where, however, the con- trary is the case, it may be supposed to arise in general from an hereditary predisposition, &c. It, for the most part, attacks men, and such as live well or lead sedentary lives, or are addicted to literary pursuits; those who keep late hours, or who are in the decline of life; it is, nevertheless,61 met with in females of a full and robust habit of body. Men whose employment requires constant bodily labour, or who live much upon vegetable food, as well as those who use wine and .other fermented liquors very sparingly, are not often afflicted with the gout. The causes which lay the foundation of gout may be enumerated as follows, viz. into those which induce a plethoric state of the body, and those which occasion weakness of the body in ge- neral or of the stomach in particular. Among the latter may be considered intemperance of every kind, late hours, intense study, long want of rest, much grief or anxiety of mind, great sensuality, long^ continued fatigue, exposure to cold, parti- cularly by getting wet in the feet, using too freely acidulated liquor, sudden change from a full to a spare diet, excessive evacuations, vio- lent passions of the mind, &c. Full diet of animal food, ragouts, rich and high- sccisoned sauces, with a free use of spirituous and fermented liquors, particularly of wines abound- mg with tartar, together with indolence and in- activity, are the causes which give rise to corpu- lency and a full habit of body; hence then the frequency of gout among the higher orders of people. It is the opinion, of modern physicians, most62 generally entertained, that gout proceeds from an accumulation of humours in the relaxed vessels of the ligaments and tendons of the joints; but, con- cerning the nature of those humours, different opinions are entertained. ' A paroxysm or fit of the regular gout sometimes comes on suddenly, without any warning; at other times, it is preceded by an unusual coldness of the feet and legs, a suppression of perspiration in them, and numbness; or by a sense of pricking along the lower extremities; the appetite falls off, the stomach is troubled with wind and indi- gestion ; a degree of lassitude, listlessness, and fatigue is felt over the whole body; the bowels are costive, and the urine is of a pale colour. On the night of the attack the patient goes to bed perhaps in tolerable health, and, after a few hours, is awakened with the severity of the pain, which has alFected either the joint of the great toe, the heel, calf of the leg, or probably the whole of the foot: these symptoms increase in violence, and are succeeded by rigors and feverishness, with throb^ bing of the affected part. Both feet not unfre- quently become swollen and inflamed, so that the patient can place neither of them upon the ground; nor can the least motion be indured without suf- fering the most excruciating torments. Towards the morning, he falls asleep, and a gentle sweat63 breaking out, terminates the paroxysm,—a num- ber of which constitute what is termed " a fit of the gout^" the duration of which will be longer or shorter, according to the proneness of the body to disease, the season of the year, and the age and strength of the patient. Notwithstanding there may be an alleviation of pain at the expiration of some hours after the paroxysm has commenced, still" the patient is not entirely relieved from it, and for some evenings successively both pain and fever return, which continue until the morning with more or less violence. These paroxysms, however, in time, prove milder every day, till at length the disease goes off, either by perspiration, an increased flow of urine^ or some other evacuation j the affected parts becoming itchy, the scarf-skin falling off in scales, and some degree of lameness remain- ing. During the course and progress of the com- plaint, various parts of the body are affected, and it shifts from one limb or joint to another; by repeated attacks, the joints lose their strength and flexibility, and become so stiff as to be deprived of motion, &c. &c. In some cases the entire system becomes weak and languid, in- digestion and fainting come on j and the disease, at last, terminates in palsy, asthma, or dropsy;64 the latter appearing, most commonly, in the form of water in the chest. The gout takes on the appearance of many diseases, and resembles them so closely, that, by being mistaken for them, and treated improperly, it is often diverted from its regular course, to the great danger of life. For this reason, those who liave had the gout ought to pay particular attention to whatever may happen to take place about the time that they have cause to expect a return of it. To render the recurrence of the gouty pa- roxysms less frequent, as well as the attacks less severe, more is to be effected by temperance in diet, cheerfulness and serenity of mind, moderate exertion of the mental faculties, retiring early to rest, removing costiveness as occasion may require, and by regular and moderate. exercise, than by any other means whatever, as well as their being attended with greater safety. Exercise, in persons disposed to gout, strengthens the system and prevents plethora; and, in the beginning of the disease, it will often prevent an attack which otherwise might have taken place. When absti- nence from animal food is requisite, a diet con- sisting of milk and farinaceous seeds will be the most proper; and all kinds of spirits and fer- mented liquors are to be avoided. Where any swelling and stiffness of the parts remain aftev^65 the paroxysms of the gout have subsided, benefit may be derived from galvanism or electricity, with friction by means of the flesh brush. The acidity which usually prevails in the stomach and intestines, is best corrected by tak- ing a little magnesia, once or twice a day. Opiates are sometimes resorted to, to allay the pain', but, it should be borne in mind, that when these are given, at the commencement of the paroxysms, or when the inflammation runs high, a return is often induced with more violence. It is a fact, *hat notwithstanding the many and often contradictory remedies that have been pre- scribed for gout, not one which has hitherto been offered for the benefit of the gouty world possesses any remedial power; and all that can be done, with safety to the patient, is to lead him through the paroxysm, after it has once commenced, by ab- staining from the causes previously enumerated ; by recommending temperance, regular and mo- derate exercise, abstinence from acescent food, strong liquor, &c., as the only means to prevent severe and frequent attacks. Where costiveness prevails, during a paroxysm of the gout, but particularly at its commence- ment, it may be removed by a solution of Epsom salts in pepperment-water, or by rhubarb (ten or66 fifteen grains), combined with one or two grains of calomel. In gouty affections, medicines which promote a gentle perspiration are frequently of service, g--~ Take Antimonial Powder 8 grains; Subcarbonate of Ammonia J drachm i Make four boluses, with a sufficient quantity of the confection of roses; one of which may be taken every three or four hours, and assisted by the use of diluent liquors, and temperate warmth; As a gentle aperient, when required, the fol- lowing will be serviceable: Take Magnesia 1 drachm ; Powdered Rhubarb ....... i t. 10 grains ; Compound Powder of Cinnamon 5 grains: Mix for a powder, to be taken as occasion may require. When the gout attacks a part where there is a,lready an accumulation of chalk, from preceding, long-continued, and nervous attacks, and that part is highly inflamed, the best application will be an emollient poultice; previously fomenting, with flannels wrung out of a strong decoction of poppy heads made warm. In the irregular gout, where no inflammation of the joints is present, although the gouty inflammation prevails in thesystem, but the stomach, at the same time, is aifected with indigestion, flatulency, acrid eruc- tations, and pain, the patient ought not only to avoid all debilitating causes, but should employ proper means for strengthening his system in general, and his stomach in particular. The first object may be attained by a proper quantity of plain nutritious animal food, and a moderate allowance of wine. The second, by means of aromatics, the Peruvian bark, &c.— Take infusion of Caliirab Root 8 ounces; Compound Tincture of Peruvian Bark, and Compound Tincture of Cardomoms, each 1 ounce: Two large or table-spoonfuls of this mixture may be taken twice a day. There is a remedy at present very much cried up in gouty attacks, which in many cases has alleviated the paroxysms viz. The Eau Medici- nale d'Husson (the Medicinal Water of Husson), although in some cases it has produced alarming effects, such as fainting, cold sweats, extreme prostration of strength, excessive evacuations from the stomach and bowels, &c. &c. These con- sequences, however, have only ensued when an over-dose has been taken. This remedy consists of some vegetable, of a bitter nauseous taste, in- fused in Spanish wine, with an addition of the68 tincture of opium. It is supposed by some, to be white hellebore; by others, hedge-hyssop j and by others, again, to be meadow saffron. A preparation, called the wine of the meadow saffron, given in the quantity of a fluid drachm, twice a-day, in any vehicle, has been found a valuable remedy in both gout and rheumatism ; but to render the medicine more certain and efficacious, the bowels should be particularly at- tended to; the patient, at the same time, abstain- ing from all food of a flatulent nature. The following is an admirable, and in many cases efficient, form of giving the meadow saffron, viz.— Take Liquor of Acetated Ammonia (formerly Mindereras' Spirit 1 ounce ; Wine of Meadow Saffron 1| dractim; Black Drop 8 drops ; Camphor Mixture 2 ounces ; Syrup of Saffron 3 drachms : Make a mixture, and let the patient take a table- spoonful at bed-time, repeating the dose the next night, if necessary. Many are the remedies that, from time to time, have been cried up for the cure'of the gout, although it is a well-known fact, that none hitherto offered p6ssesses any such power; and all that can be done with safety, as before ob-69 sen'cd, to the patient is, to conduct him through the paroxysm when it has once commenced; enjoining him, afterwards, to abstain from the remote causes, such as high hving, acescent food, strong Hquors, &c.; and recommending him at the same time to take gentle exercise daily. In short, temperance with moderate exercise are the most likely to prevent severe and frequent attacks of this most formidable, nay this invincible dis- order. RHEUMATISM. There are two forms of rheumatism, acute and chronic. The acute commonly affects those who are in the prime of life; and is known by wander- ing pains, swelling and redness of the part, which increase towards the evening, and when the patient grows warm in bed. It is preceded by cold shiverings, thirst, and fever, with anxiety and costiveness. It generally takes the course of the muscles, and attacks the larger joints rather than those of the hands and feet: one part is sometimes attacked, whilst another is quite free from pain : sometimes different parts are seized at the same time; and sometimes all the parts at the same instant. The bowels are generally bound; the urine, at the commencement of the disease, high coloured, usually depositing, as70 the symptoms remit^ a brickdust-like sediment; and there is a tendency to sweating in the course of the disease, which rarely brings rehef with it. There is scarce a disease, says the late Dr. Clarke, more hereditpy than rheumatism : and, he might have added, no disease is so apt to shift from one part to another. Chronic rheumatism affects the head, shoulders, knees, and other large joints ', and continues shift- ing from place to place without either fever or inflammation; continuing in this manner for a length of time, it ultimately goes off, leavi^ig the parts that have been affected in a weak state, and very liable to returns of the complaint on the ap- proach of moisture, or damp weather. There is little or no danger from rheumatism in its chronic form; but those who have once been attacked with it are more or less liable, ever afterwards, to be visited with it; and a stiff joint is sometimes the consequence of frequent relapses. Nor is acute rheumatism accompanied with much danger, as it usually goes off spontaneously, or is removed by the timely employment of proper remedies, although in some cases the patient has been de- stroyed by a general inflammation, and now and then by a translation of the rheumatic affection to some part of vital importance—such as the head, lungs, heart and stomach.71 In the treatment of acute rheumatism, the chief object to be attained is, to obviate the ge- neral inflammatory symptoms/ by dieting and blood-letting, wherever the action is strong, the constitution robust, and the heat and pain of the part considerable; proportioning the quantity of blood taken away, to the age, strength, and habit of the patient; repeating the operation the next day, according to the urgency of the symptoms; that is, if the pain continues very severe, the pulse full and hard, &;c.; but this is a mode of proceed- ing that should only be resorted to at an early period of the disease. Where the inflammation is chiefly in one part, and the pain not violent, with little or no fever, and the patient is of a weak and irritable consti- stitution, topical bleeding, by means of several leeches applied to the affected part, will often be found to give relief, without using the lancet. Moreover, there is less risk, by this means, of the disease removing to another and more important part than where it may be ac^ tually situated. When leeches cannot be pro- cured, cupping may be employed in their stead. Where the body is costive, one or two motions may be procured daily, by making use of some gentle cooling aperient medicine, such as Epsom salts, or by giving laxative clysters* The appii-72 cation of a blister, where the pain is settled in one particular part, and not accompanied with much inflammation, may be of sei-vice; or the part may be rubbed with some stimulating lini- ment, such as the camphorated spirit, with a fourth part of the solution of ammonia added to it. But, if the pains be of the wandering kind, shifting from one joint to the other, this will not be of any use. Warm fomentations, in the acute form of rheumatism, should not be employed, as they are found to increase rather than assuage the pain. f-* When the external inflammation and pain suddenly subside, and the disease attacks the head, heart, lungs, or stomach, so as to endanger the life of the patient, blisters should be applied in the neighbourhood of those parts where it originally existed, to counteract the effect of its translation to another part. Poultices to the joints, after bleeding with leeches, where the joints are painful and swell much, renewed morn- ing and evening, are serviceable in allaying the pain; e. g.—- Take Rye Flour 1 pound ; Stale Beer, or Vinegar 4 ounces ; Muriated Natron 2 ounces : work them up into a paste, and apply on linen round the joint.73 If the heat of the part be great, it may be- reduced bykeepmg cloths wetted in cold water, or in a solution of muriated ammonia with nitre, constantly to the inflamed parts.* Evaporating applications, where the pain is stationary, may give relief; such as camphorated mixture, to which alcohol or aether is added. When the necessary evacuations, such as bleeding and" clearing the bowels ^e performed, gentle pers- piration will be found serviceable, which may be promoted by giving ten grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha every three or foiir hours. To increase the effect of this medicine, the pa- tient should be wrapped in flannel, every article of linen being removed ; ahd^ as soon as he begins to perspire, and not until then, lest vomit- ing should be excited, he should drink freely of diluent liquor, such as herb-tea, barley-water, wine whey, &c. In the acute form of rheurhatishi, the patient should live upon a' cool spare diet, abstaining from animal food and fermented liquors. With respect to the chronic form of this disease, a different treatnlent is to be ' observed. Bleeding from the systenl in this case will be nei- ^ The physicians in Russia are in the habit of applying ponnded ice or snow, with good effect, in several cases of acate rheumatism. B74 ther necessary nor proper, although leeches or cupping are of service. After which, when the pain and irritability of the part are assuaged, no time should be lost in making a drain from the part, by means of issues made with caustic. It will also be advisable to rub the parts where the disease is seated with some stimulating liniment; for example : Take Tincture of Spanish Flies 2 drachms; Solution of Ammonia 1 ounce : afterwards wrapping the parts up in flannel. Exercise, either of the whole body or of the affected limb, is attended with the most decided benefit; and the want of it is apt to bring on stiffness of the limb. For this the dumb bells, walking, the flesh-brush, galvanism, and elec- tricity ; rubbing the parts with acetic aether, as recommended on the continent, as well as in lumbago and sciatica, are attended with much good effect. Camphor, dissolved in aether, and applied externally, in many instances, has been productive of the greatest relief. The ointment of tartarised antimony, which has the property of producing a crop of pustules wherever it is rubbed, is highly serviceable in deep-seated chronic pains. It is made by mixing up a drachm of tartar emetic with an ounce of hog's lard. As soon as a sufficient crop of the pustules75 is produced by its use, it should be discontinued; and, if the part has been rendered excessively irritable by this means, an emollient poultice may be applied over it. The practice is to bring out crop after crop, by returning to the use of the ointment, as soon as the effect previously produced has ceased. Moderate use of the warm bath is serviceable in recent cases of chronic rheumatism, where the pain shifts from one part to another, and where, in particular, the patient's strength is little reduced. Should it, however, turn out to be of no advantage, after having repeated it two or three times, it should be discontinued, as it is apt to induce debility; and where this exists, with deep-seated pain, the warm bath is apt to render the patient hot and restless, and never relieves, unless it cause a perspiration to break out. Vapour, shower, and cold bathing have all their advocates in chronic rheumatism; and blisters are also sometimes employed with good effect. Bandaging the affected limb with flannel bandages, carried from below upwards, has given prompt relief when all other means have failed ; applying them tightly, and, on their removal, using manual friction. When the knee, or other joint, becomes enlarged, it has been recom- mended to be well rubbed three or four times B 276 a day with half an ounce of the muriate of am-, monia dissolved in three quarters of a pint of vinegar. The remedies most generally recommended to be taken internally in chronic rheumatism, are those medicines which promote perspiration, and are of a stimulating nature. Of the first kind are the preparations of antimony, in the follow- ing form: Take Powder of Antimony, from 6 to 10 grains ^ Cream of Tartar 6 grains ; OR, Nitre 5 grains : To be repeated every three or four hours. If the compound powder of ipecacuanha be preferred, take from ten to fifteen grains. Of the second^ or stimulating kind, are those medicines con- taining oils and resins, such as volatile alkaline salts, guiacum, turpentine combined with bark3 as follows: Take Oil of Turpentine ..... 3 draclnns ; Sufficient of the Yolk of an Egg to mix them : then add. Compound Spirit of Juniper 2 ounces ; Decoction of Bark 8 ounces : . , iHvii table-spoonfiils of ihis mixture may be takeii every four hours : OR, Take Ammohiated Tincture of Gniacnni, 2 drachms for a dose.n OR, Take Powdered Gum Guiacum 1 scruple; Compound Powder of Ipecacuanha .. | scruple. Should the patient's rest be much disturbed in consequence of the severity of the pain, a grain of opium, or from 20 to 30 drops of the tincture, may be given in any vehicle at bed-tiime. The meadow saffron may also be given, as advisfed in gout (p. 60). It will afford much relief in any stage of rheumatism, particularly the chronic species. LUMBAGO AND SCIATICA. When chronic rheumatism affects the small of the back, it is known by the name of lumbago. The pains shoot downwards from the loins, the patient cannot stand upright without experiencing great pain, nor does he find any ease in bed. When this disease fixes itself in the hip joint, it is called sciatica. Both of these forms of the disease require to be treated nearly in the same manner as chronic rheumatism. In sciatica, and pains situated in the hips and loins, turpentine is frequently given with considerable benefit. The hot bath, when the patient is strong and the symptoms moderate, is of service 3 continuing in it from about fifteen to twenty-five minutes. The following bolus, >given also in rheumatism.78 when the fever is gone, may be taken at bed- time : Extract of Opium IJ grain; Powder of Ipecacuanha 3 grains ; Nitre 10 grains ; Confection of Opium 1 scruple ; Syrup enough to make a bolus. The balsam of Peru, taken to the quantity of 30 drops, twice a day, has been of use in lum- bago and sciatica; also the balsam of copaiva, and Canada turpentine. Rubbing the part until it becomes inflamed, with the flour of niustard, has a good effect, as well as mustard whey, made in the following manner, drank plentifully: Take Milk and Water, of each pint. Bruised Mustard-sced 2 ounces : Boil these together until the curd be perfectly separated from the milk. Strain afterwards through a cloth. This is a convenient and bene- ficial method of administering mustard, and is found equally efficacious, as a drink, in palsy and dropsy, as it invigorates the habit, and promotes the different secretions. A little sugar may be added to it, to render it more palatable. Tlie dose may be a tea-cupful five or six times a day.79 OF FEVERS. This class of diseases is usually divided into intermittents or agues, remittents, and continued fevers, from their taking up different times in the order of their natural duration; some having a number of paroxysms, which follow each other in regular succession at some distance of time, as in agues J in others, fresh paroxysms imme- diately succeed the crisis or turn of the former, so as scarcely to leave the patient entirely free from fever, as is the case in remittents; and in others again, there is such a quick succession of paroxysms, that one comes on before there is any visible abatement of the febrile symptoms, as in continued fevers. There are several species of fever compre- hended under the head of typhus ; there is, how- ever, no specific difference in them, as they seem to arise either from a different degree of power in the cause, varying circumstances in the cli- mate or season of the year, peculiar constitu- tional affection; or, from some particular state of the fluids, which gives a predisposing tendency to putrescency.69 OF INTERMITTENT FEVERS, OR AGUES. These are divided into the quotidian, or daily; the tertian, or third day; the quartan, or fourth day agues, implying the distance of time observed between the periods of their return. There are other varieties and forms of this disease; but here we shall only notice agues, in the ordinary mode of appearance. When agues arise in the spring of the yearj they are called vernal; in autum, autumnal agues. They, often prove of obstinate cure and duration in warm climates; but more particularly where drop- sical swellings exist, and enlargement of the liver and spleen. They are more prevalent in marshy countries, and are said to arise in consequence of marsh vapour, the effluvia arising from stagnant water or marshy ground, when acted upon by the heat of the sun, &c. Poor watery living, excessive fatigue, weakness, exposure to cold and moisture, damp atmospheres, lying in damp rooms or beds, suppression of some long-accustomed evacuation; the recession, or falling in, of eruptions, &c., are also among the exciting causes of ague. Each paroxysm of this type of fever is divided into three different stages, called the cold, the hot, and sweating stages 3 and these regularly succeed each other.81 By administering an emetic just before the commencement of the first or cold stage, it has ^ frequently prevented a return of the paroxysm; and a drachm of sulphuric aether in a tea-cupful of water, has in some instances, when given oil the commencement of the cold, been found to prevent the accession of the hot stage. The dose must be repeated on the approach of the next fit. The Peruvian bark, as much as the stomach will bear at a time, must be given at intervals. Where there is much nausea and vomiting, the stomach may be washed out with some weak camomile tea; if there be cough, with pain in the side, a blister may be applied to the part affected; and should the head be much affect- ed, either during the paroxysms or the inter- missions, a blister may also be applied to the back, and leeches to the temples. At this time opiate medicines must not be given. Should the febrile symptoms ruii high, gentle perspi- rations may be encouraged by small and re- peated doses, such as— Antimonial Powder 2 grains ; Powdered Contrayerva Root 10 grains: The patient assisting their effect with mild dilu- ent liquors} for instance, barley-water, and small beer taken warm, &c. It has been recommend- ed, on the authority of Dr. Lind, to give opium £ 5 V82 during the hot fit/ as it generally affords imme- diate relief; viz. from twenty to thirty drops, or more, after the hot fit has begun. When an intermission of this disease is ob- tained, the Peruvian bark must also be given in large doses 5 that is, one or two drachms every hour, if the stomach does not reject it; as the benefits expected from this medicine depend on a large quantity being taken in a short time. The powder is the best form of taking the bark; but where this is not agreeable, the decoction or infusion of it may be substituted, to which may be added a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid; also the extract. Should all these forms be re- jected, it must then be exhibited in the form of clysters. With children in particular, in this form, when they cannot be prevailed upon to take it otherwise, it may be administered every four hours with much benefit: for this purpose, for an adult, take extract of Peruvian bark, with a sufficient quantity of water, and add a few drops of opium that it may not immediately pass off, and give it as a clyster, as directed above—pro- portioning the quantity for children. The following is an eligible manner of giving the bark internally : Take Extract of Peruvian Bark 1 drachm ; Decoction of the same 6 ounces ; Tincture of Orange-peel i,., 4 drachms :83 Mix them, and let the patient take two large spoonfuls every two hours. Many substitutes have been introduced for the Peruvian bark, but there is none so certain in in- termittents as this medicine itself, when good, and taken in sufficient quantity. The following electuary, in long-continued agues, may be taken viz.—■ Take Powder of Bark 1§ ounce ; Powdered Rhubarb li drachm ; Subcarbonate of Sodae 2 drachms; Syrup of Ginger) enough to make the Electuary of a proper consistence: of which, the size of a small nutmeg may be taken three or four times a day. As agues are very apt to return, such causes as might bring on a fresh attack, are to be care- fully avoided. The giddiness of the head, which not uncommonly occurs after a slight attack of an intermittent fever, may, for the most part, be relieved by the use of the bark and wine. The patient's strength, during an intermittent, should be kept up by light nutritious aliment; such as the preparations of barley, sago, tapioca, panada; but in the absence of the fit, the patient may be allowed animal food, and a moderate quantity of wine.84 REMITTENT, OR REMITTING FEVER. This kind of fever is, like the preceding, brought on by putrid exhalations from marshes and stag- nant water, impregnated with the decomposed re- riiains of animal and vegetable substances, and is most prevalent -when there is a sudden transition of temperature, or when calm, close, and sultry weather follows upon heavy rains and inundations. It is also met with in low marshy situations which abound with wood andwater^ and it mostly attacks those of a relaxed habit, who undergo great fatigue, breathe impure air, and those living upoii poor and unwholesome diet. In its simple state it is not infectious, but under bad management, such a« crowding too many sick people toge- ther, neglecting proper cleanliness, and not ad- mitting a free, current of fresh air, there is little doubt that it engenders matter capable of pro- ducing a contagious fever. , Before a patient is attacked with the fever, he is commonly heavy and languid; much anxiety, listlessness, sighing and yawning prevail, followed up with alternate heat and cold. When the attack has commenced, he experiences severe pain in the head and back; a great increase of heat is diffused over the whole body, considerable thirst and dif- ficulty of breathing are present, with great de-.85 pression of spirits. The tongue is white—the eyes and skin assume a yellowish tinge—there is pain arid swelling about the region of the stomach; nausea and vomiting of bilious matter ensue, and the pulse is small and frequent. When these symptoms have continued for a time, the fever abates or goes off imperfectly, by a gentle moisture diffusing itself partially over the skin; but in a few hours it returns with more or less of the preceding sjnnptoms. In this maniler it goes on, until it changes to a fever of a different type. This is the mildest form of the fever. Some- times a delirium arises, the symptoms increase with redoubled violence, and carry off the patient. The remitting fever is always attended with some hazard, particularly in warm climates, where it usually nms its course in live or six days; but in cold ones, its crisis is generally not effected until the twelfth or fourteenth day. Each succeeding paroxysm is attended with more danger than that which preceded it; and the shorter and more obscure these paroxysms, the, greater the danger: but the milder the attack, and the nearer the fever approaches to the inter- mittent kind, the fairer the prospect of recovery. From the determination of blood to the different organs, difficulty of breathing, &c., bleeding would appear to be indicated in this dis-86 ease j and it may be proper in patients of a full and plethoric habit of body, at an early stage of the fever. The use of cupping-glasses to the back of the head, in protracted cases, where the head is much affected, leeches to the temples and blisters, are to be preferred to bleeding in the arm. The patient's apartment, during the course of this fever, cannot be kept too quiet; all irritating circumstances, such as too strong a light falling on the patient's face, noise and motion, excess of heat, &c., should be sedulously avoided. A free admission of cool air, the chamber kept at a moderate temperature, light covering to the bed, &c. These may be assisted with some cooling acidulated liquor, such as lemonade, tamarind beverage, or the imperial drink, made in the following manner : Take Cream of Tartar i ounce ; White Sugar 4 ounces; Fresh Orange Peel i ounce; Barley Water 3 pints : To be taken for a common drink. The patient's body-linen, as well as that of the bed, must be frequently changed; and the cham- ber sprinkled throughout the day with vinegar. Whatever is voided by the patient should be in- stantly removed. His head should be kept father87 raised, and where the determination to the head is strong, it should be shaved, and folds of linen, moistened with vinegar and water constantly applied to it; his feet should also be occasionally placed in warm water. In all cases of this disease, in consequence of the sickness which prevails at the commence- ment, it will be proper to cleanse the stomach by means of a gentle emetic of the powder of ipecacuanha, or solution of tartarised anti- mony*) after which the bowels may be opened with some mild laxative, such as the following: Take Tartrite of Potass 2 drachms; Infusion of ScuDa 1^ ounce; Tincture of Jalap 1 drachm : OK, Jalap 15 grains ; Calomel 5 grains. As soon as it is found that the fever shows a disposition to yield, and when a perfect remis- sion takes place, the Peruvian bark should be given in substance, as directed in intermittent fever; and should it occasion purging, a few drops (about • When vomiting prevails, as a symptom ef this fever, antimonials will be improper. Flannels w^ning out in a warm decoction of camomiles and poppy heads, may be applied to the region of the stomach. Also ten drops of the tincture of opium, given in some saline vehicle; e.g. two •r three grains of nitre in an ounce or tv*ro of water,88 ten) of the tincture of opium may he added to each dose. To guard against a relapse, the baric should be continued for some days after the attacks have ceased; and in seasons and places where this disease is prevalent, the bark may be lised as a preventive, by taking some of the compound tincture about twice a day, or in the morning on ah empty stomach. ^ SIMPLE CONTINUED FEVER. Inflammatory fever and typhus, blended in some degree, are supposed to constitute this species of fever ; the first preponderating at its commencement, the latter towards its termination. It is contagious, and occurs more frequently in this country than any other kind of fever. It is in- duced by every thing that has a manifest tendency to enervate or weaken the body; consequently we find it arising from excessive bodily fatigue, too great indulgence in sensual pleasures, in- temperance in drinking; peissions of the mind ; suppression of accustomed discharges: but the most ordinary cause is the application of cold*to the body, checking the natural perspiration, &ric^ jOther causes are the breathing infectious air from tlte bodies of people labouring under disease, ex- halations arising from putrid animal or vegetable89 substances, &c. &c. The symptoms marking an attack of this fever are nearly the same which characterise the preceding species; and when the symptoms run high, there is a considerable de- termination, of blood to the head, delirium, with, as in most other fevers of the continued kind, an increase of the symptoms towards the evening. If the disease be likely to prove fatal, either from the severity or its long continuance, there is a starting of the tendons, pricking of the bedclothes, involuntary discharges, by urine and stool, cold- ness of the extremities, hiccups, &c. But where these ominous apearances do not take place, the disease runs through its course, and ultimately ceases. It has been supposed that the termination of continued fevers usually happens on certain critical days 5 viz. the third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, seventeenth, and twenty-first. It would be fruitless to attempt to furnish the various incidents and peculiarities of fever gene- . rally, for the information and practice of the domestic practitioner; as it would certainly be more safe to omit medicine entirely, than to en- trust, much less to recommend, the management of the patient in these dangerous diseases to any but those who are f[ualified by their knowledge of the structure and functions of the human90 frame, and with the diseases to which it is liable from so many commixed causes; since it belongs exclusively to the profession of medicine, em- bodied with much practical experience and ac- quaintance with the animal economy under dis- ease, to distinguish critical and salutary changes from such as have a contrary tendency and effect. It is necessary, however, at the same time, to remark that, there is something, in all disorders, requiring particular attention to the state of the bowels. After these have been cleared out by the necessary and proper means, should the patient particularly request it, he may be in- dulged, in moderation, in whatever he may ask for; as, in fever, it is no uncommon occurrence for peculiar longings to arise, although they may not always appear to be proper. It is requisite also to observe, or ratlier to repeat, that the patient, during the progress of the disease, should avoid all motion of the body; consequently ought to be confined to bed. All external or internal impressions, which lead to thought, as proving stimuli to the body, and tending to excite motion, or passion, are to be guarded against. The patient should be kept as quiet and composed as possible; his apartment kept cool, and sufficiently ventilated by admitting91 fresh air; taking care, however, that it does not come in upon him in a direct stream or current. His bed-clothes should not be too heavy, &c. In this, as in all fevers of the continued type, animal food, spirits or fermented liquors, &c., should not be taken j the patient's aliment should be of the light, nutritious kind, and such as is easily digested, consisting of barley vv^ater, sago, vermicelli, &c. j changing them now and then for boiled prunes, and roasted apples. His beverage should be linseed tea, toast and water, milk, whey, thin gruel, and balm tea. With these remarks we shall conclude our observations on fever, either of the inflammatory or putrid kind, as requiring a treatment that could not possibly be anticipated from any other channel than through direct medical advice and superintend- ance. We return, therefore, to those diseases more within domestic comprehension and familiarity. INVOLUNTARY DISCHARGES OF BLOOD. These arise in various parts of the body from many causes. They are, however, not always attended with danger, but, on the con- trary, many of them are productive of salutary ; effects. When such discharges are critical, as&2 in fevers, &c., they should hy no means be med- dled with, miless they are so great as to threaten consequent debility or life. Periodical dis- charges of blood, from whatever part of the body they may arise, must not be stopped. They are always an effort of nature to relieve herself, and fatal diseases have been the consequence of ar- resting them. Bleeding from the nose is very common in young- plethoric people; and spitting of blood is, for the most part, met with in those more ad- vanced in years. First, then, of BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. Bleeding at the nose comes on without any previous warning, and is frequently a consequence ef a full habit of body and of a sanguine tem- perament. Sometimes it is preceded by pain and heaviness in the head, ringing in the ears, flushing of the face, heat, and itching of the nos- trils, throbbing of the temporal arteries, quick pulse, &c. &c. Females are much less subject to it than males, particularly after menstniation has commenced. It may arise from various causes; among which are, peculiai' smallness of the vessels of the part, &c., heat, violent exer- tion, blows, and particular postures of the body9a which give the blood a stronger determination't» the head, fijc. As, however^ this discharge from the nose proves salutary in some disorders, such, as vertigo, head-ache arising from too great a quantity of blood in the vessels of the head; ahd is critical in others, such as inflammation of the brain, apoplexy, inflammatory fevers, &c., it should be duly weighed at the time the occur- rence takes place, whether it really be a disease demanding immediate interference, or an effort of nature to remove some other disorder, con- sequently not requiring any interruption, as long as the patient is not weakened by it. Nor should it be suddenly stopped even in persons of good health, wheri not carried to any considerable ex- tent. When, on th6 other hand, it arises in elderly people, and returhs too frequently, or continued till the patient becomes faint, it should be stopped as soon as possible. Should it require to be stopped, the patient ought to be freely exposed to cool air, and placed in the erect posture, with his body soihe-J what inclined backward, and he should drink freely of cold liquids. Irnmersing the head Iri cold water is recommended; snuffing diluted vinegar frequently up the nose; or an astringent wash may be thrown repeatedly up that nostril Whence the blood proceeds, composed as follows i94 T&ke t*ow(]ered Alum. •. 4 drachms; Rose Water 12 ounces ; Distilled Vinegar •.. 2 ounces: Mix them for use. Or, Muriatic Tincture of Iron 3 drachms ; Distilled Water 6 ounces: Mix and use them in the same manner. If the bleeding should still continue after these measures, a dossil of lint, dipped in a solution of the sulphate of copper, or in Ruspini's styptic, may be introduced up the nostril; or in a portion of Eaton's styptic, composed as follows : Take Calcined Green Vitriol 1 drachm ; Proof Spirit, tinged yellow with a little Oak Bark 2 Pints. One of the most powerful styptics is charcoal; and in slight cases of bleeding from the nose, it may be used in the manner of snufF. It may also be used by means of tents, or dossils of soft linen (small enough to be admitted up the nos- tril), first moistened with water, and then dipped in charcoal powder. To assist these, cold water may be sprinkled on the patient's face, and his ge- nitals now and then immersed in the same fluid. There are many other means resorted to, to arrest profuse and inveterate bleeding from the nose; but, when it exceeds the bounds of mo- deration and becomes ungovernable, it is top95 serious an affair to be left in inexperienced hands. When, however, bleeding at the nose has ceased of its own accord, or has been stopped by artificial means, such as plugs, tents, &c., the patient must not remove the clotted blood or the tents in the nostril, but should allow them to come away of themselves. He should also be careful to apply nothing of a stimulating nature, nor to blow his nose with any degree of violence; in fact, he should do this as seldom and as gently as possible. When it occurs in people of a full habit of body, the frequent use of cooling medicines, with temperance in diet, is recommended ; and where it may be occasioned by too great a flow of blood to the head, occasional bleeding from the arm and leeches to the temple will be service- able. SPITTING OF BLOOD. This disorder generally arises between the ages of 16 and 25, and may be brought on by violent exercise, such as running, jumping, wrest- ling, singing, blowing wind instruments; also by wounds, inflammation of the lungs, and the. membranes lining them; excessive drinking; suppression of the menstrual and hemorrhoidal9ft discharge, &e. &c. The blood spit up is of a bright red colour. It is not-dangerous where no symptoms of consumption have preceded or accompanied the discharge; where no cough or shortness of breath is left behind, or other affection of the lun^s, and where there is no malformation in the structure of the chest; nor in persons of a sound constitution, unless the discharge be very great: but, when it attacks people of a weak, lax fibre, and of delicate constitution, it may be difficult to remove. It seldom takes place to such a de- gree as to prove fatal at once j and when this does- occur, the effusion is from some large ves- sel.. Persons under this complaint should live re- gularly and sparingly; carefully avoiding heat, and every kind of bodily exertion, and even, in severe cases, speaking. The patient should use cooling purgatives occasionally, such as Epsom Salts, • i ounce; Infusion of Roses 2 ounces : Also, Take Infusion of Roses 6 ounces; Nitre .. t drachm ; Tincture of Opium, ,. ^ 1 drachm : Mixj and take two table-spoonfuls every four hours,'97 oil, Take Diluted Sulphuric Acid 1 drachm ; Water 4 ounces ; Tincture of Opium, and Syrup of Roses, of each 1 drachm: Two table-spoonfuls, three or four times a day: OB, Alum in powder, and Catechu, of each 8 grains} with Confection enough to make a bolus. Soda water, a light vegetable diet, and. cold acidulated liquors for common drink; im- mersing the feet and genitals and the lower part of the body in cold water are strongly recom- mended for spitting of blood, as well as sprinkling the genitals with some cold affusion, i. e. Vinegar and Water. We are told by a very cele- brated physician, (Dr. Rush,) that a table-spoon- ful or two of common salt will often prove successful in arresting a discharge of blood from the minute vessels of the lungs, when every other means fail. As the most proper exercise, sailing, swinging, and gentle riding on horseback, are recommend- ed j as are blisters, &c., whenever there is fixed pain in the chest, &c. &c; avoiding all violent exertions, using cooling purgatives, spare diet, &c. &c. F98 VOMITING OF BLOOD. This is a discharge of dark-coloured grumous blood from the stomach, in greater or less quantity, mixed with alimentary matter; pre- ceded by a sense of weight and dull pain or anxiety in the region of the stomach. The causes giving rise to 'it are a plethoric habit, suppression of evacuations, blows, bruises, &c. It seldom proves fatal from the loss of blood, but often occasions considerable weak- ness. It is also a frequent occurrence of some other disease; and the success of the treatment here will depend on the probability of that disease being cured. When vomiting of blood is accompanied with symptoms which indicate an inflammatory dispo- sition, general bleeding, spare diet, and sedative remedies, should be resorted to. If it depend on other causes, tonic and astringent remedies, with sulphuric acid and opium; for instance— Take Infusion of Roses 13 drachms ; Diluted Sulphuric Acid 10 drops ; Syrup of Roses 1 drachm ; Tincture of Opium 10 drops : Make a draught, to be taken every two hours.99 OR, Take Purified Alum 2 scruples ; Infusion of Roses G ounces; Diluted Sulphuric Acid | drachm; Tincture of Opium 40 drops: of which take two large table-spoonfuls every second or third hour. When the discharge has ceased, infusion of roses with diluted sulphuric acid should be taken every four or six hours; and the bowels kept open with proper doses of Epsom salts in the infusion of rose water, or alum, ten grains, every four hours, &c. In severe attacks the application of a blister to the region of the sto- mach is often attended with the best elfects, &c. VOIDING OF BLOOD BY URINE. This disease may proceed from a variety of causes, among which may be enumerated falls, blows, bruises; violent exertions, such as jumping, hard riding, &c. j and not unfrequently from a stone imbedded in the kidney, &c. 3 which, from its size or irregularity, wounds the part with which it is in contact. In this case, the blood voided is most commonly coagulated, and deposits a sediment of a dark brown colour, having the appearance of coffee grounds. If the disease be a consequence of some ex- ternal injury, the treatment will be indicated by the cause which occasioned it 5 if from a blow F 2100 or fall, and the patient is of a full habit of body, it will be proper to take away blood, giving him at the same time a couple of table-spoonfuls of the following mixture, every two or three hours: Take Infusion of Roses 8 ounces; Diluted Sulphuric Acid 30 drops; Purified Nitre ^ drachm: Using some gentle purgative, such as castor oil, Epsom salts, &c., every second or third day, to keep the body open. Should the discharge of blood continue after these measures, astringent medicines, such as those used in spitting or vomiting of blood, may be given; be- ginning with those of the mildest kind; and, to allay irritation, from a quarter to half a grain of opium may be given every four or six hours. When the discharge of blood is a consequence of stone in the bladder, kidney, &c., it is only to be cured by removing the offending cause; but as this is not always practicable, we should be satisfied with moderating the symptoms, and making them as mild and tolerable as possible; for which purpose, the patient should drink co- piously of mucilaginous drinks, such as barley water, solution of gum arable, decoction of marsh- mallows; and he should take small and repeated doses of opium, combined with cooling medicine, as advised under the head of spitting of blood. \101 When voiding of blood is a symptom of some malignant disease, the most powerful antiseptics • are demanded. HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. This is a disease which requires but little if any explanation. The piles consist of small tumours, situated on the verge of the anus, &:c. In some cases blood discharges from these tumours, particularly when the patient strains at stool; the disease is then distinguished by the term bleeding piles J and where there is no discharge, it is called the blind piles. The piles may be occasioned by habitual cos- tiveness, hard riding, excesses of various kinds; suppression of accustomed discharges; full habit of body; by the use of strong purges con- taining aloes; and are more liable to arise in those of a robust constitution, and in people of sedentary life. Child-bearing women are fre- iquentiy subject to piles, from various causes, and from the costive habit to which such women are usually prone. The piles are more troublesome than dangerous; and in many in- stances are to be regarded as a salutary evacuation. The tumours are sometimes attended with a con- siderable degree of inflammation, which, proceed- ing to suppuration, may terminate in fistulas, &c,102 It is necessary, in treating the piles, to pay strict attention to the cause which gave rise to them; and as costiveness is one of the most frequent, the bowels should be kept open by the regular use of such medicines as will prove gently laxative without irritating; which may be ef- fected by the following electuary; viz.— Fake Lenitive Electuary 2 ounces; Jalap 2 drachms; Nitre.... 1^ drachm: About the size of a walnut to be taken occasionally. OR, Take Flour of Sulphur 3 ounce; Lenitive Electuary 2 ounces; Cream of Tartar. 3 drachms; Syrup of Roses enough to make the vchole into an Electuary. OR, If Castor Oil be preferred, a sufficient dose of it may be taken to answer the purpose. Where there is much inflammation, and conse- quent irritability of the tumours, leeches applied to them will prove serviceable; they may also be scarified with the point of a lancet; applying afterwards pledgets dipped in some cooling as- tringent lotion, such as a solution of the sugar of lead jor sulphate of zinc; observing, after each stool, to anoint the parts Avith some kind of103 emollient ointmentj such as the cerate of sugar oi lead, one ounce, with which two drachms of pulve- rised opium have been mixed. Fomentations are also serviceable; and in plethoric habits, small doses of nitre, as in the above electuary. The patient should endeavour to obtain motions at stated times, and without straining. Balsam of copavia, to the extent of forty or fifty drops, morning and evening, frequently relieves the pain so often produced by the piles. In those cases where the tumours are not attended with much inflammation, but are nu- merous and very troublesome, pressure upon them is the most effectual remedy; and however much the tumours may protrude, either during stool or at other times, they may almost always be re- turned by means of gradual and constant pressure upon them with the fingers; the patient lying on his back; and a bandage properly secured, with a small pad or compress of soft linen dipped in some anodyne lotion, will prevent them from fall- ing down again. If the piles protrude every time on going to stool, they must be replaced in the manner here mentioned, and treated in the pre- ceding way; and where this proceeds from a lax state of the parts, to the use of the bandage may be added astringents, by means of pledgets dipped in a strong solution of galls or oak bark; I104 anointing the parts from time to time with oint- ments that have the same effect. (rake£)ccoction of Oak Bark., i pint ; Made by boiling down 2 ounces of the bark in 2 pints of water to one—to wlilch add, Alum 2 drachms ; Tincture of Opium 1 drachm : and mix for an injection :— OR, Take White Vitriol 1 drachm ; Rose ^yater 1 pint; Tincture of Opium 1 drachm j OR, Bruised Oak galls J ounce; Hot Water 2 pints : and make an infusion by pouring boiling water ' on them. During the continuance of the piles, and when the tumours are in a high state of inflammation, the patient's diet should be cool, nutritious, and easy of digestion; water, or toast and water, with cooling acidulated drinks, should be his only beverage. In order to prevent a relapse when the virulence of the piles has abated, and to strengthen the parts, washing them with cold water, night and morning, is serviceable in bracing up the coats of hemorrhoidal veins, and in hardening the excrescences. The piles have sometimes been injudiciously stopped by the i^se105 of powerful astringents, which have been the means of bringing on more troublesome and dan- gerous complaints; so that it has been deemed advisable, on many occasions, to have them re- produced, which has proved salutary; for which bleeding in the feet has been recommended; with small doses of aloes given every night, until the object has been obtained. IMMODERATE FLOW OF THE MENSES, The periodical discharge called the menses is to be considered as in excess when it returns more frequently than what is natural, and continues lon- ger than is usual with the same person. Where it is profuse and attended with pains in the back^' and the patient is of a full robust habit with febrile symptoms, she may loose a few ounces of bloody but in other cases bleeding maybe safely omitted- In general, it will be sufficient to employ the other means, such as keeping the body gently open with mild opening medicine; cooling Thedicine^ such as small doses of nitre; living sparingly^ drinking freely of cool acidulated drinks (half an ounce or an ounce of cream of tartar to two pints of water, sweetened to the taste with sugar), lemonade, tamarind water; and by admitting air into the apartment, avoiding too much warmth, and keeping to bed. By attending to these means, F 5106 'and guarding against every thing that may have a contrary effect, women, in most cases, might prevent the weakness which repeated and severe attacks of this discharge are apt to occasion. Linen cloths dipped in vinegar and cold water, 'Constantly renewed and applied to the back and -private parts, have, in many cases, a powerful effect in uterine hemorrhage: and may be em- ployed with advantage, where the discharge is profuse, with astringent medicines, such as alum, ^catechu, Armenian bole, &c., in any of the fol- lowing forms: "Take Alum, and Gum Kino, of each 10 grains; ^make, with the confection of roses, a bolus, and repeat it every three or four hours, adding to it occasionally half a drachm of opium :— OR, Take Extract of Catechu 10 grains ; • Purified Ahim 12 grains; : Confection of Roses enough to form a bolus : _To be taken as above. Any of the astringent pre- parations recommended in the spitting of blood, will also be proper here :— ORj Take Decoction of Bark 6 ounces ; Purified Alum 1 drachm ; Tincture of Opium 50 drops : Two table-spoonfuls of which may be taken every four hours.107 WHiere great laxity of the system prevails, and where menstruation becomes profuse, continues longer than ordinary, or returns more frequently than what is natural, the patient, during the inter- vals, should enter upon a course of tonic medicine, such as Peruvian bark, preparations ofsteel, myrrh, &c.; for instance, the following mixture— Take Gum Myrrh, in powder 1 drachm ; Distilled Water 6 ounces; Cinnamon Water 1 ounce; Subcarbonate of Potass ^ drachm ; Sulphate of Iron 1 scruple ; Common Syrup 2 drachniS : Mix, and take a fourth part three times a day; viz. one part every morning, another at four in the evening, and another at bed-time. To repress the too great or continual menstruation which occurs in weak constitutions, at what is usually termed the turn of life, or when it ought to cease, preparations of steel, alum, bitters, &c.; and. opium, a grain, with five grains of rhubarb, every night at bed-time, may be taken with good effect* CATARRH. This disease resembles in some degree the measles; from which, however, it may be distin- guished by the great mildness of the feverish symptoms, and by the absence of many of those108 which accompany the latter. It consists in au increased discharge of mucus from the nose, throat, and cells of the lungs, attended with a slight degree of fever. It makes its appearance with a dull pain or sense of weight on the fore- head, redness of the eyes, fulness and heat of the nostrils, &c., soon followed by the oozing of a thin acrid fluid from these parts; with soreness in the windpipe, hoarseness, frequent sneezing, some difficulty of breathing, dry cough, loss of appetite, lassitude over the whole frame, and chilliness; towards evening the pulse becomes considerably quickened, and a slight degree of fever ensues. During the course of the disorder, the cough is attended with a discharge of mucus, at first white, thin, and expectorated with difficulty; which becomes gradually thicker and of a yellow colour; and, ultimatel)', is brought up with con- siderably greater ease and less coughing. This disease attacks persons of all ages, but more particularly the young, and those who, on former occasions, have had affections of the lungs. It may also take place at any season of the year, from the sudden transition of the weather from heat to cold and from cold to heat. It is seldom attended with fatal consequences, except when it occurs in people advanced in years; attacks those of a consumptive tende»c y 3 OT where it has been improperly treatea oi ag-109 gravated by some fresh application of cold. In mild attacks, however, it is not always necessary to have recourse to medicine. The patient has only to confine himself to bed, to live abste- miously, drink copiously of mild diluent liquors, such as barley water, thin gruel, acidulated with small quantities of lemon juice or citric acid, &c. But in violent attacks, and where there is great difficulty of breathing, much feverish heat, and a fiill and frequent pulse, it will be necessary, in- dependently of the preceding means, to guard against general inflammation and its effects, by employing the lancet, with the various other remedies used on similar occasions. From the commencement of this disease, gentle perspiration and expectoration should be pro- moted by the repeated and frequent use of doses of antimonial medicines, and expectorants^ e. g. Take Camphor 4 grains; Antimonial Powder 2 grains ; Confection of Roses enough to make a bolus: To be taken every four hours, and its effects assisted by drinking plentifully of thin gruel, barley water, &c.; and the following, or some similar emulsion for the cough : Take Mucilage of Gum Arabic 6 ounces ; Oil of Sweet Almonds 1 ounce; Syrup of Tolu | ounce ; Solution of Subcarbonivte of Ammonia 60 drops:110 Mix them together, and take a large spoonful often. Gentle laxatives, if costiveness prevails; and if the inside of the nose be much affected, it may be smeared occasionally with a little tallow or spermaceti ointment, inhaling from time tp time the steam of hot water. The patient's diet should be cooling and spare, such as water gruel, beef tea, vegetables, &c. The feet and legs may be bathed. The use of flannel and fleecy hosiery cannot be too much urged, as a preventive of this disease, as well as proper attention to clothing. Quack medicines for cough, &c., as containing stimulating and heating ingredients, should never be taken in this disease; nor ought the patient to trust to paregoric and the like, which are but too frequently resorted to without discrimination, to the injury of the patient's health and the exacerbation of the disease. Fre- quent transitions from heat to cold, and vice versa, streams of air from crevices, ardent spirits, &c., should be avoided, &c. DYSENTERY. This disease, vulgarly called the flux, is an inflammation of the membrane liming the intes^Ml tines; it is attended with frequent stools, severe griping pains, frequent desire of stools, which are small in quantity and not of the natural kind, consisting principally of slimy matter, and not unfrequently streaked with blood. When the natural evacuations do make their appearance, they usually come away in small compact hard bodies. It occurs chiefly in autumn, and is often occasioned by moist or cold weather suddenly succeeding intense heat or great drought, which checks the perspiration and determines it towards the intes- tines. It is also occasioned by eating unwhole-. some and putrid food, and by noxious exhalations of vapours J but when it prevails epidemically, it may be attributed to a particular disposition of the atmosphere. It also occurs about the same time with the intermittent and remittent fevers of autumn; and is frequently combined with typhus fever, &c. This disease may be distinguished from diarrhoea or looseness, by the absence in the latter of fever and frequent desire of going to stool, as well as by the other symptoms already enumerated. In the treatment of this complaint it is usual to begin with a gentle emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening ; administering, the next morning, castor oil, or some saline purgative, which should be repeated every second or third day, for the pur-*112 pose of procuring a discharge of the natural motions. Take Castor Oil • • • • 1 ounce: OR, Epsom Salts 1 ounce; Manna. < • • • 4 ^ ounce ; Hot Water, and Mint Water, of each , 2^ ounces ; Tincture of Rhubarb 2 drachms: of which four table-spoonfuls may be taken occasionally. Should these not prove sufficient to procure the natural stools in a sufficient degree, stronger purgatives must then be employed. Small doses of some diaphoretic medicine, such as three grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha made into a pill with some aromatic confection, may be taken every five hours, to de- termine the circulation from the intestines to the surface of the body, after proper evacuations, so as to produce and keep up a gentle perspiration. If the disease be accompanied with violent retch- ing and vomiting, a gentle emetic may be given in such cases. The contents of the stomach may be discharged by the mild stimulus of a decoction or infusion of camomile flowers, giving after- wards small doses of opium; and when the pains are griping and severe, flannels wrung out of the same, to which, for this purpose, poppy headd113 have been added, and applied as hot as the patient can endure it, over the parts, may afford rehef; but should these not produce the desired effect, it will be advisable to apply a blister. In the acute stage of dysentery the patient may be relieved by a warm bath of moderate temperature :—on his being taken out of the bath, the abdomen should be nibbed with some warm stimulating liniment. Take Opodeldoc 2 ounces; Tincture Opium 5 ounce) - Oil of Rosemary 1 drachm: Mix and use them for an embrocation. The patient should drink plentifully of muci- laginous solutions, such as those of gum arable, barley water, rice, arrow root, &c.; clysters also of a similar nature should be given, to which, from thirty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium may be occasionally added. All straining at stool should be avoided, nor should the morbid calls of nature, namely, the vain attempts to go to stool in this disease, be always attended to; for if these be always complied with, the straining which ensues will prove highly injurious. If the fundament becomes inflamed or ex- coriated, the parts should be anointed with po- matum or hogslard after each evacuation. At the commencement of the disease neither opiates nor astringent medicines should be em-114 ployed; but in the second stage, when the patient is exhausted by the severity of the symptoms and "^'^eir frequent return, they will be of service; ' observing, from time to time and during their use, to evacuate the contents of the bowels by giving a few grains of rhubarb. The following may then be taken at bed-time; viz. from one to two grains of opium, with two grains of antimonial powder, made into a pill. The next day, Take Extract of Logwood 1 drachm ; Chalk Mixture 4 ounces; Tincture of Catechu 2 drachms; Spirit of Nutmeg 1 ounce ; two table-spoonfuls every four hours:— OR, Take Aromatic Confection drachm; Cinnamon Water 5 ounces ; Spirit of Pimento 1 ounce; Tincture of KLino from 1 to 2 drachms : To be taken as the former, adding to each dose ten drops of the tincture of opium. During the tirne the patient is ushig these astringent remedies, he may take port wine and water, or weak brandy and water, as his ordinary drink. The tone of the intestines may be restored by the use of tonics and bitters, such as decoction of bark, gentian, &C.3 together with light nutritious diet and mo- derate exercise.115 All food which runs readily into putrefaction should be avoided during the course of the disease, as well as fermented and spirituous> *^ liquors. The patient's strength should be sup- ported with preparations of barley, rice, sago, flour, Indian arrow-root boiled in milk, varied occasionally for jellies, and gelatinous broths; by warm clothing, &c. As dysentery is ge- nerally considered infectious, every precaution should be taken to prevent the disease from spreading, by means of free ventilation and clean- liness, moving the patient's stools, sprinkling the room and bedclothes with a little warm vinegar, often changing the body and bed linen, &c. APOPLEXY. There are niany kinds of this disease, which consists in a sudden diminution and abolition of all the senses, externally and internally, and a loss of all voluntary motion, at the same time that the heart and lungs continue to perform their functions. Apoplexy makes its attack principally at an advanced period of life, and most usually on those of a corpulent habit, with a short neck and large head, and on those who lead an in- active life, make use of full diet, or drink to excess. Although young subjects are not ex-116 empted from this disease, it is, however, but rare, compared with persons advanced in years. It is divided into species, viz. the sanguineous and the SEROUS. When the disease arises in conse- quence of an accumulation of blood in the ves- sels of the head, or by an effusion of blood from the red vessels, it is called the sanguineous; and when occasioned by an exhalation of serum, it is called the serous apoplexy. The first is pre- ceded sometimes by giddiness, dimness of sight, drowsiness, loss of memory, a faultering of the tongue in speaking; but more usually it happens that the person falls down suddenly, the face be- comes red, and is puffed up; the veins of the head, particularly of the eyes, temples, and neck, seem turgid; the head feels hot, the eyelids are half open and stiff, the eyes prominent and fixed; the breathing difficult and noisy ; and the pulse, for the most part, is strong, regular, and gene- rally less frequent than in the natural state. In some instances, slight convulsive motions, wth grinding of the teeth, are observed, &:c. The second, or serous apoplexy, is generally gradual in its attacks; the face is pale and tumid, respiration is impeded and noisy, the ex- tremities cold and flaccid, the veins are depressed, the pulse weak, irregular, and intermittent. These appearances are sometimes preceded byii; swimming in the head, torpor, impediment of speiBch, loss of memor}'^, &c. The sanguineous apoplexy is to be treated by bleeding largely and frequently from the jugular vein and temporal artery; applying leeches and cupping-glasses ; blisters to the back, afterwards to the head, and then to the extremities 5 strong purgatives and clysters. Take Wine of Aloes | ounce ; Tincture of Jalap 2 drachms ; Infusion of Senna ,.. 1 ounce : Mix for a strong purging draught:— OR, Wine of Alo^s 3 drachms; Pure Water ,. 1 ounce. For a clyster,—Take Compound Extract of Colocynthidis, (bitter apple) 1 scruple ; Hot Water , 10 ounces ; Syrup of Buckthorn 1 ounce: to be thrown up immediately :— Or, for the same purpose,— Take Common Turpentine ,, ^ ounce ; Beat up with the Yolk of an Egg ; add gradually. Linseed Tea 10 ounces. To promote perspiration, give the following pow- der every four hours, in some thick vehicle:il8 Take Antlmonial Powder 5 grains; Lump Sugar 4 grains; Calomel 1 grain. In most cases of sanguineous apoplexy, the patient cannot swallow during the fit of this disease j great care is then required in giving me- dicine by the mouth, lest any thing get down the wrong passage and suffocate. When, there- fore, this is likely to happen, the attempts should be given up, and external means trusted to. If the apoplectic fit has taken place soon after a full meal, or in consequence of intoxication, an emetic should be given, provided blood-letting has been premised. The patient should be kept in the erect position, &c. When these plans fail, the stimulants recommended for the serous apoplexy and for palsy may be adopted. In the serous apoplexy, blood-letting is dis- pensed with. Emetics of ipecacuanha or tar- tarised antimony, or the following common emetic draught, may be given : Take Sulphate of Zinc (wliite vitriol).... 1 drachm ; Pure Water 10 drachms; Syrup 2 tea-spoonfuls : After which apply blisters to the head, sinapisms to the extremities, strong purges, as directed in the sanguineous apoplexy, with diffusive stimu- lants of ammonia, castor, asafoetida, and vale- rian } for example :—119 Take Aromatic Spiiit of Ammonia 3 drachms; CamplioratedMixture 5 ounces; The Acetated Liquor of Ammonia .. 1^ ounce ; Syrup of Orange Peel: of which give the patient three table-spoonfuls every two hours :— OR, Take Tincture of Amraoniated Valerian, and Spirit of Nitric jEtlier, of each 3 drachms ; Peppermint Water 4 ounces; Syriip of Orange Peel i ounce : To be given as above. People of a full and plethoric state of body, who are predisposed thereby to an attack of apoplexy, will act wisely by confining themselves to a very abstemious mode of living, carefully abstaining from strong liquors, high-seasoned food and meat suppers ; as well as a limited use of spirits of every kind, &c. PALSY. This disease may arise in consequence of an apoplectic attack; like which, also, it may be occasioned by every thing that prevents the flow of the nervous power from the brain into the organs of motion. It may also be caused by injuries done to the spinal marrow, from blows, bruises, wounds, fractures, dislocations, pressure on the nervesj poisonous fumes from Kiinerals j and by120 whatever tends to enervate the system, &c. -S^c. It usually comes on with a sudden and immediate loss of motion and sensibility of the parts; but in some instances it is preceded by numbness, and a sense of coldness, and at other times by slight convulsive twitches. When the head is much affected in palsy, the eye and mouth are drawn on one side, the memory and judgment are much impaired, and the speech rendered indistinct and incoherent. If it affect the extremities, and has lasted long, it produces, with loss of motion and sensibility, a considerable flaccidity and wasting in the muscles of the affected parts. When palsy occurs in young people, of full con- stitution, and comes on suddenly, and where the head appears to be much affected, or where it seems to arise from apoplectic causes, bleeding from the jugular vein, or temporal, may be advis- able; after which, any of the strong purges recom- mended in apoplexy may be given; but in old age, where palsy exists, neither bleeding nor purging should be practised. Where costiveness prevails, in such habits, it may be removed by means of some stomachic laxative; such, for example, as the compound tincture of rhubarb; rubbing the parts affected, as well as along the course of the back-bone, with some stimulant application, by )121 means of flannel or the flesh-brush, impregnated with the flour or essence of mustard; or else with the palms of the hands, and some rubefacient liniment, such as olive oil, and oil of turpentine; two ounces of the former to one of the latter; or, Take Spirits of Camphor 2 ounces j Tincture of Spanish Flics i ounce; Solution of the Subcarbonate of Am- monia > 1 ounce: OR, Mustard-seed, In powder, and Horse-Radish, bruised, of each .... 2 ounces; Crumb of Bread, or Linseed Meal .. 4 ounces; Vinegar, a sufficient quantity to form cataplasms to be applied to the soles of the feet, or palms of the hands. In addition to the gentle stimulants used to paralytic parts, stinging with nettles may some- times be used, warm fomentations and blisters; and, in some cases, warm bathing will prove highly beneficial. Galvanism and electricity are also recommended; and, when the disease affecta several parts of the body at the same time, sti-» mulants should be used internally as well as ex-* temally; such as mustard-seed, garlic, horse-radish, spirits, or aether, &c., in the following manner: Take two tea-spoonfuls of white mustard-seed three or four times a day, washing it down with cold water Q122 OR, Take bruised Mastard-seed ; and Horse-radish Root, of each 4 ounces ; Bruised Orange Peel 1 ounce; Water 4 pints: boiled down slowly to one pint; strain the liquor off, and let the patient take a wine glass full three times a dayj adding to it occasionally, thirty drops of the ammoniated tincture of vale- rian. Besides applying stimulants, tonic medicines, such as are recommended in indigestion, may be used internally, when palsy is known to arise from any debilitating cause. The palsy, or loss of nervous power in parti - cular limbsj which may be a consequence of that painftil and obstinate colic caused by poison of lead, is found to be peculiarly relieved by using the Bath waters, more especially when applied externally, either generally or on the part .effected. The diet in palsy should be light, nutritive, and of a warm, aromatic nature. Exercise, should the patient be able to walk, as much as the patient's strength will bear; and, if deprived of the use of his limbs, he may be carried abroad in a carriage, or on horseback. Rubbing the parts with strong stimulants should be frequently used.123 Flannel should be worn next the skin; eSwposure to cold moist air should be scrupulously avoided. Change of climate, from a cold to a warmer, may be resorted to. Where the appetite is precarious and fails, and the patient is sinking into a stata of weakness, Peruvian bark, and stomachic bitters, with other tonics, may be employed. When the disease assumes a chronic form, and is of long-standing, medicines which promote perspiration are proper^ with this view, camphor, volatile salts, gum guiacum, &c., may be given. Costiveness may be removed with purges into which aloes enters as the principal ingredient 5 and regular exercise, with warmth, frictions, and- rubefacients will go a great way in restoring the action and strength of the limbs. PALPITATION OF THE HEART, ETC. This disease consists in a strong and irregular motion of the heart, and may be a consequence, of disease, or of some malformation of this or- gan or the chest; it may also arise from fulness of habit, as well as from general debility of the system.. So violent is the action at times, that it can not only be felt with the hand, but distinctly seen, and, in some instances, may even be heard. In the course of the disease, and when it has proceeded to a certain extent, there is frequently, g2124 with shortness of breath, a purplish thige of the lips and cheeks, and a variety of painful and anxious sensations. In some instances it has terminated in death ; but in many others it is merely a symptom of the hysterics, and other nervous complaints. The treatment of palpitation will depend on a knowledge of the cause which gives rise to it. Should it arise from fulness of habit, bleeding may be adopted, with purgatives. Sec. If from weakness, the use of bitters, cold bathing, with other tonics will be proper; and when sympto- matic of some nervous disorder, in conjunction with these may be given musk, castor, aether, and other anti-spasmodics. In a case of palpitation of the heart, which came under my observation. Sir Astley Cooper, Bart., had prescribed the fol- lowing, with considerable relief to the patient, who was a female ; viz.— Take Tincture of Foxglove , ^ eunce; Spirit of Nitrous ^ther l§-ounce: A small tea-spoonful twice a day; occasionally taking the following pill: Take Calomel 1 grain ; Gamboge 1 grain; Squills 2 grains; in consequence of a dropsical affection of the chest.125 When the disease depends upon any organic affection, the patient should be cautioned against using any violent exertions either of body or mind, particularly fits of passion, sudden surprise, &c. &c. SYNCOPE, OR FAINTING. Fainting or swooning may be caused by any sudden or violent emotions of the mind, fetid smells, weakness from preceding diseases, after blood-letting, from discharges of blood, &c., as well as from organic affections of the heart, &c. During the fainting fit, should it proceed from loss of blood, the nostrils may be stimulated by applying spirits of hartshorn, and sprinkling the face suddenly with cold water; keeping the patient in the erect posture ; and admitting pure cool air. Where it is brought on as a conse- quence of weakness, &:c., the system should be strengthened by the use of Peruvian bark, sul- phuric acid, stomachic bitters, the cold bath, &c., as in indigestion or dyspepsy.—(See p. 126). GIDDINESS IN THE HEAD—VERTIGO. Giddiness or swimming in the head is not at- tended with danger when it arises as a symptom of an hysterical affection, or any other nervous disease} but should it be induced from an over-126 fulness of the vessels of the head, and not re- lieved in time by bleeding, &c., it may end in apoplexy or palsy. In the first case, recourse must be had to those remedies which are best adapted to the removal of the cause.—(See In- digestion and Hysterics). In the second case, bleeding from the arm, and from the temples, by leeches, or cupping-glasses to the back of the neck, with the frequent use of cooling purgative medicines, and spare diet, should be early em- ployed. DYSPEPSY, OR INDIGESTION. "This disease or deirangemeiit' of the drgestive organs, according to a very erninent surgeon, is the cause of almost all the complaints which the " flesh is heir to." It arises p'-incipally in adults, from between thirty to forty years of age ; and is most frequently met with in people who lead sedentary or irregular lives; in those who are inuch devoted to study, Sic. There is one pecu- liarity attendant on this disease, that is, it may and often does continue for a considerable length of time without any increase or diminution of the symptoms. Among the causes which com- monly occasion indigestion, are the following : viz. affections of the mind, such as great grief; an inactive life, profuse discharges, spirituousliquors, intense study, excess in venery, hard drinking, particularly of warm diluent liquoi*, such as tea, &c., immoderate repletion, the use of tobacco, opium, and other stupefactive sub- stances, diminution or interruption of the due secretion of the saliva, deficient secretion of bile, &c., diseases of the liver and spleen, ex- posure to sudden transitions of heat and cold, &:c. &c. The s\Tnptoms are, furred and white tongue, a disagreeable taste in the mouth in the morning; the breath, in most instances, notwithstand- ing the greatest care, acquires an offensive smell. With hard drinkers, nausea, and vomiting fre- quently occur in the morning; and in ruined constitutions, there is almost constant thirst, feverishness, loss of appetite and strength, short- ness of breath, pale countenance, languor, and to- wards the close dropsical swellings. In addition to defective appetites, in complaints of the stomach, there is a high degree of flatulency, acidity, and heartburn; the patient is frequently afflicted with costiveness, swimming in the head, ringing in the ears, palpitations of the heart, &g. And although dyspeptic complaints may be alleviated or removed by desisting in time from bad habits, and taking proper medicines; nevertheless, when they are of long continuance, so as to bring on a128 considerable degree of weakness, and pass Into other diseases, or when they originate in organic affections, they will most assuredly prove fatal. In addition to the symptoms above enumerated, the mind is frequently excessively irritable and depressed, and great anxiety is observable in the countenance. The slightest exercise is produc- tive of considerable fatigue and perspiration. During the night restlessness prevails, the sleep is unrefreshing, and disturbed with frightful dreams and startings, and occasionally with raoanings and a sense of heavy weight on the chest (the Tiightmare). It may also be complicated with other complaints. In the treatment of dyspepsy, three things are to be attended to: First, to avoid or remove the causes of the complaint; second, to vemove the symp- toms which contribute to, or which tend to aggravate the disease; third, to restore, if pos- sible, the tone of the stomach. In effecting the first of these intentions, the patient should implicitly renounce those habits and pursuits which laid the foundation of the dis- ease, that he may not defeat the benefit of the measures employed j by observing the most rigid temperance and regularity, removing to fresh pure air, shunning luxurious tables, and inacti- vity, observing regular hours, rising early in the129 morning, walking out in the fields, using simple diet, abstaining from drinking, smoking, &c.; in short, by avoiding all the causes which give rise to the disease. In the second place, and with the second in- tention in view, the symptoms which continue to contribute to or aggravate the disease must be obviated, if possible, by clearing out the stomach by means of a gentle emetic; such, for instance, as any of those forms already prescribed j by cor- recting acidities by means of alkaline remedies, such as magnesia, chalk, lime water, &c., by tak- ing daily three or four fluid ounces of the latter; or the following r Tal>.c Magnesia , 3 drachms; Rhubarb 1 scruple; Pure Water 4 ounces; Cinnamon Water 1 ounce; Compound Tincture of Lavender .... ^ drachm: of which two table-spoonfiils, three times a day, may be given: OR, Take Magnesia , 2 scrnples ; Rhubarb 5 grains ; Powdered Nutmeg 3 grains : Mix, and make a powder, to be taken morning and evening. And to allay the pain and flatulency in the stomach and intestines— G 5130 Take Prepared Chalk 1 drachm; Peppermint Water 2 ounces; Pure Water 4 ounces ; Spirit of Pimento 1 ounce; Tincture of Opium 60 drops : Make a mixture; of which two table-spoonfiils may be taken three or four times a day; to which a drachm of aether may occasionally be added. And, lastly, to remove costiveness, gentle lax- atives combined with aromatics; for example :— Take Socotrine Aloes, and Rhubarb, in powder, of each /.i,1 drachm ; Aromatic Powder 1 scruple ; Castile Soap 2 drachm; Syrup, enough to form the whole into a mass : which is to be divided into fifty pills, of which two or three may be taken for a dose :— Take Rhubarb 1 scruple; Ginger , 5 grains; Magnesia ^ drachm: Mix for a powder, to be taken occasionally. Stools procured at regular and stated intervals by soliciting them by voluntary and persevering cflForts, such as every morning, will operate as a powerful opiate in aiding the other means em-, ployed; and, although some days, nay weeks, may elapse before this regularity be procured, the patient will evidently succeed, if he continue131 his endeavours to obtain a motion every morn- ing- In cases where indigestion is occasioned by a- defective secretion of bile, in consequence of a diseased state of the Hver, spleen, or biliary ducts, calomel may be given to the amount of three, four, or five grains, every third or fourth night, made into a pill; succeeded the next morning by a draught, composed of three ounces of senna in- fusion, with a couple of drachms of Epsom salts*' To obviate the heart-burn and vomiting at- tendant on dyspepsy, a blister may be applied over the stomach. And, to accomplish the third object, viz. that of restoring the tone of the stomach, such medicines should be employed as are known to operate directly on this organ 3 as well as adopting other means which are calcu- lated to strengthen the system generally; such as aromatics and astringent bitters; * e. g.— * The aromatic tincture of lnpuline, as solely prepared by Mr. Mill, a gentleman to whom the medical world is indebted for some very excellent remarks on the treatment of indigestion, the use of the flesh-brush, &c. &c., is one of the most efficacious preparations of this kind. In gout, rheumatism, hypocondriacism, indigestion, and nervous dis- eases in general, where the constitution has suffered much relaxation and loss of tone, Mill's Tincture or Lupulinb possesses a tonic and restorative power; it is also the cheapest and most superior preparation of the kind hitherto oflTered to the public.132 Take Infusion of Gentian 6 ounces ; Tincture of Cardomoms ... 1 ounce ; Tincture of Myrrh J ounce : Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonfuls three or four times a day : OR, Take Gentian Root, bruised 1 ounce ; Sweet Flag Root, sliced ; and Cardamom Seeds, bruised, of each .. 6 drachms; Dried Orange Peel j ounce ; White Wine 1 quart: Let them infuse or steep for eight days; and af- terwards let the patient take a wine-glassful twice a day. The Peruvian bark, mineral acids, and prepa- rations of steel may also be given; the latter in particular, where the appetite is impaired and capricious; viz.— Take Wine of Iron 1 onnce; Infusion of Gentian 6 ounces ; Tincture of Cascarilla 4 drachms : Mix, and take two table-spoonfuls twice or three times a day: OR, Take Extract of Peruvian bark, and Extract of Gentian, of each 1 drachm; Sulphate of Iron j drachm; Powdered Myrrh r.. 1 drachm; Syrup of Ginger, enough to form the whole into a a mass, to be made into 60 pills : of which take three, twice or thrice a day; wash-133 ing them down with a wine-glassful of the infu- sion of cascarilla bark. In addition to this means for strengthening and restoring the tone of the stomach and diges- tive organs generally, the patient should take daily exercise on horseback, which is preferable to walking, where it can conveniently be indulged in, without fatiguing or over-exerting himself; he should breathe a pure, dry, and temperate air j lead a regular life, get soon to bed, rise early, and use light animal food for his diet, avoiding fari- naceous vegetables; adapt his dress to the climate and changes of the weather, attend to the state of his bowels, by never being too long costive. Frequent bathing in cold water, during the season, is also recommended. The mineral waters are of themselves powerful remedies in cases of dyspepsy ; and the Buxton water is found of considerable service in obviat- ing many of the symptoms of defective digestion, originating in a life of high indulgence and intemperance. Change of scene, by amusing the mind, at the same time that the body is employed, is of essential importance in dyspepsy, as well as in many other chronic diseases; and much, if not the whole, of the benefit derived from visiting watering places, may be attributed to the amusq-134 ment afforded to the mind alone, * while in the water itself there may be no virtue at all. Dyspeptic people should never make a full meal, but eat a little at a time and often; chewing it well with the saliva before swallowing Jt. Biscuit should be preferred to bread, whicH is fermented. They should not drink diluent * The justly celebrated Dr. Sydenham tells a curious story of one of his patients, a gentleman, who had consulted him for a length of time, with very little relief to his com- plaint, when, at length, the Doctor told him, that he really could do no more for him; but, that there was a Doctor Robinson, at Inverness, who was wonderfully clever in such complaints as his ; that he would give him a letter to him, and he was confident he would comeback cured. As the patient was a gentleman of fortune, he was soon enabled to set out on his journey. But what was his sur- prise on arriving at Inverness, when he found there was no physician there of that name, or ever had been within the recollection of any person then at that place. The gentleman returned, vowing every thing that w as hostile to Dr. Sydenham. When he arrived, he was in a very ill- humour, and told him, he thought he had used him very ill to send him a journey of so many miles for nothing, *' Well," says Dr. Sydenham, " are you better in health?" —" Yes," replied the gentleman, I am well now, but no thanks to you." " No," returned the Doctor, " but you may thank Dr. Robinson for curing you. I wanted to send you a jpurney with an object in view^; I knew it would do yon good; in going, you had Dr. Robinson in contem- plation; and in returning, you \yere equally busy in think- ing about scolding me."135 fluids at their meals, lest the solvent property of the saliva, an important agent in digestion, be diminished j nor should the quantity taken after- wards, at one time, ever exceed half a pintl The flesh-brush used over the region of the stomach for some minutes, about half an hour previous to eating, and a similar operation after a meal, is attended with considerable benefit. A moderate quantity of wine, such as madeira or sherry may be allowed; but should these disagree, and become acid on the stomach, weak brandy and water may be substituted for ordinary drink. Ardent spirits on no account should be taken. They are highly injurious, and cannot be too much avoided, &c. fiyPOCHONDRIAC AFFECTION, OR LOWNESS 0? SPIRITS, yAPOURS, ETC. The disease, known by the above names,. is a certain state of the mind allied with dyspepsy, to which it bears a strong resemblance; wherein the greatest evils are apprehended on the slightest grounds, and the worst consequences imagined from any unusual feeling, even of the most trifling kind; connected with which, as far as regards those apprehensions and feelings,^ there is always the most obstinate persuasion and belief, and the greatest displeasure is manifested136 by the patient, at the least attempt made to . reason with him on the absurdity of them. The treatment indicated in this disease, is to divert the attention of the patient from his own feelings by change of scene ; engaging his atten- tion by new and interesting objects; convivial society, various amusements, and rural sports j moderate and regular exercise, and gaining his confidence; condoling with him rather than ri- diculing his foibles; and persuading him of a gradual recovery from his ideal illness, by some innocent medicaments, regularly administered; together with the means laid down for the cure of dyspepsy. It is, unfortunately, too often the custom with those who are troubled with lowness of spirits, to have recourse to wine or ether fermented liquors, and what is still worse, to spirituous ones, in order to raise them, this practice cannot be too severely deprecated; as the relief is only momentary, and by far too dearly purchased by the greater degree of languor which is invariably sure to succeed the use of such stimulants, inde- pendent of the necessity of increasing the quantity of them in order to procure similar effects; a repetition of which irrecoverably ruins the health by laying the foundation of other diseases. Warm or tepid bathing is used by hypochon-137 driae patients with decided advantage, as a re- medy for watchfulness or broken and disturbed sleep, even when other remedies have failed 3 and both to the hypochondriac and dyspeptic, as a general stimulant, the cold bath is sometimes useful. Rubbing the whole body, morning and evening for ten or twenty minutes, with the flesh brush or coarse flannel cloths, conjoined with corporeal exercise in walking, riding, &c., are attended with good effects, both to nervous and bilious patients. The mental faculties should also be roused into action, by engaging the mind in the pursuit of some useful and agreeable object, recreation, or amusement. Opium is pernicious, and in hypochondriacism, in addition to the other bad qualities of a high stimulant, its continued use paralyses the powers necessary for carrying on the functions of life, bringing on premature weakness and general decay. With respect to the diet of hypochondriacs, it should be light, nutritious, and easy of digestion. Food of an acescent or flatulent nature should be avoided; the stomach should never be over- loaded. Instead of malt liquors—port wine, sherry, and good Madeira, may be used for ordinary drink 3 and brandy and water where, these disagree. Tea and coffee are improper articles, more especially so, if taken warm. Aro-135 matic herbs and roots, such as sage, balm, and ginger, or cocoa and chocolate may be substi- tuted for them.—(See Dyspepsy, p. 126.) HYSTERIC DISEASE. The hysteric disease attacks in paroxysms or fits, which are preceded by dejection of spirits, anxiety of mind, shedding of tears, difficulty of breathing, sickness at the stomach, and beating at the heart; but it more commonly occurs that a pain is felt in the left side, with a distension advancing upwards, till it gets to the stomach; and removing thence into the throat, it causes a sensation as if a ball was lodged there. The dis- iease having arrived to this extent, the patient appears to be threatened with suffocation, be- comes faint, and is affected with stupor and insensibility; at the same time, the body is turned backwards and forwards, the hands are agitated with violence, wild and irregular actions take place in the alternate fits of laughter, crying, and screaming; mcoherent expressions are uttered, temporary delirium ensues, and a frothy discharge of saliva issues from the mouth. The speism at length abates, and a quantity of wind is expelled upwards, with frequent sighing and sobbing, and the woman recovers her sense and motion without the least recollection of what has transpired139 during the paroxysm. She feels, however, a severe pain in her head, and a soreness all over her body. In some cases there is little or no convulsive movement, and the patient lies as if in a profomid sleep, without either sense or motion. When hiccup is a symptom of this disease, the fit alone consists of this convulsive action. It is usually between the age of puberty and thirty-five that the hysteric affection occurs, and more frequently in the single than in the married state, making its attack oftener about the pe- riod of menstruation than at any other. It is, moreover, a disease which often arises from irri- tation and sympathy. Women of delicate habit, and whose nervous system is extremely sensible, are most subject to these affections ; and, inde- pendent of this predisposition, indolence, a se- dentary life, affections of the mind, late hours, dissipation, suppression of accustomed discharges, excessive evacuations, low diet, &c., are among the exciting causes. An hysteric fit, however alarming it may ap- pear, is seldom attended with danger, and it never terminates fatally, unless it change to epi- lepsy or mania, or the patient be very weak and much reduced. If the patient be young, and full of blood, and the attack of a recent nature, bleeding propor-HO tionately may be em})loyed j but in weak, deli- cate constitutions, or where the disease has been of long standing, it should never be adopted. During the hysteric fit, the safest practice is to rouse the patient, by applying burnt feathers or rags, volatile salts or spirits (hartshorn or am- monia) to the nose ] to rub the temples with aether, and to put the feet in warm water. As soon as the patient is capable of swallow- ing, some antispasmodic medicine may be fre- quently prescribed, such as tincture of asafoetida or castor; the ammoniated tincture of valerian j camphor, aether, &c. In cases where the spasms are very violent, and the fit lasts for a consider- able time, opium may be added to any of the above :— OR, Take Mixture of Asafoetida 6 ounces ; Ammaniated Tincture of Valerian .. 2 drachms; Spirit of Sulphuric illther I drachm: Two table-spoonfuls every six hours OR, Take Fetid Spirit of Ammonia, from 20 to 30 drops for a dose: OR, Sulphuric JEther, from 30 to 40 drops for a dose in any vehicle. Costiveness is to be removed by gentle laxa- tives ; and where the hysteric fit arises in conse- quence of suppressed or obstructed menses, they141 must be again promoted by the means recom' mended under their respective heads. Women, subject to hysterical fits, are fre- quently troubled with spasms, particularly cramps, which are most apt to come on in bed, and when asleep. Where, however, these are mild, immersing the feet and legs in warm water will often remove them ; but where they are violent, the parts may be rubbed with some anodyne liniment, such as the camphorated spi- rit, and tincture of opium—two ounces of the former to half an ounce of the latter; taking, at the same time, any of the preceding prescrip- tions, in which either aether, opium, camphor, cr musk are combined, &:c. A diet of animal food, and wine diluted with a sufficient quantity of water, will be most proper in hysterics, which, like the hypochondriac af- fections, are apt to create acescency in the stomach, &:c. . EPILEPSY, OR FALLING SICKNESS. This disease comes on suddenly, without any evident cause, with a sudden loss of sense and violent eonvulsiva motions of the whole body. t>uring the fit the countenance is variously dis- torted, . After th« eonvulsioris have eontinued142 for a longer time, they subside altogether, leav- ing the patient motionless, though still m a state of insensibility, and under the appearance of profound sleep ; the patient, on recovery, having no recollection of what has passed. The epi- leptic fit is often preceded by pain in the head, lassitude, some disturbance of the senses, un- quiet sleep, unusual dread, noise in the ears, pal ■ pitation of the heart, coldness of the joints, sen- sation of a cold air, the aura epileptica, arising in some part of the extremities, and gradually creeping upwards, until it reach the head, when the patient is instantly deprived of his senses, and falls to the ground with a violent scream. The returns of epilepsy are periodical, and the paroxysms take place more frequently during the njght than in the day time, being somewhat connected with sleep. It is one of those dis- eases which are sometimes counterfeited for the purpose of extorting charity or exciting com- misseration. Epilepsy may arise from a variety of causes, such as mechanical, chemical, and mental sti- muli, especially the effects of fear, joy, anger, &c.;" sudden fright; fulness of the vessels of the head; worms; teething; acute pain; excessive eva- cuations ; suppression of accustomed discharges; tumours compressing the brain, or any part of143 the nervous system. It may also arise from an hereditary disposition. The cure of epilepsy must vary according as it may proceed from any of the above causes; that is, where it is sympathetic, and arising from worms in the intestines, the medicines proper for dislodging these vermin must be employed. In epilepsy arising from this cause, the oil of turpentine, as an anthelmentic, is recommended, in doses from half an ounce to an ounce, taken in peppermint water or any other suitable vehi- cle. When the fits proceed from teething, the inflamed part of the gum over the protruding tooth should be deeply scarified, the body kept open with laxative medicines, and the feet bathed in warm water. If it proceed from any sup- pressed discharge, particularly the bleeding piles, leeches should be applied, fomentations used to promote the bleeding, and purges of aloes should be given, &c. If from a plethoric state of the system, general bleeding, with the use of purga- tives, and abstemious diet, proper exercise, &c., the disease may be obviated here, as in every other circumstance, by avoiding the exciting causes. In some cases, epilepsy has been known to con- tinue, from custom alone, after the original cause has long subsided. In these cases, the object should be to induce nature to discontinue the144 custom. When, therefore, an attack, under such circumstances, can be foreseen, an emetic, given about an hour before its approach, may probably prevent it. When the predisposition to epileptic fits proceeds from weakness, which is sometimes the case, the patient should breathe a cool air, take nutritious food, daily exercise, adapted to his strength, particularly on horse- back, and go frequently into a cold bath, en- tering, at the same time, on a course of anti- spasmodic, astringent, and tonic medicines. The antispasmodics most generally used are, valerian, musk, aether, castor, oil of amber, oil of cajeput, opium, &;c. &c., given as advised imder the heads of hypochondriac affection and hysterics. The misletoe, as an astringent, was formerly the most celebrated in the cure of epilepsy. It was given in powder from half a drachm to a drachm, or about an ounce of the infusion twice- a day. Dr. Henry Fraser, in his treatise on epi- lepsy, still assigns wonderful powers to it, and gives several cases that were radically cured by it. As an antispasmodic bolus, previous to an ap- proach of the fit, the following may be given every six hours;145 Take Castor, ami Musk, of each ..7."".. *....Ti. 10 grains; Opium , 2 gvaiu ; Confection of Roses: Make a bolus. In plethoric constitutions, opium would be improper; but where there is no fulness, and the disease seems to depend upon irritation, or in- creased excitement, its use will prove a safe and powerful remedy j and, when given in the dose of two grains in substance, or sixty or seventy drops of the tincture, on the accession, the fit has been prevented; or, where this has failed, it has mainly contributed in moderating its vio- lence. Take Infusion of Cascarilla , 7...... 6 ounces Ammoniated Tincture of Valerian .. 2 drachms; Tincture of Calumbo 1 ounce; Tincture of Henbane li drachm: Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonfuls every six hours. The Peruvian bark, as a tonic, has been much used in the cure of epilepsy; but it appears to be best calculated for that form of the disease which recurs at stated periods, when taken con- stantly, Tlie misletoe, as an astringent, was formerly much celebrated in the cure of epilepsy, given in doses from half a drachm to a drachm of tho H146 powder, or an ounce of the infusion, repeated twice a day. Dr. Henry Frazer, in his treatise on this disease, still speaks highly in its favour. As tonics, the metallic preparations have been found more powerful than the vegetable ones, and those now most in use of the former, are the sulphate and carbonate of iron, and the ammo- niated iron, e. g.— Take Ammoniated Iron 1 drachm; Extract of Gentian Root 2 scruples ; Syrup, a sufl5cient quantity: Make four bolusses, and ^ake one three times a day :— OB, Take Tincture of Ammoniated Iron 22 drops, twice or thrice a day in a glassful of water :— OR, Take Sulphate of Capper 12 grains; Extract of Bark 2§ scruples; Opium 8 grains; Syrup enough to make the mass into 24 pills j one of which may be taken three or four times a day: OR, Take Oxyd of Zinc 2iscmplei; Extract of Gentian 1 drachm : Syrup enough to make the mass into 24 pills; of which two may be taken morning and evening, with two ounces of the decoction of Permian l3«ark.147 The oil of turpentine has been mentioned by several writers, as having been successfully used in some cases of epilepsy as well as in other spasmodic diseases, given in considerable doses without which no evident effect can be produced; carrying it as far as an ounce to a delicate, and an ounce and half .to a robust female; and, to about two ounces to a robust man, given in milk, fasting in the morning. This remedy, however, can only be employed with advantage in cases depending upon a cause not connected with any diseased organisation of the brain, where ad- ministration could only tend, in all probability, more to aggravate the disease, than to arrest and tranquillize it. Things the most light, nutritive and easy of digestion, taking care to avoid whatever is likely to prove flatulent, are best adapted to epileptic patients. Cheerful society, amusing pursuits during the intervals of the paroxysms, should be courted ; all violent passions and emotions of the mind must be guarded against; and the patient should be careful never to place himself in a dan- gerous situation, lest the fit should happen to attack him at-that time. When, however, the fit h present, the patient must be prevented from doing himself any injury; and, particularly, that he does not get his tongue betwixt his teeth. In H 2the mean time, nibbing the nose, temples, and pit of the stomach with aetlier, may go a great way in cutting short the fit, by its action on the organs of smell. Change of climate and mode of life are among the other indications laid down for the cure of the severer forms of this disease* ST. VITUS'S DANCE. *The convulsive motions which characterise this .disease are varied in different persons, while they generally affect the leg and arm of only one side. The lower extremity is mostly the first affected; there is a lameness and imbecility in one of the legs, and, though the limb be at rest, thfe foot is often agitated by involuntary motions, turning it alternately outwards and inwards. The affected leg is seldom, in walking, lifted as usual, but is dragged along, as if the whole were paralysed; and when the patient attempts to lift it, the mo- tion Is unsteadily performed, the limb becoming irregularly and ridiculously protruded. The mo- tions of the arm are no less variously performed, or it is drawn in by convulsive retractions in a direction contrary to that intended. The causes of this disease are general weak- ness and nervous irritability, and it mostly occurs between the tenth and fifteenth years of age. It149 is brought on by various irritations, such as those arising from teething, worms, offensive smells, affections of the mind, fright, horror, anger, &c. &c. Where it arises in children, it usually ceases again before the age of puberty; and in grown- up persons it is often carried off by a change in the former mode of life. It is not attended with much danger, unless it passes into some other disease, such as epilepsy, or when it attacks in a very violent manner. Bark in large doses, by increasing the tone of the nervous and muscular system, with the assist- ance of cold bathing, has often effected a cure. The metallic tonics, recommended in epilepsy, are more likely to prove beneficial than the vegetable ones, among which the bark may be enumerated. During the use of these medicines, attention must be paid to the state of the bowels, removing cos- tiveness by means of some gentle laxative. Elec- tricity has been used with good effect when other remedies have failed. Dr. Hamilton recommends purgatives, with which, he observes, he has treated this disease when the usual means have failed. And the oil of turpentine in large doses has been advantageously used, in all probability, upon this principle. In females, it is generally cured by the approach of menstruation. Dry cupping and dry vomiting have also b^en recom-ISO mended j and, for the purpose of restoring the general health and strengthening the solids, the following pills; e. g.— Take Socotrine Aloes i drachm ; Filings of Iron 2 scruples j Precipitated Sulphur of Antimony .... 1 scruple ; Syrup enough to form the whole into a mass : of which make 24 pills; two of which are to be taken every night, or oftener. A tea-spoonfiil of the tincture of asafoetida should be taken night and morning. SARDONIC LAUGH. This disease is said to take its name from a herb called Sardbnia, which, being eaten, causes, it is stated, a deadly convulsive laughter; hence it is called the Sardoiiian Laughter, or Spasmodic ,Grin. The symptoms are—a fit of laughter, which -arises without any evident cause, and often con- tinues to such a violent degree, for three or four nights, as to prevent the patient from sleeping"; producing considerable debility, frequency of pulse and other febrile symptoms ; either prov- ing fatal or going off spontaneously; which latter is more to be trusted to than any of the various medicines, such as musk, aether, camphor, asa- foetida, which have been employed for the removal of this disease, A large dose of opium (two or three grains) might possibly afford relief.161 TETANUS, OR CRAMP. This disease is characterised by a spasmodic rigidity of the whole body. There are several varieties of it:—1st, {Opisthotonos,) where the body is thrown back by spasmodic contractions of the muscles J 2d, {Emprosthotonos,) the body being bent forward; Sd, {Trismus^) locked jaw ; although these are only modifications of one and the same disease. Tetanus is often symptomatic of venereal affections and worms. The above affections arise more frequently iii warm climates than in cold ones, and are very apt to occur where much rain or moisture quickly succeed excessively dry and sultry weather. They attack persons t)f all ages, sexes, constitutions, and complexions, but the male sex more fre- frequently than the female, and those of .a robust and vigorous , constitution sooner than those of a -weaker habit. They are occasioned by exposure to cold, while under a state of profuse perspiration, sleeping in the open air, on damp ground, or by the pressure of irritating substances in the sto- mach and bowels—such as worms; or by some irritation of the nerves, in consequence of local injury, by puncture, incision or laceration. If the disease has been brought on in conse- quence of a puncture, wound, or any external in-152 jury, the symptoms show themselves generally about the eighth or ninth day, and are almost sure to prove fatal before the tenth day; but where it proceeds from an exposure to cold, they generally make their appearance much sooner. The disease makes its attack in some cases suddenly, and with great violence; but it most generally happens that it commences in a more gradual manner, coming on by a slight stiffness, being at first J)erceived in the back part of the neck, which, in a short time, considerably increases, and ulti- mately renders the motion of the head both difficult and painful. With this stiffness of the head, there is also an uneasy sensation at the Toot of the tongue, with some difficulty of swal- lowing; and great lightness is felt about the chest, with pain at the extremity of the breast- bone, shooting into the back. A stifiiiess also takes place in the jaws, which soon increases to such a height, that the teeth become so closely fixed together as not to allow of the smallest opening. When the tetanic affection is confined to the jaws, the disease is called, locked jaw. In some cases the spasmodic affection extends no further; in others, the spasms, at this stage of the disease, returning with great frequency, be- -come likewise more general, affecting riot only the muscles of the neck and jaws, but likewise153 those of the whole of the back-bone, so as to bend the trunk of the body very forcibly back- wards, &c. The disorder continuing to advance, every organ depending on voluntary motion becomes affected, the eyes are stiff and immovable in their sockets, the countenance Is hideously dis- torted, expressive of the greatest distress; the strength at last becomes exhausted, the pulse irregular, and universal spasm of the whole frame puts a period to a most miserable and excruciating state of existence. In the treatment of this formidable disease, the first object of consideration should be to ascertain the cause; for, however unmanageable any disease may be, the patient should by no means be left in a miserable state of existence without making some efforts to relieve, or at least to palliate, his sufferings; and the only chance of being able to succeed in either of these intentions, is a knowledge of the circumstance that may have given rise to the disease. For in- stance, should locked jaw be occasioned in conse- quence of a lacerated or punctured wound in any part of the body, the injured spot should be care- fully and minutely examined; and any foreign body that may have lodged in the part instantly extracted, by making a free incision into the wouncV h5154 Tliese steps being taken, a small quantity of ftrong lotion of opium- Opium 1 drachm; Water li ounce— poured into the wound, dressing it afterwards with a piece of lint dipped in the lotion, and lay- ing another piece spread with basilicon over the whole 3 moistening the wound with the same solution, every time the dressings are renewed, in the preceding manner: or, it has been recom- mended to use the lunar caustic,* by touching the wound freely with it, and afterwards covering the part with a bread and milk poultice. In those cases of trismusj where the jaws are so firmly locked as to prevent nourishment from being conveyed into the stomach, and where the teeth are quite perfect in front, it will be neces- sary to have some of them drawn, in order to pass down the medicine as well as the food; and when the power of swallowing is lost, opium, which, it appears, has been employed with the best effects in this disease, is to be administered in the form of clysters; as well as externally, by • An eminent French Surgeon (Baron Earrey) has, in similar cases, recommended the free application of a hot iron ; and, afterwards, bringing the wound te a state of suppuration as soon as possible, by means of stimulating applications.—Surgery.) i155 rubbing those parts most frequently that are prin-» cipally affected. Opium, given internally, is said to have its effect increased by combining it with other anti- spasmodic medicines, such as musk, aether, and camphor, the following, therefore, is recom- mended to be tried, increasing the quantity of opium from five to ten drops in eaeh succeeding dose : Take Musk 10 grains ; Spirit of Cinnamon 2 dvacbms ; Camphor Mixture 1 ounce; Tincture of Opium 20 drops OR, Camplior Mixture 12 ounces ; Compound Spirit of ^tlier 1 ounce ; Tincture of Opium § ounce : of which give two table-spoonfuls every three hours. For external use— Take Opium, finely powdered 2 drachms ; Camphor ^ ounce ; Hogslard 1 ounce: incorporate them well together for use:—- OR, Soap Liniment (Opodeldoc) 2 ounces; Tincture of Opium J ounce. A variety of other formulae and medicines might be here introduced, such as Barbadoes tar^ turpentine, the hot bath impregnated with156 quick lime, mercury externally and internally administered, &c. &c., but few or any of such means have ever been found successful. • Costiveness, which is an attendant on this ?lisease, must be removed by some active open- ing medicine ; and the patient's strength sup- ported Avith wine mixed in such nutritious vehicles as will admit of being most easily swallowed. As an opening draught the follo^ving may be given :— Take Infusion of Senna 1J onnce; Sulphate of Soda (Glauber's Salts).. ^ ounce; ' Tincture of Jalap 2 drachms ; Syrup of Buckthorn 1 drachm : to be repeated from time to time, as occasion may require, HICCUPS. This is another spasmodic affection, proceeding from various causes, such as acidity in the stomach, which is mostly the cause of the com- plaint in infants, for which a little magnesia or prepared chalk is the most proper medicine, with the addition of a drop of oil of aniseed j in these cases it is a primary affection; that is, not having its origin from any other complaint, it Is not fvttemled with danger.157 A common hiccup may often be removed by taking a few small draughts of cold water in quick succession, or, by the sudden excitement of some degree of fear or surprise. When such simple means as these do not succeed, aether, musk, and opium, will prove most useful, either combined or given separately. In the accidental hiccup of youth or very old people, a small quan- tity of any powerful acid may be given, such as a tea-spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, or a little pepperment water, acidulated with a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid. When the hiccups are vio- lent as well as obstinate, a large plaster of Venice treacle, applied to the stomach, sometimes affords relief; and, should this fail, a blister may supply its place. In hiccups arising at the close of any acute or malignant disease, or in consequence of a morti- fication, no benefit can be obtained from me - dicine; and they may be looked upon as the pre- cursors of a speedy dissolution. HOOPING COUGH. This is one of the least equivocal diseases, children being most commonly the subjects of it. It is supposed to depend on some specific .contagion rendering it infectious. It comes on158 with slight difficulty of breathing, thirst, quick pulse, hoarseness, cough, &c. In two or three weeks after the attack, it assumes its peculiar and characteristic symptoms. The motions of ex- piration, peculiar to coughing, are made more rapidly and violently than usual; and, after several convulsive respirations, a sudden and full inspiration succeeds, in which, the peculiar sound, known by the name of " hoop," is emit- ted. After this sonorous inspiration has taken place, the convulsive coughing is again re- newed, and continues in the same manner as before, until a quantity of mucus is thrown up from the lungs, or the contents of the stomach evacuated by vomiting, which generally terminates the fit; the patient is then enabled to resume the amusements he was engaged in before it came on, and often expresses a desire for food. It is distinguished from every other disease by the convulsive cough, followed by the sonorous inspirati(m above described ^ and, by terminating in vomiting or expectoration. The most favourable symptoms in hooping cough are, when the expectoration or discharge from the lungs is moderate, the fit neither fre- quent nor violent, the respiration during the in- tervals free, the appetite good, no fever, mode- rate bleeding from the nose, &c.159 It is unfavourable when occurring in children under two years of age; in children born of consumptive or asthmatic parents; where there is much fever, with symptoms of inflammation of the -lungs, too abundant or too scanty expecto- ration, great weakness, convulsions, &c. In mild attacks of this disease, where the cough and difficulty of breathing are not immoderate, it is advisable, (instead of bleeding freely from the arm, as recommended in the more urgent cases,) to take away some blood, by applying a sufficient number of leeches; and, repeating this step, if necessary. Where the difficulty of breathing is increased, or when the disease comes on with more than usual violence, a couple of leeches applied to the forehead, or one to each temple, repeating the operation should the symp- toms not abate, may affijrd relief 3 giving, at the same time, the following powder, three times a day, to a child between two and three years old : Take Rhubarfj, powdered 1^ grain ; Calomel ^ grain ; Ipecacuanha ^ grain. This treatment has often caused the hooping to subside, and restored easier breathing, with less pain in the head 5 in fact, it has, in many in- stances, cut short the disease entirely. Where .phe appetite is bad, with thirst;, the motions160 Mack and offensive, and feverish symptoms come on towards evening, the calomel may be increased to one grain j and two tea-spoonfuls of the fol- lowing mixture given every two hours : * A blister has been by some adNased at the commencement of the disease, when there is much difficulty of breathing; but the preceding treatment merits a trial before any other steps are taken j independent of blisters not being so ma- nageable in young children as could be wished, and the effect they produce being but of short duration. Some practitioners recommend the lower part of the stomach to be rubbed very frequently witli a stimulating embrocation, made as foHQW5;j covering the part afterwards,with flannel:— Take Tartariseil Antimony l scruple ; Pure Water 2 ounces ; Tincture of Spanish Flies i ounce. Breathing over the steam of warm water, to, which has been added a little vinegar or aether, twice or three times a day, may be of service^^ where the hoop and cough are violent. Take Tavtarised Antimony Treacle, and Oxymel of Squills, of each Water S draclimu; 4 ounces. 1 gruin; •^iiee Motber's Physical Sfnd-.BIedifal PQck.et-Book, p. 77^.,161 A late writer* states, that equal portions of linseed oil and flour of sulphur made into a mixture, and a tea-spoonful given three or four times a day, or less frequently, according to the age of the subject, has produced beneficial effects in mitigating the violence of this disease. "Some people," he observes, " consider it the sovereign remedy in this distressing complaint." As the body is usually very costive in hooping cough, gentle laxatives will be necessary to re- move it, such as senna tea, manna, &c. Stoned prunes, roasted apples, &c., which children readily grasp at, may also be given, to remove or prevent this symptom. Frequent bathing of the feet in warm water is likewse recommended. Change of air has invariably been found serviceable in this disease. Flannel next the patient's skin should also be worn; and the greatest attention ought to be paid to young children, by cautiously watching them when the cough comes on, to put them immediately in the erect position, bending them a little forward, to guard against suffocation. They should also, when placed in bed, have their head and shoulders raised. Their diet should be light, and of an easily digestable nature. ^* Dr. Waterhouse, {Boston, America.)162 PALPITATION OF THE HEART. This disease, as its name expresses, consists in a violent and irregular action of the heart, such as, for the most part, is felt by the patient himself and that not without a deal of uneasiness and oppression at his hearty and it is also manifest to the by-standers, if they apply their hands, or look at his naked breast; the pulse in the mean time being weak, unequal, and intermittent. This is a spasmodic disorder, and brought on by various causes alfecting either the nervou.s system in general, or the heart in particular. Every disease of the heart itself, such as a contraction of its valves and blood-vessels, an ossification, enlargement or polypus, impeding the free action of the organ, and evacuation of blood from it, are capable of exciting it to violent and unusual contractions. The same effect will also follow plethora, or too violent an impulse of the blood. The heart will likewise frequently palpitate from a violent excitement of the nervous system, especially where the consti- tution is endowed with a great deal of mobilit}'.* • Too great or too little mobility are disorders of the mnscalar power. The first is present whcB motions are excited by a very slight stimulus, or when tery violent163 Hence palpitation arises from any affection of the mind, and in hysterical women. It may also arise from an affection of the stomach, ocr casioned by v/orms, surfeit, wind, or from various acrid substances in contact with the inner coat of this organ. It also, not unfrequently, accom- panies the gout, when repelled or thrown froni the extremities towards the trunk of the body, or even when a fit is coming on. Sometimes it arises from general weakness of the solids, as well as from local causes : also, from any difficulty in breathing; in short, from a combination of niany of the before-mentioned causes, or from some of them producing others. The treatment of this disease consists in re- moving the exciting cause as soon as it is ascertained. If it arise from fulness of habit, -bleeding, purgatives, rest, and spare diet; if from weakness—bark, bitters, preparations of motions are produced by the customary stimuli. It is de- pendent on certain habits of body ; sometimes it is heredi- tary. Women have a greater share of mobility than men; infants have a great deal, often too much of it; youth less tiban infancy ; and old age commonly too little. A lazy, sedentary life, full diet, fulness of the blood, suppression of customary evacuations, &c. &c., produce too great mobility. Torpor is the opposite to too great mobility; as the op< posite to too great debility is rigour.164 steel, cold bathing, &c.; if it be a symptom of any nervous disorder—ajther, ca»tor, musk, opium, with tonics, will be proper. And should it arise from any organic affection of the heart itself, or of the large blood-vessels connected with it, which it is not in the power of medicine to remedy, all that can then be done is, to caution the patients against exposing themselves to any thing that may increase the action of the circu- lating medium, such as fits of passion, sudden surprise, bursts of laughter, violent exercise or exertion of any kind, either of the body or of the mind, &c, ASTHMA, . The asthma is a chronic disease, and may continue to give very great distress, at intervals, for a considerable number of years. * It is dis- tinguished into the humid and dry asthma. The former is accompanied with an expectoration of mucus or purulent matter, but the other is not. In the genuine humoral asthma, the patients are obliged to lean forward; the inspiration is short and spasmodic; and the expiration very slow. Asthmatic people have, generally, some intima- 1 * Sir John Floyer, when he wrote hit celebrated Treatise on Asthma, had laboured under repeated paroxyms of the complaint for tliirty years.165 tion given them of the approach of the attack, from a languor, loss of appetite, oppression, and swelling of the stomach from flatulence, which precede the fit; but it is usually near the middle of the night that the violent difficulty of breath- ing comes on. The duration of the paroxysm is uncertain, as it will sometimes terminate in three or four hours, while, at other times, it will continue for as many days without intermis- sion. During its continuance, the patient is in very great distress; is not able to lie in bed, oi- scarcely to speak or cough up, so great is the difficulty of breathing; and yet, notwithstanding all this apparent interruption to the free passage of the blood through the lungs, an inflammation in this organ seldom supervenes an asthmatic fit. As the paroxysm wears away, and in proportion as expectoration or a mucous secretion begins to take place, the disease usually diminishes; it is also sometimes speedily and eflfectuaUy relieved by a spitting of blood. In the treatment of asthma, blood-letting has not been generally sanctioned; as in many in- stances it has proved highly injurious, by prevent- ing or delaying expectoration, from which relief is to be expected. Purging also is attended with the same consequences as bleeding. Blisters and166 issues, it would appear, are only serviceable in those cases where asthma is a consequence of the stoppage of some long accustomed evacuation or habitual discharge, or, in the complicated caises of old people; but in pure spasmodic asthma they have neither been found to relieve nor prevent the fit. Costiveness, in asthmatic people, should be removed, to prevent an accumulation of acrid matter in the intestines, by proper attention to diet, assisted with a few grains of magnesia and rhubarb. Also, by an emollient clyster, to which asafoetidaor oil of turpentine has been added j viz. Take Decoction of Marshinallows, and Mixture of Asafoetida, of each 5 ounces; Castor Oil S ounce. This may be repeated, as occasion may seem t6 require. In the height of an asthmatic paroxysmj an emetic would probably be attended with dangerous symptoms, as it might increase the accumulation of the blood in the vessels of the head; at the same time, in humid asthma, and during the inte^^'als, that is, if the fit is eitpected in the night, an emetic given in the evening, will often prevent a return of the paroxysm, especially if there should chance to be any foulness of stomach, &c.167 A very strong infusion of roasted coffee has been found to give ease in a fit of asthma. Sir John Pringle * says it is the best abater of the periodic asthma he has seen. The coffee ought to ;be of the best Moka, newly burnt, and made very strong immediately after grinding *t. He commonly ordered an ounce for one cup, which is to be repeated fresh after the interval of a quarter or ,half an hour—to be taken without milk or sugar. Dr. Percival states, that he has frequently directed coffee in asthma with great success. Warm water, inhaled from the spout of a tea- ' pot, has afforded relief in severe fits of this com- plaint : also an infusion of camomile flowers. With the addition of a little aether, may be used, for the same purpose, and probably with better effect. In spasmodic asthma, smoking tobacco has proved of service. Latterly the roots of stramonium or thorn-apple, have been much em- • Coffee, as a medicine in asthma, in general, is men- tioned by Masgrave in bis Treatise de Asthritide Ammala ; but he first heard of it from a physician in Litchfield, who had been informed by the old people of that place, that Sir iohn Floyer, during the latter part of his life, kept free from, or at least lived easy under, his asthma, from th« ase of very strong coffee. This discovery he made after the pablication of bis book on this di»ease.168 ployed in the same manner, used moderately, cut into small pieces, and smoked in a common pipe. The dry or spasmodic asthma, during the ex- treme violence of the fit, is best relieved by opium iind aether, combined in the following manner; Take Camphor Mixture U ounces ; Sulphuric ^ther 5 drachms; Tincture of Opium 1 drachm: Mix J of which let two table-spoonfuls be taken every four or six hours. In the greater number of cases of asthma, in- digestion is a prominent symptom, and the pa- tient is much troubled with wind in the stomach. To remove these, the stomachic and absorbent remedies, and bitter infusions, advised under the head of " Indigestion," will be proper, Dr, Bree remarks, that chalk and opium will astonish the asthmatic by the excellence of their - effects, when the irritation proceeds from indi- gestion of the first passages only," When, then, this is the case, from a scruple to a drachm of the compound powder of chalk with opium may be taken. Small doses of the powder of ipecacuanha, to the amount of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 10 grains, given every other day, according to the strength and constitution of the patient, are found to yield permanent relief in dry asthma, by acting some-169 times as an evacuaiit, pumping up the viscid phlegm; at other times acting as a corrector of spasm, or as a sedative. Asthmatic people are very selisibly alFected by changes of the weather. They, in general, find much difficulty in living, with any tolerable degree of ease, in the atmosphere of large cities; though we sometimes meet with patients with whom this air, so replete with gross effluvia of every kind, agrees better than the purest air that can be met with in country places. (See Consumption, p. 200). When asthma is found to depend upon some other disease, whether it be gout, ague, or sinking in of a rash, the attention must be invariably di- rected to the primary cause. HYDROPHOBIA, OR HYDRGPHOUy, CONSEQUENT UPON THE BITE OF A MAD ANIMAL-—CANINE MADNESS, ETC. This disease, which arises from the introduc- tion of a small portion of the poison from the bite of a mad animal, for the most part, does not make its appearance until a considerable time after the bite. In some few instances it has commenced in seven or eight days from the ac- cident ; but the patient generally continues in health for 20, 30, or 40 days, §omeUmes much t170 longer. The bite, if not prevented, will, in ge- neral, heal long before that time, and frequently it heals up with the greatest ease; though, at times, it resists every healing application, and forms a running ulcer, which discharges a quan- tity of matter for many days. It has been said, that the nearer the wound is to the salivary glands, the sooner the symptoms of hydrophobia make their appearance. The commencement of the disease is marked by unusual melancholy, anxiety,' timidity, and sighing j severe pain upon or about the stomach; difficulty and pain in swallowing fluids, attended with a sense of suf- focation f dryness of the tongue and throat; pulse small and weak 3 slight fever: the progress and close of the disease being characterised by continual watching, laborious respiration, into- lerance of light and the motion of air, viscid froth issuing from the mouth, convulsions, &c. Sometimes the dread of water, the peculiar symptom of this disease, comes on all at once. There is an instance recorded of a person who had taken an emetic of ipecacuanha, for the sick- ness he felt at his stomach, being seized \\\th hydrophobia at the time he was drinking the warm water. The disease sometimes shows it- self like a common sore throat, and, the soreness daily increasing, the hydrophobic symptoms171 come on like a convulsive spasm of the muscles of the throat. In others, the mind seems to be first affected; and they are subject to despon- dency and melancholy, for some time, before a dread of water comes on; and when that dread commences, it is with an evident mental affliction.* Nay, the bare sight of water, of a looking-glass, or any clear or pellucid surface, will give the utmost uneasiness, or even throw the patient into convulsions. With respect to the affection of the mind it- self in this disease, it does not appear that the unfortunate patients are deprived of their reason. Some have merely, by dint of resolution, con- quered the dread of water, though they never could conquer the convulsive motions which the contact with fluids occasions j although this re- resolution has been of no avail, for the convul- 'sions, with other symptoms, increasing, have al- 'most invariably carried off the patient. • * Dr. James, in his Treatise on Canine-madness, mentions a boy sent ont to fill two bottles with water, who was so terrified with the noise of the water running into them, that he fled into the house crying out that be was be- 'witched. Dr. J. also mentions the case of a farmer, who, going to draw some ale from a cask, was terrified to such a degree, at its running into the vessel, that be ran out in great baste vrith the spigot in bis band. I 2There is no disease in which we are more at a loss to discover the causes than in liydrophobia. In dogs, foxes, and wolves, it seems to come on spontaneously; though by some authors this is disputed. The causes commonly assigned, but which are not sufficient of 'themselves for pro- ducing the distemper, are, heat, feeding upon putrid flesh, want, of water, &c. It does not ap- pear that madness is more frequent among dogs in the warm than in the cold climates. And it has, moreover, in confirmation of this, been as- serted that, in the island of Antigua, where the climate is very hot and water very scarce, this distemper has never been observed. With res- pect to putrid aliments, it seems natural for dogs to prefer them to any other, and they have been known to subsist for a length of time on food in the last stage of putrefaction without any bad consequences. For these reasons, it is thought that hydrophobia may arise from a specific con- tagion, like the small-pox and measles among the human race, which, being once produced by causes unknown, continues to be propagated by the intercourse which dogs have with each other, in the same manner as the diseases just men- tioned continue to be propagated among the human species. With regard to the immediate ^ause ^mong-173 mankind, there is not • the least doubt that the hydrophobia is occasioned by the saliva of the mad animal, after the bite, mixing with the blood. It does not, however, appear that this can operate through the cuticle ; but, when this is rubbed off, the smallest quantity of the rabid virus will communicate the disease, and a slight scratch with the tooth of a mad dog has been found as pernicious as a large wound. Neither do all those who are bitten by mad dogs fall into the disease.* It has generally been allowed, by experienced practitioners, that, though the hy- drophobia may be prevented, it can seldom, if ever, be cured after it has made its appearance ; as, when it has once manifested itself in the system, the power of medicine, and all human ^skill have, in most instances, completely failed. 'Death generally takes place about the third or 'fourth day from the first appearance of the symptoms. With respect to the treatment, as soon as a person is known to be bitten by a rabid animal, every possible means should instantly be put in practice to prevent the accession of the disease : and for this purpose, the most effectual is cut- * Dr. Vaughan relates that out of 30 bitten by a mad dog, one only was seized witli the hydrophobia.174 ting out the bitten part; and until a surgeon arrive for this purpose, it should be washed freely with salt and water, or tepid water and soap. Scarifying round the part with the point of a lancet is also recommended. The excision should be carried to a sufficient extent beyond the depth of the bite, taking care not to introduce the knife at the wound made by the dog's teeth. The sooner after the accident this operation is performed the better ; but it will be right to do it even at the distance of several days, rather than a chance should be lost, as there is great reason to presume that the canine poison does not enter so quickly into the system as some poisons are known to do.* Should the bite happen to be of long standing, and healed up, it should be opened with caution, if the animal- that inflicted it is really mad, and brought to a state of immediate suppuration. The caustic should be used in such places as do not admit of the part being cut out, and the part destroyed to the bottom by repeated applications. Bathing in cold water, especially in the sea, and drinking sea-water for a certain time, have been prescribed, and by some ac- counted a preventive. In fact, almost every • See Mr. Gillman's Prize Dissertation on the bite of a rabid auimal.175 thing that human nature could devise, however improbable, has been used without success. A long course of low diet; violent submersion in the water, even to danger of drowning; and keeping, as before observed, the wounded place open with cauteries. To this treatment Dr. Mead objected; and in his treatise on this subject he endeavours to show, that in all ages the greatest success has been reaped from such medicines as act on the urinary organs ; for which reason he proposes the following powder ;* viz.— Take Ash-coloured Ground Liverwort...... i ounce; Black Pepper 2 drachms : ^ To be reduced separately to powder, and then mixed. Among the other remedies that Avere cele- brated for their virtues in hydrophobia, were the Ormskirk powder, the Tonquin remedy, and the Carnatic pill. The first of these, which seems perfectly inert, on a careful analysis was found to consist of about— * This powder was first published in the Philosophical Transactions, by ]Mr. Dampier, in whose family it had been kept as a secret for many years. It was inserted in former editions of the London and Edinburgh Pharmacopoeias, under the name of Pulvis Antilyssus, but has long ago lost its credit176 Prepared Chalk Alum Armenian Bole i ounce; 10 grains; 1 drachm; Powdered Root of Elecampane, and a Few Drops of the Oil of Aniseed. In the Carnatic pill, the principal ingredient is arsenic^ a mineral much employed by the Hindoo physicians, as an antidote to the bite of rabid animals. The Tonquin remedy was made and directed to be taken as follows; viz.— Take Native and Factitious Cinnabar, of each, 24 grains; Musk 16 grains : Make them into a powder, to be taken in a tea- cupful of arrack or brandy. This, it is said, cures the patient for thirty days; at the expira- tion of which, the dose is to be repeated; but if any symptoms of the disease appear, it must be repeated in three hours, which is said to be suf- ficient for a cure. Palmarius' powder, composed of the leaves of rue, vervain, sage, polypody, wormwood, mint, mugwort, balm, betony, St. John's wort, and lesser centuary, was another celebrated remedy. It was ordered to gather these herbs in their prime, to dry them separately in the shade, and afterwards to reduce them to powder. The dose is a drachm, or a drachm and a half, taken every177 day. Latterly, the decoction of broom tops has been recommendedj and from time to time a variety of other remedies 3 none of which have hitherto substantiated their claim to the appellation of a specific. Mercury has been recommended to be used externally, by means of friction, and in- wardly in the form of calomel and turbith mineral, for the purpose, if possible, of raising a slight sali- vation; on which the efficacy was thought to de- pend. Besides all those previously enumeratedj bleeding, opium, bark and camphor, have been tried in very large quantities; in short, every thing which human invention could suggest; but with how little success may be judged from many well-authenticated cases. Cutting out, therefore, the part or cauterisation, we may, as yet, assure ourselves, is the only remedy on which any con- fidence can be placed. COLIC. This disease, of which there are several varie- ties, is characterised by a painful distension of the whole of the lower part of the belly, with a particular twisting round the navel, frequently attended'J ,ith vomiting, costiveness, and spas- modic contractions of the abdominal muscles. It arises from various causes, such as raw and sour I 5178 food, wind, a superfluity of acrid bile, long-con- tinued costiveness, hardened foeces, metalic poi- sons, derangement of the intestines, gout or rheu- matism shifting, hysterics, worms, the appHca- tion of cold, &c. &c.; and, according to the causes giving rise to it, ithas been denominated the bilious, flatulent, or hysteric colic^ all of which are accom- panied with spasm of some part of the intestines. The first, or bilious colic, is marked by loss of appetite, a bitter taste in the mouth, thirst, feverish heat, costiveness, and vomiting of bilious matter, accompanied with sharp pain about the navel; the former, as the disease advances, becom- ing more frequent; the latter, more severe and lasting. To allay the frequent vomiting in this type of the disease, with great irritability of the • stomach, a saline draught, such as the following, may be taken every two or three hours; e. g.— Take Subcarbonate of Potass 1 scruple ; Cinnamon Water 2 drachms; Distilled Water 1 ounce; Tincture of Opium 25 drops: To which add a table-spoonful of fresh lemon juice, and take it while in a state of effervescence. But, if there be only sickness at the stomach without vomiting, the patient may A ,iiK plenti- fully of camomile tea. Applying externally, to th« seat of pain, flanneli wrung out of a warm179 decoction of emollient hert)s, or a bladder filled with warm water, interposing occasionally fric- tions with some anodyne liniment, as opodeldoc, &c. When the nausea and vomiting have ceased, the patient should take an active purgative to carry off the offending matter; viz.— Take Jalap, in powder i drachm; Calomel 5 grains ; and treacle enough to make a bolus or two: to be taken for a dose; assisting the operation by thin gruel or broth. In many cases, the stomach is so irritable that it will not retain the medicine; when this occurs, the contents of the intestines must be evacuated by means of mild, laxative clysters at first; increasing them afterwards in strength, should it be found necessary; viz.— Take bruised Aniseed, and Camomile Flowers, of each j ounce; Pure Water., pint: Boil them over a slow fire until the water be re- duced to eleven ounces; then strain the liquor, and add— Glauber's Salts 6 drachms; Castor Oil 1 ounce OH, Thin Gruel .... Glauber's Salts Olive Oil .... 12 ounces; 1 ounce; If ounce;180 Mix them for a clyster. To be repeated until a due effect be produced. The second, or jiatulent coliCj is marked by a costiveness, pain^ soreness and griping of the bowels; a rumbling noise, distension of the stomach, desire to vomit, and coldness of the feet and hands. In this species of colic. Take Peppermint Water 4 ounces; Spirit of Carraway 2 ounces; Compound Tincture of Lavender .. i ounce; Tinctiire of Opium 1 draciim : Make a mixture, and give the patient two table- spoonfuls every hour. And, if this does not soon afford relief, the above clyster, containing bruised aniseed, may be given every three or four hours, and warm fomentations applied, with flannels wrung out of them, over the whole belly. Should the clysters not act sufficiently, an ounce of the compound tincture of senna with two drachms of the tincture of jalap may be taken by the mouth. Notwishstanding these means, should the disease increase in violence, so as to threaten inflam- mation of the bowels (see p. 50), the patient should be blooded, put into the warm bath, fomented, and a large blister applied over the seat of the pain. Inflammation of the bowels may be known from colic by the absence, or trifling degree, of181 fever in the latter, and by the pain diminishing by pressing on the belly. Third, or hysteric colic, is characterised by nausea and sickness at the stomach, attended with severe spasms, costiveness and lowness of spirits. In this, it is seldom necessary to use evacuations, unless obstinate costiveness prevail; when it will be proper to give some gentle aperient medicine; for example— Take Rhubarb, in Powder 15 grnins ; Spirit of Aniseed , 4 drachms ; Cinnamon Water 1 ounce; Tincture of Jalap 2 drachms: To be made into a draught and taken imme- diately ; administering, at the same time, every four or six hours, the following clyster; viz.—- Take Oil of Turpentine 3 drachms; Enough of the Yolk of an Egg: Mix them together, and add gradually about three quarters of a pint of thin gruel. Should there Jbe any nausea or vomiting, the patient's stomach anay be cleansed out with a tea-cupful or two of -camomile-tea ; giving afterwards some antispas- modic mixture; viz.—- Take Water 4 ounces; Spirit of Sulphuric iHtber 1 drachm ; Fetid Spirit of Ammonia ^ drachm; Tincture of Opium 60 drops ; vTincture of Castor ,,,, <«.<<., i ounce a182 of which two table-spoonfuls may be given every three or four hours. When colic rises to a violent height, the mo- tion of the intestines is entirely inverted from below upwards—a most dangerous distinction: it obtains the name of iliac passion. Its most peculiar symptom is vomiting of faecal matter by the mouth, attended with obstinate costivenesSj and a high degree of inflammation j consequently demanding the most prompt interference of me- dical advice.—(See next article.) THE DRY BELLY-ACHE, DEVONSHIRE COLIC, painter's COLIC, ETC. This species of colic is distinguished from those which so nearly resemble it, by obstinate costiveness, with a vomiting of a porraceous or leek-like bile, severe pain at the navel, shooting towards the sides, with excessive violence—strong convulsive spasms in the bowels and muscles of the abdomen, with a paralytic tendency of the legs and arms—bent position of the patient's body—long costiveness—an accumulation of acrid bile—cold applied to the extremeties ot to the belly itself—eating unripe fruits—irregular living—sour food or drink, are a,mong the causes which occasion this disease. Also, inhaling the fumes of lead, and frequently handling some of it§m 183 chemical preparations; hence painters and glaziers are frequently troubled with it. It has been called the Devonshire colic, from its frequent occurrence in that and other cider counties, from the cider being impregnated with the lead of which the cisterns containing it are lined. But it is a fre- quent disease in the West Indies, where no cider is made, and where there is only a small quan- tity of lead in the mills employed to extract the juice of the sugur canes; this cause, then, can- not be so general a one as has been supposed, &c. As the above symptoms increase, or are not alleviated, the spasms become more frequent as well as more violent; the costiveness cannot be overcome, inflammation of the intestines ensues, which terminates in gangrene, and destroys the patient. And at an advanced stage of the disease, stranguary not uncommonly takes place in a very high degree. This disease is always attended with some de- gree of danger, in proportion to the violence of the symptoms and its duration; and where it does not prove fatal, it is too apt to terminate in palsy ; and to leave behind it contractions of the hands and feet, which disable them from per- forming ther office; and, in this miserabfe state of helplessness, the patient may linger out many years of wretched existence. When it is brought184 ♦ on by lead, it is more ol stuiate and longer pro- tracted than when induced by other causes. In the treatment of this disease, if the symp- toms be very violent, the patient should be blood- ed, as early as possible, in proportion to his age and constitution, to guard against inflamma- tion of the intestines. After this step, antispas- modics should be resorted to, if judged necessary, to remove the spasms. Among these are fomen- tations by means of flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of poppy heads, to which some rectified spirit has been added. Frequent immersion in the warm bath, or taking the patient out of bed, and making him walk on a cold, damp floor, bare- footed ; at the same time, throwing cold water on his feet, legs and thighs; using large quantities of opium internally (five grains for a dose), or by friction with it externally. The application of a large blister to the abdomen, may be sometimes attended with benefit, clysters, &c. &c. The fol- lowing draught may be taken every six hours j viz.— Take Castor Oil i ounce; Mucilage of Gum Arabic, enough: Mix them in a mortar, then add gradually— Peppermint Water ounce; Tincture of Opium 30 drops: Mix 5 to be taken every four or six hours.185 For an anodyne liniment, to rub over the ab- domen. Take Camphorated Spirit 4 drachms; Tincture of Opium 1 drachm. Whenever the spasms begin to relax, and the stomach becomes somewhat composed, some mild cathartic should be administered, such as the preceding opening draught, or castor oil alone, or compound tincture of senna, or a solution of some purgative salt; assisting their operation by a laxative clyster, should the desired effect not be speedily produced, every three or four hours. For a clyster— Dissolve Extract of Bitter Apple .,.. i drachm, in Infusion of Seuna 16 ounces; . and add— Glauber's or Epsom Salts ^ ounce; Castor Oil 1 ounce, (Colic from worms, see Worms.) CHOLERA MOHBUS, OR VOMITING AND PURGING. This disease consists in frequent and violent discharges of pure, bilious matter, both upwards and downwards, with painful gripings of the bowels, &c. It usually comes on with nausea, vomiting, soreness, pain, distension, and flatulency in the stomach, succeeded by the preceding symp- toms, &c.; which, when not violent, after con-186 tinulng for a day or two, gradually cease, leaving the patient in a weakened, exhausted state ; but when the case is otherwise, the disease often ter- minates quickly in death; an event that not un- frequently happens within the short space of four-and-twenty hours. It may occur in warm weather, without any manifest cause; or it may arise from acrid matter in the stomach and in- testines. The treatment consists in arresting the inordi- nate motions of the stomach and intestines, by correcting the acrimony of the secreted bile; di- minishing their irritability by using copious, tepid, diluent drinks, of weak chicken broth, barley water, &c.; emollient clysters of starch, inarsh-mallows, linseed, &c.j giving large doses* of opium, both by the mouth and in the form of clyster, or using it externally, by friction, to the abdomen; warm plasters, and fomentations of poppies, with the addition of camphorated spirit; warmth applied to the extremities, the saHne draught in the act of effervescence (see p. 178), gentle laxatives, &c. &c. The next step is to restore the tone of the in- testines, by the use of stomachic tonics, and other bitter remedies recommended under the head of "Dyspepsy" (p. 126), beginning with the lighter preparations of this kind, such as a1S7 drachm of any of the tinctures of calumba, orange- peel, gentian, or cardamom, to an ounce and half of peppermint water; infusion of cascarilla or quassia, &c., three times a day, &c. &c. DIARRH(EA, OR LOOSENESS. The characteristics of this disease are fre- quent and copious discharges of feculent matter by stool, attended with considerable griping pain 5 each stool being usually preceded by a murmuring noise, and flatulence in the intestines, accompanied with a sense of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the belly, which subside on the discharge taking place, but which recur before the succeed- ing one comes on. In addition to these, theie is frequently sickness, nausea, and vomiting; the countenance turns pale, and sometimes sallow; thirst, bitterness, and dryness of the mouth, and yello^vness of the tongue; indicating the presence of bile in the intestines; the skin is dry and rigid; and, if the disease continue, great emaciation suc- ceeds. It is distinguished from dysentry and flux, by being unattended with either inflammation, fever, contagion, or tenesmus; by the appearance of the matter evacuated; which in diarrhoeas or looseness, is feculent, or mixed with alimentary matter; in the other, mixed with blood, and188 putrid; and from the latter being contagious, the other not. Diarrhoea may be occasioned by the applica- tion of cold to the surface of the body; suppress- ed perspiration ; passions of the mind j acrid in- digestible aliment; sour fruit; oily and putrid substances; the abuse of active purgatives; worms; retrocedent gout or rheumatism; and from a va- riety of other causes. In the treatment of diarrhoea, it is Usual to begin by giving an emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening, to cleansfe the stomach and to promote all the natural secretions, and some gently as- tringent and acid opening medicine the next morning, such as— Rhubarb 1 scruple ; Magnesia , 30 grains : Make a powder, to be taken iii a glass of cin- namon water : or castor oil, or purging salts, in the usual doses; drinking plentifully of diluent and demulcent drinks, such as linseed-tea, bar- ley-water, mutton suet dissolved in milk, toast and water,, and the like. Bathing the feet in warm water at night; taking, at bed-time, 10 grains of James's powder, should the disease-have proceeded from obstruct^ ed perspiration in consequence of exposure to cold, will be attended with much benefit.189 Strong purgatives, in this disease, are found to be improper, and ought only to be employed where it arises in consequence of a tenacious acrimony adhering to the intestines; in this case, Epsom or other neutral salts will be the most proper. Should the complaint have pro- ceeded from poisonous substances taken hito the stomach, the patient must drink plentifully of di- luent liquors, with fat broths, to promote vomit- ing, and a purge of castor-oil immediately after- wards, to carry the remainder downwards; after the operation of which, from 20 to 30 drops of the tincture of opium may be taken to allay the irritation of the bowels. Wlien it is occasioned by gout repelled from the extremities, the latter must be invited back again to these parts by means of fomentations, poultices, or blisters ; promoting, at the same time, perspiration, by drinking plentifully of wine whey. Should these means prove ineffectual, give compound tincture of rhubarb, an ounce; after which the following absorbent mixture; viz,— Take Chalk Mixture 4 onncet; Spirit of Cinnamon 1 ounce ; Solution of the Carbonate of Ammonia 1 drachm; Tincture of Opiun ».. • .j *|»i m h ' ♦ ^'^^f^190 Two table-spoonfuls of which are to be taken occasionally :— OR, Take Compound Powder of Chalk with Opium, 15 grains; Confection of Roses, to make a bolus : which may be taken twice a day, using a pint of the mixture of burnt hartshorn for ordinary drink. Either of the preceding absorbent remedies may be used, after the bowels have been evacuated, to subdue the irritability which accompanies the disease. Should a looseness be caused by worms, which may be known from the sameness of the stools, mixed with pieces of decayed worms, the medi- cines advised under the head of worms must be given to carry them off. If it proceed from un- wholesome water, the addition of a small quan- tity of chalk or quick-lime may correct it. When looseness is an attendant on teething, it should never be stopped, unless it go so far as to debilitate or otherwise hurt the child; in this case, four or five grains of toasted rhubarb, with from eight to ten of prepared chalk or mag- nesia, given, (and repeated, if necessary, three or four times,) will generally correct the acidity, and put an end to the griping stools. Should a looseness return frequently during dentition, or upon the striking in of some eruption upon the191 skin, it will be proper to procure a slight dis- charge from behind the ears, or to apply a Bur- gundy pitch plaster to the back. For this for- mer, a piece of tape drawn through a small bit of the plaster of Spanish flies may be placed behind the ears; or the part may be rubbed with finely-powdered Spanish flies until it excoriates. A looseness that is likely to prove critical or salutary should, by no means, be inconsiderately checked j but when it attacks pregnant women, it must be immediately stopped by the most powerful means. To suspend the increased ac- tion of the intestines, which constitutes the dis- ease, opiates may be given, either separately, in small and repeated doses, or combined with what- ever other medicines it may be proper to give. They may, therefore, be given with absorbents, as in the preceding, or with astringents, joined with aromatics and tonics; e. g.— Take Powdered Alum, and Extract of Catechu, of each. 10 grains^ Opium § grain ; Confection of Roses, enough to make a bohia: to be taken three or four times a day :— OR, Take Kino 10 grains; Compound Powder of Chalk, with Opium 15 grains; Syrup of Poppies, enough to make a bolus : to be taken every fourth or sixth hour:—•192 OR, Take Chalk Mixture 5 ounces ; Extract of Logwood , ^ drachm ; Pimento Water 2 ounces ; Tincture of Kino i drachm ; Syrup of Ginger 2 drachms : The dose of this may be two table-spooufuls three or four times a clay. It may be superfluous to repeat, that an emetic of ipecacuanha, with some stomachic purge, such as rhubarb, should always precede the use of everv other remedy in this disease. The medicines most proper to restore the tone of the intestines at the termination of the dis- ease are, the Peruvian bark, calumbaroot, quassia, simarouba, cusparia, iron, steel, &c. &c., as re- commended under the head of "Dyspepsy." Light nutritive diet of lamb, chicken, or rabbit, with moderate exercise, together with a proper quantity of port wine or sherry, or weak brandy and water, where neither of the former may agree, for qpmmon drink, instead of malt liquors. And, from whatever cause this disease may proceed, whenever it may be found necessary to check it, (and here some discrimination is requisite,) the diet should consist as above, with rice boiled in milk and flavoured with cinnamon, sago, In- dian arrow root, and the like. Those who are liable to frequent returns of ^i^rrjigea should live195 temperately, avoiding every exciting cause likely to reproduce it. DIABETES, OR IMMODERATE FLOW OF URINE. There are two species of this complaint. The one {diahetcs insipidus), in which there is a ,su-v perabundant discharge of limpid urine, of its usual urinary taste; the other {diabetes melUtus),. in which the urine is very sweet, and contains a great quantity of sugar. People of shattered constitutions, and those in, the decline of life, are most subject to its at- tacks. The characteristics of this disease are, great, thirst, with a voracious appetite; gradual ema-. ciatiou of the whole body, and a frequent dis-. ' charge of urine, containing a large proportion of saccharine and other matter, which is generally ' voided in a quantity greatly exceeding the quan- ■ tity of aliment or fluid taken into the system for, • the purposes of the animal economy. . It is not 1 unfrequently an attendant on hysterical, hypo- «chondriacal, dyspeptic, and asthmatic subjects j -but it is always much milder when it is a symp- ' tom of some other complaint than when it is a ] primary affection. A variety of remedies have been proposed for. I t^s disease 5 ^vit their ultipiate success has been K194 generally found to be precarious, or only tem- porary, at least in the mellitic form of the dis- ease. The mode of treating it has, for the most part, been conducted on the principle of deter- mining the fluids to other outlets, particularly the skin and the kidnies, whence the disease is said to arise. A diet, consisting exclusively of animal food, has been much extolled by Dr. Rolls, who was in the habit of using the sul- phurate of potass (ten grains, with the confection of roses), in the form of bolus, three times a day. And a case is, recorded which was successfully treated by putting the patient on a diet consist- ing principally of animal food, with a generous allowance of porter, giving, at the same time, the nitric acid, in the proportion of from one to three drachms of the acid to two pounds of wa- ter, with about two ounces of sugar daily. As this disease is still involved in much ob- scurity, and the treatment of it so precarious, I shall not offer any more on the subject. THE WATER BRASH. This disease is known by a bm-ning pain at the pit of the stomach, usually when it is empt)', coming on in the morning or forenoon, conveying * Medical Journal, vol. xxx.195 a kind of feeling as if it were drawn towards the back. The pain is increased by the erect pos- ture, consequently the body is bent forward. After a little time, an eructation of a thin Wa- tery fluid, in considerable quantity, takes place, sometimes of an acrid taste, at other times quite insipid. This eructation is frequently repeated, and, at length, it relieves the pain, and puts an end to the fit. It usually attacks those of the middle age, and females more frequently than the other sex, and generally the unmarried, and people in low life, who live much on a milk and vegetable diet rather than those of a better condition, &c. For the cure of this disease no certain reme- dies have hitherto been proposed, although its attacks may be relieved by medicines which pos- sess the p'ower of allaying or removing inordinate motions in the system, called spasms, &c., such as musk, aether, castor, opium, ammonia, with an occasional purgative to carry off the offending fluid, and small repeated doses of magnesia to correct the acidity and relieve the heartburn. During the interval of the attacks, Peruvian bark may be given. The oxyd of bismuth, in con- junction with stomachic bitters, as recommended under the heacl of Dyspepsy, may be used witK advantage. k2196 ATROPHY. By atrophy is meant a gradual emaclatlou and decay of the whole body, unattended either with a difficulty of breathing, a cough, or any evident fever at first, but usually accompanied with loss of appetite, impaired digestion, depression of spirits, and general languor.. From whatever cause it may arise, it is usually very difficult to cure, and not unfrequently terminates in dropsy. Those causes which most commonly give rise to it, are poor diet, unwholesome air, scrofulous disposition, debility and excesses of every kind, continuing to give suck too long, free use of spi- rituous liquors, uneasiness of mind, worms, &c., although it not unfrequently comes on without any evident cause. The beginning of the disease is marked by luggishness, lassitude on the slightest exertion, depravity and loss of appetite; wasting of the flesh; paleness of the countenance, Avith bloating; swelling and prominence of the belly; puffy swelling of the feet; bowels irregular and cos- tive ; change of colour and smell of the faeces; and foetid breath. The continuance of these symptoms are followed by alternate flushing and paleness of the countenance; the skin becomes hot and dry; quick and feeble pulse 5 thirst,197 frctfulness, much general weakness, and disturbed sleep. The treatment of this disease consists, in the first place, in ascertaining the cause of it; for, unless this be known, little good can be done. If it proceed from worms, the medicines recom- mended under this head may be given. If from severe evacuations, these must be checked or suppressed. If from over long giving suck, or in proportion to the constitution, or from sen- sual or other excesses, these must be wholly and firmly discontinued. If from bad diet or un- wholesome air, these must be changed as soon as possible. If from a scrofulous disposition, those medicines recommended under this head should be administered, &c. &c. Wasting of the body very frequently arises from a diseased state of the mesenteric * glands, brought on by a scrofulous inflammation, to which they appear to be peculiarly liable. This is the most frequent cause of bodily emaciation in children. The means of cure in this complaint are—to r * The chyle, or nutritious part of the food, passes from the Intestines, through these glands, into the thoracic ducts, from whence it is distributed to every part of the system, thronE;h (.he medium of the circulation.198 restore the secretions, to strengthen the stomach and alimentary canal, and to promote a healthy digestion. For this purpose, mercury, judiciously prescribed, will be found to be the best remover of the obstructions which, in most cases, parti- cularly in children, give rise to it. Bitter infu- sions, joined with aromatics, bark, and steel; rubbing the belly, limbs, and back-bone daily; and when the obstructions are removed, the cold bath will prove a useful auxiliary. The follow- ing,prescription may be given in the quantity of a pap-spoonful three or four times a day; viz.—- Take Infusion of Gentian , 4 ounces: Tincture of Cardamoms G drachms ; Subcarbonate of Potass .., | dracbm:— Or the other bitters, as advised in Dyspepsy, Among the preparations of steel, the subcar- bonate of iron, as a tonic, in many cases, claims a decided preference. For this purpose— Take Subcarbonate of Iron 2 to 5 grains i Powder of Calumba 8 grains: of which make a powder, to be given morning and evening: or, the sulphate of iron, in the proportion of one grain to three, with from ten grains to half a drachm, according to the age, of Peruvian bark, repeated twice a day. M^hen this disease arises as a consequence of suckling, the cure consists in restoring the wasted199 strength of the body; first, by weaning the child, and living on food of the most nutritious kind, as well as of the easiest digestion, such ^s milk, broths, jellies, sago, blanc-mange, saloop, Indian arrow-root, tapioca, eggs, &c., using a moderate quantity of animal food once a day. Wine, in moderation, may also be allowed, with tonics of the preceding kind, and those advised imder the head of Indigestion. Secondly, by removing the inflammatory affection, should there exist any, of the lungs; which will be best known by the hardness of the pulse, oppressed breathing, or a fixed pain in some part of the chestj by drawing blood from the part, by means of cupping-glasses, or by -an adequate number of leeches, to the amount of three or four ounces; but where none of these symptoms are present, it maybe enough to apply a succession of blisters about the chest. When inflammation exists, the diet must consist of vegetables and milk, omitting the bark and other medicines of a similar nature, and substi- tuting those of the mild laxative kind, with the saline mixture with nitre, combined with small doses of tartarised antimony. The atrophy of children, or what is called the weaning brash, occurs where they have been weaned too early, and in such as are attempted to be reared without the breast 5 and also A200 . where improper food has been given, with or wlth- . out suckling. It begins with frequent griping and , purging; the stools which, in the course of the disease, assume an ash-coloured appearance, are usually of a green colour, and it is not unfre- quently accompanied with bilious vomiting. This disease, if attended to in time, may gene- rally be removed; but if neglected, it often proves fatal before the sixth, or seventh week. For the cure of the complaint, gentle occa- sional laxatives, such as rhubarb, with absorbents and aromatic medicines interposed, are recom- mended, with small doses of ipecacuanha joined with calomel; e. g.— Take Powder of Ipecacuanha ........ 1 to 2 gi-ains ; Ginger 3 grains ; Calomel ^ gr. to 2 grains : To be mixed and divided into four doses, giving one every or every other night; paying, at the same time, a proper attention to diet, and, above all, a return to the natural food, the mother's milk, where this can be conveniently effected. PULMONARY CONSUMPTION, ETC. What is called regular tubercular phthisis, or consumption,, usually sets in with a short dry cough, and that so slight as to become habitual before it excites the attention of the patient.201 The breathing is usually more easily hurried by bodily motion ; the patient becomes languid and indolent, and gradually loses strength; the pulse is small, soft, and quicker than usual j at length, from some exciting cause, the cough becomes more troublesome during the night, the breath- ing more anxious, a sense of tightness and op- pression of the chest is experienced j expecto- ration, at first of a frothy matter, takes place, and is most copious in the morning, becoming afterwards more considerable, viscid, and opaque. The breathing, at length, becomes more and mor» difficult J the emaciation and weakness go on in- creasing ; a pain arises in some part of the chest, at first generally referred to the breast-bone, but, as the disease advances, it is felt on one or both sides, which is increased by coughing, and some- times becomes so acute as to prevent the patient from lying on the affected side. The face now begins to flush; the pulse becomes quick and hard; the urine is high-coloured, and deposits a branny sediment; the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet are affected with burning heat; the tongue, from being white, is now pre- ternaturally clear and red; and there is an ex- pectoration of purulent matter j all the symp- toms are increased towards the evening j the K 5202 fever assumes the hectic form,* having an in- crease of its paroxysms twice in the day, the first about noon, which is inconsiderable, and soon suffers a remission j the other in the evening, which gradually increases until after midnight. Each exacerbation, or increase of the febrile symptoms is usually preceded by chilliness, and terminates in profuse perspiration, and the de- posit of a furfuraceous f sediment. The appe- tite now often mends, and generally becomes better than in the first stages of the complaint; the outer membrane of the eye assumes a pearly white colour; during the exacerbations, a cir- cumscribed redness appears on each cheek, but, at other times, the face is pale, and the coun- tenance is dejected; food is returned by vomit- * Hectic fever is known by exai;erbations at noon, but greater in the evening, with slight remissions in the morn- ing, after nocturnal sweats, the nrine depositing what is called a furfuraceo-latentiotis sediment; the appedte is generally good, and thirst moderate. It is symptomatic of the green sickness, scrofula or king's evil, consumption, diseased viscera, &c. &c. t A. term applied to the sediment deposited in the urine of persons afflicted with fever, of a reddish or whitish matter, which generally appears within an hour or two after the urine is passed, and only falls in part to the bot- tom, the urine remaining turbid.203 ing; a diarrhoea comes on, and generally alters nates with colliquative * sweats; the emaciation is extreme 3 the countenance assumes a cada- verous appearance j the cheeks are prominent; the eyes hollow and languid j the hair falls off; the nails are of a livid colour, and much incur- vated; the legs swell and become puffy; little white ulcers {aphthce) appear in the throat; still the appetite often remains entire, and the pa- tient flatters himself with hopes of recoveryi, and is often vainly forming distant projects of iriterest and amusement, when death puts a pe- riod to his existence. The causes which predispose to this disease are very numerous ; among which are an heredi- tary disposition ; particularly shape of the body, obvious by a long neck, prominent shoulders, and narrow chest j a tendency to scrofulous com- plaints, indicated by a fine clear skin, fair hair, delicate rosy complexion, large veins, thick upper lip, a weak voice, and great sensibility; certain diseases, such as catarrh, inflammation of the lungs, spitting of blood, small pox, measles; par- ticular employment exposing artificers to dus^ * Any excessive evacuation is so called which melts down, as it were, the strength of the body ; hence colli- quative perspiration, colliquative diarrhoea, Sic.204 such as needle pointers, stone cutters, millers, &c., or to the former of metals or minerals under a confined and unwholesome air; violent passions, exertions, affections of the mind, as grief, disap- pointment, anxiety, or close application to study, without using a proper degree of exercise; play- ing much on wind instruments ; frequent and excessive debaucheries; late watching, and drink- ing freely of strong liquors; great evacuations, as diabetes, excessive venery, immoderate dis- charge, of the menstrual flux, and continuing to suckle too long under a debilitated state of con- stitution ; the application of cold, either by too quick a change of apparel, keeping on wet clothes, lying in damp beds, exposing the body too sud- denly to cool air when heated by exercise; and by every thing, in fact, that gives a considerable check to perspiration, &c. As it is only in the early stage of consumption that remedies are likely to be employed with success, the greatest attention should be paid to the first appearance of the symptoms. If spitting of blood be among the first of these, the remedies pointed out under that head will be proper, in order to prevent ulceration. When persons of consumptive habits, or born of parents who have the same disposition^ are attacked with it at about the age of twenty or sooner, in the spring of the205 year, every thing must be done to prevent the formation of tubercles and their consequent in- flammation and suppuration, as by this means the disease may be kept under for many years. In these cases, the treatment consists in bleed- ing from the arm and from the chest, either by means of leeches or cupping, keeping the body open with gentle laxatives, and a spare regimen. When there is any febrile heat, with a cough or pain in the chest, medicines which promote pers- piration may be given, such as small doses *o ^ grain) of tartarised antimony, or two or three grains of the antimony powder three or four times a day, together with the saline mix- ture and nitre. The patient's diet should consist of such things as are easily digested and nutritive, such as light puddings, milk, poached eggs, jellies, and animal broths ; the different kinds of shell-fish, such as lobsters, oysters, crabs, prawns, crayfish, &c. AVhere symptoms are but trifling, and the patient finds any difficulty in abstaining from animal food, he may be allowed such as is of the lightest nature and easiest digestion. Fermented and spirituous liquors on no account should be used. Milk is a very valuable remedy in consump- tion ; asses' milk, to the amount of three or four pints daily, has been productive of consi-206 derable benefit, and butter-milk, the com- mencement of the disease, has, in many cases, done much good. It should be taken sparingly at first, and gradually increased in quantity, to make it sit easily on the stomach. Women's milk has also been recommended, but in conse- quence of the difficulty of procuring it in suffi- cient quantity, asses' milk or that of cows is obliged to be substituted^ The patient, to assist in preventing inflamma- tion of the tubercles in the lungs, should sedu- lously avoid all irritation of the affected part, such as singing, playing on wind instruments, &c.; he should never go into crowded rooms j refrain from placing his body in such positions, either in writing, reading, &c., as may tend to straiten the capacity of the chest; carefully shunning all bodily exercises that require much exertion; and particularly to guard against ex- posure to cold. Flannel or calico should be worn next the skin, and worsted or cotton stock-, ings. The cold and variable temperature of the winter in England is the great source of con- sumption in this country,* and when the disease * Sir James Macgregor, in his Sketch of the Medical History of the British Armies in the Peninsula of Spain and Portugal, in the fourth volume of the Medico-Ckirur-207 is once formed it contributes greatly to its fatal termination. A warm and uniform temperature, in some measure, prevents the formation of the disease, and, when it has only taken place in a slight degree, has a tendency to retard its pro- gress. It is a fact sufficiently known, that a warm climate is only beneficial in incipient con- sumption. In arresting pulmonary inflammation, the fox- glove has been extolled by some writers; and in the early stage of the disease, when the powers of the system are not broken down, it will mode- rate the pulse, and diminish the hectic fever. This powerful medicine, however, requires to be administered with much caution, as well as dis- crimination. In the early stage of the disease, an emetic of from ten to fifteen grains of the sulphate of copper every second or third day, in two ounces of water, has been attended with good effect. gical transactions, states that, in the early stage of consumption the disease was checked by the climate, among those of the army previously affected with it; but that after suppuration and relaxation had taken place, it ran even a more rapid progress than in England. The same observations bave been made in the East and West Indies.208 Vomiting soon comes on after it is taken into the stomach, and its effects may be assisted by drinking a few tumblers full of luke-warm water. During the intervals the patient may take two table-spoonfuls four times a day of the following mixture : Dissolve of Myrrh .. 1 drachm, in a mortar, with Spirit of Pimento G drachms j Distilled Water oances j then add Subcarbonate of Potass J drachm ; Sulphate of Iron 12 grains ; Syrup 2 drachms. This mixture has been given with much good effect, in incipient constraiption, using the above emetic twice a week. It is known by the name of Griffith's myrrh mixture. A spoonful of the following, when the cough is troublesome in the first stage of the disease^ may also be given ; viz.— Take Almond Mixture 8 ounces i Oxymel of Squills i ounce ; Camphorated Tincture of Opium (Pa- regoric) 2^ drachms ; Tincture of Foxglove 25 drops :— OR, Spermaceti , 2 drachms j Yolk of an Egg, enough for solution ;209 then acid Pennyroyal Water G ounces ; Nitrate of Potass (Nitre) 1 scruple ; Tincture of Foxglove 50 drops ; Syrup of Tolu i ounce : And mix the following for ordinary drink— Decoction of Barley 2 pints; . Gnra Arabic 3 drachms ; Syrup of Lemon I5 ounce. Iceland moss is a favourite remedy with the phy- sicians of the continent. It is chiefly recom- mended in those instances where the cough is at- tended with purulent expectoration, in cases preceded by or accompanied with spitting of blood. The Iceland moss is commonly given in the form of decoction 5 * an ounce and a half of the moss being boiled in a quart of milk. Of this a tea-cupful is directed to be drank frequently in the course of the day. If milk disagree with the stomach, a simple decoction of the moss in water is to be used 3 taking care to boil it over a slow fire, and not longer than a quarter of an hour. Or to make the jelly— Take Iceland Moss 4 ounces ; Water, enough to strain pint; White Sugar 4 ounces; This is more agreeable to the palate than the for- mer; although both arc equally nutritive and tonic. ♦ See Appendix.210 Means similar to the foregoing should be re- sorted to during the first stage of consumption. In the second or latter stages the attention must be directed towards mitigating the most distressing symptoms, such as cough, diarrhoea, and colli- quative sweats; supporting the general health by air, moderate exercise, and mild nutritive food. To palliate the cough, the almond mixture, as already advised (p. 208), will be of service; and, if the patient's rest be much disturbed by night, then from half to one grain of opium may be taken at bed-time. When a looseness arises, it is to be stopped by astringents combined with opium, as recommended further on, under that head. When spitting of blood is an exciting symptom, supertartrite of lead and opium, as ad- vised under this head, will also be advisable. Sec. Vegetable acids, such as oranges and other fruits yielding an acid but not an acrid juice, have been much recommended to counteract the eifects of absorption; on which the hectic fever is said to depend. It would be superfluous here to detail the vari- ous remedies and manner of treating pulmonary consumption; as well as the diversity of opinion which prevails among many eminent practi- tioners on this subject. Very little indeed, if211 any thing, can be done in the latter stages of this disease, beyond making the road to the grave as httle irksome and painful to the patient as possible. CORPULENCE. When corpulence reaches a certain extent it then becomes an absolute disease. Persons pre- disposed to this state of body, who are enabled to indulge in good feeding and much sleep, a calm indolent life, free from mental inquietude, are sure to be visited by. it. As corpulence depends upon too great an ac- cumulation of fat, the patient should endeavour to get rid of it gradually, without injury to the constitution, by diminishing his usual quantity of nourishment, and substituting less nutritious sub- stances. He should abstain from drink, parti- cularly fermented liquors, eat no suppers^ use much exercise by day, take short rest, rise early every morning, &c.; by these and such like means, corpulence may be reduced in a gradual manner, without injuring the general health. The nitric acid, in the proportion of two drachms to a pint of water daily, has been ad- vised to reduce a corpulent habit; and among other medicines, conjoined with the above me- thod of training, promoting perspiration, with212 occasional moderate purging, have been em- ployed, &c. FLATULENT SWELLINGS. EMPHYSEMA, TYMPANY, OR DRUM-BELLY. Emphysema is a collection of air in the cellu- lar membrane,* generally confined to one place, but in , some instances extending over the whole body. Tympany or drum-belly, con- sists in a violent distension of the intestines, or the cavity of the abdomen, by wind. The first is known from the crackling noise and elasticity of the part, produced upon pressure, and is some- times attended with considerable difficulty of breathing, oppression, and anxiety; and is a dis- ease by no means unattended with danger 3 but more probably from the cause which gives rise to it than from the complaint itself. As emphysema most commonly arises from a wound or other injury done to the chest, which at the same time affects the lungs, as in the case of a fractured rib, the ragged ends penetrating the lin- ing membrane and substance of this viscus admit- * The cellular tissue, composed of several Ia}ers of fibres variously joined together, which is the connecting niedinni of every part of the body. It is by means of the communi- cation of the cells of this membrane, that the butchers blow up their veal.213 ting the air into the celluhir membrane^ it requires the assistance of surgery in the first instance, to evacuate the collected air by means of scarifica- tions, assisted with proper pressure of the hand. The violent difficulty of breathing and anxiety which Is occasioned by it being relieved by bleed- ing and purgatives ; rubbing over the skin some spermaceti ointment to mitigate the pain and uneasiness arising from its over-distension. Tympany or drum-belly has been supposed, when existing in the intestines, to arise from the sudden suppression of diarrhoea or dysentery, or as a consequence of febrile diseases, or the sud- den drying up of long-continued discharges— from cutaneous eruptions or crude vegetable food; and when it is seated in the cavity of the abdo- men, pain, erosim or ulceration of the intestines, the effect also of preceding complaints. It some- times comes on suddenly, at others it is more slow in its progress, and preceded, from what- ever causes, by great flatulency, rumbling of the Intestines, and a discharge of wind upwards and downwards, attended with colic pains, &:c. &c. The belly becomes enormously swelled, breathing difficult, &c.; and gangrene not unfrequently puts an end to the scene. Tympany may be distinguished from dropsy of the lower belly by the absence of fluctuation,214 by the tense feel of the abdomen, by the state of the bowels, which is usually very costive; and by the urine, which at first is neither altered in quality nor quantity, &c. It is an obstinate and dangerous disease, frequently terminating in dropsy, portraying in the end, the same emaci- ation, dry cough, and hectic state; but may be regarded in a favourable point of view when, with a constitution unimpaired, there are fre- quent explosions of wind, showing that the air is confined in the intestines, and not in the cavity of the abdomen. The treatment principally consists in giving carminatives, (medicines with the property of expelling wind), essential oils, spices, stomachics, in the following forms, or as recommended in Byspepsy: Take Aromatic Spirit of Mther 3 drachms ; Camphor Mixture '. 7 ounces; Syrup of Giuger . ^ ounce ; Compound Tincture of Camphor .... J ounce : Three table-spoonfuls to be taken every four hours :— OK, Take Oil of Aniseed 12 drops ; Powder of Gum Arabic 4 drachms; Syrup of Roses .'. 5 ounce ; Aniseed Water 7 ounces : OR, Compound Povrder of Cinnamon, and Extract of Gentian, of each .,,,,» 12 grains:215 Make a bolus, and repeat it every four hours; with two table-spoonfuls of the following; viz.— Take Camphor Mixture, and Peppermint Water, of each 3 ounces ; Spirit of Sulphuric ^Ether 1^ drachm ; Compound Tincture of Cardamoms jounce. Costiveness may be obviated by the occasional use of laxative medicines, joined with aromatics and essential oil, or by means of clysters fre- quently repeated; and, where these fail of pro- curing the necessary evacuations, active purga- tives must be employed; e. g.— Take Compound Tincture of Senna 1 ounce ; Tincture of Jalap 2 drachms; for a cathartic draught:— OR, Take Compound Extract of Colocynth (Bitter Apple) 25 grains; Submuriate of Mercury (Calomel) .... 5 grains; Oil of Caraway, enough to form the whole into a vproper consis- tency, to be divided into four pills to be taken at once. For a clyster— Take bruised Aniseeds 3 drachms ; Camomile Flowers i ounce; Water li pint; boil down to three quarters of a pint, strain and add Sulphate of Soda., ^ ounce; Oil of Turpentine, from 2 drachms to » ounce. I216 Asafoetlda, aether, &c., with infusion of horse- radish and ginger, &;c., have often proved useful in tympany, therefore ought not to be neglected. Friction, with the naked hand, a coarse towel, or with stimulating embrocations, such as the oil of turpentine, camphor liniment, &;c., have prov- ed serviceable, &:c. &c. This disease, in desperate cases, where the air is confined in the lower belly, has been relieved by tapping to let it out. When confined in the intestines, an unarmed clyster pipe retained in the rectum for some time, facilitates the escape of the flatus, 8cc. In recovering from this complaint, the patient should pay the utmost attention in regulating his diet and mode of living, by avoiding every thing likely to reproduce it. At the same time, he must guard againt costiveness by the occasional use of some stomach aperient, and endeavour to strengthen his body by gentle exercise, and the other means recommended, wherever the consti- tution has been debilitated by disease. WATEltY SWELLINGS, OR DROPSY. A dropsy is a collection of serous, or whey-like fluid contained in the cellular membrane, in the viscera, or circumscribed cavities of the body, im- peding or pveven^ing thQ fuwQtious of life, and217 receiving different names, according to the par- ticular situation in which it is contained: first, then, of dropsy of the cellular membrane (anasarca). This species of dropsy arises from a serous humour, diffused between the skin and flesh, or ; rather from what is termed a general accumulation • of lymph in the cellular system. It shows itself, ! at first, with a swelling of the feet and ancles ' towards the evening, which, for a time, disappears again in the morning. The swelling is soft and inelastic, and, when pressed upon by the finger, retains the mark or impression, thus made, for ? some time after. The swelling, by degrees, . ascends upwards, and occupies the trunk of the body; at length the face and eyelids a[)pear full ; and bloated; breathing becomes difficult; the urine i is small in quantity, high-coloured, and deposits I a reddish sediment; the belly is bound; perspi- ! ration is obstructed; the countenance assumes a ^yellow tint; there is considerable thirst, with a ^ wasting of the whole body. To these symptoms, ! torpor and heaviness, a troublesome cough and ' How fever; succeed. In some cases the water oozes out through the pores of the scarf L218 skin; but in others, where the fluid is too gross to escape by these, it raises the skin in small blisters, &c. &c. The causes of dropsy are a hereditary or family predisposition, frequent salivations, excessive and long-continued evacuations, free use of spirituous and fermented liquors, (which never fail to destroy the powers of digestion), indur- ations of the abdominal viscera, &c. preceding complaints, as the jaundice, diarrhoea, dysenter)', consumption, asthma, gout, agues of long con- tinuance, scarlet fever, and some diseases of the eruptive kind, &e. &c., with whatever disposes the body to a state of preternatural relaxation. The disease is always to be regarded as admit- ting more readily of a cure when it arises from local weakness or general debility than when it has been occasioned by venereal obstruction 5 as likewise when it is recent than when of long conti- nuance. The skin becoming somewhat moist, vnth. a diminution of thirst, and an increase in the flow of urine are to be considered as very favour- able symptoms. In some few cases nature makes powerful efforts of her own accord, and the dis- ease goes off spontaneously, either by vomiting, purging, or an unusual discharge of .urine; but this does not frequently happen. At an early stage of dropsy, issues, made with219 caustic, below one or both knees; blisters, and the application of colewort leaves, have been employed to evacuate the fluid, as well as slight scarifications made into the cellular membrane, as deep incisions into dropsical parts are apt to run into gangrene. Emetics, purgatives, dia- phoretics, and diuretics, are also used for the purpose of exciting the excretions to carry off the fluid; but if these are found to weaken the patient without alleviating the disease, they must not be continued. An emetic of the sulphate of copper appears the most proper, as having less tendency to exhaust the strength of the patient than any other generally used; e. g.— Take Sulphate of Copper 6 to 10 grains; Powder of Ipecacuanha 5 grains; To be taken every second or third morning. As a purgative, with a view of carrying off a portion of the water collected by stool:—- Take Scammony 12 grains; Submuriate of Mercury 6 grains ; Powdered Ginger 6 grains: Mix for a dose:~ OR, Take Extract of Elaterimn 7f grains; Sulphate of Potass i scruple ; Hard Soap i drachm ; Powdered Ginger .. • > .. i. i,».. i drachm: L 2220 Mix the sulphate of potass and the elaterium to- gether; then add the ginger j afterwards blend all together with the soap; moisten with water, and make the whole into a mass, and divide it nto pills; of which, take one or two every hour until the bowels are freely unloaded. This is a very excellent form of administering elaterium (wild cucumber) in dropsical and other cases, where it is desirable to have recourse to this active medicine. Purgatives, to be used with advantage in drop- sical cases, should be repeated at as short in- tervals as the patient can bear; for, when purging is not carried to the degree of quickly exciting absorption, the evacuation weakens the system, and increases the afflux of fluids to the hydropic parts. The supertartrate of potass (cream of tartar or crystals of tartar) is a very powerful remedy, and is administered in doses of two or three drachms every hour, till copious evacuations are produced, either by urine or stool; using, at the same time, tepid diluent drinks plentifully. This medicine should be taken every or every other morning, according to the strength of the patient j and as the thirst is a very distressing sjTuptom in this disease, the patient should be allowed to talie a« muc^i wa^r, or jnM mucilaginous liquids,221 acidulated with the crystals of tartar, as may suit his palate. Promoting perspiration has been deemed be- neficial in dropsy, but it is not much depended upon, nor is it even used where there is much general debility. To promote the flow of urine, diuretics—as the oxymel of meadow saffron, squills, acetate of potass, spirit of nitrous aether, ficc.—combining them with tonics, are chiefly to be depended upon. The debility of the system must be removed by studiously avoiding all the remote causes in our power, added to gentle exercise, supporting the integuments of the lower extremities by means of bandages properly applied, such as a well con- structed lace-stocking, or simple flannel bandage, beginning at the extremity of the foot and continu- ing it above the knee 3 by taking the Peruvian bark, infusion of quassia and other tonics, as previously prescribed. The vapour bath, friction of the legs and thighs, or wherever the seat of the com- plaint may be, will all tend, should the disease not be too far advanced, to alleviate, if not to remove, the sufferings of the patient. An infusion or decoction of the fresh tops of broom, green; beer boiled with juniper berries, &c. may be drank with the other remedies. Foxglove may also be taken in the following form 3 viz.—222 Take the Leaves of Purple Foxglove, dried.. 2 drachms; Boiled Water J pint: infuse them for two hours, and strain off the liquor; then add Spirit of Nitric jlitiier i ounce; Cpmpound Spirit of Juniper 2 ounceg: ^wo table-spoonfuls of this mixture may be taken every four hours. It not unfrequently happens that in dropsical legs there is a tendency to fester and gangrene. Whep this occurs a strong solution of the super- acitate of lead, in the proportion of two drachms to a pint of water, will be a good application by means of linen rags; or an infusion of the leaves of foxglove, as recommended by Dr. Ferriar. All dropsical patients ought to live upon light nutritious food, and powerful aromatic vegetables, as garlic, onions, mustard, cresses, horse-radish, shalots : using for common drink any of the diuretic infusions, such as fresh broom tops, crystals of tartai-,&c. Removal from a damp to a dry situation, or to a warm cHmate, is reconir mended upon unquestionable authority. DROPSY OF THE BELLY. In attending to the symptoms of this aspect of the disease it will be impossible not to distinguish itfrom dropsy. The fluctuations here may be223 easily detected by applying the left hand to one side of the abdomen, and then striking it on the other with the right. The symptoms and the treatment in this case are much the same as in dropsy of the extrepiities; the fluid must equally be evacuated by means of strong purgatives, diuretics, with the occasional use of emetics, &c., as already noticed. To pro- cure a discharge of urine, long-continued gentle friction of the abdomen, with the fingers dipped in oil, to prevent the skin from being excoriated, has been recommended. When the preceding means fail, tapping must be resorted toj although this step, by no means tends to eradicate the disease. Whenever, there- fore, it reaches this point, the treatment, if it has not before, ought to devolve on some experienced practitioner; as well as in the ma- nagement of DROPSY OF THE CHEST, which more particularly recjuires greater discrimination, com- bined with the most skilful and judicious treat- ment, &;c. WATER IN THE HEAD. This disease is almost confined exclusively to young children, and is rarely known to show itself beyond the age of twelve or fourteen years; appearing more frequently to arise in those of a224 scrofulous and ricketty habit than in those of a ■ different temperament. It very often attacks in a very gradual manner. One of the earliest symptoms in this disease is the little patient feeling uneasy in raising its head from the pillow, and wishing to lie down again immediately. It frequently commences with languor, pains in the limbs and head-ache 3 the patient is affected with sickness at the stomach, vomiting several times in the course of the day; the pain of the head is usually con- fined to one side, or extends from just above the eyebrows to the temples ; the eyes are painfully sensible to light; the patient is watchful and moans; or, if he sleeps, he grinds his teeth, picks his nose, and often awakes suddenly in a fright j the bowels are costive, and are with dif- ficulty acted upon by the strongest purgatives, &;c. StC. These symptoms go on increasing, until squinting, convulsions, and diluted pupil come on, and close the scene. Such symptoms, however, are not expected to follow each other in all cases in a regular and increased progress; for a child has sometimes appeared in health on the very night on which it has been seized with convulsions, by which it was carried off a few days afterwards. The disease, iu the acute form, commonly terminates in three225 weeks from the first symptom; but in some in- stances it has been protracted to four, five, or six weeks; and, Uke every other disease of the brain it is uncertain, as it may run its course in a few days. Water in the brain has generally been sup- posed to arise in consequence either of injuries done to the brain itself, by blows, falls, &c., or from hardened tumours or cfxcresc ences within the scull, from original laxity or weakness in the brain, or from general debility, and an impover- ished state of the blood, &c. The treatment, to give a tolerable chance of success, must be prompt and active. In the first stage the indications of cure are to lessen the inflammatory action by bleeding, if the patient be about the age of puberty and of a full habit of body, from the temporal artery or jugular vein, and the symptoms run high, at the onset; but, if younger, or the disease more advanced, asufficient quantity of blood may be withdrawn by leeches applied to the temples in the direction of the sutures, or wher ethe bones unite. The bowels should then be thoroughly emptied by means of some active carthartic, such as calomel with scammony or jalap, in proportion to the age and constitution; keeping up this function, duiing the progress of the complaint, with some degree of activity. For this purpose, calomel may be given l5226 In (JIvided dos^s, or some other mercurial prepa- . ration j e.g.— Take Gum Upsin of Scammony 4 grains; Calomel 3 grains ; Lump Sugar 5 grains : Make a powder, to be taken mixed in a little honey or treacle. After the bowels are cleared out, an evaporat- ing lotion should be assiduously applied to the scalp, previously shaved 3 e. g.— Take Muriate of Ammonia 1 ounce; Rectified Spirit 4 ounces ; Vinegar i pint: To promote perspiration and increase the se- cretion of urine, when much heat and fever pre- vail, the following draught may be given to a child four years old every three hours 5 viz.— Take Nitre 6 grains ; Tincture of Foxglove. IG to 40 drops ; Acetated Liquor of Ammonia 2 dracbras ; Distilled Water 5 drachms; Synip of Saffron 1 drachm : Blisters to the temples, or a bUster cap applied over the whole head, and a discharge kept up as long as possible, by dressing it, after removal, with cerate of savine, or ointment of Spanish flies, is a proper step. Should the progress of the complaint be for-227 tunately arrested, the strength of the patient must be re-established by means of a nutritious diet. Tonic medicines, taking care to keep the bowels open, and the head cool, are also re- commended.* SWELLINGS OF THE SOLID PARTS.—^^RICKETS.; This disease is characterised by an uncommon size of the head, swelling and enlargement of the joints, flattened ribs, incurvation of the spine, distortion of the long bones, protuberance of the belly, and general emaciation. In some families it is an hereditary disease, though parents who have been affected with it have sometimes a healthy and robust offspring. Children of the poorer and more profligate classes are those most commonly affected with it; although there are circumstances which conduce to it, such as a damp cold residence, impure air, want of at- tention to cleanliness, bad nursing, want of ex- ercise and food, weakness, &c. The proximate cause, however, is now considered to be a de- ficiency of animal gluten in the bones (phosphate of lime), hence they are deprived of that neces- sary strength and firmness which otherwise might characterise them. * See Mot^ei-'s Medical Focket j^qojk, p. 90.228 The disease seldom appears before the ninth month, and very rarely shows itself after the se- cond year of a child's age. It comes on slowly; and the first appearances of it to be observed are, flaccidity of the flesh, wasting of the body, pale- ness and loss of colour in the cheeks, if they have been of a rosy complexion, a slight swell- ing of the face, &c. &c. The child is listless, and miwilling to exert itself on the least occa- sion, and is unable to walk. The appetite is often not much impaired, but the stools are un- usually frequent and loose, and the belly appears uncommonly full and tumid. With respect to the faculties of the mind, the understanding is generally very mature, but in a few cases stupi- dity and fatuity ensue. There is fever at the commencement of the disease; but in its more advanced stage, a frequent pulse, with other symptoms of a hectic nature attend. In some cases the disease proceeds no further, and the child gradually recovers its health and strength; the limbs being left, however, in a distorted state. In others it continues to increase, till at length every function of the animal economy becomes afifected, and the scene is closed in death. The cure of rickets depends upon invigorating the system, by bracing up the solids, promoting digestion, and the formation of good chyle.229 by administering such medicines as possess a tonic power; together with immersion in cold water, increasing its effects by friction with flan- nels ; a free, open, and dry air, nutritive diet, with wine, and proper exercise; and by carrying the body in a horizontal posture, as an erect one might increase the deformity. The following powder may be taken twice a day, mixed in a little syrup; viz.— Take Mynh, and Powder of Calumba, of each 5 to 10 grains ; Sulphate of Iron 1 grain. In consequence of the difficulty of getting young children to take bark or any kind of bit- ters, the metallic tonics, such as the oxyd of zinc, subcarbonate of iron, &c., must be em- ployed. Ammoniated tincture of iron may be given, from 30 drops to 60, twice a day, in a glass of cold water :— OR, Take Subcarbonate of Iron 6 grains ; Powdered Rhubarb 4 grains; Lump Sugar 8 grains: Make a powder, to be taken morning and even- ing in a little syrup, treacle, or honey:— OR, Take Oxyd of Zinc 12 to 24 grains ; Compound Powder of Cinnamon .. 1 scruple; White Sugar 2 scruples : Mix, and divide them into twelve powders, and give one night and morning.230 Where children, with this disease, can be per- suaded to take bark, a few grains of the extract may be given mixed up in port wine. And to assist the effect of the above remedies, a gently emetic may be occasionally given, particularly in those cases where the appetite and digestion are considerably impaired. The bowels are to be kept open with some gentle laxative. In removing obstructions of the abdominal viscera in children, and to restore the health, by soliciting the return of the secretions, Sir A. Cooper, Bart,, strenuously recommends the fol- lowing mixture; viz. — Take Tincture of Peruvian Bark, and Tincture of Rhubarb, of each 1 ouneei Oxymuriate of Quicksilver 1 grain: Mix, and let a tea-spoonful be given twice or three times a day. When there is rickets with mesenteric ob- struction, the above will be found to produce a very beneficial effect j with occasional doses of from three to five grains of the compound pow- der of chalk with opium. Should the rickets have proceeded from a ve- nereal taint, tonics and mercury may be com- bined ; if from worms or difficult teething, the means advised imder those heads may be adopted.231 The great advantage, however, in the treat- ment of ricketty children will be a change of air, by removing them from town to the country, to an elevated and dry situation, supplying a nu- tritious diet, and a moderate quantity of wine. Ricketty patients should lie on hair mattresses, chaff beds, &c., these being preferable to feather beds, as they do not yield to the weight of tjhe body; hence they tend to keep the limbs and body in a natural position, Various mechanical contri- vances have been invented for the purpose of ob- viating the effects of this disease, but it is next to doing nothing to attempt using them with \'ery young children. SCROFULA OR KING's EVIL. Scrofula, so called because swine are sub- ject to it, consists in hard indolent tumours of certain parts of the body, but particularly in the neck, behind the ears, and under the chin, which, after a time, suppurate and degenerate into ulcers, from which, instead of pus, a white curdled matter, somewhat resembling the curd of milk, is discharged. It usually makes its ap^- pearance between the third and seventh year of the child's age ; but it may arise at any period between this and the age of puberty, after which it seldom makes its first attack. It commonly232 affects children of a lax habit, with smooth fine skins, fair hair, and rosy cheeks. It is also apt to attack such children as show a disposition to rickets, marked by a protuberant forehead, en- larged joints, frequently a thickening of the up- per lip, a tumid abdomen, &c.; and, like that disease, it seems to be peculiar to cold and va- riable climates, being rarely met with in warm ones. Scrofula is by no means a contagious disease, but, beyond all doubt, is of an hereditary nature, and is often entailed by parents on their chil- dren. The treatment of scrofula consists chiefly in the use of those means which are calculated to improve the general health ; e. g. a nutritious and easily digestible diet; a pure dry air; gentle exercise; the warm bath, with friction; cold bathing, especially in salt water 3 and strengthen- ing medicines, such as the preparations of iron, myrrh, &c., but particularly the Peruvian bark, with soda. Submiu'iate of mercury, iEthiop's mineral, Plummer's pill, antimonials, with decoction of sarsaparilla, guiacum, sassafras, dulcamara, and mezereon, together with the Lisbon diet drink. * See Appendix.233 Avhich consists in a combination of all these, have all been employed, but without, it appears, much seeming advantage. In recent cases of obstruction, the submuriate of mercury, joined with tartarised antimony, &c., in the following form, has been given with ad- vantage. Take Prepared Chalk, in Powder 1 drachm ; Snbmuriate of Mercury, from 3 to 6 grains ; Tartarised Antimony 2 grains : Mix, and divide into 12 papers, of which give one twice a day ; keeping the bowels open with an occasional gentle purgative of calomel and rhubarb. Muriated barytes, from three to ten or twelve drops, according to the age of the person, has been given in some cases of scrofula. It is at- tended, however, beyond a certain dose, with unpleasant effects, as sickness, tremors, and a loss of power. Hemlock has been much employed in this dis- ease, both in the swelling and ulcerated stage, and has been found serviceable, on many occa- sions, in dispersing swelling of a scrofulous na- ture, given internally, as well as employed exter- nally, in some cases, in the form of poultice and fomentation, or both j viz.«—234 Take Extract of Peruvian Bark .. <~i i.. •.» 2 drachms; Extract of Hemlock 1 drachm: Mix, and make 40 pills, two or three of which may be taken twice or three times a day. For a hemlock poultice in scrofulous ulcera- tion, take the leaves of hemlock, two handfuls, and boil them in a pint of water, strain and thicken, to a proper consistence, with linseed- meal or oatmeal. The fomentation may be made in the samxC manner, with the exception of the thickening ingredients. The hemlock must be discontinued as soon as jt begins to produce symptoms of giddiness or sickness at the stomach, and resumed when these subside ; and in this manner continued for some weeks. A strong decoction of the dried leaves of colts- foot, when the juice cannot be procured in a fresh state, has been given with some effect. Another remedv, which has been much em- ployed in scrofula, and not unfrequently with advantage, is burnt sponge, in the form of a bolus or draught; e. g.— Take Burnt Spouge, from 20 to 30 grains ; Rhubarb in powder 3 grains; Honey, enough to make a bolus : To be taken twice a day235 OR, Take Burnt Sponge 1 scruple; Aromatic Confection lO grains; Mint Water if ounce : To be taken twice a day. A more active medicine, and employed instead of this, although it is the basis of it, is the car- bonate of soda, from ten to twenty grains to a drachm, twice or three times a daye. g.— Take Carbonate of Soda 6 drachms; Powder of Peruvian Bark 3 ounces ; Mucilage of Gum Arabic, enough to form an elec- tuaiy— of which the size of a nutmeg may be taken thrice a day :— OR, Take Carbonate of Soda ^ ounce ; Infusion of Peruvian Bark 10 ounces; Compound Tincture of Cinnamon .... 1 ounce ; Syrup of Orange Peel J ounce: Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonfuls are to be taken three or four times a day. The Sulphuric and nitric acids are much valued for their virtue in the cure of this disease; and scrofulous ulcers, which had resisted many other remedies, have healed under a weak solution of nitric acid and water; and in those sores which are spreading and irritable, a watery solution of opium and hemlock, and afterwards of a solution of zinc, will be found serviceable.23G Blisters, applied to swellings of the glands have brought them to a quicker state of suppuration than they would otherwise have done. The sti- mulus of a blister, where the swelling of a gland has become indolent and stationary, rouses it to a state of renewed action, which probably may dispose it to suppurate. In some instances, both blistering and electricity have, however, been attended with a directly contrary effect, and have occasioned them to disperse, a step which should invariably be attempted on the first appearance of any tumour, or enlargement of any joint, by swelling of the parts surrounding it. The means usually employed for this purpose, are local bleeding, sea-water, poultices, hemlock, mercu- rial ointment, electricity, blisters, &c.; sea-bath- ing, where it can be adopted, will prove the best of all remedies, &;c. When the process of suppuration is sufficiently advanced, the contents of the abscess are to be discharged at once with the lancet, if the collec- tion be not large; if otherwise, by repeated puncturation at proper intervals, closing the orifice to prevent the access of external air, in the same manner as practised by skilful surgeons, in the treatment of an abscess of the loins, into whose hands the disease, at this stage, equally as in the first, should more particularly be entrusted.237 DISEASED MESENTERIC GLANDS. The mesenteric glands, through which the > chyle passes into the thoracic duct to be con- iveyed into the circulation for the purpose of nu- ttrition, are situated here and there in the cel- ilular membrane of the mesentery, which is a 1 membrane in the cavity of the abdomen attached tto the spine, to which the intestines adhere, and which are often diseased in scrofulous children. The i little patient usually complains of a deep-shoot- iing pain in the belly, which gradually enlarges ;and hardens, while the other parts of the body i are emaciated. The countenance becomes al- • tered ; the eyes seem glaring and sunk into their « sockets; the nose is sharpened; the cheeks are t of a marble whiteness, unless when flushed with ' hectic fever, and the whole body is of the same ~ squalid complexion. The lips are sometimes ^ swelled and of a deep red colour, and at other t times the angles of the mouth are studded with • small ulcers. The state of the bowels is variable, though more commonly relaxed than otherwise; and when this is the case, the stools consist chiefly of frothy mucus, tinged with bile, which, in passing off, excoriates the verge of the fun- dament, &c. In children; whose mesenteric glands are thick-238 ened and diseased, the appetite is tolerably good, and, what is more, it is frequently voracious. Still neither health nor strength result from it; and the more food is taken the worse the child generally is, as it oppresses without nou- rishing the system; and until the obstruction in these glands is removed, to allow the nu- tritious part of the food being carried into the system, no healthy appearance can take place, arid the patient sinks rapidly into an untimely grave. This disorder attacks children from the age of a few months to ten or twelve years, and the earlier it makes its appearance the greater the danger. In the management of the disease, a gentle mercurial purge, proportioned to the age of the child, may be given twice a week; e. g.— Calomel, from 2 to 4 grains ; Rhubarb 4 to 10 grains: administering, two or three times a day, some mild tonic. Warm bathing, using friction night arid morning, with the hand, over the whole belly, will greatly assist the other means of cure, (for which see Atrophy, p. 196,) by exciting the body to healthy action; light nutritive diet; and, if the patients exceed the age of two or three years, a small quantity of animal food may be allowed ; giving animal broths, jellies, &c.,239 until they are weaned; exercise in the open air and that of the sea-side, are strongly recom- mended, &c. &c. SYPHILIS, OR VENEREAL DISEASE. GONORRHCEA. By a gonorrhoea, or clap, is to be understood a discharge of matter from the glands of the urethra, in consequence of the application of syphilitic matter to them. No certain rule can be laid down relative to the time this form of the disease will take before it makes its appear- ance. With some people it will show itself in the course of three or four days; while Avith others there will not be the least appearance of it before the expiration of some weeks. It ge- nerally, however, makes its appearance between the sixth and fourteenth day, and in the male begins with an uneasiness about the parts of generation, such as an itching of the glans penis, and a soreness and tingling sensation along the whole course of the urethra; soon after which, the person perceives an appearance of whitish matter at its orifice, and also some degree of pungency on making water. In the course of a few days the discharge will considerably increase, will assume most probably a greenish or yellowish240 hue, and will become thinner, and lose its adhe- siveness ; there will also be some degree of red- ness and inflammation about the parts; in con- sequence of which, the glans penis will be smaller than usual, and there will be a considerable degree of pain and scalding heat on making water. As the disorder proceeds, the neighbour- ing parts sympathise, the bladder becomes irritable, there is frequent desire to make water, the glands of the groin harden and become en- larged j perhaps one of the testicles becomes swelled and inflamed, which causes excruciating pains, extending from the seat of the complaint up into the small of the back, the patient gets hot and restless, and a small symptomatic fever arises. In the treatment of gonorrhoea, if the patient is of regular habits, and does not prolong the dis- ease for the want of proper and timely assistance, in a fortnight or three weeks the discharge will become gradually diminished, and will at length cease altogether. But if he be too fond of the bottle, lead a life of intemperance and sensuality, live on high-seasoned meats, and neglect the necessary means of cure, it may continue for months, and on going off may leave a weakness or gleet behind it, besides the risk of giving rise, at some future period, to some constitutional241 affection, especially if there has been a neglect of proper cleanliness ; for if the venereal matter be left to lodge between the prepuce and glands for any time, so as to occasion excoriation and ulceration, there will always be danger of its be- hig absorbed. There is another risk also from the long continuance of gonorrhoea, especially if it has been attended with inflammatory symptoms, or if it has been of frequent recurrence in the same individual, namely, the taking place of one or more strictures in the urethra. When gonorrhoea has been of long standing, v.arty excrescences are liliewise apt to arise about the parts of generation, owing to the mat- t ter falling and lodguig thereon. The same heat and soreness in making water, ^ with the same discharge of coloured matter, to- . gether with a slight pain in walking, and uneasi- 1 ness in sitting take place in the female as in the 1 male; but as the parts in women most apt to be ; affected by the venereal poison are less complex i in their nature, and fewer in number than in I men, so of course the former are not liable to 1 many of the symptoms of the latter; neither are 1 they so frequently incommoded by strictures. With women it frequently happens that all the »symptoms of gonorrhoea are very mild, that they M242 experience no other inconvenience than the dis- charge, unless after the period of menstruation, when it is in some degree aggravated. In the treatment and consequent cure of gon- orrhoea we are to be directed by the symptoms present, &c. At the commencement of the dis- ease, should the patient complain of much pain, heat, and difficulty of making water, with other inflammatory symptoms, and is, at the same time, of a full plethoric habit, he may lose blood, keeping the body open with gentle purgatives; e.g. Take Lenitive Electuary 1$ ounce; Cream of Tartar , 2 drachms ; Jalap, in Powder 1 drachm; Syrup or Treacle, enough to make the whole into an electuary; of which the size of a nutmeg may be taken night and morning, as occasion may require :— OR, Take Epsom l^alts ... i 2 ounces ; Warm Water 8 ounces; Compound Tincture of Senna 1 ounce : four table-spoonfuls for a dose, occasionally 5 using, at the same time, any of the following sedative injections: Take Mucilage of Gum Arabic 3 ounces ; Olive Oil 1 ounce : Mix, and inject carefully, compressing the penis, to prevent the injection from going farther dowx243 the urethra than necessary; and in withdrawing the injection, only pulUng the handle of the syringe half its length out of the body: or, in- ject thin gruel or barley water, during the height of" the inflammation. As the inflammation subsides the injections may be of the cooling astringent kind; e. g.-— Take Oil of Almonds 4 ounces; Solution of the Acetate of Lead 20 drops : OR, Solution of the Acetate of Lead 20 drops ; Rose Water , , 8 ounces. The patient should drink plentifully of mucil- aginous diluent drinks, such as barley water, linseed-tea, or gum arabic dissolved in milk, using spare diet, abstaining from all fermented liquors, and avoiding exercise. Cubebs (Java pepper) has been spoken of as a remedy for gonorrhoea 5 and on the first ap- pearance of the disease, a trial may be given to it, in the quantity of two or three drachms, three times a day. The following powders, from their determina- tion to the kidnies rather than the bowels, will afford relief by lessening the irritability of the urethra; and, by diminishing the stimulating pro- perties of the urine, do much good. Gonor- rhoeas, in fact, that had continued for a length m2244 of time, giving great distress and uneasiness to the patient, have been completely cured by them in a few days. Take Sulphate of Soda (Glauber's Salts) 1 ounce; Nitrate of Potass (Nitre) 2 drachms : Mix, and divide them into nine powders, one of which may be taken three or four times a day, in common gruel, barley water, or linseed tea; or the whole may be put into a quart of barley water at once, and a tea-cupful taken three or four times a day. Balsam of capaiva, 30 drops or more, three times a day, dropped on some coarse brown sugar, drinking plentifully of some mild diluents, and keeping the body open with the preceding electuary, to which a drachm of nitre may be added, will diminish the discharge, and tend to accustom the urethra to the use of stronger astrin- gent injections, which will put an end to it entirely. After the inflammation has subsided, any of the following astringent injections may be used, as before advised, three, four, or five times a day; and always after making water: Take Sulphate of Zinc, from 1 to 2 scruples; Rose Water 8 ounces : OR, Alura 1 drachm ; Rose, Water m C ounces. 4I 24o The irritation at the orifice of the urethra fre- quently becomes so great, that the point of the syringe cannot be suffered to enter. In this case no injection should be used, until the in- flammation of the gland and foreskin has abated; but in the mean while, fomentations and poul- tices of bread and milk should be constantly applied, using, at the same time, the saline powders, or the electuary previously recom- mended. Swelled Testicles.—Should the testicles swell, leeches must be applied—fomentations and poul- tices used. This frequently occurs when injec- tions of the irritating or very astringent kind are used before the primary inflammation was suffi- ciently subdued to authorise their use; or in consequence of strong purges, walking, excesses, ficc. The testicle should be suspended in a bag- truss, and the patient confined to the horizontal posture, that is, as when in bed. Chordee.—Should a chordee supervene, blood must be taken from the penis by means of leeches. The steam of hot water, poultices, and fomentations, have also an excellent effect in sub- duing the pain and tension; and the following bolus may be given at bed-time; viz.—246 Take Compound Powder of Ipecacuanha .... 25 grains ; Powder of Antimony and Camphor, of each, 4 grains. A little of the following ointment, made by blend- ing a drachm of camphor with an ounce of com- mon strong ointment of quicksilver, may be rub- bed along the course of the urethra. Gonorrhoea does not require mercury for its cure; at the same time, in consequence of inflammation in gonorrhoea, the foreskin becomes often so swelled at the end, that it cannot be drawn back, which symptom is called ^^phymosisj" or, being drawn back behind the glands, it cannot be re- turned, which is called paraphjinosis." In such cases it will be necessary to immerse the penis frequently in warm water, use emollient fomen- tations, poultices composed of linseed meal, mixed up in some Goulard's lotion, diluted with water, and laid on cold; the patient, at the same time, keeping in the recumbent position, or, if obliged to walk about, the penis should be sup- ported up to the belly, by means of a proper bandage. When, in these cases, there is con- siderable inflammation, it will be advisable before adopting the preceding treatment, to bleed freely from the arm, take cooling pur- gatives every other day, and use a spare diet. The parts should be kept clean by injections of warm milk and water under the foreskin, when247 the case is phymosis, and when this is accom- panied with chancres, the injection may consist of one grain of the oxymuriate of mercury to two ounces of water. GLEET. A gleet, for the most part, is the conse- quence of frequently-repeated, or improperly treated claps. It may also proceed from relax- ation, or from the remains of the disease. It has its seat the same as gonorrhoea: the discharge is, at first, similar to the white of an egg, but afterwards, in consequence of irregularity, it be- comes yellow and opaque. Gleet is often also a consequence of stricture j and till the latter be removed, the former does not admit of a cure. The cure of gleet consists principally in bring- ing about a change in the action of the parts. The best general treatment is the exhibition of the balsam of capaiva and the spirit of nitrous aether, or the yellow Peruvian bark and the bal- sam of capaiva made into an electuary. Peru- vian bark, salt of steel, cold and sea bathing, &c., for improving the health and strengthening the constitution. Any of the following may also be employed with advantage : Take common Turpentine 2 drachms ; Yellow Bark, in Powder 6 drachms j Honey 1 ounce:248 Make an electuary, and take the size of a small nutmeg two or three times a day:— OR, Take common Turpentine 2 drachms; Rluibarb in powder i drachm ; Aromatic Powder i drachm: Make 60 pills, and take two or three twice or three times a day:— OR, Take Balsam of Capaiva , 1 drachm. Beat up with the Yolk of an Egg; Water i pint; Clarified Honey 1 drachm; Tincture of Sj)anish Flies 1 drachm : IN'Iake a mixture, and take two tea-spoonfuls three times a day. The muriate of mercury, in the proportion of two grains to a pint of water, may be used as an injection, which may be gradually increased in strength :— OR, Take Oxyrauriate of Mercury 2 grains. Dissolve in Rectified Spirit 2 drachms; and add— Distilled Water 8 ounces ; Muriate of Ammonia 6 grains : Mix them for an injection. Some cases of gleet will only yield to mercury. Should it not be accomplished by injection, or249 the use of internal remedies, the patient. should desist from the former, and have a bougie intro- duced, dipped previously in equal parts of sweet oil and balsam of capaiva, &c. CHANCRE AND BUBO. The Treatment of Chancre.—It has been re- commended, on the first appearance of chancre, to touch it with caustic j but this method has since been objected to for the following reason, viz.—it often induces a disease of the glands of the groin, from its irritating nature, where no previous disposition existed ; and, by the speedy healing up of the sore, we are at a loss to know what effect mercury has produced on the disease through the medium of the constitution. It has frequently happened, that when the chancre has been healed in a very short time by means of caustic, the use of mercury has not been per- sisted in, under the idea that the disease has been eradicated; but in a short time, secondary symptoms have made their appearance extremely difficult to remove. If the patient, therefore, be anxious to have the local disease early removed, caustic may be applied, but mercury must be given equally as long as if nothing of the kind had been resorted to. The shortest space of M 5250 time that mercury should be used, to be depended upon, is three weeks; and its effects should be visibly manifested in the constitution, during that time, by a discharge of saliva from the mouth. The sore will frequently have healed before this period has elapsed; still a gentle salivation must nevertheless be kept up for the above-mentioned time, or longer, according to the urgency of the case. In short, for a week, at least, after the sore has healed, the mercury ought not to be discontinued. Mercury may be introduced into the system gradually under the following forms: Take Submuiiate of Mercury, and Camphor, of each 2 scritple* ; Opium 10 grains ; Honey, enough to form 20 pills : one or two of which may be taken night and morning:— OR, Take Submuriate of Mercury , 2 drachms; Tartarised Antimony 5 grains ;. Opium 10 grains ; Honey, enough to make 20 pills: two to be taken twice a day, as above. The best form to give mercury is the blue pilltwo five-grain pills at night, and one in the morning ; three-fourths of a grain of opium may be added to each pill, to prevent it from running251 off by stool. One of the best applications to chancres is the black wash, if the patient be not of a very irritable habit, made as follows : Take Calomel 2 dracbins ; Lime Water 1 pint; Tincture of Opium § drachm. Calomel, sprinkled on the sore, or mixed up into a soft paste, with mucilage of gum arabic, is also a very excellent application. For another lotion, which is the best form of local application to chancres, the yellow wash, made as follows 5 e. g.— Take Oxymuriate of Quicksilver 1 scruple; Lime Water 1 pint. This is the treatment recommended where the in- flammatory symptoms do not mn high 3 but where the contrary is the case, the use of mercury must be suspended, and recourse had, in the mean time, to another mode of treatment. For ex- ample, the following cooling sedative wash may be used j e. g.— Take Solution of the Acetate of Lead ^ drachm; Tincture of Opium 3 drachms ; Water 4 ounces : Pieces of linen wetted in this, or the black wash above mentioned, may be kept constantly ap- plied to the part. A brisk purge, consisting of ten grains of ca-252 lomeJ and a scmple of rhubarb should be given ; although this must not be repeated frequently, as it would debilitate the patient and increase the tendency to slough, that is, to throw off corrupt parts. The black wash may be in- jected under the foreskin to clear away the dis- charge, which is apt to collect there, and cause irritation, &:c. Treatment of Buboes.—The treatment of bu- boes consists in rubbing in, every night, one or two drachms of mercurial ointment on the inside of the thigh, or below the swelling. When this is employed in its early stage, little more is re- quired. Previous to the use of mercury, an ac- tive purge is required. Should the bubo not disperse, and the skin begin to look red, the mer- cury must be discontinued, and leeches applied, washing the part afterwards with Goulard water. These means being persisted in for three or four days, the inflammation, in all probability, will be reduced, when the use of mercur)' may be re- sumed. But should these efforts prove unavail- ing, and matter have actually formed in the bubo, which may be known by a circumscribed redness round the tumour, with a sensible fluctuation in it, rubbing in mercury must be discontinued, and the part now treated with warm fomentations and pouUices to hasten its contents outwardly; an^253 when it is ripe, by puncturing it to the extent of lialf an inch, with the point of a lancet, or by using ' caustic. The wound should be dressed with red precipitate ointment, with a poultice applied over it; and, continuing in this manner, should the ulcer prove sluggish, that is, not disposing to heal, the edges of it may be touched with the lunar caustic once in twenty-fourhgiirs, and kept continuallv moist with the black wash, &c. For the treatment of the secondary symptoms of this disease, that is, when it shows itself in the form of ulcers and inflammation of the throat, mouth, and nose; eruptions, or blotches, on the surface of the body; ulcers in different parts; swelling, &c. of the bones, tendons, &c.; ex- crescences about the anus, loss of hair, heavy sight, &c.; an alterative course of mercury, well di- rected and persevered in, with the decoction of the woods, will, in most cases, under strict per- severance, remove them, and restore the constitu- tion. scunvY. The scurvy is a disease of a putrid nature, chiefly affecting sailors, and such as are shut up in besieged places, frorp their being, as it is sup- posed, deprived of fresh provisions, &c. &c. Jt. 254 Isi" characterised by bleeding of the gums, spots of different colours, for the most part livid, par- ticularly at the roots of the hairs, occurring chiefly in cold countries, after living on putrescent salted animal food, with a deficiency of recent vege- table matter, &c. &c. The scurvy comes on gradually with heaviness, weariness, and unwillingness to move about, toge- ther with great dejection of spirits, anxiety, and op- pression about the region of the stomach, consider-' able loss of strength, and debility. As the disease advances, the countenance becomes sallow and bloated ; respiration is hurried by the least mo- tion J the teeth become loose; the gums are spongy, swelled, and bleed upon the slightest touch 3 the breath is very offensive; livid spots appear on different parts of the body; old, wounds, that have been long healed, break out afresh ; old fractures disunite ; wandering pains are felt, particularly by nightthe skin is dry; the urine small in quantity, turning green vege- table infusion to a blue colour, &c. &c. The last stage of scurvy exhibits a most wretched and truly pitiable condition. The joints become swelled and stiff j the tendom of the legs are rigid and contracted; general emaciation ensues; blood discharges frorn the nose, ears, anus, and255 other parts of the body; fetid evacuations are voided by stool 5 diarrhoea and dysentery arise, which soon close the wretched scene. As a means of counteracting the remote causes of the disease, which is the elfect of salt provision, and the want of fresh meat and vegetables, every ship bound on a long voyage should be well stored with flour, eggs, rice, pearl barley, oatmeal, groats, peas, sago, vermicelli, portable soup, po- tatoes, and other vegetables in season, sour krout, (cabbage fermented with vinegar), raisins, cur- rants, prunes, and other dried and fresh fruits ; various spices ; -many kinds of medicinal herbs, as balm, mint, pennyroyal, sage, &c., with tea, coffee, sugar, cocoa, treacle, honey, Seville oranges made into marmalade, essence of spruce, and fresh wort. The ship should also be well supplied with spirituous and fermented liquors, as rum, brandy, beer and porter, together with wine, cider, vinegar, and other acids, particularly the con- crete juice of limes, lemons, and oranges, also with these fruits in their natural state, live stock, &c.^ When, from a want of any of these precau- * Captain Cook's voyages, as well as that of the unfor- tunate La Peronse, prove beyond a doubt that, by due care and proper regimen, seamen may be preserved from the scurvy and other diseases, which formerly have been in- separable from long sea voyages} and that they can endure256 tions, the disease manifests itself among a num- ber of men^ let it be when it may, either on ship- board or in garrison, the effects are to be counter- acted, first by obviating the putrid state of the system, by a diet consisting of fresh animal and vegetable food, but more particularly the latter; to which may be added the free use of ripe fruits. For ordinary beverage, the patient may drink milk, Avhey, or butter-milk, &c., or else an infu- sion of milk in spruce. One of the most effec- tual antiscorbutics, and which may be substituted, in cases of emergency, for those where they cannot be procured, is lemon juice, with which most ships, going long voyages, are supplied, &c. Symptoms may also arise in the course of the disease requiring a separate treatment; such as pains in the belly, which are to be allayed by opiates, &:c., sponginess of the gums and loose- ness of the teeth, by washing the mouth with gargles of an astringent and an antiseptic nature; foul ulcers to be cleansed and healed by washing them with lemon juice, &c. &c. and support the fatigues of the longest navigations in all climates, in all latitudes, in tlie roidst of fogs, and under a ]t)urning sun. Antiseptic Gargle. Take Decoction of Bark Tincture of Myrrh Muriatic Acid .... 12 ounces; 3 ounces; 30 drops:257 Astringent Gargle. Take Infusion of Roses 8 ounces; Aluin 2 drachms ; Honey enough to make it palatable. The bowels, in the course of the disease, should be relaxed, if costiveness prevail, by drinking a decoction of tamarinds, to which a little cream of tartar has been added. The skin may be kept moist by giving a few grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha, &c. &;c. In order to restore the system, the patient should live upon fresh vegetable and animal food j take the bark, with sulphuric acid, as ad- vised in Indigestion; live in a free, open, and airy place; take exercise, and otherwise lead a life of temperance and regularity, JAUNDICE. The jaundice sets in with lassitude, inactivity, loathing of food, and costiveness: as it proceeds, the skin and outer membrane of the eyes become of a deeply-tinged yellow colour; there is a bitter taste in the mouth, with frequent nausea and vomiting; the urine is very high coloured, and tinges linen yellow; the stools are of a grey or clayey appearance; and a dull obtuse pain is felt in the right side, which is increased by pressure. When the disease has continued long, and258 proceeded from some chronic affection of the liver, or other neighbouring parts, it is often at- tended with dropsical swellings of the feet and legs, and sometimes of the belly. Spots some- times appear on different parts of the body; the skin, yellow before, now turns brown or livid; passive discharges of blood and ulcerations have broken outj and, in some instances, the disease has assumed the form of scurvy. In recent cases of jaundice, in consequence of concretions obstructing the passage of the bile through its proper channel, a cure, in all proba- bility, may be effected, by attention to the pro- per means; but where it is brought on by tumours in the circumjacent parts, or has arisen in con- sequence of other diseases, &c., the chance is doubtful. If it arise during a state of pregnancy, it will disappear on parturition, therefore is of little consequence, requiring only patience for the cure. Still, however unpromising the hope of cure may at times appear, it is nevertheless to be attempted, by restoring the flow of the bile through its proper channels ; caftying it off by the intestines J and, in short, by relieving the particular symptoms as they occur. Purgative medicines have been much used in this disease, with the view not only of removing costiveness, but of exciting the action of the bi-259 llary ducts by increasing that of the Intestines. A soluble state of the bowels, where the disease arises, either as a consequence of stones in the biliary ducts, or of spasmodic structure, is un- doubtedly necessary to a person labouring under this disease. With this intention, Take Rhubarb in powder 1 scruple ; Hard Soap i drachra ; Submuriate of Mercury 12 grains: Make a mass, divide it into 24 pills, of which take two or three at bed-time :— Take A.loelic Pills, with Myrrh 15 grains; Calomel 24 grains ; Syrup of Ginger, enough to make the mass into four pills, to be taken for a dose. Gentle exercise on horseback, with proper frictions, have been recommended, with the view of dislodging biliary concretions ; also electrical shocks passed through the liver in the direction of the common bile duct, are good auxiliaries in these cases. The warm bath and opiates, by their relaxing and antispasmodic power, are highly useful in jaundice. When it is found that jaundice has arisen in consequence of an inflammatory affection of the liver, it must be carried off at an early period.260 by vencsoction, applying leeches, or cupping on the seat of the liver, giving cooling saline me- dicine, and applying a blister over the part; re- ncAving the latter as soon as the place has skinned over, if the disease do not yield. Mercury inter- nally and externally, as advised under chronic in- flammation of the liver' (see p. 52). Soap has been considered as a specific in jaundice, either arising from the above cause, or from biliary concretions, as well as neutral salts, and has been employed in considerable quantities. Hemlock has also been used; although without any very apparent good effect: Take Subcarbonate of Soda 2dradn)i8; Powder of Peruvian Bark 1 ounce; Powder of Rhubarb i drachm ; Mucilageof Gum Arabic, enough tomake an electuary; of which a tea-spoonful maybe taken three times a day. Soap may be given in the following form, viz. Take Giim Ammonia, and Hard Soap, of each 1 drachm ; Oil of Juniper 8 drops ; Syrup of Gingery enough to make the mass into a proper consis- tency for 24 pills ; four or five of which are to be taken twice a day. Costiveness may be removed with CastQr Oil 1 onnce :2GI OR, Jalap 1 sci nplc ; Cream of Tartar - . 2 scruples: OR, Take Socotrine Aloes 1 drachm; Hard Soap 1 drachui ; Siibcarbonate of Potass i drachm ; Syrup of Buckthorn, enough to make the mass into 36 pills; tthree or four of which are to be taken at bed- ttime. Jaundice, arising from simple obstruction of tithe gall-ducts, is often removed by the internal sand external use of the Bath waters. The Chel- tenham water is another remedy found to be of fessential service in obstructions of the liver, &c. [This water contains salts of a purgative nature, lat the same time that it possesses a tonic power. The diet of a person labouring under jaundice, ill! whom biliary concretions are apt to form, ikhould be chiefly of a vegetable nature ; exercise, rVesh air, &c.; observing strict regularity in his mode of living, &c. DEAFNESS. Deafness may be occasioned ])y colds of the mead, or any thing that may prove injurious to Whe internal structure of the ear j such, for ex- ■iwnple, as loud noises from the firing of cannon,262 hard substances interrupting the ingress of sounds; debiHty, palsy of the auditory nerves. In some instances it is a consequence of preced- ing diseases, such as fever, syphiUs, &c.; and in others it depends upon some original defect in the structure of conformation or the ear. In the last instance, the person is usually not only deaf, but dumb.—(See Inflammation of the Ear, p. 24.) IMPOTENCY. This disease may be a consequence of some original defect, when it will be impossible to effect a cure; but when it arises from debility or general relaxation, the system may be re- invigorated by a generous nutritive diet, cold bathings general and topical; by the use of tonics, such as bark, myrrh, chalybeates, as ad- vised under the head of Indigestion. Stimulants, such as the tincture of Spanish flies may also be of service, given in small doses ; e. g,— Take Powder of Spanish Fly 18 grains ; Opium, and Camphor, of each 36 grains ; Conserve of Hips, enough to make a mass, which is directed to be divided into 36 pills; one or two of which may be taken every night going to bed.263 In many cases this disease is merely imagin- ary J and if the patient could but find confidence in himself, he would soon get rid of his com- plaint. IMMODERATE PERSPIRATION. This may arise from general weakness, inde- pendent of its being symptomatic of other dis- eases. The cure may be effected by covering the body lightly, and keeping the chamber moderately cool, using gentle laxatives, tonics and cold bathing, as advised in nidigestion; rising early, using solid food, and refraining from the use of warm fluids. In the colliquative sweating at- tendant on hectic and pulmonary consumption, sulphuric acid, diluted to suit the patient's taste is much used. INCONTINENCY OF URINE.* This usually proceeds from relaxation, or a paralytic affection of the bladder, brought on by * Mr. Charles Bell, in his Treatise on the diseases of the urethra, vessica urinaria, says, that the reason children pass their urine in bed is owing to their sleeping on their back, as it never takes place unless the boy be in this posi- tion. The cure, therefore, he asserts, is simply turning the child on his side. By accustoming himself to sleep on his side, or on liU face, the ill habit will be broken off; nor2G4 various causes, such as an immoderate use of spirituous liquors, masturbution, excess in venery; or it may arise from a diseased state of the bladder itself, or from some irritating substance contained within it. When the disease prevails in consequence of re- laxation of the parts, the cure should be attempt- ed by cold bathing, locally and generally, more particularly the former, tonics, solid nutritious diet, air, exercise; from a scruple to half a drachm of the powder bean, (wortleberry,) twice or thrice a day, taking about have a pint of lime water, after each dose is said to be of service in strengthening the tone of the parts. When it arises from other causes the treatment should cor- respond with them. Those who are troubled with this complaint should wear some vessel, or a bladder, to receive the urine as it drops, to prevent it from galling or excoriating the parts. W^omen may use a sponge arranged in such a manner as to absorb the moisture. SEMINAL WEAKNESS INVOLUNTARY EMISSIONS OF SEMEN. This disease proceeds from debility, or is in- will he dream of making water while he keeps in this posi- tion. This certainly merits the attention of parents in general, and the superintendents of seminaries, &c.2G5 duced either by excessive venery or Onanism ; it is often difficult to remove, and, in many cases, jjroves incurable. The cure will depend much on the patient abstaining from the remote causes, v^rhich depend upon his will; by using a generous and hutritive diet, cold bathing, local and general, tonics as advised in Dyspepsy, &c.; by balsams; e. g.— Take Balsam of Capaiva 2 drachms ; Tlie Yolk of an Egg to mix it up tliat it may blend with pure Water, added gradually .. 5^ounces; Tincture of Bark 1 ounce ; Syrup ofMarshmallows jounce: Mix, and take two table-spoonfuls three or four times a day. By chalybeates, viz.— Take Gum Myrrh, and Extract of Peruvian Bark, of each 1 drachm ; Snlphate of IroH 1 scruple; Balsam of Capaiva, enough to make the mass; divide in 40 pills, and take 3 four times a day. To prevent nocturnal emissions and involun- tary discharges of semen, and for obviating local debility, the spa waters have often proved highly serviceable. FLUOR ALBUS, OR WHITES. This disease is characterised by the discharge of a thin white or yellow matter from the N266 uterus or vagina, accompanied with some degree of fcetor, smarting in making water, pain in the hack, &c. In order to distinguish this complaint from gonorrhoea, it will be necessary to attend to the symptoms in each. In gonorrhoea the running is constant, but in small quantity; there Is great heat of the urine, itching about the parts, enlargement of the glands of the groin, &;c.; whereas in the fluor albus, the discharge is irre- gular, and comes away in lumps, and in consider- able quantities, and is neither preceded by nor accompanied with any inflammation. It may proceed from a variety of causes: weakness and laxity of the solids, excessive coition, injury done to the parts in difficult and tedious labour, frequent miscarriages, immode- rate flowing of the menses, profuse evacuations, poor diet, &c. &c. The cure of this disease consists in increasing the action and tone of the womb, and correcting the acrimony of the discharge, by administering astringents by the mouth, and by injections per •• vaginam ; e. g.— Take Peruvian Bark 1 onnce ; Catechu, Powdered 2 drachms; Alum Jounce; Mashings of Nutmeg 1 drachm ; Syrup of Ginger, enough to make an electuary:267 the size of a nutmeg, to be taken three times a day :— OR, Take Alum, in Powder 10 grains^ Catechu 5 grains ; Sulpliate of Zinc 1 grain ; Confec tion of Roses, enough ; with which make a bolus to be taken three times a day. For injections—. Take Decoction of Oak Bark 1 pint; Alum 1 drachm : OR, Oak Gall, bruised , ^ ounce ; Hot Water 2 pints ; OR, A strong Infusion of Green Tea. Stimulating medicines which act upon the urinary organs may also be used in this disease, such as balsam of capaiva, from 25 to 60 drops, thre^ times a day. The tincture of Spanish fly has likewise been much gi\T2n in this disease* and according to the account of a late writer,* with the most decided effect; beginning with thirty drops, three times a day, and gradually increasing it to sixty, until some effect be produced : OR, Take Compound Infusion of Gentian 8 ounces; Tincture of Peruvian Bark 2 ounces ; Tincture of Spanish Fly '. .. 2 drachms: * Practical Essay on the more important complaints peculiar to the female; by John Roberton, &c. N 2268 make a mixture, and take two table-spoonfuls three times a day. The acrimony of the discharge may be cor- rected by a proper attention to cleanliness, wash- ing the parts frequently with cold water, or a little milk and water, and afterwards using any of the preceding astringent injections. The languor, debility and fainting, consequcit on this disease, may be obviated by a generous diet, consisting of milk, with isinglass boiled in it, jellies, eggs, gelatinous broths, cordial medicines, port wine, &c. &c., the system strengthened, and the general health improved, by the tonics advised in Dyspepsea. Early rising, and lying on a mattress in preference to a feather bed, are recommended; avoiding, at the same time all remote causes, such as too free indul- gence in sensual gratifications, tea, and other warm slops, &c. &c. COSTIVENESS. Costiveness implies a retention of the excre- ments, accompanied with unusual hardness and dryness, so as to render the evacuations difficult and sometimes painful; and is either constitu- tional, or symptomatic of other diseases, under which latter form it more generally prevails. People who lead sedentary lives, especially those of a sanguineous and choleric temperament,269 are peculiarly liable to this disease, as well as those who are subject to hypochondriac affec- tions, the gout, acute fevers, a diseased state of the liver and spleen, &c. It is also frequently occasioned by neglecting the usual time of going to stool, and checking the natural tendency to those salutary excretions, &c. The most proper laxatives for removing cos- tiveness, are those :vhich afford the least irrita- tion, but which, at the same time, procure at least one or two motions daily; such as- Castor Oil -. § ounce : OR, Take Lenitive Electuary 2 ounces; Cream of Tartar 2*drachms; Jalap, in powder 1 drachm ; Syrup of Giugcr, enongh to make an electuary; . of which the size of a moderate vralnut may be taken occasionally, at bed-time. A natural discharge of the contents of the bowels should be solicited by those of a costive habit, in preference to the habitual use of any kind of })urgatives whatever. For the treatment of obstinate cases of costiveness see Dry Belly-ache, &c. p. 182. SUPPRESSION AND DIFFICULTY OF URINE. Difficulty of passing the urine is seldom at- tended with much danger, unless through neglect it should terminate in total suppression ; which270 must always be regarded as a dangerous complaint ■when it continues for anyJength of time, from the great distension of the bladder, and often conse- quent inflammation winch ensue. When the difficulty*Df passing the urine has arisen in consequence of a blister, which is some- times the case, the patient should drink plenti- fully of linseed tea, decoction of mallows, or barley water. When it proceeds from any other cause, besides the means just mentioned, flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, should be kept constantly applied over the seat of the bladdfer; and emollient clysters should be fre- quently i!ijected, to which a drachm of the tinc- ture of opium may be added; as in every instance o^this complaint, whether arising from stricture, gravel, inflammation, or spasm, opiates will prove highly serviceable, either by the moiith or in form of clyster. For an injection : Take thin Decoction of Bark 4 ounces ; Olive Oil i ounce ; AYine, or Tincture of Opium 1 drachm. For a draught: Take Mucilage of Gum Arabic 1 ounce; Olive Oil 2 drachms: Mix them in a mortar, ^id add271 Spirit of Nitric ^ther 1 drachm ; Tincture of Opium 25 drops ; Fennel Water 5 ounce. A suppression of urine has been' removed by throwing cold water* over the patient's thighs, and by applying ice to the bottom of the abdo- men when other remedies have failed. The muriated tincture of irGji, ten drops every jten minutes, until some sensible effect is obtained, often proves efficacious in suppressions of urine; and in all irritations about the neck of the^lad- der, the liquor of potass, with the tincture 0f opium, is a very useful remedy. In desperate cases, when all medical means fail, for the relief of su])pressed urine, the operation of puncturing the bladder becomes necessary, &c. RETENTION OF THE MENSES. It is frequently no easy matter, in some casesf^ to procure a flow of the menses j and?' when the disease has been of long standing, there are a variety of affections connected with it, that may be the means of a fatal termination. Previous to the use of medicine in this disease, it will be advisable to give a gentle emetic to cleanse out the stomach. After which tyi^o of the following pills may be taken twice or three times a day:272 Take Powdered Mynli J drachm; Sulphate of Iron 1 scruple ; Subcarbonate of Soda 15 grains; Extract of Peruvian Bark, enough to form the mass, which is to be divided into 24 pills; each dose of which is directed to be washed down with two table-spoonfiils of the following mixture; e. g.— Take Compound Infusion of Gentian G ounces; Compound Tinture of Bark, and Compound Tincture of Cardamoms, of each g ounce : OR, Tincture of the Muriate of Iron 1 ounce : The dose may be 15 drops three times a day in a glassful of cold water^ or in a decoction of Peruvian bark. Or the tonic mixture, recom- mended in immoderate flow of the menses, at page 107. Electricity, mercury, the mineral waters, par- ticularly the Txmbridge well, friMHiently prove serviceable in this disease. Th^patient should use daily exercise, keep agreeable company; live upon a light nutritious diet; remove, during the ^winter, to a southern part of the country, &c. ^ It should, however, be observed, that the mere want of the menstrual discharge may not produ^ie the disease; as it frequently does not make its appearance until the 17th or 19th year, and then without any morbid affection.273 SUPPRESSION OF THE MENSES. Any interruption to the menstrual flux, after it lias been once established, except when occurring from conception, is always to be considered as a suppression. Where it is proper to employ medicine to re- store the menses, any of the following forms may be given; viz.— Take Compound Tincture of Savin 1 ounce ; Tincture of Black Hellibore ^ ounce : Thirty drops, three times ^ay, in a wine glass* ful of pennyroyal water.^—(See Female Pills in the Appendix, p. 8). Also— Take the above Pill with Myrrh, and Compound Iron Pill, of each 1 drachm ; Subcarbonate of Soda 1 scruple; divide into l^ipills, and take two twice a day. on, Take Compound Tincture of Aloes 1 ounce ; Tincture of Castor 4 drachms ; Wine of Iron 1 ounce. Women should be cautious, in treating them- selves for this complaint, that they do not mis- take pregnancy for it. Nor can they be too careful, under an actual suppression of the menses, to avoid getting their feet wet, as well as all exposures to wet and cold. N 5274 DIFFICULT MENSTRUATION. This is to be removed by tonic medicines; Avarm bathing, general and topical 5 with the use of opiates, which should be early employed. Half a grain of the extract of scammony will not unfreq\iently be of ser^'ice in the complaint, when other anodynes fail. DERBYSHIRE NECK. This disease is marked by a tumour on the fore part of the neck, between the wind-pipe and sjiin. Although it i;^ common disease in Derby- shire, it is by no means of frequent occurrence in other parts of our 'island. It is known by the name of the " goitre " among the mountains of the Alps, Savoy, and Piedmont, where it prevails to a most hideous extent. It has been attri- buted to the use of the snow-w^r running -down into the valleys from the mountains. A new medicine, called " iodine," has lately proved successful in these tumours. Various means, are employed to discuss them : burnt sponge, made into lozenges, and suffered to dissolve gradually under the tongue, as an internal medicine, has been employed with some degree of success 5 e.g. Take Burnt Sponge 6 drachms; Powder of Gum Arabic 1 drachm; Powdered Ginger J drachm ; Common Syrup enough to form the mass :to be divided into 12 lozenges, one of which is to be used as "above directed. HEADACHE. Headache usually arises from a foul stomach, obstruction to the free circulation of the blood through the head, or too great a determination of blood to this part, long exposure to the ray§ of the sun, intoxication, translation of gouty or rheumatic affections, &c., consequently is more frequently an affection symptomatic of some other disease, than a primary oiie. When headache proceeds from an over-fulness of the vessels of the head, or too strong a determination to the vessels of the head, a sufficient quantity of blood may be taken from the arm, and leeches applied to^ the temples; if from foul stomach, it will be advisable to give an emetic; followed by some proper laxative, if costiveness prevail: if it be in con- sequence of a translation of gout or rheumatism, small blisters or stimulating embrocations may be applied to the extremities, in order to raise a slight degree of inflammation ;^ opening the body at the same time with some stomachic purgative, as the compound tincture of aloes, or rhubarb, &c.; if it proceed from a venereal taint, mer- cury must then be given, as in Syphilis; and, if it arise in consequence of some nervous276 aflfectioiij in which cases It is difficult to be entirely removed, aether, musk, ammonia, valerian, hark, steel, &c,, may he given as recommended in Hypochondriacism and Indigestion. TOOTriACHE. The toothache is so generally known and felt that no description of it is required here. It may proceed from caries of the teeth, rheumatic affec- tions, &c. In the former, the caries continues to corrode and spread deeper and deeper, until it penetrates the substance of the tooth ; and the external air with other matter getting into the cavity, stimulate the nerve, and bring on the toothache. For a carious tooth, the most effectual cure is to have it extracted; but where this mode may be objected to, or when such an ope- ration might not be advisable, palliative means must be resorted to, to relieve the acuteness of the pain such, for instance, as lint dipped in some of the essential oils, as cloves, cajepnt, nutmeg, &c. y or a small pill of opium and camphor, in- troduced and retained within the cavity of the tooth; also, blisters behind the ears; rubbing the jaws with some stimulating liniment, as an ounce of the spirit of camphor, three drachms of the solution of ammonia, and fifteen drops ofbergamot; increasing the excretions of the sali- vary glands, by pungent masticatories, such as horse-radish, pellitory of Spain, &;c., which have all been employed with various Agrees of success. Keeping the teeth clean, by washing them every morning with a soft brush or piece K)f sponge dipped in clean water, and frequently removing the tartar from them, twice or three times a weell, are among the best means of pre- serving the teeth. In scorbutic constitutions, where the gums incline to softness and spongi- ness, they may be washed now and then with the following antiseptic mixture viz.— Take Tincture of Bark , 2 ounces ; Tincture of Myrrh ^ ounce. Charcoal, finely powdered, is an excellent denti- frice, and by washing the mouth with a little of * it infused in water, it immediatelv removes the smell occasioned by a decayed tooth. People who value their teeth, bad as they may be, will do well to gua^ against the dentifrices usually offered for sale under various names. The principal ingredients of most of them being mineral acids, than which nothing can be more destructive to the enamel of the teeth.278 TIC DOLOUllEUX, OR PAINFUL AFFECTION OF THE NERVES OF THE FACE. This is one of the most painful chronic com- plaints to which the human frame is subject.* The principal relief in this disease has been derived from the operation of dividing some of the nerves of the face. This will keep off the pain for the space of three, or four months'; when, from the reunion of the divided nerves, it returns with all its pristine violence. The best medical treatment we are now ac- quainted with is, the exhibition of the carbonate of iron. The world is indebted to Mr. Hutchin- son, an eminent surgeon in Nottingham, for this valuable discovery. Mr. has published a work on * Sir Astley Cooper, Bart., in hi.; lecture (April 15), observed, that " The pain experienced by those afflicted with Tic Doloureux is indescribable ; it is of the most acute and distressing kind. I have seen it cause the tears to trickle down the cheeks a fine old weather-beaten naval officer, a man who had fearlessly faced the cannon's mouth." " It is in general like the pain of electricity—patients will exclaim ' Oh! I had a shock at tliat moment.' It pro- duces a kind of flickering through the nerves ; its motions are like summer lightning, and the pain cannot be com- pared to anything more appropriate than the horrid sen- sations created by electric shocks."279 the disease, in which the above medicine is highly spoken of; and the numerous trials that have been made of its efficacy, entitle it fairly to the appellation of an admirable remedy-—From half a drachm to a drachm of the carbonate of iron, mixed in honey, may be given twice or three times a day. PAIN IN THE STOMACH. This disease often takes place in those affected with symptoms of indigestion, such as heart- burn, eructation, flatulency. Sec. Heartburn arising from indigestion, is to be treated with antacids, calcareous earths, tonics, cvc. INIagnesia is one of the best remedies in heartburn ; for, combining with the acid of the stomach, it forms a purging salt; while prepared chalk, which is also taken in similar cases, forms an insoluble salt, and destroys the appetite in a few hours. The following form is well adapted for heartburn aris'ing from acidity in the stomach ; e. g.— Take Magnesia 2 drachms ; Componiid Powder of Chalk with Opium 1 drachm ; ^ Mucilage of Gum Arabic 2 drachms ; Water -6 ounces : Mix, and take two table-spoonfids, as occasion280 may require. In many cases of want of tone in the stomach, combined with acidity, a decoc- tion of Peruvian bark, in an equal quantity of lime water, is an excellent remedy, &c. (See Indiges- tion, p. 126.) THE GRAVEL AND STONE. A fit of the gravel is attended with a fixed acute pain in the loins, the thigh on the affected side is benumbed; there is also nausea and vo- miting, and sometimes a slight suppression of urine; and as the irritating matter removes from the kidney down into the urethra, it sometimes produces such pain as to bring on faintings and comailsive fits. The symptoms of gravel often resemble those of inflammation of ^the kidnies, but the reddish brown sand deposition, or very fine powder of the same colour, seen in the urine, on becoming cold, will show the difference. When stones are formed in the kidnies or bladder, all attempts hitherto to dissolve them have proved ineffectual, and the disease in males is only to be radically cured by the operation of lithotomy. In females, however, stones of mo- derate size, as well as extraneous substances that have accidentally escaped from the urethra into281 the bladder, have been extracted therefrom by means of dilating the passage with a bougie.* When the preference is given to a palliative mode of treatment (instead of the operation), Lithontriptics, that is, such medicines as have the supposed power of dissolving stones formed in the urinary organs, must be used, to prevent the farther increase of calculous matter; among which the fixed alkali appears to be the most powerful, used either in its caustic or mild-state j e. g.— Take Solution of Potass from 20 to 30 drops, three times a day, in a tea-cupful of veal broth. The dose may be somewhat gradually increased beyond this extent. Take Carbonate of Soda .... from 1 scruple to J dracbni, twice or thrice a day:— OK, Take iErated Potass 2 draclims, * Sir Astley Cooper has suggested an instrument, called the " Female Dilator," for the extraction of stones from the female bladder, which has been done with complete suc- cess ; and on several different occasions, stones of A ery large dimensions have been extracted. Also from the male Sir Astley has succeeded in removing small stones to a considerable extent, by a similarly-formed instru- ment to the preceding. (See Medico Chirurgical Transac- tions, vol. xii., part 2d.)282 twice a day, dissolved in half a pint of veal broth or distilled water, to which a tea-spoonful of brandy may be added, should it prove cold to the stomach: or, in the event of much irritation of the urinary passages, a*few drops of opium may be added, and discontinued when the pain ceases. OR, Take Soap Pills lo grains, for a dose night and morning : OR, Lime Water 1 pint, daily, mixed with milk : Soda "Water ^ pint, two or three times a day. In the acute fit of the gravel, where inflamma- tion of the kidnies comes on, or is to be apprehend- ed, bleeding, according to the age of the patient, should be early adopted; after which he should be put into the warm bath, and when taken out, flannel cloths,wrung out of an infusion of emollient herbs, or bladders filled with warm water, should be immediately and constantly applied over the parts j also, emollient and anodyne clysters may be frequently injected, until the irritation be removed.283 Take Compound Decoction of Mallows, or of Linseed Infusion 12 ounces ; Olive Oil 5 ounce; Tincture of Opium 60 drops : make a clyster. (See Clysters in the Appendix.) A grain of opium may also be taken every six hours. In endeavouring to correct the secretion of urine in gravelly complaints, which is an object of primary importance, the patient should drink copiously of aqueous fluids which are known to possess diuretic virtues. Spring or soft water is preferable to pump water. The Seltzer and Buxton waters hence have not unfrequently been used with much benefit in diseases of the urinary organs; and many have been relieved by using the garden leek prepared as follows: Take a handful of the Roots or Fibrous parts of the Leek, with a few Sprigs of Fennel, * and boil them in two quarts of water over a gentle fire, until one half be evaporated; pour off and strain the remainder 3 of which the patient may drink a pint a day. SCALDS AND BURNS. ^ In all accidents from burns and scalds, the part injured should be immediately plunged into284 cold watci-j or it should be pumped upon. The ease and benefit obtained by these means, will be sudden and serviceable. After the use of water for a due length of time, the injured parts may be covered with linen rags moistened with the same; and streams q{ air, by means of bellows, may be passed over tlij^.m, until a strong sense of cold arises. By this simple process, aciopted immediately after the accident, a large piece of skin, that has been but-ned '%o the ap- pearance of chairing, and surrounded by a high degree of inflammation, has been perfectly cured in a very short time, Avithout either ulceration or sloughing taking place, the crust coming off dry, and leaving a sound surface. The application of ice has also been much recommended by Sir James Earle, and other eminent practitioner-s. The following liniment has been in use for a length of time, in the practice of St. Tho- mas's Hospital,'in cases of burns or scalds, by smearing the parts over with a feather dipped in it. Take Olive Oil 3 ounces; / Lime Water 4 ounces; mix them for use. In all probabilit)', it might be more advisable, in preference to this, to use cold water, by means2S5 of linen cloths dipped in it, or either of the fol- lowing, as long as the parts are occupied by heat and inflammation, viz.— Take Rectified Spirit 2 ounces ; Lime Water ^ pint: OR, Take Solution of Acetate of Lead 1 drachm ; Spirit of Camplior 3 drachms ; Distilled Water 1 pint. The following is also a good application, used cold, where the skin is^i^ot broken in burns or scalds, keeping the parts constantly .moistened with it, by means of fine linen cloths :— Take Lime Water G ounces ; Proof Spirit 3 ounces. Equal parts of lime water and milk are also used to allay the heat and inflammation consequent upon burns and scalds; and to alleviate the pain and procure rest, as well as in those cases where the nervous system has received a severe shock, opiates, in sufficient doses, may be given. The after treatment will depend much on the circum- stances of the case itself. ERUPTIONS OF THE SKIN SCALLED HEAD BLOTCHED FACE—Rt1»G WORM—CHILBLAINS. ^ There is an eruption (herpes) of broad itchy spots, dispersed here and there over the skin, of286 a wlittish or red colour, which at length run into each other, discharge a thin serous fluid, and either form extensive excoriations or ulcers: its causes are referred to want of proper attention to cleanliness, damp situations, independent of some dispositions being particularly disposed to this kind of eruption : the best remedies for which, are the ointments prepared from the oxyd of zinc, and the white precipitate of mercury, &c.; for example— Take Oxyd of Zinc J drachm; Lard 1 ounce : OR, Take Ointment of the White Precipitate of Mercury. Where the disease assumes an inveterate form, it may be necessary to give the decoction of the woods, with Plummer's pills. (See Appendix.) The Itch.—-(See Ointments, &c., in the Ap- pendix.) Scalled Head.—Children are principally af- fected with this disease, particularly those of the poor. In many instances, however, it is propa- gated by contagion, from using the same comb, impregnated with some of the matter from the head of a person labouring under the disease. The treatment, which should be early adopted, consists in shaving the head close, and <:overing it afterwards with an ointment made of sulphur2S7 and pitch, or miniated mercury and pitch e. g,~ Take Tar 5 pound ; Yellow Wax jounce; Sublimed Sulphur 2 ounces ; dissolve and make an ointment: OR, Take Tar 2 ounces ; Oxymuriate of Mercury G grains ; mix, and make an ointment 3 previous to the use of which, the head should be washed with the following lotion : Take Sulphuret of Potass | ounce ; Lime Water 1 pint; Compound Liniment of Soap .... 1 ounce : or wash with a frothy solution cJf Castile soap and warm water, by means of a piece of flannel, &c. In case of scalled head, cutting off the hair as close as possible, washing the parts well ,with soap and water, and afterwards sprinkling them pretty thick, night and morning, with powdered charcoal, have proved very efficacious. The diet to be observed in this disease should be whole- some and nutritive ; avoiding salt meat or salted fish. If paid proper attention to in time, it seldom proves difficult of cure. Ring Worm,—This species of disease, affect- ing the skin, chiefly occupies the scalp, but288 sometimes other parts of the body, and most frequently arises from contagion, &:c. When this disease is not of an inveterate na- ture, it admits of being easily removed by washing the parts affected with some kind of astringent lotion, such as sulphate of zinc, one drachm; sugar of lead, fifteen grains; distilled water, six ounces. When it does not yield to this, a weak solution of the oxymurlate of mercury may be used, in the proportion of a grain to two ounces of water. Medicine is seldom necessary internally. In slight cases, common with some, is used a decoction of nutgalls, the astringency of which will often entirely remove the disease. Blotched Face.—A quack preparation, known under the name of Gowland's lotion, which is gene- rally supposed to contain some of the oxymuriate of mercury, in the proportion of a grain to the ounce of the vehicle (distilled water, proof spirit and water, &c.) is often extremely serviceable. (See Quack Medicines, at the end.) Internal medicines, in this disease, are supposed to have very little effect j the disease being purely of a local nature, external applications are usually sufficient for its removal. Chilblains,—^The fingers, toes, and heels, are generally the seats of this complaint; it arises in consequence of the application of severe cold;289 and children and old people are usually the sub- jects of it. To treat chilblains, they should be rubbed as soon as perceived with warm spirits of rosemary, to which, a small quantity of the oil of turpentine has been added. After which, pieces of soft lint, moistened with camphoratedspirits (or opodeldoc), one ounce and a half; tincture of Spanish flies, two drachms; may be constantly applied. When the swellings break, and discharge a thin matter, or ulcerate, poultices and emollient ointments, may be applied for a few days; bi^: these should not be long used from their aptness to produce proud flesh, which may be kept imder by means of pressure, or occasionally touching it with the lunar caustic, or equal parts of the nitrated oint- ment of quicksilver and spermaceti ointment. FROST BITTEN. Whenever a person has exposed his hands and feet to a very severe degree of cold, the excita- bility of these parts will be so much increased, that if they are brought too suddenly near a fire a violent inflammation and even mortification will take place ; which, indeed, has frequently hap- pened J or, at any rate, the preceding disease (chilblains) will be produced, from the violence of the heat upon those parts j but, if instead of o290 approaching the fire, a person under these cir- cumstances were to put his hands and feet into cold water, very Httle warmer than the atmos- phere to which he had been exposed, or rub them with snow, which is not often colder than thirty- %hree degrees, the morbid excitability will gradu- ally exhaust itself, and no bad consequences will ensue. When, therefore, the hands, feet, nose, or .any other part of the body, have been exposed to violent cold, or happen to be frost bitten, they should, in the first place, be either well rubbed with snow, or be put into cold water, and sub- jected afterwards to warmth by the most gradual and gentle means. WORMS. Worms are of four kinds :—1st, the Ascarides or maw-worms, chiefly to be met with in the rectum; 2d, the Lumbrices, which very much resemble earth-worms, met with throughout the whole of the intestinal canal, and which frequently crawl from the stomach up the gullet and out at the mouth ; 3d, the TcBnia, or tape-worm, which is not only the most destructive, but most dif- ficult of cure J 4th, Teres, a species of trian- gular worm, discovered by Professor Roederer, of Gottengen, in 1760. >291 All persons labouring under worms ought to discontinue the use of vegetable food^ particularly that of the raw description, as it increases the \'igour of the worms more than animal food. In tape-worm, the fern root, in powder, as prescribed by Madame NoufFer, in her celebrated remedy, has been efficaciously employed when other remedies have failed. The dose for an adult, of the male fern root, is from one to two drachms, fasting in the morning; after the e- cond dose, a purge, consisting of five grains of calomel and twenty-five grains of jalap is given. Spirit of turpentine, it appears, has recently been given with very good effect in tape-worm. The dose for a delicate female, will be an ounce; for a robust female or small man, one ounce and a . half 5 for a robust man, two ounces; taken early in the morning, in milk, when purging will be speedily produced by it, &c. Cowhage, made into an electuary with treacle or honey, is also given in tape-worm, and in that species of it which resembles the earth-worm. The dose is a table-spoonful night and morning; it should be taken before food, or immediately after- wards, but never on an empty stomach. After three or four doses, a purge of calomel and jalap, as here recommended, should be given. (See ; Electuaries, p. 331.) o2292 The powder and filings of tin cure all kinds of worms, and may be given to all ages and descrip- tions of people. The filings are preferable to the powder, and are quite harmless; the finest should be used, from a scruple to half a drachm. All Cathartics are anthelmentics, or worm-destroy- ers and are useful if the strength will admit of them, e. g. calomel and jalap, gamboge and jalap. A clyster, consisting of ten grains of cowhage to six ounces of thin gruel, is recommended to be thrown, up, to dislodge the maw-worms ; or one drachm of the extract of aloes dissolved in ten ounces of gruel. A few grains of jalap and calomel taken over night, and an infusion of senna tea the next morning, will also bring them away. Harrowgate water is a safe and powerful re- medy against the round and maw-worms, when taken in doses sufficient to move the bowels ; and used as a clyster, it will have a similar effect to the latter. ^ SPRAINS. (See Embrocations in the Appendix.) In the treatment of sprains, two circumstances are necessary to be attended to,—first, to check the swelling; and second, to use the best means for removing inflammation. For the first purpose, astringent applications, such as vinegar, ardent spirits, lees of wine, &c..293 may be made use of, to prevent effusion from taking place. Plunging the sprained limb also into the coldest water that can be procured, as soon after the accident as possible, is often at- tended with the best effects, and may be advised as the first step, till one or other of the preceding articles can be procured for a fomentation. With the second intention, a number of leeches may be applied to the swelled part, and repeated again the next morning, if the pain and inflammation do not readily give way. At night, a cold poultice of linseed meal and vinegar, where there is much pain and tension, may be applied, and an opiate (one grain of opium) given at bed- time. Rest is also indispensable ; and the limb should never %e kept in a pendant position. Should any weakness remain from the effects of the accident, pumping cold water every morning, and wearing a calico bandage for a length of time, to support the part, will be attended with beneficial effects. Soap liniment (opodeldoc) will be an useful anodyne and discutient application, &c. ON POISONS. Poisons are divided into four classes; vizi the Mineral, Vegetable, Aerial, and Animal; but we shall only here advert to those which have more294 frequently than others been the cause, acciden- tally or intentionally, of destroying life. MINERAL POISONS. 1. Arsenic.—When arsenic has been adminis- tered, or taken perhaps in mistake for some other medicine of a similar colour, a pricking and burning sensation will soon be felt in the stomach, sudden and excruciating pains in the bowels, severe vomiting, the tongue, mouth, and throat, will become rough and parched; and an un- quenchable thirst will prevail, with much anxiety and restlessness. If the dose has been consider- able, and proper antidotes have not been applied in time, inflammation of. the stomach and in- testines will be the consequence ;.,which will soon terminate in gangrene, giving rise to much dis- tension of the abdomen, coldness of the extre- mities, fetid vomiting and stools, hiccups, and lastly death. 2. Oxymuriate of Mercury.—The effects pro- duced by swallowing oxymuriate of mercury (corrosive sublimate) in a considerable dose, are nearly similar to those occasioned by Arsenic. From all poisons of the mineral class, to which both the above belong, more or less danger is always to be apprehended, but the degree of that danger will ever be in proportion to the quantity295 swallowed, and to the time which has elapsed previous to any assistance being given. In all cases of poison, arising from the effects of arsenic and oxymuriate of mercury, or any ^ other mineral, it will he necessary to procure as speedy and as quick vomiting as possible, after it has been swallowed, by means of a strong emetic (white vitriol, from 20 to 30 grains), drinking copiously aftemards of mucilaginous diluent liquors, such as barley water, gum arable, veal and mutton broths, linseed tea, and milk, in order to wash out the stomach and sheathe the parts, and to prevent them from being acted upon by the poisonous matter. In cases of poisoning by arsenic, the sulphuret of potass, in the proportion of a drachm to a pint of water, may be given frequently, also lime water, chalk and water, carbonate of magnesia, and fresh charcoal powdered, &c. But for this poison no specific antidote, unfortunately, has hitherto been discovered. The white of eggs is said to neutralize corrosive sublimate; when, however, other more efficient means are not at handj a stroiig solution of common soap and water may be drank. 3. Lead.—To obviate the effects of lead, opium, where there is much pain and spasm, warm bath, laxatives, such as castor oil, Glauber's296 salts, magnesia, purgative clysters, and gentle emetics, are to be employed 3 also common flour of sulphur, &c. 4. Verdigris.—When this poison has been re- cently swallowed, emetics should be given, and afterwards cold water, gently alcalised, should be drank in abundance. Those who liave eaten provisions prepared in a copper vessel badly tinned, are occasionally at- tacked, a short time afterwards, with symptoms characterising the effects of this poison, in which cases powdered charcoal has proved highly be- neficial when other remedies have failed. During convalescence from poison, which is frequently long and tedious, the patient, to ac- celerate his recovery, should live principally upon milk, gruel, farinaceous preparations, and nu- tritive herbs. The thirst, which usually accom- panies this state, may be allayed by frequently washing the mouth with cold water, which is preferable to drinking any great quantity of watery liquors, lest vomiting be excited or kept up by it. VEGETABLE POISONS. Among this class of poisons, opium and oxalic acid have been most frequently the cause of death.297 A large dose of opium, it is well known, is capable of destroying life. As soon, therefore, as it is discovered that this drug has been taken in a poisonous dose, the emetic of white vitriol should be immediately got down, and the dose repeated every ten minutes till vomiting comes on. After this, the patient should not be suffered to dose, but be kept in a state of continual agi- tation. Strong coffee may be given him to drink, and small draughts of liquors, strongly acidulated with lemon juice, vinegar, or sulphuric acid, &c. every ten niinutes; dashing cold water over the patient may also be used every now and then, rubbing the body with salt, mustard poultices to the palm of the hands, a large blister belween the shoulders, and the nostrils may be occasion- rally stimulated by means of a feather dipped in hartshorn, for the purpose of rousing the sys- tem, &c. &:c. Cases of poisoning by henbane, and other •vegetable narcotics, require much the same treat- ,ment as opium or its preparations. Oxalic Acid,—This acid is used for various domestic purposes, particularly for cleaning boot- tops, for giving an agi-eeable acidity to punch, &c. Numerous accidents have lately occurred from its Jbeing given and taken for Epsom salts, which, in ^appearance, but not in taste, it very much resembles, o 5298 The best antidote to this poison, if given very shortly after it has been taken, is a strong mix- ture of chalk and water, &c. AERIAL POISONS. Death is more frequently occasioned by these from accident than design; being caused by in- haling the pernicious fumes of certain metals, char- coal, coke, or fermenting liquors, as well as from sleeping in close unventilated apartments, or res- piring the foul air of wells, privies, caverns, &c. Pits, wells, deep vaults, &c., should never be entered immediately they are opened. As a pre- caution, a lighted candle or torch should first be let down 3 for, where these will not burn, animal life cannot long be sustained, and vice versa.— (For the treatment of these cases, see Suspended Animation, &c.) ANIMAL POISONS. Many of these have already been mentioned under the heads of Hydrophobia, Syphilis, &c. we shall now, therefore, only allude to the sting of the hornet, the bites of venomous rep- tiles, &c. Sting of the Wasp, or Hornet, 6fc.—^The sting of insects, in this country, seldom requires much attention. Gil, opium, hartshorn, or the sue-299 ciliated spirit of ammonia are the principal re- medies. Some apply vinegar and lemon juice, camphorated spirits, &c. It is always right to extract the sting, if possible. Bite of the Viper.—The poison of these ani- mals is found in capsules or bags, at the root of two movable fangs in the upper jaw. Their bite is productive of great inflammation, and the poi- son seems to operate chiefly on the nervous system. Treatment.—If the wound be received on the finger or hand, a light ligature (a piece of string) is to be applied above the bitten part to arrest the progress of the absorption of the fluids, and the part afterwards well sucked; and when this cannot be effected, the bitten part is recommended to be cut out, or cauterised with the pure kali, or inserting the powder of Spanish flies into the wound. Eau de luce may be applied externally and internally, as well as olive oil in the same manner, &c. The bite of the rattle-snake may be treated the same way. Poisonous Fish.—There are some kinds of fish, in this country, such as eels, salmon, herrings, and in peculiar constitutions, muscles, lampreys, and even lobsters, which, independent of their putrescency, produce a singular irritation on the300 system, and, during their digestion in the stomach, occasion a considerable efflorescence on the sldn, sometimes confined to one part only, at others spreading over the whole body, attended sometimes with considerable febrile disorder, and at other times with very little. In warm climates there are several fish pos- sessed of very deleterious qualities ; and it is a curious circumstance that the same fish which at one period is perfectly innocuous, is often highly pernicious at another,, &c. When any unpleasant symptoms arise after eating fish, a brisk emetic* of tartarised antimony, or of the sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), with copious diluent drinks, should be taken. Where there is much irritation at the stomach, without much purging, from 6 to 10 grains of the sub- muriate of mercury, 10 grains of colocynth, 1 grain of ojDium, with a sufficient quantity of sim- ple syrup, may be made into six pills, and taken for a dose. Spirituous liquors and other strong cordials have long been supposed to possess considerable power in obviating. the deletrious effects of poi- sonous fish; and those who are in the habit of taking a small glass of rum or brandy after eat- * See Emetics, ia the Appendix.301 ing fish, are not apt to suffer so much as those who neglect this simple precaution. Cayenne pepper is also taken with the same intention. SUSPENDED ANIIMATION AND RESUSCITATION. METHODS OF TREATMENT. Cautioiis. 1. Lose no time. 2. Avoid all rough usage. S. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt or spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke, or infusion of tobacco. Restorative means if apparently Drowned. Send quickly for medical assistance ; but do not delay the following means : I. Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders in a raised position, to the nearest house. IL Strip the body, and rub it dry; then wrap i302 it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. III. Wipe and cleanse the mouth and nostrils. IV. In order to restore the natural warmth of the body: 1. Move a heated covered warming-pan over the back and spine. 2. Put bladders or bottles of hot water or heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. S. Foment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, 4. Immerse the body in a warm bath, as hot as the hand can bear without pain, as this is pre- ferable to the other means of restoring warmth. 5. Rub the body briskly with the hand; do not, however, suspend the use of the other means at the same time. V. In order to restore breathing, introduce the pipe of a common bellows (where the apparatus of the Royal Humane Society is not at hand) into one nostril, carefully closing the other and the mouth; at the same time drawing downwards and pushing gently backwards the upper part of the windpipe, to allow a more free admission of air; blow the bellows gently, iu order to inflate the lungs,303 till the breast be a little raised; the mouth and nostrils should then be set free, and a moderate pressure made with the hand upon the chest. Repeat this process till life appears. VI. Electricity to be employed early by a me- dical assistant. VII. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy and water, or wine and water. VIII. Apply sal-volatile or hartshorn to the nostrils. If apparently Dead from intense Cold.—Rub the body with snow, ice, or cold water! Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if necessary, employ the means recommended for the drowned. In these accidents, it is highly dangerous to apply heat too early. If apparently Dead from Hanging.—In ad- dition to the means recommended for the drown- ed, bleeding should early be employed by a me- dical assistant. If apparently Dead from noxious Vapours, lightning, 5fc.—1. Remove the body into a cool fresh air. 2. Dash cold water on the neck, face, and breast, frequently. 3. If the body be cold, apply warmth^ as re- comroended for the drowned.304 4. Use the means recommended for inflating the hmgs in direction V. 5. Let electricity (particularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a medical assistant. If apparently Dead from Intoxication,—Lay the body on a bed, with the head raised : remove the neckcloth, and loosen the clothes. Obtain instantly medical assistance, as the treatment must be regulated by the state of the patient; but, in the mean time, apply cloths soaked in cold water to the head, and bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, to the calves of the legs and to the feet. If apparently Dead from Apoplexy.—The pa- tient should be placed in a cool air, and the clothes loosened, particularly about the neck and breast. Bleeding must be early employed by a medical assistant j the quantity regulated by the state of the pulse. Cloths soaked in cold water, spirits, or vinegar and water, should be kept ap- plied to the head, which should be instantly shaved. All stimulants should be avoided. In cases of coup-de-soleil, or strokes of the sun, the same means to be used as in apoplexy. General Observations.—On restoration to life, a tea-spoonful of warm water should be given ; and then, if the power of swallowing be returned,305 small quantities of warm wine, or weak brandy and water, warm ; the patient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouraged, ex- cept in cases of apoplexy, intoxication, and coup- de-soleil. Great care is requisite to maintain the restored vital actions, and at the same time to prevent undue excitement. The treatment recommended is to be perse- vered in for three or four hours. It is an er- roneous opinion, that persons are irrecover- able because life does not soon make its ap- pearance; and it is absurd to suppose that a body must not be meddled with or removed with- out the permission of a coroner.IAPPENDIX. DOMESTIC PHARMACY. Method of ■preparing the simple articles, SfC, for domestic purposes, Sfc. Sfc, with their properties and doses. INFUSIONS. By " infusion" is meant a process, which consists in pouring water of any required degree of temperature on such substances as have a loose texture, such as thin barks, leaves, flowers, seeds, &c. The following then are infusions, all of which require the water at the boil- ing heat. Camomile Tea.—Camomile flowers ^ ounce to a pint of water : emetic while warm ; stomachic when cold: also used wiih poppy heads, as a fomentation, &c. Compound Infusion of Orange Peel.—Dried orange peel, 4 ounces; fresh lemon peel, \ ounce; cloves, 2 drachms; to i pint of boiling water. Stomachic; dose 2 ounces every two hours. Linseed Tea.—Linseed, 1 ounce; liquorice-root, 4 drachms; boiling water, 2 pints. Let it stand for two hours near the fire, in a covered vessel, and strain. Infusion of Peruvian Bark.—Take of the lance-leaved Peruvian bark, 1 ounce; barley-water, 1 pint; pour the water over both, and let them stand for two hours : dose ^ ounce to ^ pint. Tonic.308 Infusion of Senna, Senna Tea.—Senna leaves, ll ounce; ginger root dried, 1 drachm; boiling water, 1 pint. Purgative; dose 4 ounces to six, but generally given as a vehicle for Epsom salts and other medicines. I/fusion of Tamarindt with Senna.—Tamarinds, 1 ounce; senna, 2 drachms; coriander seed, i drachm ; brown sugar, 1 ounce; boiling water, 1 pint: Laxative; from 2 to 6 ounces. Infusion of Roses.—Petals of red roses, 6 drachms ; spirit of vitriol, 3 drachms; white sugar, Ij- ounce; boiling water, 2i pints; lump sugar, 1^ ounce. Mostly used as a vehicle for Epsom salts, whose taste it covers very well; it is also gently astringent. Infusion of Quassia.—A scruple of the wood to 1 pint of boilinn; water. Compound Infusion of Mint.—Dried mint leaves, 2 drachms ; boiling water, enough to strain 6 ounces. When cold, add lump sugar, 3 drachms ; and oil of mint, 3 drops. The simple infusion of mint is made by pouring boiling water over any quantity of the leaves without any other addition. Infusion of Rhubarb.—Rhubarb, 1 drachm; water, J pint: 4 ounces of which, with neutral salts, 2 drachms to ^ ounce, may be taken as a stimulative purgative. DECOCTIONS. A decoction is any medicine made by boiling it in a watery fluid. Decoction of Marshnallozcs.—Take of dried marsh- mallow root, 4 ounces; raisins of the sun stoned, 2 ounces; water, 7 pints; boil down to 5 pints, strain the liquor, and set it outside to settle and cool. May be309 given as a common drink in diseases of the kidnies and other urinary passages. Compound Decoction of Camomile Flowers.—Dried Ca- momile flowers, \ ounce; fennel seed, 2 drachms; water, 1 pint. Compound Decoction of Guiacum—Gn'mcum, 3 oimces ; raisins of the sun stoned, sassafras and hquorice roots, of each 1 ounce; water 10 pints; boil down to 5. Altera- tive ; i pint to 1 pint a day. Decoction of Bark.—Bark, 1 ounce to 1 pint of water: boil for ten minutes. Tonic; 1 ounce to 4 in a day. Decoction of Barley (plain Barley Water).—Barley, 2 ounces ; water, 4^ pints: boil to 3 pints, and strain. Compound Decoction of Barley.—Take of the simple barley water, 2 pints; figs, 2 ounces; liquorice root, ^ ounce; raisins of the sun, stoned, 2 ounces; water, 1 pint; boil to 2 pints, and strain : demulcent; and may be taken at pleasure. Decoction of Liverwort.—Iceland moss, 1 ounce, to water li pint; boil down to 1 pint: nutritive in con- sumption, &c. Decoction of Poppy-heads.—Poppies, 1 ounce, to 1 pint of water : emollient as a fomentation. Decoction of Oak Bark.—Oak bark, 1 ounce; water, 2 pints; boil down to | pint: an astringent injection or lotion in gleets and the whites; or as a gargle, with the addition of 1 drachm of powdered alum, is rendered stronger and more powerfully astringent, if requisite, &c. Decoction of Sarsaparilla.—Sarsaparilla, 1 ounce, to 1 pint of water; boil down to ^ pint. Compound Decoction of Sarsaparilla (Lisbon diet drink).—Take Decoction of sarsaparilla; 4 pints; sassa-310 fras root, guiacum, and liquorice root, of each 1 ounce ; niezereon root, 3 draclims: alterative in secondary symptoms of syphilis, and other complaints, where a decoction of the woods is indicated; half a pint three tinges a day. Cooling Decoction.—Barley water, 1 pound; muriated acid, 1 drachm ; white sugar, J ounce: for common drink in putrid fevers. Imperial Drink.—Cream of tartar, \ ounce; white sugar, 4 ounces; orange peel, 3 ounces ; boiling water, 3 pints ; let them stand an hour, and strain : for common drink in fevers. MUCILAGES AND JELLIES. Hartshorn Drink.—Hartshorn, 2 ounces ; gum Arabic, 1 ounce ; water, 3 jjints; boil to 2 pints, and strain : de- mulcent ; merely mucilaginous. Gum Water.—Gum Arabic, 4 ounces, to water \ pint. Boiled Starch.—Starch, 3 drachms, to 1 pint of boiled water: as an astringent clyster. Biscuit Jellj/.—White biscuit, 4 ounces; water, 4 pints; boil to I pint; strain, and evaporate to 1 pint; then add, white sugar, 1 pound ; red wine, 4 ounces ; cinnamon water, 1 ounce: in dysentery and weakness of the stomach. Jclli/ of Iceland moss,—Iceland moss, 4 ounces; water, enough to strain 1^ pint; then add white sugar, 4 ounces : nutritive and tonic in consumption. Isinglass Jelly.—Isinglass, 2 ounces; water, 2 pints; boil to 1 pint, and strain; then add milk, 1 pint; white sugar candy, 1 ounce.311 EMULSIONS. Almond Milk.—Sweet almonds,* an ounce; bitter almonds (No.S); -white sugar, 2lbs; distilled water, 2 pints; orange flower water, 2 drachms: the bitter almonds improve the flavour. Or (2), Confection of almonds, an ounce; distilled water, 1 pint. Pectoral. Camphorated Emulsion.—Camphor, 1 scruple; sweet almonds, 2 drachms; lump sugar, 1 drachm; water, 4 ounces. Emulsion of Gum Arabic.—Gum Arabic, 2 drachms; sweet almonds and lump sugar, of each, i drachm; barley water, 1 pint. Oil of' Almonds Emulsion.—Oil of almonds, 1 ounce; gum Arabic, in powder, a drachm; simple syrup, 1 ounce; rose water, 1^ ounce: in coughs. SYRUPS. Syrups, in general, require 29 ounces of sugar to the pint. They are judged to be sufficiently boiled when some taken up in a spoon pours out like oil; and when a thin skin appears on blowing upon the syrup, it is judged to be completely saturated. Simple Syrup.—Sugar, 29 ounces to a pint of water. Syrup of Marshmallom.—Fresh roots of marshmal- lows, lib.; water, I gallon, boil to one half, press out the liquor, let it settle, and add 4lbs. of white sugar, and boil to six pints. Demulcent in tickling coughs. Syrup of Orange Feel.—Yellow part of Seville orange, * Steep the almonds in hot water for a minute or two, aud the 8kiu ox bark of them will afterwards peel easily off.312 2 ounces; boiling water, 1 pint: sleep for a night, de- cant, and add fine sugar, 3llis. Sijriip ef Horse-radish.—Juice of horse-radisli, a suf- ficient quantity, and sugat enough to make a syrup: a spoonful swallowed slowly removes hoarseness imme- diately. Pectoral Si/rup. Syrup of Capillairc.—Maidenhair, 5 ounces; liquorice root, 2 ounces; boiling water, 6 pints : steep for six hours, then strain and add 3lbs. of white sugar. In coughs, &c. Si/n/p of Saffron.—Saffron hay, 1 ounce ; canary wine, 1 pint: infuse for three days, press and add a sufBcient quantity of sugar (it may also be made with water in- stead of wine). Syrtip of Quinces.—Juice of Quinces, strained, 3 pounds; cinnamon, 1 drachm; cloves and ginger, of each, 12 drachm: let them digest for six hours, press, and add 1 pint of red wine; and white sugar, I5lbs. Astringent, in loosenesses. St/rup of Lemon Juice—Lemon Juice, rendered clear by settling and subsequent filtering, a pint; white sugar, 2lbs. Syrup of Horehound.—White horehound, 1 handful; boiling water, enough to strain a pint: infuse and strain, then add a sufficiency of sugar. Syrup of Mulberries.—This is made in the same man- ner as the syrup of lemon juice. Syrup of Poppies.—Add 25 drops of the Tincture of opium to 1 ounce of simple^yrup. 2. Or, Poppy heads, 1 pound; water, 3 pints: boil, press, and evaporate to 1 pint; then strain and add enough of sugar to make a syrup. Syrup of Roses,"'The petals of red, pale, or damask313 roses, 8 ounces ; barley water, 4 pints; infuse and evaporate to 2i pints, then add 6 pounds of lump sugar. Any quunlity of these syrups, Sfc. may be moile, more or Itss, by proportioning the ingredients. ELECTUARIES. Electuary for the Worms.—Powdered tin, 3 ounces; syrup of roses (or even treacle), J ounce; simple syrup, a sufficient quantity : dose, a table-spoonful every morn- ing for three days, to be succeeded by a brisk purge. 2. Or, Electnary of Cowhage.—Cowhage pods scraped into syrup, tdl they render it thick as honey: dose, a teaspoonful in the morning, fasting, as a vermifuge, a purge being given a clay or two afterwards. Electuary for the Files.—Take flour of sulphur, ^ ounce ; lenitive electuary, 2 ounces; nitre, 3 drachms ; syrup of orange peel: dose, the size of an ordinary-sized nutmeg, three or four times a day. Electuary for a Cough.—Spermaceti, 2 drachms; tragacanth powder, 1 drachm; syrup of poppies and syrup of tolu, of each, 2 drachms; confection of roses, G drachms; nitre, ^ drachm: dose, size of a nutmeg, frequently. Electuary in Retention or Suppression of the periodical Discharge.—Myrrh, 1 scruple; ammoniated iron, C grains; syrup of ginger, enough: size of a nutmeg, twice a day. PILLS. Stomachic and Laxative Pills.—Rhubarb, in powder, 1 ounce; soccotrine aloes, 6 drachms ; myrrh, | ounce; oil of peppermint, J drachm ; syrup of orange peel, enough to form the mass: to be made into pills of five grains each; four of which may_b« taken twice a day. P i314 Composing Pills.—Purified opium, J drachm ; extract of liquorice or Spanish soap, 2 drachms : make 30 pills, one of which may be taken at bed-time, as occasion may require. Calomel Pills.—Calomel, 3 grains; jalap, 9 grains ; mucilage of gum arabic, enough to form three pills : to be taken at bed-time. Cathartic. Worm Pills.—Gamboge, 8 grains ; calomel, 5 grains : make into a pill with mucilage of gum arabic, for one morning dose. Cathartic Pills.—Compound extract of colocynth, 1 drachm; opium, in powder, 3 grains; oil of nutmegs, 6 drops: make 12 pills: dose, 2 every hour, until two stools be obtained : or, 2. Calomel, 10 grains ; gamboge pill, with compound extrack of colocynth, of each, 15 grains; syrup of gin- ger, enough to make the whole into 12 pills : two to be taken night or morning, when costive. POWDERS. Purging PoioJcrs.—Rhubarb, 25 grains; cream of tar- tar, 1 drachm: or, jalap, 1 scruple; cream of tartar, 1 drachm. Powders to promote Perspiration.—AnhmonidX PoAvder, 8 grains; cream of tartar, 6 grains : or, antimonial powder, 7 grains ; nitre, 5 grains : or, compound pow- der of ipecacuanha, from 5 to 30 grains, in—fevers, &c. Savine Powder.'—Powder of savine leaves, verdigrease, and red precipitate, of each, J ounce : applied to stimu- late and consume fleshy tumours, warts, &c. Worm Powder.—Common salt, 2 drachms; cochineal, 2 scruples; half a drachra every morning.315 Tonic Powder in Agues.—Peruvian bark, ^ ounce; Epsom salts, 6 drachms: one to be given every other hour: or, ammoniated iron, 5 grains; rhubarb, 3grains, once a day: or, tartarized iron, 10 grains; cucumber root, 15 grains, for a dose: to be taken four times a day. MIXTURES. Mixture of Ammoniacum.—Ammoniacum, 2 drachms; water, ^ pint: expectorant in coughs, &c. Antispasmodic Mixture. — Asafcetida, 2 drachms; water, ^ pint. Camphor Mixture.—Camphor, ^ drachm; rectified spirit,10 drops (to dissolve the camphor); water, 1 pint; or, shake a piece of camphor for a few minutes in a pint of hot water, in a bottle; cork, and let it stand for an hour. Tartar Emetic Mixture.—Antimony wine, § ounce; nitre, 2 scruples; mint water, 6 ounces; simple syrup, i drachm. To promote perspiration; dose, from one table-spoonful to four, night and morning. Purgative Mixture.—Epsom and Glauber's salts, of each, 3 drachms; mint water, 5^ ounces; antimony wine, 1 drachm: dose, two table-spoonfuls twice a day: or, castor oil, ^ ounce, beat up with a sufficient quantity of the yolk of an egg; syrup of poppies, 2 drachms; tincture of opium, ^ drops; water, 1 ounce: in Devon- shire, or painter's colic, (for which see p. 182). Pestorative Mixture.—Carbonate of ammonia, k drachm; mint water, 7 ounces; syrup of orange peel, 4 ounce: a small spoonful when the patient is faint. Windy Colic Mixture.—Camphor mixture, 1 ounce; spirit of sulphuric aether, 2 drachms; compound tincture of cardamoms, i ounce; spirit of aniseed, 6 drachms; p2316 oil of canary, 12 drops; syrup of ginger, 2 drachms; mint water, C ounces: dose, two table-spoonfuls oc- casionally. Antacid Mixture.—Liquor of potass, 2 drachms ; lime water, 6 ounces: dose, one or two spoonfuls occasionally in beef tea, in heartburn, hiccups, &c. EMETICS. Ipecacuanha wine, 1 drachm ; tartar emetic, 1 grain; water, li ounce. 2. Ipecacuanha in powder, i drachm; tartar emetic, 1 grain ; tincture of squills, 1 drachm; water, 8J ounces: dose, three table-spoonfuls at first, and two or more every fifteen minutes, until it operates. 5. Tartar emetic, 2 grains; water, 4 ounces: dose, two table-spoonfuls eveiy quarter of an hour, until it has-operated sufficiently. 4. Blue vitriol, 2 grains; water, 2 ounces, for a dose. Emetic Pills.—White vitriol, a scruple; conserve of hips, enough to make a bolus: to be taken for one dose, drinking camomile tea. OINTMENTS, CERATES, ETC. Cooling Ointment.—Hog's lard, 2 pounds; white lead, 1 pound : to excoriations. Cleansing Ointment.—Linseed oil, pint; elecampane, 2 ounces; verdigrease, 2 drachms: to foul sores. Spermaceti Ointment.—Olive oil and white wax, of each, 4 ounces; spermaceti, J ounce. Itch Ointment.—White Hellebore Oijtment.—Root of ■white hellebore, 3 ounces; hog's lard, 1 pound: used in itch, for the upper ranks of society, who object to sul- phur.317 '2. Hog's lard, 1 pound; sulphur, 4 ounces; essence of lemon, 10 drops. Red Lip Salve.—White wax, 2 ounces; olive oil, 2J ounces; spermaceti, 2 drachms; oil of lavender, 10 drops; alkanet, or vermillion, to colour it. ^EMBROCATIONS. Embrocation for Lumbago.—Oil of turpentine rubbed on the loins, and taken inwardly, 20 to 30 drqps, in peppermint water, three times a day. Compound Embrocation of Opium.—Tincture of opium, and spirit of sulphuric jelher, of each, 2 ounces ; spirit of camphor, 2 ounces : mix. In deep-seated pains in the neighbourhood of the ear this generally relieves sooner than any other application ; in tooth-ache it will often give instant exse ; in sciatica it is of great benefit, and in painful aff ections of the muscles it sometimes acts as an immediate specific. Embrocation for Strains and Bruises.—Acetated liquor of ammonia, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 3 ouncesl 2. Camphor, ^ ounce; spirits of wine, ^ i)int; distilled vinegar, 6 ounces; water, 3 ounces ; dissolve the cam- phor in the spirits of wine, then add the vinegar aXidr water. 3. Soap Embrocation.—White hard soap, 3 ounces ; spirits of wine, | pint; spirit of hartbhorn, 4 ounces; camphor, 1 ounce: as before. LOTIONS, EYEWASHES, ETC. Lotion for CInlblains—Alum, distilled vinegar, and white vitriol, of each, g ounce ; water, 2 pints.318- lotion for Scorlutic U/ccn.—Tineture of "myrrh and lime water, of each, 2 ounces. Black Wash.—Calomel, 2 drachms; lime vfater, 1 pint: in sjphlletio ulcers, &c. Acetated Lotion of Ammonia.—Rectified spirit of wine, 2 ounces; acetated liquor of ammonia, 5 ounces : in phlegmonous or local inflammation. Eye Water.—Sugar of lead, 6 grains; rose water, 6 ounces. 2. White vitriol, 10 grains ; rose water, 8 ounces. 3. Liquor of acetated ammonia, 2 ounces ; 'camphor mixture, 6 ounces. This is a good application after oph- thalmy, when the eyes are relaxed and weak. 4. In the purulent Sore Eyes of Children: Blue vitriol, 3 grains ; camphor mixture, 5 ounces. 5. In painful Sore Eyes: Opium, 10 grains, dissolved in 12 ounces of boiling water, and strained; to which add 6 grains of camphor. GARGLES. Gargle in TArusA.—Borax, finely powdered, 2 drachms; honey, 1 ounce; rose water, 7 ounces. Gargle in Inflammatory Sore Throat.—Nitre, 2 drachms; iioney, \ ounce; rose water, 6 ounces : used frequently : also, spirit of salt, 20 drops; honey, 1 ounce; water, 4 ounces. Gargle for Venereal Ulcers in the throat:—Corrosive sublimate, 3 grains; distilled water, 1 pint. Myrrh Gargle.—Infusion of roses, 7^ ounces; tincture of myrrh: mildly astringent and cleansing. Bose Gargle.—Infusion of roses, 4 ounces ; honey of roses, or syrup of mulberries, 1 ounce : this is a simple and elegant gargle for common purposes.319 FOMENTATIONS. Hemlock Fomentation.—Boil ^ pound of the fresh leaves of hemlock, or 3 ounces of the dried herb, in a quart of water for half an hour, and strain. Poppy Fomentation.—The capsules and seeds of poppy heads, 2 ounces; distilled water, 3 pints: cut the capsule of the poppy into 3 slices; bruise these and the seeds; afterwards boil in the water to one pint, and strain. Camomile Fomentation.—Camomile flowers, i ounce; seeds of sweet fennel, 2 drachms; distilled water, Ipint: boil for ten minutes, and strain. POULTICES. In, Inflammation of the Eyes.—Alum, 1 scruple; con- serve of roses, 1^ ounce; beat up with the yolk of an egg- Poultice in Gangrene and Fetid Ulcer.—Linseed, ^ pound; prepared charcoal, 2 ounces; hot water, enough ta bring them to a proper consistence. Poultice in Open Cancer.—Boil two handfuls of hem- lock leaves in a pint of water; then strain, and add lin- seed or oatmeal to thicken. Carrot Poultice.—Boil half a pound of carrots in a sufficient quantity of water, uritil they become soft; extract the juice, and beat them into a pulp, and make a poultice, adding the juice again : for scorbutic ulcers, or foul cancerous sores. Linseed Meal Poultice.—Hot water and linseed meal, equal parts; smear the surface with oil or hog's lard be- fore applied: to promote suppuration. Also, crumbs of bread, linseed meal, and hot milk, for the same purpose.320 Effervescent Poultice.—Wheat flour, 1 pound; fer- mented yeast, J pint: mix, and expose to a gentle heat until it begins to ferment: applied on gangrenous parts. Foultice to alleviate Pain.—Soak bread in a boilin" decoction of poppy heads, and apply it. The bread poultice, made with port wine, will be found a beneficial application in gangrene.* CLYSTERS. Cathartic or Purging Clyster.—Com])ound decoction of mallows, 10 ounces; Epsom salts, 1 ounce; olive oil, 2 ounces. 2. Take manna, 1 ounce; decoction of camomile flowers, 10 ounces; olive oil, 1 ounce; Epsom sails, | ounce. Opiate Injection.—Infusion of linseed, 8 ounces ; tinc- ture of opium, 1 drachm : in pains from stones in the bladder, &c. Injection of Cinchona (Peruvian bark).—Bark, in pow- der, 1 ounce; camomile flowers, 2 drachms; distilled water, 1 pint: boil down to 10 ounces, and strain. This is an excellent t<»nic injection, and may be used in cases where the bark cannot be given in any other way. * Sir .Astley Cooper, in liis lectures, relates a case of a giil, who lately had a gangrenous sore ou the pudenda, where a va- riety of applications were tried without effect. The port wine poultice was at length applied, the immediate efficacy of which v/as so apparent, that though her life had been despaired of, the last time Sir Astlcy saw her, the sore was brought into sucli a healtliy state that there were great hopes of her recovery. The port wine poultice is also recommended, by the same emi- nent surgeon, as tlie best local application to gangrene caused by injuring the toe in cutting corns.9 321 Injection of Starch zcith Opium. — Starch, from one drachm to two; cold water, 2 ounces; warm water, 4 to 6 ounces; opium 2 grains to 4. Rub the powdered opium and starch together till they are minutely divided; then add, gradually, the cold water, and lastly the hot water. A common Injection.—Baxley water, from 1 pint to 2; olive oil, 2 ounces; Epsom salts, 1 ounce: mix them for use:—or, to the barley water add from 2 to 3 ounces of olive oil. The first is \rell calculated for emptying the lower bowels, without stimulating them too forcibly. When the decoction of barley is used for injections, it should be much thinner than as directed for a demul- cent drink, which, if diluted with an equal portion of boiling water, answers very well. Injection of the Gall Nut.—Powdered galls, 1 ounce; distilled water, pint: boil to a pint, and strain., This injection, administered t^vo or three times a day, will be found to afford considerable relief, where there exists a tendency to a frequent falling down of the fun- dament ; and it is also often very proper in the bleeding piles; and, in some cases, two or three grains of opium will give increased effect to this injection. Injection of Castor Qil.—Castor oil and honey, of eacli, 1 ounce; infusion of linseed, 10 ounces : rub the castor oil with the honey until they become intimately blended, and add the linseed infusion gradually. When an injection is intended to act quickly on the lower bowels, this will be found, in general, safe and effectual. p 5322 A LIST OF POPULAR AND OTHER QUACK MEDICINES, WITH THE QUALITY, QUANTITY, AND DIVEKSITY OF THEIR INGEEDIENTS. American Soothing Syrup.—Simple syrup (i. e. white sugar and water), tincture of opium and alum, coloured ■with saffron or alkanet root.—Dangerous; producing costiveness and subsequent griping pains; allaying irrita- tion for a moment to be reproduced by a ten-fold degree of suffering, that will require the dose of this deleterious nostrum to be increased in an equally multiplied propor- tiou.-—(See Teething, " Mother's Medical Pocket Book, 2d edition.") Anderson^s Scot's Fills.—Barbadoes aloes, 1 ounce; black hellibore root, jalap, and prepared kali (salt of wormwood), ~ drachm each; oil of aniseed, 24 drops; simple syrup, enough to form the mass : to be made into moderate sized pills ; and one, two, or three to be taken occasionally. Aromatic Lozenges of Steel.—Sulphate of iron, and tincture of cantharides. Barclay's Antihilious Pills.—Ext. colocynth, 2 drachms; ext. of jalap, 1 drachm; almond soap, drachm; gui- acura, 3 drachms ; tartarised antimony, 8 grains; essen- tial oil of juniper, carraway, and rosemary, of each, 4 drops, formed into a mass with syrup of buckthorn, and divided into sixty-four pills.323 Bates'Ano(li/ne Ba/saw.—One part of tincture of opium, two parts of opodeldoc. Black Drop.—Take ^ pound of opium sliced, 3 pints of good verjuice, 1| ounce of nutmegs, and | ounce of saffron; boil them to a proper thickness, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two spoonfuls of yeast; set the whole in a warm place, near the fire, for six or eight weeks, then place it in the open air until it becomes a syrup; lastly, decant, filter, and bottle it up. One drop is considered equal to three of the tincture of opium of the pharmacopoeia. Brodum's Nervous Cordial consists of the tincture of gentian, calurnba, cardamom, and bark, with the com- pound spirit of lavender and wine of iron. Chelsea Pensioner.—A cure for the rheumatis«i. Pow- dered guiacum, 1 drachm; rhubarb, 2 drachms; cream of tartar, 1 ounce ; floU^r of sulpliur, 2 ounces ; 1 nutmeg finely pondered; make into an electuary, with one pound of clarified honey ; 2 large spoonfuls night and morning. Clung s Worm Lozenges.—Chiefly calomel and jalap. . f Culler's Depilatory.—Quick lime and sulphurate of potash. (I suspect orpiment in this compound). Duffy's Elixir,—Compound tincture of senna, of the Edinburgh pharmacopoeia, sweetened with treacle, and flavoured with aniseed and elecampane root. Dicey's Daffy, and Swinton's Daffy, differ little from each other. Dalhys Carminative.—Magnesia, 40 grains; oil of peppermint, 1 drop j of nutmeg, 2 drops; of aniseed, 3 drops; tincture of castor, 30 drops; of asafoetida, 15 drops; of opium, 5 drops; spirit of pennyroyal, 15 drops;324 compound tincture of cardamoms, 30 drops; pepper- mint water, 2 ounces. Dinner Pills—Lady Crespigni/'s Pills—Lndy Webster's Pills.—Aloes, 6 drachms ; mastich and red roses, of each, 2 drachms; syrup of wormwood, enough to form the mass. JDuke of Portland's Gout Powder.—The root of beelh- worth, tops of the common germander, and of the lesser centaury, equal parts, powdered. Eaton's Styptic.—Green Vitriol calcined, 1 drachm ; proof spirit, tinged yellow with a little oak bark, 2 pints. , Eau d' Husson.— Wine of Meadow Safron.—Is said to be a mixed tincture of wine of henbane and colchicum. A tincture of meadow saffron has been proposed for it by Want; a tincture of hedge hyssop is said to be sold for it by Reed ; and a wine of white hellebore proposed by More, None of them, it appears, possess the same character as the Parisian medicine: givea in gout and rheumatism. (iSce Gout, p. 67, for a similar preparation.) Essence of Colt's Foot.—This preparation (says Dr. Paris), consists of equal parts of the balsam of Peru and the compound tincture of benzoin, to which is added double the quantity of rectified spirits of wine j and this forsooth, is a. pectoral for coughs.' If a patient with a pulmonary affection should recover, during the use of such a remedy, I should rather designate it as a lucky escape than a skilful cure. Family Pills—Anlihilious Pill.',.—Soccotrine aloes, 1 ounce; extract of ginger, enough. ' Or, 2. Soccotrine aloes and hard soap, equal parts ; sim^325 pie syrup, enough: dose of cither, from 5 to 15 grains; made into five-grain pills. Female Pills.—Vitriolated iron, 12 grains ; soccotriue aloes, l-i drachm; finely powdered Spanish flies, 24 grains ; essential oil of caraway, 20 dr,ops : to be made into 90 pill§; two to be taken morning and evening, in obstruction of the menses, &c. Ford's Balsam of liorehound.—Horchound and. liquo- rice root, of each, 3lb. 8oz.; water, suflicient to strain 6 pints; infuse; to the infusioa add proof spirit or brandy, 12 pints; camphor, 1 ounce and 2 drachms; purified opium and benjamin, of each, 1 ounce ; dried squills, 2 ounces ; oil of aniseed, 1 ounce; honey, 3lbs. 8 ounces. Freeman's Bathing Spirits.—Opodeldoc covered with Dafly's elixir. Friar's Balsam (for cuts).—Benjamin, 3 ounces; strained storax, 2 ounces ; balsam ofTolu, 1 ounce; soc- cotrine aloes, y ounce ; rectified spirits of wine, 2 pints. Godbold's Vegetable Balsam.—Honey and vinegar. Gowland's Lotion.—Bitter almonds, skinned, 1 ounce ; white sugar, 2 ounces; distilled water, 2 pounds; grind together, strain and add 2 scruples of corrosive sublimate, previously rubbed down with two drachms of the rec- tified spirit of wine: used as a wash in obstinate erup- tions of the skin. Goulard's Lotion,—Extract of lead, 1 ounce; rectified spirit of wine, 1 drachm; rose water, J pint: cooling. Goulard's Fye-vcnler.—Extract of lead, 20 drops ; rose water, 4 ounces : cooling and astringent.226 Greevovgh's Tincture for the Tec<A.—Bitter almonds, 2 ounces ; Brazil wood and cassia berries, of each, i ounce; florentine iris, 2 drachms; salt of sorrel and alum, of each, 1 drachm; rectified spirits of wine, 2 pints ; spirit of scurvy grass, J ounce. Guestonian Embrocation for Rheumatism. — Olive oil and oil of turpentine, of each, 1| ounce; spirit of vitriol, 3 drachms : to be rubbed on the affected part, wrapped up in flannel. Hooper's Pills.—Salt of steel, 2 ounces; powder of aloes with cinnamon, 1 pound ; mucilage of gum tra- gacanth, and tincture of aloes, of each a sufficient quantity to form the mass : divide each drachm, in weight, into 18 pills: one, two, or three for a dose. Tonic, purgative, and stomachic. James's Analeptic PiZ/*.—James's Powder, gum ammo- niacum, pill of aloes, with myrrh, of each, equal parts, made into a mass with tincture of castor. Newmarket Oil.—Linseed oil, oil of turpentine, and oil of St. Jolan's wort, of each, 4 ounces ; oil of vitriol, 2 drachms : used in sprains; also in lumbago and rheu- matism. ■ Norris's Drops.—A coloured solution of lartarized an- timony in rectified spirit. Hemedies for the Hooping Cough.—Either opiates or medicines containing sulphate of zinc. Roche's Embrocation for the Hooping Cough.—Olive oil, mixed with half its quantity of the oils of cloves and amber. Rjispini's Tincture for the Tee^A.—Florentine iris root,327 8 ciiECcs clcves, 1 ounce; rectified spirit, 2 pints; am- bergris, 1 scruple. Radcliff's Purging Elixir,—Jalap root, 6 ounces; cape aloes, 5 ounces ; gentian root, 2 ounces; white cinna- mon, 1J ounce; orange peel, 1 ounce; grains of para- dise, |- ounce; proof spirit, 2 gallons : steep for three weeks, strain, and add Aleppo scammony, jalap, and senna, in powder, of each, 1 ounce. Rhymer's Cardiac rinefwre.—Capsicum, camphor, lesser cardamoms, rhubarb, aloes, and castor, in proof spirit, with a few drops of the oil of vitriol. Solomon's Balm of G Head.—-An aromatic tincture, of which cardamoms forms the leading ingredient, made with brandy. Some practititioners have asserted that catttharides enter into its composition. Steer's Opodeldoc Castile soap, one ounce ; rectified spirit, 8 ounces; camphor, 3^ ounces; oil of rosemary, § drachm ; oil of origanum, 1 drachm ; solution of ajTiimonia, 6 drachms. Struve's Lotion for Hooping Cough.—Emetic tartar, t drachm, to 2 ounces of water; dissolve, and add 1 4rachm of the tincture of Spanish flies. Taylor's Remedy for Deafness.—Garlic, infused in .oil of almonds, and coloured by alkanet root. Taylor's Red Bottle—Whitworth's Red Bottle—British brandy, coloured with cochineal and flavoured with oil of marjorum. Whitehead's Essence of Mustard,-^0\\ of turpentine, camphor and spirit of rosenjiar^, Avi^tl]. ^ little flour of mustard to colour it.TABLE yOR SHOWING THE PROPORTIONATE DOSES OF MEDICINE AT DIFFERENT AGES. Suppose one drachni a sufficient Dose for an adult, (i.e. for a person of 21 years,) tlien the other ages will require the following proportions: Ages. Common Dose, a Drachni. Proportionate Dose. Weeks 7 -t'tj of a Drachm, or 4 grains Months 7 14 28 I I 1 6 grains 7 grains and a half 12 grains Years 3^ 5 7 14 21 63 77 100 i i 1 2 Common Dose 1::::::::;:;::;:: 4 1 15 grains 1 scruple J drachm 2 scruples 1 drachm 55 grains 50 grains 40 grains329 rOR DOMESTIC PURPOSES. Tiie following articles are necessary to the proper dis- pensing of medicines, requiring accurate preparation, measuring, weighing, Sec.:— A spatula for mixhig ointment, making pills, Sic. A tile, on which the preceding articles may be made or divided. A glass funnel. A clyster-pipe and hag. A graduated glass for measuring fluids; which has a scale from half a drachm upwards to two ounces, or more. The first lino marks half a drachm, the second one drachm, the third two drachms, the fourth three drachms, the fifth four drachms (or half an onnce), and so on. As these measures, as well as the weights, are marked with their proper characters, it will be proper to point them out, so as to render them intelligible:— Marked Thus 2 oz. 16 — 14 — li oz. 12 — 10 — 1 oz. 8 — 7 — ' 6 — 5 — i oz. 4 — 3 — 2 — 1 — Lint. Scales and weights. Small glass mortar and pestle. Sponge, &c.330 THE FOLLOWING TABLES Show the weights and measures used by apothecaries, and the signs by which they are denoted; which are those, of course, which should also regulate the practice of every one who undertakes to prescribe for the sick. WEIGHTS. The pound - . -Ib^ fTwelve ounces. ounce - - - ^ I g I Eight drachms. drachm - - 5 Three scruples. scruple - - - 3 I cj 1 Twenty grains* ■ grain - - - grj [_ MEASURE OF FLUIDS. The gallon - - cong."| pint - - (octaivus) ] g "Eight pints. Sir teen fluid drachms. fluid ounce - f ^ ^5 <| Eight fluid drachms, fluid drachm - f 5 ] ^ j Sixty minims, minim or drop iri^J * The grain weights are marked, exclusive of the stamp upon them, with a particular impression for each grain. The scruple and drachm are marked with the above corresponding impressions. ■Alum Whey is made by boiling from 1 drachm to 2 in A KEY TO THE DOMESTIC IMEDICINE CHEST. ■J f The following articles are those commonly contained in the domestic medicine chest, with their usual doses, virtues, &c. Mther, Rectified.—(Dose, ^ drachm to 2 drachms, com- bined with distilled aromatic water, or brandy, &c.); given in hysterics, spasms, or other painful diseases, vo- miting, &c. The vapour of sether drawn into the lungs, three or four times a day, is frequently of service in asthma, catarrh, croup, hooping cougj^j, &c. Aloes.—(Dose, 5 grains to 15); in habitual costiveneSs from a sedentary life, or torpor of the intestinal canal, as a gentle laxative : 2 grains to 5 once or twice a day. Aloetic Wine.—(Dose, J ounce to 2 ounces); purga- tive and stomachic. Given in phlegmatic, hypochondria- cal, or paralytic complaints, and habitual costiveness. In suppression of the menstrual discharge, two tea-spoonfuls taken and continued, twice a day, will frequently bring them to their natural course ; which may be assisted by immersing the feet in warm water. Alum.—(Dose of the powder, 5 grains to 15), astrin- gent tonic; and in large doses, emetic and cathartic. It is given in colic, diabetes, diarrhoea; bleeding from the nose, lungs, and womb; agues, &c.332 a pint of milk, and strained; the dose of this is u^ally from 2 ounces to 4, often. It is used externally for eye- washes, gargles, injections, &c.; and when employed as a gargle or injection, a drachm of the powder may be added to a pint of the decoction of oak bark—(see Fluor Albus, p. 2G5). This may also be snuffed up the nose, in cases of bleeding from this part, &,c. Antimonial Powder.—(Dose, 3 grains to 8, every three or four hours.) Given in fevers to promote perspiration, assisted by drinking plentifully of some mild diluent fluid; also, in acute rheumatism, gout, &c.: ki larger doses it operates as an emetic, and a purgative. It can- not be dissolved in water; it is therefore advisable to take it in jelly, barley vvater, or some other mucilaginous vehicle. Bark, Peruvian.—(Dose, 10 grains to 2 drachms, in milk, aromatic waters, infusion of liquorice, wine, or in the form of an electuary.) Its virtues are Ionic, antisep- tic (a corrector of putrescency), and astringent. It is given in agues, after cleansing out the stomach and in- testines ; ;n fevers, in putrid sore throat, in tj'^phus fever, gangrene^' green sickness, epilepsy, &c. &c. It may be given either in the form of an infusion, in water or wine, or in decoction, in doses from 2 ounces to 4, three or four times a day. Also, externally, in the form of clysters, or poultices, to foul and gangrenous ulcers, &c. A scruple of bark, taken three times a day, has suc- ceeded in removing periodical head-aches. In some the bark is apt to excite purging, when this is the case, from 3 to 5 drops of laudanum may be added to each dose; in others costiveness, in this case, from 5 grains to 10 of rhubarb may be added; and il" it gripe or occasions pain in the bowels, from ,lp to 20 grains of powdered ginger333 or powdered cinnamon may be added, to prevent this efl'ect.—(See Bark Decoction.) Borax.—This medicine is rarely used internally ; but is more frequently used in aphthous affections of the mouth, such as tlie thrush in infants, idcers of the throat and bowels, Sec, in the form of lioney of Borax, i. e. a drachm of the borax, finely po\Tdered, mixed with clari- rified honey ; with this the parts should be touched fre- quently, or a small quantity put into a child's mouth. Camphor.—(Dose, 5 grains.) To promote perspiration, alleviate pain, &c.; known to every old woman as a cor- dial. Castor Oil.—( Dose, from 2 ounce, to 1 ounce.) Pur- gative. Camomile Flowers.- -(See p. SOT-0.) Used in decoction and infusion. Cream of Tartar.—(T>ot,e, 1 drachm to 3, dissolved in water.) Purgative, cooling, and diuretic. Dover^s Powder.—(Dose, 5 grains.) Febrifuge, Dia- phoretic. Friar's Balsam.—Used, though frequently very injudi- ciously, to recent wounds. Ginger Powder.—Stomachic: added to other medi- cines, such as bark, &c. Clanler's Salts.—Dose, half an ounce: purgative. Goulard.—(See quack medicines, page 325). Gum Arabic.—Demulcent: used as a vehicle for other medicines, in the form of a mucilage, in coughs, &c. Indian Pink Powder.—Dose, 12 or 15 grains, at bed- time, to children four or five years old, thrice a week, with 5 grains of jalap. In small doses it often removes the worm fever of children. Ipecacmnha--DQ%e, as an emetic, from 10 grains334 to half a drachm; with one grain to two of tartarized antimony. (See Emetics, &c. p. 316.) Ipecacuanha Wi7ie.—Dose, as an emetic, 2 drachms to an ounce, or more, according to the age and strength of the patient. To promote perspiration in fever, 10 drops to 40, every two or three hours, in any vehicle. Jalap.—Dose, 10 grains to half a drachm. Purgative: a little powder of ginger added to it, will prevent it from griping. Laudanum (Tincture of Opium.)—Dose, 10 grains to 40 or more; as an anodyne, and to alleviate fever and re- move spasms; usually given in cinnamon or mint water. Magnesia.—Dose, two or three drachms : laxative; more efficacious, particularly to children at the breast, when combined with rhubarb. JV/an«a.—'Dose, 2 or 3 drachms : proves mildly purga- tive, and will operate without griping. From its sweet taste, children may be prevailed upon to take it when other medicine is refused. Nitre.—Dose, 5 grains to io: diaphoretic and cooling in pain, &c., added to barley water in the proportion of 2 drachms to a quart: or, in repeated small doses. Ointment of Basilicon.—A good cleansing application to wounds of almost any description. Ointment of Spermaceti.—Cooling ; for dressing blis- ters; also a good application to the inflamed eyes of children. Opodeldoc.—Ball's Anodyne—(see quack medicines), useful in sprains, &c. Rhubarb.—Dose, half a drachm to 2 scruples: laxa- tive; and, one of the best purgatives in bilious complainta. (See Magnesia).335 ' Spermaceti.—In coughs and" hoarseness, given in con- junction with the mucilage of gum arabic and paregoric. Spirits of Hartshorn.—Used in fainting fits: a tea- spoonful in a glass of water removes heart-burn and lowness of spirits. Spirit of Lavender.—A tea-spoonful or two of this medicine in a glass of port wine, with fifteen drops of the spirits of hartshorn, revives the spirits, &c. Spirit of Sal Volatile.—Thfrsame. Sulphur.—Made into an electuary with honey, and a tea-spoonful taken often in autumnal colds, &c.: mixed with sulphur, cures the itch. Tamarinds.—Gently laxative, and given to children with this intention; also used as a vehicle for other me- dicines. Tartar Emetic.—See Emetics. (Page 316). Vitriol, While.—Used as an emetic when poisons have been swallowed by mistake : dose, 12 grains to 20; and repeated at the distance of half an hour, should the first doses not succeed. Ten grains of white vitriol, dissolved in 4 ounces of rain water, is a good lotion for slight inflam- mation of the eyes or skin, &c. A scruple of white vitriol, mixed with half an ounce of hog's lard, so as to form an ointment, is a useful applica- tion in the inflammation of the eyelids, to which old people are subject. The distilled waters, used as vehicles for other medicines, such as penni/rot/al,peppermint, cinnamon, dill, aniseed, &c. may be made of equal efficacy, by the addition of a drop of the essential oil of any of these articles to about an^ 336 ounce of spring water. For simple distilled water, water boiled, an)l decanted, and suffered to stand over nighr, will be found an excellent substitute, and equally free from the impurities of common water. FINIS. B. Bensley, Bolt CQurt, Fleet Street.Books published hy Sheru ood, Ji/mts, and Cff. DO]MESTIC ECONOMY, AGRICULTURE, AND RURAL AFFAIRS. 1. JENNINGS'S DOMESTIC CYCLOPiEDiA, be- ing a complete Code of Family Information. Just completed in IJ Parts, (wliicli may be liad by one or more at a time,) price 2s, 6d each, forming '2 large Volumes, Octavo, price ll. 14s. boards, an Original Work, entitled the FAMILY CYCLOPAEDIA, being a IVIanual of useful and necessary knowledge, alphabetically arranged; •comprising all the r«cent Inventions, Discoveries, and Improvements in Doiiifslic Economy, Agriculture, and Chemistry; the most ap- proved methods of curing Diseases, with the mode of Treatment in cases of Drowning, other Accidents, and Poisons ; observations on Diet and Regimen; a comprehensive account of the most striking objects in Natural History, Animate and Inanimate; and a detail of various processes in the Arts and Manufactures : also, a concise View of the Human Mind and the Passions, with their particular application to our Improvement in Education and Morals. By J. JENNINGS. This Original and Valnable Work is printed in double Columns, on good Paper, and contains I upwards of Fi/ieen Hundred Pages of Information, immediately (connected with the pursuits of Domestic Life. By means of 4Closc printing and a large page, it comprehends as much matter fas is usually found in six Volumes of an ordinary size, and cannot I fail, it is presumed, of being considered a most valuable addition to la Family Library. The Family Cyclopadia, by JAMES JENNINGS, con- ttains a large mass of information, on subjects connected with \thti domestic economy of life. In matters of science and art, <tbe author has made his selections from sources of the best taiithority. The original materials supplied by himself are credit- table to his observation, good sense, and benevolence. Almost every topic of general interest will he found in this comprehen- Mve and judicious compilation, treated in a clear and familiar nanner. As a book of daily reference in the common concerns ,t' life, it will be found to afford iniportant assistance, and its L^reat practical utility will, we have no doubt, ensure it a ready 'itroduction, and a favourable reception, in every intelligent ,;mily. In addition to the great heads of domestic economy,2 Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. agricultiiie, and cliemistry, this work points out the best modes of rtiring diseases, and obviating the effects of sudden accidents ; and presents also an outline of the mind and passions, witii a view to tlie improvement of morals and education.—i»/«n</i^u Ulaimz'tie, July, 1821. 2. A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL AGRICULTURE; including all the Modern Improvements and Discoveries, and the Result of all the Attention and Inquiry which have been IjestoweJ on this important Science during the last Fifty Years; the whole combining and explaining, fully and completely, the PniifciPLES and practicji of Modeiin Husbandry, in all its Branches and Relations. AVith an Appendix of the Laws relating to Agriculture, particularly of the Relative Rights of Landlord and Tenant, Forms of Leases, Setting out Tithes, &c. &c. By R. W. DICKSON, M. D. HONORARY MEMBER OF THE BOARD OP AGR/CULTURC, <&:C &C. In tWO large Volumes, in Quarto, illustrated with upwards of One Hundred Engravirtf^s, (Thirty of which are coloured from Nature,) representing improved Imple- ments, the various Grasses, and the principal Breeds of Sheep and Catfle, from Original Drawings. Originally published at six guineas; but the stock liaving passed into the hands of the present Proprietors, they have reduced its price to four guineas, thus rendering it the cheapest as well as most comprehensive work on the subject extant. This Work includes fwry Branch of the important Art to which it relates,particnUrly the best Methods of Planting Timber of every Description, and the improved Management of Live Stoclc, with a Description of Implements and Buildings; the Theory of Soils and Manures; the best Methods cf Inclosing, Embanting, Road-malting, Draining, Fallowirig, Irrigating, Paring and Burning; the improved Cultivation of Arable Lands, at d of all Kinds of Grain, Artificial Grasses, &c.; presenting the most useful and comprcheniive Body of Practical Information ever offered to the Public on the interesting Science of Agriculture ; a Science which is so intimately connected with the Welfare and Happiness of the BRITISH EMPIRE. Reliance is placed on the Support of Noblemen, Clergymen, Country Gentlemen, and intelli- gent Fai men, In this Undertaking, which is calculated to remove the Obstacles that have hitherto presented themjclves to the Introdu'.tlon of Agricultural Improvements. 3. The FARMER'S COMPANION, being a com- plete system of Modern Husbandry ; including the iati i-t Improve- ments and Discoveries, in Theory and Praclii-e. Extracted and Abridged from the above Work, by the same Ai thor. In two Volumes, loyalSvo. Second Edition, I'rice two Guineas, in boards. Tlie leading feature of excellence by which tliis work is distin- guished, is tliat minuteness of Piacticul Detail, which renders it singularly adapted to the purposes of Atiriculture. The whole scope of its contents has a constant and iiiiniediatc ronuexion with the daily pursuits of the Farmer, tlie Implements of Husbandry he employs', the Modes of Agriculture he adopts, and the systcui of Pasture and Feeding he pursues. These inultifatious topics are all treated with simplicity and clearness; so that ihe \\ ork presents an ample, but distinct display of every subject connected with tiie practical objects of a Farm. It is illustrated with upwards of One [Jundri'd Ei<pacings, representing; improved Implements for larmiug, vadous Breeds of Cattle, Sheep, &c.Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co, 4. AGRICULTURAL REPORTS OF GREAT BRI- TAIN, (irawn up under the immediate Sanction of Parliaraent, and published by Authority of tlie IJoaid of Agriculture. Sherwood anJ Co. beg leave most re.spectfully to submit to the Notice of the Nobility, Clergy, Gentry, and farmers of the United Kingdom, the following truly National and most important Work.—• It consists of New and Improved Editions of the County Surveys, and unites every Species of Information relative to the Stalisticul, Economical, Agricultural, and Commercial State of each County. Sixty Volumes, uniformly printed in Octavo, and illustrated with Maps and Plates, are already published, viz. ENGLISH AND WELCH REPORTS. ! Bedfordshire, by Mr. Batcbclor 15 o Berkshire, by Dr. Mavor .„ I8 O [ Buckiogham. by the Rev. St. John Priest 12 0 i Cambridgeshire, by the Rev. Mr. Coocb g O Cornwall, by Mr. Worgan ... IZ O t Chesbiie, by U. Holland, Esq. ... lo 6 1 Derbyshire, Vol. I. by Mr. Farey,sen. n O Vol. II. ditto _. IS O ■ I -, Vol. III. ditto _. 18 O I Devonshire, by C. Vancouver, Esq. ... 18 O I Doisetshire, by Mr. Stevenson ... „. I2 o I Durham, by Mr. Bailey ... lO 6 lEsex, 1 vols, by A. Ynung, Esq. ... 24 o (.Gloucestershire, by T. Kudge, B. D. ... g o lUaaipshire, by C. Vancouver, Esq. ... 16 O lUercfordshire, by J. Ouncumbe, A. M. ... 7 o HHertfordibire, by A. Young, Esq. -.80 IBantingdonsbire, by Mr. I'arkinson ... g O >Jer»cy . nd Guernsey, by T. Quayle, Esq. 10 6 (Kent, by Mr. Boys ... ... 8 O LLeic. and Rutland,by Pitt and Parkinson is O LLancasbire, by Dr. Dickson, revised and prepared for the press by .VIr. Stevenson, auUior of the Surrey Report „. 14 O Lincoln, by A.Young, Esq. Id Edition Middlesex, by J. Midleton, Esq. 2d Ed. Monmouthshire, by Mr. Hassell, of East Wood, Pembrokeshire ... ... NORTH WALES, by Walter Daviea, A.M. Norfolk, by A. Young, Esq. —, by Mr. Kent ... ... Northamptonshire, by W. Pitt, Esq. Northumberland, Cumberland, and West. moreland, by Messrs. Bailey, CuUey, and Prlngle Nottinghamshire, by Robert Lowe, Esq. Oxfbrdshire, by A. Young, Esq. Shropshire, by the Rev. J. Plymley, A. M. SOUTH WALES, by Walter D^vics.A.M. 2 vols. ... ,., „. Staffordshire, by Mr. Pitt Suffolk, by A. Young, Esq. „. Surrey, by Mr. Stevenson Sussex, by the Rev. A. Young Warwickshire, by Mr. Murray Worcestershire, by Mr. Pitt Wiltshire, by Mr. Davis Yorkshire, (East Riding), by Mr. Strickland O O 6 O O o o a o 5 o 12 O 9 O 24 s> 10 IS IS 8 10 9 12 SCOTCH REPORTS. AArgytechire, by Dr. J. Smith ^Berwickshire, by Mr. Kerr Q^aiihncss, by Capt. Henderson lydcsdale, by Mr. Naismitli mfrics, by Dr. Singer _ ut Lothian, by Mr. Somcrville alloway, by the Rev. S. Smith ^•brides, by J. Macdonald, A. M. iTCrness, by the Rev. Dr Robertson lardineshire, by .Mr. Robertson - 9 0 Nairn and Moray, by the Rev. Wm. Leslie 14 0 14 0 Peebles, by the Rev. C. Findlatcr 10 6 ... IS 0 Ross and Cromarty,by SirG.S. Mackenzie 9 0 - 7 0 Roxburgh and Selkirk, by the Rev. Dr. 18 0 Douglas ... ... . ... 9 0 ... (5 0 Sutherland, by Capt. Henderson 12 0 - 9 0 West Lothian, by Mr. Trotter 9 0 ... 21 0 Report of the Commiitce of the Board of 14 0 Agriculture, concerning the culture and ... 12 0 use of potatoes ... ... 7 6 Any of the Reports may be had sepurattly; and, it is presumed, revery Nobleman, Clergyman, Gentleman, anil Farmer, should be in Possession of the Survey of iiis own County, and of the adjoining Counties, as also of any other, which may contain that Species or' information most conducive to liis own Local Interests, Complete Sits o( the iJfjjoi7s arc recommended to tiie various HcnicuLTtiRAL Societies and Book Clubs, as forming an aggregate General Information, and point of Kefereiicc on all occasion.s.4 Books puhliahed by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 5. The NEW FARMER'S CALENDAR,or, Monthly Remeinbiancer of all Kinds of Country Business. By Johk Lawrence. Fifth Edition; with large Additions; in One Volume. Price l?s. boards. Also, by the same Author, A GENERAL TREATISE on CATTLE, the Ox, the Sheep, and the Swine, in One "Volume. Second Edition; with large Additions. Price I2s. boards. A PHILOSOPHICAL and PRACTICAL TREATISE on HORSES, and on the Moral Duties of Man towards the Brute Creation; in Two Volumes. Third Edition; with large Additions. Price ll. Is. boards. " Mr. Lawrence writes with spirit, good sense, and humanity; and we recommend his Work to the notice of our Readers."—MontWy Review. The MODERN LAND STEWARD, in which the Duties and Functions of Stewardship are considered and explained, with its several Relations to the Interests of the Landlord, Tenant, and the Public ; in One Volume. Price 10s. 6d. boards. " If the Author had not already recommended himself to the Public by his " New Farmer's Calendar," and other Works, the judicious observations and useful hints here offered would place him in the lif * of those Rural Counsellors who are capable of giving advice. His sentiments on general subjects, expand beyond the narrow boundaries of -^njlgar prejudice; and his good sense is forcibly recommended to us, by its acting in concert with a humane disposition." MontMj/ Ramew, The above Works comprehend a body of useful practical knowledge, relative to the Culture of the Sou,, Political Economy, Veterinary Medicine, and the Management of Live Stock. Complete in Five large Volumes, 8vo. Price 2l. 15s. 6d. in boai ds. 6. PRACTICALOBSERVATIONS on the BRITISH GRASSES, especially such as are best adapted to the laying down or improving of Meadows and Pastures; likewise an enumeration of the Britisii Grasses. By WILLIAM CURTIS, Author of the Flora Londinensis, Botanical Magazine, Lectures on Botany, &c. &c. Sixth Edition ; with considerable Additions. By John Lawrence, Author of the New Farmer's Calendar, &c. &c. To which is subjoined, a short Account of the Causes of the Diseases in Corn, called by Farmers the Blight, the Mildew, and the Rust. By Sir Joseph BankSj Bart. In 8vo. iilustrated witU coloured Plates. Price 9s, in boaids.Books published by Shertcood, Jonef, and Co. 5 7. The CODE OF AGRICULTURE; including Observations on Gardens, Orchards, Woods, and Planta- tions. By tlie Right Hon. Sir John Sinclair, Hart. Third Edition in one Large Vohime, 8vo. Price ^1 4s. in boards. This Third Edition is considerably improved by a number of Valuable Remarks, communicated to the Author by some of the most intelligent Farmers in England and Scotland. The Subjects particularly considered, are 1. The Preliminary Points which a Farmer ought to ascertain, before he undertakes to occupy any extent of Land. t. The IVIeans of Cultivation which are essential to ensure its saccess. 3. The various Modes of improving Land. 4. The various Modes of occupying Iiand. 5. The Means of improving a Country. ** sir Jobn Sinclair's' Code of Agriculture' is one of Use inoit valuable books of the year. In point of fact, it concentrates the knowledge amassed during the experience of a lung life, passed amidst the best opportunities of collecting information ; and exhibits the results in a form condensed with great logical acumen, of all the Labours and Publications of modern writers on Agriculture. It merits, therefore, a place in the library of every Gentleman and Farmer in the Country, and of every individual who has any turn for Agricultural pursuits."—Monttly Magatcine. 8. A SYSTEM of SHEEP GRAZING and MA- N.AGEMENT, as practised in Romney Marsh. By Daniel Price, of Appledore, Kent. In 4to. Illustrated with Plates, price 2l. 2s. in boards. 9. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on the Parturition of the COW, or the extraction of the Calf, and on the Diseases of Neat Cattle in genci-al; with the mo.'rt approved Methods of Treatment, and best Forms of Prescription, adapted to Veterinary Practice. By Edward Skellett, Profcs.sor of that part of the Vettrinaiy Art. In one large Volume, Octavo, price J8s. plain, or ll. 7s. with the Plates accurately coloured. Illustrated with thirteen highly-finished Engravings. 10. Tlie GRAZIER'S READY RECKONER, or a nsofiil Guide for Buying and Selling Cattle ; being a complete set of Tables, distinctly pointing out the Weight of Black Cattle, Sheep, and Swine, fioiu three to one hundred and thirty Stones, by measuremenl; with Directions, showing the particular parts where the ('attic are to be measured. By George Ren toy. Farmer. A new Edition, corrected. Price s!s. 6d, sewed.6 Books published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 11. The HORTICULTURAL REPOSITORY, con- taining Delineations of the best Varieties of the diffej ent Species of English Fruit; to whicii are added, the Blossoms and Leaves, in those instances in whicli they are considered necessary:—accom- panied with full Descriptions of their various Properties, Time of Ripening, and Directions for Planting them, so as to produce a longer Succession of Fruit; such being pointed out, as are par- ticularly calculated for open Walls, and for Forcing. IJy G. BROOKSiiAVlf, Author of the " Pomona Britannica." lUustrated by beautiful Coloured Plates, on which the Fruit ii represented in :tf natural size : the whole VTorlc comprehending nearly Two Hundred Specimens of the choicest Species. In two Volumes, royal 8vo. price 61. lOs. in boards, or may be had in Twenty-six Monthly Parts, by one or more at a time, at the original price of 5s. each. %* This Work is the result of several years' practical obser\'ation. Its obvious utility and general interest, will instantly occur to the reader ; it being a curious fact, that while an enlarged Uste for Botany has been directed, both scientifically and popularly, to every branch of its extensive province, this particular department has been most neglected, the proper selection of rruit Trees being generally very imptrfectly understood ; a deficiency which it is the object of the present work to supply. 12. A TREATISE on the Improved Culture of the STliAVVBERKY, RASPBERRY, GOOSEBERRY, and CUR- RANT, in which are pointed out the best Methods of obtaining ample Crops of those Fruits. To which are prefixed. Descriptions of the most esteemed Varieties. Iliustrcted by four coloured' Plates, representing the choicest Specimens of the Fruit, drawn iu its natural size. By Thomas Haynes. In 8vo. price lOs. iu boards. 13. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on Brewing the various sorts of Malt Liquor; with Examples of each Species, and the mode of using the Thermometer and Saccharometer : the whole forming a complete Guide in Brewing every Description of Ale and Beer. To which are added, General Instructions for making Malt, and Tables of the Net Duties of Excise on Strong and Table Beer, payable by Common Brewers in Town and Country. By Alex- ander MoRRiCE, Common Brewer. Sixth Edition; with the Laws, ("now first added,) relating to Brewers and Maltsters. By John Williams, Esq. Price lOs. 6d. boards. 14. The FAMILY DYER AND SCOURER, being a complete treatise on the Arts of Dying and Cleaning every article of Dress, Bed and Window Furniture, Silks, Bonnets, Feathers, &c., whether made of Flax, Silk, Cotton, Wool, or Hair; also Carpets, Counterpanes, and Hearth Rugs. Ensuring a saving of Eighty per cent. By William Tucker, late Dyer and Scourer in the Metropolis. Second Edition, price 4s. 6d. boards.Books pubtished by Sherwood, JoneSy and Co. 7> 1. BRITISH FIELD SPORTS > embracing Practical Instrnctions in Sliouting, Hunting, Coursing, Racing, Fishing, &c.; witli Observations on the Breaking and Training of Dogs and Horses; also, on the Management of Fowling Pieces, and all other Sporting Implements. By William Henry Scott, Author of tlie " Sportsman's Repository." In One large Volume, 8vo, Price ll. 18s. in boards; or on Royal Paper, with proof Impres- sions of the Plates, 31. 3s. •«« This Work is beautifully printed on fine wove Paper, hot-pressed, and illustrated with upwards of Fifty highly-finished Engravings;—Thirty-Four on ("opper, executed in the most characteristic Style of Excellence, by those emi- nent Artists, Scott,. Warren, Greig, Tookey, Davenport, Ranson, and Webb; from Paintings by Reinagle, Clennell, Elmer, and Barrenger; the remainder are cut on Wood, by Clennell, Thompson, Austin, and Bewick. That we have had several good and elaborate Treatises upon particular divi- sions of Field Sports is readily acknowledged; but we have had no Work of a portable nature, comprehending the whole of them. This inconvenience, however, is removed by the present Publication. The • Bkitisb Fiei/D Sports* IS divided into Sections, each forming a Subject which is treated separately and •systematically, with all the necessary Legal Information appertaining to it. The Author's object has been to present, in as compressed a-form as real utility would admit. Instructions in all the various Field Sports in Modern Praeticej thereby forming a Book of general Reference on the Subject, and including, in One Volume, what could not otherwise be obtained without purchasing many expensive ones. The means he has possessed for accomplishing so desirable '. purpose, he trusts, have enabled him to produce such a Work on the Subject )f Field Sports, as, in point of Paper, Printing, Illustration, and Embellish- lent, is not to be equalled in the English Language. " I; givCT Uf pleasure to observe the respectability of the Work, entitled " BRITISH FIELD PORTS." la this kingdom, the Sports of the Field arc highly characteristic and interesting. \» gentlemanly diversions, they have been pursued with an avidity as keen, and a taste as uni- crsal, as the relish of Nature's beauties. A corresponding value is set on them, and an appro -tate polish is added by lime and practice; the various minutie in the knowledge of which, -id the technical distribution of this knowlcdce, together with Facts, lastrucUons, and Anecdote* ..-m the b»»U of tWs valuable BubUcalion,"—J'a/ mtr'/ Journal.Books publislied by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 8 2. The SPORTSMAN'S REPOSITORY; com- prising a Series of highly-finished Engravings, rcpreseiiiing the House and the Dog in all their varieties; executed in the Line Manner, by John Scott, from original Paintin^is by Marshall, Reinagle, Gilpin, Stubbs, and Cooper : accompanied with a com- prehensive, historical, and systematic description of the different Species of each, their appropriate Uses, Management, and Im- provement ; interspersed with Anecdotes of the most celebrated Horses and Dogs, and tiieir Proprietors; also, a Variety of prac- tical Information on Training, and the Amusements of the Field. By the Author of British Field Sports." Beautifully printed in Quarto, and embellished with Forty highly-finished Copper-plate Engravings, and numerous Wood Cuts. Price 31. 3s. in boards. It may also be had in Six Parts. Price lOs 6d. each. 3. THOUGHTS on FOX and HARE HUNTING ^ in a Series of Letters to a Friend. By Peter Beckford, Esq. With numerous illustrative Notes by the Author. A new and elegant Edition, iu One Volume, 8vo. Price I4s. boards. %• The Publisbersbeg leave respectfully to recommend the preicnt Edition of Mr. Bectford's valuable Work, to the notice of Sporting Gentlemen. It will be found to surpau all prcteding Edition], in eleganu of paper, printing, and illustration. The Author's Notes, also, which have long been umitted, are here introduced, and render this Edition peculiarly desirable. 4. An ESSAY on HUNTING; comprising Hunting, Lawfulness, Benefits, Pleasure, Pastime, Game, Scent, Houndt^, The Horse, Huntsman, Sagacity, 6cc. &c. &c. Copied terhatim from the Original Edition, printed in the year 1733, and elegantly printed in 8vo. Price 78. boards; or, in 4to. 12s. VTe consider the SporUag World much indebted to those who luve caused the rc-printing of this Work; the style is excellent. Some of the Author's ideas may,since its first publication (i 733), have been controverted,or become obsolete, through the benefits^of modern experience; but good sense, combined with practical knowledge and a playful fancy, arc apparent in every sub- ject which the Author touches on; and we candidly express our belief, that few modern Volucics will afford the reader more pleasure.—£^rt/n; iUnfoxiiK. 5. SPORTING ANECDOTES, original and selected, (many of them concerning our late King); iiicludiug numerous Characteristic Portraits of Persons in every Walk of Life, who liave acquired notoriety from their Achievements on the Turf, atBooks published by Sherwood, Jones, and Co. 9 the Table, and in the Diversions of the Field : the whole forming a complete Delineation of the Sporting f^Vorld. By Pierce Eg an. Embellished with a characteristic Frontispiece, representing Eight Varieties of Sporting Amusements. Price 9s. boards, or I'^s. elegantly bonnd. 6. SCOTT'S SPORTSMAN'S POCKET-BOOK; THE SPORTSMAN'S CALENDAR; or, Monthly Remem- brancer of Field Diversions. By A\ . H. Scott, Antlior of* Bri- tish Field Sports.'' Elegantly printed in a neat pocket size, and hot-pressed. Price 5s. in boards. 7. SOMERVILLE'S celebrated Poem of the CHASE; to which is annexed, liis Poem of Field Sports ; with Memoirs of the Author, and an Essay on the Chase. By Edward Top- ham, Esq. Illustrated with Engravings, by Mr. Scott. Price 6s. in boards. 8. SONGS of THE CHASE; including some also, on RACING, SHOOTING, ANGLING, HAWKING, AR- CHERY, &c. Handsomely printed in foolscap 8vo. with appro- priate Embellishments. Second Edition. Price 9s. boards. 9. The SHOOTER'S COMPANION; or, Dlrec tions for the Breeding and Management of Setters and Pointers, and for the Treatment and Cnre of Diseases, to which all Dogs are liable, witii an Historical description of Winged Game. The Fowling-lPiece, considered particularly as it relates to the Use of Percussion Powder. The various methods of making Percussion Powder, and the best pointed out. Of Scent:—the Olfactory Organs anatomically explained; with the Reason why one Dog's Sense of Smell is superior to another's. Shooting illustrated ; and the Art of Shooting Flying exemplified, and clearly laid down. The Game Laws, and every information connected with the Use of the Fowlinji-Hiece. By T. B. Johnson. New and Improved Edition. Price 9s. iu boards, with Plates. Thlj i* » well written and well arranced production \ toRtainine much Interesting Inform, tion, not only to the profciicd Sportfman, but to thoie who may occaiionally tcek thii fascinatinc recreation. We may add, that It i» not the production of any ordinary Sport«man, but of •ne who can enjoy the pleasures of the Library as well a* thoK of Ibc Field, asd can wield » Pen *i well ai a FowUng.Piece,"—ii'f'O' C*r»nit/#.