WHAT DO WE EAT? FACTS FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF HOUSEKEEPERS. ** As a man thinks so is he," may well be changed into, as a man eats so is he. Upon the kind of food one partakes, its qualities, whether they are healthful and invigorating, or deleterious and, in consequence, weakening, depends the health and even the life of the individual. A large portion of the food we eat is bread, which has been called the " staff of life." When made of right ingredients in proper proportions, it is all that the popular appellation claims for it. But when, as is often the case, it is innocently adulterated with in- jurious substances, it becomes a fruitful source of disease and death. Of all the things employed in our kitchens, probably the various kinds of baking powder containing alum are the worst. A pure cream of tartar baking powder is every way desirable and most healthful ; but cream of tartar represents value, and the chief object of the use of alum is to provide a much cheaper article. But this gain in the use of alum is dearly purchased by the harmful product resulting therefrom, as it renders the material made with it well nigh indigestible. Alum is an astringent, producing indigestion, griping, constipation and kindred troubles, resulting from irritation of the mucous membrane. Dyspepsia, with all its horrors, is the legacy which a constant use of food with alum in it, bequeaths. The most eminent chemists of Europe and America, as one man, condemn th^ use of alum in articles of food as a prolific cause of physical de- rangement and disease. Its use in bread-making is forbidden by law in England, France and Germany. Official reports in this country condemn alum in any form as an adulteration for articles, of food, and public opinion has so far been aroused that a bill to prohibit its use in the manufacture of baking powders has been introduced in the legislature, and none too soon, for it is a startling fact that a large proportion of the baking, powders sold loose or in bulk, and many of the powders in cans, are made with alum. In striking contrast with the effects of alum-made materials, are those of the same articles raised by means of cream of tartar baking powder. Pure grape cream of tartar baking powder has no equal as a preparation for making the most delicious and healthful biscuits, cake, pastry, pud- dings, etc., and it is with great pleasure we assure our readers that we know Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, manufactured at Albany, N. Y., sold only in quarter, half, and one pound tin cans, is perfectly pure and wholesome. It has long been well and favorably known, and every cook who gives it a trial will use no other kind. The most exhaustive chemical analyses of the ablest scientific men in various parts of the country, as well as the Brooklyn Board of Health in their recent investigation on this subject, have corroborated the fact that Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder is made of the purest grape cream of tartar, is entirely free from adulteration of any kind, and is a most healthful and desirable article.—TroyCN. Y.) Times.