THOMAS M/WTINq IChurch Furnisher. « Prinlseller, Lii8.vicTORiAsrs.»(j^ MDXMII TEXN^^sSSil - ^^^981 iiV: 6 I<1-^ «- At. t^. «_-.!_ i J. A \ y>*-' ^ A-^ j ^ ^ /*~~ * *' /?''i .* y^^jr>»» ^ i^A% /a. i7- ^ ^ A «- ^ "T^ h^t. / ■l^ dT'’^ A A A- Y f /v ' * ^ f fi~i cr-)r ^ y ^ T/ / 7 ^ * ! ^ I ^r^Cc t. Ax- ^ /tZ /(^sr%A'~~ i v< ^-<r^ —.X / w'' /yX.-A-^'l Aa^J / // 3^ AS2/^ ^ aAAj x\y-^/_c.^ )i/l\^ ^ -CAc IAaS-'i-c .aXAc-a // -f'. /^* 4,4c: ?^- A-^f 7^ -< ^ f^A /^f Xa^ aACaa aAA'A^/a ,n-^ ^ /La-a AJ-mr^ y' /fc> AA^C.^ ji^ /s /Pi^ f ■ Cr^/iU X i>r »’X. A/J /La /f!^:> >/- /?. , ^ ^ //'.'^^ A*j/2f-l / ^ // * * aLa^. J'r^Ayf-xe^. a p-t.-ry^ y. Ahl^ *Z^t./df ^x-Wa/^ A-T:ryt^ J '** At ^ //. XT'*: YT ^ *2-C aT^ ~/) i. •2-C-c^^ /C X. -t * ■ // ^ A/a /\ ht Ay ) 4^* ^lU f~C^ / -2 ^ A A-f f / 7T iAid.K - // A AZl i lx. C-Ct. L- P /A /, ^ rA'i'-M-i y'Pf ^ OF SOME OF THE FIRST GENERAL LAWS MEDICINE AND SURGERY. \ I \ Price Our. Shilling.PRINTKD BV C. AULARD, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.OF SOME OF THE FIRST GENERAL LAWS OR FUNDAMENTAL DOCTRINES MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ADORESSEO TO STUDENTS AND JUNIOR PRACTITIONERS. BT T. WILKINSON KING, LECTURER ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, AND ON PATHOLOGY, AT GUY'S nOSPI TAL. LONDON: .lOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES S^I’REEI', SOHO, 1840.r iANALYSIS. Preface. ...... Diagrams. . . . . . . The present state of the science of medicine and of the profession. What are the essential elements of medical science on M'hich laws are founded.—Mode of study. . . . . Fundamental principle. . . . . Health consists in the balance of the functions,—salutary oscilla- tions, and mutual compensations—periodic functions. Disease is disturbed balance;—in the form of local affections, or combined, or general. . . . . . Diseases have a definite course. And mostly tend to spontaneous recovery. Variability a peculiar character. 7 9 11 12 13 14 19 25 26 28IPREFACE. The following opinions are but rudely stated, yet should they prove intelligible and just, they must, I think, be regarded truly as essential parts of legitimate or rational medicine. The only extenuation I can offer for faultiness of style or arrangement must be the simple account of my habit of study. These reflections have been more or less before me, and variously weighed for years; but whenever any one has seemed to find its due place and force (com- paratively and for the time), my disinclination to alter or adorn it has been equal to my desire to pass on to some adjacent consideration; and I have pursued these things as much from taste as from necessity or for approbation. These views may, I hope, be allowed to stand as complete in themselves; they are only concluded Avhere8 I laws of more limited extent seem to commenee. The more extensive of the rules of therapeutics are here pretty plainly indicated, but none of them have appeared to me to be comparable in scope with the few physiological and pathological laws which I have endeavoured to explain. The merit of originality is perhaps never rightly estimated, and the praise of it is little worth seeking. There may be abundant authority for the statements, and even example for the plan here pursued. I do not know, however, where they are to be found; and yet I can almost hope that some may follow these opinions to the end without dissent, for I am not conscious of Avandering far from a clear and practicable track.10 {Right Hearts.) Pulmonary Circulation. {Left Hearts.') 'UOl}Ppi3U.lJ J0.19U9Q The above plans of the circulation are introduced only as notes; in winch form also, and with reference to these diagrams, an additional illustration will be found to most of the positions successively main- tained in these pages. These may be said to explain physical states; the majority of the examples in the text are connected with humoral changes; but it will be seen that the vital and nervous doctrines are not discarded.OF SOME GENERAL LAWS, &u. It cannot be doubted that the present merits of medical science are very considerable. The shame of our pro- fession is, however, that but a few of its members are well instructed; whilst a still more lasting evil, I fear, depends on the fact that too many of our authors and teachers are one-sided and prejudiced in their views. It can scarcely be an error to impute diseases in some way to the nervous system, or the vascular; to the stomach, the liver, the ileum, or the colon; to the humours, or the solids; to malaria, contagion, or cold; and yet how justly do the especial advocates of any one of the docti’ines here referred to despise the mass of opposite teachers. The same kind and degree of blame attaches to all the exclusive disciples of experience, of reason, of literature, of observation, of experiment, of statistics, and the like. Is it not possible fairly to respect that which is good in all ? Surely it is not only the young who may hope to avoid the errors of partiality. I am well assured of my incompetence to cuniplele the task before me, but I invite the reader the more earnestly12 to devote himself to a patient and unprejudiced survey of true medicine, and I have some hope that these pages may assist him. The elements or rudimentary sciences of our profession sometimes form a very lengthened catalogue. The first essential seems to be a knowledge of the materials of the body, and their arrangements and uses. The second indispensable attainment is an acquaintance with the rise, progress, and termination of morbid actions. The next all-important knowledge is that of remedial agents. The rational principles or laws of medical science must be formed from these combined elements, based upon these rudiments. The course, however, which I deem most natural and satisfactory to the learner is this : To learn together the form, uses, and disorders of any one part, and of others in succession. If any should object to this plan, my reply would be, let the learner try it, and, unless oppressed by needless impediments, I feel confident he will experience interest, and facility, and success, which the routine of school discipline is too much devoid of.* This however is the plan of the schools, although the pupil does not generally commence it until he is about to leave,—and perhaps he never does. But, whether in the wide survey, or in the detailed study, it must ever happen that available medical knowledge is attained in this way, for it is then anatomy leads to johysiology, which is * How satisfactory would it be at once to be introduced to tlie structure of the valve between the cavities of the left heart, a dis- sected series, and one living example of its disorders! Or, for a first lesson, to examine the wind-pipe along with instances of its diseases!13 partly physical, partly chemical and electrical, and in part also metaphysical. The outward signs of health are here involved, and with them we have to consider all external Influences, and then the first disturbances of health with their various I’esults. The outward evidences of these last during life enforce attention, and after death the morbid anatomy of the interior assists the explanation. Finally, the mature knowledge of the means of relieving disorders follows out of the knowledge of the functions in health and disease, and the consideration of them in dependence on every external agency, whether morbific or sanative. Is it not in the highest degree plain and satis- factory amongst the laws of remedies, that morbid dis- turbing causes are to be obviated j and that over-acting parts are not to be excited, but the contrary;—that their excess of stimulus is to be removed, and that the inert or the natural may be stimulated in order to relieve them? And again, that natural processes must be left unembarrassed? What is there more than this in me- dicine ? What can render these views clear, but a sound physiology and pathology ? Ihe fundamental principle—the initiatory law (so to speak) of medicine—declares the truths or involves the facts: 1st, That licalth consists in a certain uatiu’al state, and moderated action of the several parts of the animal frame;14 2d, That disease forms a perceptible departure from the healthful state; and 3d, That remedies have a power of modifying the dis- turbance or assisting the restoration. SECTION A. First, we may proceed to reflect a little more at length on the first proposition, that which relates to health. A certain gentleness and regularity of the animal func- tions are the characters of health; and, for the sake of a theoretical illustration, we may venture to admit the idea of a perfect equiponderance of tne whole at a given time. We may suppose that at a certain period the digestive, circulatory, secerning, locomotive, sensitive, and reflecting organs may be observed carrying on their functions with a pretty equable activity. We must remember, however, that the operations are incessantly susceptible of marked and varying oscillations,—degrees of exaltation and depres- sion, and even, perhaps, of temporary suspension within the limits of the healthful state. The theory of the natural balance of the animal functions would of course appear most unsatisfactory without a proper attention to the principle of fluctuation, and especially when referring to those almost supplementary actions which seem to be developed at distant inters'^als, as, for example, the gene- rative. And further, the theory requires that we should pointedly include the idea of compensatory actions; that we should indeed be well aware, that the oscillation of some one function towards its extreme of natural activity will be continually found supplying the place of another function, which is fluctuating in an opposite direction;15 and that the healthy preponderance of one action in the system will frequently demand a correlative activity in others, and at another time require the compensating decline of some functions.* The explanation of a compensating office seems indis- pensable when a great function declines, suddenly perhaps, and another is consequently excited and supplies its place; as the secretion of miUc on the contraction of the uterus, which is remarkable in this, that a fresh outlet is esta- blished for the mother, and a different nourishment for the infant. Again, when under circumstances of external cold the cutaneous functions are diminished or suppressed, the activity of internal organs is moderately accelerated, or, vice versa, the copious secretions of the surface lead to diminished eliminations from within. These effects appear for the most part salutary, and often necessary. It must be perfectly evident that some conditions of the system naturally call for great and others for slighter exertions of counterpoising parts; and thus we find a necessity established for very free limits to the salutary oscillations of functions. An abundance of fluid being poured into the stomach and vascular apparatus, is plainly connected with the w'ant of a free circulation and more abundant excretory actions, as by the kidneys. In like * J’lms, with reference to the diagrcams: 1st. The circulation may be easy and uniform, or excited, and still equal. 2dly. Oscillations may arise in any part, and the eompensating states be set up con- secutively. Tlie pulmonary circulation being impeded, accumulation takes place towards the right heart. A freer respiration relieves this. So repletion in the right heart induces full aeration, and then gra- dually the left heart and general circulation participate in the exalted activity.16 manner the want of food, or delay in the digestive opera- tions, both demands and induces a very material retardation in the circulatoiy and secretory actions; and thus a con- fined diet is, to a certain extent, compensated for by more gradual secerning processes, as v^ell as probably by a more complete digestion. The excessive diet of some persons is a sufficient comment upon the powers by which compensatory action or a salutary balance of the functions is maintained; but I have been led to regard as most striking those instances in which an organ, or a function, is occasionally wanting, whether by primitive deficiency, suspended development, or removal, as where a kidney* is deficient, or a testis, or the thyroid gland (an assimi- lative organ), or as in the amenorrhoea emansionis, or in cases of defective limbs. Periodic functions. With respect to those functions which seem to be repeated after greater or less intervals, and which may almost be regarded as occasional or pe- riodical, I am disposed to make but little distinction. Alternations of rest and action seem to belong to all the animal organs. The actions of the heart and capillary vessels are not perceptibly different in this respect. And although the functions are affected by seasons of the * An absent kidney is scarcely uncommon, and 1 have seen several instances, or rather 1 have found the little cellular rudiment of a kidney with a pelvis, hut imperforate ureter. In these cases the opposite organ has not appeared to me very large or coarse in texture, and more than once the intestinal follicles were seen most peculiarly hypertrophied and elongated. Exccj)ting in the instance of one child, I have only found the single kidney in adults.17 year, the periods of the day, the successions of meals, the processes of the mind, and the motions of the ndll, there is evidence enough that a certain equipoise of the func- tions is the character of health, and that the sanatory fluctuation is at once a natural result of external agency and mutual cori’espondence, and a providential resource to obviate more sudden or serious disturbances; in truth, it is an act of compensation. These principles w'ill be further developed, and their application elucidated by the consideration of diseases of particular organs. The oscillations of the functions and their mutual acts of compensation, duly considered, only serve to explain more fully what may be called theoretically the balance of health; and they may be employed to illustrate the commencement of disease. These natural fluctuations again are continually made available, during the progress of diseases, to obtain a compensatory action, on the part of a healthy organ, which becomes opposed to the too great or too little activity of that which is diseased; as, for example, when one kidney is hastily obstructed, the other becomes hypertrophic. The remedial bearing of these rules is obvious; but we must defer the consideration of this part of the subject. We have remarked upon the balance of health, the natural fluctuations and mutual compensations of the functions, and have introduced partial examples, which, it will be observed, are drawn almost exclusively from the humoral changes produced in the body; but instances might have been found in abundance among the other actions, had not the first named seemed most applicable to the subject before us. All organs, Ijy exercise, obtain an increased circulation and nutrition, and consequently (and in this way) effect a greater consumption or deteri- 218 oration of the materials circulated, so that the humoral changes depend on all the organs of the body, though in different degrees. The influence of the nervous system, in this respect, is probably not great, whilst in other points of view its functions are numerous and varied, and their correlation (with each other and with every other) is of the greatest importance, whether we regard them as an isolated series or in connexion with the offices of other parts. When w^e consider that all parts supplied wdth nerves must be the sources of sensation, or the subjects of a stimulus arising in a contrary direction (and perhaps both),—when we regard the influence of the senses and other functions on the mind, and the affections of many functions produced by the mind,—we must admit some notion of a natural mean appropriated (in health) to all these mutually dependent parts. We can perceive some- thing of their necessary fluctuation and compensating influences; and we may understand how it is that an excessive oscillation, whether of decline or acceleration, amounts to disease. We may hereafter find it neither tedious nor difficult to exemplify the mutual dependence of the whole animal functions. In an appropriate place, in relation to indi- vidual diseases, it will be highly serviceable to trace, side by side with selected facts, these fluctuations of action in continued though varied degrees of correspondence. For instance, in a plethoric disorder we should have to examine the forces of the circulation and cerebral system as affecting- each other, and as dependent on digestion, and then to observe the individual or combined influence of all these upon the muscular system, or on the excretory functions: perhaps to find the free exercise of the locomotive .apparatus giving rise to a cojjious elimination from the blood of that19 urea, the nitrogen of which prevails so abundantly in muscular fibre, and most surely of many other matters. Our immediate object precludes such a digression; but it may be observed that the elucidation of a theoretical principle does not require this of us. It is only necessary to remember that Avhen distinct facts establish a view, a more general observation may restrict, but cannot repu- diate it, may assist to extend and define, but cannot abolish it. These observations seem indispensable, espe- cially for those who are already biassed to a single set of opinions. Every doctrine must stand or fall by itself. Doctrines Avhich are erroneous must clash. Those which are just will fairly coincide, and those Avhich are growing rightly will illustrate and corroborate each other. SECTION B. We may next take up the consideration of the second proposition of our fundamental principle, which relates to disease. When the activity or indolence of an organ passes beyond the salutary bounds already adverted to, this is disease; and we find that unless its functions return speedily to their due proportions, a manifest disturbance arises in other functions, in order, as we may suppose, to adjust the balance of actions, or make a certain approach to that balance, without which the functions successively fail and life ceases. Thus Ave have arrived at a definition of disease—a definition Avhich is indeed genei’al, but which is equally applicable to every kind of morbid process, and one which seems particidaidy available for the objects of our present procedure. We may justly determine that,20 ivlien an organ is excited or impeded in the exercise of its offices beyond the natural degree, it is in a state of disease although such may at first be actually imperceptible. It is for the most part, however, the effect of one or more deranged functions on the system at large, which is so apparent to us and which we agree to call disease. It is scarcely perhaps necessary to observe that the pi’imai’y object of study is disordered function, whether in connexion with or independent of perceptible disorganiza- tions We may avail ourselves of all discoverable morbid appearances in actions, products, or tissues, in order to derive a clear apprehension of a disorder, its nature, degree, and correlative influence ; and this will ensure a right perception of disordered functions, but it must be always indispensable carefully to distinguish between a settled disorganization and a progressing disease. There is no mere refinement of reason in this view : it is only valuable so far as it is practicable, as we may see hereafter. The difference between an incipient ulcer of the cornea and an old opacity is of the same kind as that between a recent changeable stricture and one which is old and permanent. From the first fundamental law already explained, as involving the healthy balance, disturbed yet amenable, more or less, to remedies; and after a general definition of disease, we come to observe that the disturbance may commence in almost any part, and that it may continue very partial. Thus we obtain a division or series of disorders, whether acute or chronic, common or specific, of the least complex kind. Local disturbance then, disorder or disease, seems to me to express cpiite naturally a second laAV (in our Second21 proposition). Patience will, I think, find nothing to precede, and everything appears rationally to follow this arrangement. Watching the rise, studying the causes, and attending the progress of simple derangements (and the more simple the better), will be found in the foremost degree profitable. The existence of complex or combined diseases will require no proof. As we saw the efforts of health to maintain an equiponderance of the functions, and found the compensatory actions liable to become inefficient, so we shall find, that when one function fails by disease, others are likely to become oppressed and overwhelmed, and even many in succession, until the disturbance, if not fatal, becomes general: for beyond the investigation of the complex or combined local affections we shall have to study the most general disturbances of the functions whether fatal or not. Complex diseases will express an ulterior law, and again general diseases another. These divisions of diseases are peculiarly adapted for observation and far from being unnatural, although individual cases will only afford us partial illustrations of the main series.* Complicated and general diseases should come next to be examined, but we must first consider the local a little more at length. * When a poor regimen induces weakness and dilatation of the left heart, we have a comparatively simple disease; but with a consequent accumulation in the pulmonary circulation and defect in tlie general, we see examples of increasing complexity. Where the general circulation terminates in the right heart, a tumour of very simple structure may gradually produce obstruction, (lie. aeration of blood and its general transmission slowly decline, and thus finally some vital organ is oveiiurned.22 PLANS OF THE ANIMAL FUNCTIONS, Betwienull andcvery two of which some sort of equipomkrance isnecessuty. NERVOUS FUNCTIONS, MOTION, &C. ASSIMILATION. NUTRITIONS. EXCRETIONS. CIRCULATIONS. For tlie growth and nutrition of ( Food, Ingesta. j Fluids, Air, &c. IBone, Joints, Muscles, Nerves, &c. Parenchyma, Membrane, Tubes, &c. Producing deterioration and loss, requiring renewal and elimination. Effects increased by exercise or use, and vice versft. c By skin, mucous membranes, Egesta. lungs, liver, pancreas, kidneys, C genital organs, &c. CIRCULATORY BALANCE. ' The Blood. Absorbent system—the "a f Veins and the right heart, glands and other organs / I Left heart and arteries, of perfective assimila- r "x Pulmonary and general tion: thymus, thyroid, I / capillaries, spleen, liver, &c. ^ BALANCE OF THE NERVOUS CIRCULATION. Perception. Reaction. Voluntary, and involuntary systems, communicating Organs of sense, Nerves of conduction. Centres of appreciation or sense. Nerves of volition, Organs of motion, &c. l.ocal disease may commence in any one function of the body.23 In the summer of 1839, I made the acquaintance of Dr. Jennings, senior, a Professor of Medicine in Baltimore, and had the advantage of an exposition from him, which, if I did not fully admit, I did not fail to regard with great interest. This was a view of general pathology, in relation to the nervous system, and as the Doctor was well informed, and both keen and energetic, my impression was, that the hypothesis must often have served him most happily in practice. I certainly think the account deserving of general attention, yet I shall make no pretension to accuracy in the relation (from memory), or in defining its value. The first thing assumed was a given and appropriate quantity of the matter of innervation (nervous fluid or the like), circulating naturally in various parts of the system; and in health pretty equally distributed, but liable, with disease, to perversion or irregular deter- mination. A great degree of importance was attached to the accumulation of the fluid, and to its subsequent local overflow (if I may so express it), as when a person is said to take cold, and the disorder terminates in a catarrh. Fevers were regarded as the effects also of undue accumulations of innervation, and phlegmasinc as the localization of the wandering fire, (if I am not mis- taken.) Much stress was laid upon the apparent fact, that the weakest part is most obnoxious to the inundation. Metastasis w^as thought to depend on the accidental or medical repulsion, and a fresh localization (as of neces- sity) ; and relapses were imputed to still retained accumulations, or renewed causes of retention. The24 Doctor pointedly referred all ague to alternations of temperature, or rather he excluded the idea of miasm. The practical inferences from the preceding view were characterized by promptitude and rather severe efficiency, which seemed to me to demand all the sagacity and experience of one like Dr. Jennings to render them safe. Venesection was esteemed a definite power to lessen the excessive matter of innervation. Counter-irritants were valued, according to their names, as derivatives, and all evacuants as partaking of the two preceding agencies. The simplicity of the Doctor’s view, which he took some hours to illustrate, its correspondence to other (different) views wffiich I had long entertained, and the fact that I was in manner sensible of the want of good general views of the pathology of the nervous system,—all concurred to make me listen to the exposition with much pleasure. I have already shown the propriety of looking to all parts of the frame; and it need not be said how easy it is to carry a theory too far. I do not recommend single views; and my opinion of the present will be best gathered from my account of others. With questions of originality, I have nothing to do. The foi’egoing cannot pretend to be even a sketch, but it may point to the nervous balance as fully worthy of consideration. In the preceding plan every simple disease will find its place, and I desire particulai'ly to give the preference to no one series. The student will place that foremost which he first understands, but let bim beware of studying any sets exclusively ! It Is needless to select any cxcmi)lifi-25 cation, and it might seem inconsistent.* Avoiding this partiality, then, I pass on to a third law, the most valuable perhaps in the history of diseases, and second to none in the study of remedies. Thirdly, The course of disease is definite, and precisely proportioned to the cause, that is, with proper regard to the state of the individual affected—his particular consti- tution and susceptibilities. Hence all diseases have their proper names and characters (diagnosis and prognosis). Some may be casually combined, one may subside and another arise, but they are never converted. Each one follows its own course. An incision, a bruise, a fever, an inflammation, a strumous or malignant action, poison- ing, or lightning, never fails in its proper phenomena, although the consequences of each must vary in degree and duration, according to the severity of the cause, the parts affected, the reparative efforts, the remedies applied, or the disturbances that may be interposed. There is a state of disease whieh I do not know whether to define as health or disorganization; it is in some senses tantamount to both; I mean that unnatural state of activity or indolence of an organ (as the skin) which, by an extreme (healthy?) effort on the part of other organs, is mainly compensated for, even permanently, without material disturbanee of the body generally. Such things almost * The reader may, without reference to the diagrams, consider the di'cct of impediment in any one point of the circulation; as (ho ti'ansicnt fulness of the right heart, by tlie influence of muscles on the general circulation, or tlie sudden diflicultics of a ruptured valve in the artery distributing the blood from the left heart.26 belong to increasing years, but they are just equal to the loss of one horse from a team : the rest may do the work with greater exhaustion, but besides this they could not be equal to a certain amount of difficulty, which the whole entire might have overcome. But the most interesting and available part of this law consists in this, Fourthly, That there is in most diseases (if not in all) a positive tendency to decline, as it were, an active effort to subside, supposing the morbid excitement removed. The onset of a fever, as the falling of a mountain, may be fatal at once ; and the course of a fever or starvation seems at first without palliation, but the actions of every moment are mingled with efforts tending to restore the healthful balance. And do not the relapses of fevers and inflammations, and of numerous slow, protracted disorders testify abundant efforts towards restoration ? What I have already advanced relative to the condition of health, its correlative functions, fluctuating, compensatory, and balancing operations should render this statement plain and conclusive. The modes or means by which the subsidence is brought about are too intricate and various to explain here; such as the following will, however, not be denied. In a common hemorrhage, the functions almost fail, and with them the forces of the circulation: thus the bleeding orifice is left to contract. It is the same in a simple diarrhoea, the cause being only transitory and not I’epeated.* Although I have employed the instance of * As a I’urtlier illustration, 1 venture to introduce a merely pliy- biological train of events. Excessive repletion induces successively27 hemorrhage to illustrate that of diarrhcea, it is not my intention to speak of a wound as a disease : this is a disorganization. If there is anything about it of the charaeter of disease (as a process), it is the reparative changes which are, however, not morbid, for these tend to decline the moment the local excitement is obviated. These remarks apply to all the morbid changes which surround a settled lesion, an aneurism, a foreign body, or a new growth. The latter is mostly to be regarded just as any other part of the body; sometimes it declines because its stimulus and nutrition fail through other correlating actions, at other times it grows for manifestly opposite reasons. The phthisical patient is perfectly right when he says I am much better this week; and morbid anatomy proves that such cases do recover, as well as that others are repeatedly repairing. He says, I have taken cold again, my expectoration is returned; and he says truly. He has gradually become extremely susceptible of dis- turbance ; the counterbalancing organs have become obstinately inert, and his physician has not learnt to help him rightly. Let us patiently endeavour to find out the full extent of this last law, how nearly it may be universal. Let it not be idly imagined to be visionary because it does not seem universal; how remarkably does it apply to numerous activity in tlic right heart, the lungs, the left heart, and its distribution of blood, with the resulting excretions, &c. Finally, a subsidence of these functions may be traced in a similar order. Thus it may happen in diseases; and thus we see that the restorative actions arc physiological. Ilut we do not see where these actions cease before death occurs.28 local diseases! all that can be said against it is, that the time must come in every man’s life when after innumerable injuries the law seems to fail. The exceptions may be estimated as one to a thousand. Hence from the simple disturbance, other functions successively become affected, 'fhe explanation of the exception is this: The power or repetition, or persistence of the morbid causes is finally overwhelming, or the feebleness of the individual body or function I’enders it assailable fatally by the slightest disturbing eauses. It is true that a disease may advance even to a fatal termination, without any very marked sign of mitigation, and yet in a similar case a venesection may give loose to a steady train of convaleseent actions, or perhaps some unseen cause or unexpected change does this. Who has not seen or heard of the magic of calomel ? Every vital action is in a sense healthful, however great the morbid oppression, and even if death has invaded half the body; but I do not desire to overstrain the rule or to maintain that it is universal. Of course, by disease it is not here intended to in- clude disorganization: such as dead matter, a contracted passage, an indurated, hypertrophied, or wasted organ; and yet most of these cases as they are found in life are not wholly beyond the influence of the rule here maintained. Fifthly. That a great number of diseases are in their essential character variable is not to be denied. Indeed, 1 attach more importance to this fact than to any con- clusion I ever arrived at in the study of medicine. There will be no reason to divide the important distinction of29 variable diseases fi'om that law (third), which declares the course of disease to be invariable, and always in exact proportion to the cause and constitution, if it shall be shown that variable diseases are equally definite, but depend only on variable causes; that they consist of a succession of diseases,—many repetitions of a disease. The truth of the law, that the course of disease is definite, &c., I suppose to be universal; the truth of the fourth—diseases tend to decline, &c., may possibly be no less so. Both these rules, however, need the illustration which is to be derived from the exposition of the fifth, for which I must premise that it is not intended to explain actual exceptions to the pre- ceding laws, but that it forms in fact a separate though less general rule. Were it not, however, for the sake of the precision afforded by separate consideration, I should have been disposed to state my view of the last three laws col- lectively : thus, various causes and conditions of the frame render the progress of many disorders irregular, and here as well as in uninterrupted recoveries, w'e observe the natural efforts tending to restoration; and in all these cases, and in every accession or repetition of disease, there is a degree of uniformity fixed and certain, with a due regard to the excitants and the recipient, as far at least as our knowledge of causes and constitution can justify any assumption at all. I now for the present take my leave of this subject and of my reader, not without an interest in the comment he may make, although there is but one point on which 1 might wish to reply. If he should ask,, what is the use of30 all this ? I would refer him to the analysis at the head of the present chapter, for it seems to me impossible for any one fully to admit the truth of these positions, without the conviction that they must serve to indicate and establish the most just views of the application of remedies, the rules of habit, and the obviation of mischievous causes. I-niNTRD IIY C. AVI.AIIU) HAIlTIIOl.OM KU’ CI.OSK.O N DISORDERS WHICH ARE VARIABLE, AND ON THE PRACTICAL INFERENCES WHICH ARE DEDUCIBLE FROM THE CHARACTER OF CHANGEABLENESS. BY T. WILKINSON KING. / PUBLISHED IN 'J’HE GUY’S HOSPITAL REPORTS, No. Nl.To establish accurate notions of a morbid condition, and of the best means of treating it, are amongst the highest kinds of service which the science of medicine can require; and the more extensively the notion may apply—the more gene- rally a rule may serve—the more its elucidation is to be desired. The following attempt to approach such a principle of knowledge is brought forward without any pretence of original research ; for it consists very principally of the de- tails of general and settled experience. It forms an essay in the true sense, and involves a great variety of the most com- mon affections. In the progress of this endeavour, many difficulties have arisen; and the fear of attempting too much (as well of the imputation) has been before my eyes: but I am encouraged to hope that the reader will at least find his labour somewhat repaid by the varied facts and experiences thus presented in a connected order. I am tempted further to hope that my efforts may concur with the rising tendency and growing wants of Medical Science. Having, in another place*, at- tempted to set in order the most general fundamentals of our profession, the present reflections are designed to stand as a rational continuation and additional illustration of those principles, and also as an independent and unconnected doctrine, to be admitted or rejected by itself. With the [)rospect of being able to advance like views of a series of * “ Some First General Laws or Fundamental Doctrines of Medicine and Surgery,” &c. London, \M<A.4 Mr. Kiny on Disorders which are Variable, secondary laws, I anticipate increasing evidence of the just- ness of the whole; although I am very sensible that more able and devoted minds may readily surpass these too feeble and cursory expositions. A very little attention will suffice to discover, that there is a considerable number of affections in which Variability is a marked character;—and these, as a class, appear to me to deserve especial attention in a practical point of view. Many variable diseases are called chronic, but without sufficient grounds: and since many variable diseases are acute, and many chronic diseases may not be variable, I shall not anticipate any material objection to the simple term of distinction which I have adopted, without much regard for authority. The term scarcely seems to need a definition. Almost all tliat is vexatious to the practitioner, in disease not neces- sarily fatal, points to its meaning. Sometimes better, and then worse;—now even quite well, but relapsing to-morrow ; —restored more or less gradually—relapsing more or less sud- denly ;—such is variable disease : and when all its forms are considered, with some reference to causes, and the remedial indications which the knowlege of them demands, I trust the propriety, and indeed necessity, of discriminating the whole series will be evident. Those who have attended to the many seemingly slowly progressive forms of strumous disease, whether in the eye, the knee, the chest, or elsewhere, will, I think, be ready to admit the one defined idea of variable disease; which, how- ever, a few remarks may serve to strengthen and enlarge. The expression “ chronic disease" appears too general, and indeed indefinite, in the common acceptation. Perhaps it is already declining in use; and I think it is certain, that most diseases which have been called chronic, consist of more or less acute relapses, with pretty gradual periods of recovery; which, however, are not always or necessarily tardy:—for this, observe the progress of all the different protracted catarrhs. I venture to digress with a few further remarks on the term chronic disease; which, while it seems indispensable, rccjuires strict limitation, if it is to be safely employed; and.with Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. 5 in endeavouring to effect this, I may be enabled directly to illustrate the definition of variable affections. In the first place, (omitting, for the present, all reference to carcinomatous or malignant diseases,) I deem it necessary to exclude the idea of a finished or settled disorganization, whether partial or complete. Disease is properly a process something going on: it is the disorder of an action; and not the change in the part acting;—at least, I must assume it to be such. Chronic inflammation, with tumefaction of the liver, is a disease which commonly terminates in an irregu- lar contraction and induration ; and then the disease {called chronic) is ended; and a certain permanent disorganization is established, little susceptible of change in itself, although it may maintain true chronic disease elsewhere, as in the case of ascites. Again, in advanced necrosis, the dead bone is the sustaining cause; and the surrounding induration is a settled result, whilst the disease in operation is ulceration. The reader may attach no importance to this distinction of stages; but he cannot pursue a pathological reflection without the knowledge that primitive morbid actions are simply perverted natural functions; and that the consequent disorganization is often totally different, although far short of destruction. Thus a passage may be closed; a fresh one opened; a new secretion set up; a new joint formed, or an original one anchylosed: but there is a wide difference be- tween these (comparatively) unchanging results, and the morbid actions which induced them. Indeed, no one should hesitate in discriminating between a disease in progress or action, and every kind of finished disorganization ; and it is the more essential to distinguish the two, as they are often intimately connected and variously combined. They are, however, always perfectly distinct, and often independent of each other; though, in particular cases, either one may pro- duce the other and whether they commence in acute, vari- able, or chronic disease, the end may very well be in a con- dition of disorganization which is not materially mischievous or rapidly dangerous; as in contractions of the heart’s valves, thickening of the membranes of the brain, or obliteration of a portion of lung. Very many of the diseases styled chronic proceed variably, or slowly subside; or having sub-() Mr. King on Disorders which are Variable ; sided, are liable to be renewed. Parts considerably disor- ganized may admit of fresh disturbance and further change; but their acquired states are otherwise generally permanent; at least, there are numberless instances of these kinds; and to these my observations may be restricted. In studying the common traits even of the majority of diseases, the cha- racter which I have endeavoured to establish will continually enforce attention; and most of all, perhaps, in relation to many different chronic diseases; for it will appear, that it is their remarkable and almost constantly distinguishing fea- ture, that they evince a tendency, and often repeated efforts, towards reparation or subsidence, with occasional relapses from temporary deranging causes. Sometimes, as it is said, the disease wears itself out; that is, the restorative efforts gain the ascendancy often by judicious treatment, or merely from the absence of deranging influence, but especially at certain periods of life: and, in truth, so great an effect does age produce, that the cases in question would now and then appear to be restored without the concurrence of other fa- vourable causes: but this is only an appearance, not a reality, as we may hereafter find. As examples of reparative kinds of chronic affections, many ulcers might be adduced; and particularly the erratic (healing on one side, and extending on the other); and also numerous variable painful and dyspeptic disorders. Nothing, I suppose, can be much more certain, than that we every now and then observe some instances of continued derange- ment, or even of disorganization, which, if it do not actually become repaired, presents at least a manifest degree of im- provement ; and, notwithstanding, frequently goes on, to the ultimate destruction of life. Sometimes an extremely similar state proceeds, xminterruptedly, to a fatal conclusion. Oc- casionally, too, we may see the less promising case happily cured; whilst, on the other hand, that which may justly have been deemed favourable, proves,’ even in the ablest hands, ultimately destructive. But that almost all cases of the kind alluded to seem to admit of remedy or considerable pallia- tion, at one period or another, is a fact which gives them a particular interest, and claims the utmost attention. In those cases where death occurs, we find it to resultwith Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. 7 from the gradual obstruction of one or more important functions, or from the general exhaustion which is produced. It may frequently perhaps be referred to the combination of these two causes; or rather, as I believe (after many exami- nations of such cases after death), from a sudden accession of inflammation in a vital organ, as an arachnitis, a pneu- monia, or hydrothorax. Repeated relapses, exposure, and the medical treatment (whether good or bad), may have con- curred to waste the patient: the slightest cause produces the acute attack, and the patient is said to have died of exhaus- tion. There is, doubtless, a period after which no remedy would avail; yet it is a common, a fair, and a profitable re- flection, that certain diseases, sometimes fatal, may he cured or repaired in a different constitution; or, that under more favourable circumstances, even in the same individual, they might have admitted much palliation. All kinds are reme- diable, at certain stages: and, for the most part, experience cannot easily decide that any gwen state is not so. We have seen that the disposition to return is common to many kinde of disease; and we may understand how it hap- pens that ordinary causes of derangement tend to afiect the organ which is most susceptible (which is said to be the weakest). Now here, to obviate the cause, is to cure the disease ; for the available truth is, that these cases preserve the character of reparability, or a strong restorative ten- dency,—a power which does not seem to have been hitherto well explained, with regard to any diseases*. But it is the * That many diseases exert spontaneous curative energy—that they are innately disposed to subside, extraneous influence being removed—is, I conceive, amongst the most general laws of medicine. The proof of this is as wide and clear as the descriptive parts of all nosography; but it is not easy to put it in few words. (Vide First General Laws,'’Sec. ip. 2G.} It is not possible for one to understand the nature of the restorative eflbrts, without a knowledge of the processes which physiologically maintain the balance of health ; and with this knowledge it must be hard for any one to deny that diseases naturally tend to decline. The assertion must he admitted for every hind of curable disease. It shews, too, how all sorts of disorders get well, under all kinds of treatment; not to say, all kinds of mismanagement and neglect. I do not admit that tlie ten- dency is ever merely apparent; still less do I allow that it is absent wlicii not apparent. I believe it to belong, in the most complete degree, to all variable diseases.Mr. King un Disorders which are Variable; 8 combination of restorative action and relapse which is to guide the practitioner in the detection of variable diseases, and in every step of their proper treatment. A brief remark may serve to point out the relation of malignant diseases to our present subject. I think that we cannot say they return, when removed; but that, correctly speaking, they are rather continued, than renewed. The disease may appear in a part adjoining, or in a more distant organ; and we may admit, for the present*, that, whether in one part or the whole frame, its progress exhibits only diffe- rent degrees of rapidity. Sometimes it may be quiescent; but the inclination towards repair seems almost or altogether deficient. Occasionally, an acceleration seems to take the place of a relapse. Still, however, death mostly occurs by an acute inflammation, superadded on the wasted body; as a phlebitis obstructing a necessary current, or a watery bron- chitis, &c., as we saw in many variable or chronic affections. The sum of the foregoing reflections on Variable Diseases is this;—They are to be distinguished by a more or less dilatory and devious course: and all which are here treated of, are, at least in kind, not necessarily fatal; though one or another instance may seem difficult of controul, and even intractable. These diseases are susceptible of arrest and reparation, often spontaneously; but for the most part easily relapsing; and liable to return, when cured. These, in different degrees, are the main characteristics of all variable diseases; which, when arranged together for the advantages of comparison, will be found to throw light upon each other: and I have been led to suppose that the rise, pro- gress, and treatment of the whole series, however various, will hereby be reasonably illustrated. The common occurrence of different variable affections renders it needless for me to particularize them very care- fully. They cannot be difficult of detection. Inflammations and fevers will every now and then afford instances, and likewise a majority of painful affections. There seems to be no form of struma to which the term variable may not * The truth seems to demand some reserve, even here: what is granted is for the sake of illustration by contrast, rather than for the purpose of a settled distinction; as may yet be shewn.with Inf (fences from the Character of Chanyeableness. 9 at times be applicable: and the same may be said of all the different catarrhs, and many affections of the digestive organs, the skin and nervous system, and even also the circulatory. Although I feel assured that experience must go with me, I fear even this brief enumeration must excite objection: I therefore restrict myself. As to the forms of ague, hectic, epilepsy, tic douloureux, and some others, I shall merely say, that I by no means exclude them; but my desire is now only to maintain the previous considerations. Should it be objected, that it is overstraining the point of distinction to represent one trait of a disease as an isolated or exclusive distinction; I would briefly reply, that I confi- dently expect that a reasonable attention to the whole pro- gress of any set of variable affections will eventually justify this partial course; which, if it require any excuse, does not seem to demand more of me, than to refer the objector, and the learner, who is in need of other knowledge, to those countless works which are at least partial in the exclusion of the present doctrine. It needs scarcely be said, that I ad- vert to the books on diagnosis and ordinary practice. The subjects of our inquiry are not unnaturally arranged in the following plan; although my aim is here to contrast the main differences, rather than to give a list of the varieties. Different Modes in which Diseases appear variable. 1. Many diseases are often seen successively mending and declining for months ; or re-appearing after many months, as struma in the knee, or an ulcer. 2. One affection may be observed in a similar manner alternating with another, whether acute or chronic: and here, also, may be found more or less of restorative interval and sudden decline. Diarrhoea and phthisical catarrh offer a common example. 3. Acute diseases, in their ordinary course, will every now and then be found to grow worse on a sudden, and unexpectedly, and sometimes as it were by successive leaps with or without signs of convalescence: this is seen in rheumatism, fevers, &c. 4. Acute afl'ections are liable to distinct relaps(’s, mostly during the early days of convalescence. Perhaps there arc10 Mr. King on Disorders which are Variable ; no phlegmasia?, or fevers, to which this does not apply, in some sense or degree, 5. Certain affections are subject to simple metastasis; and, again, to an alternating metastasis; as, gout, gout and phrenitis, gout in the stomach (?), &c. I hope that many will see a consistency and use in this mode of bringing together dissimilar cases ; and that a few remarks on the preceding varieties may serve to render the intention more apparent to all. 1. The instance of a strumous joint serves to indicate directly the influence of local causes of recuiTent disease; as, motion, gravitation, or ill-judged pressure. Other cases of this first kind seem to relapse by the immediate action of cold, or even heat (to the part); or even, perhaps, of an excessive stimulant action of air only: so it is with parti- cular kinds of ophthalmia, or asthma, perhaps. In the example of ulcers which have existed long, habit seems to explain their retrograde course: or, at least, when an old sore is partially or completely healed, the arrest of the habitual secretion must assist to explain the subsequent inflammation and renewal of discharge: and yet more pointedly, when we compare this event with the apoplexy or internal phlegmasia that often takes its place. 2. With respect to the alternating forms of variable dis- ease, they manifest, I think, pretty constantly, a reparative stage before the recurrent attack or secondary affection: and when the causes of the first and subsequent disturbances are duly investigated, it will be often easy to explain why the secondary affection arises, and is renewed now and then, in preference to the primary disease. The instance of phthisis is not a very simple one. The restorative periods may be marked enough; but the frequent persevering re- lapses, along with the regimen, produce wasting and decline of all the functions with increased susceptibility. The digestive organs are disproportionably subject to distur- bance. The action of the skin is suppressed by day, and perhaps by night, or only at times encouraged; whilst for a period the lungs may be jilaced under unusually easyidth Inferences from the Character of Changeableness. ] 1 circumstances, with regard to the state of air, as well as the freedom and quantity of circulation. But this is only a partial explanation by the way. In the alternations of gout and catarrh, the first disease may he referred to diet, or constipation, or the like; and the latter to the state of the atmosphere, as cold, &c.; while the period of convalescence, which is more or less considerable, depends on the natural efforts of the frame. 3. The remark, that diseases, whose ordinary course is steady, may get worse as it were by leaps, is no doubt true; and again, more vital parts may become affected, and yet these events may be only relapses: for still attention will discover very frequently a tendency to convalescence, even in the course of some of the worst cases. I do not seek to shew that all such cases of recurrent dis- ease are dependent on renewed or superadded disturbance from without; though this is, I believe, the most common cause. We must look watchfully for internal causes: but let us not fail to beware of the external, as temperature, diet, and remedies; and especially to watch lest the latter un- awares serve to augment the patient’s fast-increasing sus- ceptibility to the former causes. There is reason enough to conclude that morbid accumulations and sudden out- breakings* of disease may, at least occasionally, occur in- dependently of external influences. The causes of disease are, however,’separate topics, and demand distinct atten- tion : they can only here be used in the way of passing explanation. 4. With respect to distinct relapses when the restorative processes are in full activity, surely it is reasonable, without pressing these views too far, to assume the concurrence of some fresh disturbance from without;—and as, with regard to * The periodic nature of many and very various seizures seems justly to depend for explanation on the study of what is periodic in the physiological sense: but this, too, is a neglected topic, and would first require to be brought forward ; as the structure of the eye must be learned before its disorders can be understood. Beyond the study of Periodicity, as to disease, there will not remain many residual facts relative to the internal accumulation or evolution of morbid causes ; i,e. not many of an intricate nature.Mr. King on Disorders ivhich are Variable ; 12 5. Metastasis, we should include the possibility of a too hasty process of cure; as of a large ulcer by efficient dressings &c.; or as of inflammation by cold. These last cases seem to me to add strong reflections* to the mutual illustration which the several cases adduced afford. However these opinions may seem strained or over-refined, I shall not here consider it my province, in order to justify myself, to expatiate at length upon the most important cor- roboration of their value; namely, the causes and the remedies of these most common forms of disease. The exposition of the laws which belong to constitution and to the periodicity of diseases should first be attempted; but I shall at present confine myself to a few remarks, which may assist to explain the main object of the views I have been dwelling on. The observer will pretty readily determine for himself how far he can avail himself of the distinction advocated: yet I would once again earnestly ask. Is it nothing to see at a glance that the patient has a variable affection—a mani- fest, nay, even obstinate tendency to get well ? Is it not a most impressive observation, when perhaps he is on the verge of destruction, that but for some simple, unknown, or undiscoverable causes of retrogression, there is reason to know the disease is ready to disappear. Who shall venture to assert that metastasis is not from cold, or a similarly avoidable cause, acting perhaps even in the moment of convalescence ? Who will say that relapse in fevers or acute phlegmasiae is not to be prevented by more studious attention to deranging influences ? Is not he but an indifferent observer, who does not con- * Indeed, it must be confessed, that without a continual reference to the idea of new causes—sometimes from within, sometimes from without, and not seldom both from within and from without—the records of medical treatment, and of the progress of diseases, are fallacious, almost without hope. Practical works almost always strike me as deficient here, and so far unavailable. Surely it is plain that the reader should not be left to discover all the hourly distinctions between the diseases and the relapse, and between the power of remedies and tlie powers of nature; that is to say, if it be true that diseases tend to subside of tliemselvcs, and accidental relapses (so to speak) are indeed common.with Inferences from the Character of Chanyeableness. 13 timially detect tlie action of almost hourly causes alFecting the progress of his patients, alike in chronic or acute cases ? And do they not themselves discover oppression, at a certain time, after particular meals; and after exposure, as in a carriage, in a cold room, or even in bed ? O . , One who has a disease, the nature of which may be mani- fest, or as yet undiscoverable, will present himself; saying, “ I have a cough, or a pain in my side, or a headache, an uneasiness at the stomach, or disordered bowels;—every now and then I am unwell or worse, and in bad spirits;—my looks and flesh are imperceptibly declining. I have been ailing a good wliile. I am told there is nothing serious in my sym- ptoms ; and I often feel so well, as to be convinced of this; and then, as soon, I am ill again. I am very careful, but I think I am growing weaker.” The proper reply is:—“ I think you are not careful enough. Perhaps you are not temperate in all things; or very likely you take cold unawares.” Change of air is recommended in such a case;—from the daily exposure of a stage-coach, the Exchange, the counting-house, or loitering, inactive (in body), in the cold damp corners of business; from bad hours, habits, and excitement, to simpler pursuits elsewhere;—and country air has all the merit of the cure, when the sole ad- vantage may be, that daily relapse has been prevented (the recurrent cause obviated), and nature has done the rest. I have to remark, that I have passed over a variety of anomalous affections, which essentially belong, in nature and treatment, to the preceding catalogue; though I cannot but regard the extension of these views as of much importance. A natural disposition to recovery is a valuable part of dia- gnosis in any case, if it only tends to the watchful removal of disturbing causes; but its most universal aj)plication should 'fall in with the addition of remedies to our plan, when to the abstraction of all disturbance we endeavour to excite the tardy functions, moderate the active, and support the natural tendency to an equiponderance of the whole. With respect also to diagnosis, variability is still further an available character; for its presence or absenee willMr. King on Disorders which are Variable. 14 materially assist in the discrimination of difficult or doubtful cases. Should it be asked, if I have seen the principle thus employed; the best answer seems to be—“ I think I have seen the cases in which it ought to have been made available.” Here, too, I may remark—as well to apologize for these pages as to maintain their object, — that the more the student*' carries this view with him in reading practical treatises, so much the more, I believe, will he find it indispensable. The sum of the foregoing, in a few words, may be thus stated.—There are indispensable distinctions between vari- able and other diseases; as the simply chronic, the acute, or the malignant; and all these are to be held distinct alike from each other, and from every form of settled disorgani- zation. The several forms of variable disease, whether acute or chronic, illustrate different causes of Variability; and of course, the different prophylactic means, by which, in each particular instance, the innate restorative efforts are most to be facilitated. A reference to Variability will facilitate diagnosis, and cannot be omitted without rendering the treatment of every day more or less fallacious. If it be true, that many diseases are variable, and more- over that most diseases tend to get well spontaneously, which I suppose none will deny; then it needs not to be shewn, that attention to the causes of variability leads directly to cei’tain curative indications ; and it needs not to be shewn that the law which* explains restorative efforts is not opposed to the fact of variability : but it is evident that the law and the fact are essential to each other in the way of illustration. The fact that many diseases are variable, I consider to be a law second only in importance to the most general that medicine embraces. * I am far from applying tliis to those who do not observe for themselves. I would suggest it only as serviceable when the simplicity of the treatises fails under the test of practice.^■x J ’N ■ 4 ■ “^V -y. . • •. ., - . .- ■ .: ti rvt • .» * » ' , . » 1 ■ . -V/- . . /•- ■ • •' ^ . }. . < -}•• , . . T '• ) ' > ' ^AN ESSAY ON THE SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION in the RIGHT VENTRICLE OF THE HUMAN HEART; AND ON THE GKADATIONS OF THIS FUNCTION IN THE CIRCULATION OF WARM-BLOODED ANIMALS. BY MR. T. W. KING. / PUBLISHED IN THE GUY’S HOSPITAL REPORTS, No. IV.The theory about to be brought forward has been already advocated, in separate parts, in two distinct Papers pre- sented to the Royal Society since the spring of the year 1835, and in a recent communication to the Hunterean Society. The following is an abbreviated account of the opinions formerly advanced, but hitherto unpublished;—and addi- tional facts are likewise adduced. The whole is arranged with especial reference to the Preparations contained in the Museum of the Hospital *. Part I.—OF THE SAFETY-VALVE IN MAN. SECT I.—OP THE CAUSES OF DISTENTION IN THE BIGHT VENTRICLE. The explanation of a safety-valve, as it is presumed to exist, is this: The veins, being more or less influenced by their own number and capacity, by the position of the body, by cold, compression, repletion, and respiration, the blood is brought to or collected in the right ventricle in varying * Since the early part of the year 1835, an extensive and novel series of Preparations, considerably more than three hundred in number, have been placed in the Museum, in illustration of the theory which is explained in the title above: and the Collection has also been enriched by a valuable little set of models, displaying the adaptations of all the parts in the heart of man. These last form but a very inconsiderable portion of the labours of Mr. Joseph Town; an artist whose ability is only surpassed by his activity; and whose works, already exceedingly numerous, and perhaps of unequalled execution, are incessantly adding to the rarity of the Collection.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve of the Human Heart. 3 quantities; and on the occasions of the most copious influx, the cavity becomes distended; upon which, portions of the tricuspid valve are drawn aside, an aperture of reflux is produced, and the force of the ventricle is diverted from the pulmonary circulation at the moment when the lungs might otherwise be overwhelmed. The exposition of the varied and gradational structures in the right ventricle of the hearts of animals will be subse- quently produced, both as corroborative and in illustration of the fact of a refluent function. In man—who, in a scale of animals arranged according to their share of this function, is not far from holding a middle place—the distention of the right ventricle depends chiefly upon the forces which bring the blood into it; and, accordingly, the nature of these forces will first require consideration. Of the Force of the Venous Current.—The activity of the venous circulation is shewn by the rapid flow of blood in a vein that has been momentarily emptied by compression (as on the back of the hand); and again, by the distensive fulness so readily produced on obstructing the current (as by a ligature on the arm); which effect takes place notwith- standing the elastic resilience of the tubes and the cutaneous pressure—powers which are sufficient instantly to dissipate the congestion when the obstruction is removed, though not always sufficient of themselves to overcome the gravitation of a considerable column of fluid contents. With respect to the motion of the blood in the great systemic veins, Magendie says, “ It is very probable that the blood flows with unequal rapidity in each of them; but what is certain, is, that the three volumes of fluid endeavour to enter the right auricle, and that the efforts thus made are very considerable.” In order to estimate the force of the venous stream, we may consider the jet produced from a punctured vein, whose course has been arrested, as by a ligature, in vene- section ; and at the same time we may observe the increase of the jet when the muscles are set in motion, as an indi- cation of the general influence of muscular exertion. Of the Causes of the Venous Current.—In studying tlie several powers which combine to propel tlie blood throughMr.King on the Safety-Valve Function 4 the veins to the right side of the heart, it would be neces- sary to explain a variety of influences which are not immediately connected with the present topic: it must there- fore suffice to advert to each of these, without attempting to determine their value. In some parts of the body, the force of gravitation returns the blood to the heart; and it might seem, that elsewhere, as in the legs, the downward pressure of an arterial column serves to weigh against the inert column in the corre- sponding veins. But the most persistant and important power of the venous circulation that we have to consider, consists in a pulsatile wave derived from or through the capillary system. When the body is at rest in the horizontal position, what are the means by which the veins transmit their contents, from all the extreme parts, to the centre of the circulation ? To this inquiry I should not hesitate to reply. That the chief force is the ventricular impulse, propagated, through the arterial tubes and the capillaries, into the veins of every part*. The impulse which extends from the left ventricle to the fingers of the upraised hand, and is thus adequate to main- tain the capillary circulation under such disadvantageous circumstances, will surely be competent to a more extended effect, when all parts of the body are placed on the same level, and freed from all extraneous influences, whether of a disturbing character or of a different kindt. * It has been affirmed, that some propulsive power resides in the capil- lary vessels, but I am not aware of any sufficient testimony to this state- ment : yet I would not absolutely deny to these vessels an operation similar to that of the heart, namely, a passive diastole under the influx from the arteries, and an active subsequent systole, together with an apparatus tantamount to valves, by which the onward current of the circulation is sustained. An endowment of this nature might suffice to explain the varying degrees of distention and activity natural to the capillaries in health and in disease. In many vascular parts, common size injection passes readily from the veins into the arteries ; which is a fact much opposed to the idea of a valvular action in the capillaries. We cannot positively deny to the capil- laries a propulsive peristaltic or vermicular action, but yet it seems almost inadmissible. •f- When the hand is extended above the head, pulsations may still be per- ceived in the fingers ; and the veins, if obstructed by ligature, will still becomein the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 5 Of the Venous Pulse in Health and Disease.—It is, I believe an old experiment, and one which I have also repeated, to immerse the hand in warm water previous to and during venesection; when the jet of blood is distinctly seen to increase with each arterial pulse. This experiment, per- formed upon the cephalic veins, does not seem to admit of objection. It will not always succeed; and it is not easy to say that the venous and arterial pulses are precisely syn- chronous; but they are equal in regularity and number, which is a sufficient proof that the impulse of the left ventricle is not always completely expended on the arterial or even on the capillary system. I was, some time since, surprised to find, that upon lying on my back in the sun-light, after dinner, the large mesian veins of my forehead were visibly pulsating. They are naturally of full size; and having become distended, a rather slow and slight diastole was seen, by the aid of a mirror, with, or a little later, than each temporal pulse*. There is some danger to the experimentalist, that he may imagine more than is really visible; and many persons might he tempted to charge tliis upon me, when I assure them that, on more than one occasion of unusual vascular excitement, I have also seen the dorsal veins of my own hands beating. I feel, however, now strongly convinced of the fact: and, as I could adduce the testimony of more wit- nesses than myself, I can scarcely doubt, that when many are led to observe closely, the fullest corroboration will not be wanting. With respect, also, to the pulse in the frontal veins—hav- ing seen it repeatedly, and having set others, even children, become filled: from which we infer, that the extent of the arterial influence may be even greater than this when the circulation is less impeded ; and, indeed, we very often see the force of the heart acting with excessive and mischievous violence upon dependent parts. * My meal had scarcely been flnished half an hour: it was a very moderate one, with one glass of porter, and nearly as much water. I repeated this under the same circumstances, having taken water only: my veins still beat. On one occasion having had no dinner, and on others when far from being in a state of repletion, I have found it necessary to elevate the feet (as against a wall) in order to fill the frontal veins by gra- vitation; when the appearance of the pulse has generally been brought out.6 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function to observe it, I cannot suppose the statement liable to ob- jection. I proceed to further evidence. It is not long since it occurred to me, that an instrument of sufficient delicacy might detect similar venous pulsations elsewhere. A fine capillary lever, with a long index ra- dius, seemed at once to afford all that was necessary. I drew out such a thread in black sealing-wax, about two inches long; and, with a little tallow, fixed this across a vein on the back of my hand, so that nine-tenths of its length might project on one side of the vein, the power of wliich was thus applied very near to the fixed extremity. In this manner, with the precaution of keeping the vein moderately distended, the movement became very manifest, especially under circumstances of repletion: the little index point slowly rose, and fell with, or possibly a little later, than each radial pulsation. I have reason to think, how- ever, that, in my own person, a very few hours’ fasting destroys this phsenornenon, as far as it is appreciable by the means described. The action of tliis little sphygmometer has been wit- nessed by many ; and I scarcely think that any exception can be fairly made to its application, to prove the existence of a pulse or undulating current in the veins. Applied to an artery, it plays freely and quickly: on a vein, its movement is very steady, and only visible when neatly adapted; whilst if applied to any other part, no motion is produced. In all parts of the arm I have found it indicate a distinct pulse. In some veins, which, by a semi-rotation of the hand may be placed either in front or posteriorly, the effect has been the same in both cases*. On the hand, it is not easy to feel confident that the venous and arterial pulses are not syn- chronous ; but with the sphygmometer applied to a small superficial vein over the head of the radius, a slow rise was seen very manifestly later than the quick radial pulse of the same arm; indeed, it was not quite certain to the mind, * This examination of the pulse of the same vein in different^positions was intended to meet the suspicion, that an adjacent artery might be the cause of the motion.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 7 whether each venous dilatation belonged rather to the pre- ceding than the succeeding radial beat, when the pulses were full and scarcely 60 in the minute. By the same means, the veins of the leg and foot have also been seen to pulsate, though less forcibly. My friend Dr. Foville, who recently visited London, witnessed the repetition of some of these experiments ; and was desirous to have the jugular vein examined in this manner, though we were both alive to the difficulties which the site of this vessel might present. The Doctor was upon very moderate diet, on account of indisposition ; and his circulation being very tranquil, in the evening, he very calmly laid himself across a table, and, after about a minute’s repose, when no perceptible motion affected the vein, the sphygmometer was applied rather above the middle of the neck, the vein being full and of a large size. The motion that it received was the same steady rise which we thought characteristic of the venous pulse, without quickness, and without tremor. There may be some who will continue to hold, that the collateral arterial impulse is a more probable source of this pulsation than the continuity of a capillary wave. To such, I would again point out the difference of the pulses, as to time, force, and duration; and also remind them, that the influence is communicated to the instrument when it is accurately affixed upon a vein, but not when it is applied to any other part. With respect, however, to the influence of the larger arteries upon adjoining veins, I cannot doubt that it is con- siderable. And when the arterial impulse operates collate- rally upon such vessels as the vena? comites, which are so numerous and closely bound about the arteries and copiously supplied with valves, I suppose that there is not a more efficient force of circulation in the veins, particularly in the legs when they are erect and motionless*. I may also * When gravitation tends to distend these veins, the compressions afforded by muscles and skin in repeated movements being absent, the valves ■would be left unemployed, were it not that the well-applied impulse of the beating artery tends always to empty the valvular interspaces, and produce a current towards the right auricle. It must be admitted, that the capillary8 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function observe, that whether the veins pulsate by capillary afflux or from adjacent compressions, there is still, by the action of the valves, the same kind and degree of accelerated venous current. When the number and capacity of the veins are con- sidered in relation to the contents of the arterial trunks, we cannot wonder that the communicated effect is slight: and in weighing this, we must remember, that the sphygmometer not only magnifies the extent of the motion, but also, in a certain degree, its rapidity ; so that the venous pulse, when visible to the eye, should be a very deliberate diastole. To the preceding statements I have to add the following facts, which have been observed more recently. In the pur- suit of the same study, I was attending Dr. Bright in his visit to the wards of the Hospital, and found two men with visibly pulsating veins on the backs of their hands. They were both five-and-thirty years of age. The first presented the most striking evidence. The Doctor not only saw, but thought he could feel, the venous diastole; the wrist being all the while embraced with some firmness, to render the veins large. The patient had an hypertropliic heart, and a very powerful pulse : Ms veins were rather few. In the second instance, which was less marked, the man had had renal anasarca for sixteen days. His heart probably was not quite sound. The pulse was soft, and tolerably good. He was perspiring profusely. The dorsal veins of the hand were pretty numerous and large; and they were covered with abundance of hair; which was remarkable, for the reason that the veins not only beat visibly in many places, but that particular hairs, wMch were well adapted for the purpose, seemed to form so many natural sphygmo- meters. It was here also necessary to enlarge the veins by gently grasping the wrist. We may readily perceive a variety of circumstances that must necessarily affect the venous pulse, and the degree of its manifestation. Such are the application of cold or heat, vis d tergo cannot well be separated from the consideration of a collateral impulse, when we endeavour to estimate the forces of the cerebral circula- tion, which is unaided by valves: and other parts afford a similar difficulty ; as, for instance, the vascular tissue of a solid viscus or cylindrical bone.9 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart and of frictions, and the continued exercise or rest of the part for a given time;—and again, the state of repletion, tlie nature of the food, the capacity of the veins, with the health, the age, and the sex of the individual. I may venture to express an anticipation, that more care- ful observation, even with the unassisted eye, will detect pulsating veins more frequently than has hitherto been done, and even render this fact available in diagnosis. I would also hope that the' examination of the veins, by the help of the sphygmometer, may become still more generally service- able in practical matters. I come now to the examination of those rare cases of disease in which the venous pulse is admitted to exist by all physicians, although it has been seen but by a very few. The only unquestionable instance, within my own experi- ence, occurred in a patient, of whose history, before and after death, I preserved pretty detailed accounts. Of these, the following is an abstract;— A little girl of eleven years of age, who had suffered both privations and ill treatment, became the subject of purpura in diffused patches, attended with haemorrhages, and a febrile state; during which, on very gently grasping the wrist in feeling the pulse, I observed for several days the numerous and rather full veins of the hand both prominent and beating. There was, in all of them, a very distinct diastole and systole; synchronous, as they seemed, with those of the radial pulse. Tliis patient appeared to be in a convalescent state ; when she was rather suddenly found to grow worse, as if from internal heemorrhage, and was carried off in a few days. In addition to the external bleedings, the post-mortem examination offered the appearance of petechiaj beneath many of the serous membranes. The parotid gland was in a state of suppuration; the lungs were cedematous; and the heart s substance healthy. The blood was watery, and the kidneys were affected with a pale hypertrophy. The earliest notice I have been able to find of a similar case,is that which Haller* has quoted: and single instances * Elementa Pliysiologim, T. II. p. 25(5.]0 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function have been more recently related by Steinbucli* * * §, in the Philadelpliia Journalt, by SundelinJ, by Beyer §, by Dr. Davis of Dublin II, by Dr. Elliston^ by Dr. Ward**, by Dr. Graves ft, (who indeed records two), and, lastly, by Dr. Benson ||. These cases do not appear to me to admit of any tenable objections. The unnatural pulsation was well marked, and well observed; but it is impossible to give a satisfactory account of the events, in this place. One was in a young convalescent fever patient; others occurred during fever, and mostly with petechiae ; and others, again, in more chronic cases, and generally with some thoracic obstruction. In all, there was some degree of vascular excitement. In reviewing these cases, I find no other conclusion admissible, than that the pulse is derived from or through the capillaries. The details and circumstances present some very remarkable features. For the present, however, the facts are only produced to elucidate the sources of accumu- lation in the right ventricle. There are yet some secondary but powerful causes of congestion in the right ventricle, which must be briefly described. l^he Influence of Atmospheric Pressure.—Another source of impulse in the venous current is doubtless seen in the pressure of the atmosphere, at least in those great vessels which open into the chest, and which are emptied more or less by the inspiratory efforts. This action is likewise indirectly aided by the proper valves of the vessels, but not without an especial regard to facilitating the circulation of * Journal der practischen Heilkunde, Sept. 1815. See also tlie Journ. Compl. "t See the Lond. Med. Journ. V. III. p. 361. $ Sundelin in Archiv fiir Medicinische Erfahrung, 1822. See also the Journ. Compl. § A Paper by Beyer of Ohlan, on this subject, in the Journal Compli- mentaire, T. XXI. 1825. II Dublin Hospital Reports, V. 4. II See the last Edition of Blumenbach’s Physiology. ** In the London Med. Gaz. V. 10. In the Dublin Journal of Med. and Chemical Science for Sept. 1834 ±± Ibid. Nov. 1835.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 11 tlie superior cava, before that of the inferior half of the body; a circumstance which is deserving of some attention. The Effects of Compression by Muscular Action, 8fc.—It is very remarkable with how great force the contents of the veins may be driven inwards to the heart by the rapid movements of the body ; the varying pressure of muscles and integuments acting on the venous tubes, with the assistance of their valves, to hurry on the current of the blood. One sustained effort of the body may obstruct and distend many particular veins; but the quickly-repeated pressure of muscles and skin, &c., as in the free motions of the limbs, operating upon all the veins of a part in succes- sion, must necessarily propel all their blood towards the heart very speedily. Let any one with well-developed veins take an opportunity, in a state of repletion, when the super- ficial veins are become turgid, to make a few general and hasty movements of the body, and all turgescence will disappear at once. On standing, after dinner, the veins of the leg swell freely; but a few steps, performed with com- plete flexions and extensions of the joints, instantly empty every vessel. The internal congestions which follow these exertions are felt to be in the chest, and have been expe- rienced by every one. The Effect of Repletion.—It would be out of place here to dilate upon the circumstances of general venous repletions. The rapidity with which fluids and chyle are occasionally poured into the veins in large quantities is well established. In experiments, fluids have been absorbed in great abundance from the stomach; and, at the same time, the circulating system, including the spleen, has become distended. It is well known how inordinately some persons drink, and how quickly the fulness of the vessels follows: indeed, the acce- lerated secretions are the best proofs of the progress of absorption. That many quarts are often thus absorbed in a few hours is as certain as that the fluids are not evacuated by the bowels. The turgid surface and dilated veins, manifest after a full meal, will sufficiently testify the copious influx of chyle and fluids into the circulation; not to mention the state of the heart and lungs, or that of the arteries and secerning organs.12 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function The Effect of Cold.—Considerable degrees of cold applied over the surface of the body must have a material effect upon the venous system, internally. The surface is blanched by the contraction of its capillary blood-vessels, and the anserine roughness is probably dependent upon a similar cause. At the same time, a general and rather firm contraction of the exposed integument propels the contents of the larger superficial veins towards the right side of the heart, whilst the arteries and left ventricle soon evince the effect of an impeded capillary circulation. Disturbed Respiration.—On suspending the respiration by a voluntary effort, the movements of the left ventricle and arterial pulse continue unaltered, even as long as we are capable of maintaining the effort; and the experiment may be prolonged considerably, by taking the precaution of per- forming several full* respirations immediately before it. From this I conclude, that the circulation through the lungs is sustained until the aerating functions of those organs, is nearly or quite suspended—until the oxygen they contain is expended; but there can be no doubt, to the pathologist and the experimentalist, that every considerable impediment to respiration produces delay in the right side of the heart and its vessels. The like result will probably happen, during severe exertion, from particular or general interruptions to the progress of circulation. In the more transitory obstructions of the lungs by dis- ease, the impediment in the circulation must be pretty obvious. The Combination of Causes distending the Right Ventricle.— We have already adverted to the influence of cold, repletion, and the muscular compression of the venous system, as individual causes of internal congestion; but whatever power may be imputed to any one of these, the reflecting physio- logist will scarcely hesitate to admit the inevitable existence * The augmented power of suspending the respiration, after a repetition of complete exspirations, appears to have been tried by Professor Faraday, according to Dr. Williams. See Dublin Journ. of Med. and Chem. Science, Scj)l. 1113!}, p. 153.13 in the Eight Ventricle of the Human Heart of distention* in the great veins and right side of the heart, in the case—which is by no means a supposititious one where, in a healthy person, accident combines the three great causes of internal accumulation ; namely, sudden repletion, exertion, and exposure to cold. And may not the result of an impeded respiration be superadded to this combinationi"? SECT. 2.—CIRCUMSTANCES ILLUSTBATINR ACCUMULATION IN THE BIGHT VENTRICLE. The Living Heart exposed—T\mt the right ventricle rea- dily becomes turgid from obstructions to the pulmonary circulation is well seen in experiments upon the living heart, in situ. The right side begins to swell with the first dis- turbance of the respiration, whether the lungs are kept distended by tying the trachea, or suffered to collapse in opening the chest, or even if an imperfect artificial respira- tion be kept up ; whilst the reduced state of the left side of the heart clearly shews that the lungs transmit but little ^blood. * We may see the veins of the temple or forehead dilate, independently of exertion or disease, dven more than often happens in the depending hand; so that the actual internal pressure, and the compressing power exerted by the skin and coats of the vessels, must be very considerable; and may we not safely conclude, that this fulness extends through the larger veins which lead to the right ventricle ; thus forming a fluid column from twelve to twenty inches high, the gravity and impulse of which are directed upon a cavity, the extent of whose surface may probably vary, in health, between eight and fourteen square inches, and, in disease, from twelve to eighteen? The influence of gravitation'is of course augmented in the in- verted positions of the body. It is, however, impossible to estimate the physiological effect of the accumulated forces of the venous streams, when gravitation, and the natural current, or vis a tergo, may all chance to unite with disturbed respiration, repletion, cold, and exertion, in various or exces- sive degrees, to overflow the right side of the heart. Lastly, the increased feebleness of a distended ventricle, in a state perhaps of fatigue, and the additional resistance afforded by the increased quantity of contents, must still further augment the difficulty. Would it not also appear that any pulmonary turgescence or olistruction must impede the systole ? We shall hereafter have to trace the analogies of the above conditions in animals—in the arrested respiration of the divers, and in the inactivity of many animals under circumstances of repletion, which are variable in some, and in others seem almost habitual. The very different proj)ortions of drink necessary to various kinds of quadrupeds and birds present a similar analogy.14 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function Accumulation in Dying.—Having been for many years in the eonstant, almost daily practice of examining the dead, I have been led to observe, that a very great number of deaths from disease are attended with some degree of unna- tural fulness of the right side of the heart, whilst the left side is commonly found empty. Suddenly-fatal diseases, charac- terized by great depletion, may terminate with partial emptiness, and contraction even, of the right side of the heart; though never perhaps complete. The left side is continually found, in death, to contain only a few drachms of blood, with the exception of those cases involving derange- ments of the part itself. I feel also confident in declaring, that in the sudden death of the generally healthy frame the blood is expelled from the left cavities, but commonly fills the right even in cases of haemorrhages*. In the last, however, the strength of the right ventricle seems sometimes to resist the diminished tendency to distention, and it becomes firmly contracted. In many cases of death from disease, the distention of the right ventricle is found to be most excessive ; and this con- gestion is most frequently seen, when it would be impos- sible to impute any part of the effect to the influence of pulmonary resilience'^, or any mode of atmospheric agency. The little power of forming a vacuum within the chest, which might belong to the healthy lung, is evidently over- whelmed by many common diseases; which are, indeed, frequently the cause of congestion in the right ventricle, to the highest degree: as when the lungs remain distended to the utmost from bronchial obstruction and emphysema, or from the effusions of inflammation, or from turgescence and extravasations of blood; as when, also, the lungs are obstructed by different pleural effusions, or any morbid diminution of the thoracic cavity. * I have seen the same distention in animals dying from haemorrhage, or with much loss of blood. This resilience no doubt plays a certain part naturally; and the move- ments of inspiration, in conjunction with the force of gravitation, and the action of the venous valves, may bo very important to the free circulation of the head.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 15 External Pressure acting on the Heart.—There are nume- rous cases of disease in which the surface of the heart is in a state of compression from the fulness of the chest; but, not- withstanding, the right auricle and ventricle are found full, evidently in consequence of accumulation from the veins; whilst the lungs and pulmonary artery have been suffering from obstruction; which has been, in fact, the fatal disease. Hypertrophy of the Right Ventricle.— Even the common morbid increase of muscularity in the right ventricle indi- cates a delay within *; for we know nothing of the simple enlargement of a muscle without some additional excite- ment in the way of difficulty or exercise ; and this hyper- trophic affection is constantly, found in connection with obstructions of the pulmonary circulation, and pretty con- stantly with some permanent distention of the thickened cavity, as well as frequently with a dilated pulmonary artery. Distention.—The fulness of the right ventricle in death, in spite of its tonic contraction, seems very remarkable; and the more so, if we consider that the cavity contracts with great rigidity, when relieved from the internal dis- tending force, within a moderate time after apparent death. Dilatation.—The fact, that the morbid dilatation of the right ventricle is not unfrequent, may serve to prove that the cavity is subject to a certain internal expanding force, at least, in a state of disease—a force that cannot be sup- posed slight, when it is observed to operate effectually against the natural contractile power, and often against a very con- siderable increase of substance and power in the muscular sac. The dilated and hypertrophic right ventricle is con- tinually found in death fully distended with blood; and I am inclined to think that this dilated ventricle is dimi- nished in some degree after death, by the tonic contraction common to all muscles. It seems reasonable to infer, that in the natural states of the circulation, some degree of dis- tention is of much more common occurrence. The Pulmonary Circulation powerful.—The strength of the right ventricle, and of the pulmonary artery and veins, indi- cates a circulation of considerable force; and although tlie * Iiixternal impediments to tlie systole, us from udhesions, are less common.16 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function tricuspid valve may be slightly imperfect, yet the most complete adjustment which is natural to it as a valve, and the fullest propulsion of blood which the ventricle is capable of in liealth, must give rise to a pretty forcible circulation. We find notwithstanding, at least in disease, that delay and internal accumulation may dilate the right ventricle, and thus the valve may become more imperfect: and I have found, on the other hand, in some cases of impeded circu- lation, that the right ventricle has so increased its power and thickness, as to resist all the unusual disposition to dilatation, overpowering the tendency to salutary regurgi- tation, and greatly troubling the pulmonary circulation. There may be in disease a too powerful valve, as well as a too free safety-valve; and the discrimination of these is, I believe, indispensable in pathology and diagnosis. The morbidly increased power of the right ventricle may fairly be supposed to assist in the unnatural dilatation of the left side of the heart. SECT. 3.—OP THE ADAPTATIONS OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE. Having considered the external circumstances which affect the fulness of the right ventricle, I come now to speak more particularly of the cavity itself. The Consequences of Dilatation, as seen in Disease.—The first circumstances which led me to the study of the present subject, was the result of the post-mortem examination of a human right ventricle in a state of morbid dilatation. The part is still preserved; and affords conclusive evidence, that the right ventricle is liable to dilatation, and that the dila- tation deranges its valves. The last proposition is thus explained. Tlie cavity is formed by the solid septum of the heart for its inner wall; and by a thinner, more extensive, and yielding layer of muscle for its outer or right wall; whilst each of these walls affords points of attachment to the cords of the valves. The distention of the cavity, operating chiefly upon the weaker pai’ies, carries it outwards, together with tlie cords and cur- tains attached to it: and the parts of the valve being drawn from tlie proper plane of their valvular adjustment, the backward communication into the auricle remains open. (See Diagrams 1 and 2. I’l, 1.)17 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. I am in the possession of many distinct records, written by myself and others, of similarly dilated hearts, which indeed are common enough; and it is certain that, under ordinary circumstances, the derangement of the valve is a necessary consequence of this dilatation: for, in the pro- gress of post-mortem examinations, I have found, in hearts thus dilated, or only greatly distended by the final con- gestion, that, upon injecting the ventricle by the pulmonary artery, the tricuspid curtains, when stretched out, were, under all circumstances, a great deal too small to close the opening. Derivative Power of the Right Ventricle.—Some authors have been perhaps too ready to suppose an inherent deri- vative power as accessory to the circulation of the right side of the heart; and it is necessary that we should inquire how far such an idea is objectionable. In the first place, it is very difficult to imagine a simply muscular sac, of whatever figure, possessing in any con- siderable degree the power of expanding as well as of contracting: and to suppose, further, that the power of exhaustion may operate through flaccid venous tubes, seems still more unreasonable. Again, the foi’mation of the right ventricle appears in- compatible with such a function. With reference to the thickness of the yielding wall of the right ventricle in man— Lobstein estimates it at two lines and a quarter 2^ Cruveilhier under four say, 3^ Bouillaud, the chief authority of the day, at two and a half, 2\ The measurement of Cuvier may be stated at two lines and one-third ol He regards the thickness of the right ventricle, in man and most animals, as about equal to one-third that of the left. The mean thickness of the left ventricle in the human adult is very generally received to be seven lines. The capacity of the cavities of the heart, as appreciable after death, is very uncertain. The right ventricle in many animals, when unaffected by any accumulation from the veins, slowly contracts in dying, until it will scarcely contain a few drops: under other circumstances, we are ccrtai18 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function that its extent and fulness may be very great; they depend on the degree or force of the venous afflux. The left ven- tricle, in death, always retains a small cavity, unless affected by disease. After a single careful examination with the fingers and scalpel, I think it will be impossible for any one to attribute the slightest power of suction (atmospheric exhaustion) to the healthy right ventricle; since more than lialf of its parietes, consisting of a flesliy sheet very little more than two lines in thickness, are expanded over a surface com- paratively unyielding, and always more or less convex*. Indeed, supposing a po-wer of exhaustion to belong to the left ventricle, it is plain that the riglit cavity must be encroached upon, to admit of its dilating operation; for the right ventricle is folded over the left, and in a manner incloses itf. It is very true, that a heart may be seen to contract and dilate when placed in water; and a similar movement may be observed in the fibrous bands of a volun- tary muscle; that is, a distinct contraction succeeded by a partial elongation, and this repeatedly, as I have often wit- nessed in limbs removed by amputation. The butcher makes a transverse division of the central fibres of the panniculus carnosus, and immediately a wude elliptical se- paration of the divided edges takes place; and this persists, yet the fibres are still seen contracting and elongating suc- cessively, after having permanently lost much of their normal length. In every case, a muscle, having acted fully, must require some extraneous force to re-adjust it for the repetition of the same complete action. It can scarcely appear possible even for the left ventricle to be capable of spontaneously expanding with its full natural diastole ; during which diastole it is jialpably soft and loose: else what could be the use of the muscular auricle, and its contractions ? and what would be the use of a densely organized set of veins, the impetus of whose current we know to be fully competent to the dilatation of both auricle * See Diagram 3. PI. 1. -f- In some birds, the right ventricle is wound fully half round that of the left side.19 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. and ventricle to an excessive degree, even when their walls have attained to nearly double their natural thick- ness*? Remembering the soft and relaxed state of the ventricle during its diastole, no one can suppose the cavity to be endowed with a power of dilating, even beyond the natural limit of its diastole. Yet the cavity does become morbidly expanded; sometimes, when its walls are unusually feeble; at another time, without any evident alteration in their substance; and, in a third case, the walls seem to increase, both in substance and power, dui'ing the process of dilatation f- May it not be concluded, that the natural full diastole of the right ventricle (as well as that of the left) takes place by a forcible internal accumulation; which accumulation, it is plain, can be the only cause of all greater degrees of dila- tation ? SECT. 4.—DESCRIPTION OF THE HUMAN TRICUSPID VALVE. The right auriculo-veniricular opening is oval|; and to its circumference the membrane of the tricuspid valve has at- tachment, without any distinct interruption; whilst its floating border, depending into the ventricle, is deeply fissured, so as to form three or more scalloped or angular curtains: and it appears, from careful examination, that the united areas of these valvular portions are scarcely more than equal to the mean extent of the oval opening. One of the curtains (which, being least moveable, I have called fixed) occupies the left margin of the aperture in apposition with the solid wall, * The left auricle is very liable to extreme dilatation, and to hypertrophy, and often when the communication through the mitral aperture is most con- fined : which circumstance seems to exclude the idea of any other source of forcible distention besides the arrested stream from the pulmonary veins. An auricle thus circumstanced, that would contain an orange of large size, and which has exerted great compression on the neighbouring parts such as I have many times seen, must furnish a strong testimony in favour of a dis- tending venous current. It is now some years since I first found the left bronchus flattened by the pressure of the dilated left auricle ; and this I continue, occasionally, both to find and to prognosticate. -|- Or the additional muscularity may be acquired during some favourable nourishing interval in the dilating process; the enlarged cavity having a much greater effort to make, in order to propel its accumulating contents. X See Fig. 2. IM. 1.20 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function from which arise all the cords that serve to secure the free edges and ventricular surface of the fixed curtain. These cords are of such a length, as scarcely to allow the curtain to rise into the plane of the oval opening, in the natural play of the valve, and, being destitute of muscular columns, cannot, by any possibility, set the valve in motion, or serve any other purpose than that of preventing too great a reflux of the curtain itself. A second curtain (the anterior) is at- tached at the anterior and right edge of the opening, having one free border forwards and another backwards in the ventricle*. Each border has its proper set of cords:—the anterior or upper set have their insertion into a mere nipple of muscle on the solid wall, in the direction of the pulmo- nary artery; and the inferior or posterior are as invariably collected with numerous others into the summit of a mus- cular column whose base is inserted into the thin right or yielding wall of the ventricle, near its centre; where also is attached, almost as regularly, another muscular band, which stretches across the cavity between the two walls. This band may have an average length of six or seven lines, and a circumference of three or four: it seems calculated to limit distention, and therefore I have called it the moderator band of distention. The third curtain or fold of the valve (the right) is situated on the right side of the aperture posteriorly, and has little or no connection with the inner (left) edge of the oval openingt. In extent and figure, it varies con- siderably ; and it rarely forms one simple scallop, but is frequently fissured so as to form two or three, more or less complete. Its cords are accordingly arranged in two or more sets; the greater part of which are attached by the intervention of muscular columns to the outer or yielding wall, at a considerable distance from the solid wall, and usually without any transverse connecting bridge or moderator hand. Having concluded that all parts of the valve in connection witli the yielding wall of the ventricle are affected by dila- tation, I venture to call them curtains, cords, and columns of distention. The anterior and right curtains, then, are parts of * See (D 1.) Figs. 1 and 2. PI. 1. t Sce (D 2.) Figs. 1 and 2. PI. 1.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 21 distention, together with the cords and fleshy columns at- tached to the yielding wall. As it is seen in the left ventricle, so we may partially trace in the right, that each column is disposed to receive cords from the adjoining edges of two curtains. But it is desirable to notice, that the valvular insertions of the cords are more direct and widely scattered in the right than in the left ventricle; the object being, in the first, to restrain the curtains in one uniform valvular plane. The anterior or first column of distention, with its moderator hand, may be regarded as a constant formation. (D, Fig. 1. PI. 1.) A second column (E, Fig. 1. PI. 1.) exists almost as uni- formly, and often a third; but these columns of distention vary a good deal in size and arrangement. Frequently, the first column of distention is distinctly double ; and sometimes there is a second moderator hand. The length of the columns of distention is probably of very considerable importance. The first or larger column, in particular, sometimes reaches actually into the apex of the ventricle ; (see D, Diagram 4. PI. 1.) And if it be true, first, that the valve, in/closing, tends to form a plane; and secondly, that distention deranges the curtains of distention ; it follows, that the contraction of these columns must in- crease the derangement. This effect will be in exact pro- portion to the length of the columns. It has been maintained by some, that the operation of the muscular columns is to prepare or arrange the curtains for their valvular closure; and this may be in part true with re- gard to the bicuspid : but since, in most animals, some parts of the tricuspid curtains have no columns, and since, in certain other cases, the columns do not exist at all, we may conclude that they are not essential to the nice adjustment of the valve. I think it will be fair to grant, that the muscular columns can have no influence op the valve, until the cords are more or less in a state of tension ; which manifestly cannot occur until the curtains are stretched out in or near the plane of the opening. Probably, also, the curtains must elongate the columns, to prepare them for a full contraction. As a sail is swelled by the wind, and confined by its ropes, so these22 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve Function curtains are extended by sanguineous pressure, and retained in the position required, whether for closure or for reflux • while the contraction of the columns may compensate, in either case, for the systolic drawing-in of the walls. Yielding of the Tricuspid Fomme/i.—Hypertrophy of the right ventricle, which is doubtless the result of a difiicult circulation, is very frequently accompanied by some dila- tation of the tricuspid foramen, as well as of the cavity. Bouillaud deduces, by actual admeasurements, a mean circumference of the right auriculo-ventricular foramen, equal to 3 in. 10 lines, from three adult healthy hearts; and one of 5 in. 2 lines, from five adult thickened and dilated hearts. Now, it may be impossible strictly to prove that this aperture in the human subject may admit of distention during health; although we find it every now and then morbidly enlarged, and not, as it would appear, from any weakness; for the power of resistance is, on the contrary, rather increased. The contraction of the aperture, how- ever, in concurrence with the general contraction of the ventricle, is shewn plainly enough in those cases in which the heart has been found to diminish its cavities by a de- gree of tonic contraction, when removed a few hours after death* (as hereafter to be related). It will appear, likewise, that simple congestion of the right ventricle is sufficient, in many animals, to dilate this opening. The most simple proof is furnished by some birds. Assuming the circumference of the tricuspid opening to be capable of relaxation under distention and during health, we must consider that the valve will participate in the alte- ration ; but as the yielding will take place almost entirely in the right or feeble margin, the displacement will only affect the curtains attached to this part (namely, the anterior or second, and the right or third), which is a good deal more extensive than that formed by the solid wall. (See Fig. 1. PI. 1; and D I, and D 2, Fig. 2. PI. 1.) Under these circumstances, the term curtain of distention will include still more of the valve, or nearly two-thirds of its circumference. '* I’cijjes 130, 131,137, and 130. See also Expeidnieats on Animals, Part 2.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart 23 SECT. 6.—THE OPERATION OP THE SAFETY-VALVE. We are now prepared to enter upon the consideration of tlie proper function or operation of the tricuspid valve; concerning which, I find that Richerand, in his “ Elements of Physiology*,” has the following remarkable observa- tion :—“ On the point of death, the lungs expand with difficulty ; and the blood sent into them, by the contractions of the right ventricle, being no longer able to circulate through them, collects in that cavity, flows back into the right auricle, in which the veins continue to deposit blood, stretches their parietes, and increases considerably the di- mensions of their cavities.” He observes, however, in continuation, that “ regurgitation is prevented by the tri- cuspid valve. “ but that a certain quantity of reflux pre- cedes the perfect closure of the valve f: and besides, the three portions of the tricuspid valve do not close completely the aperture around which they are placed; they are per- forated by a number of small holes: a part of the blood, therefore, returns into the auricle, but the greatest portion is sent into the pulmonary artery.” These perforations, how- ever, must, I think, be exceedingly rare. The works | of Harvey and Hunter contain distinct allu- ^ Chap. 3. § 51. The 4th edition, by Dr. Copland. -f- For the elucidation of this very reasonable opinion, see the state of the tricuspid curtains in Fig. 1. PI. 1 ; which may be supposed to shew an exaggerated degree ot openness in the valve, as produced by the simple afflux of blood ; and in the same manner, likewise, the quantity of regurgi- tation that must be produced previous to the accurate closing of the cur- tains together, whilst they are falling back, and the systole is proceeding. Dr. Reid has detailed, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, April 183C, a number of experiments, in which the right side of the heart being found congested in animals poisoned or hanged, it was shewn that venesection, soon after the heart ceased to beat, at once relieved the right ventricle, and excited its pulsations. This would seem to shew both that the distention is powerful, and that reflux is necessary. The experi- ments were all performed on animals with the smallest share of safety-valve apparatus. X “ Ideo valvulae istse mitrales, mole et rohore, et exactuclausurd, illas in dextro positas exuperant.” Harvey, De Molu tj-c. “ I have reason to believe that the valves of the right side of the heart do not so perfectly do their duty as those of the left: therefore we may suppose it was not necessary.” {^Hunter: Animal QScon.) Hunter here includes the pulmonary sigmoid valves.24 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function sions to the feeble or imperfect action of the human tricuspid valve; and some subsequent writers have made a similar admission*. This is a fact which I have stated to be manifest enough, even on making a superficial examination of the part; but especially certain on drawing a careful comparison between the valves of the right and left side. I have shewn, that, upon injecting fluids into the ventricles by their respective arteries (the sigmoid valves being destroyed), the left or bicuspid valve was always seen to close completely and firmly; the curtains being so extensive as to fold together in the form of a cone or wedge within the ventricle, whilst the tricuspid was constantly found in its ordinary state, incapable of preventing a considerable reflux. With every attempt to induce an accurate closure of this valve, its scanty and divided curtains united imperfectly or scarcely met, and were only sufficient, at the best, to form a plane equal to the area of the opening. The construction which I have described, in connection * Dr. Adams of Dublin has expressed a very distinct opinion in favour of a safety-valve, yet without adverting to the cause or the mode^of its operation. * Of the jugular pulse he says : “ To me it appears most probable, that it.- “ results from the regurgitation of blood from the right ventricle into the “ auricle, by which the current descending from the jugular veins is repelled “ back into these vessels during the systole of the ventricle.” Dr. Adams, adverting to the older remark of the imperfect closure of the tricuspid, states very forcibly, “ that, in his opinion, this circumstance has “ not been sufficiently noticed, nor the influence that such a structure may ‘‘ have on the circulation in its natural or morbid state considered. I look “ upon this difi'erence of the valves of the right and left side of the heart to “ be a natural provision, to allow of a partial reflux into the right auricle, “ on those occasions when, from any cause, the passage of the blood through- “ out the arterial opening is retarded. Such a provision was absolutely “ necessary in the right or pulmonary ventricle ; as various natural causes “ must momentarily retard the passage of the blood through-the lungs.”— See the Dublin Hospital Reports for the year 1827, pages 436, 7, S- I am glad to insert these quotations with the first publication of my own views. A Letter from Dr. Adams, during the last summer, was the first inti- mation I received of his opinion; which, however, had been long advanced in his valuable paper, entitled, “ Cases of Diseases of the Heart, with Patho- logical Observations.” I may be permitted to state, that Dr. Adams does not assign any cause for the regurgitation, unless it be dilatation of the auriculo-ventricular aperture. He exposes clearly the facts of delay and accumulation in the right ventricle, and the necessity of a reflux.in the Right Ventricle uf the Human Heart. 25 with the yielding wall of the ventricle, constitutes the main peculiarity of arrangement and action in the tricuspid valve ; the great extent, thinness, and feebleness of the yielding wall rendering it liable to the distending influence of venous accumulation in various degrees; the curtains being three, and each one being tethered to that part of the ventricular paries immediately beneath itself (but most extensively to the yielding wall), by the intervention of columns, whose passive effect is to produce a retraction of the curtains in proportion to the distention, and whose active contractions serve, under dilatation, to augment the valvular retraction, or rather to maintain it at its height during the imperfect systole. The number, extent, and power of the columns of distention are therefore of great importance to this function, as well as the natural limited extent of the tricuspid curtains. And further, the orifice itself, depending upon the yielding wall, may admit of some relaxation, and thus assist to produce regurgitation. The anatomical demonstration of all these structural peculiarities is sufficiently easy and plain, and the experi- mental proofs of their necessary effects seem to be equally forcible; whilst the extensive application of the facts appears to be of the highest importance in the physiological and pathological considerations of the circulation. Experiments illustrating the Operation of the Safety-Valve. Taking a human heart from a body dead within about 24 hours, and in which I could discover no material morbid change of form or substance, I proceeded to remove por- tions of the sigmoid or semilunar valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and to fix tubes into these vessels, with a view to inject the ventricles. I next cut away a large part of the auricles, so as widely to expose tlieir communi- cations with tlie ventricles: and now, upon injecting the left ventricle through the aorta, the mitral valve became at once firmly closed, and, as seen through the auricle, pre- sented very much indeed the appearance of a continued suture, with a slight prominence or tense bulging sac on either side. The pressure of the syringe and distention of the ventricle being maintained, nothing escaped. Great force was required to disarrange this state, and produce aMr. King on the Safety-Valve Function 26 narrow thready jet. After this, proceeding to the injection of the pulmonary artery in the same manner, and slowly filling the right ventricle, it was quite impossible to produce a similar effect. No position in or out of water, no degree of gentleness or force, no state in anywise natural to the organ that I was able to induce, would prevent a conside- rable ribband-like stream of regurgitation between the ill- apposed edges of the valve. Independent of earlier and less careful attempts, I per- formed the same experiment, with various modifications, upon at least ten or eleven different adult hearts, and all of them seemingly healthy. The result invariably tended to the one uniform conclusion. I shall, however, before advancing, advert to several cir- cumstances of deviation, that occurred in the different repe- titions of this first experiment. The bicuspid valve has occasionally been somewhat less perfect than is described above. In some of the hearts ex- perimented on, it has allowed one fine jet of regurgitation, or even two—in consequence, as it might seem, of some original imperfection; since it resulted alike from a slight and a considerable distending force: and I have seen the same result in other experiments, performed upon valves that were evidently unsound ; as, for example, opaque, thickened, and uneven. The same effect, also, has been produced, when the left ventricle was moderately distended, by pressing on its surface, in such a manner, and at such a point, as to relax some of the tendinous cords. To render the experiment on the mitral valve most strik- ingly characteristic, the coronary arteries should be secured with ligatures, and a stop-cock employed. With these pre- cautions, the auricle being laid freely open, the ventricle may be distended, until it becomes quite full and hard, and the tumid auricular surface of the valve resists considerable pressure of the fingers. After closing the communication at the aorta, tliis turgid fulness of the ventricle will persist, for a long time. Whilst examining,the right side of the heart in the pre- ceding experiments, the only possible means of obtaining a nice though weak adjustment of the tricuspid curtains was,27 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. to compress the ventricle, and by the same means to lessen the extent of the valvular aperture. Without this unnatu- ral influence, before the ventricle became full by slowly in- jecting it, the fluid escaped, by regurgitation, into the auricle: indeed, I have seen, on several occasions, in hearts perfectly healthy (setting aside the simple congestive ful- ness of death), that the acting tricuspid valve presented an angular aperture, nearly equal in area to that of the pul- monary artery. I infer, that, in the experiments of which I am now speaking, the right side of the heart had been in most cases somewhat too full of blood, and certainly in no case was it greatly contracted; consequently, the results, and the explanations deduced, are most applicable to the living ventricle, when in a state of undue fulness. Whilst the injection of the right ventricle is slowly pro- ceeding, every thing being arranged to free the cavity from all other extraneous influence, the curtains are seen to ex- tend themselves, and incline towards each other and the plane of the opening; and the reflux continues excessive, until they approach one another, to a certain degree, by the pressure of the fluid accumulating behind them: and often, with the continuance of the injection, the stream attains the form of a band from one to eight inches in height, of greater or smaller size, probably depending upon the degree of actual fulness of the cavity during the last moments of life. Here I may observe, that the action of the larger muscu- lar columns is wanting, the curtains are seen extended well across the opening and almost meeting, and it is not possi- ble to imagine that the columns could do any thing to favour a nicer adaptation; but it is very easy to understand, that if the valves should be accurately adjusted, the contraction of the columns, concurring with and being nearly equal to the systole, would retain the curtains in their true valvular position, and thus compensate for the falling in of the wall, which alone might tend to make the curtains flow back fur- ther than is consistent with their peculiar object: and, on the other hand, if the effects of dilatation prevail, we must see, that while the systole tends to restore the true valve, the accompanying contraction of the columns serves to28 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function counteract the contraction of the wall, and to maintain the safety-valve. Having entertained the idea, that the state of the left ven- tricle might affect the function of the right valve, I contrived, by the help of the stop-cock, to retain the left ventricle in a state of distention; hut this did not seem to produce any alteration, in the result of experiments, on the right. I have already noticed the more direct and scattered in- sertions of the tendinous cords into the tricuspid curtains, affording them an uniform support, when the three unite, by their margins, to form one oval layer in the plane of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The varying lengths of the cords are likewise adapted to this effect; and these few scattered and, as it were, additional attachments of the cords fiave a tendency, when the valve is in operation, to render its aurieular surface both pitted and nodular. It will naturally strike the physiologist, who may be in- duced, in opposition to a settled opinion, to give any atten- tion to these statements, that conclusive expei’iments can only be made upon the living heart*; and I have not been unmindful of the force of such an opinion. I have twice had an opportunity of experimenting on the human heart at the earliest period that propriety could admit of. In one of these cases (of which I have not hitherto spoken), after performing the experiment and eliciting results similar to those related, the heart was set aside, with the expectation that its tonicity would gi’adually contract the ventricles and fleshy pillars; which accordingly occurred. The first trial of this heart was made with warm water; and the fluid was thrown in, at first gently, and afterwards pretty forcibly; but the regurgitation at this time was always con- siderable. Now, upon repeating the experiment on the same heart, when contracted after the lapse of a few hours, the tricuspid valve was found to be much less incomplete: still, * There is, notwithstanding, one very powerful reason for concluding in favour of the experiment upon the heart some hours after death. For if the tonic contraction of the heart has not been able to effect the condition necessary to a true valvular action, what was to have been expected during life ? Those will best understand this view, who have examined the soft and flaccid ventricle, during the intervals, and upon the cessation of its con- tractions.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 29 in this case there was some refluent stream. In the second case, however, under precisely similar circumstances, I ob- tained, at last, an almost perfect valvular action: though even this could not be maintained for half a minute without re- nevving the injection, as it continually gave out a little stream, which did not exceed that of the least accurate ad- justment of some one or two mitral valves on which I have experimented, regarding them as healthy. This, to me, was an unprecedented instance of true val- vular action in the right side of the human heart; though so feeble was it, that the slightest pressure of the finger was sufficient to displace the curtains. Although I believe what has been described to be strictly true, I am inclined to suppose that, at a certain point of the natural ventricular systole, the action of the tricuspid valve is very nearly complete. On the other hand, I am convinced that, in all cases in which the right ventricle is, in any ma- terial degree, temporarily distended or permanently dilated, the heart and lungs are relieved by a considerable reflux of the ventricle’s contents into the auricle and systemic veins. It is highly deserving of notice, also, that the more accurate closure of the mitral valve seems to have a like necessary reference to the safety of the lungs; the least backward cur- rent in the pulmonary veins being strictly obviated. A very limited acquaintance with disease must set aside all uncertainty with regard to the fatal mischiefs which follow the imperfect operation of the mitral valve. I have ventured to regard the apparatus, which regulates the right auriculo-ventricular aperture of the heart, as a safety-valve, rather than a simple valve; or more properly, as both the one and the other, on diflPerent occasions. Of course, it is impossible to estimate the precise relation and quanti- ties of these two different functions. It may be imagined that the real proportion of reflux is exaggerated in the preceding exposition; and it must certainly vary much in different human hearts, according to their state of contrac- tion, and still more in the hearts of different species of animals ; but whereas a few simple examinations and expe- riments will suffice to establish the conviction of the physio- logist for or against the principle of a safety-valve action, K 2Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function 30 no labour, in the present state of science, probably, would enable us to attain a knowledge of the exact degrees of reflux by this incomplete valve. With respect to the operation of the tricuspid valve in the living man, it will be difficult to furnish more satisfactory data than have been already produced*. A variety of circumstances, however, remain to be stated, in connection with the same kind of experiments performed on the heart in diflFerent states of health and disease; which will be best introduced by reference to particular cases. It is remarkable, that, in post-mortem examinations of the heart, it has not occurred to pathologists to test the action of the valves by means of injection. If it should be ad- vanced, that the test could not be considered as conclusive, it would probably be a sufficient reply, to produce the facts of the widely-varying results: but to do this, beyond a very limited extent, would be inadmissible in this place f. ^ If any one were inclined to infer, that whatever reflnx occurs hy the tricuspid or safety-valve should be manifested by the pulsation of the jugu- lar veins, I would observe, that such is not to be expected as a common result, and for the following reasons: The over-distended ventricle has lost something of its power — the accumulation within it is a material source of increased resistance—the imperfect systole is partly expended in sending blood to the lungs—and the refluent overplus is driven into the capacious auricle, and scarcely less capacious cavee : in which, when any diastole is produced, it should not be very remarkable, and, of course, the dilatation of the superficial jugulars would be less forcible; these vessels being still more remote, and much assisted in transmitting their contents by the forces of gravity and inspiration, and by the play of considerable valves. All these circumstances tend to preserve the circulation of the brain and senses, &c. Most physiologists must be aware how mysteriously the older vivisectors regarded the pulses of the abdominal cava. It is not very difiicult to understand, that when distention has subverted the action of the jugular valves, the refluent pulse becomes so exaggerated as to be both seen and felt. It scarcely needs to be explained, that when, from an increased distention, the jugular valves cease to act, the refluent pulse in the neck is manifest enough. It should, however, be remembered, that a reclining posture and the intervals of inspirations render the pulsation more remarkable. The valves form no obstruction to the filling of the jugulars by injection. •f The great and variable capacity of the venous system, in certain parts of the body, appears to render it peculiarly adapted to the purposes of a reservoir, under circumstances of delay or repletion ; and the deficiency of valves favours this view. It is surprising that physiologists should ever have31 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. I have been accustomed, for some time, to examine the ventricular valves, in the manner described; and I feel at a loss to imagine what kind of pathological history or reason- ing could be credited, relative to the living operation of these parts, without the test of injection. Experiments of this kind, performed upon hearts more or less evidently diseased, produce some results that would lead us to con- clude, that if the theory of a safety-valve in the healthy man be thought groundless, it is still essential to retain some such opinion as to disease; for the very different states in which the right ventricle and its valve are found, in connection (both as to cause and effect) with derangements of conti- nuous parts in the course of the circulation, is already a fruitful subject of investigation. Both the valve of the left and right side may thus be found perfect or imperfect, in an unusual manner, even when we should otherwise be quite unable to decide on their being so, or ready at once to determine differently. The mode of performing the injection has been little varied. Sometimes a longer tube has been carried into the ventricle, in order not to destroy the sigmoid valves. Very frequently the hearts have been placed in water during the experiment, to obviate any unusual pressure : and this is a very convenient method; for the auricles being widely opened, the natural position of the heart serves best to allow have maintained that veins are inelastic. In the dissecting-room, the distinguishing character of a vein is its superior powers of extension and retraction. The longitudinal folds formed by the lining of the empty veins affords a very marked appearance in the leg, especially of the young. To inflate some veins, and then to observe their ready contraction, would convince any one of their elasticity. Other veins, however, as those abotit the spine, possess much less proper elasticity, although they are evidently adapted to receive widely-different quantities of blood. Those in the spinal canal appear to me to be well contrived to become filled when the medullary canal is extended, in the flexions of the trunk, and to let out their contents when the capacity of the elongated cavity is diminished, whether suddenly or not, in resuming the upright posture. This arrangement is still more striking in various inferior animals with flexible spines, and especially in the cetacea. In the seal, a great part of the medulla would appear changed into a slight cauda equina, to make room for those sinuses which occupy at least three- fourths of the canal. A similar formation exists in the porpoise, in front of the medulla; whilst in the seal the sinuses are immediately beneath the arches of the vertebra).32 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function the escape of the refluent fluid, and the adaptation of the valves is the more distinctly seen. The diameter of the tube of the syringe, in all my experiments, has been rather less than the fourth of an inch, and often still smaller; and that of the piston about four inches. The following notes are parts of the histories of post- mortem examinations, which were taken long after the preceding accounts. They are abstracted with a view to illustrate various opinions and results that have been already stated. Some points of anatomical arrangement are re- corded, with a view to explain both the common and unusual circumstances, as well as to shew what parts most require notice. Remarks are added to some, for the sake of illustra- ting certain effects and peculiarities, which appear to me of essential consequence. In each case, the most fatal and important features of disease are subjoined, in order to shew the nature of the death. I have considered the hearts to be quite healthy, whenever it is not otherwise stated. On the 10th of December, 1835, I made an examination that afforded a remarkable instance of simple distention of the right ventricle from pulmonary obstruction, in a female aged 20. Within three weeks, a chronic pleuritis was fol- lowed by acute inflammatory effusions, both fluid and solid, and in great quantity on the right side of the chest. The lung here was reduced and airless; but its large vessels, as well as those of the left lung, were full of dark blood. The left ventricle seemed rather small, and was empty and contracted, but not very firm: its auricle contained a few drams of coagulating blood. The right side of the heart was immensely distended. The right ventricle, large and rounded, seemed actually capable of containing the left in its cavity. The pulmonary artery was roundly distended; its dark* contents partially appearing through its coats. Here was no disease of the heart—no room for the in- fluence‘*of pulmonary resilience. The obstructed lung, and the force of the venous afflux, were the causes of the extreme distcntion^of the right ventricle. * Tliis was within six hours of the patient’s death.in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 33 John C , of middle age: examined six hours after death. The right ventricle, especially towards the pulmonary artery, was considerably distended: the tricuspid gave considerable reflux (upon injecting warm water by the pulmonary artery); the parts being warm, and the blood almost entirely fluid. On the following day (the heart being set aside to contract) the valve was still very imperfect; at the same time, the cavity was moderately capacious and thick. The first column of distention had rather a limited moderator hand. A second column of distention was very slender and insignificant, and attached to the solid ivall *. But there was a third column of distention, a good deal con- trolled by the yielding wall. The left ventricle was a powerful and healthy cavity. The general and fatal affections were—Urinary inflam- mations—acute dysentery. The spleen and lungs were also affected. Henry H , aged 26: examined seven hours after death. The heart was excessively distended; even the left side considerably. The tricuspid acted most imperfectly; and the bicuspid was much less accurate and firm than usual. The right ventricle was rather thin, but the left was scarcely so. Besides a slight looseness of the muscular substance, there was no evidence of disease. There was one column of distention, with a long moderator band; and there were two or three other very slight columns. The death of this person was connected mainly with old disease of the knee, leading to amputation seven or eight days before death; and renal disease. William P , aged 24: examined twenty hours after death. The heart was of good size; the right auricle distended, and the ventricle full. The left auricle was rather full, and the ventricle contained but little. The pulmonary artery was full; and bluish, from its transparency. All the valves were healthy in structure. Under experiment, the tricuspid curtains rose into a plane, but their closure * Tliis is quite abiioruial.34 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function was very incomplete in all stages of the injection. The cavity of tlie right ventricle was of moderate extent. The wall was solid, and, in the first evident degree, hypertrophic. There were two considerable columns of distention; both rather short. The first had two limited moderator hands; and the second gave off, from near the base, an oblique band towards the apex of the solid wall. The mitral valve acted with much power and accuracy. It is very difficult to suppose, that with less extent of the right ventricle the tricuspid curtains would not have closed better in this case. The chief morbid circumstances were—Renal anasarca —large spleen—indurated liver—slight pulmonary conges- tion—sudden death, probably from the tumefaction of the glottis. Henry P , aged 51, ill fifteen weeks : examined forty- eight hours after death. The right ventricle contained a very moderate quantity of blood, fibrinous, and firmly coagulated*. The cavity was perhaps somewhat contracted, though by no means small: its parietes were thick. The tricuspid valve admitted rather a considerable regurgitation. There was one large and almost triple column of distention, with a very length- ened moderator band; and there was a smaller column of distention attached near the septum. Some parts of the edges of the tricuspid valve were opaque and thickened, without being indurated or contracted. The left ventricle was strong, and the arteries diseased. The affections which produced death were — Urinary obstructions, and inflammations—phthisis, and arachnitis. The spleen and liver were disordered. The nicest adaptation of these valves can only be under- stood by the observation of them in experiment; but to me, it seems very natural that, in this case, the vital action of the parts might liave been sufficient to render the adjustment of the curtains more accurate, if not close or firm. * The free opening in the auricle readily admits of the removal of these portions of Hbrin.35 in the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. Susan P , aged 23 t examined twenty hours after death. The heart was small, and seemingly wasted. The ven- tricles were, however, firm, and of sufficient thickness, in comparison of the whole : their cavities were of mode- rate size. On injecting, the left valve was strong and perfect: the right appeared to have extensive valve- curtains t yet the injection escaped between them pretty freely. There were two large columns of distention ; each having a rather short bifurcated base, uniting it both to the solid and the yielding wall. This patient was worn out by chronic peritoneal and intestinal disease. As in the foregoing case, I would conclude here, that very little was wanting, to the wide extent of curtains and limited cavity, to effect a true valvular action; and, indeed, a brisk, ventricular systole would probably be propulsive enough, with such a valve. Priscilla W , aged 20: examined five hours after death. The right ventricle was by no means distended ; it was of moderate thickness and capacity. On injection, its valve gave considerable refiux; and with some increase of force, there were two band-like jets, rising two or three inches. On repeating the experiment the following day, the refiux seemed to be somewhat diminished. There was one column of distention, with many cords, and a very limited moderator band. There was a second column of distention, small, and far removed from the solid wall. The left side of the heart, at the time of inspection, was nicely contracted. The chief serious conditions were—Icterus, and acute hepatitis, terminating with coma. In this case, the most favourable operation of the valve was pretty good: the strength and capacity of the ven- tricle, together with the arrangement of the curtains of distention, seconded this effect; and a subsequent diminution of the ventricle improved it. Had the cavity been in a slate of distention, would it not have been otherwise ? i36 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function Joseph N , aged 4o: examined twenty-three hours after death. The heart was involved in firm adhesions. (The right ventricle was large; but the dilatation was chiefly in the direction of the pulmonary artery, and acted less upon the columns of distention: its parietes were greatly thickened. The tricuspid valve acted with unusual accuracy and firm- ness : its curtain was very extensive, and slightly thickened. When acting, it formed a pretty simple plane. There was one column of distention, with a rather short moderator hand; and two other columns planted upon short moderator hands, and very little liable to be affected by distention. The pul- monary artery was capacious, and its valves perfect. The left ventricle was large, and hypertrophic. The bicuspid valve, when tried by injection, was seen to act imperfectly; and its margins were a good deal thickened. The left auricle was capacious, and thick. The fatal circumstances, in addition, were—Bronchitis and haemoptysis—inflamed and tubercular lungs—affected liver, and anasarca. Here are the cireumstances of disease, the action of the right ventricle being too strictly and forcibly propulsive. The hypertrophy of the cavity had resisted the tendency to distention : its strength, with an arrangement of its valve congenitally, very unfavourable to a safety-valve action (and a probable cause of the hypertrophy), must, at least, have aggravated the diseases in the lungs. The state of the left side of the heart was a material cause of obstruction. The dilatation resulted, as I conclude, from the powerful injection from the right ventricle. The mitral valve was weak, in consequence of the ventricular dilatation, and the traction exerted upon its cords. D. E >, aged 42: examined twenty hours after death. The heart was very fat, large, and powerful; the right side rather empty than full. Upon injecting by the pulmo- nary artery, the tricuspid was seen, in the auricle, to form a very uniform plane; and the curtains united neatly, so as to admit only three inconsiderable streams of reflux. This heart being set aside in water, the reflux was certainlyin the Right Ventricle of the Human Heart. 37 diminished when the injection was repeated the next morning. The parietes of the right ventricle were thick, and the cavity of moderate size. There were two large columns of distention ; and the first had a pretty free mode- rator hand. The bicuspid valve under experiment gave back one or two slight jets: its curtains were somewhat thickened, and perhaps contracted. In this case, two or three old chronic vomicae seemed to be the source of haemoptysis, which became suddenly fatal. There were also some liver and renal affections. The remarks relative to the stronger propulsion of the right ventricle, in the case of Joshua N ■, might apply here; but we must not conclude that the cavity was in- capable of dilating, nor that a very moderate distention would not have produced a copious reflux. A greater degree of fulness, or a less complete tonic contraction, might have left a less accurate valve. I trust that I have thus sufficiently explained the theory of a safety-valve, and the importance of the function, as regards the circulation both in health and disease. For the pathologist, however, much more remains to be advanced: but this must be deferred; as it is more important, at the present moment, to produce some other arguments, which may serve to establish and extend these opinions. As a summary of what has been already stated, I trust there is some force in the following deductions: — That the powers of the venous circulation are variable— sometimes great, and occasionally excessive. That the circumstances of repletion and obstructed respi- ration may alike vary in the same manner. That the right ventricle is liable to varying degrees of distention. Lastly, that the tricuspid valve, naturally weak and im- perfect, closes less and less accurately, according to the increasingMegrees of the ventricular distention. The demonstrative evidence of the last inference may pos- sibly be considered as altogether deficient; but I believe38 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve of the Human Heart. that an accurate knowledge of the structures, and the dif- ferent appearances which they assume, in several particular modes of death, will go very far to establish its justness. The striking and curious varieties presented by the same parts in animals, I have supposed to form the most unexcep- tionable and, indeed, astonishing evidence of the opinions here maintained. The examination of the function under consideration, both in the Mammalia and Birds, has been pursued very much after the same manner as in the human subject. I have had very numerous opportunities of examining the hearts of living animals, by injection ; in- stances of which will be occasionally introduced: but the space obliges me to confine myself as closely as possible to the anatomical exposition of the singular gradations of the safety-valve, which I regard as furnishing the most forcible testimony. PLATE I. Fig. 1. Is taken from a Preparation of the Human Heart at birth. It pre- sents, I think, the simplest characters of the tricuspid valve belonging to the species: it is, however, distended, and the yielding wall, natu- rally thick at this period, somewhat reduced. There are two columns of distention: the anterior one has a distinct and rather limited mode- rator hand, whilst the posterior one depends solely on the yielding wall The fixed curtain is concealed. The references are the same as in Diagram 4 and Fig. 2 ; and it will be found, throughout these descriptions, that the same letter indicates the same part. Fig. 2. Represents the Tricuspid Valve in its closed state, as seen in the right auricle. It is not pretended, however, that this is a strict representation^ the appearance being so transitory and varying. The interior of the auricle is naturally delineated; and the valve appears closing against the current which is escaping from the ventricle just becoming filled. The three curtains form one plane, separated by a fissure, which is here and there distinct; for the scantiness of the valve, as well as its arrange- ment of cords, prevents all tendency to the union of the curtains by flat surfaces, as in the mitral valve. The edges only are approximated, the curtains are flat, and scarcely tense. The fissure is shewn in a mean state of closure. The elfect of any degree of distention be- hind the curtains would be to render them more nodular and irre- gular.-Plate 1 niag“'4. '}rawn en. Zinc by C.,i. Ccinhn Tiintni fyi/.l'n'crc. M^icMAc Linf. J} J) . 1 laag I’ubli^lu’d by S. Highly, Fleet St39 DKSCRiPTioN OF PLATE I.—Continued. gular, and to widen the breach. The effect of dilatation—the re- tracted and disturbed curtains, and the widened aperture with a copious reflux—could not possibly be represented in a drawing. C Is the fixed curtain. D 1 The anterior curtain of distention; and, D 2 The posterior. The Diagrams 1, and 2, represent the simple elements of a Safety- Valve. A Is the solid wall of the ventricle. B The yielding wall. C The fixed curtain, and its cords ; represented by a single one, with a mere rudiment of a muscular column for its base. D The column, cord, and curtain of distention. No. 1. shews the appearance of the valve when closing against reflux in the ventricular systole : the edges of the curtains should be- come nicely apposed. No. 2. shews the effect of distention ; the yielding wall carrying out the apparatus of distention by retraction of the column D. Diagram 3. is an outline taken from a transverse section of the heart, about one inch and a half from the apex. It is pretty accurate only as relates to the form of the cavity of the right ventricle, and to its adaptation to the solid wall A. Diagram 5. shews all the essential parts belonging to the Safety Valve in Man. It is a section of the ventricle: shewinsr, A The septum or solid wall. B The right, thin or yielding wall. C The fixed curtain, and its cord (one, instead of many). D, E, & II, The columns of disteiilion. I ; D The. first very long; and connected with F The moderator hand. pj The second, secured to the outer yielding wall. II The third, still more remote from the moderator band, less con- stant in its appearance, and smaller, but connected very much as the preceding. Ihe effect of distention is also seen; the yielding wall having fallen outwards, and produced a retraction of the columns, cords, and nirtains of distention.( 40 ) Part II.—OF THE SAFETY-VALVE IN THE MAMMALIA. A GENERAL ANATOMICAL ACCOUNT OF THE VALVULAR APPARATUS, AND THE PRINCIPLE OF ITS GRADATION. I have felt assured, that the experiments which I have per- formed warrant the assumption of a safety-valve action of the tricuspid valve in most mammalia — an action de- pendent upon the arrangement of the parts which, in the foregoing sections, have been called the curtains, cords, and columns of distention*that is-to say, upon the attachments which the valve has towards the yielding wall of the ven- tricle ; and in explanation of this conclusion, I proceed to shew, that we find these same attachments very various in different animals,—^many, or few, or none, according to the following principle. There exists, in the several orders, a moderator hand, or cylindrical cord, of greater or less importance, traversing the cavity of the right ventricle, from near the centre of the septum to the opposite point of the yielding wall. This hand, which is generally considerable, seems of some use, as I have already explained, to moderate the degree of healthy dilatation ; and it is found to be mainly connected with the columns of distention, which are attached about either of its extremities, or intermediately, as the case may be. The curtains of distention, by means of their cords and columns, are attached, in one case, to the left extremity of the mode- rator hand, and into the solid wall: in a second case, they are secured to the middle part of the hand, between the two walls: and in a third case, their attachments are into the yielding wall, at or near the yielding end of the moderator hand. (See Pi. 2. Diagr. 1.) It will be evident, that, in proportion as the columns of distention are attached close to the solid wall, they must be the less influenced by the yielding of the outer wall: and, * In seeking to describe succinctly the operation of unnamed parts, there has been no choice, but to name them ; which I have ventured to do, in accordance with the principle to be maintained. The nomenclature, how- ever, in the case of man, is too simple to be complained of; but as the function, and its appropriate organs, are gradational in animals, it must be expected that the terms will be more or less justly applicable, as the degree of the function may happen to be great or small in any particular case.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 41 on the contrary, it must he sufficiently apparent, that the more the columns of distention are secured away from the solid wall, and near to the yielding ivall, so much the more is the influence of distention left to operate freely in dis- placing the valves, and producing, reflux. Fftst, then, in certain instances it is found that the curtain of distention, or all that portion of valve attached to the outer edge of the right auriculo-ventricular foramen, is secured by numerous cords attached about its floating edge ; and that these cords are collected into the summits of two or more muscular columns, which are inserted into the solid wall, and therefore totally unafiected by any dis- placement of the outer wall. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Column 1; and Fig. 1.) In the second place, or stage of progressive develop- ment, we may suppose the columns of distention inserted into the transverse moderator band, near the solid wall: in winch case, they can be but slightly affected by the move- ments of the yielding wall. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 2. & Fig. 2.) Thirdly, the columns are inserted into the same band, at a greater distance from the solid wall; and consequently more subject to the influence of distention ; which, acting on the yielding wall, extends the moderator hand, and carries out the apparatus of distention. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 3: and PI. 1. Fig. 1.) Lastly, the columns of distention are inserted into the yielding wall, at or beyond the corresponding attachment of the moderator hand: in which case, the results of distention are still more considerable. (See PI. 2. Diagr. 1. Col. 4 ; & Fig. 3.) The healthy dilatation of the right ventricle must of course result from the limited strength of the yielding wall: and it is necessary here to remark, that the thickness of this part (most fairly estimated by comparison with the left) seems to vary considerably, both in quadrupeds and birds. Other elements of an imperfect or safety-valve, which have been distinguished in the human heart, are also found to perform their part in the general animal series; namely, the form of the columns, the proportional extent of curtain, and the yielding nature of the auriculo-ventricular foramen, whose resistance, in all probability, is in equal proportion to that of the yielding wall.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammaliu. 42 Some notice of these peculiarities must necessarily be introduced, as they occur in the successive grades. Ac- cording to the most remarkable varieties of safety-valve for- mation, the Mammalia may be arranged in four separate, but successive series. Perhaps the animals with divided ven- tricles, or bifid hearts, should form a fifth series. First Series.—I have said, that the columns of distention may be inserted into the solid wall*, more or less remote from the moderator hand, whose office here appears to be of little consequence; and the band is therefore very slight, or it merges almost imperceptibly into the union of the two walls anteriorly. With the above arrangement, as experi- ment will shew, the valve does not always act closely, unless the ventricle be in some degree contracted; for the natural distention, quite independent of any force in experiment, may slightly enlarge the tricuspid foramen, and thus disturb the valve, chiefly by reason of the scantiness of its curtains \ but there is no displacement of the columns of distention. The safety-valve action is at its lowest point, though not, I presume, totally obviated; so that the general terms which have been employed may still apply, but at their lowest value. This arrangement I have found to belong to most rodent, canine, and marsupial animals, and likewise to some others allied to them; but even this is varied so gradually, as to present a succession of stages, inclining to the more distinct form of a safety-valve adjustment. I have selected one form; which may serve to characterize the series, and at the same time assist to explain its vari- ations : it is from the hare f. In the hearts of this series, the columns of distention are usually more than two, and often as many as four, in number; and they increase in size from behind, forwards; the poste- rior being comparatively insignificant. It is the anterior, or larger one, whose variations are chiefly remarkable J. The valve here, and in many hearts of the succeeding * As column 1, in Diagr. 1. PI. 2. f See Fig. 1. PI- 2. with its description. + A still more anterior attachment of one cord can scarcely be considered a column. See Fig. 1. PI. 2.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 43 series, will not strictly admit the application of the term ‘tricuspid’; since there is a little cuspid process, or cur- tain, between each two adjoining columns. The anterior column appears, in this series, to increase in size, nearly in the same ratio as the remainder decrease in number and importance. Its precise relative dimensions, together with the nature of its connection to the moderator band, are all the particulars here requiring attention. It will be seen, that in the hare all the columns of dis- tention are planted on the solid wall; but it is necessary particularly to observe the attachment of the anterior column distinctly above the thin moderator band*. Now, in some other animals the moderator band is still less in size, and still more remote; until, perhaps, it altoge- ther disappears t- But, on the other hand, tracing the series in the opposite direction, we see the moderator band rising to be inserted into the base (as at F), and even above the base of the anterior column of distention (as at/).J And, still farther on in the succession of gradations, the moderator band (or rather cord) has an insertion low down into the body of the column, and subsequently into the solid wall%: at the same time, we may perceive that the column is much increased in extent, which must give it a material in- fluence over the curtain of distention, during its contraction. In classing the animals after their several proportions of safety-valve construction, the following is the order in which I should arrange this first series ; including only the animals whose hearts I have been able to examine at least once, and for the most part oftener ||. In the rat, the columns of distention are three or four; and the moderator band is a mere film, and very remote. In the rabbit, the parts are the same ; but perhaps the rudimentary band is proportionally somewhat more distinct. Next in order is the hare, as already described. Then follow together the kangaroo, the little bush kan- * See Fig. 1. PI. 2 ; and Diagr. 3. PI. 2. t See Diagr. 2. PI. 2. $ See Diagr. 4. PI. 2. § See Diagr. 5. PI. 2. II Specimens of almost all the instances adduced will be found, either in the Collection of the Zoological Society, or in that of Guy’s Hospital. A little series is also in progress of preparation for the College of Surgeons, at the request of Professor Owen, the distinguished Curator of the Hunterian Museum.Mr. King on the Sofety-Valve in Mammalia. 44 garoo, and the opossum*, all of which have apparently three columns of distention; and of these, the anterior has an increased relative size, at least in the two first animals. Their moderator hand is a cord inserted into the very base of the column, and is double at its external attachment. The bear has a construction like the preceding: its columns are three or four, and the anterior is larger. The moderator hand is a slight cord, divided externally, but inserted into the column immediately above its basef. The dog’s heart is very little in advance of the last in the scale; and that of the fox is probably even less so. In an Australian dog, I found the anterior column divided at its base into two equal insertions; one of which was on the yielding wall, and was peculiarly remarkable for the traction which had manifestly been exerted upon it by an old and partial pericarditic adhesion | at this point. In another dog§, the second column was found bifurcated, and attached in a similar manner. Both these circumstances are probably very unusual I]. The squirrel and Guinea-pig plainly belong to this series ; but it is not easy to determine their place. Likewise the porcupine; but in this case, the two chief columns of disten- tion, or the first only, may be met with in a degree of evolution almost equal to that of the succeeding series. The mole, the stoat, and the ichneumon, seem to form the last of this series, closely approaching those of the next, in the structures under investigation. In their hearts, the an- terior column of distention is long, extending to near the limits of the cavity. The moderator hand (a cord only) is attached to its body and both walls of the ventricle^: the second column seems advancing towards a similar development. Of these, the ichneumon appears to possess the more de- veloped columns. The hedgehog much resembles these, with respect to the structure in question. * Didelphis Vulpina. -|- See Diagram 4. PI. 2. f. :j: A patch of pericarditic thickening on this spot is found in a majority of human adult hearts : it seems to be a part peculiarly liable to distention and attrition. § A Spaniel.—Two greyhounds (male and female) presented hearts pe- culiar only for great massiveness. II In both of these, experiment shewed the valve to act very imperfectly: in the first, some days after death ; and in the second, whilst still alive. See Diagram 5. PI. 2.45 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. With regard to these, and all the succeeding series, I may observe, that many gradations must remain to be supplied; and the whole will require correcting, as well as enlarging. Possibly a long period of confinement, and limited diet, may affect the development or appearance of the columns. In experimenting upon the hearts of this series, as well immediately after death as at later periods, I have, for the most part, made use of the largest animals that could easily be obtained; and I have not been inattentive to observe and vary their state of repletion, and also the general mus- cular efforts. Upon making the injections, as formerly described, the result has been very various: and although the valve has often been seen to close neatly, and indeed firmly*, yet the quantity of reflux which has been noticed in some other cases has been rather a matter of astonishment. It has, how- ever, never amounted to the copious regurgitation which I shall have to describe hereafter. Second Series.—In the hearts of a second series of animals, the anterior column of distention is of full size, reaching to the extremity of the yielding wall; and the moderator hand is considerably developed, particularly in the most-advanced grades; and in some we see, moreover, the second column of distention following the same course of development. (See Diagr. 6. PI. 2.) The appearance of a moderator hand, in relation with this second column, rarely seems to become very significant, or deserving of attention f. A third column is usually found, but it is of small size: thus the curtains are more liable to displacement, by reason of the extent of the columns, and * Blumenbach observes, that sometimes the right heart ceases to beat before the left, particularly in rabbits. This I conclude is the effect of the ventricle s attempt to contract, when full, and unable to expel its contents in either direction. The existence of some degree of reflux with the disten- tion is the only cause I could assign for the longer continuance of motion m the right heart. I have found it easy to stimulate the left ventricle, when dying; and to renew its motions, by distending it with fluid. ■f" In ruminant animals, the moderalor band having attained a great de- velopment, will be seen to decline through several degrees, as if less and less needful to the great column of distenlion which these animals possess. The same process probably occurs with regard to the liberation of the second column of distenlion, wherever it exists. Its moderator band, never very prominent, is less and less required, and fades away altogether. 1.2Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 46 their insertion occasionally into the yielding wall, together with their increased freedom from the .solid wall, and aug- mented subjection to the movements of the yielding wall, through their connection with the moderator hand. .All this is superadded to the actual imperfection of the valve, or the yielding nature of its opening*. The feline animals seem to be the first in this series. The cat has one considerable column of distention, based near the yielding wall, and traversed by the moderator hand, wliich adheres to it, and confines it within a short range of the solid wall-ic. In the same animal, I have seen the second column also inclining to this disposition. The valve of the gennet cat strictly resembles that of our domestic animal. In the yaguarundi, the anterior column is perhaps still more confined. The burrowing marsupial wombat seems to be analogous to these last, rather than to the kangaroos, as relates to its safety-valve. The ocelot offers one increased degree of enlargement of the moderator hand, and freedom of the anterior column, without any other visible alteration. The leopard has the anterior column still more free; and the second column is lengthened, and a good deal more free than the corresponding pillar in the preceding animals, as if loosening itself from the solid wall. (See columns 1 and 2. Diagr. 6. PI. 2.) The lemur ]: probably belongs to this series: its first column has, however, less freedom even than that of the cat, the moderator hand being, externally, very slight; but the second column is considerable, and seems almost exclusively to belong to the yielding wall. EXPERIMENTS. A nearly full-grown cat, having expired two days pre- viously in convulsions, without any assignable cause, its heart was found apparently healthy: the right side was not full, but less contracted than the left. On injecting this heart from the aorta and pulmonary arteiy, the mitral valve closed firmly; and the tricuspid admitted a very free refluent stream, without any force. * See column 2. Diagram 1. PI. 2 ; and Fig. 2. PI. 2. f As column 2. Diagram 1. PI. 2. ^ J I'lie individual was not known. IMr. King on the Snfety-Volve in Mammalia. 47 On removing a large and vigorous cat’s heart as quickly as possible after pithing the animal, warm water was injected, or rather poured by the arteries into the ventricles, in suc- cession, with a pressure of a column not exceeding four or five inches in heifflit. The effect was the same as in the O preceding trial, except tliat the regurgitation on the right side was still greater. This experiment was repeated sub- sequently, with the same results, but with the additional trial of the triple valve, during the progress of the tonic contraction of the heart, at intervals; and it was shewn, that not until the rigidity was nearly complete did the cur- tains close with precision. A rather small and young cat had been without food for twenty-four hours, when it was pithed, and the heart im- mediately exposed. It ^was found beating, but unusually empty. On removing it, the right ventricle was injected with warm water to a considerable degree of fulness, and the valve was seen to close with much nicety, but gave a distinct jet of reflux with the systole ; and there were three of these in succession, without any renewal of the contents by injection. The third was very slight, and the contrac- tions were continued very faintly, without reflux. All these experiments, as well as those on the human heart, might admit of minuter detail; but it is impossible, even for one accustomed to physiological experiment, to form an adequate idea of the play of these delicate valves, without witnessing it. Every endeavour in varying the degrees of force, or rather gentleness, and position, serves to prove the nicety of arrangement, and its liability to dis- turbance. I have been compelled to omit, amongst other accounts, those frequent instances in which the hearts of these two first series were found possessing a nicely closing tricuspid. Third Series.—In pursuing these gradations of valvular development from the one last named, that of the lemur, we should perhaps rank next all the genera of Quadrumana; but the varieties which their tricuspid valves present are too considerable to admit of decided arrangement in this place. Some may probably require to be classed amidst the preceding series; and others may claim a place (accordingMr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 48 to the amount of their safety-valve action) even beyond that of the human; which, for the present, is placed imme- diately after them, Man and the Quadrumana forming a distinct third series*. After studying the structure in many quadrumana, I find it impossible at present to distinguish, in a satisfactory man- ner, the differences which it assumes in them. The thick- ness and capacity of their right ventricle differ much. The moderator band is visibly and progressively coming forward. The columns of distention are about three in number; but the two anterior of them only are considerable, and more or less inclined to the yielding wall. The variations t which the columns present in different genera, and perhaps even in different species, with regard to length, size, and freedom from the solid wall, form a little set of transitions of consi- derable interest for future inquiry. The parts in the orang satyrusj may serve, perhaps, as a specimen of the medium characteristics of the valve in these varied tribes of animals. The tricuspid valve of the chimpansee is rather more like the structure in man; and, if we may judge from the extent of its anterior column of distention and moderator hand, it will be found to possess a degree of safety-valve action exceeding that of the human heart. Both these simias have their right ventricles capacious and thin; but that of the last appears strong. The next gradation, in an advancing series, would proba- bly be occupied by the human valve; the account of which has been already given §: but to decide on the precise place which each species of animals may claim, will requii’e a very lengthened experience; and, moreover, there often appear to be other intentions or objects to be answ^ered in the arrangement of the tricuspid curtains; as, for instance, whilst one animal may possess a greater extent of safety- * As represented by the column 3. Diagram 1. PI. 2. -}• It has been explained that the human valves differ somewhat; and the same occurs in different individuals of any species, which much increases the difficulty of constructing a scale. J Simia S. § For the simplest form of the human valve, I refer to the little typical specimen, represented Fig. 1. PI. 1; which may also answer, though not strictly, for the formation in the chimpansee.49 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. valve function, I strongly presume, that, in others, as in man, there will be found a much more delicately-acting valve—one more susceptible of displacement, though inca- pable of admitting the greatest degrees of reflux. At this point, I am again desirous to call attention to the fact, wliich I formerly more fully exposed, that the human heart, subsequent to birth, follows the gradations hitherto described. The gradual wasting (so to speak) and dilatation of the right ventricle slowly withdraw the columns of disten- tion from the vicinity of the solid wall. These gradations are also habitually imitated in the varying physiological conditions of distention or contraction: the expansion may even exceed the natural state, when the still greater degrees of reflux carry on the analogy between this—a state of disease—and the natural condition of those animals which follow in the scale of tliis function. Fourth Series*.—A fourth series of animals is found, in which a valve of a truly tricuspid form is commonly seen ; and in which, for the most part, one large column of disten- tion is implanted into the outer wall, and generally with a long and free moderator band. But all these parts, in the fourth series, are subject to considerable progressive changes. The curtains, which, in their simplest form, begin to resem- ble the crescents of birds, may, on the one hand, shew a tendency to the bicuspid form; or, on the other, the number of divisions may be found increasing. The column of distention may be of good length, or short; and in the extreme case, the cords of distention, from 6 to 12 in number, appear actually to have insertion into the yielding wall (being as it were sessile). In this case, the curtains are uncontrolled by any proper muscle. It is not, I think, to be supposed, that here the columns of distention (as such) are diminishing in number or importance, but rather the contrary; for the single column is more properly the union of a number varying between two and six or seven; and this union cannot interfere with the direct out- ward traction of each one, since the column t is now become * Seo column 4. in Diagram 1. PI. 2 ; and Fig. 3. PI. 2. t Where it is developed. See Fig. 3. PI. 2.50 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. a little wall, parallel to the inner face of the yielding wall, and having the cords inserted into its upper edge. This edge consists of a little chain of nipples—the disunited summits of two or more columns, each drawing outwards in nearly an equal degree. The most remarkable form of a moderator hand is that in which this part is inserted close before the base of the com- j)ound column of distention; the opposite attachment being beneath the most anterior of the fixed cords on the solid wall In this case, the hand is muscular and cylindrical, but long and slight. It is very yielding, and seems to possess a peculiar elasticity. It is already declining in efficiency. It is evident that it can least control the more posterior parts of the column of distention. In the transition through which the band may be traced in this series of animals, it either gradually wastes, or slowly removes itself; and becomes more short and muscular, till it is nearly lost in the anterior and inferior junction of the two walls *. Now here, where the simple effect of distention is greatest, the moderator hand is ceasing to have any distinct office; and thus we found it circumstanced in the first gradations, where the columns of distention were immoveable, and the moderator hand a mere thread. I have taken the parts in the sheep and goat as typical of the present series. See Fig. 3. PI. 2. The column of distention has, perhaps, a greater propor- tional development, as to width, in the first; the cords, as well as the original number of pillars (now united), being increased; and also, as I presume, the liability to valvular displacement. The gazelle resembles the goat; but its moderator hand is manifestly leaving the column of distention. With it are the harnessed antelope and axis-deer, according to my specimens. The rein-deer possesses the compound column of distention in the greatest development, in breadth as well as in the number of cords and muscular points or nipples; but its moderator band has its insertion still more inferiorly than in the gazelle. The ox has for a column of distention a short kind of mastoid process, over which the cords have scattered * In describing the relative position of parts, I have generally regarded their analogy to the human structures.51 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. insertions ; and both the horse and ass* possess a little pro- minent column^. .In all these, the moderator hand is placed low, and very much as in the gazelle ; and it is, for the most part, scarcely muscular, but long, slight, and yielding ; and often almost disappearing, as it were by atrophy. Some- times there are two thread-like cords only. On occasions, however, the band might appear to be of importance, being of great thickness and moderate length; but then it is placed farther distant from the column ; and, as I have found it attended with an unusual degree of hypertrophy in the cavity, and elongation of the column, I regard it as a part of a congenital excess of power in this cavity altogether. Under all circumstances, it appears only as an exception!. The valve of the pig much resembles that of the sheep; but the cords and points in the compound column of disten- tion, as well as the moderator hand, are somewhat less considerable. The cavity seems capable of much enlarge- ment. The lama and camel present very interesting gradations. The first has a bifid column of distention, with pretty nu- merous cords; which seems to explain the opinion, that the broad column is formed by the aggregation of several parallel pillars; as if a succession of single columns left the solid wall, posteriorly, to augment the breadth and traction of the compound column in several different degrees or gradations. Here, and in many of these animals, the most posterior of the fixed cords are beginning to have a distinct muscular column. In the lama, also, the moderator hand is muscular, and of good size, but very unfavourably placed to affect the column of distention: it is very near to the * I found the proportion very similar in two zebra’s hearts likewise. •f" In the heart of one of the asses that were examined, the tricuspid seemed to have rather an unusual formation. The ordinary column of disten- Hon was of moderate size, and its moderator band was narrow and shortish. There was a second, and still considerable column of distention, pretty close behind the first. The most posterior of the fixed cords were, as usual, planted upon a considerable column. This was in an animal about six months old, which was killed with doses of prussic acid. About twenty minutes after its death, the tricuspid did not admit of reflux. $ The excessive development of the moderator band has been noticed in the horse, by Sir Astley Cooper. I have seen it but once. Once, also, in the diseased heart of a woman, I met with it.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. 52 anterior union of the two walls. In the length of its column, and the remoteness of its moderator hand, the camel would appear to stand about midway between the rein-deer and the lama; at least, if I may judge from a single, and not a very favourable specimen*. According to its valvular formation, the seal requires a place among the fourth series of the Mammalia. It has a moderator hand of rather less efficiency than that of the lama, but its compound column of distention may be said to be triple. It is large, irregular, much divided, furnished with many cords, short, and based upon a thin and cellular wall. The posterior fixed cords possess a considerably muscular column. The cavity admits of much extension. This animal has some slight tendency to a division of the ventricles in the form of a bifid apex; and seems to be allied by this, as well as by its habits, to those warm-blooded and respiring aquatic animals, in whom the separation of the ventricles is more distinct, as in the porpoise, and still more in certain other cetacea. Now we may fairly infer, that the object of a bifid heart, in these animals which remain long under water, is one of some unportance (See Fig. 4. PI. 2. and Diagr. 7). The following are some of the facts, in con- nection with the arrangement which is peculiar to them. The usual apparatus of distention, and the yielding wall, are con- structed after a plan wliich has been formerly described in the account of the third series. A great extent of the wall being thin and spongy, the common columns of distention are very similar, in number, site, and force, to those of. the human heart: probably, however, the facility and extent of displace- ment are greater in the present case. We have now to add, that the yielding wall is prolonged to the point of bifurcation, and includes the apex of the ventricle;—that the solid wall, as it has hitherto been called, with respect to the right ven- tricle, is here becoming, or giving place to, a thin and yielding wall. Moreover, the inner (left) portion of the * The right ventricle of the giraffe possesses a valve of a very simple tricuspid form. The single column of distention is of little width, conical, and somewhat lengthened. Its cords seem few, and little scattered on the summit. The moderator band, long, and of inconsiderable thickness, is placed nearer the single column than in the lama and cuincl. One posterior fi.\ed column is considerable.53 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. tricuspid valve, formerly spoken of as fixed, is becoming liable to the effects of distention; for its muscular columns, now increased in extent and power, cease to be attached, near the base of the heart, into the solid wall, and are continued, beyond the division of the ventricles, into the apex; that is, into the thin, separated, and more yielding part of the ventricular paries. These may be called acces- sory columns of distention, both from their muscularity and connection. The seal affords only the early traces of this conformation ; but in the porpoise the gradation is conside- rably advanced: so that whatever value may be allowed for the terms here employed, or for the explanations adduced, such is indisputably the progressive development of the anatomical character of these parts, throughout the class Mammalia. I have had no opportunity of examining more divided hearts than that of the porpoise; but I cannot doubt that their structure follows the plan here indicated by the train of analogies. (See Diagr. 7. PI. 2. and the description.) Tlie experimental test on which I desire to repose the whole truth of these opinions is, the comparison, by in- jection, of the right valves in animals of different grades; as, the dog and sheep, before the pulsations have ceased. The great and manifest imperfection of the sheep’s valve, which will every now and then be found, must be convincing. Having concluded that the reflux function is greatest in the last, or fourth series of animals, it may justly be ex- pected that the experimental proofs shall here be the more satisfactory*. And here, also, we shall find the most marked appearances in the general animal frame, which serve to corroborate the view of temporary venous delay and accu- mulation ; as might indeed be anticipated from casual traces displayed in animals included in the earlier series, as well as * During the autumn of 1835, on producing a series of these preparations, both human and comparative, before M. H.Cloquet, illustrating the view of a reflux action under distention, I had the gratification of gaining a very satis- factory assent to these opinions from that distinguished anatomist. In order to carry conviction, it seemed enough to set together the three facts, that the valve is naturally imperfect or feeble, that the ventricle is liable to dis- tention, and that the valve of distention is manifestly dependent on the situation of the outer wall.Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. 54 in the grades which remain to be successively considered of the class Aves. I can only allude to the progressive deve- lopment of a dilatable pulmonary artery up to this series, and also of venous reservoirs: amongst the last, I rank the innumerable superficial veins of the horse; the elastic reti- cular spleen of herbivorous animals ; the multitude of tor- tuous internal veins of the divers, with the sinuses around the spine and the cell in the liver, which is sometimes larger than the entire heart*. EXPERIMENTS. A sheep was stuck in the usual manner; and, fifteen minutes after, its heart was removed, having scarcely ceased to palpitate. The substance was loose, and the cavity wide. On injecting by the pulmonary artery, the curtains approached each other in a plane; but were very much separated, leav- ing an aperture nearly equal in extent to the disc of a shilling. The moderator hand was about sixteen lines in length, and capable of much greater extension. The heart, at the end of an hour, had so contracted, that its tricuspid valve, when the ventricle was filled, closed neatly, and only admitted three or four thready jets. I infer that some accumulation in the act of dying had distended the cavity. In another animal, twenty-five minutes after it had been stuck, the heart was more than half contracted, and very firmf. Upon injecting, the curtains closed, and formed a * These last statements are supported by Preparations now placed in the Collection of Guy’s Hospital. The accounts that have been given of the veins of diving animals seem only to require the idea of an arrested pulmo- nary circulation to explain the intention of these reservoirs.— See a Paper on the Peculiarities of the Circulating Organs in Diving Animals, by Dr. Houston ; read before the Medical Section of the British Association in Dublin (1835). With reference to the venous system only, the Doctor seems to prove, that the right ventricle fails to propel its blood : and the in- ference which we may safely make, is, that it either contracts on a refluent stream, or it does not contract at all. Not only do we find passive venous reservoirs for delay, but also copious contractile arterial reservoirs, both for general and local supplies of blood during the delay in the lungs. The Museum of Guy’s also affords speci- mens of these. + It happens very constantly, in opening living animals in all respects healthy, that the firmness of the heart is found to vary greatly, as well as the time at which it assumes its tonic contraction.Mr. King on the Safely- Valve in Mammalia. 55 valve of considerable strength, with but one slight colum- nar jet*. A goat, fattened for slaughter, was struck three smart blows on the head, and the chest laid open in about three minutes; the respirations having scarcely ceased. The heart distended the pericardium, and was beating feebly. It was immediately cut out. Its substance was loose, and the right ventricle very wide. The long pipe of a syringe was inserted at once into the pulmonary artery; but the tri- cuspid curtains at this time were not equal to closing more than one half of their aperture; the bicuspid acted perfectly- Cold water was injected. At the end of twenty minutes, the right valve was but a little more perfect: after ten minutes more, its closure only transmitted two very broad bands of reflux f. The heart of a pig has only been experimented on in a state of semi-contraction, as it seemed; and in this case, the right valve acted with tolerable precision. A male gazelle had been dead three or four days. The heart was very full of fibrinous blood. Under injection, the * I have several times performed parallel experiments to these last, on the hearts of sheep, at different periods after their last pulsations ; and the con- sequences have always been very similar. The probability is, that the tri- cuspid valve in sheep has an exceedingly incomplete function as a valve; since, in the yet living heart, the simple pouring in of water by the pulmo- nary artery is sometimes attended by a complete reflux, although the cur- tains easily flow to with the current; and although it is always seen, when the ventricle has had time and freedom to contract, that the valve acts nicely, and with some strength. + I have attained the same result often, and the contrary also. A kid, seven weeks old, was allowed to feed during the day, until four in the after- noon, when it was killed by one stroke on the head : the chest was ripped open, and the blood escaped by the cava: the heart was immediately cut out, and the pipe of the syringe held in the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The right ventricle was thin, and held a large quantity (of cold water) : it still continued to contract feebly: a little force served to.bring the valves imperfectly together; and they closed pretty neatly, but very feebly. After about twenty minutes, there was but little improvement. In another kid, about eight weeks old, insensibility was induced at a blow, and the heart removed almost instantly. The contractions of the right side continued imperfectly for two minutes during the injection : the valve closed very feebly; but though it allowed some escape, the ventricle was easily filled without force : a very little produced an increased reflux. It had eaten nothing for twelve hours, nor sucked for eight. These results depend on the removal of the heart without the accumulation which strug- gling or a gradual death are likely to produce.56 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. pulmonary sigmoid valves acted but feebly, and the tri- cuspid closed almost accurately, although the right ventricle was rather large. The heart of an antelope that had been dead several days appeared in good condition. Its right ventricle was firm and of good thickness, but somewhat in a state of fulness or distention. By injection, the three triangular folds formed a plane, with very wide fissures between them. This aperture closed somewhat with more forcible injection; but the escape was rapid, and the walls were too solid, in death, to yield^. The moderator hand was not very long. A zebra died unexpectedly in the night. On the second morning, the heart appeared healthy, and in a medium state of fulness. The pulmonary valves acted well, and the tri- cuspid curtains closed with some nicety. The heart of an ass was removed from the body at the time of death. When injected the following day, its tri- cuspid formed a wide unbroken plane (a very admirable adaptation). At the same time, on passing a finger through the closing valve (the injection being kept up forcibly all the while), the moderator band was felt, long and loose, and capable of admitting as much more fluid as the cavity con- tained. This cavity was of good size; and its wall, both firm and thick, was so consolidated by tonic contraction, as to form the greatest contrast with the living state, after a systole, or at the point of death. The left ventricle and valve were very powerful. On injecting the right ventricle of a cow some hours after the death of the animal, the valve appeared to act almost perfectly; the cavity being, as I supposed, in a state of con- traction. In a second experiment on the heart of a very large ox, about thirty minutes after the creature had been struck down, it was anticipated, from the solidity of the left ven- * The extreme softness and laxity of the yielding wall of the right ven- tricle, in the interval of the systolic efforts, as well as immediately after the last distinct contraction, requires to be contrasted with the firmness which the wall subsequently attains in death, whether suffering under distention or not. When an animal dies, probably no congestion in the healthy heart is capable of preventing a certain degree of tonic contraction, even in the auricles, and much less in the right ventricle.Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Mammalia. 57 tricle and the limited extent of the right, that the valve of the latter would close well; but the first attempts produced a reflux, wliich, though considerable, was not great for the size of the organ. Waiting, however, about twenty minutes, and then renewing the distention, the valvular action had evidently become much more true. In these two hearts, the complete action of the left valve, and its great power, formed a marked contrast with the function of the tricuspid. Half an ounce of strong tobacco was infused in a pint of water, and the liquid was injected into the jugular vein of a horse. The operation lasted about two minutes ; he stag- gered for near a minute, and fell: his legs were partially secured; but he plunged violently for near ten minutes, breathing fully. Air was now let into both pleurae ; and in about sixteen minutes from the first, all respiratory efforts had ceased: some motion of the heart continued for about another minute. The right side was most prodigiously dis- tended, and the left auricle was also full. Two or three minutes were occupied in removing the heart; and affixing it, by the pulmonary artery, to a large water-cock, the column of water being eighteen inches high, and the diameter of the tube nearly equal to that of the pul- monary artery. Under this pressure, the cavity became full; and the contents escaped as rapidly, without the least dispo- sition to distention. The heart was supported so as carefully to leave the right ventricle unpressed; but now, upon pressing in the situation of the column of distention, so as to carry it inwards, the curtains closed considerably, and the reflux, for so large an organ, was very moderate: at the same time, the ventricle became filled much more firmly. The left ventricle was already contracting permanently. This heart had every appearance of perfect health. Another horse, quite aged, that had eaten nothing for four hours, and but a very little hay for several hours previous, was destroyed with a smaller quantity of a stronger infusion Its struggles were very slight, and it ceased to breathe in about ten minutes. In about fourteen minutes, the heart was exposed: and found very greatly distended on the right side, and without motion. Several minutes elapsed before it could be removed and affixed to the same water-cock as * Four ounces to three pints : about twelve ounces injected.5S Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Mammalia. before, but with a column of fluid three feet in height. The events were the same as in the former case ; excepting this, that, on pressing in the root of the column of distention, the valve acted more closely, and the cavity filled more tensely. Tliree days afterwards, this valve acted very truly. An experiment was performed on the heart of a horse many hours after death ; and in tliis, the massiveness of the whole warranted the conclusion, that, at least, it was par- tially contracted. The tricuspid acted the part of a pretty accurate and strong valve. A young rein-deer, nearly full grown, was opened on the second day after death, and the heart removed. It seemed large, in comparison with the size of the animal; and its sur- face presented two or tlmee little cysticerci, but it was otherwise quite healthy. The right side was rather loose, and had probably been full. One pulmonary artery being secured, the other was used to receive the injection. The sigmoid valves would re- tain nothing*, and the tricuspid was still more imperfect. T'he valves were all healthy, and the left ventricle powerful. At the conclusion of the investigation of tins safety-valve function in the class Mammalia, it will hardly be necessary to observe, that the simpler action of the right ventricular valve is doubtless nearly perfect in all cases. On the con- trary, I cannot suppose that many experiments will be required to prove, that, in most cases, a very natural and common state of distention may render the valve imperfect; that is, a safety-valve. To establish, experimentally, that certain proportions of this function are dependent on the precise stages disco- verable in the structures concerned, would be impossible; although such a conclusion will pretty naturally follow in the mind of all who shall once have witnessed the different appearances of the valve, under experiment, in two extreme points of the series. Thus, in a set of experiments on dogs, the valve will surely be found more or less perfect; and as surely, in a few varied experiments on sheep or goats, it will be found much less true, though in very diffe- rent degrees. * This occurrence is by no means very uncommon.Published by 8. Ilig’hly, I'icct SVDESCRIPTION OF PLATE II. Fig. 1. represents tlie Right Ventricle of the Hare, laid open: the outer curtains (or those of distentioii) are fully displayed, with their cords and columns affixed to the solid wall, and consequently not subject to the move- ments of the yielding wall. The fulness of the cavity, however, may vary considerably; and the excess so far expand the auriculo-ventricular foramen, that the scanty curtains shall close it less completely. Thus the curtains, cords, and columns, here shewn, may still retain the name of curtains ^o. of distention. At the base of the largest and foremost column of distention is seen a slight moderator band, reaching to the yielding wall: in this grada- tion, it is of very little importance, as to size, site, and use. The probe passes from the right auricle, through the tricuspid opening, into the ventri- cle, towards the pulmonary artery. It should be observed, that the letters of this and the third Plate indi- cate precisely the same parts as those in the first. Fig. 2. is a Drawing taken from the Right Ventricle of the Yaguarundi (a feline animal). The curtain of distention is seen, with its cords and columns; but the larger column, the anterior, only seems liable to a slight dis- placement. A limited portion of moderator band attaches it to the solid wall, whilst a slighter and longer part of the band connects it with the yielding wall. The first part allows whatever little motion the last part is able to effect, when the yielding wall suffers distention ; and, in addition, the length of the column renders its proper contractions of importance; whilst its base, more or less connected with yielding wall below, is proportionablyless fixed. Fig. 3. represents the Right Ventricle of a Goat.—Here is seen very pro- minently the moderator band stretching from the solid to the yielding wall: and where it joins the latter, the column (a compound one) of distention arises ; and this is seen to afford attachment to a number of cords, and a wide extent of curtain.—The cavity is shewn rather in a state of contraction than distention. The observer will scarcely fail to be struck with the conclusion, that a column of this kind cannot but produce a very great displacement of the curtains, if it be really true that the cavity is susceptible of much disten- tion. The sheep and some others certainly present a still broader or more compound column ; but in all of these, experiments shew, that, with the least possible disturbance of the circulation in dying, the valve may become totally useless, but that a very few minutes restores its true action, by drawing in the yielding wall, an4 with it the apparatus of distention. Fig. 4. is a Posterior View of the Right Ventricle in the Porpoise. Infe- riorly, the bifurcation of the ventricles is seen, but here somewhat less than I have found it in a recent specimen. Within the cavity, the two shorter columns of distention (D and E) are represented, attached to the thin reticular yielding wall, above and externally. (C) indicates two longer columns, which, in the first gradations, we cnUed fixed ; but they are now become accessory columns of distention, being fully developed, and based rather on the yielding than the solid wall; each one, however, has a partial attachment to the solid wall, which is not here seen. Diagram 1, like those of the preceding Plate, represents a Section of the Right Ventricle; and is intended to illustrate the gradual change of position incident to the columns of distention in a succession of animals.DESCRIPTION OF PLATE II.—Continued. 60 A The solid wall. B The yielding wall. C The fixed curtain, and its cords (one instead of many), D The curtain, and cords of distention. F The moderator band (of distention). f The transverse dotted lines explain the gradual disappearance (the fading transitions) of the same band. The Numerals refer to the various attachments peculiar to the columns of distention in the several orders of animals. In relation to the moderator band, the columns of distention (represented, in each case, as one) are attached internally towards the solid wall, as seen at 1; or they are attached externally towards the yielding wall, as shewn at 4 ; or their attachment is intermediate, as at 2 and 3, between the two walls and upon the moderator band itself, though also extending farther, to be at- tached to either wall. Diagrams 2, 3, 4 and 5, may serve to pourtray the four earliest stages in which the column of distention is found, as described in the first series of animals. In Diagram 2, the column (D) is small, most dependent on the solid wall (A) ; most remote from the yielding wall (B); and almost destitute of a moderator band (F). In the remaining three, there is seen a gradual increase of the column and band, and a greater inclination towards the yielding wall. Diagram 6. represents a considerably greater development of the appara- tus of distention than the preceding. D The first column of distention is becoming subject to the yielding wall; and E The second is following the same mode of evolution. The dotted column is also developing itself. Diagram 7, like those preceding, shews the formation of the apparatus of distention as connected with the yielding wall (B); the common columns of distention (1 and 2) being attached to it. And here is likewise represented the gradual development of the bifid heart, with thinning of the cavity’s left wall towards the apex ; and the corresponding gradation of the columns formerly fixed, now more properly the left or accessory columns of distention (4,5, 6). If the dotted line (G) be the outline of the sepa- rated left ventricle, the great column (4) will justly represent the arrange- ment of this structure in the Porpoise ; in^whom the newly-developed acces- sory column of distention, partly confined by the moderator band (F), is based upon the thin and yielding part of the left wall, once the solid septum. To explain the adjustment of parts in the Seal, the same Diagram and Ileferences may serve, with the exclusion of the great column (4) ; in which case, the incipient accessory column of distention (5) is inserted into the solid wall, with many other cords, and unaflfected by dilatation : but it is remarkable, that already the length of this muscular column renders its contraction an important object in the motions of the valve, as is also the case in some ruminants. The remaining dotted lines (J & K) are in- tended to represent the outline of the left ventricle, in the succeeding stages of more considerable separation; that is, in cases where the bifid heart is most marked. In these cases, so much more of the solid loall will be yielding wall; and so much more will the fixed columns become, as I anticipate, accessory columns of distention.( 61 ) Pabt III.—of the SAFETY-VALVE IN BIRDS. THE FORM, ANALOGY, AND GRADATIONS OF STRUCTURE, IN THE SAFETY- VALVE OF BIRDS.—THE FUNCTION ILLUSTRATED BY EXPERIMENTS. It seems likely, that the small quantity of circulating fluids natural to birds, together with' their elevated respiratory function, should demand a free and speedy pulmonaiy cir- culation; it is undeniable, that the crescentic valve in their right ventricles is admirably adapted to insure such an action; and I am deeply impressed with the conviction, that the most experienced zootomists will find the greatest difficulty in admitting the opinion I am about to maintain ; yet I do not doubt that it will finally be found a correct and important deduction. The modification of a safety-valve apparatus in the right ventricle of some birds has appeared to me strikingly peculiar, and not less manifest than in many animals, al- though the efiect must be less considerable. For the sake of description, I shall still have occasion to speak of the septum ventriculorum as the solid wall; and likewise to consider the thin outer or right boundary of the ventricle as the yielding wall. (See Pi. 3.) In all birds, the right auriculo-ventricular opening is of a narrow, lengthened, oval figure", or rather, it is a fissure; and it is guarded, as is well known, by a crescentic plane of muscle, whose flat surfaces are apposed to the two walls of the ventricle in wliich it lies, and whose concave margin, acute and free, is presented towards the apex of the heart. The convex edge of this crescent is united to the auricular margin of the yielding wall; that margin being, as it were, folded into the ventricle, in order to form the valvular cres- cent, by which name it will be desirable to distinguish this part. (See D 2 of the Figs, on PI. 3.) The inferior horn of this crescent is attached to the solid wall, at the point where the two walls unite poste- riorly ; and the anterior and superior horn, being directed towards the pulmonary artery, has attachment to the inner face of the yielding wall; whence it is immediatelyMr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 62 deflected, to be inserted into the solid ivall at the anterior extremity of the auriculo-ventricular fissure. Now it must be evident, that when the yielding wall is affected by dis- tention, this last deflected portion of the crescent will be proportionately elongated; and, at the same time, the adjoining extremity or horn of the valvular crescent will be removed, in an equal degree, from the solid wall, against which it ordinarily closes fast. This is the explanation of an aperture of reflux—a safety- valve under distention — as existing in birds in various degrees; but probably not in all of them. The anterior attachment of the valvular crescent varies, in its extent and strength, in the different orders of birds; and, at the same time, the deflected portion of the crescent is found to have different degrees of elongation, according to which the distention of the yielding wall, with the displacement of the valvular crescent, may be regulated, and, indeed, esti- mated. In certain cases, the deflected portion of the valvular crescent is so extensive and important, so distinctly and fully crescentic (in itself), and so plainly adapted to the office here ascribed to it, that I shall speak of it as the crescent of distention in all birds; premising, that in some it is very inconsiderable, or possibly even altogether lost. (See D. 1. Fig. 2. PI. 3.) The crescent of distention is thin, and chiefly membranous, especially where most developed. It is in some respects analogous to the moderator hand in the mammalia; but I rather regard it as a modification of an anterior curtain of the most simple tricuspid valve; and should look for the rudiment of a moderator hand among those little pillars, which assist to connect the two walls opposite to the crescent of distention anteriorly. (See F, Fig. 1. PL 3.) The formation of the crescent of distention is similar to that of the valvular crescent. We might suppose a small part of the auricular edge of the yielding wall folded into the ven- tricle, and having a free crescentic margin bounded by a little horn at either end. The left or posterior horn of this little crescent is inserted into the solid wall, near the pulmo-63 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. nary artery. The anterior horn of the crescent of distention is attached to the yielding wall, in conjunction with the anterior horn of the true valvular crescent; thus forming an attachment of distention, which is strictly analogous to the single column of distention in certain quadrupeds, as in the horse; and more remarkably so, when it (the attachment of distention) is divided into several cords, as I have sometimes found it. Considering the crescents in the distended ventricle, the auriculo-ventricular opening may be represented by a tri- angle (as in Diagrams PI. 3.), the base of which is (A) the solid wall of the cavity; whilst, of its two other sides, the longer one is formed by (D 2) the valvular crescent, and the shorter by the crescent of distention (D 1). The union of these two, at their common point of attachment (D), forms an angle which seems to differ somewhat in different orders, and to be of some importance with respect to the function of reflux. I shall endeavour to shew that the tendency to distention in the right ventricle of birds exists in various degrees; that it is gradational; and that the extent of the crescent of disterdion is of correspondent development in the several gradations; and that the consequence of this is, that the valvular crescent is liable to displacement in the same pro- portion, to the effect of producing regurgitation. In one case, the susceptibility to dilatation is very insignificant: the crescent of distention is short, and the valvular crescent cannot be removed from the sphere of its true valvular action: the fissure is open only to the afflux of blood. In other cases, the dilatability of the ventricle is more or less considerable, or it is extreme: the crescent of distention is elongated accordingly; and the valvular crescent is propor- tionately displaced, whenever the cavity becomes distended. In the same manner and degree, the auriculo-ventricular opening continues unclosed 'during the distention; and the aperture of reflux is free. It is apparent that the thickness or thinness of the yield- ing wall forms a very essential consideration, witli regard to its liability to distention ; and it is observable, that, as inMr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 64 the mammalia, so in birds, the power of this part varies very much in the different families. The thickness of the yielding wall of the right ventricle, compared with the parietes of the left ventricle, may be as 1 to 2 or 3, or as 1 to 6 or 7*. The attachment of distention, or the united attachment of the two crescents to the yielding wall, varies in its breadth, and also in its length t, in the several families: sometimes it is a double cord, or triple, or even more. In the same manner, the angle formed by the two crescents differs, in different cases, between a right angle and one of conside- rable obtuseness. It has usually been said, that the solid wall in birds is convex, and that the valvular crescent is curved upon it; but this statement is chiefly applicable in those cases where the valve is least susceptible of displacement by dilatation ; for the solid wall, at least that part on which the valve lies, may be flat, or actually concave. All these ' circumstances are readily demonstrable ; but the estimation of their extent and influence must remain for further eluci- dation. We may now see that the strict closure or imperfect action of the crescentic valves, throughout the class Aves, will depend on the variations which subsist in the relative proportions of the cavity, and of the yielding wall of the two crescents, and of the attachment of distention; and that the prominent or receding form of the solid w’all will also play its part in regulating the operations of the valve J. Having examined the elements of a safety-valve in the birds, and explained the circumstances of its variation, we * Indeed, the comparison of the walls of the two cavities affords a much more remarkable contrast in certain birds than in any of the mammalia. In the Stanley crane, I found the thickness of the right ventricle less than one-sixth that of the left; and in the black diver, certainly less than one- fourth. •f- Its length, reaching more or less towards the centre of the yielding wall, is a very important point, as relates to the delicacy of the safety-valve ojieration. + The intention of the crescentic and muscular valve was supposed, by lilumenbach, to relate to the exalted respiratory function, or rather to a powerful pulmonary circulation, in birds. But this will scarcely suffice to explainMr. King on the Safety-f alve in Birds. .65 have next to inquire, what proofs may be produced of an actual refluent action. These are very similar to those which relate to the mammalia. It must also be a deside- ratum, to determine those degrees of this function which belong to each particular genus or individual of the class. The anatomical history of a few particular species will serve amply to establish a series of structural gradations; but with resources of the utmost extent, a long period would be required to settle the scale of this function in its full extent ; and the task would be the more difficult, on account of a certain complexity which is discoverable in tracing it, or the structures on which it depends. I have imagined, that, in the genera of one order of birds, the safety-valve is pro- duced in widely different proportions, as in the Palmipedes, and again in others also; so that the limits of one series on the scale may surpass those of the adjoming ones, in either direction. The preparations which I have collected will satisfactorily prove thus much, and probably more; but though very numerous, they are quite inadequate for the purpose of determining the distinct and successive gradations. In the black diver, I have found all the essential parts of a safety-valve, in their complete development; the thin and extensive yielding wall; the long membranous cres- cent of distention; the angle of the two crescents almost acute; a tolerably solid wall; and the attachment of distention rather long, narrow, and inclining towards the middle of the yielding wall*. Now, tlu-oughout the order Palmipedes there is an evident wlfcrposseslT " 1 crocodile, va ve of 2 , ^ conclude, that the peculia.- lated l7 “edification of a true tricispid - may be calcu. precise valvular ^ quantity of fluid being small, a more less sensihlo ' 1 r is lequired, together with a more limited, but not less sensible or delicate safety-valve. remarkable ^*°^****^* venous reservoirs, which are scarcely less 22 a2 ' r ef mesentery are very at the hnl I>^«-^cnt instance, one jugular vein is as large 2e m clastic and vei ‘Ke pulmonary artery is also notable.66 Mr. King on the Safely- Valve in Birds. succession of forms in which these characters are modified*. The Grebes possess them in a decidedly less marked degree. The valve of the cormorant may be probably less close than that of the Grebes : the breadth of its attachment of dis- tention links it in resemblance with others of which the swan has seemed (hitherto) to afford the most remarkable type. These, with a moderately powerful and capacious ventricle, have the two crescents united almost at an obtuse angle, or, as they might be described, forming nearly a continuous crescentic line, in opposition to a solid wall of some con- vexity. The broad attachment of distention which in the goose and cormorant may be found divided into three or four cords is a pretty manifest means of displacement and reflux, which, I imagine, must be very considerable in these birds. I am tempted to remark here, that, among the varieties of birds, the general properties of the crescentic valves, but especially of the attachment of distention, are considerably modified, and in a manner which does not merely depend on or affect the strength of the valve. This has enforced upon me the opinion suggested when describing the safety-valve of the mammalia; namely, that we may trace at one time a safety-valve that is very susceptible of acting; and at another, one less delicate, but more extensive in its function. In the Grallatoriae, it would seem likely, that, with a con- siderable share of the elements of a safety-valve, material differences may exist with regard to the proportions pos- sessed by particular genera, and even different species. In determining these, sources of fallacy and difficulty must in- trude themselves, and in a very discouraging manner; as, for example, the parts in one instance will be found con- tracted, diminished in extent, thick and firm; or they may be in exactly an opposite condition. Notwithstanding this, a careful examination will assist to establish certain pro- minent features of distinction. The formation of the valve in the Stanley crane, as I have met with it, might alone convince * Not more modified, however, than are the habits of the species as relates to diet, flight, swimming, &c.; and a like reflection should be con- nected with other orders.G7 Mr.King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. many persons* of the existence of a safety-valve function. The concave solid wall, the wide and attenuated yielding wall, the delicate and extended crescent of distention, with a rather large attachment of distention reaching to near the middle of the yielding wall, all concurring, render it almost doubtful that a true valve was ever intended. The same parts in the heron have certainly less suscepti- bility to dilatation and reflux; and in the cariama likewise, if we may judge from the appearance of the valve; but in this last, the ventricle, being full, is scarcely thicker than the auricle. The ostriches have a broad attachment of distention, with a somewhat limited crescent of distention. The examination of parts of this magnitude, in their uncontracted state, makes the view of a refluent action highly probable. I speak after having seen at least six or seven different specimens. Nothing can be more true and powerful than the valve in tlie contracted ventricle. Beyond the Anseres and Grallae, we meet with a visible declination of the parts wliich belong to the function of reflux. Many of the Gallinaceae, Scansores, and Passerinse, are possessed of very confined valves and ventricles. But whilst studying the negative properties of these, as available, by comparison, to corroborate the inferenees from a looser arrangement, we may discover, in some divisions of these orders, a growing tendency towards the proper characters of a safety-valve f. The structure in the pigeon has sometimes had the ap- pearance of being thus inclined ; but more particularly that in the crow and raven; in which last case, experiment is favourable to the same conclusion. The crescent of distention in many of the Gallinae is greatly diminished; but I had not been prepared for its absence * Perhaps no one would demur, who had once seen the living right ven- tricle of a bird in the two states of distention and relaxation. •f It is very evident, amongst these birds, that a gradual change may be traced in the comparative extent of the cresce7U of distention, and also in the length and width of the attachment of distention. Of course, the insertion of this last will vary according to its length.Mr. King on the Safety- V%lve in Birds. 68 in any, when in the silver pheasant* the anterior attach- ment of the valvular crescent appeared distinctly to cease at the yielding wall, in close proximity, however, with the solid wall. The usual perforation or canal, above the at- tachment of distention, would only admit a bristle. The common pheasant, having a very insignificant cres- cent of distention, evidently approaches this formation: thus the valve is becoming gradually more simple. The conformation of the crescentic valves in various genera of the Accipitres, if admitting any reflux, is certainly opposed to any considerable degrees of the function t. The whole heart seems compact and powerful. The crescent of distention forms nearly a continuous line with the valvular crescent. The first, however, is of good length. The at- tachment of distention is peculiar, in being slight, and some- what lengthened. Its point of connection to the yielding wall is not unfavourable to the production of a slight dis- placement ; and it probably exerts a degree of disturbing influence in certain species. In others, its effect must be little or nothing: indeed, I could anticipate its total oblite- ration, having already found it faded to a thread. Here * Of China. I have examined but one. The resemblances between certain families of birds and quadrupeds are pretty clearly discoverable in the gradation of the safety-valve peculiar to each. It was while studying the part in the rapacious birds that this first struck me. The analogy, however, is most remarkable in the divers of the two classes. M'Leay has arranged five divisions of the Mammalia and of the Birds, in apposition to each other, according to the analogies discoverable between a certain division in the first class and one in the second. In this arrange- ment (as below), I have little hesitation in appending to each two, analogous divisions, a particular degree of safety-valve operation : Degree. Mammalia. Birds. Habit. 1st. . . Glires • . . Rasores . . . Frugivorous. [pletion.) 2d . . . Ferae . . . Raptores . . . Carnivorous ; (indolent in re- 3d . . . Primates . . . Insessores . . . Omnivorous. 4th. . . Ungulata . . . Grallae . . Frequenting watery places. 5th . . . Cetacea . .. Natatores .. . Aquatic. With regard to the degrees 1, 4, and 5,1 am disposed to entertain very little doubt. The present occasion will not allow me to do more than advert to the probable explanation of these differences. It seems to me, that the various habits of individuals, as to feeding and drinking, and the modes of exercise and respiration, may perhaps be sufficient to account for all of them.69 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. we seem to observe one more element of the valvular ap- pai'atus fading away. The relation of a few experiments on the valve of birds will serve to draw these views to a close. These have not been less conclusive, in my opinion; but, in order to meet the settled conviction which prevails as to the office of the crescentic valves, and with a view to obviate objections that will arise to the experimentalist, it is necessary to take some notice of the condition of the parts to be experimented upon. The right ventricle of birds doubtless may, and often does, become distended in dying; yet we mostly find that the sub- sequent tonic contraction lessens the distention, and adjusts the valve. The most common condition that we find, at any time within a fortnight after death, is certainly one of con- traction, though variable as to degi’ee. The same obtains, apparently, when the death has been attended with loss of blood, and when it has not. The suddenness with which the heart of birds may contract permanently, when removed alive, is very remarkable, and must not be forgotten. When experimenting formerly on birds, I found the right valve so generally and firmly closed, that if very conspi- cuous differences in the valvular construction had not pre- sented themselves, I should have resigned all idea of a safety-valve in this varied class of animals. In numerous trials upon several kinds of poultry, at different and, for the most part, distant periods after death, the valves acted very well, with scarcely any exception; or, at least, the inference of a safety-valve function was by no means satisfactory. Probably very few persons have had the opportunity of noticing the right ventricle of birds when distended in or after death. It is still less likely that any should have remarked the appearance of the valve under these cir- cumstances ; which, in truth, could only be striking in very few, as the swan or crane. Most anatomists, viewing the contracted heart, as it is usually found, with the close valve natural to the more com- mon birds, would very justly conclude that nothing could be more efficient, as a propulsive apparatus. Experiments will be found, however, to prove that a true valve is incompa- tible with the dilatation that may take place in some birds.7 0 Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. EXPERIIMENTS. A full-grown duck was fed freely with meal-paste, and allowed free access to water. After half an hour, its neck was dislocated. It seemed to struggle a little for about five minutes, and even to breathe imperfectly. The movements had not ceased when the side was opened; and the heart, beating violently, was quickly and easily cut out. The organ was soft, but fluttering actively: the right ventricle was thin, very large, and loose. The auricle was in great part cut away, and a very small pipe fixed in the mouth of the pulmonary artery. Accidentally, a small perforation was made into the ventricle, at the root of the pulmonary artery. The injection of the ventricle was performed slowly; but before it was half full, it was quite manifest that the valve was incapable of closing, in this state of the walls. The fluid (warm water) escaped as fast as it was thrown in. The natural disposition of the valvular crescent, under these cir- cumstances, was exceedingly well shewn : it was quite soft and loose; the middle portion presenting a flat surface to- wards the auricle, and its free edge, directly to the solid wall, without touching it. From this middle point the crescentic edge gradually inclined towards the interior of the ventricle, and at its attachment of distention it was turned from the valvular fissure in the greatest degree. The crescent of distention had a very little appearance of being curved in towards the fissure. Great force was required to fill the ventricle, on account of the narrowness of the pipe, &c.; but, without any degree of distention, the aperture of reflux was extremely wide. The puncture of the ventricle gave passage to a little stream, without otherwise interfering with the experiment, rendering it very difficult to produce a state of distention. A drfike, several years old, had been fed once only, and very scantily, in thirty-six hours. About six hours after the meal, it was poisoned with prussic acid. It struggled very slightly at intervals; and after four minutes, on opening its side, the heart was found beating moderately, and the right ventricle decidedly full. A good deal of delay occurred in affixing a pipe to the pulmonary artery; and the tonic7l Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. contraction of the right ventricle had diminished the cavity very evidently, before the injection was commenced. The wide valvular crescent was seen to spread out in the plane of the valvular fissure, as a true valve. The least additional pressure behind it was sufiicient to produce a reflux, even during the time of each imperfect systole ; so that it was not possible to restore that degree of fulness which had been found at first. The entire heart contracted firmly in about a quarter of an hour. An old duck, that had been ill fed, was shut up for two days, with as much meal-paste and water as it would take. Its neck was then dislocated; but it continued to stand up, sometimes fluttering, and probably breathing all the while, and still imperfectly'raising its head. After about eight minutes, its side was opened, and much blood flowed. The heart beat powerfully : the right ventricle was a good deal distended. The whole was flaccid in the intervals of con- ' tractions. On being removed and injected whilst an uniform but rather feeble systole was repeated, it was very plain that a degree of fulness, certainly not exceeding that which had existed in situ, was accompanied by a copious reflux. When the injection was stayed, repeated systoles were not able to re-adjust the valve. The free edge of the valvular crescent might be seen inclined slightly into the auricle, and that of the crescent of distention was also visible in the valvular fissure. In about two hours, the cavity was mode- rately contracted, and its valve almost true. A nearly full-grown goose was decapitated about an hour after a full meal. It bled freely, and without, as I think, ceasing to breathe, its movements were pretty lively, and without any violent struggle for three or four minutes. Whilst still moving, the heart was exposed through the ribs. Its pulsations were rather gentle and uniform. It was empty and loose, most remarkably on the left side. Being removed, and injected with the small pipe of the syringe, it was evidently unable to form a close valve, without very great contraction of the cavity. Long before the cavity was simply filled, the reflux was excessive. Nothing was to be seen of the crescent of distention*. In tliirty liours, the • Probably on account of tho width of the attachment of distention.Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. 72 right side of this heart was become pretty firm, and semi- contracted, or a little more: its valve closed accurately upon injection, but was very easily disturbed. A black diver had been dead four days. Its right ven- tricle was thin, and very loose ; and, upon injecting it, the valve could not be made to close ; the cavity not having contracted in death sufficiently to bring the valve within reach of the solid wall, or within the range of a true valvular action. A swan’s heart was the subject of old cellular adhesions in the pericardium ; but the state of its cavities, while in the body, was not observed. Five or six days after its death, without the slightest appearance of softening, the right ventricle being of rather limited extent, both the pulmo- nary sigmoid, and the crescentic valves, were found to be almost incapable of closing at all. They are still preserved, and are perfectly healthy. On examining the heart of a large cormorant, the right side of which contained a good deal of blood*, the cavity of the ventricle was found rather ca^^acious, and the walls firm. It was easy, by pressing laterally on the exterior of the auriculo-ventricular fissure, whilst the fluid was gently injected, to make the valve close neatly: but with the ven- tricle in a state barely full, the valve was not capable of retaining the fluid. The aperture, under these circum- stances, was not less than one-third of that of the pulmonaiy artery. A large grebe, that had been many days dead, was found, on being opened, to have the right ventricle in a state of semi-contraction. Upon injecting this, the valve might be said to act well, though it did not in any state close perfectly * The bird had been several days dead—perhaps a week ; but it was still in perfectly good condition. It had been shot; but the blood was nowhere extravasated. Tlie injection was performed as on former occasions ; the auricle being partly removed.Mr. King on the Safety- Valve in Birds. 73 against the reflux. It seemed certain that a fuller cavity could not have admitted a true valvular action. A full-grown ostrich had been dead three days. Some water was found in the pericardium : the right ventricle was rather empty, and the auricle was not very full. The sub- stance of the whole was firm. The pulmonary sigmoid valves acted very feebly. The crescentic valve was seen to close accurately, with a very moderate distention ; but with a slight increase, it gave way freely. It was easy to judge satisfactorily of the play of so large a piece of mechanism. If the cavity had been capable, during life, of any material degree of dilatation beyond what we found, the action of the valve would probably have been imperfect. A buzzard, that had died in confinement five days pre- viously, on being opened, was found to have rather a soft heart, the right ventricle of which w^as somewhat full. Any degree of force that was sufficient to overcome the mere adhesiveness of the valve, displaced it: indeed, it was quite evident that it could not act as a valve, when the cavity was simply filled up to the same degree as that in which it had been found when first opened. A strong old raven was poisoned, with about 2^ drops of prussic acid. It did not struggle. Within a minute and a half, it was dead, and the heart exposed. There was no pulsation. The right ventricle seemed to dilate, under the eye, very considerably. The heart was eut out, and the auricle cut off with the scissors: the pipe of the syringe was held within the mouth of the pulmonary artery by the thumb and finger (whilst an assistant guided the handle). This preparation did not occupy three minutes, but the ventricle had already begun to assume some permanent diminution and rigidity : being injected, the valve was seen to close; but a considerable aperture was produced by a slight increase of fulness, without any visible increase of the cavity; and when the apparent distention ■was scarcely half that which had been first seen, the opening was tri- angular, with a tendency to eversion (towards the auricle)Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 74 in the free edge of the valvular crescent. The cavity soon after became obliterated, by a complete contraction. A young cock, that had not been fed for thirty hours, was poisoned with prussic acid. It struggled considerablv. After about three minutes, its side was opened. The blood came in jets from the arteries. The right ventricle was very much distended: it was large, and loose, when cut out. On injecting this, the contraction of death proceeded so rapidly, that the ventricle was reduced, at the least, to one- half its original extent; but it was remarkable, that at no period, in no state or degree of fulness, was the valve quite true. The tube of the syringe was as small as a common pin: the muscular substance was growing firm. It was not possible to distend or enlarge the ventricle, on account of the escape of the fluid. A complete contraction quickly ensued. In this state, the more considerable curve which the contracting left ventricle must give to the valvular crescent should operate very favourably in producing a true valve. The action of the valvular crescent is to form a straight line, when iminterrupted. An old fowl was decapitated with a knife, and bled pro- fusely. Its side was almost immediately opened, and the heart found beating freely and steadily; the right side rather full than empty. Being removed, and injected whilst feebly pulsating, the slightest fulness was attended with some reflux; but I am unable to determine if this was, or was not, within the limits of a natural action *. In order not to multiply the detail of experiments, I would here re-apply a former remark—that it will be found impossible to escape the conviction of the existence of a safety-valve function, and of its structural transitions, if the inquirer will but pay attention to similar experiments in two opposite and remote gradations ; as, for instance, in geese and fowls. I cannot, however, forbear to add, that, notwithstanding the precise anatomical adaptation to be found in certain instances—in spite, also, of a true * I have felt the same difficulty with reference to experiments on the living hearts of pigeons.Mr. King on the Safety-Valve in Birds. 75 valvulai’ action occasionally met with in experiment, I have scarcely yet totally dispelled a doubt that has frequently presented itself, and sometimes forcibly; namely, whether the valve is in any bird altogether insusceptible of a refluent function It has now been shewn, that a certain structural analogy prevails in the right ventricular valve of all double-hearted animals, and that the varieties of ai’rangement manifestly render the valve more or less liable to disturbance by internal distention. I may be allowed to state, that, what- ever obscurity may attach to so extensive a sketcht, I cannot entertain the least uncertainty that the most rigorous test of experiment will but confirm the inference of a safety- valve, in numerous degrees, throughout the two classes of animals. In man> we must still reserve for farther study the varied states of activity of the venous circulation, those of accumu- lation and obstruction or undue propulsion in the riglit ven- ti’icle, the effects of a difficult or too forcible circulation in the lungs, and the consequences of venous obstruction in the different organs of the body. To these subjects, we can scarcely attach too much importance, whether in a physio- logical point of view, or with respect to morbid conditions. * This does not appear unreasonable, anatomically, even with the very type of the close valves before me, in the heart of the China pheasant. The great laxity of the parts whilst living, the distention which seems so readily produced during life in all cases, the relaxation of the yielding margin of the valvular aperture, so striking in some experiments, still tempt me to entertain this doubt. In the process of injection, it is impossilde to estimate the force employed ; but I would recommend, as I have always endeavoured, to adapt the force with great care, beginning l>y slight degrees, in order, if possible, to produce a perfect closure of the valve. •f" It would have been impossible, in this place, to supply a lengthened description of many specimens: indeed, only a part could be referred to. Many experiments have been omitted, from the same cause, as well as some highly interesting circumstances of analogy in the muscular crescent of the ornithorynchuS, and in those of the right ventricle of the crocodile.( ) DESCRIPTION OF PLATE III. Fig. I. represents the Interior of the Right Ventricle in the Turkey’s Heart. A is the convex solid wall. B is a pretty massive yielding wall. D is the filtachment (analogous to a column') of distention. D 1. is the crescent of distention, very limited in substance and extent, and sup. posed to correspond to the anterior curtain of distention in the Mammali^ D 2. is the valvular crescent, a powerful muscle, and well applied to the solid wall: it seems to represent the right curtain of distention of a true tricuspid valve. F is the rudiment of a moderator band. This is nearly the lowest degree of a safety-valve; if indeed distention can at all effect the displacement necessary to regurgitation. Fig. 2. is taken from .a Preparation of the Heart of the Stanley Crane.—The whole of the right side was gently inflated; the part was then put into alco- hol ; and subsequently laid open, by removing great part of the yielding wall. The interior of the right ventricle is the only essential part to be noticed. It presents aji anterior view of the valvular apparatus. The outline of the prepara- tion does not betray any excessive distention, although the drawing gives some- thing of this appearance; and the extreme thinness of the yielding wall is here even less marked than in the original. The crescent of distention is seen crossing the upper part of the ventricle, from the solid to the yielding wall. The valvular crescent is seen below, and posterior to it; and the two crescents are seen to unite at their external insertion (to the left), between which point and the solid wall is the widened aperture of reflux into the auricle. The flatness of the solid wall is here partially represented. Some judgment may be formed of the comparative size and thickness of the two ventricles,. The left was not subjected to any artiflcial distention. A section of its wall is shewn at (I). Admitting this to be an accurate portrait of the parts in their most complete distention, we have still an increase of development beyond what is seen in earlier stages. This is the fullest that I have found in the Grallai. The analogy between these parts and those of the simple tricuspid is sufiiciently apparent. C is the situation for o. fixed curtain (supposed). Fig. 3, and 4, are magnified Views of Preparations from Birds, shewing the Inte- rior of the Right Ventricle, as in the last.—In both of these, we have the thin yielding loall without, and the flattened and almost concave solid wall within ; the crescent of distention, thin and membranous, and placed superiorly; and the vaU vular crescent, limited, but muscular, and situated inferiorly. These two are attached, by their united anterior horns, to the yielding walL Fig. 3. is from the Black Diver; and remarkable, on account of the yielding wall being actually not thicker than paper. This bird has, probably, considering its class, a high degree of safety-valve; yet the breadth of its attachment of distention is far less than that of some others of its order. Fig. 4. is from the Pigeon, which offers a concave solid wall, a crescent of disten- tion, of small extent; but the attachment between the crescents and yielding wall is rather wide. These preparations, but especially the last, were distended, and indurated in spirits of wine ; and, from their small size and the delicacy of their structures, they have, no doubt, been much disturbed by the process: the differences, however, which they present, in comparison with each other and with the specimens above, are still, to a certain extent, real and remarkable. The Diagrams 1 and 2 are merely intended to explain two different degrees of a safety-valve arrangement—the elongation of the crescent of distention (D 1); and the separation of the valvular crescent (D 2) from the solid wall (A), by the carrying out of the yielding wall (B). Thus we might form the plan of as many different degrees of the refluent function as the class Aves will admit. , , • The convexity of the solid wall (A) is evidently subject to a gradual diminution, as is shewn by the dotted lines. It was difficult in this plan to shew the attachment of distention (D), varying in length and breadth, and still more in complexity.Plate III Fig-. 2. 7Jn9jyrt,on '^1^14: Sr S\/. yiinfeeS Sj'tS S/rr.fr^A/Vi^yAc/aJ*y^tui/•■• T/V. ■ V • . # f . * ■ *^»V * ^ •« • V ' % C*. .V -- r • .•» c T*"" A \ *• ' t ’ \ s. A.'SOME FURTHER ILLUSTRATIONS OP THE » SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION THE HEART. BY T. WILKINSON KING. y PUBLISHED IN THE GUY’S HOSPITAL REPORTS, No. XII.The theory of a safety-valve function in the circulation of man, and of warm-blooded animals generally, is, I think, to be supported by as great a variety and strength of argument as any of the doctrines of physiology. The nature of the evidence has formerly been pretty fully indicated*; and the view then unfolded can scarcely be said to have met with a less favourable reception than was to have been reasonably anticipated: yet it cannot be thought unnecessary to add fresh illustration to so novel a topict. I have persuaded my- self, that the importance of the subject to the naturalist, but more especially to medical men, ought to be more than an excuse for the attempt to extend and illustrate the theory, by every possible source of knowledge directly bearing on the subject. It is perhaps rather to be regretted, that, in the way of pathology, so little has been done to render the exposition practically available. The pathology of the right side of the heart, and of its safety-valve, would be topics * See Hospital Reports, Vol. II. p. 104. +1 have formerly quoted all I know of the expressions which only approach tlie idea of a safety-valve. I do not suppose that Dr. Adams will think it otherwise than just, to say that he has not attempted to demonstrate the existence Of a safety-valve, and that he has not hinted at the arrangements on which regurgita- tion depends. I am not aware that he did any more than express his opinion that there is in the right side of the heart “ a natural provision to allow of a partial reflux into the riglit auriclesaying, it “ was absolutely necessary,” “ as various natural causes must momentarily retard the passage of blood througli the lungs.” I have thought it reasonable to make this remark, in consequence of ob- serving that more appears to be attributed to Dr. Adams than I suppose he has ever laid claim to.4 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart of easy discussion; but no one could rightly enter upon this study, and still less could therapeutic views be admitted, without a physiological knowledge of the parts in question. These reflections will, I hope, excuse, if they do not justly introduce, the following detached observations; which, I would hope, are almost all appreciable to practitioners of the usual share of attainments. In the following observations, the safety-valve is con- sidered with reference— 1. To the child at birth &c. 2. To the proportion of safety-valve, as compared with the pulse, 3. To the habits of animals. 4. To the structure in the beaver, the dugong, and the quadrumana. 5. To some apparent exceptions;—in the water-rat, the otter, and the ornithorynchus. SECT. 1.—OF THE GRADUAI, DEVELOPMENT OF THE SAFETY-VALVE IN THE HUMAN HEART AFTER BIRTH, AND THE ANALOGIES IN A SERIES OF THE MAMMALIA. During the foetal life of the human being, when the right ventricle of the heart possesses walls comparatively thick and powerful, the action of its valve is pretty certainly most efficient: at a certain time, indeed, the two ventricles seem in all respects equal. When, however, the child begins to respire, and the easy flow of blood through the lungs leaves but little occasion for the exertion of the right ventricle (the ductus arteriosus being in effect closed), the substance and power of this cavity quickly decline*; while, at the same time, the aortic circulation demands increasing energy in the opposite ventricle, to the nourishment of which the newly-arterialised blood is diverted in a greater proportion. The left ventricle again, on which depend the supplies and development of the whole body, now engrosses to itself all the substance of the septum of the ventricles. In the first days after birth, the blood is probably little in * This decrease may commence before birth; and the cause, I conceive, will be found in a somewhat increasing degree of freedom in the circulation through tlie lungs.Mr. King on the Sofety-Va've Function of the Heart. o quantity, and its pabulum is gradually and almost continually supplied; and the infantile movements are, for the most part, gentle as regards the means of hurrying the venous circulation by muscular actions; and we may suppose the right side of the heart to have an easy play, to have no tendency to over-distention, or possibly only some slight and transitory delay. But as age advances, the less frequent and fuller meals, the more sudden and considerable venous re- pletions, the accumulations in the right heart from general exertions, with occasional delays in the lungs and arterial system arising from the growing activity and augmenting efforts, all conspire to disturb the once-equable current in the right ventricle. It may even happen, perhaps, that this cavity shall sometimes be more engaged in resisting dis- tention than in keeping up the circulation: and I do not doubt, that as diminished calls to exertion lead to feebleness of the part, so rare and sudden fulness will induce dilatation without hypertrophy. It is very little to admit, that the facts which should carry conviction on these points are not readily at command. My own opinion, however, is, that a fair knowledge of all the established circumstances of the case will not leave room to regard these views as merely hypothetical. I imagine, too, that very palpable facts in comparative anatomy and patho- logy fully accord with the same explanations. If, besides these successive periodic conditions, it should hereafter be established that the different ages of the adult, and even the sexes, have peculiar adaptations, the result will hardly be more than I have long anticipated. In examining the foetal heart, I have been led, to conclude that its tricuspid curtains, in respect alike of form, adjust- ment and proportion, are certainly much more completely adapted for a true and strong valvular action than they sub- sequently become; and the occasional oppoi’tunities I have made of trying the operation of the valve experimentally have assisted to corroborate the same conclusion. A safety- valve is evidently not needed for the protection of the lungs at this time; and the regularity of the circulation genei’ally would scarcely allow it to be called into operation, if it existed. 1 imagine the right ventricle, communicating freelyG Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. with the aorta, would even be rendered worse than useless, if its resistance were not in all respects equal to the force which fills that artery. The comparison of the gradations of the safety-valve in different animals of the class Mammalia, between the rodents and the ruminants, with the gradations described above in the young child, will not fail to furnish a solid argument in favour of the general theory, to those who are prepared to enter into the inquiry. It would only be to repeat my former descriptions, if I were to dwell more at length on these opinions. There is, however, one remark, which de- serves a separate reflection; namely, that the morbid dila- tation of the right ventricle occasionally carries the parallel between the human and inferior forms one marked step farther. Dr. Hodgkin was accustomed, long ago, to comjiare the blunt heart of settled pulmonary obstruction in man with the obtuse heart of some of the cetacea; and I think the same will apply, in a measure, to the valve. SECT. 2. A COMPARISON OF THE FREQUENCY OF THE PULSE WITH THE DEGREE OF SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION IN DIFFERENT CASES. It must be evident, admitting wdiat has just been advanced, that the child after birth, as it gains more and more of a true safety-valve, obtains likewise a slower pulse. It is not intended, however, to maintain that the pulse and the safety- valve action bear a definite proportion to each other: it is only proposed to state a few facts which seem to suggest such a conclusion. With respect to warm-blooded animals, I conclude it is certainly the case, that as in the whole series (including birds as well as mammalia), the right auriculo-ventricular valve becomes more true and close (as a simple valve), so the pulse increases in frequency. This, as a general observa- tion, will not, I think, ever be controverted: yet it is very possible that some even considerable and striking exceptions remain to be discovered. Enough, however, appears already certain to render the statement a firm basis of reasoning; especially when we compare the fiicts from the animal series with the statement of the gradational evolutions or gradual increase of the safety-valve, and decreasing number of pulses in the young child.Mr. King on the Safetij-Valve Function of the Heart. 7 By I'eference to a few other circumstances, however, the probable importance of these observations may be made more evident. Man, submitted to a vegetable diet, especially if the nutri- tion be of a little-concentrated character, will pretty surely obtain a more copious circulation, and less of muscular firm- ness : and supposing no peculiarity, as of climate, to counter- vail these tendencies, we should look for rather strongly- marked indications of different habits in various races; and, I conceive, we ought to find every organ manifesting its share of modification, if we were able to appreciate the change. I conclude plainly, that, with certain limitations, the fuller and slower pulse of a copious, unstimulating diet brings man physically nearer to the state of the ruminants, and vice versd. I do not mean that the pulse depends on the safety-valve essentially for its frequency: the altered nutrition and ac- tivity of the left side of the heart may suffice to account for its accelerated or retarded motion. But this I would ask: Is it not a curious and useful object of consideration, if it be true, that the safety-valve continues to correspond with these incidental changes of habit (if I may so speak) ? as it cer- tainly does in the permanent states of animals which may be employed to represent the casual conditions of the human body. The answer may be, that remedial and other aims may do without these views; but still it is possible that those aims shall be rendered both surer and safer, by a due regard to these reflections. It seems to me, that in our reflections on the relation be- tween diflerent kinds of food and states of the heart, of either side or of both sides, we may advance clearly towards a practical knowledge of the susceptibilities of the great organ, both as a whole and a complex organ. I think, too, that the causes of a rapid and firm pulse are the causes of a declining safety-valve; and that the latter is indicated by the firmer and harder pulse. It may not be easy to make these opinions practical; and certainly they are unworthy of the attention of any one, who has not made himself familiar with the details of the theory of the safety-valve. I should not have introduced them without some conviction that, with caution, it may be well applied to the consideration of diathesis and the rise of diseases.8 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. SECT. 3.—ON THE RELATION BETWEEN THE HABITS OF VARIOUS ANIMALS, AND THE PROPORTION OF SAFETY-VALVE FUNCTION POSSESSED BY EACH. Supposing more or less of a safety-valve in a great variety of animals according to their food and habits, it will doubt- less appear desirable to give some consideration to the dif- ferent modes of life which require certain proportions of safety-valve apparatus. I have not thought it my province to make any especial investigation of this subject; and I conceive it will suffice to point out a very few distinct facts, in order rather to explain the nature and value of the in- quiry, than to illustrate the extent of its bearing. It will not therefore be necessary to repeat all that has been for- merly adduced on the subject. The rodentia, devoid of any true safety-valve, have a simple stomach, for the digestion of dry or scanty, and some- times of bitter or stimulating food; and they can scarcely be said to drink. Their circulating fluids are in small quan- tity. The hare, it is true, is capable of severe exertion; but its aversion to move is at times (of repletion probably) so great, that it will allow itself to be taken with the hand: and it is remarkable, that when hurried, as by the chace, it is subject to pulmonary apoplexy; which is a sufficiently striking proof that its want of a safety-valve renders it less fit to endure widely-varying states of fulness in the right side of the heart. Feline animals, and others allied to them, with very little more of safety-valve, are scarcely energetic, except in a state of hunger and diminished circulating fluids; whilst re-. pletion renders them materially incapable. The usual drink of a lion, in this country, is less than a pint in the day; but that of a bull, of equal size and from a similar climate, is about a small pailful. The ruminants have a capacious vascular system and a large digestion. They, too, may need sudden efforts; and I have thought that herding together, and sometimes com- pressing one another’s bodies violently, a sudden afflux must call for the full play of their ample safety-valve very urgently. In reference to many facts and appearances which will pi'esent themselves in opposition to the assumption of strict relation between the habits and the safety-valve of any givenMr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 9 animal, I would refer to a statement which I formerly made, to excuse the use of the term in the case of animals that may seem to have none of the function; namely, I shewed that the right auriculo-ventricular valve acted hut feebly or im- perfectly in all the mammalia; and I maintained the probabi- lity, that, in the closest form of the valve, with the exertion of the animal, the yielding of the annulus and the thin wall of the venti'icle would still induce some safety-valve action, when most needed. This argument also favours the opinion, that the true safety-valves must have a free and copious action. Another reflection seems fairly to connect itself with this. As a safety-valve will require certain correlative adapta- tions—in the veins, for instance,—so, regardless of external circumstances, we may expect the safety-valve to vary some- what, in correspondence only with a variation of some in- ternal part or state. Surely, also, incidental or acquired habits will augment or diminish the ordinary range or degree of safety-valve, if they only affect the dimension and power of the right ventricle. Scanty and nutritious food will induce a limited and firm circulation, as well as an easy respiration, &c.: the ventricles will be small, and their action complete;—and the reverse will obtain. The well-fed gentleman and the trained prize-fighter present a forcible contrast in this matter. The poor man’s dog and the pampered creature in the paid our do the same: and I conclude that their hearts participate in the difference; or, where they do not, disease begins. Lastly, I think that birds are not without circumstances closely parallel to all that we have been considering. It is not to he thought that the over-distended eagle, which is scarcely able to rise thirty feet from its carrion prey, would not be able to fly away with a much larger mass than it has devoured. The obscene birds, as I have observed them, are at times almost paralyzed with repletion; while at other times their power and agility are justly the proverbial type of youth and vigour. I would attribute tlie oppression almost exclusively to vascular fulness and pressure *. * With reference to habit and the safety-valve, there is still, in comparative anatomy, a new field of observation in the venous and auricular valves. Tlie last, in birds and some mammalia, arc very rcp;ular and complete structures. 'J’ho10 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. SECT. 4.—NOTES ON THE SAFETY-VALVE OF THE BEAVER^ THE DUGONGj AND THE QUADRUMANA. On the Safety-Valve of the Beaver. The beaver affords, I think, the simplest illustration and the strongest proof of the theory which it is my aim to advocate. Its heart, contrasted only superficially with that of another rodent, furnishes a conclusion that it will be difficult indeed to controvert; when it is admitted, that vari- ations of form are essential indications of variations of office; and that such a habit as that of diving is to be sup- ported by especial endowments, of one kind or another, ex- ternal or internal, of altered conformations, or of parts alto- gether supplementary. In a former paper, the reader may find described, and drawn, the characters of the tricuspid or safety-valve in the rodentia or gnawing animals. The following is a very marked, and, as far as I know, the only deviation to be found in the form of the valve throughout this order of animals*. It will be easy enough to compare the adjoining drawing and sketch; which represent the interior of the right ven- tricle in the beaver, on the one hand; and in all the rest of the rodentia, on the other. The sketch is from a drawing of the part in the hare which may be referred to in Vol. II. of these Reports. The muscular columns of the valve are all based upon the solid septum; and it is plain that distention Tlie circular muscles of the caval openings, in many mammalia, and even in man, are not without a use in this respect. The muscular band in man is most marked in the superior cava ; and in the dog it is very broad. There are probably other provisions to be considered; but, generally, I suspect that the valves of all the venous system will have distinct and important correlations with the safety-valve. All the so-called imperfect valves act truly or not, as the tube is collapsed or distended. We shall every now and then find such occa- sions as the following to be provided for. When the seal dives, blood is accumula- ting in the veins and sinuses of the abdomen ; but with the very commencement of respiration, the diaphragm, as it were, empties the abdomen into the chest. * I have formerly shewn, that, next to ruminants, the whales, the seals, and (as I suppose) the diving birds, are the creatures most in need of, and most endowed with, a safety-valve in the right ventricle; and I have stated generally —and this deserves full consideration—that the corresponding arrangements of venous and arterial reservoirs, and of venous and other valves, are in pretty regular conformity with the gradations of the safety-valve in the series of warm-blooded animals.Mr. Kiny on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 11 and yielding of the thin wall cannot alter the situation of the bases of the columns, however it may act in dilating the auriculo-ventricular orifice, which the curtain is destined to close more or less completely. On the other hand, observing the arrangement in the drawing of the beaver, we see the chief muscular columns are secured to the thin wall; which under distention (and it seems very thin and weak) must necessarily draw down the curtains which are connected with these columns, whenever accumulation produces any considerable falling out of the yielding wall. It is observable, that the columns which are thus subject to distention, being widely separated, will also draw the curtains in opposite directions from the plane, in which they close most accurately; and it is to be considered probable that some simultaneous yielding of the auriculo- ventricular orifice serves to increase the passage for reflux.— It only remains for me to ask. Why does this remarkable difference exist ? Why is the beaver the only one, among a great variety of gnawing animals (and I have examined a good many), in which any deviation is made in the form of the tricuspid ? and why does the peculiarity follow the con- formation of other diving animals, and after the manner in which I had hoped to find it?—as I believe the gentleman* is aware, who sent me the beaver for dissection. I indulge myself with one more inquiry. Can it be for any other reason than this, that, as in so many other cases the sus- pension of respiration induces a delay in the pulmonary circulation, an arrangement is contrived, by which the im- pulse of the ventricle should be diverted from the luno-s; while its movements may be still kept up, to be in readiness for the occasion, when the inspiration of air will allow the circulation to proceed.^ A very little reflection will shew that diving is not the only exigency: and I may here add, that the safety-valve of man is very near, in its main characteristic, to that of the beaver. * I am indebted to Mr. Aston Key for this additional and interesting proof ot a safety-valve action.12 Mr. King on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. On the Safety-Valve of the Dugong. In my first reference to the safety-valve of the dugong a vegetable feeder of the whale tribe—I could only surmise that its peculiar double-pointed heart was designed to aug- ment the refluent function to the utmost, to render both the right and left walls of the ventricle subservient to the safety-valve action. I have now to add, that dissection has verified my anticipation. The following is a description of a Preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. It would be difficult to render it intelligible at first sight; but the reader, who has become acquainted with the account of the parts in the por- poise (as given in Vol. II. of these Reports), may pretty readily comprehend it. In reference to the safety-valve, I think it is manifest that the right ventricle is, in the most marked degree, thin and yielding; and that the separation of the two ventricles in- creases its distensibility considerably. No artificial disten- ding force has been exerted upon the ventricle; and it is evident that its walls are collapsing inwards in many parts and not least at those points where the columns of distention are attached. The whole appearance of the right ventricle, though still large, is that of a shrunken cavity. It does not appear that there is one (“ fixed ”) cord actually inserted into the solid wall: though I may remark, that fixed cords at one point only would interfere very little, if at all, with the forming of an aperture of reflux by distention and gener al traction of the remaining columns. The proper moderator band is large and of great ex- tent, though probably here contracted; but its appearance together with a peculiar muscular valve-cord on the first or great column of distention, and also two large bands in the left ventricle) seems very well to illustrate the opinion which I have formerly advanced, that the moderator band is chiefly concerned in regulating the position of the columns of distention. The inferior attachments of the second and posterior columns of distention point strongly to the inference, that a traction or safety-valve action of these pillars is dependent on their remoteness from the solid septum: and the extendedMr. Kiruj on the Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. 13 arch, which two form by uniting superiorly, gives a sepa- rate point of insertion to each of their cords, and, at the same time, a different direction to the downward traction exerted upon every one of them at the periods of distention. On the Safety-Valve in the Quadrumana. The opinion suggested in my first paper, relative to a series of gradations in the safety-valve of different monkeys, has been supported by pretty conclusive examples; and T may add, that the extent to which the variations are carried has exceeded my expectations. In the heart of a baboon (Maimon), prepared by Mr. T. Iliff, I noticed the safety-valve, if it may he so called, at its lowest development. It re- sembled that of the hare, but still more that of the dog. It is not unimportant to study the probable result (which I have elsewhere referred to) of the length of the columns of distention. It cannot but indicate, some difference, where the muscular column is proportionately thrice as long as in other instances; but I cannot now enter into the inquiry of what constitutes a full or coarse safety-valve (so to speak); and what a delicate or susceptible, though perhaps less free, valve of reflux. SECT. 5. — OF THE WATER-RAT, THE OTTER, AND ORNITHORYNCHUS ; WHICH SEEM TO NEED A SAFETY-VALVE, BUT WHICH SCARCELY APPEAR TO POS- SESS THE FUNCTION. There remains a subject to be touched upon; which I should be very glad to be able to illustrate, not only on ac- count of its interest zoologically, and because it seems to promise curious discoveries, but because, to some, it may seem to furnish objections to the general theory of the safety-valve function. That there should be exceptions to a rule, is not surprising; nor need we wonder that the interior of animals should at times differ more than their exterior or their ordinary habits. The following peculiarities in the form of the tricuspid are well deserving attention in the way of investigation, both with respect to correlative circumstances of habit, and of conformation in the several animals in which they occiu*.14 Mr. King on ihe Safety-Valve Function of the Heart. Tlie water-rat of this country, as far as I liave been able to learn, has no peculiarity in the tricuspid, beyond that of the rodentia generally. The tricuspid is a bad safety-valve (if I may so describe it); and like the part in all the rodentia, except the beaver. What compensatory structures may exist, or what states of the animal prevail over the want of a safety-valve, may perhaps be easily discoverable; but it has not been in my power to determine. The suggestions which I have previously made are very likely, however, to involve all the necessary explanation. The digestion of the beaver is more complicated, and probably more copious: that of the rat is most simple. The common otter 1 have found more devoid of the structure of a safety-valve than some pretty true feline animals. Its valve is like that of a dog. Its thorax is capacious; and it is probably true, that the animal is less of a diver than the seal, except at its periods of fasting. The ornithorynchus* is another, and the last apparent ex- ception of which I have any knowledge; but of this I still entertain doubts. Its right valve approaches to that of birds and of crocodiles. I cannot speak of any correlative structures or habits that may assist in determining its actions. My conclusion, from the examination of the part in question, is simply, that, like the closest valve of birds, it is designed for a circulation which is scanty in quantity; but that still it may admit of occasional reflux, at least by the dilatation of the annulus, if not by other specific arrangements. I have not deemed it desirable to enter into anatomical details on the subject of the preceding exceptions, for the same reasons that have deterred me from pursuing the exa- minations more completely. It seems legitimate for medi- cine to make use of comparative anatomy; but it is only for the zoologist to give himself entirely to the study. The inquirer may find the parts under consideration displayed in the Comparative Anatomy Museum of Guy’s Hospital, to- gether with pretty complete illustrations of the whole sub- ject of reflux function. * I have only examined the valve in the ornithorynchus paradoxus.■ > ■ » T • • ' * T. • % % -* s 4,- « * % I I /, ■i 1 I ■■i « #■ 3J7-0.7. W.f/ur.tlM7 J‘uldish«i ' fiinlrd A3* * A r A( 15 ) DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATE. Fis. 1. is a View of the Riffht Side of the Beaver’s Heart; the ca- vities being opened. A. . The part of the cavity of the right ventricle, communicating with the pulmonary artery. B. . Part of the wall of the right auricle cut away.—There is a similar opening below it; and the great veins and true auricle are also shewn. C and D. . Muscular columns of the safety-valve connecting the curtain with the yielding wall. A muscular column is seen between C and D; which is based upon the solid internal wall, and can therefore only act on the more fixed curtain by its own muscularity. Fig. 2. Sketch of the Interior of the Hare’s Right Ventricle, sur- rounded by a double line, which indicates sections of the thin or yielding wall of the cavity. ^. . is the largest column of four which are seen connecting the curtain with the solid wall only. The inner under or ‘ fixed’ curtain is not seen. Its tendinous cords have no muscular columns. The column A has a band which slightly connects it with the yielding wall; but all the four columns are like the inter- mediate one in Fig. 2., in being incapable of displacement, as C and D (in Fig. 1.), by distention.OBSERVATIONS ON THE DIGESTIVE SOLUTION OF THE GESOPHAGUS, AND ON THE DISTINCT PROPERTIES OF THE TVFO ENDS OF THE STOMACH. BY T. WILKINSON KING. / The objects of the following- observations, in addition to those named above, are, to enforce the fact of gastric solution gene- rally, and also to suggest a correction of some opinions which are opposed to the last doctrine. I would hope that a simple view of positive facts will suffice to make good the points alluded to. In bringing forward what I have long taught, it may be some excuse to observe, that I have been stimulated by observing that these views are neglected on the one hand, and unconsciously opposed by errors on the other, amongst most of the authorities that I have examined. I venture to suppose M. Louis to be the chief of those who have erroneously regarded the peculiar softening of the sto- mach as a form of gastritis or disease; and my reasons are given in a few words. I conceive, that, from the time of Hunter, the spontaneous digestion of the stomach after death, in man and animals, has been fully established: and it is evident that M. Louis has taken no pains to shew us in what his cases differ from those of Hunter and his followers; but, on the contrary, it will be easy to shew that, in the cases of all, in the main there are specific signs of the action of a gastric juice. The negative side of a controversy is but poor ground to occupy, unless, perhaps, when it affords a ready opportunity for illustrating positive truths. I shall therefore dwell but briefly on the objections I have to make. In autopsies in London, the effects of digestion on the h2 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the stomach itself are as often discoverable as not; and they are so peculiar, that it is a matter of surprise that they are not more generally appreciated: and it is to be regretted, that the inferences afforded by these effects have not had much more influence in limiting and directing the objects of experi- mentalists on the subject of digestion. When, for instance, the coats of the stomach have been perforated, and the surface of the spleen has become similarly dissolved or the diaphragm perforated, is it not evident that the agencies of the par vagum and of peristaltic motion are altogether inadmissible, as essen- tials to the solvent action ? The fulness of explanation which has already been devoted to the more common facts of gastric solution will sufiiciently excuse my confining these observations chiefly to what I deem most novel or least established. It is a very common circumstance for the epidermis of the oesophagus to be softened into pulp, or removed as by solution, or separated in particles of various sizes. All gradations of these changes are to be met with throughout the length of the passage, hut most often and marked in its inferior half. I have had no hesitation in ascribing these appearances to the agency of the gastric juice which may have been regurgi- tated about the period of the cessation of life, as other mat- ters occasionally are; for instance, half-digested fragments of food, or even bilious fluid, with which the lining of the oesophagus is sometimes deeply dyed. Perhaps the most conclusive mark of digestion, in the part itself, is seen when longitudinal stripes of the epidermis only are left adherent, and these in the interstices of folds which may readily be imagined to have protected them from the access of the solvent. The like conclusion may be drawn from small, isolated spots of the cuticle, if we suppose them to have been especially pro- tected by mucus from a crypt occupying their centres. It is unquestionable, that these changes go along with softening of the stomach : and M. Louis has described most of them in connection with the ramollissement of which he so fully treats, even to the symptoms, prognosis, and cure. Sometimes, when the oesophagus is much affected, the sto- mach is less so, and vice versd. The reason of this is, thatDigestive Solution of the (Esophagus. 3 when, by the contraction of the abdomen or stomach, the gastric fluid is most driven upwards, less, of course, remains to act on the lining of the stomach, which, being diminished in extent and thicker, is less readily acted on. It is to be remembered, that the unorganized cuticular lining of the oesophagus cannot be reduced to a paste (fausse membrane pultaceeJ, unless by decomposition, or some analo- gous change; yet M. Louis seems willingly to have disregarded this inference. In his first memoire, he describes the paste as a product of a mucous membrane; but does not alter his con- clusion in his second essay, where he admits an epidermis to exist. The testimony, however, which establishes the fact of di- gestive solution of the oesophagus is much stronger; and it may, I conceive, be employed successfully to elucidate the consideration of changes which take place in the stomach. The following examples are of an extreme kind ; and they are, proportionably, the less common. Case 1. Old Catarrh.— Intestinal Fever.—Dissolved (Esophagus. “Dec. 18, 1833.—A servant of all work, aged 19, a well- formed person, has been subject to cough from infancy, yet always enjoyed good health. She has suffered much from chest oppression during the last few months; and three weeks since grew much worse, in consequence of unusual fatigue; but she has only left her place a week. Typhus has deve- loped itself. The head now seems the most affected, and in the second place the chest.” On the 19th, no pressing symptom was remarked; but early on the morning of the 20th she was rapidly carried off. The body was examined nine hours afterwards. There was a moderate effusion in the pia mater, and some injection and cloudy speckling of the arachnoid. The lungs were healthy, or but very slightly too fleshy. There were slight pleuritic adhesions anteriorly, and the right pleura contained a little blackish fluid. The whole of the obtuse edge of the right lung (posteriorly) was destitute of pleura, which had been dissolved to the extent of about4 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the twelve square inches, the alteration being circumscribed by an abrupt margin of flocculent pleura: beyond, the serous sur- face was quite natural. The surface of the lung, thus denuded, did not appear otherwise altered: it was of an uniform aspect, rather dark, and, under pressure, exuded little bubbles of air, at all points. The opposed pleura costalis, when sponged, seemed entire; but it was not fully examined. The left pleura seemed to contain a little dark fluid; but the obtuse edge of the lung was unaffected, except that the pleura could be torn off with unusual facility in bands, which were very thin and soft; and beneath the membrane there was a good deal of superficial ecchymosis, and even some bloody vesicles. The deeper parts were unaffected. There were traces of bronchitis. The oesophagus was found dissolved, as the stomach is often seen to be. At two places just above the stomach, its whole circumference was destroyed, leaving an intermediate portion of tube of about one inch in length; the ends of which, like the upper and lower divided ends of the oesophagus, were soft and flocculent. The nerves were much acted on, but they had resisted rather more than the other tissues. The surrounding cellular membrane was similarly affected; and it was unduly lacerahle in the mediastinum, above the parts actually dis- solved. It seemed that the perforation of the reflected pleui-a was immediately above the diaphragm. The stomach was entire; and it was lined with a considerable layer of mucus, especially towards the right end. The liver was rather pale, and coarse in texture: the spleen full, and softening within. The end of the ileum was much ulcerated, and full of grumous blood.* REMARKS. M. Louis is partially in erroi’, in describing the softening of the oesophageal lining as always most considerable next the stomach: for although the remark is generally true, * See Preparations in tlie Museum—of the Lung, 1784'®; and of the Gisophagus, 1793“®.Bujestive Solution of the (Esophagus. 5 the cardiac end of the tube being naturally somewhat of a spliincter, its contraction may yield only momentarily to the solvent; and, most commonly, its lining is less affected than that of the part immediately above it. It may be supposed that gastric fluids are allowed to regui*gitate, and yet that the tube of the sphincter may not present much, if any, surface to be.permanently acted on. As to the cause of regurgita- tion, it is perhaps chiefly the fixed contraction of the abdo- minal muscles. As to the circle of the oesophagus which was left in the above case, it seems attributable to the simple weight of the heart, which may have kept this portion of the tube comparatively empty of the solvent. In the Museum is an illustration of the cuticular erosion of the oesophagus, and of the smaller degree of destruction at the termination of the tube. (See Preparation 1793^“.) The lowest inch of the oesophagus retains an unequal and ragged lining; but above this, two or three inches of the lining are lost, together with a little of the subjacent tissue. Some spots of cuticle remain, however, prominent and clear, as if they had been protected from the solvent. Case 2. Phrenitis.—Dissolved (Esophagus. Feb. 7, 1834.—William M , aged 39, a well-digger of good character, was assaulted, after paying his men, at a pot- house ; and five days afterwards, he was delirious. He suf- fered much from pain in the head, and was at times confined in a strait-waistcoat: on the fifteenth day he sank, comatose. He was considerably bled and purged and blistered, and took a good deal of calomel. The body was wasted. The ventricles of the brain were much distended with serum. T. he septum lucidum was stretched anci softened; and all the pia mater of the base was, as it were, infiltrated with opaquish fibrine, injected and ecchymosed. 1 he a'sophagus was extensively dissolved ; and the affected cellular membrance in the mediastinum around was (juite carbonaceous in colour, from the action. The viscera of the abdomen were tolerably healthy.<) Mr. T. Wilkinson Kimj on the Stomach. Case 3. Hernia.—Operation.—Bleeding.—Dissolved (Esophagus. April 1835.—Mary S., aged 67, a pretty well-conditioned person, was the subject of strangulated femoral hermia, which was laid open and returned. She sank on the third day after- wards. The body was examined within about ten hours after her decease. There was a general peritonitis, with much sanguinolent and fibrinous effusion, and considerable fetid effluvium. The strictured gut had a pretty healthy aspect. The left end of the stomach was a good deal dissolved; and a wide patch of the oesophagus was removed by the same causes; the green pulpy contents of the stomach being widely spread in the softened membrane of the mediastinum, and about two ounces were effused into the left pleura. The spleen was softening, and the liver indurated and myristicate. The kid- neys were too turgid. Dr. Samuel Gross, of Cincinnati College, who has produced a large and useful work on the “ Elements of Pathological Anatomy,” remarks, that “ softening of the oesophagus, of the same nature as that of the stomach, is sometimes observed — and, that “ one of the most common effects of this lesion is a perforation of the walls of the tube, and an escape of fluid into the thorax. The opening usually occurs near the cardiac extremity of the oesophagus, in connexion with an infamed, softened, or perforated state of the stomach; though occasio- nally there is no appreciable alteration whatever in any of the surrounding textures. No age seems to be exempt from this lesion; and in one or two instances it has been observed in new-born infants.” (Vol. II. p. 188.) It might be very possible to find additional facts to the foregoing'^. Sir Astley Cooper once described a similar case * The case related by Boerhaave, of a gentleman who, relieving his stomach, as he was wont, by an emetic, suddenly complained of a sense of rupture, and sank after twelve hours of great distress, is, I suspect, of the kind I am de- scribing. He was a robust, gouty Baron. 'I'he oesophagus was found torn asunder, a little above the cardia ; and there was a rent an inch and a half long into tlie left pleura, which was filled with the contents of the .stomach. I cannot conceive7 Mr. T. JVilkinson King on the Stomach. to me. The oesophagus was dissolved; and “ the bi’ead and cheese,” he said, “was found extravasated in the chest.” But I have at least said enough of these changes, for my pre- sent purpose: yet I may add, that the records, specimens, and drawings in the Museum contain numerous additional O and curious illustrations of the statements in the present Paper. My object is, next, to shew that the left half of the stomach is the only part concerned in the production of the digesting fluid: and that the attempt is necessary, appears from the observation, that the most considerable opinions of physiolo- gists which I have found on the subject are directly opposed to this view. One author writes as follows:— “ Of the nature of the peculiar agency by which the com- bination of elementary substances with water, and consequently their solution, is eftected, we cannot be said to possess much certain knowledge. The combination appears to be chiefly owing to the agency of a fluid secreted by the stomach, the glands for the formation of which are most numerous about the pyloric orifice." * Professor Todd t, of King’s College, seems distinctly opposed to the opinion, “ that the cardiac and pyloric portions of the stomach perform separate and distinct officesbut his obser- vation is directed against Sir E. Home’s peculiar opinions. I do not, however, infer that all observers, and especially that all pathologists, are of one opinion on the subject in question. Dr. Carswell has the merit of having made the most exten- sive exposition of the common actions of the gastric-juice, four- teen or fifteen years after Dr. Philip. Dr. Carswell’s sum- mary is as follows!:— conceive the oesophagus to have been so torn asunder; and the death I su- spect to have arisen from a not very uncommon cause, namely, extravasation into the peritoneum by perforation of the duodenum, or the like.—See Mr. Mayo’s “ Outlines of Human Pathology,” p. 281. Prout on the Nature and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Diseases, 1840. p.22. f See the Gulstonian Lecture, in the Medical Gazette, Nov. 1839. p. 207. + Edinburgh Medical and Surgical .Journal, 1830.Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. 8 “ 1. Softening-, erosion, and perforation of the stomach may and do take place after death, in healthy animals killed during the act of digestion. 2. These appearances are owing to the gastric juice, the natural secretion of the stomach. 3. The properties of this fluid, in a stomach which has undergone one or other or all of these changes, do not differ from the pro- perties it possesses in a healthy, living stomach during the act of digestion. 4. Acidity in these two circumstances is an in- variable and essential property of that fluid; and solution of the coats of the stomach, like that of the food, is the necessary consequence—a chemical effect of its acidity. 5. Softening, erosion, and perforation, are produced equally in other organs; such as, the liver, spleen, intestines, diaphragm, peritoneum, and pleura. 6. In all these cases, the gastric-juice is the che- mical agent wdiich produces the oi’ganic injury; its action being regulated by position, gravitation, and imbibition. 7. The effects resulting from the action of the gastric-juice shew themselves not only in a dead animal body, hut likewise as quickly out of the body, in dead organs into which it is in- troduced. 8. All the changes observed in rabbits, whether softening, or erosion, or perforation, are produced after death. 9. The solvent power of the gastric juice cannot be exerted on the living tissues.” The above conclusions, on the whole, have been only cor- roborated since they were put forth. In the course of these pages a few suggestions and modifications will appear; but they are rather in the way of additions than corrections. Dr. Wilson Philip*, who stands above Dr. Carswell in this matter, has fully shewn that, in rabbits, the solvent action is confined to the left end of the stomach; and Dr. Elliotsoii sides with him, in making this inference for the human stomach. The results of post-mortem digestion are fairly ad- duced in proof; and the following fact by Dr. Philip:—“Mr. Hastings, on examining the stomach of a woman wlio had died under his care, found it everywhere in an ulcerated state; * “ On the Vital Functions,” 1817, p. 161. Dr. Philip seems to have erred most in attributing to the nerves what depends on muscular motion and circu- lation.9 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. except iu the great end, where it was healthy. The stomach had performed its function to the last, and the fcEces proved that the food had been properly digested.” The fact, that the effects of digestion are most considerable and most constantly produced in the left end of the stomach, is, of course, the fii'st great corroboration of the opinion here contended for; but that which had the most force on my own mind, was that of the appearance of a remai'.kably distinct boundary line, dividing the lining of the stomach, nearly per- pendicularly, a little to the right of the oesophageal opening. This line is not very uncommon; and at times, though more rarely, it is very distinct, as we have good evidence to shew in the Museum. (See Preparations 1802^^ and 1802^^.) It is, however, variable enough in site and extent, as some subse- quent examples will shew. It is sufficiently evident, too, that this line depends on the same causes, and, when apparent, follows similar proportions to the local softening, which it serves to separate from the un- altered mucous membrane. I do not conclude that this mark is the boundary between the part which secretes the gastric solvent and that which does not, for it is rather too irregular in situation; but it is pro- bably true, that the solvent is never produced beyond it; or, at least, that whenever any partial digestion of the gastric lining ocurs to the right of the line, or the ordinary situation of it, the result depends on the casual passage of the proper secretion of the cul-de-sac into the right half of the cavity. This part, which appears most follicular, and most coated with solid mucus, is never alone found dissolved; but when affected, it is very partially so, and always in conjunction with, and in a less degi*ee than the left end. Observation, however, may safely go a little farther than this. It must, at least, be gene- rally true, that on the right half of the stomach, as in the oesophagus, whenever a part is dissolved, it is always in such a situation as to be explained by the peculiar folding or position of the lining by which it has been exposed to the secretion from the left end of the cavity. Besides the alteration in the left end, we may see a single patch denuded, or several longi- tudinal bands converging towards the pylorus, which have been the most projecting surfaces of rugae, &c., iti the partially- c 210 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. contracted organ; and I have never seen any of this particular kind of solution out of the left end of the stomach which did not seem to me to bear such an explanation. The line of demarkation above described varies conside- rably in extent, and even in site; and I do not know that any part secretes the solvent, besides the cul-de-sac. The line itself, whether narrowly or broadly defined, is charac- terized by digestive softening and discolouration on the left side, and by the absence of these changes, and possibly the presence of a coat of mucus, on the right. It depends on the level of the fluid suspending the solvent at the time of death; the latter being lodged, as in a pouch, to the left of the spine: and its very defined character, in a few cases, may be referred to an unusually strong, and not very pro- tracted, action of the solvent. The appearance is, in part, dependent on the presence of air in the viscus; and, at times, the digestion distinctly affects the whole of the under half of the stomach, i.e. as the body lies after death. When led to a search of the facts, the reader will find some good evidence of the specific action of the left end of the sto- mach in the observations of Hunter and of Carswell; and scarcely less readily in common inspections, at least in this country. I am of opinion that the pathologist should begin with setting down as the result of digestive action, all the discolouration, thinning, softening, and gelatinous tumefaction found in the left half of the stomach ; and the physiologist, all the positive results of experiments on the digestive fluid in man. With regard to the cases in which the interior of the living human stomach has been exposed, it is evident, that in none of them could the right half of the organ have been accessible, on account of its situation; and it is equally certain that the statements of many, as of Dr. Beaumont concerning the young man, St. Martin, refer only to the left side. These observations will often appear to require the distinc- tion which I have pointed out. Dr. Beaumont suspended a little bag of meat in the left stomach of St. Martin, and was surprised to find its contents dissolved almost as rapidly as the food which was left free; whereas, in truth, the bag was con- fined in, or at least very near, the fountain of the solvent. The experimenters on animals with a single and non-cuticjalarMr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. \ 1 stomach have observed (when the organ has been filled with solid food) that every part of the ingesta exposed to the lining is found dissolving; but that after death (quickly following a meal) solution seems to advance only in the left half or end of the sac. The explanation of the difference is, that the muscular actions convey the chyme beneath the mu- cous surface, from left to right; and, doubtless, the solid from the right gradually comes towards the left, to be acted on as room is made for it. A modern opinion, that the mucus performs an important part in the solvent actions, seems to me not only devoid of satisfactory proof, but rather opposed to the truth. The mucus is often devoid of acidity, as now and then (all trace of diges- tion being absent, while the mucus may be in excess) the whole stomach is so, and the mucus is not found (unless quite dissolving) on the softened parts; but it is usually abundantly effused where it appears to have acted most efficiently in pro- tecting the subjacent tissue from solution. I have before indicated this, with respect to the oesophagus; and I would add, that it is unnecessary to infer the existence of any'other protective means during life. As the secretion of the solvent depends in part on the presence of food, so we may suppose the production of mucus to depend on the irritation to which the surfaces are liable. It is not necessary to infer that food in the stomach is in- dispensable to the secretion of gastric-juice; for there is, pos- sibly, some kind of truth even in the reverse proposition. Certainly, in the successive periodic exaltations and subsi- dences of each function, the time comes when (with the capacity for food) the saliva and gastric-juice are ready to be produced in the greatest abundance; and if at this time the food be not supplied, the mucous secretions will be digested, as I have seen them acted on in the adult, and even chymified in the fffitus; but no doubt the distention produced by ingesta acce- lerates vascular actions and muscular movements, and thus all the process of digestion is facilitated. We are not to forget, however, that food may be in excess, or taken too soon, as the solvent may be wanting, or not ready. It is understood that the gall-bladder does not become dyed until after death; but one cause ofthis may be, that its whole12 Mr. T. JVilkinson King on the Stomach. tissues are bathed incessantly by capillary currents. The sud- denly obstructed gall-bladder loses all its bile during life, as I have often seen: and with regard to transudations in the left end of the stomach, besides the influence of protective mucus, and a nutrition proportioned to the varying exigencies of the part, there may be a removal (if needed) of transuding fluids by means of the capillary circulations. The occasional production of the gastric-juice is a specific thing. May not the force of the juice be always wholly expended on the food, and on pro- tective mucus, which may often be seen in different stages of digestive softening in one and the same stomach ? And what grounds, I would ask, are there for asserting a peculiar in- herent preservative power, besides simple nutrition, in a part enfeebled, or secretion on an irritated surface, or the like ? The aspect of the two ends of the healthy stomach, to the unassisted eye, sufficiently declares material differences of structure: and I have been informed, by a very competent microscopist—Mr. Quekett, of the College of Surgeons—that minute examination and inspections of the simple stomachs of mammalia abundantly corroborate this distinction. A few significant indications of peculiar function in either half of the stomach might be deduced from pathology. The morbid states of the left half are in a very unsatisfactory state in books; those of the right are compai'atively well known. Of course, for the purpose of the present case, the mucous membrane alone is to be considered. The thickenings, indu- rations, and chronic ulcers of the right portion are, I suppose, never to be matched with any thing in the cul-de-sac. I have met with some evidence as to the source of gastric- juice, through the means of its acid element, which will not be without weight in the minds of many. It was while conversing on the foregoing views—a stomach having been just laid open at a post-mortem inspection—that Mr. Hilton suggested to test the two ends with litmus; and I confess that I thought the experiment in vain, the body having been dead several hours, and there being no evident means by wbich the passage of the contents from one side to another could have been prevented (the parts had been removed from the body); yet it became evident that the acidity was great towards the left end, and but very slight towards the pylorus. This hint induced me to13 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. make the following experiments; which are recorded with a view also of illustrating several other points in the preceding pages. Case 1. John H., aged 66, died of stricture of the oesophagus in the neck, with acute surrounding suppurations and pleuritis. Twenty-six hours afterwards, the stomach contained near a pint of fluid, and shewed manifest signs of having been acted on by the gastric juice. The extreme cuticle of the oesophagus was partially lost and loosened; that within the first half-inch of the tube was much less affected; but above were broken lines and dots, both of cuticle and denuded surface, for two or three inches, but least superiorly. The cul-de-sac, and much of the lesser curvature, was af- fected internally, being thin ai^d soft, and of a pale, greenish- brown colour, opaque and dull; the larger veins being marked by the exudation of blackish blood. About tbe greater curva- ture, the mucous membrane seemed naturally even, granular, and pinkish, and coated with a thin, firm layer of whitish mucus; and about the pylorus it was in a similar state, but pale and mamelonate. Opposite the oesophagus, a sudden and clear boundary line was seen, of four or five inches in extent, transversely between the healthy and the thin and lacerable lining. This being well washed under the water-cock until the coat of mucus was separated in parts from the healthy surface (there was some on the other), little fragments of litmus-paper were strewed over the whole; and in a few seconds, all were red which fell on the digested surface, and only these distinctly. A long strip of blue paper was laid across the boundar y line; and the acid re-action slowly appeared on both sides of the line, but did not extend much more than a quarter of an inch to the right; and even this was more feebly marked. Case 2. .Tan. 27j 1842.—Catherine M., aged 18, a well-grown per- son, the subject of old bronchitis, and more recent pneumonia, was examined twenty hours after death. 3 he liver and kidneys were much congested. No part of the stomach appeared actually digested. TheMr. T. Wilkimon King on the Stomach. 14 right third only had a coat of mucus, which was loose and rather thick. The fluid contents were feebly acid; and, after repeated washing, the cul-de-sac only reddened litmus. The whole stomach was again well washed, spread out, and sprinkled with cuttings of litmus-paper, and set aside for twenty-four hours. The re-action was only evident to the left of the car- diac oi’ifice. Case 3. Jan. 13, 1842. Maria H., about 35 years of age, fat and intemperate, was found dead. The body was examined six hours from the probable time of her decease. There was much serous effusion in the head. The liver was tumid, and lacerahle. The stomacli contained only about an ounce of mucus, scented with gin, and not acid. The stomach, being washed under the water-cock, and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, exhibited acid re-action, in the cul-de-sac only, after twenty hours. Case 4. Jan. 15, 1842.—Mary W., aged 23, the subject of old and recent inflammations in the chest. The body was not wasted. The right heart was distended. The liver was tumid, pale, and coarse; the kidneys, plump, and dai’k. The stomach (forty hours after death), when laid open, was a little acid at all parts; but'after very free washing, a little softish patch in the cul-de-sac only reddened litmus slightly. Case 5. Jan. 15, 1842.—William W., aged 44, affected with renal disease, serous effusions, and soft vegetations on the corded valves of the heart. The stomach, fifty hours after death, was contracted, and lined with mucus which was not acid. The stomach, treated as heretofore, gave no sign of acidity in the course of forty-eight hours. Case G. Jan. 24, 1842.—James A., aged 48, suffering from diabetes, was early carried off in a kind of epileptic fit. The body was examined six hours afterwards.Mr. 7\ Wilkinson King on the Stomach. ^5 The storaach was large, and healthy. The left end, to the extent of a palm, was of a dull greyish hue, very thin and soft, and the centre was almost perfoi'ated. Next to this digested part was a wide, circular tract of mucous membrane, partially coated with ragged, flocculent, and softened mucus. The rest of the stomach—the larger half presented internally a healthy, pinkish, granular surface, defended by a firm, thin, adhesive, and opaquish mucus. The lower half of the oesophagus was considerably denuded of its cuticle; a ring of which, however, remained at the cardia entire; but even this was softened. The contents of the sto- mach were copious, dai*k, reddish, grey debris; watery, and acid. When washed, the left half of the stomach only was acid. After being again well washed and spread out, and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, it was set aside for twenty-four hours; when the acid re-action was complete over the digested surface, slightly evident over the adjacent tract, but altogether wanting over the right half of the stomach. Once more washed and treated as before, tbe digested end only evinced acidity. Case 7. Jan. 28, 1842.—Ann B., between 30 and 40 years of age, was tapped for the relief of ovarian dropsy. Peritonitis and vomiting brought on the fatal issue in eight or nine days. Examined thirty-six hours after death. The stomach was contracted. It contained everywhere a little bilious fluid, which scarcely acted on litmus. The sur- faces, after being washed and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, shewed no re-action, excepting slightly in the cul-de-sac, after half an hour. This was the only change visible at the end of twenty-four hours. Case 8. Feb. 1, 1842.—Mary F., aged 54, was carried oflf with gene- ral dropsy, indurated kidneys and liver, and a recurrent bron- chial attack. The stomach was examined four hours after death. It contained but little, and was acid at all parts; but, after being well washed under the water-cock, and set aside (sprinkled with litmus-cuttings) for twenty-four hours, no part evinced acidity.Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. IG Case 9. Feb. 3, 1842.— Thomas F., aged 31, died of phthisis, with * much indm-ation of the kidneys, and extreme hypertrophy of the liver. Examined twenty hours afterwards: the stomach contained much chymous matter, darkish, watery, and acid- The right third only was feebly coated with mucus: the left third only was acid, after being washed. The termination of the oesophageal cuticle was a little broken and loose; and then a zone of about half an inch was entire; but above this were several narrow lines denuded of cuticle. The little clear fluid in the pericardium was acid; also that in the right iliac fossa; and again, the exterior of the cul-de- sac of the stomach. It did not seem necessary to carry this mode of inquiry further; hut having twice, during the same period, had the opportunity of examining the stomach of animals, I shall state the result. A cat was poisoned with prussic acid, forced into the mouth ; and the stomach was examined twenty-four hours later. To- wards its right end was a decided hour-glass contraction; and there was in all parts a little nearly-digested grey fluid, every- where acid. The mucous coating of the left end was compara- tively feeble; and all the coats were here a little greyish, and discoloured by venous transudation. On being completely washed, and forcibly deprived of the mucous secretion and sprinkled with litmus-cuttings, it became quite apparent, in the course of half an hour, that all considerable re-action was con- fined to the parts to the left of the hour-glass contraction. A young pig was killed by the butcher; and the stomach soon after removed, and gently washed out by a small incision. It was not examined until full four days had elapsed; when being laid open and washed, a slight acid re-action was mani- fest in all parts, excepting the right fourth, which did not act on litmus-paper in twelve hours. In conclusion, I would hope that the following summary of processes are corroborated by what has gone before.Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. 17 Tlie functions of the stomach are sufficiently numerous. The first in the order of time seems to he that of a reservoir; and we cannot hut suppose that the supply of hlood to the gastric tunics must he least when they are contracted and devoid of stimuli from without, and vice versd. A full stomach is a source of compression and support to the blood-vessels around, which become comparatively empty with abstinence. Hence the first invigoration derived from food. Tlie absorption of fluids from the stomach may he regarded as the second considerable office of the part. Mr. Bracey Clark, after tying the duodenum of a horse, poured water into the stomach, and several pints were rapidly absorbed. Sir E. Home has recorded similar examples. This kind of supply is, of course, the readiest for the body generally; and while it necessarily produces active circulation, in many cases it is probably often made available to facilitate the secretion of gastric juice, &c. In summer, within a minute or two after drinking, the fluids are oozing out at every superficial pore; and a stimulating fluid best excites the activity of digestion, as it inclines to the reception of food. With regard, in the third place, to chymlfication, I would prefer to describe the left portion of the stomach as ovoid; and the (Esophagus, as opening into it abruptly, and only occasio- nally; and the recent food as more or less sinking into that which has preceded it. Thus, one continued action is, to convey the chyme superficially to the right; which is well seen in the dog recently fed with solid meat, and is only more difficult to establish when the contents remain most fliiid. In the fourth place, considering the mobility of the stomach; the impulses of respiration and circulation, in connexion with its freedom by means of the serous tunic and its varying capacity, are important items to add to its own muscular movement. Pressure and motion most materially affect the gradual propulsion of the contents towards the bowels, as well as the completion of digestion &c. The uses of the secretion I need not refer to again; unless to hint, that protective mucus both dilutes and filters the fluids to be admitted to the absorbent surfaces.18 Mr. T. Wilkinson King on the Stomach. Note.—Since concluding the above, I have examined a review of opinions on the softening of the stomach, by Dr. Henry Imlach, in the 47th Volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal (1837). Besides an extensive account of different writers, some additional experiments are related ; and the author favours the conclusion, that the gastricjuice is the agent. M. Louis, he states, has retracted all positive opinion; and it is left to, be inferred, which is indeed very certain, that the digestive actions of the stomach in children, as in the last stomach of the calf (both being for the time car- nivorous), are excessive. The accounts of gastromalachia, and Dr. John Gardner’s opinions of atrophia ablactatorum &c., require this reflection, (See the Transactions of the Medico- Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, Vol. I. 1825.)AN ESSAY ON FRACTURE. FROM THE SECOND VOLUME OF " THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL SURGERY." LONDON: PRINTED BY GILBERT & UIVINGTON, ST. JOHN’S SQUARE. 1842.,^ - J-;^ ;...AV ■ V • -1 s'* V ’•* ' ^ - M-.- • ; '> '^4 Hti ;■ ":.'.*.^t^^-^;Stl^^'.i. ^-•/-.^•«4 . * ■ ■.•■ '!■ ' ■* V . MT^j, _ ••■WWjtOT' ••» .d*t- ■ ■ s ■ ‘ ■ >a;' ' ‘ v-;; ’'ii-■ .• ' V - •" , :•■ ■■ V ‘ -Ts. ■ JT' •V, r>^<<l >«." • ■%'. y, • . \ '"■'r * • «< V' • V : ^ ♦»- «}■ <ra»V,»rff ••■>v Btfc« ’'IL ■?. T. 'O - ,s< li ^ j W- 'sTf ' ' r- -y :4 ?■ 't" ^ jM ,.«; N?>' 'VV'ss ria »■ A S':I^ ... <' ' ■ ij fjjint^ •K ■-f ' ^ ilte ,,. ^ S- -a :■’■■;■.‘'vT. %i;* ,-.v . ^ ^ •, ■ • ■■"^‘.•' ^-i-, . iht :r^v k:--mg^mm . 'T--*; . / b/ ■¥ .v^ -- .#■ 4 ' ' '‘-'»r ' LiX-t"' ■,4 ‘ •• .'Iff ■•?' -■ * :i ■^. , ,v-» a- . /ESSAY ON FRACTURE FRACTURE. (KXaaig,Kurayfia, Gr. Frac- tura, Lat., a fracture, from frango, I break. Beui-Bruch, Ger.) The solution of con- tinuity, or division, or separation of parts of a bone, by rupture, is called a frac- ture. The ordinary cause of fracture is violence from w’ithout; more rarely, mus- cular effort is the cause ; and occasionally, doubtless, these two causes act in concert, as when the patella or olecranon is simultane- ously struck and drawn upon by its extensor muscles. A bone may be divided by absorp- tion, as in consequence of the pressure of a tumour, and it is the consideration of this cir- Icumstance which makes the term rupture a necessary part of the systematic definition of fracture. In every case of division of bone, we shall find either a reparative, or a disorganizing train of events, the history of which is replete with the liveliest interest to the right-minded surgeon. In the extensive field of surgery there are not many departments, in which our noble art is capable of conferring greater or more fre- quent benefits on humanity, than in that which relates to fractures. In cases of every day’s occurrence, well directed art will restore its I natural strength, and form, and functions, to a 4 fractured bone ; which ignorance, or unaided ■ nature, would leave shortened and deformed, ■with the harmony between the moving gpowers and the joints so broken, by the change ■ of the relative situations of the muscles and •bones, as greatly to impair the usefulness of Ian entire limb. Even in cases apparently I trivial, as in a simple rupture of so small a Ibone as the patella, or a fracture of the lower • extremity oi the fibula, a skilful surgeon will ■effect a perfect cure, where, without his in- ■terference, there would be irremediable dis- ci tortion and weakness ; and in cases of cx- » treme severity, a bold and judicious operation '■ will substitute a simple wound, with a fair '< prospect of speedy recovery, for a compli- cated injury, which, left to nature, would lead to certain death, with perhaps far more suffer- ing than the knife inflicts. Fig. 1. Femur broken with much displacement and erroneous union. One broken end has undergone the. process which follows amputation., the other adheres bg bone to the side of the upper fragment., the fteriosicum of which has been pressed bg the broken bone., absorbed at a central part, and injkimcd around, so as to cause theformation of new bone, which together reilh that on the opposing broken end has consolidated the union. Let not the surgical student fall into the gross error,so stronglyandjustly reprobated by i?ott, of supposing that the treatment of frac-4 FRACTURE. tures is a simple matter, not demanding mucli ex- pense in time and study to master the knowledge it requires. No man will ever treat fractures well who has not, in the first place, acquired a compe- tent knowledge of the ana- tomy of the bones, espe- cially of the relative situa- tions of those prominent points which can be felt through the soft parts, so that he may at once detect aderangement oftheirna- tural relations; secondly, who is not so accurately acquainted with the at- tachments and actions of the muscles, as to be ena- bled,in any givenfracture, to predict the probable amount of displacing Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fi'^s. 2, 3, and 4, are intended to show the manner in which nature, left entirely to her own resources, repairs f ractures. Fig 2 is the humerus of a swan, which had been broken about the middle. The figure, which is taken from a preparation in the Royal Collepe oj Surgeons in Ireland, is about the fifth of the size of the pre- varation. The union, which is stronaer tlmn the oriainal cylinder, is effected by dense hone forming two arches (one very strong), separated by the opening, d. The fragments are separated by at least an inch, the shortening is somewhat greater, and the upper and lower portions of the bone form an inconsiderable anale with one another, a The head of the humerus; b, the opemna by which the cavity of the bone communicated with the air-cells; c, tlw cavity of the bone. No attempt has been made to close this, or the corresponding opening, whwh us on the concealed side of the loiver fragment, with callus; d a large foramen in the callus separating the tivo bi'mg arches which unite the fragnwnts; e, the distal eorlrcmily of the bone. Figs 3 4 are the femora of a wild rabbit, one of which had been broken and perfectly untied. The figures are about two thirds the length of the orufinal hones. The shortening is about equivalent to three inches in the adult human femur, and the i trochlea for the pedeUa is slightly turned inwards. In other respects the fracture has been remarkably well repaired; a, a, the heads of the femora ; b, b, the great trochanters; o, c, the lesser trochanters; d, d, the pulley surfaces for the patella; e, the situation of the fracture. force, as well as the direction of the displaced fragments, and, consequently, to form a correct judgment respecting the means to be had recourse to for restoring and main- taining the natural relations of the parts; and, thirdly, who has not acquired manual dexterity in the management of them, by the frequent and careful application of the bandages, splints, and other parts of the appa-- ratusthey require. A knowledge of the parti-- culars just mentioned is requisite for the treat-- ment of the simplest cases, but in those of; a serious nature, as severely complicated: fractures, the practitioner should be able to call up every resource of knowledge, ex-- perience, and tact; for he will have to contend; with the dangers arising from fever of various- kinds and degrees of intensity, according to the nature of the accident, or the constitution of the patient ; with violent spasms in the fractured limb ; with high inflammation and! tumefaction, threatening gangrene, or lead- ing to suppuration ; with matter diffused, orr collected in large and numerous abscesses; with gangrene itself, circumscribed, or extend-- ing to a greater or less portion of the limb ;; with the laceration of the main artery of* the part, rendering it necessary to cut down > upon and secure the vessel, amid.st the con-- fusion of parts occasioned by the effusion of’ blood, or to expose and tie it at some higherr point. Lastly, in cases of the greatest degree: of severity, the surgeon is called upon at the. moment to resolve, and act upon his reply to the question—as difficult and delicate as any. that the whole practice of surgery presents— whether in the case before him, weighing all its circumstances with that true humanity, w’hich will not hesitate to operate where an operation is positively indicated, immediate amputation should be performed, or whether’ the nature of the injury is such as to afford a reasonable hope of preserving both the life, and the limb of the patient, and to justify the surgeon in not having immediate recourse to the knife. The rapid sketch 1 have just given, entitles me, I think, to assert, that there is- no class of cases in surgery, which requires more anatomical knowledge, nicer experience and judgment (medically and surgically), or greater dexterity of manipulation, tlian that of fractures. When we regard the frequency and great: variety of fractures, the different causes which induce them, the numerous and fearful injuries which may attend them ; and when we contem])late the course and the treatment’ and the consequences of fractures and of all their complications, we find a subject, the right comprehension of which cannot be’FRACTURE. 5 attained witliout tlie most deliberate exami- nation. Before the study of particular fractures, there are many general considerations which demand the attention of the practitioner, if he would he prepared to determine readily on the nature and treatment of inaividual cases, as they may be presented to him. We shall, therefore, tirst, in a general way, dwell on the Causes of Fractubes ; their Varieties, Signs and Prognosis, Natural Reparation, and Surgical Treatment. causes of fractures. A knowledge of the causes of fractures seems to be the first natural step towards the dia- gnosis, and right management of them ; and these causes are to be considered according as they are jiredisposing or remote, and efficient or proximate. The first kind may be divided into the local and the general. The local jiredisposing causes.—The super- ficial situation of one bone exposes it more par- ticularly to become fractured from direct vio- lence : whilst a more protected situation leaves another little liable to be acted on but by counterstroke, or by violence communicated through intervening bone. The activity of the hands and lower limbs exposes them both to frequent injuries from without, but the sus- taining duty of the latter subjects them to ad- ditional dangers from sudden and irregular dispositions of the weight of the body. This also applies to the upper extremity, when it is made to support the body, as in falling. The clavicle, both from its site and office, is infi- nitely more liable to fracture than the sca- pula, which is better protected by soft parts, is placed on the back of the thorax, out of the way of injuries, and does not, as the clavicle, form a buttress to sujiport the body, when it alights on the shoulder, or when the elbow or hand is stretched out to break the fall. Sometimes a tumor, on or within a bone, causes pressure and absorption to such an extent that very slight violence or muscular effort completes the division. Of the general predisposing causes of frac- ture, the most certain operates in a similar way to the last named. The formation of cancerous tubercles may produce the absorption of bony niatter in various bones at the same time. In subjects affected, as it is said, with cancerous diathesis, the bones are often much more rich in earthy particles, as well as more slender and porous f Sanson) ; and, in truth, per- sons are liable to fracture from atrojihy, both by the prevalence of tubercle, and by a more simple hypertrophy of medullary tissue. The last is sometimes described as cancerous, when perhaps its nature is widely different. Rickety conditions of the skeleton, in youth or advanced^ ago, may occupy the next place as causes. The precise character of these affections has not been made out, although the accounts render it probable that it is not al- ways the same, but various. Professor Gibson of Philadelphia relates several cases of this kind in his Institutes and Practice of Surgery. In one, occurring in his own practice, fie sajs,—“ The bones of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg, have all been broken repeat- edly, even from so trivial an accident as catching the foot in a fold of carpet, whilst walking across the room. The clavicles have suffered more than any other bone—having been fractured eight times. What is remark- able, the boy has always enjoyed excellent health, and the bones have united without much difficulty, or much deformity.” This patient died at the age of twenty-three, having experienced twenty-four fractures. “ M. Esquirol has in his anatomical collection the skeleton of arachiticfemale,in which nearly all the bones of the limbs and trunk are covered with traces of fractures, more or less conso- lidated : many of them are broken in two, three, or four points of their extent. These fractures, wdiose number reaches above two hundred, appear to have been effected at different epochs, judging from the nature of the various consolidations'.” The skeleton of the chest of an aged female lunatic, softened and deformed, with almost countless fractures of the ribs, as described above, is to be seen in the museum of Guy’s Hospital, and, indeed, such effects of extreme fragility, both in youth and old age, are only to be spoken of as rather uncommon. It is difficult to estimate the precise nature of the dependences of fractures upon different periods of life. Fractures occur at every period of life after the ossification of the bones ; but there are some differences between them, connected with the time of life, worth noting. Strength is the character of the adult bone, flexibility of the infantile, and fragility of the senile. I shall have hereafter occasion to mention the incomplete fractures of the long bones, and the separation of epiphyses from the shafts, as peculiar to the early period of life. Old age is marked by the great frequency of frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone. With old age comes atrophy of the bones, and a proportional increase of their saline com- ponents ; both of which changes render them more fragile, and would cause fractures in advanced life to be very frequent indeed, if the bones were exposed to such concussions as they endure with impunity in youth. The general influence of scurvy is tolerably well established. On this subject, “ Leveillc recommends us to peruse Marcellus Donatus; Saviard’s Observations ; Heynede Morbis Os- sium ; Poupart’s Works inserted in the Mem. de I’Acad. des Sciences, 1699: and the trea- tise ])ublished at Verona, in 1761, by Jean de Bona. To these works 1 would add Lord Anson’s Voyage, in which the cficct of iho scurvy in producing the absorption of the ' .1. Clotpict, Diet, de Med. BFRACTURE. () callus of old fractures, and a disjunction of the fragments, is very curiously exemijlitied.” — S. Cooper’s Surg. Diet. The effects of gout and syphilis in facili- tating fracture fire uncertain, although a variety of facts are adduced by authors. “ These facts,” says Sanson, “ are real, but is it to the action of syphilis on the bone, or to that of mercury which had been taken for a long time by all the individuals whose cases are recorded, that we should attribute fracture ? ” The answer probably is, that the osseous sys- tem, like the rest of the body, is more or less prone to atrophy under the influence of all debilitating causes. Poisons, medicines, dis- use, are certain predisposing causes of frac- ture, and even wasting of the cutaneous and other coverings. The fact, that influences opposite to the above are opposed to fracture, is well known, and corroborates the foregoing remarks. The form and proportions of the skeleton may favour or impede fracture. A man with a delicate skeleton falls on his head, and symptoms of cerebral oppression follow. The prognosis is more serious than in the case of a stout bony person. Undue de- velopment of muscle, while it produces frac- ture, or assists to produce it, is also a grave cause of the displacement of fragments and difficulties in treatment. Severe cold has been spoken of as a general predisposing cause ; but the greater fre- quency of falls, and the hardness of the ground, sufficiently account for the greater number of fractures that take place in frosty weather, without supposing that cold has any specific effect in producing fragility of the bones. The efficient causes of fracture are internal or external. Muscular action is the only internal efficient cause. It occasionally rup- tures the patella, and rarely the olecranon, the os calcis, and even some other bones, as the humerus and femur; although, if we ex- clude the doubtful cases which are recorded, and those in which some disease had pro- bably induced unnatural fragility, the long bones should scarcely be mentioned as liable to spontaneous fracture. Spasms, epilepsy, throwing a stone, and sudden effort to regain the equilibrium of the body, are recorded as having induced fractures of the thigh-bone, the tibia, or the humerus. A furious maniac, con- fined in a chair at Charenton, threw his head violently forwards, and produced separation between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, with fracture, and died in thirty-six hours '. Far the greatest number of fractures are the result of external efficient causes. These act directly or indirectly. The passage of a wag- gon-wheel over a limb, a violent blow, a fall from a scaffold on any hard body, are, in the first instance, direct external efficient causes. The external efficient cause is indirect-w\\cn it acts at a distance from the point at vvhich the fracture takes place. Sujrpose a fall on the ' Gaz. Meil. Nov. 27, IfJ'tl. elbow to result in a fracture of the hu- merus in any part of its length. The re- sistance of the ground acting at one extremity of the bone, and the falling body at the other, tend to bend it beyond what its elasticity admits of, and it yields at some point more or less distant from those at which the force and resistance are applied. In this, or any similar case, the external efficient cause is said to be indirect. The fracture is generally of a more serious nature when the cause acts directly than when it acts indirectly; because, in the former case, the fracture is necessarily complicated by contusion or laceration of the investing soft parts. Another variety may occur, combining an external with an internal cause, the latter acting passivelv. .This case is not of very uncommon occur- rence at the ankle-joint, in cases of dislo- cation with fracture. The external vio- lence acts through the ligaments, which, in- stead of yielding, tear off the malleoli into which they are inserted; and thus they are passive causes of fracture. A very sin- gular case of this nature occurred in the Richmond hospital, under the care of Dr. Hutton, three or four years ago. A young man, of about twenty-five years of age, was thrown to the ground with great violence, in wrestling. On rising he found himself unable to walk from pain in the knee. The joint and limb, for some distance above and below, quickly swelled, and became excessively painful. High fever, with great constitutional disturb- ance, and frequent starting of the limb at night, soon set in ; and the patient died in about three weeks; symptoms of intense pleuro- pneumonia on the side of the injury, and of the same affection commencing on the other, having preceded death a few days. The joint was found full of pus, with flakes of lymph ; the synovial membrane was of a bright scarlet ; and a portion of the spine and articulating surfaces of the tibia, nearly as lai’ge as a crown piece, was found torn from the head of the bone, and adhering to the anterior crucial ligament. The preparation is in the Museum of the Richmond hospital, and a drawing of it has been published by Mr. Adams in the article ‘Knee-joint’ of the Cyclopmdia of Anatomy. VARIETIES OF FRACTURES. It has been customary, after the manner of the French, to speak in this place of the dif- ferences of fractures ; and it will not require much reflexion to show that our general con- siderations should include a concise arrange- ment and account of all the varieties of frac- ture. The proper or systematic place for such an exposition would probably be imme- diately jireceding the history of particuhir fractures ; and, indeed, this is the order to be recommended for tlie student. The varieties of fractures noticed by dif- ferent writers are very numerous. I shall dwell chiefly iijion those which are ol interest or importance in practice. It will be usefulFRACTURE. 7 to give some idea of the comparative fre- quency of fractures of different bones. The following table ‘ is quoted as a satisfactory approximation to the truth. FRACTURES OF THE 1 NUMBER. CURED. RELIEVED, OR DISCHARGED BY REQUEST. DIED. AMPUTATIONS. Thigh 118 92 9 17 2 Leg 293 241 11 41 14 Cranium .... 46 14 2 30 Patella 16 14 2 Spine 8 1 7 Sternum 5 4 1 Clavicle 84 75 7 2 Arm 250 216 22 12 9 Fingers 9 8 1 Scapula 10 8 1 1 Elbow 2 1 1 Nose 3 3 Jaw 19 12 1 6 Pelvis 5 5 Foot 12 10 2 4 Ribs 46 39 2 5 Unnamed.... 2 2 Compound frac- ture of the Pelvis 1 1 Knee 2 1 1 2 Thigh 15 4 1 10 946 749 62 135 31 Admitted asl un - united >- 13 9 2 2 Fractures. .J Total. . . 959 758 64 137 31 Now, according to the above, the following is the order in point of frequency in which the more common fractures occur, namely, Fractures of the Leg, Upper extremity, Tliigh, Clavicle, Ribs, Skull, Jaws, Patella, Foot, Scapula, Fingers, Spine. It may be worth while to remember that J certain circumstances will somewhat modify i the inferences to be deduced from the above, i We may suppose that slight or mild cases of ’ fracture (as of the fibula) would rather 1 increase the number set down to the leg, the clavicle, and especially the fore-arm, the I fingers and foot. Again, perhaps, the proportion of skull- ' Statistics of Fractures and Dislocations treated in ( the Pennsylvania Hospital during the Ten Years from 1830 to 1839 inclusive. By George W. Norris, I M.D., one of the Surgeons to the Institution. See I the American .Journal of the Medical Sciences, April 1841. ' fractures ought to be a little _ increased to include immediately fatal injuries which, are not brought to a hospital, and the same is to bo observed for all the bones of the trunk. Not a few cases of fractured ribs are treated in private. It may be supposed that the fractures of the thigh are all enumerated, and that, like all the severer cases brought in for treatment, they refer to the widest range of population. The number is possibly a little too high for fractured scapulae, the diagnosis of which is somewhat uncertain, and examples of which are very scanty in museums h The fractures of the carpus are not stated apart from those of the fore-arm with which they are so often combined, and, doubtless, some cases of broken leg include injury to the tarsal bones, as we commonly find. Two hundred and twenty urgent cases of fracture were admitted at Guy’s hospital in one year ; and the following are the varieties, and their respective numbers : FRACTURES OF THE Nos. Reported, open, or compound. Femur 48 Tibia & fibula. 36 Tibia 13 Fibula 13 4 ... 66 10 Humerus.... 30 2 18 18 Ribs 11 emphysema. 4 Patella 8 Radius 4 Ulna 1 Olecranon . . . 2 Radius & Ulna 4 ... 11 1 Clavicle 5 Skull 4 Ossa Nasi. . . . 3 B? Lower Jaw . . 3 3? 1 Great Toe . 21 Astragalus . 1 J- 4 3 Spine .... 1 j Of bones, not i mentioned, of difficult 1 diagnosis, as about great joints, &c. 220 It will be needless here to inquire particu- larly after the fractures of those bones which are least liable to injury ; and the facts, con- cerning the particular parts of each bone, which are most exempt from, and most liable to, fracture, will be most available when we come to consider the bones individually. Independently of the varieties of fracture ' For instance, writers describe, and surgeons dia- gnosticate, fracture of the neck of the scapula; and some seem to suppose that this injury may occur fre- quently ; hut 1 liavc never been able to find an example in proof, nor have I ever heard or read of a dissected specimen of the accident. There seem to be many reasons why it should take place with difficulty, even if it happen at all, as a simple fracture. n 28 FRACTURE. produced by the dilference of their causes, it is evident tliat long, and Hat, and cubical bones, must be diHerently affected by any one kind of violence ; and the same may be said also of cancellated or spongy bone,and that which is more dense or brittle. The cylindrical, and especially the long bones, are most prone to yield towards their middle points, and more or less transversel}', or rather with some slight obliquity and irregnlarities ; flat bones are mostly affected in the way of indentations and fissures, linear or starry ; and the smaller and cubical bones are chiefly subject to kinds of crushing violence. Cancellated bone has its fibres mainly perpendicular to the planes of supporter pressure, or in the line of muscular and ligamentous extension ; and the course of fracture necessarily inclines to the direction of the fibres, but reticular bone is also liable to a kind of indentation, and to be deeply penetrated, as by sharp fragments of bone, in what are called impacted fractures. In the next place, we find that fractures ditfei’ with respect to the displacement of the parts of the broken bones. The dis- placements vary greatly in degree, and, as we have already said, they must depend much on the degree and nature of the vio- lence applied ; and, again, on the form and strength of the bones concerned, as well as the influence of muscles and of gravitation. The displacements of fragments of flat bones are sometimes considerable, in the form of indentations or of overlapping ; but setting aside the injuries which involve such vital organs as the brain or the spinal marrow, the most important displacements, as well as the most frequent, are those affecting the long bones. Fractures differ with respect to the displace- ment of the fragments of the broken bone. These displacements are longitudinal, lateral, rotatory, and angular. The first kind is of great and common interest to surgeons. It is often caused by the force producing the fracture not being spent in the breaking of the bone, but driving the fragments past one another, so that they ride. A more common cause is the action of the muscles on the lower frag- ment, or on the limb which articulates with it. This cause is constantly in operation after the accident, and tends, continually, to reproduce the deformity, after it has been re- moved by the hand of the surgeon. Indeed, it is usually asserted, that, besides the effect of the violence producing the accident, this is the only cause of shortening : but this is not strictly correct, and it is of importance to be aware of the error. In the course of the reparation of fracture, gravitation, or the pres- sure of the patient’s body, may induce over- laj)ping, and although the lower fragment be maintained, mechanically, in jjrecisely the same position as the corresponding part of the opposite limb, yet an accurate admea- surement may detect a difference of lengthy between the limbs. In a fracture of the neck of the femur treated with Ilagcdorn’s splint, if the body of the patient in bed be drawn to the side of the injury, so as to lower the crest of the ilium on that side, the distance between the anterior superior sj)inous process of the ilium, and the point of the external malle- olus on the injured, as compared with the sound side, will be diminished. The shorten- ing of the limb, in this case, is owing to the descent of the ilium with the upper fragment; although it is obvious that the same shorten- ing might be owing to the contraction of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. “ It is principally,” says Boyer, “ to the muscles which are attached to the lower fragment, or to the limb with which this fragment articulates, that the displacement is to be attributed. Suppose the humerus to be frac- tured between its superior extremity and the point where the insertion of the jjectoralis major takes place, this muscle, aided by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, draws the lower fragment inwards, and displaces it by drawing it to the inside of the upper frag- ment, which remains undisturbed, on account of its shortness ; and further, because nothing provokes the action of the muscles which are attached to it. In the fracture of the neck of the femur, the upper fragment, inclosed in the ilio-femoral articulation, gives attachment to no muscle ; all those attached to the lower fragment draw it upwards and backwards, and the displacement in this direction is inevitable. In all fractures in which the inferior fragment is carried along in all the movements that the limb with which it articulates executes, the muscles which are attached to the bones of which that limb is composed, become a pow- erful cause of displacement : it is in this man- ner that in the fracture of the femur, the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membrano- sus muscles, draw the leg, and with it the inferior fragment, upwards, inwards, and back- w'ards, and make it pass up on the inner, and somewhat posterior side of the upper frag- ment, the extremity of which then projects anteriorly and externally. In fracture of the leg, the gastrocnemius, soleus, and peronci, draw the inferior fragments of the tibia and fibula, and make them glide along the external and posterior side of the upper fragments; for here, as everywhere else, the strongest muscles, in producing the dis])lacement, draw towai’ds themselves the fragment upon which they act ; and as the posterior muscles of the leg prevail, in number and force, over the an- terior, and as those placed externally are not counterbalanced by any muscle, the displace- ment must needs be backwards and outwards. We might then, sup])Osing a fracture at any point of the length of a bone, determine d priori, from an anatomical knowledge of the muscles, in what direction the dis])laccment must occur ; supposing, further, that we op- pose no resistance to the muscular action, and that the displacement depends solely upon this cause ’ Hoycr, Miiladics Cliinirpiralcs. torn. iii. p. K>. Tliesu opiiiioiiB bcrvc vctv well for iiulividiial illustia-FRACTURE. 9 When the surfaces of a transverse fracture of a long bone have been moved along one another, without entirely ceasing to be in apposition, as when the centre of one ap- proaches an edge of the other, the displace- ment is said to be lateral, or according to the diameter. Of course, also, some lateral dis- placement always attends fractures with short- ening. Rotatory displacement exists when one of the fragments is made, by the weight of the limb, the action of muscles, or any other cause, partially to revolve, so that the corresponding points of the circumference of the fragments no longer lie opposite one another. In cases liable to this displacement, great attention should be given to prevent the consolidation of the fracture with the verj' inconvenient deformity it would occasion. I have known this deformity to arise in a fracture of the upper part of the femur, after the supposed cure, by the weight of the limb constantly acting on the imperfectly consolidated callus, so that eventually, while the patient lay in bed fairly on the back, the injured limb rested on the outside of the knee and outer edge of the foot. When the fragments form an angle with each other, the displacement is said to be according to their direction, or angular. This deformity may be an immediate effect of the cause of the fracture ; or it may be caused by the action of the muscles which lie behind or beneath the angle ; or, as not unfrequently happens, it may be occasioned by the plane on which the fractured limb rests not being judiciously disposed, so as to maintain each fragment at a proper elevation. Suppose a fracture of both bones of the leg about its middle, if the heel is not sufficiently sup- ported, the limb resting on its posterior sur- face, the upper and lower fragments will form an angle, salient anteriorly ; if, on the con- trary, the heel is too much elevated, an angular displacement will be the result, the angle being salient backwards. It frequently happens, that more than one, sometimes that all, of these displacements are met with in the same fracture : thus, in a fracture of the femur a little below' the lesser trochanter, the action of the biceps, &c. draw- ing the lower fragment upwards, inwards, and backwards, will give rise to a longitudinal dis- placement, accompanied, of necessity, with that in the direction of the diameter ; the psoas and iliacus internus muscles will draw forwards the lower end of the upper frag- ment, and thus cause an angular deformity, while the limb, gravitating till it comes to lie on its outside, rotates the inferior fragment, producing the displacement according to the circumference. Occasionally there exists no sensible displacement; as, in some incomplete fractures, in those where the bone is merely I fissured, and in some impacted fractures, and, I tioriB, but the general expression of tlicrn is smnewliat too theoretical anti partial, as will appear from the study of particular fiacturcs. lastly, where one bone of a part being broken, an adjacent bone acts as a splint, and thus ren- ders the displacement inapjireciable. Trans- verse fractures, in situations where the bone is thick, as near the head of the tibia, and in which the periosteum has not suffered much, are accompanied with inconsiderable defor- mity. Varieties relating to the line or surface of fractures,—We have already hinted at some of these ; but it is necessary to remark, con- cerning long bones, that these fractures differ according to the direction in which the rup- ture of the bony tissue takes place ; thus, we may have transverse, oblique, and longi- tudinal fractures. The transverse are much less common than oblique fractures. They occasionally occur at all periods of life in the spongy tissue of the extremities of bones ; very rarely in the compact tissue of the shaft, except in early life, w’hen they are much more frequent than in the adult, or in old age. They are more easily managed than oblique or longitudinal fractures, and admit of cure, with little or no deformity. Oblique fractures are by much the most common. They are met with of every degree of obliquity, from that approaching to trans- verse to one approaching to longitudinal. The oblique surfaces commonly glide w'ith ease on one another under the influence of any external force, or in obedience to muscles drawing the lower fragment upwards. Hence, in this kind of fracture, it is frequently very difficult to maintain the fragments in just ap- position, and to prevent, during the consolida- tion of the fracture, a certain degree of shorten- Figs. 5. nFRACTURE. 10 ing of the limb. The common character of the fracture of a shaft is obliquity and raggedness ; and rarer traits are fissures and the separation of several fragments constitut- ing simple comminuted fracture. Fractures in a longitudinal direction are of rare occurrence. Their existence has been denied by such high authorities as Boyer, Petit, and Louis ; but it appears to me to be quite unreasonable to deny the possibility of a fracture in any direc- tion ; and, in point of fact, gun-shot fractures have not unfrequentlj' this direction. The accompanying figures (3), from the Patho- logic Chirurgicale of J. Cloquet, give ex- amples of longitudinal fracture, the one caused by a fall from the roof of a house, the other by a musket ball. It sometimes happens that a fourth or a fifth of the length of the tibia above its middle is detached by transverse fractures, and di- vided by a longitudinal rent; and the same kind of injury is in a manner proper to the femur, between its middle and the trochanter minor. Fig. 6. The upper half of the osfemoris, in which a double, transverse, and a lon<)ittidinal fracture have occurred and been repaired. The upper broken end ha^ been drawn forward, causing considerable deformity. 7 he bony union is only aliundant where needed, and where there ivas some contact of bones or continuity of pvn- osteal buTuls, and not where the inj^mniatoiy tfrn~ sion must have been greatest, namely in the wide longi- tudinal fissures.—Museum of St. Thomas's Ifospilal. We have in part explained the occurrence of longitudinal fractures at the inferior end of the tibia, femur, and humerus. An Austrian at Marengo was struck by a ball on the lower third of the tibia ; he walked several miles, but was obliged to undergo amputation above the knee. The impression of the ball was distinct, and from it ran ob- lique fissures, and one longitudinal, dividing the bone to near its upper expansion h Longitudinal fractures are caused more par- ticularly by bullet wounds, but not necessarily so. It cannot be very profitable to inquire whpther a perfectly simple or uncomplicated fissure can take place in the solid shafts. There is a form or method of displacement in the longitudinal direction known by the name of impacted fracture—one broken extre- mity being driven into that which is opposed to it. The spongy end of a long bone may yield to the thrust of its broken shaft, and such are almost the only examples of impacted fracture. The attendant deformity, and short- ening of the limb, are necessarily limited, and often very slight. Impacted fracture, which may be attended with fissures, is a kind of complication of com- plete fracture, since a part must be exten- sively detached from its natural solid connex- ions, and thrust to some distance between elastic layers or fibres of bone, and be grasped by them, to constitute a truly impacted frac- ture. Fig. 7. Fig. 7 is a diagram representing the inner section of the infenor end of the tibia. There is a fracture, impacted and attended with rotatory displacement, by reason of which a long point is seen drivcti into • the cancelli below and only a short one above. There was not more than half an inch of actual shortening of the Hmb. At the base of the inner nuilleolus is seen a sini])le fissure, which e.rtended about two vtches up ' LcTcille.FRACTURE. U the shaft. The parts are in the museum at Guy's Hospital; they were taken from a female of ahout forty-fire years of age, %uho fell from a chair in which she had been standing, and alighted on her foot. At the end of three u-e'eks the only appearances of repair were slight bony masses scattered beneath the periosteum over the surfaces of the fragments, and over the fissure. The fracture teas simple, and the patient was carried qjf by fever and visceral inflam- mation. Of flexed or hent bone.—Modern surgeons are divided on the question, whether we should admit that fractures may differ according as they are complete or incomplete ; but I do not hesitate to resolve it in the affirmative. Some cases of impacted fracture, and fis- sures in flat bones, where the rupture of the osseous tissue does not extend to both sur- faces, or actually separate any fragment from the bone, are, I think, to be looked upon as incomplete fractures. The result of violence applied to any of the long bones, in early life, is not unfrequently an angular deformity, without crepitus or mo- bility of the bone in the situation of the injury, plainlj"^ arising from an incomplete or partial fracture. In these cases, the fracture will almost always be rendered complete, in the attempt to restore the natural direction of the bone, without great caution and gentleness on the part of the surgeon. Mr. Hart, in a paper on this kind of fracture, in the first num- ber of the “ Dublin Journal of Medical Science,” justly assigns the large proportion of animal matter in the young bone as the cause of this peculiar fracture of childhood. The late Mr. How'ship preserved a speci- men of defined angular yielding in an infant’s femur. This example is now in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital, with some others. The peculiar appearance of these incomplete frac- tures may be very easily produced experi- mentally in young bones, so that the general fact need not be doubted, although the term, imperfect fracture, does not well express it. It must appear more reasonable to employ the term, flexed, or bent bone. Chaussier and others have recorded many cases of fracture occurring during intra-uterine life. They are usually the consequence of some external violence to which the mother has been exposed before the birth of the child, or of force used at the birth; injudiciously, or of necessity, in effecting delivery by art. Chaussier has met, in the same foetus, with a great number of fractures, which could not be attributed to violence, and to which he has therefore given the name of spontaneous frac- tures. There was a remarkable example of this kind, in which each of the long bones presented one or more of these lesions, some of which were recent, others beginning to unite, whilst others wmre consolidated. 1 he child survived its birth only seventy-four hours. Somewhat similar cases have been reported by Gardner and Glokcngicser; and there arc evident analogies between such cases, and those of rickety fractures already described. There is an injury to which bones arc liable from violence, in the earliest periods of life, which is somewhat different from ordinary frac- ture, inasmuch as the osseous tissue itself may remain intact. I allude to the forcible sepa- ration of an epiphysis from the shaft of a bone, or the disunion of the distinct parts of which a child’s bone is composed, as when the head of the femur is driven through the acetabulum into the pelvis, severing the three parts of which the os innominatum consists in early life. This is a subject of considerable import- ance, to which I shall return. The same general principles of treatment are applicable to the three cases, — fracture, flexure, and separation of the epiphyses of bones. Varieties which depend on the degrees of in- jury done to the parts around the fracture.— A distinction between fractures, of great interest in practice, is founded on the degree of injury inflicted on the soft parts, either by the fractured bone itself, or by the external violence that produced the fracture. In this point of view fractures are distinguished into simple and complicated. A simple fracture is one in which the force producing it is entirely or nearly expended in effecting the fracture, and in which the soft parts have suffered but little. It is scarcely possible for a fracture to take place without some mischief to the soft parts, such as more or less tearing of the periosteum, and injury to the muscles in immediate contact with the bone. A simple fracture does not necessarily in- volve much more than the essentials of frac- ture—a fissure of separation, sanguineous effusion, and slight lesions of the superjacent periosteum ; but it is customary among sur- geons to regard most fractures as simple, although there be some comminution, and considerable displacements, as well as lacera- tion of periosteum, cellular membrane, and muscle, and even some contusion. Extrava- sated blood, to the amount of drachms, or even ounces, is not usually thought to deprive a fracture of the simple character, unless under peculiar circumstances ; for, it is ever to be remembered, the foundation of this valuable and truly surgical distinction is in the practical knowledge, that the course of reparation in such fractures is simple ; that is, ill the general, without danger, or material iuterrujition. Complicated Fractures. — Whenever any common circumstance of sinqile fracture is met with in a materially excessive or trouble- some degree, the case should, at least in a practical sense, be styled complicated. Im- moderate displacement, comminution, lacera- tion of muscle or membrane, and extravasation, constitute the first order of complications. To entitle a fracture to rank as a strictly complicated one, the lesion of the soft parts must be of a serious nature, cither from the extent of the injury, its opening a communi- cation with the air, or its engaging some important part.12 FRACTURE. OJ open, exposed, or compound fractures.— The most important and frequent complica- tion has hitherto been known in our lanjjuage by the term compound fracture ; but it may, 1 conceive, be much more readily understood by the name of open or e.vpnsed fracture. In the nomenclature of French surgery a compound fracture has justly a very difierent meaning from that hitherto usually attached to it by us. When a bone is broken in two or more jilaces, or when the bones of the fore-arm or leg are simply divided, the case is called by French surgeons a “ fracture composee.” It is pretty generally apparent, both at home and abroad, that we are in fault in the use of the term compound ; and it cannot be denied, that the most definite expressions are desirable in such cases, both for the sake of the teacher and the pupil, the author and the reader. It is, therefore, without hesita- tion, though not without full deliberation, that the term compound is excluded from this trea- tise. Open fracture then is one in which a com- munication is established, either at the time of the fracture, or subsequently, between the frac- ture and the external air. If established at the time of the accident, either the agent producing the fracture penetrates to the bone, or, as more frequently happens, one of the fragments, usu- ally the upper, is driven through the integu- ments. When the communication with the exterior is not effected at the time of the ac- cident, it is owing, sometimes to the severity of the contusion of the soft parts over the fracture, which, in a few days, slough, and ex- pose the bone, sometimes to the formation and bursting of an abscess in the seat of the fracture, sometimes to the pressure of the extremity of one of the fragments, not kept properly reduced, causing the ulceration of the skin. In whatever way produced, this is an aggravation of the injury much more serious than we might, previously to expe- rience, suppose. On the whole, there are but few bones that can be said to be ordinarily liable to this kind of injury. Almost every inch of bone is equally obnoxious to gun-shot wounds, and such as are of the nature of a stab ; so that on the field of battle nearly every kind of open fracture that may occur from direct force is to be looked for ; ex- cept that the statistics ought rather to be in favour of honourable wounds and of su- perficial parts. Again, the crushing injuries of overwhelming violence affect all parts ; but while one series |)uts an end to life, another, arf'ectiiig less vital parts, constitutes a class of open fractures, which usually require the treat- ment of the surgeon. A solution of continuity effected in a bone by incision, as when the humerus, for example, is divided by a sabre-cut,is a peculiar fracture. Some of the circumstances attending such wounds of bone, render them more unman- ageable ami difficult of cure, than mere frac- ture. Of these circumstances the most import- ant are the following. The cutting instrument, passing through the bone with great force, pro- duces greater contusion than occurs in most fractures. If the wound have cut through, or sliced a piece from a bone, it is very diffi- cult to maintain the cut surfaces in contact, on account of their smoothness, and the complete division of the periosteum ; the least move- ment changes the relative situation of the fragments, and disturbs, or breaks up, the w’ork of re])aration, which nature has already begun. A wound of a bone necessarily com- municates externally, and, so far, is similar to every other fracture which has external com- munication by means of a wound of the soft parts, and which, as w'e shall see, is much more serious, than one in all respects similar, with the exception of the external communication. So7iie other complications of fracture.— There are still numerous complications of fracture which, though individually rare, are highly deserving of the attention of the surgeon. Indeed, the lesion which ranks a fracture as open, is nothing more than one particular and peculiarly impor- tant complication ; and a division of frac- tures, viewed in the light in which we are now regarding them, into simple and com- plicated, is much more logical than the one usually adopted. The rupture of a consider- able artery, or of a large vein, or the lace- ration of a principal nerve, is a serious com- plication of fracture. It may be occasioned by the same cause as the fracture, or by the sharp edge of a fragment of bone. These im- portant parts often escape most remarkably, by favour of the loose cellular tissue in which they lie, separated from the bone, and of their unconfined course nearly parallel to it. The ruptured blood-vessel may give rise to danger- ous or fatal haemorrhage, if it communicates with an external w'ound ; or otherwise to a dif- fused false aneurism, with all the dangers ac- companying that disease ; or to extensive effu- sion of venous blood under fasciae and among the muscles. There is great reason, in either of these two latter cases, to apprehend the super- vention of gangrene. The injury to the nerve may give rise to paralysis, or convulsive move- ments of the limb, to excessive pain, or the most acute inflammation. When the bone is broken into a great number of small fragments, called s|)lin- ters,—as happens when the fracture is^ caused by a spent catinon-ball, the wind of the ball, as w'as formerly supposed, or by any very heavy body, as the wheel of a loaded dray passing over the limb,—the com- j)lication, known by the natne of a commi- nuted fracture, exists, 'i'his complication is always accompanied with severe contusion of the soft parts, itself a serious comj)lication. The splinters in a comminuted fracture are sometimes comjiletely isolated, and may act as foreign bodies; sometimes they retain but slight connexion with the soft jrarts, which is not sufficient to maintain their life, and thusFRACTURE. 13 they become foreign bodies; mostly, ho\y- cver, their connexions are extensive and their life is maintained, and they are capable of contributing to the repair of the fracture. Comminuted fractures, when open, may always be expected to be attended with extensive suppurations. Luxation is another important accident which sometimes complicates fractures : it generally precedes the fracture ; but there are certain cases in which the fracture takes precedence, as in the luxation of the ulna backwards, which is preceded by fracture of the coronoid process; and in most luxations of ankle. The vertebrae are usually broken and luxated simultaneously. The complica- tion may be of a serious nature, when the dis- located fragment does not afford purchase for the application of the means of reduction ; and the frequent failure of the attempt at reduction, when the consolidation of the frac- ture is firm enough to admit of the application of force to the whole bone, is well-known. The last complication to which I shall di- rect attention is that in which, either because the bone has been extensively denuded of the periosteum, or because it has been severely contused, a portion of the shaft of a bone, independently of detached splinters, dies, and thus becomes a foreign body, for the removal of which nature is under the necessity of setting up a tedious and exhausting process of exfoliation. Enough may be gathered of the proportionate frequency of open fractures from the tables at page 7. Numerous constitutional circumstances are presented to our minds as serving to com- plicate the nature of a fracture. The health, the age, and sex of the sufferer require much consideration ; but as these affect the treat- ment almost exclusively, we shall defer the consideration of them. SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS. After the general account of the causes and varieties of fracture, that of the symptoms and diagnosis requires next to be considered. Of course, the fact of a recent blow, or a great muscular effort, or the known existence of any cause of absorption or wasting of bone, as cancer, is not to be omitted as a presump- tive sign of fracture. The actual s^vtploms by which we recognize the existence of a fracture are the rational or physiological, as pain, and a more or less com- plete inability to move the affected part; and the sensible or physical signs. The latter are the loss of the natural form of the part, unnatural mobility of the bone at the fracture, and crepitus. The rational signs of fracture, though often worthy of attention, are never to be relied upon. The jiain is often of use in directing us to the seat of the fracture when the jihysical signs are little marked ; yet, as it certainly arises from the injury of tlio soft parts, and does not necessarily accompany mere fracture, it is rather of the nature of a presumptive sign. Difficulty of vo- luntarily moving the part is an equally equivocal symptom, because it also is often the result of mere contusion. The physical signs possess a very different value. Where they are certainly present, they at once set- tle the question respecting the existence of a fracture. Cases, however, are not very un- common in which their appreciation is diffi- cult, or even impossible, without using such vio- lence, for the purpose of ascertaining their presence, as is not justifiable under existing cir- cumstances. “ Sometimes,” says Boyer’, “the fractured bone is situated so deeply, and sur- rounded by masses of muscle of such thick- ness, that the solution of continuity is felt with diffieulty, and crepitation cannot be made sensible. If, in such a case, the dis- placement be inconsiderable, as in certain fractures of the neck of the femur, the na- ture of the case may easily be mistaken. Fractures of the bones of the fore-arm and of the leg, when one of the two remains intact, being sometimes without displacement, are then difficult to recognize ; the sound bone, serving to support that which is broken, op- poses, to a certain extent, a displacement, and prevents a sensible depravation in the con- formation of the limb. Finally, when the surgeon is not called in sufficiently early, and inflammatory swelling about the fractured parts has already taken place, the existence of the fracture can often not be verified. In this case, where is the practitioner to w'hom it has not happened to hesitate, before decid- ing whether there w'ere a fracture ? Besides, even though he should succeed in recognizing the fracture immediately, he should, in this case, await the cessation of the accidents, before proceeding to an exact reduction. When, in spite of the most attentive exami- nation, the surgeon cannot satisfy himself re- specting a fracture, the existence of w'hich he strongly suspects, he should apply upon the limb a retentive apparatus, and employ the means proper to combat the inflammatory tension and tumefaction. After some days, he either discovers his error, and removes the apparatus, the application of which is attended with no inconvenience, or he becomes satis- fied of the reality of the fracture, and con- tinues the care it demands.” There are not a few instances in which it is both unnecessary and mischievous to inflict suffering in order to determine the existence of fracture; in these cases it should suffice, so far as suspicions of the injury exist, that the proper treatment of fracture be pursued with little or great iirecisioiqacconlingas the case may demand. We should remember, that every iiainful examination of an injury docs harm ; and that the importance of defined dia- gnosis is great only in proportion as indications arc rccpiisite, or indispensable 1o determine the jilan of treatment in a given ease. When it becomes necessary to distinguish between fracture and some other kind of injury, as a luxation, the pain of mani|)ulation ’ Hoycr, Mill. Cliir. toni. ill. p. ‘27.FRACTURE. 14 is hardly to be considered ; for negligence or delay may be far more injurious than the searching hands of a judicious surgeon. The distinction between the different kinds and complications of injury already adverted to, may be dwelt upon most advantageously when we come to speak of the fractures of individual bones ; but with regard to the diagnosis of fracture and luxations, one great and very general distinction between them deserves to be impressed on the memory,—namely, that while there is loss of voluntary motion in both cases, luxation stiffens the joint affected, but fracture, on the contrary, renders the parts more yielding to the hand of the examiner. It is of great consequence that the surgical student should so cultivate his sight and touch that he may be enabled to dispense with all unnecessary roughness in the examination of a fracture; and, with a view to this end, he should make cases of difficulty objects of spe- cial attention. He should even, I think, pro- duce, and study them in the dead body, so as to acquire a sharpness of eye and niceness of hand ; by wdiich means he w’ill be able to detect very slight degrees of deformity, un- natural mobility, or crepitus. Gentleness in the examination of a fracture is materially conducive to the success of the subsequent treatment, independently of the suffering spared to the patient. Lacerations, inflamma- tion, abscesses, or even worse mischief, may often be aggravated by a rude hand. As soon as the surgeon has discovered one unequivocal symptom of fracture, and gained the requisite knowledge of the nature of the displacement, he should desist from all further examination. The deformity produced by fracture is the consequence of some displacements, causing shortening, or angularity, or rotation of one of the fragments of the bone, and in many cases it is obvious to the hand, or even to the eye. Where this is not the case, the surgeon should be provided with a tape divided into inches and parts of an inch, which will render mani- fest degrees of shortening, which would cer- tainly escape the unassisted eye ; and he should take advantage of any prominent ridge or plane of bone approaching the surface, such as the spine and anterior surface of the tibia, to run his finger carefully along it, in search of any unnatural inequality of the body. The two sides should be placed accurately in the same position, for the purpose of comparing them ; thus, in a case of fracture of the fe- mur of difficult diagnosis, the two limbs should be fairly placed side by side, with the anterior superior sjiinous processes of the ilia on an exact level, before proceeding to measure comparatively the distances between promi- nent points on the two sides. ^ In all cases it is right to ascertain, by questioning the ])a- tient, that any deformity detected cannot be the result of any cause unconnected with the immediate accident. The second physical sign of fracture, viz. unnatural mobility of the bone at the point where it is broken, is often so obscure as not to be safely relied upon. When it can be distinctly ascertained, it is an unequivocal sign of fracture, and is sometimes, as in some fractures of the ribs, fibula, &c., the only physical sign, the existence of which can be satisfactorily determined. The remaining physical sign, crepitus, is both the most frequent and the most im- portant in diagnostic value. It is the sensible or audible grating of the surfaces of the fracture, when they are made to rub against one another. The etymology of the word might lead us to suppose that crepitus can be a])preciated by the ear only, but, in fact, it can be perfectly perceived by touch, and is frequently not heard when it is distinctly felt: and, except in fractures caused by mus- cular contraction, when the action, instead of approximating the fragments, separates them, so that they cannot be brought into the con- tact which is necessary for the production of crepitus, and except in incomplete fractures, this symptom is rarely absent. The difficulty of producing crepitus may be caused by some of the soft parts, as a portion of muscle, get- ting betw'een the fragments ; but oftener it arises in transverse or nearly transverse frac- tures, from the circumstance, that the dis- placement in the direction of the diameter being complete, the fragments are drawn along one another, the outer surface of one, covered by its periosteum, being in contact with that of the other, so that the pro- duction of crepitus is impossible, without first restoring the length of the limb. To discover crepitus, therefore, as in fractures of the neck of the femur, it is often necessary to direct an assistant to make extension, till he restores the natural length of the bone, and then to make some rotation, while the surgeon mani- pulates the fracture ; and insinuating his fin- gers and thumbs as near as possible to the bone, gives close attention to the sensation conveyed by the movements to his hand or ear. When readily practicable, the examina- tion to discover crepitus should be conducted solely by the surgeon ; by laying hold of the limb above and below the presumed place of the fracture, and with or w'ithout extension, according to circumstances, gently moving the fragments so as to bring the fractured surfaces into contact. There is a crepitus very different in its cause from that ])roduced by the friction of two surfaces of broken bone against one another ; but the surgeon, who is not well acquainted with the distinctive characters of the two, may readily mistake the one for the other. De- scription may give an idea of their differ- ence, but no one will distinguish them with certainty who has not often had experience of them. The crepitus which 1 may style delu- sive, is caused by the motion of tendons in their sheaths, and of muscles where they move on one another or neighbouring parts by favour of synovial bursae ; when, the lining membrane of the sheaths or bursae being afl'ceted with chronic inflammation, its sccrc- \ tion is so altered that the tendons or muscles15 FRACTURE. no longer glide smoothly, but fret as they move. This crepitus is not of unfrequent oc- currence in cases of supposed fracture. It has been compared to the sensation conveyed by pressing arrow-root in powder, or by the fretting of two surfaces of wax drawn lightly along one another. The crepitus of fracture, on the other hand, is grating, harsh, and dry. The synovial crepitus occurs most frequently in the fore-arm. In speaking of crepitus in relation to the diagnosis of fractures of the radius, Boyer ^ thus expresses himself: “ It is proper to observe, with relation to this last sign, that those persons who use their hands in laborious and fatiguing works, are subject to a singular affection of the cellular tissue which surrounds the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis muscles, in which these muscles, having be- come somewhat more prominent than usual, give rise, when they are compressed, to a par- ticular sound, which we might confound with crepitation, and which we cannot better com- pare than to that which starch produces when it is pressed between the fingers. This sensa- tion is so different from the true crepitation caused by the rubbing together of the frag- ments of a fractured bone, that it can never deceive an experienced surgeon, with whom, besides, a single symptom is not admitted to be conclusive.” The attention of the profession has of late years been directed to this peculiar crepitus in the fore-arm by several writers in France. M. Rognetta, Gazette Medicale for Sept. 1834.—M. Gaube, ibid. Feb. 1835.— M. Velpeau, ibid. June, 1835, and M. Main- gault, in a paper read in 1835, before the French Academy of Medicine. The tendinous subacute inflammation of the sheaths of the hand which give rise to a crepitus, is found to be of frequent occurrence in reapers at harvest time, in washerwomen, hatters, dyers, and various other persons whose trades oblige them to put the muscles of the forearm frequently and violently into action. A crepitus very similar to this can be produced in most persons by extending the leg upon the thigh, and then pressing the patella down- wards on the pulley-likc surface of the femur, with two or three fingers jilaced upon its upper edge. 1 have known this to be mis- taken for the osseous crepitus which is the consequence of ulcerative destruction of the cartilage of the patella, and of the part of the femur it plays upon. The false crepitus, though abrupt, is smooth ; it conveys the idea of the movement of polished surfaces on one another, and is so different from the rough, harsh sensation of true bony crepitus, that the experienced surgeon will hardly ever con- found the two. In certain comminuted frac- tures, and fractures where portions, as of the ex- tremity of abone, arc broken off obliquely, cre- ])itus will frequently be rendered manifest by pressing the parts together. In fracture of a ' Hdvcr, Op. cit. tom. iii, p. 2'22. condyle of the humerus or femur, crepitus, which eludes a common examination, may be often detected at once in this way. Where there is a probability of the existence of frac- ture with splinters, this mode of examination should, of course, be practised with great gentleness. M. Lisfranc recommends the application of the stethoscope, either at the presumed seat of fracture, or on some prominent point of bone more or less distant from it, for the purpose of detecting obscure crepitus. I cannot but regard this recom- mendation as frivolous. The real difficulty in such cases always is, to bring the fractured surfaces to rub on one another. If this can- not be done, the stethoscope w’ill give us no information; if it can, the crepitus will cer- tainly be perceived without the assistance of auscultation. It will require very little tact to distinguish the simple rolling of a tendon, or other solid, under the finger, and still less the peculiar crepitation of emphysema. PKOGNOSIS. The prognosis of fracture varies according to very numerous circumstances. It is seldom that the lesion of the bone, considered simply in itself, is attended with serious dangers, and the prognosis is chiefly to be formed upon the consideration of the complications of the fracture. In fractures of the bones that pro- tect the great cavities—the skull and spinal canal, the chest, and the pelvis, how secondary in importance are the considerations that attach to the mere injury of the bone! The real dangers, in these cases, arise from the injury inflicted on the contained viscera at the time of the accident, or from inflammatory actions in the progress of the case. Again, how great is the difference in the se- verity of the mischief in two cases of fracture of the fibula a little above the external malleolus, in which the injury to the bone is the same, but in one of which the violence causing the frac- ture is entirely spent in producing it, w'hile in the other there is subsequently a luxation of the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and of the connexions between the lower extremi- ties of the tibia and fibula, the internal malle- olus being forced through the integuments. The former is one of the simplest, the latter one of the most serious, cases. The dilfer- ence in point of severity between them, is to be referred to the extensive laceration of soft parts, to the wound in the integuments exposing the joint, and the dislocation in the latter case. It need scarcely be stated, that age and health exercise considerable influence on our prognosis. The formation of callus calls for considerable exertion of vital powers; and when these arc vigorous, as in early life, frac- tures become united much more easily and speedily than when they are weakened and impaired, as in advanced years. In like man- ner, in disease, when absorption and nutri- tion, and all the functions languish, the workFRACTURE. 16 of repair will be carried on more slowly, and with more difficulty, than in the opposite state. Certain diseases have been already stated to be, in a peculiar manner, unfavour- able to the production of callus, as rickets, cancer, and scurvy. Lord Anson has re- corded cases in which the influence of the last-named disease was sufficiently powerful to occasion the disuniting of fractures already consolidated. In forming our prognosis, w’e should alwaj’^s take into account the direction of the fracture. Generally, the transverse fracture is of easier cure than the oblique or longitudinal ; unless in the transverse the fragments lie side by side, and cannot be kept in apposition. In very oblique fractures, it is a matter of great diffi- culty to maintain the reduction, on account of the facility w'ith which the fragments glide on one another ; and of the muscles which act on the lower fragment, drawing it up ; and thus the operations of nature are ren- dered more difficult and tedious. Longitu- dinal fractures are nearly always the conse- quence of gunshot w'ounds ; and being there- fore open and complicated fractures, the pro- gnosis is of necessity greatly more unfavourable than in transverse fractures. If a longitudinal fracture, whether caused by gunshot or not, extend, as it often does, into the neighbouring joint; this complication influences the pro- gnosis very unfavourably,because of the pros- pect of acute inflammation and disorganization of the joint. In general, the smaller the bone, the more superficial its situation, and the less it is surrounded by large and powerful muscles, the less serious are the consequences of its fracture. We must except, however, the small bones of the hand and foot ; for these are seldom broken unless by direct violence, which crushes the bones and the soft parts severely, and the accident often terminates in more or less loss of motion. The fracture of a long bone about its middle is less serious than when it occurs towards either extremity. Fracture near a joint, occasionally induces synovitis, and more or less permanent stiffiiess of the joint may be calculated upon after the cure of the fracture. The fracture in the middle of long bones is probably not caused by direct violence, and is, therefore, most likely to be exempt from contusion. More- over, when the fracture takes place about the middle of a long bone, the length of tlie frag- ments affords important facilities for ensuring the coaptation of the fractured surfaces, by the purchase which the fragments offer to the splints, and other parts of the apparatus used to confine them. (Jii the other hand, when the fracture has happened near one extremity ot a long l)one, the shorter fragment gives so inse- cure a hold to the apparatus, tluit it is witli much difficult}’*the surgeon succeeds iii keep- ing it fixed in the situation in which he placed it at the time of the reduction. Wlicn the fracture occurs in the part of a limb having two bones, the gravity of the accident is much less, when one only, than when both of the bones are broken. In the former case not only is the lesion of the bone less extensive, but the unbroken bone, serving as a sj)lint, materially aids in keeping the fragments of the other fixed, and in just rela- tion with one another. It is obvious that the accident will be greatly aggravated by the occurrence of more than one fracture, whether the other fracture, or fractures, take place in the same bone, or in different parts of the same limb, or in different limbs. Boyer remarks, that when the femur and bones of the leg are fractured on the same side, it is almost iuipos-- sible to maintain nicely the reduction of the. fracture of the femur, and to procure the knit-- ting of the bone without shortening of the limb.. This is especially true, when the fracture off the bones of the leg is near the knee-joint;: and a similar difficulty arises with respect to the management of the fracture of the bones off the leg, when that of the femur is very near its lower extremity. All the other complications of fracture, of. which mention has been made above, aggra- vate the dangers of the accident, in proportion to their severity. If the contusion accom- panying the fracture is very great, and the ' bone has been broken into numerous splinters,. and the ragged points driven through the skin ; high fever, great constitutional disturb- • ance, and violent inflammation, with abscesses,, are almost inevitable ; or in three or four days gangrene may seize on the limb, and spread- ing to the body quickly occasion the death of the patient. The prognosis is affected most unfavourably by the occurrence of a wound communicating with the fracture, thus making it, what we have termed, an open fracture. This is a serious complication, when it accom- panies fractures which are the result of indi- rect violence,—in which the force producing the fracture not being expended in the rup- ture of the bone, the broken end is driven through the integuments, without suffering much injury itself, or inflicting more on the soft parts than is necessarily occasioned by the violence and laceration attending their simple perforation ; but when, in addition to the wound communicating with the exterior, the soft parts are extensively torn and crushed, and the bone stripped of its periosteum, the difficulty of the cure, and the dangers of the case, are greatly increased. Such injuries will be accompanied, in the first instance, with high inflammation, fever, tumefaction, and pain, and often, in the i)rogress of the case,_ give rise to abscesses, convulsive startings of the limb, displacing, again and again, the reduced fragment ; and even terminate in gangrene. The number and severity of the complications are an index of the danger of the case. When the bone is badly splin- tered, or extensively stripped of its peri- osteum, we may anticipate necrosis, and tedious exfoliations, and the exhausting dis- charge of matter accompanying them. Frac- tures attended with these severe complica-FRACTURE. 17 tioiis aro generally of happier prognosis in the upper extremities than in the lower, in which the surgeon will often fail in spite of the most assiduous attention, and the most skilful management, in effecting a cure with- out deformity and shortening of the limb. When the fracture is complicated with dislocation, the prognosis is often very un- favourable. In the ball and socket joints, when the dislocated fragment is short, on the one hand, the attempt to replace it before the consolidation of the fracture, is altogether useless ; and, on the other, is very unlikely to be successful, when the callus has acquired such a degree of firmness as to justify attempts at reduction. When, however, the dislocated fragment is so long as to afford any tolerable purchase to the force required to reduce the disloca- tion, we should make patient endeavours to succeed, before abandoning the attempt, being assured, that with the relaxation of muscles, and the skilful direction of a small force, we may sometimes reduce a disloca- tion, the reduction of w'hich is usually con- sidered to require the application of great force, and the assistance of machinery. In those cases in which we are able to reduce the dislocation before setting the fracture, as in j the hinge joints, the dislocation always ren- ders the prognosis unfavourable, because stiffness of the joint, to a greater or less ex- tent, will certainly remain long after the cure of the fracture, and perhaps permanently. THE PROCESS OF THE REPARATION OF FRACTURES. It is necessary, before entering upon the gene- ral account of the treatment of fractures, to investigate the steps of that process or chain of events by which divided bones become repaired. The knitting or reunion of frac- tures, from the first step to that of the most complete consolidation, is not less curious than important; it seems almost equally simple, regular, and w'onderful. It is after the consideration of the causes, differences, and symptoms of fractures, that we are almost naturally led to turn our attention to the pro- cess hy which nature repairs them, or by wliich she forms cnllm. Immediately that a fracture takes place, a quantity of blood, greater or less according to the degree of violence inflicted on the soft parts, is effused between the fragments, under the periosteum, and into the cellular tissue immediately surrounding the bone at the frac- ture ; and, in cases of severe injury, exten- sively into the tissue separating the muscles, or their fasciculi. Hunter supposed the effused blood to perform an important part in the repair of fracture ; b^ coagulating, becoming orpinized, and forming the basis of callus ; Ihe effusion of blood, however, is merely the mechanical consequence of the rupture of the bloodvessels, and is so far from being a neces- sary clement in the process of repair, that those cases recover most favourably and easily in which the effusion of blood is least, because in them the least violence has been done to the soft parts, and the fragments of the bone retain most nearly their natural relations with regard to one another ; and further, the first duty nature imposes upon herself is, to bring about the absorption of the effused blood ; which, after a time, wastes and assumes the ochre-colour of apoplexies, and then grow's pale and disappears. The secretion of fresh organizable lymph,—the result of the inflammation supervening upon the acci- dent, — forms the first step of a long pro- cess of repair, which, in a large bone of an adult human subject, extends over a period of from eight to twelve months, A tumour, largest at the seat of the fracture and gradually diminishing in size above and below this point, soon becomes defined. At first, it con- sists of the organized lymph, which being gradually removed by absorption, the nutritive vessels of the part deposit in its stead a sub- stance resembling fibro-cartilage, for which cartilage, by degrees, is substituted in the same manner. By-and-by, portions of the carti- lage being absorbed, jiarticles of bone secreted by the nutrient capillaries take its place, and in process of time the w'hole tumour becomes osseous, the ossification proceeding from with- in outwards. Finally, the new bone acquires greater density and strength than the original shaft, insomuch that, in the event of another fracture of the same bone, it will not be broken at the same point as before. The tumour at the fracture, thus different in its constitution at various periods of its age, is technically called the callus. The sketch just given of the changes that take place during the repair of fracture, is draw n from the numerous and accurate obser- vations and experiments of Diipuytren, How'- ship, Bransby Cooper, Breschet, and Villerme. A more detailed account will now be neces- sary. The French writers just named divide the process, as observed in the cure of a frac- ture of a large bone in the human subject, into five periods. I. The first period comprehends the eight or ten first days. On the occurrence of the fracture, blood is poured out between, within, and around the fragments. The cellular tis- sue, and the muscles near them, and the medullary tissue in their interior, acquire density by the absorption of the thinner parts of the effused blood, and by the eflusioii of lymph, lollowing the inflammatory injection of the minute vessels of these parts, and the fragments become confined in a tumour, which gradually acquiring consistence, and' becoming defined, forms the rudimentary callus. The substanco effused at the seat of the fracture docs not get the name of callus till it has acquired a certain definedness of form, and sufliciciit consistence to confine, to a considerable degree, the fragments imbedded in it. At first, the substance is irregularly diffused among the .soft jiarts around tlm frat--FRACTURE. 18 ture. The cellular tissue, says Dupuytren, reddened by the injection of a multitude of small vessels, becomes congested and thick- ened, loses its elasticity, and acquires a remark- able consistence ; sends irregular prolonga- tions into the interstices of the muscles, alters their organization, makes them participate, in whole or in part, in the changes it under- goes, transforms them into a tissue analogous to its own, and unites and confounds them with the periosteum, which has itself become thick- ened by being penetrated by a pretty con- siderable net-work of reddish and very deli- cate vessels. The medullary tissue, broken and ecchymosed, also becomes inflamed, swells, acquires firmness, and afterwards becomes grayish and whitish. The medullary canal is narrowed by the thickening of its membrane, which puts on a reddish aspect, and appears fleshy, in consequence of a sort of gelatinous infiltration. The primitive effusion of blood in this part disappears. A ropy and viscid matter, sometimes ofagelatinous appeai’ance,is poured out between the fragments ; sometimes also there is developed between them a substance, reddish, and, as it were, flocculent, which takes its rise by points of a light red, which grow and become confounded by mutual in- terlacement. This production, the nature of whieh is little known, never acquires any consi- derable thickness or consistence; it unites in- ternally with the medullary membrane, and ex- ternally with the soft parts which are con- gested, and loaded by effusion. It does not exist always ; and then we find only the viscid or gelatinous matter, of which we have spoken. Whether one of them only exist, or whether they exist simultaneously, both appear to play an important part in the production of callus, but of the definitive callus only. The frag- ments lie in the midst of the soft parts loaded with effused matter, transformed into a homo- genous tissue of a lardaceous consistence, and of a reddish colour, which varies in intensity. The tumefaction, in the site of the fracture, neither acquires sufficient consistence, nor sufficient regularity of form, during this first period, to deserve the name of callus. The annexed figure, and the three following, are taken from drawings illustrative of papers in the fourth and sixth numbers of Guy’s Hospital Reports, by Mr. Bransby Cooper, on the repair of simple fracture. The first exhibits the state of the fracture during the first period. 2. The second period extends from the eighth or tenth to the twentieth or twenty-fifth day. In this interval the tumefaction caused by'^the effusion and inflammation diminishes in the soft parts around the fracture, and the muscular fibres, previously obscured by the lymph effused amongst them, recover their distinctive characters ; and by degrees a tu- mour forms, over which the muscles and ten- dons begin to find space and freedom to play, and often groove the tumour where they pass over it. Sometimes a tendon plays in a canal formed in this mass. The callus is now homogeneous, whitish, and firm, equalling, fibro-cartilage in resistance, and grating like Fig. 8. Fig. 8 is taken from Pt. 1, fig. 2, plate 2, of Mr. Braiishy Cooper's paper. “ It exhibits the posterior: view of the femur of a rabbit, seventy-tiuo hours- after the fracture. The hollow of the lower portion of the bone is occupied ivith the remains of a large- coaguhim, intermixed with a deposit of lymph, which had already begun to be organized; red vessels were< shooting into it, in various directions. Lymph, partly: organized, was seen surrounding the bones in const-- derable quantities." it when cut with the knife. Striae of carti- lage, and even of osseous matter, begin to. make their appearance. The medullary mem-- brane, swollen and infiltrated, sometimes obli- terates the canal of the bone extensively, and; Fig. 9. Fig. 9 is taken from Part 1, plate 5, of Mr. Bransby Cooper's paper. “ It displays the dissection ofthe thigh- bone of a rabbit, which had been fractured 192 houn previous to the destruction of the animal. A section lias been made through the callus, so as to present an anterior view of the bone. By this section the uppet fractured portion of the bone has been completely ex- posed, and the periosteum juxrtly removed, so as tc.confounded at the frac- Fig. 11 is taken from Part 2, fig. 3, plate 2, of Mr. FRACTURE. 19 .how how the udveuliiions carlihuiinous depodl is placed on the outer side of that memhrane, between it and the aponeurosis of the muscles, which is delineated by a white line. It may also be obsei-ved that the pe- nosteum is sliqhtly separated from the shaft of the bone and between them a deposition of coagulable lymph has been poured out; not presenting, however, the same degree of vascularity as the deposition on the outer side of the periosteum, as indeed^ might be expected from the less degree of vitality of the inter- veninq structures. The fibrin inclosing the canceUi was firmly adherent to the medullary membrane; and small specks of earthy matter were seen deposited upon its interior surface. The section through the callus, it is to be observed, tu^ not in a similar manner exposed the surface of the interior fractured portion of the bone, in consequence of its having been drawn to a plane posterior to the upper portion ; but it showed the high degree of vas- cularity of the callus, where attached to the perios- teum ; and some small specks of earthy matter were seen deposited upon it. The upper and lower poriions of the bone in this preparation were much nearer ^rallel than in any former experiment, and in every respect exhibited a further progress towards osstfic union." thus takes the place before occupied by the medulla. It is even said that the plug thus formed in the cavity of the bone, soon passes into cartilage, and then into bone, becoming ture with the viscid, gelatinous, or floccu- lent substance, which is interposed between the fragments, and which loses itself in the exterior callus. During this period, the fragments still admit of some motion with re- spect to one another, but it is seldom that any crepitus can be produced. 3. The third period extends from the twen- tieth or twenty-fifth day to the thirtieth, fortieth, or sixtieth, ac- cording to the vigour Fig. 10 is taken from Part ‘2, fig. 1, plate 1, of Mr. Itransby Cooper's paper—A rabbit's femur broken twelve days. “ It exhibits in section the effusion of a great quantity of cartilaifc, particularly from the fractured extremities of the bone, which are brought more than usually in a direct line towards each other. Specks of earthy matter were seen deposited in the centre of the cartilage, more or less surrounded by numerous small blood-vessels. A point in the upper fractured half shewed the appearance of a small delaclwd portion of bone undergoing a change, about either to be absorbed, or if not entirely deprived of its vascularity, to become a nucleusfor further os.sific deposition. A softening down of the centre of the cartilage was also to be observed, as well as a fiighly vascular luilUm in the lower extremity of the bone, while the epiphysis was unaltered." Fig. 11. of the reparative pro- cess, which depends on the age, the con- stitution, and the health of the patient. The substitution of a material closely re- sembling cartilage, for the fibro-cartilage of the preceding period, now takes place from within outwards; and is soon followed by the deposition of os- seous matter. By de- grees, the whole callus becomes osseous, and presents the charac- ters of the spongy bone, and covered by a thick periosteum. The muscles and ten- dons acquire increased freedom, but are still clogged in their move- ments by the indu- ration of the tissues around them. If, at this time, we saw the Jdransby Cooper's paper. “ It represents the thigh- bone of a cat, broken six weeks, in which it may be observed that there is but little obliquity in the direction of the thigh-bone, although the two extremities overlap to a considerable eoctent. The vascularity of the con- necting medium was evidently derived from the me- dullary membrane of each poriion of bone, especially from the lower. The membrane, covering the new car- tilaginous deposit was very vascular, and softer than the periosteum of the femur, which still retained itsna- tural fibrous texture ; and this proves the non-identity of the two membranes. The extremity of each frac- tured portion is represented closed by cartilage and newly-deposited bone of considerable firmness; and the compact structure of the femur, in contact with the newly-deposited cartilage, clearly exhibits some inter- stitial absoiption, beautifully illustrating the active part it is nolo capable of maintaining in the repara- tion of the injury." callus through the middle, in the direction of the axis of the bone, we find the fragments still moveable on one another, the substance of a gelatinous or flocculent character already mentioned as separating them, having not yet sensibly changed its condition. 4. The fourth period is included between the fiftieth or sixtieth day and the fifth or sixth month. The callus passes from the state of spongy to that of compact tissue. The medullary canal is completely obliterated by the upper and lower plug, now converted into tolerably compact bone ; and the substance directly between the fragments loses its former characters, acquires consistence, be- comes pale ; and, towards the end of this period, its place is occupied by bone, which forms the definitive or permanent callus. Fig. 10.From the first appearance of reparative, permanent callus is completed, and the pro-- recovers its natural texture and thickness at bone, it is apparent that this highly organizedi 2i) Figs. 13. FRACTURE. newed ; and, finally, the consolidation of the Fig. 12. the fifth or sixth month to the end of the this mass passes to visional or tempo- definitive or perma- been perfected, this exists; and that when the definitive callus callus has been com- two different kinds of nently restored, and the fragments directly Fi^. 12 is taken from Part 2, fig. 1, plate 3, of Mr. ture, very much as the young bone does,— It is here neces- sary to advert to the assertion of Dupuy- tren, that there are callus, one called pro- rary, and the other, nent ;—that in the early periods of the process of repair pro- visional callus 011I3" the consolidation has pletely absorbed,and alone remains. At first, it is said, a mass of callus occupies the interval between the medullary cavities of the fragments ; and a prolongation from B. Cooper's paper. “ It eachHiitsa perfect hony corny- lidation, althouyh still prior to the restoration of its medullary cavity. The neidy-deposited osseous me- dium may be observed to be externally of a compact structure; while internally it still retains a spongy and highly-vascular appearance. No vestige of tem- porary caHiluge remains; and in the dissection of this preparation all the structures surrounding the bone were found restored to their natural appear- ance ; atid even the muscles were attached by a na- tural kind of tendinous insertion into Ihc new boneP a greater or less distance into the interior of each fragment. Another mass, which forms the tumour of the callus, discover- able by the hand, encloses the fragments as if with a clasp. These two masses consti- tute the provisional callus ; of which the only use, according to Dupuytren, is to support and confine the fragments, while nature is accomplishing the deposition of the definitive callus. The secretion of the defini- tive callus commences in the fourth period, of w'hich we are speaking ; and as it slowly proceeds, the provisional callus is gradually absorbed. That which occupies the medullary cavity becomes, successively, porous, reti- cular, and ultimately comi)letely absorbed, so that the medullarj" canal is restored ; and eventually the permanent callus alone re- mains, occupying the situation previously held by the gelatinous and flocculont substance ; which, in the earlier stages of the reparative process, lay directly between the fragments. The provisional callus, tlierelorc,is that which forms the superficial and central part of the tumour of the callus, and is destined to be absorbed at the latter iiart of the fourth and in the fifth period. The definitive callus is that by which the medullary canal is perma- united ; or which, in fractures where the frag- ments lie side by side, forms the bar by which they are permanently connected. 5. The fifth and last period extends from year. During this time the deposition of the visional callus is removed ; the periosteum the fracture ; the muscles and tendons regain their freedom of motion ; the medullary canal is gradually restored, and its membrane and,, consequently, the secretion of marrow, re- fracture is complete. formation continues to be changed in its struc- growth going on without, and excavation 1 within, &c. until the final changes are com-- pleted. From an analysis made by Dr. Davj% one hundred and twenty-eight days after the inju-- ry, the comjiarative composition of the shaft: Figs. 13 are taken from sections of two femora in the Museum of the College of Surgenjis in Dublin. Both bones had been broken long before death, and e.vhibit a condition of the callus which must have e,vistcd for a long time, yet u'hich does not^ correspond coeactly with the account usually given of the pc.rmancnt callus. In neither is the medullary canal completely restored, and in both these are eon- ^ siderablc remains of what, according to Dupuytren's definition, must be regarded as provisional callus.FHACTURE. 1 O] The manner in which the compact tissue of the tipper frapment is split, as it were, into layers, that become continuous, more or less distinctly, across the callus, with the compact tissue of the lower frayment, is remarkable, and is common in preparations of this kind. a, 'a, are condyles of the femora ; at b, c, and 'b, the splitting of the compact tissue of the upper fragment alluded to takes place, and the layers into which they split can be traced to the compact tissue of the lower fragment; from d to e, and from 'b to 'c, the medul- lary canal is obliterated. of the bone and callus appears to be as fol- lows, viz. Shaf Callus. Animal matter . . . 38’60 38‘8 Phosphate lime, &c. 61'40 61'2 100-00 100-0 The specimen examined was a “ fracture of the humerus, re-united by a clasp of new bone around the outer surface of the fragments (where nicely opposed) and a portion in the medullary canal. The extremities of the frag- ments are not yet consolidated. The exter- nal callus may in some places be easily sepa- rated from the old bone.” See pi. ix. fig. 4, of the third fasciculus of anatomical drawings from the Museum at Chatham. The following analysis by M. Henry Gau- thier de Claubry proves, that the ultimate density, approaching that of ivory, of the cal- lus, is owing to supersaturation with calca- reous matter. Original bone. Callus. Animal matter .... 56-284 . . 43-795 Carbonate of lime . . 3'846 . . 9-785 Phosphate of lime . . 38-075 . . 44-894 Phosphate of magnesia P012 . . P526 From the foregoing analyses, and from some other circumstances, it would appear that the new bone is at one period very similar to, if not the same as, the original solid ; but that, finally, the new structure becomes less anirnal- ized, or even less vital. The preceding minute detail of the entire process of repair in fracture, is derived from the laborious investigations of the above-men- tioned authorities, but especially from the paper on the formation of callus, in the fourth volume of the “ Lefons Orales,” of Dupuytren. d'he attempt to explain the formation of callus has given birth to numerous theories; which, however, in my opinion, possess neither in- terest nor value, except in connexion with the history of physiological science. I regret to be obliged to expend time in recording or criticising theories which 1 think quite irre- concileable with our present knowledge in physiology. We are as yet without the facts necessary to the establishment of a theory of the formation of callus, on a truly philoso- phical—on a Baconian basis. This theory, I conceive, must ho a part of the groat theory of nutrition. When w-e shall know the dif- ferences in structure, distribution, nervous supply, and vital forces, depending upon some electric, galvanic, magnetic, electro-inagnctic, or other inrluence at present absolutely un- known, which confer upon the nutritive arte- ries of various parts of the animal body, the power of selecting from the circulating mass, and depositing with such surprising steadiness and beautiful precision, for a long series of years, in one place, nervous matter ; in an- other, muscular fibre ; in a third, bone : when ■we shall know these differences, we shall be in a condition to theorize rationally respecting the formation of callus. Do I hazard much in asserting, that many a minute and laborious experimental inquiry lies between us and the possession of such knowledge ? The power that nature possesses in the production of bone, and the reproduction of it when lost or deprived of life, is astonishing ;—far greater than those she exhibits in the reproduction of many other tissues. In the stag tribe, vast quantities of bone are lost and replaced annually. In the beautiful skeleton of fossil Irish elk, in the museum of the Dublin Col- lege of Surgeons, the huge horns of that noble animal weigh certainly much more than half the bones of the whole body. These horns w-ere shed and reproduced annually. Any of this tribe of animals in which the repro- duction of bone is so frequent and so rapid, would supply admirable subjects for the inves- tigation of the physiology of bone. And 1 think that noble owners of herds would do well in lending their aid as freely to any one devoting himself to this subject, as did Charles the First in giving his deer to Harvey, when he was engaered upon his beautiful “ Exerci- tationes de Generatione Animalium.” In necrosis, what efforts does nature dis- play for the reproduction of bone ! How fre- quently do we witness the accidental deposi- tions of bone in exostoses and nodes ; in the ossification of cartilages, as those of the larynx in old age ; in that of fibrous membranes, as the dura mater ; and in that of tendons ! These considerations might almost induce us rather to wonder that nature is ever reduced to the ne- cessity of uniting the fragments of a broken bone by ligamentary bands, than that she per- forms her ordinary cures by bony union in a manner so admirable and so perfect. The earliest speculations on the formation of callus attributed it to the effusion of a gelatinous or osseous juice between and around the fragments of tlie fractured bone. By a gradual inspissation, this juice passed, as was supposed, from its original fluid to a solid con- dition, uniting the fragments much in the same maimer that two pieces of wood arc united by the carpenter with glue. Considering the condition of physiological science at the time when this theory was in favour, it was much less indefensible than it now a])pears. The entire want of sensibility of bone in its healthy state, and its mineral aspect, led the early phy- siologists to believe it to be not possessed of vitality. Its fractures, therefore, might bo repaired by an inorganic osseous juice solder- ing the fragments together. They observed, too, in a great number of animals, a secretion t aking place, which hardened into a substance, C22 FRACTURE. not a little, in its external characters, resem- bling bone. Of this nature are the calcareous stems of the coral polypes, the shells of the testaceous mollusca, and the armour of the Crustacea, with many species of which they were familiar, and in which the original for- mation, and the growth of these substances, take place precisely in the manner in which they supposed the callus to be effused and in- spissated into bone. In the tubipora musica, the manner in which the calcareous tubes in- habited by the polypes, and the stages by which these tubes are at intervals supported, are formed, seems to make a surprisingly close approximation, in one of the lowest animals, to ossification in the highest. But between all these substances and bone there is this essential difference, that they are ex- tra-vascular and dead ; growing only by layers added to the surface which is in con- tact with the living substance of the ani- mal ; while bone, as is now on all hands admitted, is endowed M'ith vital properties, is nourished, and grows by means of ves- sels permeating it in every part. If, there- fore, an inorganic material were effused be- tween the fragments, it would immediately ex- cite inflammation of the soft parts, and even of the bone ; and the first duty that nature would impose upon herself, would be to throw it out of the body as a foreign substance. The theory of Duhamel, which was pro- posed in the early part of last century, long kept possession of the schools. According to it, the ruptured periosteum of each frag- ment swells, extends towards, and at length unites with, the periosteum of the other. It now' thickens, extends itself between the fragments, becomes fibro-cartilaginous, carti- laginous, and finally osseous, forming an os- seous clasp externally, and an osseous mass immediately between the fragments, by which they become firmly and permanently united. Duhamel also admits that, in some cases, similar changes take place in the torn medul- lary membrane. Thus it would appear to be by the gradual ossification of the periosteum, and sometimes of the medullary membrane also, that fractures are repaired ; and it is re- presented that by these membranes only, bone can be formed. According to the theory of Bordenave, the process, by which callus is formed, re- sembles strictly that by which the union of a solutio)! of continuity in the soft parts is brought about. This, indeed, is not a theory of the formation of callus, but an assertion that the theory, whatever that may be, which will explain the union of soft parts, is similai to, or identical with that by wliich the repair of a fractured bone is to be accounted foi. This is sufficiently vague, yet is it, in my o|)i- nion, less liable to serious objection, and moie nearly in accordance with our present physio- logical knowledge, and acf|uaintance with the facts of the reparative process in fracture, than any of the theories which preceded or have fol- lowed it ; inasmuch as it neither admits of the existence, in the living body, of an inorganic material undergoing a series of purely physical changes, by which repair is effected, nor attri- butes the production of callus to the agency of any particular tissue—as the medullary membrane, the bone itself, the periosteum, or the surrounding soft parts. With the exception of Bordenave, and those who have more or less closely adopted his views, Duhamel and all succeeding theo- rists respecting callus, have fallen into this latter error; and modern surgeons are con- stantly using language that implies the adop- tion of it. I will not answer for it (so deeply is the language of physiology on this subject imbued with it) that my own is free from the same charge. We con- tinually hear of the conversion into hone, the transformation into bone, the ossification of the medullary membrane, the periosteum, the cellular tissue, and sometimes, even of the muscles. Such language is, in the pre- sent day, perfectly barbarous, and incon- sistent with our actual knowledge in physio- logy. To speak of the transformation of the periosteum, or any other part, into bone, is as irreconcileable with the received opinions respecting the growth and nutrition of the animal tissues, as the ancient absurdity of the effusion of an osseous juice to be inspissated into bone. Wherever, and on whatever occa- sion, bone is formed, w'hether in its original production, in the growth and nutrition of that w'hich already exists, or in its accidental formation in callus or in morbid deposits, there, I conceive, the absorbents of that part first remove the previously existing particles ; and the nutritious vessels possessing, or having acquired, the organization and vital properties (whatever those may be) that bestow on them the power of selecting from the blood and secreting the materials of bone, substitute, for the particles that have been removed, osseous particles, by the aggregation of which, bone is first pro- duced, or rcnew’ed, or morbidly deposited. Haller and Dethleef, observing the effusion of lymph between the fVagments of the fractured bone, and that the extremities of these became softer and swollen ; and thinking it natural to suppose that the different tissues have some ■ peculiar power of reproducing their like, at- tributed the production of callus to the agency of the vessels of the broken bone itself. After what has been said above, I think it unneces-- sary to do more than state merely the opinion i of the great physiologist, and that of Dethleef 1 on this subject. In the present day, those who have devo-- ted themselves to the investigation of the ])rocess of the repair of fractures, and from whom I have taken the minute account of it given already, have happily^ rather ap- plied themselves to the ascertaining of facts, than the construction of theories. 1 say, hap- pily, because, in the first place, we are still ^ ignorant of the facts necessary for the founda- tion of a rational theory ; and, secondly, be-FRACTURE. cause the speculations on this subject have hitherto been eminently unfruitful in results possessing any practical value. In this point of view, the single fact asserted by Dupu^’’- tren, that what he calls the definitive callus is not formed till towards the end of the fourth period, or about the fifth month, is worth the whole of them, if it follows, that up to that time we may, by force skilfully applied, restore the natural relations of the fragments, in a fracture in which consolida- tion, with deformity, is very far advanced. What, then, shall we say is the present state of our knowledge on this interesting and important subject ? Even to enable us to conduct further inquiries into it, it is neces- sary that we should have precise ideas on this point. Can we doubt that further investiga- tion of it will bring to light facts of the highest practical value ? At the bottom of the won- derful process by which callus is produced, and a fracture repaired, there is clear evidence of the agency of a superintending Intelli- gence. Paley has produced no more cogent proof of the existence of a designing Mind, in the adaptation of the mechanism of the most finished organ to its function, than is to be found in the repair of a fracture, of the exist- ence of intelligence, design, and benevolence, to put the spring, that first moves in the pro- cess, into motion. The first stage in the formation of callus that falls under the cognizance of our senses, is the removal, by absorption, of the serum and red particles of the blood poured out from the ruptured vessels. Its lymph re- mains, and has soon added to it lymph effused by all the vessels around the fracture. In this lymph there are quickly generated nu- tritious secerning and absorbent vessels, to the actions of which, all the changes of the callus arc to be attributed. During all this time a slow and continual change in the organi- zation and vital properties of the nutrient vessels must of necessity take place, enabling them, first, to substitute a fibro-cartilaginous substance for the lymph removed by the ab- sorbents ; and then, in like manner, cartilage in the stead of the fibro-cartilagc ; and, lastly, bone instead of the cartilage. At this stage of the process, the secerning vessels of the callus must be endowed with properties iden- tical with those of the original bone, and these they permanently retain. Thus from the beginning to the end of the process, the condition of the callus, and therefore of the vessels which secrete it, is in a constant flux. I cannot admit the doctrine of Dupuytren respecting the existence of two kinds of !f' which Dupuytren chiefly relics in founding the distinction be- 1 holievo, upon the difhculty which nature experiences in briim- ing the nutrient arteries of the old bone, and of the callus, to deposit new particles so close to one another as to be within the sphere of cohesive attraction—a difficully she no less experiences in bringing about bony anky- losis in joints stripped of their cartilages. This difficulty mastered, the old bone and the callus are perfectly continuous ; and much of the latter may now be removed by the mo- delling powers of the absorbents, without pre- judice to the strength of the bone. The su- perfluous callus, which thus admits of being removed, is the provisional ; and that which is of necessity retained, is the definitive callus of Dupuytren. I do not believe them to differ in any other respect. APPENDIX, ON THE REUNION OF BONE U The foregoing history of the reunion of frac- ture, as it is commonly taught, is doubtless, in the main correct; it demands, however, con- siderable modifications, and even additions ; and it may not, therefore, appear unreason- able to introduce, in the form of an appendix, a series of facts which are naturally supple- mentary to the preceding, although a rigo- rously systematic account should, I think, in- corporate the two views in one. I can claim but little on the score of origi- nality beyond the pretension of having placed the facts about to be detailed in just relation to each other ; but I hope that these opinions will form an useful and even necessary addition to the matter in hand ; and that they will render the reunion of fracture, in a theoretical and practical point of view, more simple, uniform, and complete, than it has hitherto been made to appear. There is one palpable, universal, and forci- ble objection to the accounts of reunion, and of callus, as detailed by all experimenters on ani- mals ; namely, that the soft bond of union in man is not found to bear any proportion to that in animals ; and even the new bone is comparatively scanty after the fracture of human bones. To reason, therefore, from experiment directly to practice is in itself fallacious ; and the casual observations to be derived from the appearances of bony repa- ration in man will alike corroborate this as- sertion, and clear uj) our views both of the theory and treatment of the subject in hand. it will be my object to show, that the repa- ration of bone, however modified, is one pro- cess, ever the same in kind ; whether after mere contusion, amputation, simple fracture, or open fracture, or in connexion with necro- sis. All enquirers must perceive that the history of callus,contracting in amass, around the severed ends of a bone, is inconsistent with what is known of many cases, besides those of open or compound fracture. For cxaiiqile, the fkeorcliccd callus is not seen where coa])tation is altogether prevented, or where a broken end, being very much dis- placed, is o|)posed to an unbroken surface of bone (sec fig. 1), where the cranium is fis- sured, or cancellated bone divided, or where ' The I'hlitor hopcB that this additional exposition of the repair of IVaetiires, hy Mr. T. Wilkinson King, will not need an apidogy.24 FRACTURE. fracture runs through a surface which is coated with cartilage, and therefore devoid of true periosteum. We may well admit that the experiments, and observations, which have been adduced to illustrate the subject of callus, are extensive and satisfactory ; but we shall find that there are still important details concerning the repair of open fractures and others, which when compared with those introduced into the previous pages, may serve both to esta- blish and to extend the opinions which are generally esteemed the best. The first enquiry should perhaps be, to determine the conditions of the periosteum after fracture ; but of these I must speak more at length hereafter. One or two re- marks, however, require to be advanced in immediate connexion with my present object. In the first place, it must be apparent that the more the periosteum is separated from the bone by violence or inflammation, the more the broken extremities are deprived of blood- vessels, and become liable to necrosis, or, at least, to the tardiest process of repair. Secondly, it is not much to assume, that the inflammation of periosteum is understood to be attended with tumefaction of the mem- brane, and that this applies to all the soft parts immediately surrounding a fracture. We see then how position, motion or rest, and constitution, as well as the kind and degree of the original injury, must combine to regulate the degree of surrounding tume- faction—to moderate or augment it, provided inflammation be not wholly deficient, or ac- tually excited to disorganization. This re- flexion is of great importance with refer- ence to the observations made on the broken bones of animals. One who has watched a rabbit with a broken leg, and seen the invo- luntary start of the limb, occurring every few minutes, perhaps for many days, must know very well that the local deposits of inflammation cannot fail to be thus increased out of all proportion. The following example may serve to prove this fact:—A large bull- dog in a fight, had the fore-arrn nearly bitten through, and the bones only grazed. He continued to lie, every now and then jerk- ing the paw, though the part M'as little swollen, for eight days, after which he was destroyed as a healthy animal, for the pur- pose of injecting some of his viscera. The injured arm was also injected with coloured size. The internal mischief seemed pro- ])ortionate to what I have described. There was no appearance of a disorganizing pro- cess ; a scale of bone had been chipped off, the wounded periosteum w'as red, tumid, and spongy ; and the bones were, in great part, covered by an additional layer of new bone, with thick and soft periosteum upon it.^ This may also stand for a broad illustration of what, in my view, is most necessary to every reunion—plenty of ossification, and l)ut little soft callus, excepting the active periosteum. With regard to the effused blood in the great cell of a fracture, nothing is more cer- tain than that it gradually disappears ; grows brown and pale, and wastes away (if not dis- charged externally) as simple extravasation from a bruise. The idea of the organization of a clot is as devoid of proof in fracture, as in simple ecchymosis ; and I am unwilling to admit the opinion that any visible mass can be first formed, and then for the first time receive vessels. Next, there is sufficient evidence that sup- puration about the fracture does not of neces- sity materially interrupt the consolidation ; so that the effusions of blood and of simple in- flammatory deposits about the fracture are not essentials of the repair,—and we know that every surgeon regards excessive extravasa- tion, or effusion, as an impediment. After a fracture, it is naturally to be ex- pected that the periosteum should be variously confounded with other lacerated tissues in the progress of inflammation. It is still more likely, after the stage of tumefaction, when all the swollen tissues become more solid, and contract (as in every part they must, as a necessary consequence of the subsidence of their former condition), that it will be very difficult to distinguish true periosteum : al- though it will hourly become more evident, that, of the whole contracting mass which assists to bind up the fractured parts, the inner vascular surface has the most to do with the deposition of bone. The minuter changes which the periosteum undergoes after material lesion, need not now be referred to. It is sufficient to observe that injury induces some inflammation, which may terminate in resolution, in the effusions of different fluids between it and the bone, or— what most commonly, and indeed almost con- stantly happens—within four or jive days, it be- comes the means of depositing new bone upon the old. Hence we have bony nodes, and venereal exostoses. This is roughly illustrated by simple exostosis ; when, perhaps in conse- quence of a blow, a cartilaginous spot forms between the periosteum and the bone,—or rather, as I think, in the periosteum,—and then point by point, bone upon bone, ossifi- cation advances beneath the cartilage ; fresh cartilage is superposed, and a tumour is deve- loped. The case is not very different, though often much more complicated, in cancerous exostosis. Supposing a fungoid tubercle to be forming beneath the periosteum, this mem- brane inflames, because of the j)ressure ; so that all around a ridge of bone is deposited, while perhaps the |)ressure of the tubercle causes absorption of the bone immediately beneath it. In this manner, many cups may be formed, single or confluent,small orlarge, regular or ir- regular ; and it is very evident that the forma- tion in this way of broad plates, and septa, and cells about the bases of similar tumours, is one part of the process of many fungous exostoses. Some bones, affected wilii a similar disease, have a beautiful appearance after maceration.0f) FRACTURE. I refer to the formation of innumerable bony blades, or needles, radiating from a common base, which is attached to the original bone ; and I believe it will require but little obser- vation to see that the needles are all formed \ ery much as in the preceding instances—in the angular interstices of cylindrical, or rather conical radiating fungi, by successive deposi- tions, bone, from periosteum, on their diverging and growing points. I could bring forward sections of these formations, which clearly establish this account. It is of some moment to remark, that other sections of such tumours must be confusion indeed to an unprepared observer ; for he would say, as the experimenters on fracture have been all far too ready to do, that the isolated spiculae are found every where. This is altogether un- true, or it requires altogether a new and care- ful set of proofs for fracture as well as for fungus. I know very well that a fungoid tubercle in the lung, or in a lymphatic gland, may be earthy ; but this is, I presume, beyond our proper enquir3% as will appear from the fol- lowing instance. In the museum of Guy’s hos- pital isasolidossific fungus grow ingin and from bone, and causing absorption of the original bone on all sides, and raising the periosteum ; beneath which, immediately beyond the limits of excessive pressure and absorption, inflam- mation had caused the deposit of simple bone on the original bone. Here we had honeuj)on bone, but also something very different in the specific earthy formation in the bone, which was similarly in progress in detached tuber- cles in the soft tissues of the limb, the lungs, and Ij^mphatic glands, of the same individual. Thus, in the body, as an inorganic earthy plate grows by accretion, and true bone also ; so is it with a fungus, whether it be medullary or osseous, in a bone or in a lung. It is worth while to compare a little further the^ effects of a fungoid tubercle under the periosteum with the changes produced by tu- bercles growing within bones. The latter pro- duce absorption of a bone wherever they press upon it, even though they themselves contain much new bone (as I have observed is the case when ossific fungus prevails in other parts of the body) ; while, on the other hand, the external tubercle may press and cause absorption on one part of the bone, but, all around this, true ossification may go on, even to excess, unless in rare instances, where we find periostitis with little or no ossification; and then we may suppose the bony diathesis to be wanting instead of excessive, as it some- times is. It will be found both curious and instruc- tive to carry these illustrations a step or two further. A fungoid tumour formed in the head of the tibia finally becomes three or tour times as largo as that part, and the bone still appears large enough to enclose it at every point ; but in truth nothing remains of the original head of the bone. As the new growth has pressed on successive portions, they have been absorbed until nofhino- re- mains of the natural bone ; and it is curious to observe, that while the exjianding tumour has kept up absorption within, the same cause has kept up periostitis and deposition of bone without; and the new shell still expand- ing, and mostly diminishing in thickness, takes the impress of the subjacent tumour, which, by its excessive growth, finally breaks through or destroys both bone and periosteum. In some cases, absorption preponderates; in others, ossification. One part of this process is strikingly illustrated by a rare specimen in the museum of Guy’s hospital. The instance alluded to is a patella, which has been excavated, and distended, much in the manner and degree just described rela- tive to the head of the tibia, and nearly equally' in all directions, but the formation of new shell has been most free on the anterior surface, where a very striking result is obser- vable. This part is no longer covered, as is natural, by the tendon of the extensors, but numerous strong cords of this tendon indivi- dually pierce the anterior shell above, run along its inner or posterior face, within the cavity of the bone, and again escape below, to form the ligamentum patellae. In short, it is manifest that the tumour had absorbed all the bone behind the tendon, and then had pressed through interstices of its fibres, so as to form protrusions, in front of which the inflamed periosteum, covering these, pro- trusions, continued to form bone. This is, doubtless, somewhat intricate, but it is only one step beyond the cases before related. Let the reader remember, that bone is gene- rally necessary to the deposition of bene; next, that the pressure, exerted between the growing tumour and the unyielding tendi- nous lines, must cause absorption of all the parts included between the two structures ; while, in the interstices of the tendon, ossi- fication may proceed on the surface, and absorption of bone within, until the bony bands project in front of the tendinous lines, and being still inflamed by pressure, at last ossify so extensively-, as to reunite into one layer. Lienee the phenomenon of a patella, presenting a conqiletc bony encasement an- teriorly, and having the tendinous fibres of the extensor tendon situated on its posterior surface. We thus find pressure and inllam- malion, absorption and de|)osition, going on together, or giving place to one another, ac- cording to the moment when, or the spot to M'hich our observation is directed. Again, the reader is rc(]uested to remember, in observing for himself, that various instances are to be expected in which ossilic deposits prevail, or in which they arc almost totally deficient. In order to establish the foundation, at least, of these views, let us consider the elfcet of an aneurism pressing on a bone. Is it not well understood that the jiart compressed beyond endurance loses periosteum, and some bone by absorption, while, all around, a more moderate pressure has only excited in-FRACTURE. 26 flammation, and the deposition of new bone, in the form of spieular exostosis, or a more or less complete zone? The same effeet is more distinctly observed where a new cup is formed in consequence of luxation : we have a cen- tral absorption and surrounding exostosis; and even the head of the dislocated bone suffers absorption from excessive pressure at one central part, while at other parts irritation and consequent hypernutrition prevail. It is needless, but for the advantage of a contrast, to remark, that the slow atrophy of a disused part, as a deserted acetabulum, is not to be compared with,the active process of absorp- tion, which excessive pressure produces by excluding nutrition. 1 do not deem it needful to enquire very precisely into the source of new bone. The material is from the blood of the capillaries, which are in great part supplied from the periosteum, more especially in the adult. Pe- riosteum is nothing specific in essence, since granulation, or any thing else that can adhere to bone, may become in all points of function periosteum. I consider its especial office to be that of furnishing to the bone its neces- sary supply of nutrition, as that of the pia mater to the brain : it is the princijial means of vascular support to the bone, and is placed on the surface where we should expect to find it, because there most needed ; not interfe- ring with the solidity of the shell, and close at hand to afford nourishment. The tensions which operate mechanically upon a cylindrical bone are most severe at its surface, and in consequence its nutrition and density are here the greatest. I conceive it to be a simple demonstration, on the same principle, that the very growth and form of every bone and process are regulated by the forces to be con- tinually resisted by each particular part. In case of reparation after injury, inflammation is the efficient cause of the deposit, while the presence of organized bone determines the earthy character of the new growth ; and this is not a singular consequence. Do we not see capillary formed from capillary, skin from skin, nerve from nerve, cellular membrane from cellular membrane, tendon from tendon, by the aid of stretching; and when I add, bone upon bone, or even the matter of a finger- nail upon its like, may we not conclude, that we see in all these cases but slight modifica- tions of one law or principle of action ? Beyond the examination of these simple facts, we discover laws relating to primary for- mations, and successive stages of evolution. We may pass over all the reparative actions in bone which do not demand the formation of new bone; such as the fluid node, super- ficial injuries, and even lamellar exfoliation ; although, when we take up the restoration of open fractures, we may require to touch upon these topics. Let us first consider a simple case of bony reparation. After the division of a long bone, by amjni- tation, the injured periosteum becomes in- flamed ; and, within a week, traces of a tubu- lar ring of new bone will generally be found adhering to the shaft near its cut extremity, and sometimes even over its whole length ; but it is longer before the cut end of the bone becomes coated or co- vered in. A slow forma- tion of new periosteum takes place over the sawn surface, and the organization of the bone becomes repaired ; the useless and little nou- rished points are next absorbed; and then a gradual extension of os- sification, following the new periosteum, from the circumference to the centre, seals up the me- dullary cavity. Fig. 14 represents the hone of a hoy's stump, who sur- vived amputation about six weeks. Excessive inflam- mation of periosteum has led to rapid and undtte formation of a new soft shell, earternal to the original shaft. The end of the bone is sealed up, but the material was too spongy and fragile. This lad was twelve years of age; his disease had been a strumous knee. The stump was nearly healed, hut the integu- ments had recently retracted themselves, when re- peated convulsions for three iveeks, and finally coma, carried him off. The end of the bone was coated with cartilage.—Guy's Museum. In proportion as the ossification is rapid, it is also abundant, and soft or spongy, and viceversa. The final healthy ap- pearance of the bone, in section, after amijuta- tion, is that of a thin strong dome, which form I conceive to be determined by the cir- cumstances of pressure M'hich affect the part. It is most wasted and conical when least used ; it is most flat and ex- panded when its freest nutrition is excited by use. To explain my mean- ing as to the formation of the dome, let us sup- pose a circular hole in the summit of the dome, and the whole covered by healthy membrane; is it not evi- l'’ig. 15 is a view of the e.rtreme efieets of periostdis after amputation above the elbow; a new shell, andFRACTURE. m loose sequestrated portion of the shaft. It is evident that the new hone becomes attached to the old by ossi- fication at least above, tvhere also it is probable that new bone teas first formed; and it would also appear, from the formoftkenew shell, that it had never adhered, to or lain near the dead shaft, tuhich in the original is however someu'hat worm-eaien. It is certain that the new shell teas lined by a gramdating periosteum: it constituted an abscess, containing a foreign body ; and its nwre natural cloaca below was much narrowed, by ossification.—Guy's Museum. dent that undue pressure on the edges of the opening would cause periostitis and increase of bone inclining to close up the opening, and to extend the surface as well as to complete the dome? for the exciting pressure would be per- pendicular to the cut end of the shaft. I think it is apparent also, that the growth depends mainly on the periosteum ; for the cut surface of the shaft seems very little active, and its lining membrane almost inert. When additional changes take place they are distinctly attributable to the external mem- brane. It usually happens, ultimately, that the new tube of bone disappears from around the shaft; but it is, however, by no means uncommon for this tube to be so rapidly and extensively developed as to cut off the nu- trition from the surface of the shaft, which, consequently, dies and becomes sequestrated, as a worm-eaten tube several inches in length, and the cause of much troublesome, or even dangerous delay before it can be discharged. On the whole, however, the appearance to which I would attach the chief importance for my present purpose, is one of rarer occur- rence. Fig. 16. A section showing an effect of amputation on the thigh-bone,^ namely, ossification at the circumference of the surface of suppoH. I refer to the effect of excessive pressure, and attrition, in the old healthy thigh-stump! By degrees the surface of the bone which serves for support and progression becomes expanded by deposition at its circumference, so as to present an appearance in section like the diagram above. There are other causes which induce partial little exostoses in a stump, but all these cases are alike in the fact that they depend on periostitis ; and the case is only more evident when excessive inflamma- tion deprives the new external ossifications of all appearance of healthfulncss, as sometimes happens, rendering them irregular, spongy, and not only useless, but pernicious. It mify happen that the production of now bone shall be tardy or deficient; and it is on this ac- count that I have thought it worth while to consider if some injury of the periosteum might not be contrived, in order to expand the osseous point of support in the stump. Such an experiment is not to be attempted heedlessly. In France, I believe, it has been practised at the time of amputation, but with only mischievous consequences. When the treatment of non-union is under review we must again notice this topic. Now, in the case of the healing stump we have a type of all the repairing changes of fracture. Whether the parts heal by adhe- sion, by snpjuiration without necrosis, or after the death of the cut end of the bone, and perhaps excessive formation of new shell, the analogy is equally apparent. The repair of simple or open fracture is thus completely traced out : the mere act of uniting frag- ments is all that remains to be carried out,—or rather amplified, and even this is in a manner typified ; for the formation of a dome by the extension of periosteum and bone, from side to side, of the cylinder (from the circum- ference to the centre), is precisely, in kind, what takes place, from fragment to fragment, in the repair of fractures, whether simple or open. The more the several and minute particu- lars of the cicatrizations and junctions of peri- osteum are examiijed, the more they will appear satisfactory as a series of phenomena, and valuable as a source of practical indica- tions. At least, such is my owm conviction. Periosteum, raised by effusions or violence, may again unite to its bone, and a new organi- zation may unite by adhesion to a cut surface of bone, or by granulation to an ulcerated part, as after exfoliation; and the vascular adhesion finally becomes efficient periosteum. I have adverted to the fact, that the adven- titious bone formed around the remains of a shaft after amputation, as indeed after any other excitation, tends to waste w’hen the re- paration is complete ; but this is only to be remarked as the last point of analogy, as it mav be said to represent the modelling action which concludes reunion. It is, in part, to be compared to the shrinking of a cicatrix, or exuberant granulations. The repair of ampu- tations is, as we have said, rej)eated in tliat of fractures, but with these differences: in fractures there are, as it were, tw'o amputations in one cavity * ; the injuries are considerably greater ; bnt the constitution of the sufferer is usually more efficient. Pcnostilis begins almost as soon as the injury has been injhcted. —It may be retarded, as well as obscured, by extravasation ; or hemor- rhage, or collapse, or idiosyncrasy may delay it; but the physiologist knows that the pro- ducts of intlammation arc but late proofs of its existence ; and that palpable tumefaction ' It is niiitc! poBsiblo in am])i\talion, ns in fraotnrr, tlml the (livificd ends of radius and ninn, or of tilii.a and fibula, slionld heconio united together hv ossili- ention.28 FRACTURE. and redness, and softening, are evidences of what has been going on. By the third day softening and roughening of the more in- flamed parts of bone are abundantly discover- able, and perhaps even some new bone. Fig. 17. a I o The diagrams a, 6, and c, represejit the tibia of a rabbit on the fourth^ the eighth^ and the twentieth day after fracture. The repairing exostosis is seen forming around the shaft at a distance from the bro- ken end ; and in b it is increased., and approaches nearer the point of fracture.^ c is the result of compound fracture, but the process is the same in kind. Externally, there was active peri- osteum, on the two parts, which became united, and then united the two parts of new bone. Within were granulations secreting pus, and adhering to both new and old bone as efficient periosteum. Guy's Hospital Museum contains a series of nine gra- dations of the above appearances. Fig. 18. Notwithstanding all that has been said to the contrary, it is about the fourth day after fracture that bone begins to be formed beneath the f)eriosteum, — a few ines or a few inches from the broken ends ; and gradually, in the course of four weeks, less or more, a new tube firmly en- circles each ])ortion of shaft up to its broken margins, and is prepared to unite with that which has been daily approach- ing towards it. First, however, the two tu- bular portions of pe- Fig. 18 A a someichat more careful drawing of the. counterpart of fig. 7. It represents the lower end of the tibia, obliquely fractured, impacted, and very partially repaired by new bone on the surface, at the line of fracture. The long point of the upper frag- ment, which penetrates the cancelli below, is a very narrow spicidafrom the fissure adjoining in the loicer fragment. See the description of fig. 7. riosteum must unite, in whole or in part, ex- actly in the same manner as we have remarked that the membrane cicatrized, so to speak, bv adhesion or by granulation in the example of the stump; and as soon as this is effected, ossific union begins. There is a very common case which most distinctly and fully verifies the process last described : I refer to that of fractured ribs. In animals the effects are still more re- markable by reason of the more unrestrained or more excited activity of the process when uninfluenced by art ; for here a thick node forms around each broken end, and the two ends move against each other (being more or less completely knit together by soft tissues and periosteum), until repeated external de- posits of bone, with the contractions of tissue around, have rendered motion so difficult or so limited, that the ossific union is secured at some one point, and then it is speedily completed. Fig. 19. A fractured rib, supposed to be human ; sketchedfrom a pireparation in the collection of Professor Mott in New York. There is excessive ossification, but as yet no union: membrane had enveloped and separated the two, as the periosteum of stumps. All the steps of these changes are extensively illustrated in the collections at Guy’s Hos- pital, and, indeed, I have found examples of them in different museums. The fibula, when broken singly, may afford evidence of the same train of actions to an exaggerated tle- gree, when motion prevents union and ex- cites repeated attacks of inflammation. This2.0 FRACTURE. also is exemplified in Guy’s museum. The anatomist, however, must usually expect to discover only a part of the process in one instance ; and, again, he must be provided against misconceptions by a knowledge of different modifying causes. Sometimes almost all the stages of the pro- cess are illustrated in one animal. The bones of a camel passed from the collection of the late Mr. Brookes to that of the Royal College of Surgeons, and were afterwards removed to Guy’s Hospital. It appears that the animal had had nearly all its ribs broken not long before death, and the proofs of different stages of repair, according to the motion and irritation of each bone, are well established, by the varying size, &c. of the masses of new bone which encircle the several shafts on each side of the lines of separation. There are many contradictory statements of facts, which render it extremely difficult for the reader to judge of the due importance of periosteum, in the repair of fractures, and it is not possible to give a definite expression of its value for all cases. The membrane may be extensively removed from a young bone with little inconvenience, and, in later periods of life, it can hardly be said to be indispensable to the vitality of the spot it covers; but, on the other hand, it is, as we have said, in every way the most efficient source of nutritive, and, there is every evidence to show, of reparative action also. Bones mainly grow by successive external depositions, while the internal action is, in the main, (though still nutritive,) an exca- vating process from the beginning. It is by no means established, as has been asserted, that the destruction of the medul- lary membrane must cause the death of the shaft, indeed, there is much evidence to the contrary. In the collection of St. Thomas’s hospital is an os humeri, filled with acejihalo- cysts (hydatids), which have greatly dilated the tube, and materially expanded the bone itself, doubtless by internal pressure and ab- sorption, and by external inflammation and deposition. In the Guy’s museum there are very satisfactory instances of the death of the cylinder without that of the contained cancellus. Troja destroyed the medullary membrane, and the shaft died ; but even in this case the explanation inferred may be deceptive. I was once concerned in performing simi- lar experiments with Mr. Aston Key ; and judging from these and what I have seen besides, I am decidedly of opinion that the periostitis producing new bone around the old is often the cause of the death of the latter, and that such an idea tends most rea- sonably to explain the death of the shaft in the experiment of Troja. If the new bone in forming adhere to the shaft, the latter cannot be dead : in propor- tion, therefore, as there is evidence that such an adhesion has existed, so is it established that the new ossification preceded the death of the old bone. It is not always thus, how- ever ; for severe inflammation may at once separate the periosteum from the bone of a stump to a considerable extent, and so far the bone will probably die ; yet, above the necro- tic changes, ossification proceeds, and, guided and supplied by the separated periosteum, new bone grows almost indefinitely. Thus the dead shaft may be included in a new C3’linder, but the inner surface of the new bone can have no defined relation to, any more than connexion with, the sequestrum, because of the intervention of granulating periosteum, which lines the tube of the new bone, as well as of its purulent secretion. Sir A. Cooper, and also Mr. Symes of Edinburgh, removed about an inch from the middle of a dog’s radius, including the perios- teum, and no intermediate bone was repro- duced. In another case Mr. Symes removed a like portion, leaving the periosteum as little injured as possible, and the reproduction of bone in the cavity was excessive ; but we must not, with him, assume too hastily that a specific function is thus proved to belong to periosteum ; for we must recollect that in the last experiment a well-organized membi’ane, in a state of tension and excitement, was left to complete a process which had been equally begun (though not described) in both expe- riments, namely, ossification beneath the periosteum of the divided ends of the radius. The museum of Guy’s Hospital con- tains the evidence of this. I cannot doubt, that, in the experiment where the periosteum was left, the unob- structed excavation was filled up progressively from the two ends ; bone upon bone being suc- cessively deposited, until the two growing heaps within the active periosteum came in contact and united. Here, too, it should be observed, there is a strict resemblance to the result of common persistent bands of periosteum between two broken ends of bone. In the experiments where both bone and membrane were removed, the interspace was filled by soft deposits, and each cut end of the radius healed as in a common stump,— except in some of the experiments of Sir A. Cooper, in which I perceive that ossific inflammation at the end of each section has united each radius to the ulna adjacent. It will not be expected of me in this place to detail the process of the formation of the stag’s horn ; but I cannot avoid remarking, that some of the general doctrines which I have brought forward arc happily corrobo- rated by the circumstances of the growth of horn. After the exfoliation of an antler, there is cicati-ization of periosteum, then a continual deposit of bone upon bone from the abundant blood of the investing mem- brane, whilst internal absorption rather than deposition prevails. Fractures of these parts, in the growing state, may also become repaired in the same manner us common bone. ThisFRACTURE, 30 is to be seen in the museum of the London College of Surgeons. The agency of the medullary membrane in the morbid or reparative changes of bone, is not unworthy of attention ; hut at the same time it is manifestly not deserving of all the consideration that has been claimed for it. When cancelli are separated by a fissure, or even more serious fracture, if fair coaptation follow, the internal bony fibres slowly thicken, unite, and become remodelled ; and when we examine the interior of a bone that has been fractured or diseased, we may discover some little, or, rarely, even great proofs of osseous thickening. As to the bony plug of some philosophers, it is comparatively rare, partial, and insignificant; and I think that those, who with myself have generally found the reunion of bone completed without the plug, are bound to consider the account doubtful, at least, as an essential part of reunion. As a physiological fact, it would be easy to show that the cancellated structure, when un- usually strained, or acted on by pressure, is capable of increased nutrition and hyper- trophy, to meet the exigency ; but that effect, in its freedom, is only proper to the surfaces of bones ; the interior being peculiarly sub- ject to the process of excavation, from the moment that the first grain of incipient ossifi- cation is apparent, until near the end of life. This grand and curious law would be out of place at this time, were it not essential to the remodelling of united fractures, which is,doubt- less, all that is to be understood by the term of definitive callus. The bond of union of broken bones, if quickly formed, is too abund- ant, and too soft; but under all ordinary cir- cumstances it is too massive ; and hence we find a double series of changes arising, after the generally inflamed tissues are inclined to become quiescent. Motion and tension induce the continued nutrition and consolidation of the surface, and particularly of any feeble part, which by yielding is inflamed, and so becomes addi- tionally nourished; but the central parts of a massive reunion, whether consisting of old or new bone, or of both, have no longer their necessary share of pressure to resist, or injec- tion to nourish them, and they become atro- phic, as all unused structures do ; and this is the cause of the ultimate reopening and con- tinuous communication of the medullary tube —even though a double layer of the original shell or shaft, as sometimes happens, inter- cept the communication after the consolida- tion. Many simple fractures become first united by ligament; that is to say, the organization of a soft bond of union precedes the ossific con- solidation of the fragments ; this, for instance, happens in all the eases of fracture in which os- sification is abundant, but union isJ'Ctarded. In these, a layer of ligamentous matter separates the two broken ends, which are severally encir- cled by new spongy bone. (See figs. 293 and 304.) The early ligamentous union, however, is in a manner proper to the fracture of cancel- lated bone. We may often see, where a shaft and its cancelli are transversely divided, that while ligament alone has reunited the cancellated surfaces (they being in good appo- sition), the ossification encircling either broken end, beneath its periosteum, has scarcely be- gun to join with that of the opposite frag- ment. Occasionally, too, it is apparent that the superficial bonj^ union is complete, while the ligamentous union within has scarcely begun to give place to bone; which, however slowly, it will be found ultimately to do. These facts are to be set in opposition to the idea of bony reunion commencing in the interior of shafts. The ordinary scanty ossi- fication of cancellated bones, and the liga- mentous unions, common to many when broken, tend to the same eonclusion. The conviction of the comparative inertness of adult cancellated tissue will speedily be con- firmed by the e.xamination of repairing bones in man. It is too much to assert, that all appear- ance of a bony plug to the tube of bone at the seat of fracture, is a mere delusion, for we have already described the sealing which fol- lows amputation ; and we have yet to advert to the effect of a band of periosteum,—when deflected so as to lie upon the opening of a broken shaft,—in inducing a speedy extension of ossification in this direction, which occur- rence may have given rise to the idea of a bony plug; I cannot, however, refrain from stating my supposition, that the born' plug, described by some as an extensive formation within the tube, can be no other than a delu- sive appearance depending on an oblique sec- tion of the uniting fragments, by which a superficial part of the shaft, or of the new bone, has been made to appear in the middle of the surface exposed for examination. The medullary membrane is, no doubt, in every sense the periosteum of the reticular fibres, but these in general are declining parts, though not always so. The knee-joint of a child being ankylosed in a fixed position may cause a new strain on its internal bony fibres, and, in consequence, while others waste, some become unequally thickened, and progressively grow in a new direction, in accordance with the new existing tension, until strong enough to resist, and then they become stationary; or rather, the tension, still later, becomes most influential at the surface of the bones, and there produces commensu- rate hypertrophy and power of resistance, and thus the cancelli being no longer strained and freely nourished, proceed in their wonted course of atrophy, and even disappear. In a young bone, endosteitis may cause great narrowing of the medulhny cavity by bon^' deposition. In an older bone, the result of fracture simple or open may be to turn a portion of shell inside out; that is, Assuring and displacement may leave part of the me- dullary cavity of a shaft to form the exteriorFRACTURE. 31 during tlio wliolc course of tlie consolidation, but nutrition in the end becomes active in pi'oportion to the new wants of this part, and that which was once on the outside being involved in definitive callus, may have little or nothing to strain it or stimulate its nutri- tion, and in that case it will tend to waste away. In the recent active reparation of fracture in growing bones, the alteration of cancellated tissue may be distinctly seen. I think I have the means of demonstrating thickening of fibres, and the formation of little grains and points—bone upon bone—in different degrees, but I cannot concur with those who describe a solid plug in the canal of the bone. The foundation of the present theory of ossification was no doubt held by Haller, and Dethleef, and Sir A. Cooper ; indeed figs. a.b, and c, 17, are from results of old, and, I believe, unpublished experiments of Sir A. Cooper; and the pieces referred to were employed by Dr. Hodgkin in his pathological lectures at Guy’s hospital to illustrate similar views. Miiller also advocates the principle that bone only forms bone. The objections that are brought forward by some are too indistinct and feeble, and by no means corro- borated by common facts, although their state- ments may possibly involve matters that re- main to be duly connected to the general doctrine herein advanced. Fig. 20. Hunter observes, “ The ossific sub- stance is first depo- sited at the extre- mity of the bones themselves, and then extends to the cal- lus ; at the same time, several points in the callus are form- ing ossific matter. Young people seem to have a greater disposition to form ossific matter than old, but there is a difference even in those of the same age. This new sub- stance is similar to the original bone, and on this account probably is stronger than that from gra- nulation ; however, it is not so durable f lew of a recent fracture of the humerus, in ruhich unnt/ incrustation has commenced, preparatory to sur- roundiny the hroken ends more completelu, and finally umlinr/the two. as the original bones are. This process must necessarily he more tedious than in the soft parts, in consequence of the second process which is required ; sometimes no union takes place for a length of time after the accident, and the variety of callus is great k” The above assertion, that ossification com- mences by several independent points in the callus, though favoured by many, requires new proof, and also that some deceptive circum- cumstances should be taken into consideration. The excessive activity of reparation in young bones, the great excitement of repeated mo- tions in the broken limbs of animals, and irre- gularities of the organization of what is called callus, necessarily induces diverging lines and layers of new bone more easily in some direc- tions than in others, and these vital crystalli- zations (so to speak) must appear isolated in sections, and very readily become detached in every mode of examination. In examining the preparations of a distin- guished investigator of the process of bony reunion, I found that all the discrepancies as to the order of time were explicable by the fact, that when the process seemed unduly advanced, it was evident that the bones were young, and, on the contrary, the tardy repa- rative actions were manifestly in the bones of the oldest animals, Mr. Hunter, in stating the different de- grees of activity in repairing bone manifested in different ages and by different constituti- ons, points to a material source of discrepancy amongst authors ; and when the various de- grees of the tendency to bony atrophy or absorption which other constitutions evince are taken into the account, we may do still more towards reconciling the different state- ments of investigators. In the third fasciculus of drawings from the Army Medical Museum, at Chatham (PI. IX. fig. 5), are represented “ parietal bones, from which a large portion of the entire thickness has exfoliated. The deficiency is filled up with membranous matter; and there has been an attempt at reparation by the formation of small osseous plates in the membrane, quite detached from the old bone. This drawing illustrates the formation of new bone at a dis- tance from the old bone,—a fact at variance with the opinion of Haller and Dethleef.” Now, the fact here assumed cannot be said to bo proved. It is not intended to deny that the assumption may by possibility and in rare instances be true, but it will be evi- dent that inflammation must have surrounded the portion which was about to become necrotic, and that new bone may have been • It IB true that when a false joint siiccccds fracture, the hroken ends may not oven he closed up, or that they may he very thickly coated with hone. 'J’hc case of deficiency may he nttrihuted to diathesis and ah- senco of attritions, while the excessive ossification is to he imputed to a prevalence of bone in the system, and to free pressure of the broken ends against each other. Even witliont pressure, if a strong ligamen- tous union is established, the tension which may bo caused by exerting the limb will excite the nutri- tion of the bony surfaces into which the ligament is inserted, as in ligamentous ankylosis. IFRACTURE. 32 formed upon the inner face of the old before its death, and subsequently have been sepa- rated with the living membrane. When we see, in the very lengthened liga- mentous union of a broken patella, an isolated point of bone, are we to infer that it is a new ossification, or an old fragment? If a cica- trization appear to have commenced in the centre of a broad ulcer, do we not regard it as a very doubtful exception to an almost constant course of events ? and shall we not enquire what there is to prove that a penin- sula of skin has not been detached to form it ? The following instance from the work last quoted is another of the kind which demands the most cautious examination, since it is op- posed to the common course of events— unless, indeed, it be only an erroneous view of a common fact. “ Fig. 6, PI. 9, is a section of the fractured humerus of a rabbit, nine days after the injury. As is generally the case in over- lapping fractures (with angular displace- ment), the reparative process is principally Fig. 21. Fie. 21 M a sufficievtly faithful drawing of recently repuruied fracture of thcjeniur, in the Museum of Guii's Ilosjntal. There has tmen a dotdjle transverse, and lonaitudinal. fracture. The fragments Im soft 'sjmmw hone, and it is very apparent that the new osslficalton hits t>een formed only where it w(M wanted, where injured hone was present, and beneath, oru/inal and cicatrized periosteum. Some parts, as well as the medullary cavity, seem to hare been but incompletely repaired. confined to the concave side of the frag, ments, which is filled ui) by a fibro-carti laginilorm substance, in the centre of whicl is seen a distinct osseous nucleus, quit' unconnected wdth the old bone. In sonn- experiments made by Mr. Gulliver, this dis- tinct point of ossification was generally ob served when there was great displacement o the fragments, appearing to be a provision t( facilitate the union between the regular cal lus, which commences at a distance fron the fractured extremities. This central bony matter, therefore, being dependent on thi accidental circumstances of the case, migh be termed the irregular or accidental callus- to distinguish it from the regular callus, whicl always commences at a distance from the line of fracture.” The account here given of the situation o the principal mass of cartilaginous matten assists to demonstrate the states which almos- every displacement after fractures must leac to. When the boundaries of inflammatior exceed the limits of injury a little in all direc- tions, and fragments are thrust almost out o. these limits, the latter must of course be fair removed from the centre of the repairing, products, and, finally, the contraction which follows inflammatory tumefactions leaves the- most displaced points still more superficial!} • placed. This statement is not equally applicable tc the mass of new bone; for, while with angulan displacement the broken ends are inclinec from the centre of mischief and its inflaniraa-. tory consequences, the excited ossification with every kind of fracture, follows the origi - nal bone, depends on its presence, its injury> and its vascular supply ; is kept up by its- wants, (weakness and motion, &c.) and de- clines as the increased strength of the unior obviates the yielding that excites inflamma- tion. Thus we see, at a glance, why tht chief ossifications occur exactly, and only- where they are required ; that is, where £ Eart is yielding, or unduly strained ; anc ence we know that due consolidation cannoC be accomplished, until the parts have for £ while experienced their full share of strain and tension. These views are sufficientl} illustrated in the following example of a ver} common appearance. The author, Mr. Gulliver, justly observed! that the regular callus (bone) commences at a distance from the fractured extremities, i. e. as 1 have shown, bone, upon the bone beneath the periosteum. The “ irregular or accidental callus,” when I have found it, has been formed' in precisely the same way as the most regular ossification, a fragment of the original bone forming the basis, as it wore, of crystalli- zation. It is from the results of experiments on rodents and carnivora, animals of the most rapid and active circulations (next to birds) and from the appearances produced by exces- sive inflammation, and continued motion ol^ the broken bone, that the idea has arisen oiFRACTURE. 33 isolated spiculae in soft callus. This has often been asserted as a fact ; but I have never heard that any one has even attempted to demonstrate its reality, with a just notion of the objections and difficulties that the case involves. Every museum contains the alleged proofs of these facts ; but I may safely ask, where is the collection, in which we may find a series of specimens to establish the spontaneous and independent commencement of bony callus,— the successive stages of irregular or accidental callus ? The formation of all bones, by initia- tive points of ossification, follows peculiar laws ; and it is not impossible that the same laws are to be seen in operation in other instances ; but the ordinary rule of repairing fracture is parallel to the growth and not to the commencement of bone ; it is hone upon bone, wherever increased nutrition or inflammation is excited. It is in this stage of the enquiry that I think it desirable to comment on certain mechanical changes, which fracture produces, in the state and relation of the periosteum of the parts concerned ; for these changes will appear to have remarkable influences on the form of the new bone. We may observe, that first, in cases of fis- sured bone the periosteum may remain undi- vided ; secondly, it may be seen merely fis- sured, or, perhaps, slightly torn in one or two parts; thirdly, we may find in simple trans- verse fracture of a long bone, that the perios- teum is completely divided ; fourthly, we may find in a similar case various undivided slips, connecting the two main fragments, or link- ing smaller portions of bone with them. It may almost suffice to refer to the diagrams below for a demonstration of the principal directions which remaining bands must take in ordinary cases. Figs. 22. In th^se diewrams the dolled lines indicate various dire iwnH, winch f racture with dvtphicemcni may nive hand.s of periosteum, and they arc most cerlaMy ti mdxcntions of tke outlines of repairing bone whi formed No. 5 ts drawn with the same view, b. lines are introduced to explain the appearance oftu sides. No. n represents denuded points of bone, out of the influence of periosteum; and thus they usually remain to dfi, or rather to waste. Admittiny that these drawings are exaggerations, I may assure the enquirer that he may find abundant representatives of Nos. 1, 4, 5, fi, 7, and 8, in repaired fractures.FRACTURE. 34 It is manifest enough when such points as those in No. 8, fig. 22, and various loose spi- cular portions, are seen partially involved in, or projecting from, a newly consolidated mass, that they must produce forms of which it may not be easy to surmise the rise and progress ; especially when absorption also has finally had time to work its remodelling alterations. There is a rare appearance which 1 have met with in repairing fracture, which may ex- plain the foundation of the above considera- tions, and I think, also, place them in a very unequivocal light. For instance, an oblique fracture of the femur with considerable over- lapping of fragments, and but little division of periosteum, shall be affected with violent inflam- mation and tumefaction, and the sufferer shall die of coma after phrenitis, almost before ossi- fication shall be supposed to have commenced. After macerating the parts, a cell of new bone is seen like a swan’s egg, or larger, with thin, delicate, spongy, and fragile walls, irre- gular and somewhat divided by fissures and vacant spaces, enveloping all the fracture, and adhering only around the two shafts at a con- siderable distance from their broken ends, which are totally devoid of ossific changes. This egg-shell could never be made out by sections of soft callus. Traces of the appear- ance described ai’e not very uncommon, and occasionally considerable parts become perma- nent and solid. The phenomenon is only rare as a whole. It is a cast of the inner surface of the periosteum after it has been detached by rapid and excessive inflammatory effusion, and after ossification, beginning where periosteum adhered to bone, had been hastily formed (bone upon bone), wherever a due supply of blood was ready for the purpose. When we find that the outer faces of the new bone assume an irregular aspect, and even throw out spines and other inequalities, we are led to seek for the causes of these varieties, and to enquire what share the peri- osteum may have had in their production. We observe that the bands of membrane may be torn across, and this without inducing any necessary or material inequality either in the direction of the two parts, or in the ossifica- tion which they appear still in a great mea- sure to regulate. We may also trace the circumstances already described where a o-rcater separation has occurred, and a com- mensurate disturbance, or delay, has arisen in the progress of the union; but it is when a divided °band of i)eriosteurn becomes much everted, or even reflected, that some of the most perverted forms of ossification arc ulti- mately found. , external It is, however, a general earthy callus has always one eriostcal) surface ; and without dwelling on . 1 fV»nt mnv hn law, even tL partial, or unreal exceptions, that may be advanced, I have made this statement to facili- tate the explanation of the forms of old callus. The enquirer will not be induced to suppose that the formation of iioriostcum follows that of its bone, although the characters of the membrane, following that of its bone, are ne cessarily changed when growth ceases am unnecessary parts become removed. With regard to the relative position o ! fragments and periosteal bands, the observe ; will find a parallel between No. 4, fig. 22 am 23, and between No. 5, fig. 22 and 24 ; and in the respective drawings are to be seen indi. cations of the sites of active periosteum in th( i surfaces of the new bone. It will be manifest that the course of th«' periosteal bands depends on the particulai- bone broken and the nature of the displace - ments of its parts, and that occasionally there,’ will be various combinations of the particular' instances, which the diagrams explain. Hi will also be necessary to remember, that in eluding the effects of inflammation in sepa- rating the periosteum, the diagrams may bf far surpassed by the realities, as I could full}- and readily prove with the specimens ir:: hand. It is necessary to make allowancef^ also for what I have explained with reference- to the cicatrization or reunion of periostead layers. Now, if it be true, as I do not doubt; Fig. 23. Open fracture of the femur—necrosis and reunion in p ro(/ress.—O ufs Afuse uni. This fipure represents one of the. innumerahle forms of reunion^ ami may so'vc to illw^trate the method oj considering the mirts, in order to erjdain the oriptn and course of the new formations. At the end of each fraijment are necrotic jwrtions in process of separa- tion. The new bonds attached to the Hr ini/, and has nenrtii effected a junction of the two portions. The caiernal sponpi/ tissue indicate.s the new bone., the out- line of which IS ihat of active periosteum. The end of the la rpcrfrapment seems to hax'e been stript of its periosteum, as 'the ovcrlappimj took place; and its < dispdaced membrane seems to liax^e caused the prin- cipal mass of ossification, adherinxjto the upi>er frag- ment. The points in closest pi‘o,ximitx/, and xchxchaie ofnexo bone, were united bxj ligament or membmne.FRACTURE, 35 it is, that the bands of periosteum wherever they exist are the means of determining the precise outline of the so-called definitive callus, we see a clear proof of the value of the periosteum, and an important source of information as to the method of union to be favoured in particular cases. In the examination of old united fractures in which the external surfaces of the new bone are more or less straight or simply curved, the exact course which persistent bands of periosteum must (according to the displacement, &c.) have taken, is found por- trayed in a very remarkable manner by the different outlines of the new bony surfaces. If the observer is familiar with the cha- racter of united bones, or if my reader will examine the forms which the adjoining dia- grams are intended to represent, there wdll, I think, be no difficulty in explaining all the common appearances in the union of bones, upon the principles which have been here referred to. There are still, however, some results which I believe to depend on other and very different causes. To conclude what has been thus adduced ; if the frequency of the appearances described be admitted, and if the knowledge be deemed essential in practice, the examination is not merely a matter of curiosity; and whether Fig. 24. Fig. 24 represmils reunion of’ a broken femur. At first svjht the upper portion has much the appearance of the bone of a stump, A band of bone is uniting the two fragments as they appear in section., and tfie same thing was erpudly remarkable in the opposite section ; but it is evident that the central dark cavitij being devoid of ossiJv:ation, and open below, we cannot well admit the idea of a solid callus inclosing ttie. two ends; also we see. at once that some cause has determined the e-nstence of ossifw bands at the sides onty and that is where periosteal layers man have continued entire,—(Juy^s Museum. these opinions be true, or not, may be best tested by following the description of parti- cular instances. In the diagram. No. 5, Fig. 22, the bones overlap, and two of the fibrous bands remain unbroken, parallel to each other, uniting the two fragments; and I shall sujipose each layer to have produced an ossific band exactly corresponding to its own extent and direc- tion, and we shall there have, in fact, precisely the bands of bony reunion, that we may every now and then meet with, and which I imagine it will be very difficult to refer to any other cause than the one I have endeavoured to unfold. It is desirable to observe, that often no band or strips will be left to unite the frag- ments ; or that when discoverable they will be chiefly divided, or inefficient; but we have seen that the bands are by no means necessary ; and we have yet to show that another mode of union (by the absorption of periosteum), though facilitated by bands, ma- terially obscures the comprehension of the process already described. The transverse division of a shaft, with some overlapping, often occurs (No. 1. fig. 22), where the torn periosteum, so far from facilitating reunion, might seem at times rather calculated to ob- struct it; either by being interposed in a double layer between the ends to be con- solidated, or by being stript backwards and displaced, so removing vascular supply from the parts most needing it. This will not be found unreasonable or imaginary. Also when a transverse fracture, with complete division of periosteum, has been reapposed without any displacement, the ossific junction may be most feeble and tardj%—since the first injury (the only cause of inflammation) may not be equal to maintaining the activity of the loose periosteum, without tension of bands, or the excitement of occasional motions ; and it is quite evident that motion may excite in- creased ossification, while it yet retards union. If the states we have been considering be attended with a general inclination of fibrous bands from one broken end to the other (as in Nos. 3, 5, and 6, Fig. 22), not only will the union be the stronger, but the denu- dation of the remote angles of the fracture (Nos. 6 and 8, Fig. 22) will facilitate their absorption, which, as jiarts not serving for support, we shall find them otherwise liable to. If, on the other hand, the main direction of the periosteal strips shall be from the points of bony contact (No. 7, Fig. 22), it is manifest that the determination of vascular and ossific action towards these points should be jiropor- tionatcly diminished ; and so indeed it hap- pens. Another remark involves the enquiry What has become of that periosteum whose agency I have hinted may be neither required nor employed in the reparative jiroccss ? In Nos. 4 and 7, Fig. 22, the dotted lines represent rudely, but distinctly, the direction ill which the layers would be most forcibly ex- tended ; and if in any single case a specimen could be produced, having these linos pretty clearly defined in bone, it could, I think, scarcely be doubted, that the outline of the3G FRACTURE. new bone had been marked out by some effi- cient circumscribing cause ; and that each of its inflexions is just such as would be pro- duced by the well-organized periosteum, pro- ducing bone within itself, only not supposing it to remain entire in lengths after a fracture, but merely to have this general inclination. The truth is, however, that various traces only of such an arrangement of the consoli- dating material are to be found in each case, but the disturbing causes of this formation are too numerous to be adverted to with very precise indications. We have next to observe a different mode of reunion,—a difference of process though not of principle,—in the case of a broken extre- mity, pressing with greater or less obliquity against a portion of shaft in its natural invest- ment, as in a fracture attended with much overlapping. Here the process is very pecu- liar, and the first union is mainly in propor- tion to the extent of surfaces thus brought into opposition. No. 1, Fig. 22, may facilitate the explana- tion of the process required under the cir- cumstances last named ; i. e. the simple over- lapping of two broken ends, with a pretty close opposition of their sides. This seems to demand the absorption of all intervening fibrous tunic before union can occur; but here the agency of other periosteum is not needed, since the circumference of that which is removed (in consequence of lateral com- pression of the two bones) is involved at the same time in inflammation, and the neces- sary earthy secretion is deposited on both bones, and an intimate agglutination of the two is thus effected. The changes are in order thus :—pressure and absorption of inter- vening periosteum ; surrounding inflammation with deposits ; then, union of adjoining edges of periosteum ; and afterwards of adjoining edges of new bony layers formed By the inflamed periosteum. We have seen that one half of this process is performed when a tumour makes sufficient circumscribed pressure against a bone. The compressed membrane is absorbed, and the spot goes near to die, whilst a ridge of adven- titious bone surrounds it, having been pro- duced beneath that periosteum, which irrita- tion, short of destruction, had driven into activity. It is unnecessary to follow out the peculiarities and deviations of this process after fractures. It will suffice to say, that reparative ossification is mostly scanty in spongy bones ; and that the mode of union by the absorption of periosteum will often mingle with that which is effected by continuity or cicatrization of the membrane ; but it still remains to be remarked, that the feeble union, which may result from the contact of an incon- siderable point or extremity with a lateral surface of shaft, may be greatly strengthened by accidental injuries, or even by a complete repetition of fracture, giving rise to more extensive inflammation and osseous ettusion. This is not a trifling consideration, whether it concerns practical desiderata or mischiefs- to be obviated. The kind of union referred to is not rare : the broken bones of the fore arm and leg often become knit together *; a fractured vertebral spinous process adheres to one adjoining and unbroken ; fracture with luxation leads to ankylosis, or the broken end of a humerus becomes consolidated with the scapula, &c. Suppose, with the displacement- represented in fig. 1, only a narrow point of- the inferior fragment to have come in contact- with the surface of the shaft above, and the- natural consequences are sufficiently certain. A wound, or pressure, with absorption, pre- cedes ossification around each point of con- tact ; and the more of moderate disturbance, or even of repeated fractures, the more pro- longed and copious is the ossification, until itt becomes too strong to yield. I think these- things cannot be doubted, and that a know- ledge of the effect of motion is of great prac- tical importance. It belongs to the manage- ment of all common fractures as well as of ununited fractures, and also to the tr'eatment- of impending ankylosis, and to the surgical cure of established ankylosis. Fig. 25. Fruclura of the femur, u-ith lateral tlkpluccment and reunion. The pressure of the opposed fraynumts has - produced inflammation and ahsoiption of periosteum, and subsequently ossific union. Both disused ends have been closed up, and one is now in proyress of atrophy. The centre of the solid callus is also in process of ex- cavation, while its outline is dense and thick, l>einp more particularly the juirt u'hich supports the strain which the whole s)uift has to resist. The examination of many specimens, as that ' In the Museum at St. Tlioinns’s hospital is a- clavicle, which lias been comminutcil in the middle, and is become consolidated with the coracoid process , of the scapula.FRACTURE. ,S7 of fig. 34, may induce the student to remark the breadth of separation of the two frag- ments, and the quantity or mass of bone which is interposed between them. This is an important and striking circumstance, and may one day materially aifect the treatment of fractures : the interposed mass is often the cause of the wide separation of fragments ; and the quantity interposed depends on the activity of the inflammation, its continuance, and the delay of reunion by repeated motions. A very different observation is called for, when a firm lateral union has taken place sub- sequently to the removal of intervening peri- osteum. We have seen that bone, whether denuded by this or more violent means, is near to death, and ready for absorption ; but we have to look a little further for the expla- nation of that process by which the shaft is pierced anew, in order to re-establish one con- tinuous medullary canal, or cancellated tissue. With respect to the alterations in the broken ends, some kinds of non-union ap- proach most nearly to the result of amputa- tion. After the saw or fracture, ossification, &c. may be defective or slow from various causes; and when fracture is attended with much displacement or separation of fragments by the intervention of soft parts or seques- tration of a dead portion, reunion may, not- withstanding abundant ossification, be long or permanently prevented, and we may then say there are two stumps. The remodelling of ossific union is not without interest, as the last step of a series of changes which I presume may be spoken of as both simple and clear. It is the presence of bone in the circulating system which leads to its formation. In proof of this, consider the stag’s horn. The cause, which fixes the precise spots of incipient (foetal) ossification is, I conceive, specific. The event takes place in a solid nidus at a point where many convergent forces or pressures are concen- trated. The continuance of ossification (being, as it were, a columnar growth against gravity) follows a similar rule ; for it is a deposition where pressure is greatest; and whether we regard the order in which the nuclei of all the bones begin, or the order of rapidity with which each one grows, the activity is evi- dently in dependence on the tensions of the parts '. That much depends on tension seems corroborated by the final remark, that when tension is removed from the centre it be- comes absorbed ; and this exjilains the exca- vation of bone, the course of simple atrophy, and the modelling of definitive callus, while it cannot be too strongly enforced that the ’ The form of every bone, and process of bone, and even tlic arranpnncnt of every fibre of rancclliis, seems to me to bo regulated by tlie above principle. To illiistriitc this opinion would l)e bore out of place, tbougb it is a valuable consideration if it ho apidicablo to all other tissues, as I do not doubt it to be. The ten- sions or excitements of a part are equal to its uses and its wants : the supply, in kind, in manner, and in Bite, to the minutest point, is determined by the ten- sions; which tenainns declining, atrophy begins. mere disproportionate weakness of a part loads to augmented nutrition in that part, (if nutritive material fail not,) whether it be membrane, muscle, or bone. It may not be amiss to advert again to the causes which sustain the repairing ossification until it is sufficient. We see injury, pressure, tension of periosteal bands, and almost rub- bing of bones, combine to keep up inffamma- tion, until consolidation prevents all these in- fluences ; for if the uniting medium be so weak as to yield in any manner, there is still cause of fresh inflammation or nutrition. The changes which follow efficient union will be adverted to in another place. For a brief review of this appended chapter I may repeat, 1st, That the periosteum, whe- ther original, or derived from granulation, adhesion, or cicatrization, is the chief source of the reparation, as of the nutrition of bone, and that the original membrane is only in degree more efficient than the adventitious : 2ndly, That, whatever nidus may precede, the ossification goes on beneath periosteum—bone upon bone—till the fragments are cemented by the union of tw’O portions of new bone : 3rdly, The causes of ossification are inflamma- tion, the presence of bone and the existence of the necessary material in the blood: 4thly, Remodelling absorption finally comes into operation, and its cause is that of the declin- ing nutrition, disease, &c. The mode of reparation of divided bone having been explained, there still remain to be considered the natural methods by which the various concomitant injuries of fractures may proceed towards restoration or fatal mis- chief; but for the studj"- of them we must refer the reader to the account of wounds, gangrene, &c., and to the particular fractures most commonly subject to such attendant circumstances. 0.\ THE TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. In speaking of the treatment of fractures in general, what first naturally presents itself to us for consideration, is the proper manner and means of conveying the patient from the place, where he has met with the accident, to the bed, where the methodical reduction of the fracture, and the apjjlication of the apparatus to maintain it, are to be made. This part of the treatment is often, and especially in fractures of the spine, and of the lower extremity, of very great consequence ; but, unfortunately, it rarely falls to the lot of the surgeon to con- duct it. In hospital practice wo frequently meet with cases of bad fracture, which have been conveyed by j)ersons altogether igno- rant of the |)roper precautions, for consider- able distances, on a common cart,—the jolt- ing of which, continually driving the rag- ged fragments, or sj)liutcrs, into the flesh, causes severe suffering to the ])atienf, and must seriously aggravate the inflammation necessarily resulting from the fracture itself. I have lately had under my care a on«p DFRACTURE. 38 ot bad open fi-uctiire of the femur, witli laceration of tlie synovial capsule of the knee-joint, which was brought in this manner, a distance of twenty miles, to the Richmond hospital. In the event of his having an opportunity of su])erintending this part of the treatment, the surgeon should have his mind made up as to the expedients to be had recourse to, as substitutes for the proper apparatus of splints, &c. for securing the fragments, M'hich apparatus he would, of course, not have at hand. The fracture of a large bone, or one in- volving mischief or danger to important or- gans, should hardly be left for a moment to its own course, or to the interference of incom- petent persons. Fractures affecting the safety of the brain, or any viscus of the trunk, all require peculiar modes of management from the instant that the injury is received. For the sake of explaining generally the kind of care which is requisite, I select a common and severe case ; others will be treated of in their proper places. We shall suppose the surgeon to be on the spot, where a gentleman, in hunting, is thrown from his horse, and has the thigh-bone frac- tured by a stroke from his hoof; or where a coach is upset, and a passenger meets with a similar injury, far from any place where he can remain until the effects of the ac- cident are repaired. In what manner is the surgeon to proceed ? Having ascertained the existence of the fracture, and having got three or four assistants, he should cut oft' the boot, and cut or rip the outer seam of the breeches on the side of the injury, so as completely to expose the thigh. He will then give the sound limb in charge to one assistant, and the leg of the other to a second, while he himself, grasping the thigh tirmly, if possible, above and below the frac- ture, keeps the fragments during the transport of the patient as motionless with regard to one another as he can. The fewer assistants he employs, if they are not overburthened, the better. If, therefore, the patient is not very heavy, and the third assistant is strong, he may commit the charge of carrying the trunk to him alone. Let him direct this assistant, turning his face towards the feet of the patient, and having his right arm next him, to take hold of the patient’s chest imme- diately below the axillae, if possible clasping his hands under the spine, while the patient, with or without the aid of a handkerchief passed over the opposite shoulder of the assistant, helps to support his own body by clinging round the neck of the assistant. I think it of some importance to make tliese arrangements with a view to carry the patient feet foretnost, that he may see the way he is going. He will thus, in the state of nervous alarm in which he is, be less liable to invo- luntary muscular efforts, which are always j)ro- ductive of mischief, as, not being anticipated by the surgeon, he cannot be j)rc|)ared to counteract them. The patient is now to he conveyed, with tlie greatest possible gentle- ness and concert of movement on the part of the surgeon and his assistants, to the nearest house, where he may be placed on a bed till ])reparations are made for carrying him to his destination with as much ease and safety to him as the case admits of. Before moving, the surgeon should exhort the patient to make no exertion, except for the support of his body, but to leave himself quite passive in the hands of the surgeon and assistants. The next problem the surgeon has to deal with is to procure substitutes for cushions, splints, and bandages, to secure the fractured limb. Let him provide himself with ten or twelve willow, hazel, or other straight rods, about as thick as the little finger, and long enough to run from the great ti ochanter to the foot. Let each of these be bedded neatly in a small quantity of unbroken straw, and bound with twine. Three of these bound to one another side by side, in three or four places, will form an extempore splint of the length of the limb, and caj)able of adapting itself to its form. Three or four splints of this kind may be constructed. Cushions for these are next to be made of old linen, or any other soft materials the surgeon can lay his hands on. If tow is to be had, it will be of great use in filling up vacant spaces ; if not, any soft material that can be got, must be substituted. A many-tailed bandage (see Bandage) is now to be placed on the splint intended for the back of the limb, and a long single-headed roller, or tape, or cord, is to be prepared, to fix the splints when applied. It will be perceived, that it is my opinion that the limb should be secured in the ex- tended position. This is not the precept usually given in directing the manner of con- veying the patient under these circumstances, but I am persuaded it is the best. The ex- tent of continuous plane on which the limb rests, when it is extended, makes it more difficult to disturb it, than when it lies on a doubly inclined plane ; and the straight posi- tion affords facilities for obstructing the lateral movements of the limb, by pillows or other- wise, such as do not exist in the semiflexed position. The surgeon is now to reduce the tracture carefully. I shall not here enter into any particulars respecting this operation, which will be minutely considered by and by, but shall suppose it done. Next, while the surgeon preserves the reduction with his own hands, he and one assistant raise the whole limb, so as to permit a second to slip the splint, covered with its cushion and the many-tailed bandage, fairly underneath it. The limb is then to be let gently down on the splint, an assistant sup- porting it, while the surgeon applies the pieces of the many-tailed bandage under the splint ; five or six strong tapes or cords should be laid across at regular intervals, for the j)ur- pose of binding the splints on the limb \yhen these have been placed in their proper situa-39 FRACTURE. tions. Let a second splint be laid on the inside of the limb, protected by the substitute for a cushion, and a third along the outer and anterior part, in the same manner. Perhaps a fourth may be required along the front, when the limb is large. The outer splint should extend from the top of the great tro- chanter to the point of the external malleolus —the inner from near the fold between the thigh and perineum to the point of the inter- nal malleolus—none of them should descend so low as the sole of the foot, lest they should be liable to catch upon any thing, and by so doing rudely shake the limb. Before binding the strings round the splints, the vacancies between them and the limb, as at the ham, &c. should be filled up, and the prominences of the bones should be protected from undue pressure with tow or any other soft material. Let the tapes be tied firmly, three for the thigh, and two for the leg. Lastly, the single-headed roller is to be applied over all, with a moderate degree of tightness, from the toes to the top of the limb. The patient is now ready to be conveyed, without much pain, and with tolerable safety, to a considerable distance. If the fracture is not a bad one he may be taken in a coach with the broken limb supported on the two seats. The outside jaunting car, so common in Ireland, is a preferable, and a very conve- nient vehicle on such an occasion as this. With the fractured limb laid along on the inner part of one of the seats, and the foot of the other on the foot-board, supporting him- self, while he grasps the rail firmly before and^ behind him, prepared to soften or obviate the shock of the jolting of the car, the patient may travel a good way in this manner, with great ease to himself, and safety to the fracture. A chaise, with one door open to allow the foot to project, may serve, but is much less adapted to our purpose than the coach or car. If the fracture be a very bad one, the patient should be carried bv men on a litter contrived by the surgeon for the occasion. A door, or any similarly shaped board, will answer, with two poles securely nailed across and underneath it, one a little below the top, and the other a little above the bottom, of the door ; or the poles may, in the same way, be secured along each side of the board. In this way two men can carry the litter like a sedan-chair, where- as four would be necessary according to the former plan. In either case the poles should extend two or three feet beyond the board, that it may not strike against those who carry it. If nothing of this kind is to be had, a litter may be constructed in the fol- lowing manner. Let four poles, two, seven, or eight, and two, ten, or twelve feet long, be procured, if riot in the house, from the next wood. Let the upper and lower edges of two stroiig sheets be sewed well together wi h pack-thread, and let the two longer rated, till the sheets, the side of one of which is to be in contact with that of the other, are tensely stretched by the poles. Let them be fixed in that position, by passing the shorter poles under them, immediately above and below the sheets, and nailing or tying them all firmly together at the four points where they cross each other. Lastly, cut- ting one or other pair of poles near to the sheets, we have a litter requiring two or four men to carry it, according as w'e cut short the poles. Either may be necessary, accord- ing to the weight of the patient. The two- porter litter is always to be preferred where there is a choice. It can be carried through doorw'ays, and the smaller the number of per- sons employed at the same time in the trans- port, the less is the risk of want of concert in their movements. A thin hair mattress, or one or two blankets, and a bolster, being laid on a litter, it is now fit to receive the patient. Fig. 26. Figs. A and 13 represent the litter, and one of the splints described above. If the poles ef g h, bo cut near the points where tlmg cross the long poles, the litter will require onlg two men to carry it. If' a c and b d be cut in the same maimer, it luill require four. It will be well for the surgeon to super- intend the whole transport, and direct the movements of the men who carry the patient, and who should keep the step like chair-men’ D 2FRACTURE. 40 A couple of pillows, hollowed in the middle, by forcing the feathers to each end, to receive the limb, and placed across under it, would serve to prevent lateral motion. From what has been said respecting the mode of conveying the patient, in the case I have chosen, the reader may easily imagine the steps proper to be taken in cases requiring less care. There is no case in which it is not of importance in the carriage to prevent, as much as possible, the irritation or laceration of the soft parts by the fragments of the bone. In the great majority of cases the surgeon does not see the patient till he is in bed, and then the first business of the surgeon, after having ascertained the existence of the frac- ture, is, to move him to a sofa, or other fit place, till the bed is properly prepared for his reception. Of course, the precautions already described will be taken in moving him from and to his bed. It is of some consequence for the success of the treatment, in fractures of the lower extremity, that the bed should be of a particular construction. In private practice we must generally take the bed such as we find it. In a hospital we should choose a narrow bed, not more than a yard across, and with a foot-board not higher than the bedding, that the assistants may be able to reach the fractured limb readily and conveniently from the further side of the bed, and from the bottom of it. The bed should be provided with a firm hair- mattress, for the immediate support of the patient. A feather-bed, underneath the mat- tress, is not inadmissible, but objectionable. It renders the support of the patient less firm, and makes the mattress liable to lose its hori- zontal position. If the surgeon have his fracture apparatus within easy reach, it will be best not to move the patient to the bed again till every preparation for reducing the fracture, and securing the fragments, has been completed. We shall suppose this done, and the patient laid in bed. The indications that present themselves in the general treatment of a fracture are, to reduce the fracture, to maintain the reduc- tion by mechanical means, and to prevent or obviate undue inflammation, and the other evils likely to be the consequence of the injury. The surgeon has now to fulfil the two former indications. In treating the subject of the reduction of fractures, I shall, for the sake of clearness in description, choose, as before, a fracture of the femur. Whatever of a general nature I shall say with regard to this will ap|)ly, viuta- iis viutandis, to other fractures. Special con- siderations will of course be reserved till we come to the detailed treatment of the individual fractures.- It is not only in frac- tures of the extremities that the reduction is of importance. In those of the head and trunk, as well as of the nose and lower jaw, it is still important to consider what may be required to adjust the displaced parts, as well as to guard adjacent vital or tender parts from injury and inflammation, although often we may have little or nothing to do in the way of systematic reduction. Let the surgeon, during the reduction, have his eye, his ear, and his hand alive, to learn every particular respecting the nature of the fracture that he can ;—its direction, the relative positions of the fragments, the degree of shortening, &c. &c. Such know- ledge will be most useful in the after treat- ment, yet it would be bad practice to make particular examinations, in the hope of gain- ing this information at the expense of pain and aggravated inflammation. The different steps of the reduction con- sist of what are technically called counter- extension, extension, and coaptation, or setting. This is the general method of describing reduction ; and even in the use of the ele- vator to raise a portion of depressed skull, as in the treatment of the majority of fractures, the same plan is carried out. At other times one fragment requires to be firmly fixed, while the other is to be carefully brought in juxta- position with it. To relax muscles is also a primary essential consideration in reference to reduction. In fractures of the larger bones a different person performs each of the several parts of reduction. In those of small bones the sur- geon may perform the whole three himself. In all cases the coaptation belongs to the surgeon. In the case before us, the surgeon is to place himself close at the side of the injured limb. The assistant who is to per- form counter-extension should stand opposite the surgeon, that they may not impede one another, and a little above where the patient’s pelvis is placed. The second assistant may stand on either side of the bed, if it be nar- row, so as to be able to press the palm of his right hand on the calf of the injured limb, immediately below the ham, and the thumb on the front of the tibia, while with the other he grasps the front and lower part of the leg. The order of the steps of the operation, is counter-extension, extension, coaptation. The assistant, whose business it is to make counter-extension, is not actually to draw the part to which he applies his force in a direc- tion opposite to that of the extension, but simply to neutralize the tendency of this force to draw that |)art downwards,by keeping firmly fixed the part that articulates with the upper fragment. Let then the surgeon direct the assistant, to whom this duty has been confided, to fix the pelvis firmly, by grasping it with a thumb on each anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, his fingers over the dorsum of the ilium, and the upper part of the ])alm on the crest of the ilium, the assistant looking towards the j)a- ticiit’s feet. The pelvis is to bo strongly pressed against the mattress. It is a general rule, not to allow the assistants to act till the moment they are required. By neglecting this rule, the assistant, who has to exert con-41 FRACTURE. siderable force in a fatiguing posture, is often wearied, and has liis efficiency thereby im- paired, before his e.xertions are actually called for. • • u Extension is now to be made, either with the leg flexed, at nearly a right-angle upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the trunk, or with the whole limb extended, according as it is designed to place it on the double- inclined plane, or in the extended position ; or, according as strong spasmodic resistance from the muscles of the fractured part of the limb, or other dangers, are more or less threatening. In general it is advisable to pay strict attention to the rule I am exem- plifying, that the extension shall be exer- cised upon the part of the limb that arti- culates with the lower fragment, and the counter-extension on that which articulates with the upper. The principal reason for not applying these forces to the upper and lower portions of the limb, the bone of which is broken, independently of the circumstance, that in many cases one or other of the frag- ments is too short to render this possible, is, that by proceeding in this manner we should, by the compression exercised upon them, irri- tate the muscles attached to the broken bone, and so provoke spasmodic contractions of them, which would add seriously to the difficulty of reduction. In all cases too, in which assist- ants are required for extension and counter- extension, they and the surgeon would be crowded together, so as very much to impede one another. When much force of extension is required in the case we have chosen, and when, consequently, it is to be made with the leg flexed, the assistant will be able to exert considerably greater force if he make the ex- tension with the upper part of the front of the forearm, instead of the hand, placed on the back of the leg immediately below the ham. The extension demands much greater care on the part ofthe assistant than counter-exten- sion. 'I'he surgeon himself should superintend every step of it—its 'direction, its degree, &c. and should employ,forputtingit in practice, the assistant upon whose intelligence he can place most reliance. As the surgeon does not pro- ceed to perform his part of the operation—the coaptation, till the extension has been fully effected, he may in the meantime give his whole attention to this. Let him be pro- vided with a tape divided into inches, and parts of an inch, with which he has taken accurately, on the sound limb, the distance between two prominent points in the bone corresponding to the fractured one, and above and below the seat of fracture, having pre- viously ascertained that there is no ditt'erenco ot length between the bones, occasioned by a former fracture, or any other cause. Ho will thus be able to know with precision, when the extension has restored the natural length ofthe broken bone. The surgeon will direct the extension to be madegradually and steadily ; at first, in the direction ofthe lower fragment, and then in that of the axis of the bone. No greater force of extension will ever be required than one, or, at most, twoassistants can exert. The lacs, and other mechanical means by which violent extension was sometimes ap- plied during the barbarism of surgery, are now universally and justly reprobated. In cases in which the use of such means seem to be justified by the great resistance of the muscles about the fracture, it is unquestion- ably good practice to desist from all attempts at exact reduction, till, by leeching and steep- ing the fractured limb, by general blood- letting, and the use of nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, we have reduced the irri- tation and inflammation, to which the exces- sive resistance of the muscles is owing. The force of the extension within the prescribed bounds, is to be proportioned to the number and power of the muscles that cause the dis- placement and resist the extension, and to the degree in which displacement exists. When the extension has restored the natu- ral length of the bone, or has even gone a little beyond this, coaptation is to be per- formed by the surgeon. This is to be effected by gently forcing the fragments into appo- sition by the pressure of the palms of the hands,and by the fingers and thumbs. In frac- tures with splinters, we must perform the reduction with the utmost gentleness, to avoid forcing the spiculae of bone into the flesh. The force required in performing coaptation is generally proportional to the size of the bone, the number and thickness of the mus- cles, and the degree of displacement in the direction of the diameter of the bone. There are certain fractures produced by muscular contraction, in which it is usually said, that extension and counter-extension are useless, and coaptation alone required. It would be more correct to say, that in these cases extension and counter-extension are to be applied in a direction the reverse of that, in which they are exercised in ordinaiy frac- tures. Thus, in transverse fracture of the patella, the lower fragment being maintained in its natural situation by a sort of counter- extension, the upper fragn e.it is to be drawn down, the use of which is precisely the same as the object for which we apply extension in common fractures,—to counteract the effect of the contraction of the muscles that cause the displacement. In the groat majority of cases the sooner the reduction is effected the better; the muscles are thereby restored merely to that degree of tension which is natural to them ; the irritation of the surrounding soft parts and muscles, from the rough, perhaps sjiicu- culated, broken surfaces of the fragments,— which must continue in a greater or less degree, while the longitudinal displacement is suH'ered to remain,—is thus, as far as ])ossible, removed ; and the fragments being placed in the situation in which they arc to be perma- nently maintained, us soon as nature can summon her forces, she may commence the work of repair. In those cases which occa-FRACTURE. 42 sionally occur, and which have already been adverted to, in which the muscles are in a state of spasm, only to be overcome by force that it would be improper to use,—that might sooner even tear the muscles than overcome their resistance ; and in those cases in which the surgeon does not see the patient till tumefaction, tension, and high inflamma- tion, have occurred, so that the attempt at accurate reduction would he attended with severe suffering to the patient, and the cer- tainty of aggravation of the inflammation ; we must be satisfied to defer the reduction till the urgency of these symptoms has been greatly mitigated by opiates and bloodletting, with other antiphlogistic means. An opinion prevails, that the mode of prac- tising extension and counter-extension, which 1 have recommended, by applying the forces to parts below and above the broken bone, is inconsistent with the manoeuvre which it is often advisable to have recourse to, whereby the muscles that occasion the shortening of the limb are relaxed, in consequence of flexing the different parts of the limb. “ In this country,” says Professor Cooper, “ it is properly inculcated, that one of the first principles to be attended to in the reduc- tion of fractures, is to put the limb in such a position as will relax the most powerful muscles connected with the broken bone ; because these muscles principally impede the reduction, and disturb the ends of the fracture. But, in the French mode of making extension and counter-extension, how can this grand principle be conveniently fulfil- led ? If the extending and counter-extend- ing means are not to be applied to the broken bone itself, but to others which are articulated with it, the limb must of necessity be kept in a straight posture at the time of reducing the fracture ; for were the limb placed in a half- bent state, the extension and counter-exten- sion, as practised by the continental sui’geons, would not be in the same line, and therefore less efficiently and readily accomplished.” From the o])inion expressed in this passage I must entirely dissent. To justify this dissent, I think it sufficient to refer to the description given above of the mode in which extension may be made in fracture of the femur, with the thigh bent on the trunk, and the leg on the thigh, the counter-extending force being aj)plicd to the ])elvis, and the extending to the leg. We might even substitute mecha- nical means for the hands of assistants. We might, without difficulty, draw the uj)per ex- tremity of the flexed leg M'ith jndleys, in the direction of the axis of the lemur, with a force, the only limit to which is the strength of the ligaments of the hip and knee-joints, or rather, of the muscles and other solt parts at the fracture. The same method of reduc- tion may be ])ractiscd with the same facility in any other fracture of the extremities re- quiring it. The use of machinery in aid of the force of the assistants’hands, can iti no case be required or justified ; but if it could. we might apply our extending and counter- extending powers to the ])arts articulating with the lower and upper extremities of the fractured bone, while the limb is flexed, just as efficiently as if it were conqjletely ex- tended ; and I repeat, that the reduction will in many cases be most materially facilitated, by placing the limb in this condition of flexion, before applying the forces by which the reduction is to be effected. There are fractures in which reduction cannot be ac- complished, while the limb is extended, without a force that it would be imprudent or dangerous to employ ; and in which the reduc- tion at once becomes easy, on having recourse to the simple expedient of flexing the joints above and below the fracture, and thereby relaxing the muscles, the spasmodic resistance of which prevented the reduction. The reduction accomplished, we have next to take into consideration the means of main- taining it. This is to be effected by keeping the whole body, the fractured limb, or at least the fractured bone, in a state of rest; by placing the part in a posture favour- able to the maintaining of the reduction ; and by confining the fragments, as reduced, by means of some of the various kinds of apparatus employed for this purpose in different fractures. It is desirable not to confine the patient to bed, when it can be avoided, on account of the injury to the gene- ral health from want of exercise, and other inconveniences in many cases attending a prolonged confinement in the horizontal pos- ture. It is, therefore, chiefly in fractures of the spine, pelvis, and lower extremities, that we confine the patient to bed. Of late years, indeed, means have been devised for treating these last fractures so as to enable the patient to enjoy exercise during their cure, and it cannot be doubted, that this method of treat- ment is, in many cases, attended with import- ant advantages. I shall direct jiarticular at- tention to it when I come to speak of the starched bandage. The semi-flexed position of the limb, so^ often useful in the reduction of fractures of long bones, is in general the best for main- taining it, by relaxing the muscles, the con- tractions of Avhich tend to reproduce the displacement of the fragments. Pott first strongly drew the attention of surgeons to the advantages of the semi-flexed position of the fractured limb ; and since his tinie^ it has been very generally adopted by English surgeons. On the continent, the extended position, in fractures of the lower extremity, was almost universally preferred, till Uu- ])uvtren, not many years since, advocated and adopted Pott’s method, with this diffei- ence, that while Pott iflaced the patient on the side, and the limb on its outer surface, l)u])uvtren jtlaced him siqiinc, with the limb resting on its jtosterior surface. In whatever ))Osture the limb is jflaced, it is of the great- est importance that it should be evenly and uniformly su])ported by the jilauc on which it ^43 FRACTURE. bears. If the limb is better supported at the extremities of the broken bone than at the seat of the fracture, the fragments will sink at this point, and an angular deformity will oceur. If, on the eontrary, the support fails at the extremities of the bone, an opposite defor- mity will take plaee. When, moreover, the plane on whieh the limb rests does not give it an uniform support, the integu- ments at those points on which the limb espe- cially bears, are liable to inflammation, or even gangrene, caused by the pressure, and accompanied with much pain to the patient. This mischief is particularly apt to ensue at the heel, when the limb, in the extended position, lies unevenly supported on its poste- rior surface. The cushion which immediately supports the limb should be nicely adapted to its form, elevated where the limb presents depressions, hollowed where it presents ele- vations. In treating fractures of the lower extremity according to the ordinary method, whether in the straight posture, or on the double inclined plane, every arrangement should be made to avoid, as far as possible, moving the patient or the limb from the posi- tion given by the surgeon. A bed-pan, when required, should be cautiously slipped under the patient by an assistant. On these occa- sions the patient may be enabled to be of much use to himself, if his bed be furnished with a cylindrical piece of wood, about a foot long, that can be conveniently grasped in the hand. This is to be suspended above his chest by a strong cord, fastened at one end to the middle of the piece of wood, and at the other to a cross-bar of the roof of (he bed, or to a hook in the ceiling. Grasping the piece of wood in both hands, and cautiously raising his body, the patient can very much facilitate the introduction of a bed-pan underneath him, or can slightly shift his posture, when he is suffering from the fatigue occasioned by the long continuance of the same position. By such means, only to obtain some occa- sional relief, by partially supporting the weight of the body, without decidedly chang- ing its posture, may be an inexpressible com- fort ; but the sufferer must be warned against, or even prohibited from, a too free or careless use of this contrivance. The apparatus employed for the purpose of maintaining the reduction consists of ban- dages, compresses, cushions, and splints, with tapes to secure them. The bandages employed in the treatment of fractures are the single-headed roller, and the different modifications of the many- tailed bandage. The single-headed roller is used in fractures of the ribs, clavicle, and humerus; occasionally, for securing the sjilints in other fractures ; and in all the fractures treated with the starched bandage. The single-headed roller (see art. Bandagk, figs. 1*25 & 1;I0) is made of a band of calico or fine flannel, abo\it three fingers’ breadth broad, and of a length varying according to the length and circumference of the limb or part to be covered by its turns. It should be applied so as to cover the limb from its lower extremity to the upper part of the broken bone, each turn covering a half or two-thirds of the preceding. Pains should be taken to make the bandage lie smoothly, by often re- versing it at those parts where the diameter of the limb changes quickly. The principal modifications of the many-tailed bandage are, the eighteen-tailed, Pott’s, and Scultetuss. The eighteen-tailed bandage is made in the following manner ;—three pieces of calico, as long as the part of the limb which is broken, and broad enough to surround this part once and a half, are to be placed on one^ another, and stitched together along the middle line of their length, on which the limb lies when the bandage is about to be applied. Each piece is then to be torn into three strips, on each side, to near the middle line Thus eighteen tails are formed. Those of the piece next the limb are to be made some- what shorter, and those of the outer piece somewhat longer than the tails of the middle piece. In the application of this bandage, the middle longitudinal line of the surface of the limb that rests on the bed is to be made to correspond to the line of the stitch of the bandage ; the two middle tails of the inner piece are then to be neatly applied on the limb ; next, the two upper; and lastly, the two lower: the tails of the middle and outer pieces are to be applied successively, in the same manner. In Pott’s many-tailed ban- dage the tails are stitched to a longitudinal strip of calico or linen, so that they form angles with it salient towards the lower ex- tremity of the limb, and so that they are im- bricated on one another from below upwards. For a figure of this bandage, with the excep- tion of the obliquity of the attachment of the tails to the middle piece. See art. Bandage, fig. 131. Pott ^ himself gives a figure of it applied, in his Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations. The obliquity of the tails is advantageous as it facilitates the even appli- cation of the bandage where the diameter of the limb changes quickly. In the applica- tion of the bandage the longitudinal piece is j)laced under the limb, and the tails are to bo applied from below upwards. Each corre- sponding pair of tails should be of such a length as to be capable of surrounding once and a half the part of the limb, on which they arc to lie. Scultctus’s modification ofthemany- tailed bandage is, in my o])inion, decidedly ])re- fcrable to any of the others. It is ol admi- rable simplicity, ingenuity, and usefulness, not only in a great number of fractures, but in all cases in which it is occasionally necessary oftcntouncovcrthe limb, and in which also the disturbance of it, unavoiilable in removing and rcap|)lying a roller, would bo attended with mischief, and the infliction of pain. This bandage is formed of scj)arate strips of calico, ' Pott’s Cliinirgical Works, vol. i. p. 411. bond. 1711.').44 FRACTURE. or other material, about three fingers’breadth each, and varying in length so as to equal one and a half the circumference of the limb where the strip is applied. In preparing tlie bandage, the separate pieces are to be laid at right angles across a cushion supported by a splint, or the double inclined plane, begin- ning above. The second strip is to cover a half or two-thirds of the first; the third as much of the second; and so on. The lowest strip is thus the last placed in making the bandage, and when the limb is laid on it, this strip being uppermost, is first applied. Re- moving the stitches and longitudinal band in fig. 131, art. Bandage, this figure will repre- sent Scultetus’s bandage. This bandage pos- sesses all the advantages of the other forms of the many-tailed bandage, with this most important additional one, that any one or more pieces of the bandage may be removed, when soiled with discharge, or otherwise ren- dered unfit for use, and replaced with new ones, without in the slightest degree disturb- ing the limb. To effect this, the new pieces are to be pinned to the old, the pins lying according to the length of the strips, with their heads turned towards, and their points from, the limb. The surgeon then draws out the soiled strip, while an assistant holds the new one gently tense, at the same time pre- venting the displacement of the neighbouring jjieces, by laying one hand across them ; and thus enables the surgeon to conduct the latter precisely into the place of the former, that is, so that it shall lie under the strip immediately below, and upon the one immediately above it. It is often desirable to remove, in this manner, one or more pieces of the bandage, even in cases in which there is no wound or opened abscess to soil them, because the pieces that correspond to the ankle, knee, and groin, are apt to become creased and corded, so that they cannot be neatly and smoothly applied on the limb. By applying the pieces on the limb, where its form renders this necessary, with a certain degree of ob- liquity, the advantage above alluded to, as belonging to Pott’s modification of the ban- dage, may be attained. it follows, from the manner in which the bandage is formed, that the application is to be made from below u]>wards. Each strip is to be applied in the following manner :—An assistant holds one end of it against the sur- geon, who then applies the other on the limb, either transversely, or with more or less obli- quity, according to circumstances, and insi- nuates the extremity of it smoothly under the limb, so as to give it a hold on the jtart. If the sfrij) is not long enough to admit of this, it is too short, and if it is so long that the whole extremity of it cannot be evenly insinu- ated under the limb, a little should bo cut off each end with scissors. The surgeon next takes the tail previously held by the assistant, and ap|)lies it to the limb in the same mannei, and so proceeds till the bandage is exhausted. Any dressings or compresses required at the seat of the fracture, are to be applied before the bandage. The compresses, varying in length, breadth, and thickness, according to circumstances, are to be formed of soft linen or lint. In the early part of the treatment, while there is reason to apprehend the super- vention of considerable inflammation, the compresses should be applied wet with water, an evaporating lotion, or with vegeto-mineral water. In the same circumstances the ban- dage also, in the neighbourhood of the frac- ture, should be similarly moistened. The cushions and splints, which form the next part of the apparatus, vary much in size, length, &c., according to the bone fractured The cushions are stuffed with curled hair, wool, or oat-chaff, and are usually of an oblong shape. For the treatment of fractures the surgeon should be provided with a variety of them, of different lengths, breadths, and thick- nesses, adapted for various fractures. Their use is to enable the surgeon to bind the splints on the limb with sufficient tightness, without risk of injuring it by the pressure of the hard material of which the splint is composed, at the points where the bones approach the sur- face. The curled hair cushion is the best, on account of its combining firmness and elas- ticity. The chaff cushion, which is still in use on the continent, has gone out of fashion here ; yet it possesses one considerable ad- vantage that does not belong to either of the others. When the cushion is not stuffed too full, the chaff can be accumulated at pleasure at different parts of the cushion, so as to adapt its thickness at those parts to the vary- ing circumstances of individual cases. In using the wool or hair-cushion, to attain the same end, w'e are obliged to have recourse to compresses of linen or lint, or pledgets of carded flax, where the inequalities of the limb render them necessary to secure the uniform pressure of the splint on the part over which it is applied. Splints are very various, according to the cases they are intended for, in form, size, and the material of which they arc constructed. Figures of those most approved of by modern surgeons, in the treatment of particular frac- tures, will be given when we come to the individual fractures. Wood, formed into thin and light, yet firm, pieces, sometimes present- ing flat surfaces, sometimes variously hol- lowed to adapt them to the shape of the limb, sheet-iron, tinned or japanned, and pasteboard, are the materials of which splints are made. Far the greater number of frac- tures are treated with wooden splints. Those of sheet-iron are seldom used, except in frac- tures of the log. In most of these case.s, two splints, having somewhat the form of the leg and foot, one for the outside, the other for the inside, and extending from a little above the knee to a little below the foot, are in common use. Pasteboard splints are very commonly used in, and rcmarkal)ly well-adapted to the treatment of fractures in very young subjects.FRACTURE. 45 The pasteboard is to be suffered to soak in water till it is so softened, that it can be closely moulded upon the limb. The re- duction of the fracture having been effected, and a single-headed roller applied from the lower extremity of the limb to the upper part of the fractured bone, either separate splints are to be placed round the frac- ture, or, if the form of the part is suffi- ciently cylindrical to admit of it, a single pieee of pasteboard, cut so that when ap- plied it will fit nicely, is to be moulded closely round the fracture ; and in either case the pasteboard is then to be supported by a circular roller firmly applied over it. When the pasteboard dries it forms a firm case, closely fitting the fractured portion of the limb, and capable of very effectually pre- venting the movements of the fragments. In bad fractures this mode of treatment is liable, in some degree, to the objections which I shall by and by urge against the employment of the starched bandage in such cases. The pasteboard splint is ffiso used in a manner similar to that above described, when the fracture is treated with the starched bandage. If splints have been made choice of, and applied as I have described above, it now only remains to tie the tapes by which they are to be secured. Three tapes are usually required for each division of a limb. When the lower extremity is placed ex- tended, with long straight splints, three tapes for the thigh, and two for the leg, are sufficient. When the limb is placed recumbent, the tapes should be laid under the cushion or splint that supports it, ready for use, before the application of the apparatus is begun; in other cases, an assistant must hold the splints, while the surgeon places and ties the tapes in their proper situations. The tapes may be made of narrow strips of linen or calico, or of strong tape. Each tape is doubled, so as to present a loop on one side of the limb, and two tails on the other, one of which the sur- geon passes through the loop, and draws with the degree of force he judges requisite, hold- ing the other at the same time firmly, so as to prevent the yielding of the loop. The assistant now presses a finger on the loop and tail passed through it, to prevent the relaxing of the tape, while the surgeon ties the tails together with a simple and bow knot. In such cases as admit of the application of a circular bandage without disturbance to the fragments, great security may be given to the whole apparatus by now covering it with the turns of a single-headed roller. On all occasions when inllammation and tumefaction of the parts arouml the fracture exist, or may be reasonably anticipated, the utmost care should bo taken not to apjtly the bandages and splints, nor tic the tapes, too tightly. The surgeon should constantly con- sult the feelings ol the patient, and relax the apparatus, if much complaint is made, till the [)rimary inflammatory symptoms have been subdued. By not paying strict atten- tion to this rule in the early part of the treatment, we may aggravate inflammation, provoke spasms, and the formation of abs- cesses, or even occasion gangrene of the limb. The following case came under my care about a year and a half ago :—A country lad, about fourteen years of age, named Peter Doyle, was thrown from horseback on the road. The force of the fall was received on the left hand, and the radius was fractured near the wrist. He was immediately taken to an aj)othecary, who applied a bandage and splints, in such a manner, that the boy suffered great pain during the following night. They were, however, not removed or loosened till gangrene had set in. The accident happened on a Sunday, and the boy presented himself at the Richmond hospital on the following Wednesday morning, at which time he was very dangerously ill. The constitutional dis- turbance was very great. His pulse was 145, and he was delirious at night. The whole left arm was greatly tumefied, and from a little above the fracture to the trunk, tender and tense. The lower part of the fore-arm and hand were livid or chocolate-coloured, and the hand was cold. The back of the hand was tumid from effused fluid. I passed a lancet an inch deep into this part, giving exit to a dark-red serous fluid, but without causing the slightest sensation. The hand was completely mortified. The question of immediate ampu- tation was debated, and decided in the nega- tive, in consequence of the severity of the constitutional disturbance wdth delirium, and the high inflammation of the parts which would be divided in the operation, and the consequent risk of gangrene of the stump, or of phlebitis. It M'as directed that the limb should be leeched, frequently steeped and poulticed, and small frequently repeated doses of calomel, James’s powder, and opium, (the sixth of a grain of the last, and a grain and a half of each of the others,) were ordered. For two or three days the patient’s life was in imminent danger. Coincidently, how- ever, with the commencement of the mercu- rialization of the system an improvement in the symptoms took place. The fever declined, the pulse fell, the delirium disap- pea7'ed, and the tumefaction and tenderness to the touch of the arm diminished. In the meantime the gangrene had extended to within about two inches of the elbow-joint. J'herc, the red line of separation between the dead and living parts was formed, and the case was left to nature till the radius and ulna became completely exj)osed, immediately be- low the living parts. I then sawed through the bones at that point. A small portion of each bone afterwards exfoliated, and the ulcer of the stump slowly closed over what re- mained of them. On examining the morti- fied part, which is preserved in the Museum of the Richmond hos|)ital, it was found that the inferior epijjhysis of the radius hud been rujiturcfl from the shaft of the bone, with very inconsiderable displacement. It canFRACTURE. 46 admit of no doubt, that with skilful manage- ment, this poor lad might have had his limb restored to him in a few w’eeks, as fit for every office as it was before the accident ; and that his having so nearly lost his life, and his loss of a member so necessary to enable him to earn a livelihood, are to be attributed to the barbarous ignorance with which the bandage was applied too tightly at first, and to its not being loosened or removed when the inflammatory tumefaction occasioned it to act as a stricture, and so directly determine the mortification. There are four general methods of treating common fractures in use at the present day, each of which has warm advocates in some of the most celebrated schools of practical sur- gery. These methods are, the treatment with the fractured limb extended in the hori- zontal posture ;—that with the limb semi- flexed, placed, when it is the lower extremity, on the double inclined plane ;—that with the limb encased in the starched bandage and pasteboard splints ; and that with the limb suspended, technically known by the name of hyponarthecia (vno, beneath, and vapBrj^, giant fennel, the stalks of which were used by sur- geons in ancient times for making splints). Of this last method of treatment I can say nothing from my own experience. What I shall say respecting it must therefore be taken on the authority of its inventor and advocates. With regard to the three first, I think it will appear from the account I shall give of them, that we ought not, in practice, to give an ex- clusive preference to any one, inasmuch as cases will often be met with peculiarly adapted to each method of treatment ; at the same time, 1 am decidedly of opinion that a gene- ral preference, over the other two, should be given to the system of treatment with the limb semi-flexed. The .system of treatment with the limb ex- tended is not adopted in fractures of the upper extremitj% except in fractures of the olecranon. Indeed in this case we place the limb in extension for the very same reason as that for which, in other fractures, we prefer semi-flexion ; viz. because we thereby relax the muscle, the contraction of which sepa- rates the fragments. In the lower extremi- ty w'e are sometimes obliged to have recourse to the extended position; because it proves, though this is not generally the case, less fatiguing to the patient than the double-in- clined plane, and because a force of permanent extension may be required to maintain the reduction, which cannot be, so conveniently, or at all, kept up with the limb semi-flexed. The advantages of the straight position in fractures of the femur I admit to be very considerable ; they are so great, that, in these countries, it is often ado])ted, and on the continent decidedly preferred to the semi- flexed. They are these'. When the reduction is maintained with long straight splints, the extent of continuous j)lane on which the limb lies gives it great steadiness, and the reduction can, certainly, be preserved with a less con- stant superintendence on the part of the sur- geon, and less frequent examinations of the limb, tha^n when it lies on the double inclined plane. The two limbs lying side by side ad- mit of more easy comparison with one ano-- ther. Permanent extension can be more rea-- dily kept up, and w'ith greater force, where that is found necessary to preserve the natural length of the limb. It is less necessary, than where the double inclined plane is employed,, to pay strict attention to the condition of the bed where it supports the pelvis. The cases, in which the double-inclined: plane completely triumphs over the straight- position, are those in which the reduction of the fracture can only be effected with diffi- culty, or not at all, without first relaxing the muscles about the fracture by semi-flexing the neighbouring joints. In these cases, while the irritability of the muscles persists, the advan- tages of the double-inclined plane, or serai- flexed position, are inestimable. The atten-- tion of the profession was first directed to the advantages to be derived from the adoption of; this position, in the treatment of fractures by Pott. That excellent surgeon, inculcating his- doctrine with the earnestness of an inventor,, and supporting it by strong reasons, in the. simple, clear, and forcible language by which, all his writings are distinguished, could nott fail to make a deep impression on English sur- geons. Since his time, accordingly, his prin- ciples have been very generally adopted ini these countries. In fractures of the femur it- is not precisely his practice that is to be re- commended, or that is at present followed.. He placed the limb with the thigh flexed on; the trunk, and the leg on the thigh, resting on. its outside, the patient of course lying on the side of the injury. There are serious objec- tions to this practice. The position of the patient on his side, is unstable, and there- fore the fracture is liable to disturbance ; and' the position of the limb almost precludes the possibility of comparing the two limbs by measurement, during the progress of the treat- ment, so as to ascertain that the reduction is- maintained in such a manner as to ensure the consolidation of the fracture without shorten- ing, or other deformity of the limb. In the last place, this method hardly admits of the application of any permanent force of exten-- sion. Happily, it is possible to avail ourselves- of Pott’s jirinciple, and yet avoid the disad-- vantages just enumerated of his practice. Modern surgeons do this by placing the pa-- tient supine, steadily supported on the broad surface of the back, with the limb resting on its posterior surface on the double-inclined plane. In this way w'e can, at pleasure, place the two limbs in the same posture, and com-- pare them ; uncover the outer ]iart of the fractured litub and measure it accurately ; and, if rcciuisite, apply considerable force of permanent extension, in a manner that will be explained when we come to the consider- ation pf fractures of the femur. ^FRACTURE. 4-7 The employment of the starched bandage in the treatment of fractures is a proposal of recent date ; but the principle of this method, which consists in encasing the limb, or its fractured part, in an apparatus that hardens upon it, and forms a sort of solid mould, in which the limb is confined during the whole period of the treatment, has been known, and occasionally put into practice, ever since the time of Galen. He recommends fractures to be dressed with bandages and compresses im- pregnated with pitch, white of egg, &c., with a view to attain this end ; and the principle has been often adopted in more modern times, with more or less difference merely in the means used for carrying it into effect. Baron Lar- rey, who found the method in use in Spain, and who was probably^ struck forcibly by the advantages that must often attend it in mi- litary surgery, endeavoured to bring it into favour in France. His practice, in fractures of the lower extremity, was to place the limb extended on the eighteen-tailed or Scultetus’s bandage, and, having beat up a mixture of cam- phorated spirit, white of egg, and subacetate of lead, numerous thick compresses and the bandage were completely soaked with it ; he then proceeded to surround the limb immediately with the pads, and,in tuim, to sup- port them by the tails of the bandage. Finally, a sort of splint, of rye straw wound round with narrow tape, was secured on all sides external to the bandage. When this apparatus dried, , it formed a case so solid, and closely em- bracing the limb, that it might without dan- ger be moved in the bed ; or, that the patient might even venture to walk with the assistance of crutches, the fractured limb not bearing on the ground. The method of put- ting this principle in practice, introduced not many years since by M. Seutin, and now in extensive use in Belgium and France, is unquestionably the best hitherto devised. This method, that in which the starched ban- dage is employed, has met with much less favour in England. There are, no doubt, many cases to the treatment of which it is particu- larly adapted ; but as a general method of treating fractures, I am persuaded it will not permanently keep the hold it now has on the Continent. In Paris the use of Seutin’s method is almost universal ; and M. Vel- peau is one of its warmest advocates. In one of his clinical lectures he has described his manner of using it in fractures of the leg, and given an able exposition of its advantages. In these fractures, M. Seutin himself, after ymrforming reduction and coa])tntion, places the leg upon Scultetus’s bandage, which he applies, and then lays a long compress to fill up the hollow on the inside and outside of the tendo Achillis. A thick coat of starch, such as washerwomen use, is then laid on the outside of the bandage with a brush. A second Scultetus’s bandage is now applied, and covered with starch in the same manner as the first. I wo long pieces of j)astcboard, cut to fit the leg, and wetted so as to be readily moulded upon it, are next placed, one on the posterior and outer, the other on the posterior and inner part of the limb, from the knee to the foot. The lower end of each splint is in- tended for the sole of the foot, and so formed, that when turned under and moulded upon it, exactly half the sole of its own side is covered and supported by it. A third and sometimes a fourth Scultetus’s bandage is applied over these splints, and liberally covered, as before, with starch. M. Velpeau substitutes a single- headed roller for the many'-tailed bandage. The roller can be more easily applied, and gives firmer support to the limb and splints, than Scultetus’s bandage. In other respects, his method is nearly the same as M. Seutin’s. M. Velpeau directs two assistants, one laying hold of the limb with both hands at the knee, the other, with one hand on the heel and the other grasping the point of the foot, to make extension and counter-extension, and reduce the fracture. If tumefaction exist, he now places circular compresses around the tume- fied part; if it do not, a long graduated com- press is laid along the line of the interosseous space in front, and part of a very long single- headed roller, of the breadth of three fingers, is applied from the toes to the knee, each turn covering about half of the preceding one. An assistant, having covered the anterior part of his hands and fingers with newly prepared starch, smears wdth it the whole outer surface of the first layer of bandage. A second is im- mediately applied from the knee to the toes, two compresses having been previously placed so as to fill up the hollow on either side of the tendo Achillis. Three pasteboard splints, wet- ted and covered with starch, are next applied, one behind, from the top of the calf to the heel, another on the front and inside, and the third on the front and outside of the leg. Another piece of pasteboard, prepared in the same manner as these, and formed so as to fit the sole of the foot, is placed upon it. As soon as all these splints are adapted by the as- sistants, M. Veljieau applies, as before, another layer of the bandage from the toes to the knee, and again, another from the knee to the foot, so as to compress the whole uniformly ; the outer surface of each bandage being coated with starch. Nothing is now to be done but to allow the apparatus to dry. The limb is placed on a pillow, resting immediatclyq till the bandage is qnite dry, on a folded sheet, to prevent the soiling of the bed- clothes. It is easy to imagine, after this de- scription, the modifications which would bo necessary to adapt this mode of bandaging to other fractures. In three or four days the apparatus is (|uito dry and hard, forming a close and firm mould round the limb, which it com- presses and supports with an uniform and moderate force, that causes no imoasiness to the patient. It would be easy, in case of ne- cessity, to expedite the drying of the ban- dages, by ])lacing jars of hot water, healed bricks, or something similar, along eitlier side48 FRACTURE. of the limb. When the apparatus is quite dry, the patient may, with perfect safety, move the leg about in the bed. He may even, after the third or fourth day, quit his bed and move about on crutches, with the injured leg sup- ported, and the foot raised from the ground, by means of a long and broad band, secured at the instep by a figure-of-eight turn of the middle of the bandage round the foot and ankle, and brought up, one end on each side of the neck, to be tied behind it. It is ob- vious that there are many cases, where con- finement to bed for five weeks or two months would be seriously detrimental to the general health, or might cause sloughing of the parts pressed between the bed and the bony pro- minence on which the w'eight of the patient’s body principally bears, in which it is hardly possible to prize the advantages of this method too highly. In such cases, treated according to the ordinary method, the patient will soon lose his appetite, flesh, and strength, his diges- tion and all the other functions will be im- paired, and consequently the process of repair of the fracture will be languidly carried on ; whereas, by adopting M. Seutin’s method, most or all of these evils may be avoided, as well as the risk of sloughing and its attendant mischiefs. In many fractures too, occurring in persons, who, from age, or any other cause, are unmanageable, M. Seutin’s method is pos- sessed of unquestionable and great advantages. In cases adapted to it, occurring in young chil- dren, idiots, or lunatics, we can, by the use of it, render it almost impossible for the patient seriously to injure himself; and often, in cases of patients w’hose occupations are sedentary, it is consistent with their continuing to be em- ployed about their ordinary avocations, a cir- cumstance which will frequently contribute much to the speedier consolidation of the fracture, by its happy effects on the health and spirits of the patient. The advocates of this system of treatment, on the continent, practise it in almost all frac- tures of the clavicle, and of the bones of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg, applying the bandage immediately on the occurrence of the acci- dent, or at least as soon as the case comes un- der the care of the surgeon. When the frac- ture is simple, the manner of proceeding is similar to that of w'hich the details have been given above. When the fracture is accom- panied with a moderate degree of tumefac- tion, still the bandage is to be applied in the same manner ; but if, at the end of five or six days, the surgeon perceive that by the re- moval of the swelling, the bandage no longer forms a closely fitting mould, the apparatus is to be removed, and again applied in the same manner as at first. There is no diffi- culty in removing the bandage. Often, it admits of being unrolled readily without any precautions being taken to facilitate its remo- val. If any difficulty is experienced it cun at once be got rid of by moistening the bandage, when it may be taken off almost as easily as a common roller. Lastly, in cases attended with very great tumefaction and inflammation, the fracture is, in the first instance, to be put up in the ordinary manner, with splints, sin- gle-headed roller, or Scultetus’s bandage, and compresses wet with simple water, campho- rated spirit, or some other evaporating lotion, during the first week or ten days. When the tumefaction has subsided, the starched ban- dage is to be applied as in the former cases. At the end of an able exposition of the ad- vantages of M. Seutin’s method, M. Velpeau draws the following conclusions—1. That the best treatment of fractures, in general, is that by permanent compression :—2, that the best solidifiable material hitherto known, and used for that purpose, is starch, boiled, and of the consistence of a thick pap :—3, that with this compression w'e may dispense with the em- ployment of cushions and splints :—4, that some pieces of pasteboard and a long single- headed roller suffice to form the whole appa- ratus :—5, that this apparatus, on account of its lightness, hardly impedes the movements of the limb :—6, that, in fractures of the leg, this mode of treatment offers immense advantages :—7, that wdth this apparatus the patient may freely change his position in bed, rise, sit, walk about, and take some exercise, at any time after the fifth day :— 8, that in fractures of both bones of the leg, the patient must not be permitted to walk without crutches, or to place the foot of the broken limb on the ground, before the fortieth or the forty-fifth day ;—9, that in cases, of fracture of the tibia or fibula alone, the crutches are no longer indispensable after the twentieth or twenty-fifth day :—10, that in fractures complicated with wound, the patient may be allowed to move the limb about in bed, but not to take exercise in the erect posture : —11, that in cases in which the tumefaction is extreme, it is proper to employ temporary com])ression during a week, before having re- course to the permanent compression by the starched bandage:—12, that this method of treatment is, at once, more simple, more easy to put in practice, more certain, less expensive for the poor, more agreeable for patients of all kinds, and for the surgeon, than any of the other methods which have met with general approval up to the present day. It may be gathered from what I have al- ready said respecting M. Seutin’s method, that I am far from agreeing in the strong com- mendation given to it as a system ot treat- ment generally applicable ; and in this o])inion, I believe, the great majority of British sur- geons, who have practised or seen much of it, entirely concur. Dr. Markham, in his Remarks on the Surgical Practice of Paris, gives the following tioads of a case ot frai.- ture of the upper part of the tibia, treated by M. Blandin with the starched bandage. “ This accident happened to a mason, a man about forty-five years of age, and was caused by the direct impulse of an immense block ot stone falling on his leg. The fracture was of course compound, and situated just above the ,FRACTURE. 49 insertion of the ligament of tlio patella. The parts were but little displaced ; for the first week (and this is the method followed by M. Blandin in the treatment of all fractures) it was merely placed, loosely enveloped, in splints and compresses ; but when the first in- flammation was diminished, it was placed in an extended position, in the immoveable starch apparatus. Soon after this, much pain was felt by the man ; and on the aj)paratus being removed, much swelling was found to exist, and a slough was found over the broken bones. The inflammation then extended down the leg, and abscesses formed in two or three places. These were opened, bnt the sloughing continued, and the patient began to show symptoms of purulent absorption, dry- ness of tongue, black sordes on the teeth, petechiae on the arms, and white vesieles on the epidermis, on the abdomen, chest, and neck, sunken visage, delirium, and muttering, quick pulse, diarrhoea—symptoms which make this disease so remarkably simulate typhus in character. The man lingered several weeks in this state, and did not die until six weeks after the aecident.” The examination of the body, post mortem, proved the existence of phlebitis. The head of the tibia was frae- tured, the fracture extending into the knee- joint, and a great nnmber of small portions of comminuted bone were found lying in it. I have quoted this case as exhibiting an example of the kind of fracture, in which I would give my voice decidedly against the use of the starched bandage. The result of the case no way surprises me; and several similar cases have come to my knowledge, in which the same treatment was followed by various degrees of mischief, greater than necessarily or naturally belonged to the frac- ture ;— high inflammation, and the forma- tion of abscesses, and spreading gangrene of the limb, with the death of the patient;—con- sequences, as I think, fairly attributable to the abuse of the starched bandage, and which might reasonably have been anticipated, as likely to result from it. The cases in which this method is to be condemned are :—those in which the ban- dage might obliterate an interosseous space by its circular pressure, as in the fractures of the fore-arm, or of the fibula, e3i)ccially when this last is broken about two inches above the external malleolus ; and all those in which the fracture is accompanied by any serious complication, likely to give rise to consider- able inflammation and tumefaction of the soft parts. In these latter cases, I am decidedly of opinion that this method cannot, with pru- dence or safety, be employed, till every symp- tom of acute inflammation has been com- pletely subdued. I think it would be a good general rule to follow, not to apply the starched bandage in any case of fracture caused by direct violence. In numerous cases, on the other hand, of fractures of the tibia, femur, and humerus, in which the injury done to the soft parts has been inconsiderable. the method is well deserving of the praises bestowed upon it by its advocates. Lastly, in the cases before alluded to, of fractures in other respects fit for the application of the starched bandage, and in which the patient is, from any cause, unmanageable ; or where the state of his health is such, that long confine- ment to bed would be seriously detrimental to him, or would probably occasion the for- mation of sloughs, or ulcerations over the bony prominences that rest on the bed ; in all these cases this method is assuredly a most important improvement in the manage- ment of fractures. Another method of treatment by irre- moveable apparatus, the principle of which is the same as that of M. Seutin’s method, has been in much favour in Germany, and has been improved, and often adopted by M. Dief- fenbach in Berlin. This method consists in the formation of a plaster of Paris mould around the fractured limb, by which it is of course closely fitted, and confined in the position given to it by the surgeon before forming the mould. The following is the manner of proceeding when this mode of treatment is had recourse to. If the limb be covered with hair it is in the first place to be shaved ; and it is to be smeared with oil, or a mixture of oil and cerate. The reduction and coaptation having been carefully per- formed, and the limb placed in the position judged best by the surgeon, aflat splint, some inches longer and broader than the limb, or the fractured portion of it, is to be insinuated under it; upon this splint two others, one on each side of the limb, are to be placed stand- ing on their edges, and supported by an assistant, at right angles with the former, and at such a distance from the limb as to per- mit the formation of a mould of sufficient thickness and strength. To attain this end, the upper edges of the lateral splints must rise somewhat above the level of the upper surface of the limb ; at the upper and lower end of the splints, tow, or any thing similar, is to be introduced, so as to fill loosely the interval between the limb and the splints. Thus is formed a sort of box or trough, open superiorly, in which the limb lies, and which is to be filled with semi-fluid plaster of Paris. This is made by mixing powdered plaster of Paris, which has been ])assed through a sieve to remove all lumps that the mould may be perfeetly smooth, with water, till the mixture has aequired the consistence of thick cream or syrup, and is such, that if a spoonful of it is poured on a table or a board, it will set or become solid in a minute or two. With a little practice, the surgeon will acquire a tact by which he will bo able to tell very exactly when he has ^iven the ndxturo the proper consistence. The mixture may be prepared in a largo basin with a beak, from which it can be con- veniently poured. A sufficient quantity of it is nowto be poured on cither side ofihe limb to rise to the level of its greatest transverse dia-FRACTURE. 50 meter. The plaster will solidify in a few minutes. While still soft its surface is to be made quite smooth ; hollows of a conical form, with their base towards the limb, are to be scooped out in it; and it is to be smeared, in the manner directed with regard to the limb, with oil. Nothing now remains but to form the upper part of the mould, by pouring in fresh plaster of Paris till the whole limb is covered to a depth sufficient to ensure the requisite degree of strength in the mould. The mould has been formed in two parts with a view to admit of occasional removal of the upper part, for the inspection of the limb, during the progress of the cure. When this is desirable, or even indispensable, as it must sometimes be, the upper part of the mould must be made in a manner somewhat different from that just described. Before pouring in the plaster of which this is to be made, sevei’al strong threads, in number such as the surgeon deems requisite, are to be laid across the limb, glued nicely to the irregulari- ties of its surface by the liniment with which it is covered, then across the lower part of the mould, and over the lateral splints. The plaster is now to be poured on the limb, as directed above ; and when the mould has acquired some solidity, yet is still soft, the two ends of each thread are to be tied, as if for the purpose of forming a knot, and drawn till the part of the mould included is cut through. Thus the superior part of the mould is divided in a number of sections, each of which may be lifted at pleasure, so that the part of the limb under it may be inspected. In fractures with complications, it is obvious that this apparatus may easily be modified, so as to adapt it to the peculiarities of individual cases. If there is a wound in front, to which we wish to have easy access, we make it cor- respond to the middle of one of the sections, by lifting which the wound is exposed. If the wound is on the side or back of the limb, by making the mould with a view to enable ourselves to examine and dress the wound when we please, we can always do so with litfle difficulty. We have simply to provide, that a removable piece, or pieces, of the mould shall correspond to the part of the limb we wish to be able to inspect. I have neither practised this method of treat- ment, nor seen it put in practice ; but from all I have been able to learn of those who have, I do not see that it possesses any ad- vantage over the starched bandage ; while it is incompatible with the patient’s taking exercise during the treatment, which is in- contestably the greatest peculiar advantage belonging to any of the modifications of the irremovable apparatus. I cannot doubt but that this method is very inferior to M. Scutin’s. In those cases in which it possesses an apparent advantage over the latter, by its admitting of the frequent examination of the fracture, I would recommend the rejection of every form of this method, except under peculiar circumstances. These circumstances belong to military surgery in the field. When these exist, what I have said in general termS' respecting the cases fit for the application of the starched bandage, must be qualified; since, without doubt, fractures must often occur in military practice, in which the dangers to be apprehended from the use of the irre- movable apparatus are far more than counter- balanced by those which would inevitably attend the transport of the patient to a dis- tance over rough roads, with the limb unpro-- tected from the effect of shocks, or protected only by the ordinary splints, cushions, and bandages. With regard to cases under such peculiar circumstances, it is not possible to lay down general rules of any practical value. Here, as on many other occasions, the sur-- geon, however well his mind may be stored with wholesome general precepts, must, afterr carefully w'eighing the particular characters of: the individual case, rely upon his own reason, and discretion to guide him to the line of' practice that is, not simply the best, but the best that the actual circumstances of the patient’s position admit of. M. Dieffenbach. does not apply the plaster of Paris apparatus till the inflammation, which must, in a greater- or less degree, supervene upon every fracture, has disappeared ; that is till the eighth or tenth. day after the accident. This treatment may. with safety be adopted in the same description, of case that has been specified as appropriate, for the emplov^ment of the starched bandage. It has been objected to on account of thei heat evolved in the combination of the plaster: of Paris with water, and on account of the< weight of the apparatus. Neither objection!, is valid. The heat of the plaster, when it is- setting, is never so great as to cause pain, and. the weight of the apparatus is not felt by the. patient, being, with the limb itself, supported: by the plane on which the apparatus rests. The method of treating fractures by sus- pension (or hyponarthecia of M. Mayor of Lausanne) was invented in 1812, by M. Sau- ter. Struck by the objections to which the ordinary mode of treating fractures, especially of the lower extremity, is open—as, that the. long continued compression of the bandages and splints causes wasting of the limb, and diminution of power in the muscles, from which the patient does not recover com-.- pletely for a considerable time ; that the long, confinement of the patient is in many cases- attended with serious detriment to his general health, and other evils already adverted to ; that in cases of simple fracture, not demand-' ing frequent examination, and concealed from the surgeon’s eye by the apparatus eni])loyed.l displacement of the fragments and deformity of the limb, to a certain degree, may occui without his knowledge ; while, in complicatcc cases, requiring to be frequently examinee and dressed, the removal and reapplication o the dressings and apparatus, and the main, taining of the limb in its position by assistant! in the interim, cannot be effected without the constant risk, and often the actual occurrence,51 FRACTURE. of a disturbance of the fracture ; M. Sau- ter proposed to himself as a problem to find a method of treatment not liable to these ob- jections, and the result of his meditations on this subject is the treatment by suspension, with the fragments of the broken bone main- tained in their proper relations, and extension effected by means of handkerchiefs, or square pieces of linen or calico, folded in the form of neckcloths, which, when applied, conceal from the surgeon’s view but a small part of the limb. M. Mayor is the principal advocate of this method. According to him, it is appli- cable to all fractures of the extremities ; but it is in fractures of the lower extremity that he especially recommends it, adopting it, in those of the upper, only w'hen there is some serious complication that obliges the patient to remain in bed. M. Sauter’s apparatus con- sists of an oblong board, thick enough to support the weight of the limb without yielding, two or three inches longer than the limb, or the part of it that is broken, and from six to nine inches broad ; of thick cushions stuffed with chaff or hair ; of bands folded as described above, to preserve the reduction ; and of cords, for the purpose of suspending the board or splint. Let us sup- pose that we have a fracture of the leg to treat with this apparatus. We construet a splint long enough to extend from the ham to two or three inches below the heel, and pierced at the four angles with holes for the passage of suspension cords. The ends of two cords, about thrice the length of the splint, are passed through the holes, and so knotted below the splint that they will be too large, when drawn up, to pass through again. It is immaterial whether the ends of each cord are passed through two holes on the same side of the splint, or those of one through the upper, and those of the other through the lower holes. Under the middle of these cords another long one is now to be slipped, the ends of which are to be made fast to a hook Fig. 27. of the bed, the coiling, or a move- able frame contrived for this purpose, in such a manner that the splint shall be suspended in the precise place, and at the height conve- nient for the patient to have his leg placed on it. The leg is now laid on the splint, resting immediately on a cushion, and the surgeon performs reduction and coaptation. Finally, these are maintained, according to the exigen- cies of the case, by two or three handkerchiefs folded cravat-wise. One of these is passed like a figure-of-eight bandage round the ankle and instep, to be tied under the sole of the foot, and fastened to the bottom of the splint, for the purpose of making permanent exten- sion. The two others are passed round the leg at such places that the surgeon may be able by their means to preserve the reduction, and either tied behind the splint, or made fast to it on one or both sides. Screw-nails, the heads of which are formed into rings for the convenience of tying the ends of the bands to them, are fixed at the bottom of the splint, and at the points where they will be needed along the sides. It is easy to adapt this method to the treatment of fractures of the thigh, by using a straight splint the length of the whole limb, or a separate splint for the thigh, united at any angle we please to the leg-splint, and with or without a foot-board. Fig. 28. In either case the lower part of the apparatus is to bo suspended in a manner similar to that just described. M. Mayor forms splints of all kinds, for the purpose of putting M. Sau- ter’s system in practice, made of strono- wire bent into the shape of the outline of the splint. Finer wire^ is then woven across this, so as to tomi a sufficiently firm bed for the sujiport of the cushions and limb. The bands can be made fust to the side wires at any point and to the foot-piece, which can be bent at plea-FRACTURE. 52 sure, so as to form any angle with the leg- l>iece. The suspension cords can also be applied at any part of the apparatus. What- ever obscurity there is in the foregoing de- scription will be removed by a glance at the accompanying figures, taken from the Atlas to M. Mayor’s Nouveau Systeme de Deligation Chirurgicale. Fig. 29. Without denying that M. Sauter’s method is in a great measure free from the objections he urges against the ordinary apparatus, and modes of treatment ; or, that there are cases in which the employment of it would be advantageous; still I do not think it will stand a comparison with any of the other methods described, or that it is at all likely to supersede them in general favour. In a simple fracture of the leg, we may seat the Fig. 30. patient, during the day, in an arm-chair, on castors, with the limb supported according to M. Sauter’s method, on a board suspended by rneans of a frame contrived for the purpose (in the manner represented in fig. 30,) and! in such a case, we may treat the fracture in this way with perfect safety, and thus the patient may enjoy the advantage of moving ai little about his room, and may read or write at a desk. But in all bad cases the insecurity of the fractured limb supported on this appa-- ratus, will, I am persuaded, ever prevent itsi coming into common use, at least in these coun-- tries. I think it right to apprise the reader, that: this opinion is not founded on any experience • I have myself had of evils resulting from the i adoption of this method of treatment, and I am ready willingly to admit, that, in the prac- ■ tice of medicine and surgery, any speculative • opinion, which is contradicted, or even unsup-- ported, by facts, is of very little value. Having thus passed in review these various i methods of maintaining the reduction and co- aptation of fractures, what judgment are we to form respecting their relative merits? With the best consideration I have been able to give the subject, and a good deal of expe- rience in the management of fractures, I have come to the following conclusions. In the great majority of cases the splints and band- ages in common use (with all their advantages of easy adaptation to the varying accidents of the case, and facilities for ascertaining from day to day the condition of the limb, and for dressing wounds, &c.) are to be preferred. In the great majority of cases also, the semiflexed position is to be preferred to the extended, in fractures of the extremities. When we come to consider particular frac- tures, cases will be specified in which it is advisable to extend the limb. In many cases, after all symptoms of acute inflammation have been removed, M. Seutiu’s method may be adopted with safety and advantage, and, in the cases already specified, it is unquestionably an important improvement in this depart- ment of surgery. With regard to the method of treatment with plaster of Paris, so fre- quently adopted in Germany, and that by suspension (M. Mayor’s hyponarthecia), so far as the opinion of one who has not a practical acquaintance with either is worth giving, it is this : that I know of no case in which I would not reject both in favour of one or other of the methods at present in common use in England and France. Having considered the principal methods of preserving the reduction of the fracture, I proceed now to speak of the after-treatment of the case. This must vary, according as the fracture is simple or complicated, and according to the nature and severity of the complication ; the surgeon being constantly on the watch in bad cases, to prevent or remedy the accidents which may occur in such cases. With simple fractures the sur- geon has little to do, after having carefully reduced and secured the broken bone, ex- ^53 FRACTURE. ccpt to ascertain from day to day that the splints and bandages maintain the reduction, and do not cause pain. If the limb has been kept quiet, and the apparatus has not become loosened, the risk should not be incurred of disturbing the fragments, and interrupting the progress of their consolidation, by unnecessa- rily removing the apparatus. In all fractures, it is agood general rule not to disturb the appa- ratus more frequently than the particular cir- cumstances of the case render necessary. On the other hand, the surgeon should carefully inspect the limb from day to day ; and ifhe de- tect any displacement of the fragments, or find the bandages, &c. loose, he should, as gently as possible, remove and reapply them as at first, after having nicely readjusted the fracture, when any deformity exists. In some few cases of simple fracture, where the contusion of the soft parts approaches that which would remove them to the category of fractures complicated with contusion, it will be advisa- ble to apply compresses wet with cold water, or an evaporating lotion, on the fractured part of the limb ; to keep the patient’s bowels open with saline aperients, and to restrict him for some days to low diet. When it is to be feared that a simple fracture may be rendered open by violence or slough- ing, every precaution should be adopted to prevent this occurrence. Cases are often met with in which the wound is not contused to such a degree as to preclude the hope of union by the first intention, attended with the great advantage of the conversion of the compound into a simple fracture. Wherever there is a chance of attaining this most desirable end, the attempt to secure it should be tnade, by cleansing the wound, and placing and care- fully supporting its lips in nice contact. The measure recommended by Sir A. Cooper for this purpose, which consists in preserving the contact of the lips of the wound by a piece of lint, wet in the patient’s blood and allowed to dry on the wound, is found very effectual in practice. The following case came under my care, in the Richmond Surgical Hospital, a few months ago. A healthy young man, named James Cuddy, fell from a scaffold into the street, about the height of twenty feet. When brought into the hospital, immediately after the accident, he was in a state of collapse from the shock of the fall. He was severely bruised over the right hin, but his principal complaint was of the right elbow and fore- arm. The lower extremity of the radius and ulna could be readily moved on one an- other, indicating rupture of the connecting ligaments ; the radius was broken about two inches below its head ; I believe there was also a fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna ; and all^ the ligaments connecting the upper extremity of that bone to the radius and nu- merus being completely torn, it was dislo- cated backwards. A wound nearly three inches long ran from the elbow joint down- wards, parallel to and a little on the outside of the posterior edge of the ulna. The cellu- lar tissue for some distance round the wound was emphysematous. I reduced the disloca- tion and the fracture without the least diffi- culty. The lips of the wound were brought together, and the fore-arm being bent on the arm at a right-angle, they were placed, after being lightly covered with compresses and bandage wet with an evaporating lotion, in a right-angled tin splint hollowed to receive the posterior part of the limb. I anticipated high inflammation and severe constitutional disturbance, neither of which occurred, and the recovery, with, of course, limited motion in the joint at the time of his quitting the hospital, took place, without his having had a single bad symptom. The happy event of this case was in a great degree owing to the fact that the wound did not communicate either with the fracture or the joint. Had this been otherwise, the history of the case would, without doubt, have been very differ- ent. With the exception of the cases just speci- fied, we may, in simple fractures, either at the first, or at any subsequent period of the treat- ment, have recourse to the starched bandage. If the patient be unmanageable, so that we ex- perience difficulty in maintaining the reduc- tion of the fragments with the ordinary appa- ratus, or if there be a probability that his gene- ral health will suffer from the long confine- ment : or if we have reason to fear the occur- rence of excoriation, ulceration, or mortifica- tion of soft parts over the sacrum, heel, or any other prominent part on which the weight of the body or limb bears ; or if the peculiar facilities of the case allow of unusual liberty to the patient, we have good reason to em- ploy, or make trial of the starch apparatus. In open fractures, we meet with every variety of case, from one differing but little from the severer cases of simple frac- ture, to one in which the injury to the bone and soft parts is so great as to leave no rea- sonable probability of preserving the life of the patient, without having recourse to the immediate amputation of the limb. I have already spoken of open or exposed fractures as proceeding from several causes :— from one of the fragments of the bone being driven through the integuments ; from the body that produces the fracture penetrating to the bone ; from the soft parts over the seat of the fracture being so contused that in a few days they slough and expose the bone ; from the formation and opening of abscess at the seat of the fracture ; and from the pres- sure of a fragment, causing the ulceration or sloughing of the integuments stretched over it. When a fracture threatens to bccomo open from the last mentioned cause, this serious aggravation of the case may almost always be prevented, by proper attention, and skill in reducing and maintaining the reduc- tion of the fragments ; sometimes, when the lower extremity of the upper fragment presses upon the integuments so as to threaten their ulceration, a simple change of the position E54 FRACTURE. ot tlie limb, from tlie extended to semiflexcd, will enable us to preserve the coaptation with ease. Sometimes the judicious disposal of compresses behind the lower fragment, so as to raise it to the level of the upper, will effect the same end. Sometimes, we are obliged to have recourse to a greater or less degree of permanent extension. In each par- ticular case w'e must endeavour to ascertain the cause of the deformity, and exercise our ingenuity to counteract it, either by evading it, or by mechanical force directly opposed to it. When a fracture is rendered open by one of the tw'O first causes, in every case in which the severity of the contusion of the soft parts does not preclude the possibility of ])rocuring union by the first intention, we should take the greatest pains, by procuring it, to secure the great advantage of convert- ing the open into a simple fracture. For this purpose, as soon as the fracture is re- duced, and the limb is placed on the appa- ratus by means of which w'e intend to pre- serve the reduction of the fragments, w'e should carefully remove from the wound any clot, or whatever may act as a foreign sub- stance, and bringing its lips into nice apposi- tion, support them so, by drawing them gently together with strips of adhesive plaster, or by adopting Sir A. Cooper’s practice of cover- ing the w'ound, after placing its sides in con- tact, with a pledget of lint wetted in the patient’s blood. When the open fracture has been caused by the upper fragment having been driven through the integuments, the reduction (which here, as on every other occasion, should be performed as soon as possible, except in those cases in which the spasmodic contraction of the muscles w'ould render the application of great force necessary to effect it, or in which the existing tumefaction and infiammation would make the attempts at reduction exceed- ingly painful,) is sometimes rendered difficult by the protruded bone being girt, or strangu- lated,as it were,at therentit has madeforitself in the skin. In this case it is much better, and attended with less pain to the patient, to dilate the wound freely with the knife, so as to admit of the easy return of the fragment to its proper situation, than to persist in making painful and fruitless efforts to replace it through the original wound. Sometimes, especially when the extremitj' of the pro- truded fragment is sharp, narrow, and rag- ged, the fracture being very oblique, we may fail to effect the reduction of it, even after having dilated the wmund, uidcss we cxei t a degree of force for this purpose, which would to a certainty be followed by evil conse- (luenccs. In this event the proper piactice is to savv off the jirotrudcd part of the bone, after having insinuated a thin ])iece ol Icathci or something similar, between it and the skin, to protect it from the saw. The reduction of tlie fracture will then, in almost all cases, be of easy accomplishment. Of fractures which reijuire immediate amputa- tion.—In very bad cases of open fracture, as well as in very bad cases of any of the com- plications of fracture spoken of above, we are called upon occasionally to consider and decide the question of immediate amputation, often one ot the nicest, and one of the gravest, —both as regards the weighty responsibility of the surgeon, and the life and limb of the patient,—to be met with in the practice of our art. It would be easy to describe one case, with respect to which we w'ould at once decide against amputation, and another, so desperate, that we should unhesitatingly de- clare, that immediate amputation alone affords a chance of preserving the life of the patient. It is easy, too, to lay down general precepts with regard to the fractures that demand immediate amputation. Thus, it is univer- sally deemed necessary, when a part of a limb has been carried off by a cannon-shot; when a large joint has been shattered ; when the bone has been severely splintered, and the soft parts extensively mashed, or carried away ; when, in addition to extensive splin- tering of the bone, the muscles are severely contused, and their tendons and aponeuroses torn ; or when a fracture runs into a joint, the ligaments of which have been torn. Before we had learned to rely, as we now do, on anastomosing vessels to maintain the circu- lation in the lower part of a limb, the main ar- tery of which has been ruptured by one of the fragments, or opened in any other manner, this occurrence was looked upon as rendering immediate amputation necessary. The uni- versal practice in such cases at present is, to secure the wounded vessel, and give the patient the chance of retaining his limb. In debating with himself the question of imme- diate amputation, it is, no doubt, very useful and very right, that the practitioner should have these general rules present to his mind ; but he will meet with cases requiring a de- cision, respecting which he will feel that the light of these rules is of little avail. Midway between the extreme instances lately alluded to, there are truly doubtful cases, with regard to which even the practitioner of experience will feel much doubt as to the course, that the true interests of his patient and humanity direct him to pursue. There is but one way in which the practitioner can prepare himself to treat such cases with the approval of his own conscience ; that is, by the close observation of the results of such cases du- ring his pupilage. While engaged in hos- pital attendance, amongst the multifarious accidents he will see treated, cases of this kind will occur. In some, amputation will be performed ; in others, not differing much from these, the surgeon will rely u|)on the resources of nature to preserve at once the life and limb of the ])alicnt ; in others again, the surgeon having given his decision in favour of amputation, the patient will refuse to submit to the operation. Let the student note every particular of the accident, and of the age, constitution, &c. of the patient, andFRACTURE. follow the case with close attention to the end ; with the assurance, that a dozen cases so observed will afford him a steadier light, a more heart-satisfying support for his judg- ment, when he comes to occupy the post of responsibilitj' himself, than he could derive from the most profound study of all the general precepts on the subject that have ever been penned. The following case is one of the kind I allude to. William Byrne, aged 23, a remarkably healthy and muscular countryman, was ad- mitted into the Richmond hospital, on the evening of Nov. 5, 1839, with an open frac- ture of the right femur. The accident had happened early in the morning, and he had been conveyed to Dublin, a distance of nearly twenty miles, on a cart, with the limb pro- tected, in some degree, with splints put on by a surgeon who had seen him immediately after the accident. The fracture had been caused by the patient’s thigh being caught between the spokes of the horizontal wheel of a threshing machine in full motion, while his foot was confined between two upright posts united above and below, that formed the axle of the machine. At the time of his admission into hospital he was suffering severe pain, his pulse was 68, his complexion was pretty good, but his feet were cold. On re- moving the splints and dressing, the whole thigh was found greatly swelled ; a transverse wound, with surprisingly little raggedness or contusion, occupied more than half the cir- cumference of the limb, at about three inches above the patella ; which extensive rent had been produced by the violent protrusion of the upper fragment of the femur. The fin- ger discovered a fracture, without splinters, a little higher than the superficial laceration; and, on examining the wound below, it was found that the capsule of the knee-joint was torn in two places. On the outside of the patella two fingers could be passed, between the inferior fragment and muscles, into the joint, which contained blood and air; and on the inside of fhe patella there was a rent in the synovial capsule capable of admitting one finger. But little blood had been lost. The anterior and posterior tibial arteries could be felt at the instep and heel, and the leg retained its sensi- bility. In consultation with my colleagues in the hospital, Mr. Carmichael, Dr. Hutton, Dr. O’Beirne, and Mr. Adams, immediate amputation was decided upon, and per- formed. Some circumstances worthy of note occurred during the operation. When I first divided the fascia lata, the subjacent muscle burst through the opening like a hernia ; a very large quantity of venous blood, with which the muscles were gorged, fell when they were divided ; and it was with difficulty that the great mass they formed could be drawn up by the retractor, so as to enable me to saw the bone at a point sufficiently high. Two arteries only required ligature. For a fortnight after the operation the condition of the patient was very precarious. Not more than a third of the wound healed by the first intention, and the rest, for ton or twelve days, furnished a copious discharge of foetid matter mixed with blood. The fortitude and resigna- tion under his severe misfortune, which he had hitherto exhibited in aremarkable degree, now forsook him, and he became peevish. The con- stitutional disturbance and fever were consi- derable, and for the first three or four days he was greatly distressed by a sense of precor- dial anxiety. He got hardly any rest without opiates, and the stump became so tender, that the dressing of it, conducted with the utmost gentleness, caused him severe suffering. He lost flesh rapidly, and became very weak. At first he had frequent startings of the stump, and on two or three occasions, in the first week, he had retention of urine. On the thirteenth day one of the ligatures came away, and about the same time he began steadily to amend. One abscess only of inconsiderable size formed, which opened into the wound, and was obliterated with little difficulty, by the pressure of a compress placed over it under the bandage. From this time he had a slow but steady recovery, and on Feb. 11, 1840, he was discharged cured, having com- pletely regained his strength, flesh, and spi- rits, and being in the enjoyment of excellent general health. We cannot assert that if this young man had refused to submit to am- putation, he would certainly have forfeited his life ; but the history of the case after amputation, and the danger he was in, under circumstances so much more favourable to recovery than would have attended his re- fusal to undergo the operation, leave no doubt that his recovery in that case could hardly have taken place but by some rare hair- breadth escape, through severe and prolonged sufferings, with a damaged constitution, and the loss of the knee-joint. When a fracture has been the result of gun- shot violence, it is a generally admitted prin- ciple, that immediate amputation is necessary, though the injury be apparently less than that which justifies this extreme measure in a frac- ture from another cause. This rule of military surgery used to be spoken of, by practitioners in civil life, as erwe/—a word which, employed on such an occasion by the public, ignorant and prejudiced with respect to our motives, may be excused ; but which,in the mouth, or from the pen of a surgeon, is libellous of his profession, and absurd. An individual surgeon may be heartless and cruel ; but who ever heard or dreamt of a rule of practice in surgery, adopted by any part of the ])rofession, being established on any other ground than this,—that itaffbrded the best means of jirescrving the life or limb of the patient, or that it substituted less for greater suffering, or in some other way secu- red his real interests ? In short, the rule is always based u])on a true and enlightened benevolence. It may be ill-founded in sci- ence ; cruel it cannot be. The rule of mili- tary surgery alluded to, formed by men of the E 256 FRACTURE. highest surgical skill, and established by the most extensive experience, received complete confirmation w'hen the civil hospitals of Paris were crowded with gun-shot fractures in 1830, and 1832. By immediate amputation, 1 must be under- stood to mean amputation performed at any time after the patient rallies from the first shock of the injury, and before symptoms of inflammation have set in. M. Vidal (de Cas- sis) mentions two cases in his “ Traite de Pathologie Externe et de Medecine Opera- toire in which he amputated the thigh, while the patients were without movement, in a state of insensibilit}’^. M. Velpeau, who w'as consulted respecting one of the cases, gave his advice against operating under the existing circumstances. Both cases, how- ever, had a rapid recovery. Notwithstanding, I think, the practice is clearly to be con- demned. Immediate amputation is sometimes contra- indicated by the extreme severity of the com- plications of the fracture, which leaves no rea- sonable ground to expect the recovery of the patient with, or without, amputation. M. Du- puytren relates two cases ", in which he ab- stained from operating on this account. In one, the patient, a lad of 17, had fallen from a great height on his feet, nothing having broken his fall. In the left leg the heel was dreadfully contused, and the bones of the tarsus crushed. The tibia and fibula were torn asunder at their inferior articulation, the extremity of the tibia was crushed, and the leg broken in its upper third. On the right side the os calcis was crushed, but this was not known till after death, and the leg was fractured at about its middle : the upper fragment of the tibia had been driven through the integuments; and its protruded extremity was stripped of its periosteum, oblique and sharp. M. Dupuytren did not judge it right to bleed the patient, owing to his extreme weakness, till the day after the accident. In the course of that day he died. M. Dupuy- tren makes the following remarks on this case. “ This case is certainly one of the most severe to be found recorded. How- ever, it is not without example that patients have escaped who have sustained injuries as great as these ; if the lesions described had existed on one side only, immediate amputa- tion would have been urgently called for. But in this case, why did we not resort to it ? For this reason ; because the situation of the patient was so hopeless, so complicated, that it could not be simplified by an operation ; it would have been an operation completely thrown away, and, consequently, it was con- tra-indicated. In vain will it be objected that military surgeons have frcciuently amjm- tated both legs when fractured^ by cannon- shot, and have thus saved many lives. There is no parallelism between these cases, and * Tom. V. p. 349. “ Vide Leejons Oralcs, t. iv, p. 24.'>, &c. that of which we have just given the particu- lars: in our patient, besides the severe inju- ries of the lower extremities, it is necessary to take into account the general state of the patient occasioned by the violent concussion resulting troin the fall from so great a height, and transmitted from below upwards to the organs of the great cavities, and especially to the brain.” In the second case, a sindlar accident occasioned a wound, laying the fron- tal bone bare extensively, and a fracture of the base of the orbit; a fracture of the right thigh, with protrusion of the, fragments, and contusion of the knee ; dislocation of the left tibia and fibula behind the condyles of the femur, and comminuted fracture of the patella i of the same side, with three or four wounds • penetrating into the knee-joint, which wast found full of blood and air. The patient was- delirious at the time of his admission into the ■ hospital. M. Dupuytren, from the same ■ motives that governed his conduct in abstain-- ing from amputation in the former case, de-- dined to operate in this. The same great authority points out the ■ atmospheric constitution as sometimes contra-- indicating operations. In large civil hospi- tals, and in military hospitals encumbered with the wounded, at times, hospital gangrene, erysipelas, or phlebitis, prevails, as it were,, epidemically. During the prevalence of the* atmospheric constitution, whatever it may be,, that gives rise to this state of things, imme-- diate amputation would almost certainly be* followed by the death of the patient, and should, therefore, not be performed.. This contra-indication will very rarely be* met with, except in hospitals crowded withi sick. In all cases that raise the question of' immediate amputation, we must take into careful consideration, the age, vigour of con-- stitution, &c. of the patient. In cases of: extreme severity, when the patient is young: and robust, we may venture on amputation, in the hope that the vigour of his vital powers- will carry him in safety through dangers that; would be inevitably fatal to a patient in advanced years, or of enfeebled constitution. On the other hand, in those cases in which iti is doubtful whether the complications of the fracture are suflSciently severe to demand immediate amputation, the youth and vigour of the patient will encourage us to run the risk of preserving his limb. In cither of these cases, if the patient is old, or of broken con- stitution, our practice will, on the contrary,, be influenced exactly in an opposite direc-- tion. Complicated fractures will, of course, rc- ciuire very different treatment according to the nature of the complication. When the fracture is accompanied with the rupture of a large artery or vein, the complication is one of great im|)ortance, and in the former case, one demanding the utmost promptitude and boldness on the part of the surgeon. In the case of a wounded vein, whether the fracture57 FRACTURE. be open, and the blood escape from the wound, or, tlie integuments being intact, infil- tration of the cellular tissue with blood, per- haps to a very great extent, take place, serious mischief seldom results. Bleeding from the arm, and cold topical applications, in the first in- stance, and afterwards the use of any resolvent lotion, will generally succeed in checking the haemorrhage, and in procuring the absorption of the infiltrated blood. The rupture of a large artery complicating the fracture is a far more serious matter. The diagnosis of this acci- dent often presents much difficulty. If there is an external wound, the colour of the blood, whether arterial or venous, and its flow, whe- ther intermittent or continuous, may satisfy us as to the nature of the haemorrhage. But if the wound in the integuments be small, and distant from that of the vessel, these diagno- stic characters will fail us. Of course, the case in which we experience most difficulty is that in which the skin is entire. A tumour, not accounted for by the existing inflamma- tion, forms suddenly at the seat of the frac- ture, perhaps not for several days after the accident. Is this tumour caused by venous effusion, or is it a diffused primitive false aneu- rism ? If the latter, we may expect to meet with all or some of the following characters— absence of pulse in the arteries of the lower part of the limb,—the branches of the wounded vessel; an obscure sense of deep pulsation in the tumour, or, what is more frequently ob- served, merely a thrill ; the progressive in- crease of the tumour, till it has acquired a greater size, and greater tension, than are likely to attend upon venous haemorrhage. This case was foi’merly classed with those demanding immediate amputation ; but this practice has been, by common consent, aban- doned, since we acquired a knowledge of the powers the collateral vessels possess of main- taining the circulation in a limb, the main artery of which has been obliterated. Boyer says in this case, “ we must not hesitate to cut down in the direction of the wounded artery, and tie it above and below the wound.” MM. Dupuytren and Delpech have success- fully practised the placing a ligature on the wounded vessel at some convenient point above the wound in it. It can admit of no doubt that this practice must, in many cases, be attended with the most considerable ad- vantages. Proceeding according to the ordi- nary method, to secure the artery where it is wounded, we in the first place, if there is no external wound, render the fracture open, and then search for the bleeding vessel among parts so disguised by the infiltration of the cellular tissue with blood, that it is difficult or impossible to recognize them for our guid- ance to the artery. By admitting the air, too, we lose the chance of getting rid of the effused blood by absorption, without inflam- mation and suppuration. I need not contrast with this the simplicity anti facility of the method of proceeding of M M. Dupuyf,rcn and Delpech. We must not, however, follow this method indiscriminately. If there exist a large wound, through which we can have easy access to the artery where it is wounded, we would, of course, secure it there. If, again, the quantity of blood effused is enor- mous, so that we cannot expect its absorption, and have reason to fear that the collateral cir- culation, if no means are adopted to diminish the tension, will be so impeded that the lower part of the limb will fall into gangrene ; I would make a free incision in the direction of the artery, remove as much as possible of the coagulated blood, and tie the vessel above and below the rupture. When a large nerve is torn across, a cir- cumstance of which we are made aware by the paralysis and loss of sensibility of the parts supplied by it; if frequent spasmodic startings of the limbs, severe pain, and high inflammation, follow this accident, we must have recourse to bloodletting general and local, evaporating lotions ; or, if more grateful to the feelings of the patient, large warm poultices, with anodyne stupes, and opium, with or without calomel. When the fracture is comminuted, it has almost always been produced by direct vio- lence. In some fractures of the lower end of the radius, and neck of the femur, the bone is found splintered, though the fracture was caused by coiinter-stroEe. In comminuted fracture, there is always considerable and sometimes excessive contusion and laceration of the soft parts, even to an amount demanding immediate amputation. In cases less severe than these, we may confidently anticipate high inflammation and fever, with the proba- ble formation of abscesses at the seat of the fracture, and in the neighbouring soft parts, and the risk of gangrene, partial at the frac- ture, or engaging the whole of the lower part of the limb. Our first business is to con- sider how we are to deal with the splinters. If there is a wound, through which w'e can ascertain, with the finger or probe, that some of the splinters are quite detached, or so nearly so that we cannot hope for their reunion, these, if not removed, will act as foreign bodies, and provoke and keep up tedious and exhausting suppuration. They must, therefore, be taken away with as much gentleness as possible, and with every pre- caution in withdrawing them, to avoid punc- turing any largo vessel or nerve. It may be necessary to dilate the wound freely, to facili- tate the extraction of the s])linters, and it is always better, perhaps even less painful to the jiatient to do so, than to lacerate the soft parts in their forcible remov.al. The incisions also may be of essential benefit afterwards, by giving easy exit to matter. Whatever splin- ters are found to have extensive connexion with the soft ])arts should bo left, merely taking care, in the reduction of the fracture, to place them as nearly as possible in their natural situations. In the,se, and all other cases ill which the soft parts are so injured that we have good reason to expect the super-FRACTURE. 58 vention of severe inflammation and fever, if the patient is not enfeebled by age or dis- ease, and has not lost much blood by the accident, we must employ antiphlogistic treat- ment promptly and actively. As soon as he has coni])letely recovered from the shock of the accident, we should take sixteen or twenty ounces of blood from the arm, thus anticipa- ting the first appearance of inflammatory symptoms. General bloodletting may require to be repeated several times. In repeating it we must be guided by the hardness of the pulse, and the severity of the local symptoms. Leeching the part repeatedly, according to the violence of the local symptoms, and satu- rating the compresses and bandage with eva- porating lotions, are very useful auxiliaries. Constant irrigation of the part with cold water answers very well. In the Richmond hospital, a method of effecting this, which is very simple and found to be very efficacious, is frequently practised in cases of this sort, or in any badly contused and lacerated wounds. A little above the part is placed a wide-mouthed bottle, or other convenient vessel full of water, into which are introduced, wet, a number of thick cotton cords, more or fewer according to the size of the part, and the degree of cold and moisture we wish to maintain. The cords must be long enough to extend from the bottom of the vessel, to the different points of the part to which it is desirable to lead the water. The cords are now stretched from tlie vessel to the part, one end of each reaching to the bottom of the vessel and the other placed on one of the points in question. A slow but continuous stream is thus drawn by capillary attraction from the vessel to the part. The quantity of water supplied may be diminished or increased, by raising or depressing the mouth of the bottle, and the water may be kept cold by ice introduced into it, or we may substitute for it an evaporating lotion. The patient’s bowels must be kept open with saline aperients, and he must be strictly confined, till the fever and inflammation have subsided, to a low diet. The disturbance of the fracture in the operation of aperients is a considerable evil ; but this is slight, com- pared with that which would result, in the aggravation of the general fever and local inflammation, from allowing the bowels to remain confined. Besides, the use of the bed-pan, in the hands of a skilful nurse, is an inconsiderable disturbance. Often, it is not sufficient, when the inflam- matory fever, and tlic tumefaction, pain, and heat, about the fracture, subside, merely to discontinue our antiphlogistic measures. In many cases tlie inflammatory fever ol the early stage is replaced by one ot a licctic cha- racter, and the acute local inflammation by a profiisc and exhausting discharge. This change in the circumstances of tlie case calls for a couqiletc change in our system of treat- ment ; and we arc obliged to have )ecotus() to bark, wine, and <lict of a highly nutritious, and easily digestible character. We must, of course, adopt the tonic plan gradually. The precise point in the progress of the case, when the change of system becomes ad- visable, cannot be fixed by description ; but constant attention to the character of the symptoms will prevent any error of conse- quence, either in the way of deferring the change too long, commencing it too soon, or urging it on too quickly. If abscesses form, we must not allow them to enlarge or burrow ; but, as soon as fluc- tuation is distinct, we must open them where the position of the limb will give a depending opening, and easy escape for the matter, and must place compresses so as to prevent the lodgment of pus, and to favour the approxi- mation of their walls. In the onset of all these cases we may with certainty anticipate a considerable degree of tumefaction at the seat of the fracture ; and in consequence we must be careful not to apply the bandage too tightly at first,—to make allowance for its shrinking on being wet with the cold lotion ; and to examine it often to ascertain that the swelling does not cause it to constrict the part, so as to endanger its falling into gangrene. Not un- frequently, on removing the bandage, symp- toms will be discovered having an alarming; similarity with those of incipient gangrene.. The part will be found extensively ecchy-- mosed, yellow, black, and blue, and phlyc-- taenae, filled with a yellow, turbid, or dark-- coloured serum, may be observed scattered I over it. If, however, the vesicles be opened I without removing the epidermis, the bandage replaced lightly, and the treatment already prescribed persisted in, the case may go on. well, and the fears of the practitioner will be soon relieved. Occasionally, as in the worst cases, mor- tification of the lower part of the limb actually takes place, in consequence of the intensity of the inflammation, and in spite, of the best directed efforts of art. Sharp, Pott, Boyer, and alt the best authorities of former times, laid it down as the rule for practice in these cases, that the efforts of the surgeon should be directed solely towards endeavouring to prevent the spread of the gangrene, till nature had established the line of separation between the mortified and living, parts. “ However,” says Boyer, “ it some- times hap])ens that this dreadful evil (gan- grene occupying the whole thickness of a part of a limb) is arrested by the help of art, and by the powers of nature, and then amputatiom of the limb becomes absolutely indispensable. But we should not have recourse to it till the- gangrene becomes defined, and till an inflam- malory circle has formed, which marks the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts. It has been thought possible to arrest the progress of the gangrene, by per- forming amputation as soon as this terrible evil begins to manifest itself; but experience, a better guide than any reasonings, demon-59 FRACTURE. strates the contrary, and we have seen many cases in which this operation has been fruit- less, because of its having' been done prema- turely before the mortification had been limited. There is but one case in which we ought to perform amputation before the mor- tification has been limited by an inflammatory circle ; that is, when the evil is just about to reach the point beyond which we cannot go farther back for the purpose of making the section of the flesh ; under these circum- stances it is obvious we have no other resource left than prompt amputation, although the success of it must be very uncertain.” I doubt the propriety of the operation in the excepted case. It is not resorted to on account of any assignable chance of life it gives, but merely because of the possibility it affords of escaping a greater danger. Such an operation re- quires, I think, a stronger justification than this. Notwithstanding the weight of authority by which the above-mentioned rule of practice is supported, it is no longer adhered to. It is still, and ever will be, thought applicable to cases of gangrene which proceed from an internal or constitutional cause. But if the gangrene be traumatic ; if it be caused by the crushing of the limb by a cart-wheel, cannon ball, or any thing similar ; by the wound of a great artery; by the excessive inflammation and tension of the injured parts; or by any other purely local cause, as the constriction of a bandage ; in all such cases, the rule now followed is, to operate on the first appearance of the mischief, when we are sure the place we are about to operate on is sound, or, in the case excepted by Boyer, even without this. When the mortification proceeds from a con- stitutional cause, as from hospital gangrene, or Pott’s gangrene, the case is so plainly, and, as regards operation, essentially different from one in which the mortification proceeds from a mechanical cause, and is a local disease, that I think it most surprising that the present practice was not long since established. For if the gangrene be a purely local disease, as it unquestionably occasionally is, when it is pro- duced by any of the just mentioned causes, and we remove that disease by an operation performed on healthy parts; what is there, apart from the inflammatory fever excited by a local cause which the operation removes, and the dangers of the operation itself, no matter on what account performed, to pre- vent the rapid recovery of the patient ? But besides the two cases in which the lino of practice is distinctly marked ; one, in w'hich the gangrene proceeds from a constitutional cause, and we are not to operate ; and the other, where the gangrene arises from a local cause, and we have it in our power to ope- rate on sound parts, and operation is clearly indicated ; cases of a mixed character occur, witli respect to the best way of dealing with which, the surgeon will sometimes experience painful doubt. The case to which I allude is one m which gangrene from any of the abovo- mentioned local causes has attacked the limb, the whole of which has become inflamed and tumid, at the same time that the local mis- chief, by its reaction on the system, has pro- duced fever, and constitutional disturbance, of such intensity and of such a nature, as to give to the inflammation of the limb a pngrenous tendency. The true nature of this case is, I think, this : gangrene from an external cause has given rise to a condition of constitution capable of producing gangrene from an internal cause ; and therefore the probability that the parts w'ounded in the operation would fall into gangrene, or that the division of the inflamed parts would be follow'ed by phlebitis, will, I think, justify the surgeon in declining to ope- rate till the red line marking the separation between the dead and living parts has dis- tinctly formed. The case of Doyle, of which a sketch has been given, was one of this kind; and my practice in that case was governed by the considerations which I have just laid before the reader. When the fracture is very oblique, a compli- cation is apt to occur, viz. a continual tendency to displacement, especially in the direction of the axis of the bone, which is sometimes very troublesome, and difficult to remedy. It is in fractures of the low'er extremity that this com- plication chiefly occurs, and much less fre- quently in those of the leg than of the femur. The powerful muscles around this bone, irri- tated by the pointed extremities of the frag- ments, and meeting with but little resistance from the bone, the fractured surfaces of which, because of their obliquity, readily glide on one another,(perhaps, also,irritable inconsequence of some other accident of the fracture, or of the nervous temperament of the patient,) draw up the lower fragment, two, three, or more inches along the upper, and, if not evaded or counteracted, maintain a permanent short- ening of the limb to that extent. Sometimes disarming the muscles, by semiflexing the limb, enables us to restore the natural length of the limb without difficulty. When we can attain our object by this expedient, it is always to be preferred to permanent exten- sion, and counter-extension. We are, how'- ever, sometimes under the necessity of resort, ing to these. Some degree of mechanical force of extension, and counter-extension, can be exercised in the semiflexed position of the limb ; but if much force is required to effect perfect coaptation, the limb must be extended, and our forces applied respectively to the parts which articulate with the upper and lower fragments. When we come to fractures of the femur, I shall describe the most approved contrivances for effecting per- manent extension, and counter-extension. The necessity of obviating the mischief caused by the contraction of the muscles has been felt by surgeons at all times ; but those of ancient times sought to obviate it by exten- sion alone. The inadequacy of this, n])])lied to the part that articulates with the lower fragment, while the descent of the upper isFRACTURE. GO not prevented by an equivalent counter- extension, has been long since universally recognized ; and now, the one is never put in practice without the other. The following general rules for the application of the extend- ing and counter-extending forces, are laid down by Boyer, with the judgment and prac- tical skill for which the writings of that excel- lent surgeon are remarkable. 1. To avoid compressing the muscles that pass over the place of the fracture, and the elongation of which is necessary to restore to the limb the length it has lost by the gliding of the frag- ments one upon another. 2. To make the extending and counter-extending forces bear on surfaces as extensive as possible. 3. To cause the powers that keep up the permanent extension to act according to the direction of the axis of the broken bone. 4. To apply the permanent extension, as much as possible, in a slow, gradual manner, and so that it shall be performed almost insensibly. 5. Finally, to protect the parts upon which the forces of extension and counter-extension act, and to render uniform the compression exercised by the lacs, and other parts of the bandage, or of the apparatus of which we make use. There are cases in which the irritability of the muscles that cause the shortening of the limb is so great, that in spite of every precau- tion to enable the patient to bear the con- tinued extension, we find ourselves obliged, in consequence of the severity of the pain it occasions, or of the impending excoriation or ulceration of the soft parts on which the forces principally act, to remove the bandages that effect the extension, or at least to dimi- nish the force we employ, so that it is no longer capable of maintaining the natural length of the limb. In all such cases, the best step we can take is, to place the limb in a semiflexed position, and then to apply the force of extension that such a position, and the irritability of the parts will admit of. When the fracture is accompanied by luxation, and this complication has taken place in a hinge-joint, the reduction of the dislocation can generally be accomplished with little difficulty, and should be effected immediately before the reduction of the frac- ture. When the dislocation has occurred in one of the ball and socket joints, the case is of a much more serious nature ; because it is generally impossible to reduce the dislocation, either at the time of the accident or after- wards, and the complete displacement of the luxated fragment renders it very difficult to procure the consolidation of the fracture without deformity. I have remarked already, that if this frsigrncnt be sufficiently long to enable us to make use of any considerable force, we should use every effort to reduce the dislocation immediately. If we fail in our attem))ts to effect this, or if we are deterred by the shortness of the fragment from making any, then we must resort to them, with the frac- ture supportetl by short splints, as soon as the callus has acquired sufficient firmness to resist a force, that will afford a chance of effecting the reduction. In simple dislocations w'hich have been left unreduced for some weeks after their occurrence, and in which the attempt at reduction is so much more likely to be successful than in those complicated with frac- ture, we know the difficulty or impossibility of replacing the dislocated bone. In all frac- tures in the neighbourhood of joints, the liga- ments and other soft parts around them acquire a rigidity, during the confinement of the patient, more especially if the fracture be above the joint, which occasions stiffness of the joint, that sometimes remains for a con- siderable length of time after the cure of the fracture. This circumstance must add to the difficult}’ of reducing dislocations complicated with fracture, which we fail to reduce at the time of the accident. The chance of success, therefore, in cases of this sort, is exceedingly small; but, of course, the attempt should be made in every case, and with every precau- tion that can favour the attainment of our object. When a portion of bone, protruded in an open fracture, has been so stripped of periosteum, and otherwise injured, that it w'ill probably lose its vitality, we should remove it with the saw before performing coaptation. When the patient is much advanced in years, or, from any cause, emaciated and debilitated, the surgeon must be on the w'atch to prevent the occurrence of sloughing, ulceration, or excoriation, over the sacrum, and at the points where the extending and counter-extending bands make pressure. This accident some- times endangers the life of the patient at the very time that the consolidation of the frac- ture is making satisfactory progress ; and it is the more necessary for the surgeon to be watchful, as sloughing may actually occur, in consequence of the insensibility of the patient, with little or no complaint on his part. In all cases of this kind, the surgeon should, therefore, himself examine occasionally the parts liable to this accident ; and if he finds the skin ruffled or red, he should bathe the part with camphorated spirit, protect it with soap-plaister, and take immediate steps to remove or diminish the pressure the part has to bear, which is the cause of the whole mis- chief. For this purpose, we may, in some cases, change the posture of the patient, as from the back to the side. When the case does not admit of this, we introduce under the tender part a circular cushion with an opening in the middle, which is made to cor- respond to that part, so that it no longer bears the pressure of the weight of the body. Air-cushions of the same form are used for this purpose, but their constant leakage makes them inconvenient. In all cases of this kind that admit of the application of the starched bandage, tlie use of it is attended with the greatest benefit. When the patient is too weak to move about or sit up, it enables us to cliange his posture, in bed,at pleasure ; or to lay him on the water-bed, a most ingc-61 FRACTURE. r nious contrivance, which procures such advan- tages and relief to the patient, by the uniform support it gives to the whole surface on which the body bears, in all cases in which, from the sinking of the vital pow'ers, sloughs or ulcera- tions form over the sacrum, great trochan- ters, or other points where bony prominences approach the surface The time occupied by the consolidation of a fracture is influenced by so man)' circum- stances, that it cannot be specified with any tolerable precision. The younger the sub- ject, the smaller the broken bone, the more simple the fracture, and the more vigorous the constitution of the patient, the shorter will the time be. We may expect in general, that in simple fractures of the upper extremity in a healthy adult, the consolidation will take place between the twenty-fifth and forty-fifth days after the fracture, and in those of the same character in the lower extremity, be- tween the fortieth, and sixtieth, or seventieth days. In every case, how'ever, it is necessary, before removing the apparatus, to ascertain by actual examination, that the callus has acquired sufficient solidity to justify this measure. Let the limb be grasped above and below' the seat of the fracture, and let a moderate force be used, as if with the intention of bending or rupturing the callus. If it does not yield sensibly we may regard the consolidation as sufficiently perfect to admit of laying aside the splints, &c., and substituting a simple roller, for the purpose of preventing oedema of the limb. If the fracture is near a joint, more particularly when this is below the frac- ture, the surgeon should begin to give it passive motion, as soon as the callus is solid enough to enable him to do so w'ith safety, for the purpose of preventing, or rather di- minishing, the rigidity of the joint consequent on the fracture. For two or three weeks after the removal of the splints no consider- able effort may be made with the limb. If the fracture has been in the lower extremity, the patient should remain in bed for that length of time, after the removal of the apparatus, and on first beginning to move about, should use crutches, not allowing the weight of the body to bear on the limb, and taking exercise on a level surface, neither so smooth as to be slippery, nor so unequal that he will run con- tinual risk of tripping. He may gradually increase the weiglit he allows to bear on the injured limb. A sort of instinct, which he should pay respect to, will inform him if he is going too far. Treatment of Fractures which have become consolidated with considerable deformity.— We sometimes meet with cases in which fractures have, by some accident or neglect, become consolidated with such deformity as seriously to impair the functions of the limb. Our treatment of such cases will depend on the length of time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the fracture. M. Dnpuytren established, and acted with success on the rule, that within the first sixty days after the fracture, the attempt should be made to re- move the deformity by mechanical force, with splints, compresses, and bandages, so applied as gradually to restore the displaced fragment to its natural relation with the other. This rule is founded upon his observations respecting the formation of callus. It will be recollected that 1 have stated above, that if w'e saw through the callus at the end of the third period of its formation, which extends to the fiftieth or sixtieth day, we find the fragments still moveable on one another; because the definitive callus is not yet formed, or, as I would rather express it, because a real bony union has not yet taken place between the old bone and the callus. We are taught by this valuable fact, that we may hope, up to this time, to correct any deformity that may have been permitted to take place, by mecha- nical force gradually and judiciously applied. M. Dupuytren relates several cases in w’hich this was done with complete success, in his paper on the formation of callus, in the fourth volume of his Lefons Orales de Clinique Chi- rurgicale. In one of these cases his treat- ment dated from the fifty-ninth day after the fracture. As it may be necessary to employ a considerable degree of force,—much greater than W'e use in the ordinary treatment of fractures,—we must carefully attend to the condition of the limb. If the apjDaratus is found to occasion severe pain, or diminution of the heat and sensibility of the lower part of the limb, the bandage is too tightly applied, and should be relaxed without delay. Before first applying the apparatus, and on every occasion of renewing the application of it, till the deformity is remedied, the surgeon should exercise considerable force with his own hands, tending to effect the reduction. Three or four days after the first application, if W'e are not obliged, by some of the just- mentioned accidents, to remove the apparatus sooner, it must be taken off, that the surgeon may ascertain the condition of the limb, and the progress of the cure. The re-application may be made with greater or less force than before, according to the effect already pro- duced. Until the deformity is entirely cor- rected, the removal and renewal of the appli- cation of the apparatus should be repeated every three or tour days. When the appli- cation of the bandage, with such force as to tend continually to correct the deformity, is badly borne, we may (especially when the deformity is a shortening, which it w'ould require very forcible permanent extension to combat in this manner) be satisfied with re- api)lying the bandage so that it shall merely maintain what the surgeon has himself gained on each removal of the aj)i)aratus. When all deformity has been remedied, the treatment dilfcrs in nothing from the ordinary treatment of fractures. It has been often observed, that when an imperfectly consolidated fracture has been by an^ accident reproduced, the second cure occupies much less time than the first ; and it has been thence concluded, that in theFRACTURE. 62 cases under consideration the treatment need not be continued long. M. Dupuytren, how- ever, recommends that, especially in cases in which the deformity had been considerable, the treatment should be continued at least as long as in a case of recent fracture. If more than sixty or seventy days from the time of the fracture have elapsed before the correction of the deformity is undertaken, in the great majority of cases, the formation of the definitive callus will be advanced, and we need not hope to remedy the deformity without the forcible rupturing of the callus ; and in some few cases, in which the deformity is very great, and the usefulness of the mem- ber is greatly impaired, such a proceeding may be justified. It cannot be materially dangerous or mis- chievous to employ as much force with the hands, or simple mechanical means, as may sever the fragments anew', provided all con- siderable contusion and needless laceration be obviated, as well as the danger of produc- ing fracture elsewhere than at the place re- quired ; and in some, at least, of the cases of seriously deformed union, it w'ould seem but an inconsiderable danger to cut down to the new bone, and with the knife, bone scissors, chisel, or saw, or with several of these, to effect a simple separation of the misarranged fragments, without any more than superficial injury to the soft parts around. With regard to the method of producing the fracture of solid callus, it must be diffi- cult, if not impossible, to give positive general rules. The kind of force and direction to be given to it will vary according to the circum- stances of individual cases. Extension is likely to be but rarely, if ever, serviceable, until disunion has been accomplished, or at least commenced. In cases of angular deformity, the part to be pressed on, with the greatest probability of easy success, will be sometimes the salient, and sometimes the receding or hollow part of the reunion. To consider the particular part of the bone broken, with a well established knowledge of the deformities to which each part, when broken, is liable (not forgetting the nature of the primary injury), may greatly assist the judgment in determining the direction which should be given to the efforts for renewing fracture. When the reunion is extensive, as when with much overlapping the fragments arc broadly apposed and massively united, the utility of making trial of simjde violence is very doubtful; yet wc should remember that a certain proportion of cases occur which arc apparently like these, while, in fact, they arc but scantily or partially united by bone, and that a careful attempt by force in one direc- tion may fail, when in another direction it might succeed. We have shown that the periosteum is at one time a cause of abundant ossification, and at another of deficient, or unequal repara- tion. The recollections of these facts may justify the tentative adoption of violence be- fore having recousre to other measures. Pro- bably, too, it will often be well to make vio- lence secondary to the partial division of the callus, as by the saw*. The simjile repetition of the ill united fracture is the first thing to be desired. Surgeons in ancient times recommended, and sometimes adopted a rude method of putting this in practice, which is now' used very rarely except by bone-setters. M. iEs- terlcn has invented a machine by which the rupture of the callus may be effected with much less violence, and therefore with much less risk to the patient. It consists of a strong wooden bar, from the extremities of which two metal stems pass down, each of which terminates in a pad concave below, and to which is attached, by straps, another pad con- cave on its upper surface. These pads, and along with them the whole instrument, are firmly fastened on the limb by tightly buck- ling the straps, in such manner that the seat of the fracture occupies the middle point be- tween the two metal stems. From the part of the bar midway betw'een the two stems, another metal stem, terminated by a pad, passes down, which, when the instrument is applied as directed, w'ill correspond exactly to the callus. With the middle stem is con- nected a winch, by which, in the operation, the pad is brought suddenly and forcibly to bear upon the callus, so as to rupture it. M. .^Esterlen adduces many cases in proof of the safety with which the fracture may be reproduced by means of his invention ; which certainly admits of the application of a greater ■ force, and one that can be much more nicely regulated, than the rude methods of the old surgeons ; who broke the callus by mere force of hand across the knee, or in some similar • way. It is obvious that this method is adapted to those cases chiefly in which the deformity is angular, or rather to cases in which we may, in some degree, anticipate the line which the secondary fracture will assume, and in which the rupture of the callus will enable us to restore the proper form of the limb with little extension. If the principal defor- mity arise from shortening of the limb, the fragments being united side by side, the new fracture will either merely separate the fragments, by passing down the callus alone, divide the shaft singly adjacent to the re- union, or it will rupture, at the same time, each fragment and the intervening callus by a transverse fracture. In the former case, supposing the possibility of overcoming the resistance of the muscles long habituated to their contracted condition, and that we suc- ceed in placing the extremities of the frag- ments in apposition, we may fear the forma- mation of a false joint; because, as is shown in the sections of the femora, in figs. 14, 15, the extremity of each fragment is covered by a layer of compact tissue, and completely cicatrized. With due care to secure close contact of the ends, however, wo need haveFRACTURE. 63 no doubt of the ultimate consolidation. In the last case, supposing, as before, the possi- bility of restoring the natural length of the limb, the fragments will be separated by a considerable interval, in which it is most im- probable that any uniting medium, except a ligamentary one, will be deposited. The division of the callus with the saw, for the purpose of remedying fractures united with deformity, has also been proposed and prac- tised. In any case imperatively calling for an attempt of some kind to remove the deformity, I should much prefer M. .iEsterlen’s method to this, by whieh an injury of the nature of a compound fracture is inflicted. But in all cases of this sort, the surgeon should be reluc- tant to perform any operation that subjeets the patient to considerable risk for the re- moval of a mere inconvenience. There are cases, however, in which the saw is the only means of effecting the resection with sufficient precision, and this would scarcely appear to be a very dangerous ope- ration. If the limb be wasted, the ineisions are both more readily and more safely per- formed ; and it is probable that after the re- straint and suffering to which the first repara- tion has in a manner recently accustomed the sufferer, he will be able to undergo the effects of resection with but slight inconvenience. It does not by any means seem necessary to perform the complete division of the bone by the saw, but rather only to secure the direction of the fracture, which may be com- pleted by a wedge, or chisel and mallet ; and these will leave a more generally healthy surface for repair, and but moderate irregu- larities, which are rather favourable to ossi- fication under circumstances of artificial ex- tension. The following case* will illustrate mueh that is useful concerning the subject in hand. I'he patient. Captain Charlton, aged about thirty- five years, relates the particulars of the pri- mary fracture : “ I was wounded on the 17th of August, 18.35, by a musket-ball, which fractured the tibia of the right leg, whilst employed in capturing a stockade in the province of Assam in the East Indies. There being no medical attendant with the detachment I commanded, I jmoceeded, by water, fo Bishnauth, the head-quarters of my regiment, upwards of two hundred miles from the scene of action. On rny arrival there, the seventh day after the accident had occurred, the wound was dressed, and the limb shortly after ])ut into a fracture-box. On the 4th of November, in consequence of the regiment being ordered on active service, I was left under a native Mahomedan doctor for about five weeks; after which time, the surgeon of the regiment again took charge of me, until the 1st of .January, 18.3G ; on which day I embarked on board a boat for Calcutta, at his recotnmen- * Hcc a rase of division of tlic tibia for the cure of deformity, occasioned by a ^nn-shot wound, by C. A. Key, in the 8tli No. of tlic Guy’s Hospital Reports. Fig. 31. The first drawing represents the appearance of the leg before the operation was performed. The crooked state of the tibia at the seat of fracture, and its obli- quity at the head, where the femur rested on it, are shown. The change of position which the fibula had undergone is also seen, as it was before the tibia was divided. The second drawing shows the state of the limb during the progress of union. The long splints being made to embrace the heel firmly by a toumiquet, a poiverful lever is made to act on the whole limb, by means of a second tounnquet applied to the upper end of the splint. By tightening occasionally the upper tourni- quet, the lower part of the leg teas kept in a line with the upper part. dation, for further advice. My general health suffered very much on my way to the Pre- sidency, during which time I was without medical assistance altogether : and on my ar- rival there, on the 8th of February, I was so unwell, that amputation of the limb was re- commended as the only means of saving my life. I declined submitting to the operation ; and on the 12th of March embarked on board a ship for the Cape of Good Hope ; from whence I returned to Calcufta the latter end of .January 1838; and in March following embarked for England.” “ When ho arrived in England, ho walked with difficulty, supporting himself with two sticks, and carrying the broken limb at a con- siderable distance from the other, in order to bring the leg into a more perpendicular line of bearing. The deformity of the limb was great, to the full extent represented in the drawing. It a|)pearod, from the history of the accident and subsequent treatment, that aFRACTURE. G4 considerable portion of bone having been lost on the inner side of the tibia, the broken ends had united at an angle, in the same manner, and from the same cause as an ulcerated spine acquires an irregular form from loss of sub- stance on the anterior part of the vertebrae. The upper part of the tibia had not only- formed an angle at its point of union with the lower portion of the bone, but also deviated from its natural line in relation to the femur. Its head, with the articulatory surface, had been somewhat forced outwards, so that an appearance of obliquity was given to it when viewed from before. In addition to the great deformity of the tibia, the fibula had under- gone a displacement at its upper extremity. Its head had been forced away from its arti- culation with the tibia, and formed an unna- tural prominence, above the usual position, in reference to the tibia. The bearing of this bone was also altered, as appears in the draw- ing. Not having been broken at the time of the accident, it could not yield and form an angle, as the tibia had at the seat of fracture; but maintaining its natural straight line, it had been compelled to alter its line of bear- ing, in compliance with the angular form of the larger bone. The fibula, therefore, pre- served a line parallel to the lower portion of the tibia. Its lower end, being forcibly acted on by the inward inclination of the foot and lower part of the tibia, had carried the upper part outward, and had caused a dislocation of its head, which had undergone some change of form, and possessed a degree of motion not natural to it in its ordinary position. The shortening of the whole limb occasioned by this alteration in form was such as to cause Captain Charlton to walk on his toes ; the heel being raised an inch and a half, when he stood upright. The soft parts had a healthy aspect; and the cicatrix over the bone had not contracted a firmer union to the perios- teum than is usual with wounds situated di- rectly over bone. “ The limb was useless to him, and obliged him to carry it at some distance from its fel- low in the act of progression. “ Sir Astley Cooper was called upon to give Captain Charlton the benefit of his experience. On Wednesday, the 10th of October, he made, with myself, a careful examination of the limb ; and after hearing the history of the accident, and its consequences, he decided that the limb might be restored to a useful state, and that the deformity might be reme- died. He suggested, as the only means of restoration, that the bones of the log should be divided—doubting whether the division of the tibia alone would be suHicient to set the fibula at liberty—but that the tibia should first be divided ; and, if necessary, the opera- tion should be j)erformed on the fibula. As the muscles were not apparently in fault, this course promised our patient relief : they seemefi to have acted otdy from the tibia having lost its suj)port on its inner side, and consequently to have drawn the foot and the lower half of the leg inwards. Their fibres did not appear to have undergone any per- manent shortening. The proposition was at once embraced by the patient, and carried into effect. The tibia was laid bare on its anterior sur- face by a longitudinal incision, nearly four inches long, M'hich traversed the line of the old wound, and allowed the integuments to be detached on each side ; so that the ante- rior spine and the attachment of the soleus M'ere exposed, just above the site of the old fracture. A strong steel grooved director, slightly curved, such as I use in operating for hernia, but narrow, was then passed along the outer surface of the tibia, detaching the tibi- alis anticus, until it reaclied the unyielding interosseous ligament. By a little firmer pressure, the director pierced it close to the bone. With another similar director, and by the same process, the inner and back surface of the tibia was so far detached from its mus- cles, that the ends of the two directors met behind the bone. “ A curved needle, on which was hooked a chain-saw, was then passed along the groove of the outer director, and from thence to the groove of the inner; and its point being brought to view by a pair of dressing-forceps, the saw was adjusted so as to cut the bone from behind. When the tibia was about half sawn through, the saw—as chain-saws too often do, even when lightly used—locked, and became useless : the section of the bone was therefore completed from before by a small common saw. “ Assoon as the tibia was divided. Sir Astley Cooper, taking the foot in his hand, found the lower part of the leg quite free to move in any direction, and that it was unnecessary to divide the fibula. As soon as the tibia was brought into a straight line, the head of the fibula was restored in some measure to its natural position, and ceased to project in the unseemly manner it had done before the ope- ration. The part where the tibia was divided gaped as soon as the bones were straightened ; and the point of contact between the sawn ends of the tibia was but a small portion of its outer circumference. The muscles had, from length of time, acquired so fixed a state, that some force was required to overcome their resistance : for as soon as the hand was removed from the foot, they immediately car- ried it inwards, to its former position. “ The limb was allowed to rest on pillows, without much restraint ; it being thought ad- visable to allow the wound to pass into a healthy state of granulation, before any at- tempt was made to confine the bones with splints. At the end of about ten days the wound had quietly gone through its several stages, and had healed, with the exception of about an inch in the centre : this part con- tinued more or loss open for some weeks, dis- charging a healthy pns, and giving exit to a few minute portions of exfoliating bone. The innammation that succeeded the o|)crationFRACTURE. 65 was loss tlmn niiglit have been expected ; and the constitutional disturbance was inconsider- able, owing probably to the natural tempera- ment of the patient, and his long previous preparation. The suppuration seemed to be confined to the periosteum and ends of the bone; the surrounding soft parts remaining almost free from pain and tumefaction. “ The object to which it was necessary to pay close attention, during the progress of cicatrization, was to counteract the resistance of the muscles, and to prevent contraction at the cicatrix when union had taken place. “ The limb, throughout the whole treatment, waskeptupon the heel, with the knee straight. At first, two long lateral splints, well padded, were applied, so as to embrace the foot on each side : to these were added afterwards an under splint, to give more effective support and steadiness to the limb. The constant ten- dency to displacement was not effectually pre- vented by common tapes and bandages: as these became slack, the leg assumed its for- mer distorted position ; and thus motion was given to the broken ends of the bone, in ad- justing the line of the limb. To avoid this, which was not practicable by means of straps or bandages, a tourniquet was applied at either end of the splint, as shown in the sketch. The length of lever enabled the upper tourniquet to act with great power on the foot, and to keep it in a straight line with the thigh. The lower one was kept firmly screwed to the heel of the two splints ; thus keeping the foot firmly secured, and giving steadiness to the action of the upper tourniquet. This plan of keeping the tapes of the tourniquets tight prevented motion or displacement in the ends of the bones. It was at one time attempted to substitute the white-of-egg bandage in place of the splints ; but the attempt was un- satisfactory, as displacement of the limb gra- dually took place ; and we were compelled again to have recourse to the method which had answered our purpose so well, with the addition of a long outside pad on the fibula. “ The process of union and of consolidation was necessarily tedious, from the limited points of contact between the sawn ends of the bone and the space which had to be filled up on its inner part. It was not till the be- ginning of January that union could be said to have taken place ; as before that time the limb would slightly yield, when released from the splints. On the 18th of January, the wound having been some time closed, and the bone seeming to be firmly united. Sir Astley Cooper, who had unremittingly watched the progress of the case, made a careful exami- nation of the leg, and pronounced it to be united and firm. The fibula, though deviating but little from its usual appearance, had not become quite firm in its new position ; the ligaments remaining weak, and unable to sus- tain^ it without allowing some slight lateral motion. It was deemed advisable, while the external callus was forming and acquiring firmness,to continue the splints with common bandages and fillets. This precaution was also rendered necessary, by the possibility of the newly-formed cartilage contracting before bone had been deposited in sufficient quantity to give it solidity. The length of the limb ap|)eared little less than its fellow, when they W'ere laid parallel to one another. “ Captain Charlton left town,under the care of Mr. Atkins, on the 24th of January. “ On the 10th of March, Mr. Atkins informed me, by letter, that the long splints had been discontinued, and that the leg maintained as good a position as when he left town. Se- veral small portions of bone had come aw'ay, which had retarded the cicatrization of the wound. In other respects, he was proceeding well.” I am enabled to state that Captain Charl- ton lost all symptoms of necrosis, and walked veiy well, with the use of a slight iron along the outer side of the leg, which was deemed necessary for near a twelvemonth as a pre- cautionary measure, and a means of strength- ening the limb and retaining the fibida in situ. Captain C. has since set out to join his regi- ment in India. OF FEACTURES WHICH REMAIN WITHOUT BONY UNION AT THE ORDINARY PERIOD OF CON- SOLIDATION. The terms pseudarthrosis, false joint, or non-union, serve to express in a general way the absence of ossific union ; but we shall find that the oases require, for the sake of neces- sary distinctions, to be divided into varieties. The accompanying table of recorded cases of non-union after fracture exhibits the chief facts of each case, together with the source whence each is derived. Dr. Norris states, that “ no reference is given which I have not myself examined ; and the collection, so far as the American, English, and French Jour- nals and surgical works arc concerned, will be found tolerably complete. A number of cases might, I doubt not, be added from the German.” Dr. Norris' has furnished rough, but suffi- cient, data for concluding, that scarcely one instance of non-union occurs in every six or seven hundred cases of fracture ; and, indeed, it will rarely happen at the time when we have reason to expect, from the usual course of such cases, a fracture has become united, that on examination, we shall find the parts still quite moveable with respect to one another. ' An chihorntc and systematic essay on the non- union of fractures, lately published hy Dr. .T. W. Norris, of Philadelphia, renders it both easy and ne- cessary to e.\tcnd our remarks on this subject. Tlio essay is highly satisfactory in almost every respect, and we purpose freely to avail ourselves of its pages,— See A merican Journal of the Medical Sciences, .Ian. 7 lfl42. We are indebted to Mr. T. Wilkinson King| for the extension, and illustrations of this subject.66 FRACTURE. « . ■ O.'O O cdtS rC & Q> 5S 09 c . o G *43 o o C/3 " »H fa § '43 <*H CJ o £ § ?-« s ,a bA S . cd o> bo 05 J2 M 'O «> C •S 5 5 a o" a 3 C .3 CO ^ -W gs.g o fa 1“ a> — o. tS §• 2<2 ^ S3 |ii fa CT) E *0 c 0) E <J 0) 0) 0> In h IH G d G u o u M -W U O U V ^ <g.2<a:.2 In In 0> 09 0> (d fa fa fa fa 0) ' 09 <19 O G ^ G G G t; g C9 « o 09 4>> -tN 09 In O c ^ ^ W G^ G :G In C In In In rG cd 19 G 09 O 09 <d fa fa ^ fa fa fa fa 09 09 3 9 . O 09 09 C9 3 3 09 ,09 ,0) ,19 •<■; 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 19 19 09 fafa 09 09 fa fa Cj fa 09 09 19 19 09 09 09 _______ M ^InInInInIn M h«|NlNtNk.MlNlN 3 3 3 3 3 3 3"3 3 33333333 09 09 09 09 09 09 09^ O 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 *-> -1^ fi ^^c3*^*^*^*^-*-**^*^*^0 00-*^’ U 09 09 09 09 09 0)<M,^09t!.09 09 09 U090e90k.|NlN09 .19_19U09190919»3-19»1fl90909a9fl9a909fl9^r5ni9 V‘‘t3**«'^0N«Sc;«S;^ i9<S5'S«3<<S<«c.ol.c;«G,2,5.G<2:(. lNQl(NlNlNlNlNlN-^h«^rGlN»NUlNlNlNlNtN.F«.M.^lN: 19.^D19 09 09 091iGs^(^Qj^^Q;09 091>Dcdededl9 faQfafafafafafaZQfa fa fa fa fa fa fafafafafafafafag 09 09 19 09 In In In In G G G G O 09 09 09 G 00 00 ^ .G CO C cS O O S a E ^ fc* 09 > M •B'B 19 « e 19 £ 5 09 I BS^ nN nn CO — .Sg3 5 s -s a 5.T) 5 ‘I^P 5 H . S BE.. oj fa II a ed w lo C'S C G G CO cfl P5 e« 09 COrGfG c'S’nc’uusa ©"■ooSSoo EbSE^SEE ioOc»dNNCoootf^c^ A C o a CO A •M c CO O 19 ^ , 19 09 ^a o o _ — v?«ncoooociN,-** CO-N ’ ^ <71 Jojoicoai’Oaiai^ 09 I09091919S 09 09 09 |09 09 09 09 S 09 09i£ 05 CO 90 19 19 G 09 09 09 5 “ S ^ § "mo “ ^ NN — 1/5 .S 19 c w CO .G bc cd 3 S E ^ E S J *s t.. JS o o S EEe: W CO CO 09 09 G Oi > o S’ 'G s* 'G ^ >» G 'G 09 19 09 19 *G . ^ G 09 .^2 ^ GO 19 ^ bA bi.N-4 'G M G .2 19 fa 19 'G ^ t: s b cd E a CS G G o i> ^s G 19 G 09 3.2 fa S2 "S ’« 3 ® (»> O E 9n o is b2 m5 ,:= 00 |B 05 ** CO .JS 3^3 09 O O .E-19.& 50 bfl » b E 0. o B 33, ■3.2 .2 X Cd o V to < fa fa-: G G G C - 05 CO 19 o ts i3««S §5^ On va oa cQ CO O O M c/3 «3 fa CO fa HI fa cq fa fa G G - c C “ o c 2 •Bs g C g u -43 C P 05 19 “ G G j3 05 ■ « S rt >-• "o ^ <: fafl G C ^ .2.2^ ,a .G o H >-' •; •43 '43 .2 G G 19 be 2 .3 a 19 19 09 05 P 19 vw p^^Ofafafa G £ 19 ; ■5b2.o SSbIIIs 3 b1.|.S| s-2-2-2 “ §1-2 3 S-5.-5 css oo&E'2o90w'i9t9w«S5.2 0®2.2 225 *[?-gB£fc:i«09'C'C*n^^^lN 09 09 C9 9-'09U19 -*-» a a s a CO CO 10 t-N CO ,G pC *■* G = G O 09 2 S ^ ^^00 0^05 CQ ^ 05 Cd G ' S O : ^ S : 05 .G 2 2 g O G G :faa .. . — -N CJ CO CJ 00 B s g .3 •4-> G o a • ^ ^ CO CO CO 05C0,C5052G.fl J= .a *; 3: .M 3 - CO N- ^ C — b bb ’. 'SCCoCo9^®®G'Wi9i909p;a9»r2SG5^ 2 SSNN^^^fl.^e^Jt5cM2^^c>S05cccr5-05^^eoc^co^cn>ce. CO co2*2 2^2 _ — ^.G CO CO co,^^,U<G W'lSG'S 2 2 ”-1212 sg^gSgEglS 3 S si E a a| © OJ 0> .2 fa fa ffi B g i ? £ 09 19 .- - •3 a a g E .*2 G G 5 G o O 19 “ V V w H B M faW hj fa fa S BB fa fa fa 05 05 2 G G G In M In 09 19 19 S E ^ 3 3 E 3 W 3 a 12 <? , CO >-■ In •2bS§ OQ In In G 3 b _J I9G GG *? 1919 — W 3 33 g=a I i ill I a g s?i i:l s -||||||||| .4,^ '3 00 C90 3 o 3 "g 3 ®o ^ S 5S rrt »-N^>qCO.3CO^p^'3?0'~'C^®^ ^ <J •< <5 •< < O^00(MOMMT|.«500'i-Mo'3'3igg2g““|5'"SSM® ^^C^,NNcr5c^(^^c^eoeoc^^co.3^3CO(^^T^^c^^r#cCOC^ < *< - 19 19 09G1919q19319191919D_OJ9^ 13 % 13'3 Id Id £ 3 £ 1313 3 3 3 5 J5 5 15 .2 .2 13 rt 5 5 19 09 19 1) 19 19 19 cdcdcdcdcdcdcd.--^^ SSSSSSSSSSS o Q .2 (n 05 09 19 rd 'P H G £ -2 S S 5 .3 JS n M . O O rt B O t ;ZBfafaPO S 09 O IS 0) *5 2 3.2 1o E « * ** 2.2 <2 G|W 19GS t^iGiGJ—i—.Go 1>S *' o In O bCbObObcbAcdt^ ^ U CQ # •diE-S XX s > > hHH j ,b .b .b .1 S p3 .G .Ap ^n )U0t>0 J5 pG .c. fafafa'S ij«<M g ,. d "3 d B ^ 09 19 G 09 19 19 O - ^ e E 6 3 3 g * O O P^ O'* 00 -Ct* 90 «0 E E X H X « X K X X issi ifti o b o o o < nn cj cj C N IN *3 , L9 09 pG n t< -«!j <} nB > 5 to t>. O^C 4 Cl C4 C4 r -> K fl !. EEb.’EEEEEE’?a “o 33.SE5B333 -3.3«. oo -ogoooo Cd S S :3 <->-’^->M'->P»'->'->o’7ar .OT'p 43pGo9333GGG2,Gfa - l»19 fafatfcttwwcoww ^ a "S c3<jaciJ8.iada^<ia.i8P^«^^^S GG OGGGGGG'G'G 2a9NgSSl9l949l9^^0NNg^ 2 S - S 5 S S S S ** S *r .*3 G ..... — 09 05 P t <=> NNdeo-^rcogt^WOjp — Vj 2 2;; icowco«Q«oeocoeoco«o^^^^^'FRACTURE G7 £ ? s o 3 rttS a .2 o C c= •si S3 3 V Qi3 2 S 52 « <U .S ►G >, S?3 ° tn O Qi '2 ^ S G :'s> •1^ o 2 CC4 fi H •c ' £ M «3 l-s B oj M §.-g CO O M B B 0^0 S'-iS u .B u •c “•»: fa fa w ^3 C CO g w iH ca ^ .B B ^ £ S ® 2 B B rt .2 CO B B4«-> Sit !§■? hOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 3'B'B'O'O'B'O'O'B'O'B'O'B'B'O'B^ £ o o o o 3 -B 'B 'O £000000 B *B B *0 'B "B 'B "’^■a-S'O-a-S-a'aSS’aS'aSS'SS^-a’a'gS-a-aS^I'g'a'a-aS'oS ' PM fi&< , ._ o -•-> cd >-> u •B 3 o ^ ^ «B < ca B 0) fa fa fa ■* ea o fafa '« Sa fa CO ^ oO 0> 0> eo'oeomcocofoco.^wjpl^ojwww* 04)0oa)ooo»oooooooa> <U4>0JOOOOOfeO>OOO4^O f i: ^ H ^ »-gi: ^ ^ P c o03ES5^4>®^®^54)a)0 B ^ Qi O O O O cio _ BMCotoeocoeoO^"^cooo«—■ — — ca en ca MMM ^ Qi 9i V M o> o o ^ S S “ «o <r<j •E ^ e B Qi 09 A ^ -ti «i s s 00 70 *2^ ^ 09 3 - > 00 .S -«e 5 £ i 1-^ »H 5 c CO ^ Ad o O O o s A C I' .£ S 2 fa ca Cm» ,g ca ca 'C B S,™ O OJ O CO to •<MJ be B ca bo fa eo > 4S ^ -- fa^ ^ *« ca S >► 0» •— WO fa *« CO w « 'o ^ A w fa B 2 . o s o B *S w B '■ 2.2 o 0> 1m CO fa fa •*-»...*j.. zr** 300000000.2 ooowoo £co 3 B B B B B B B B B B B 'B B 2 ^ .ia g bS'^b 2 2 2 B 2 ^2 2 3dddoddddBoodBdd'BO'S'o3*'^3eS_-o 3BBBBBBBB«oBBBmBB2'^2 .“qj^SS . 2 S ajOeoo9ScoS®’2'* 2 2 o*5<u<u2o2<i^'S'^' fa fa fafafiacafaWfaCdcofai ca ^ 0 0} o <i3 j- 'fe m “ s 2^.5 •g »- o ij’® . 0) M 5 CO 3 )fao BwBEt^S“BtnS ■g sssssiss-si fa e» fa X CO O fa fa P3 fa fa -I B sf >s 03 to s ^ ^ 2 O 4) E 5: © 03 to ca CO * ^^5 .B .B C B Si o o > ae^ — — — — — o o a —< ca CO w o Oi V o o & ^ £ — -N 50 * eo 75 w 5 5 g s tJ c I ^ ^ i ® «3 00 ® r^.CO CO s OT GO CO 79 GO t* CO AS 5?.B 2 BCEEijCOBB OOOOBo^O£ S S S S 6^ ^ CO EO .B CO CO ^■“SssSIssI c2c3«|oaaoc 00 He* © —' 00 eo o2o£aoOB' g ^ B >>= E B = : g i>,c g g B g ii’j ^ H^B ^ 00 ^ - — ©_?» — 00 H* — t s s a S a a " o ca V3 2 fa & ca 1 rt t3 .. , 3 3 ^ 2 o 2 ^ ^ ^ 2 3 ? c 5 PuS Pg rV3...B.. S...3 S33H3g3.S.M3 cCooooooagcooo.SoooBoooa^. SgEpadoSo.S a = 3-0-3'3'3'3-0ggj-a-3’a;3a3’0-O3i3’a-agg’S§3S3S'°=’’®5 S 2 M » “ 3 3 3 M 0) H fa aesg'Saj^a 3§3-H5 3^3 a Ca ac s X uj a bo < ouo*3t^oo«^co© 3H*© 3W3© 3 3COoo'3^'3©‘oeo‘^©©l^u3’B©o©^u3 H'co.3«'io^c^u3 0*.Qt^eOfo‘oe^fQ.^ww.Q-^.Q •«}«04'3i-<coo'i^.5c^c'*.^co •< < <; < < < H* <J Hj -aj H’Uo’s's'S^BiOOH*© C'*co.a-^.0'QeOH't>-c^ <<<< V M V . . sias-s «« fa *« ... ^ BooobBoooooooooooooooooo BBBB Oi^BBB OkMBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB fa i>g; fa .eS ° a-3 B 4) *2 •' fa .«S ) d d d £ ^ I B B B 0) L fa J Ef AS • • C M « O O .s.g !?-o a SiH-C uaa oodddddododoooij^odw BBBBBBBBBBbBB . .*3' d o o t®'’ : ? 2 4^ o o « ® o bc *S !? • Brrt £ B SL ^ o ^ tt .2 ^ o B Q fa CO fa fa fa fa a fl ^ s « §s|s 11? ^ tto • fa B H ni 4S .5P B d gsii E 5 2 rt.2 faSfafa ca -2 eo S S .£ O s £5 .B bo S gw O *3 ^ 3 o <DS A U .a ® Ssz; M . „oo ki eo o> CO B 2 a> w 2 o o 2 c £ fa .2 2 — ‘Co ca *4i rt c> o. > ;g «fa 4)W H SfaO . « 3 3 > § -2 b ® ® > 2 w g «-o to 3 2 S3 ^ 2 3 3 dddddddddddddddddd3'®'®grj bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbw M *S ® S ca g'O 2.2.222®5®ooooooooddwdd 8-B _ _ BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB W'O'S ^U_”_^fa3_W55 H ^ iz^ « 3 . dco B.g g^coco 3^*3,^Wo(i®^3facycy B J O B B B cd2*M w222 O 4> S 3 S ^ 2 S S rC SJ ?2 rS ‘S ^ ®® © O C'Feo -r CO © t>« © 09 © f—• eo ^ »o © »■«» 00 © © 'c»'-*»*'^©iOiO©»OWO*OiO©«»©©©©©©©©©SSt^K2?.2SU”SS 00 s . S" s' of E C eo 3 B B 3 S >» »H i- M O OT ca o o o *«> rt to CJ O ti . ^ c/} QJ Ci 0) —a 2«aa S'a-a'a’a^ tc .2 • 0 PC'S B *B ^ f? 2 W 4> 1> . (S 5s^sa w *XI bo 3 ^ s . £3aFRACTURE. G8 W9 ^ 3 5.2 > > — « . o *a 50 ^ I'Sl 9i JS ^3 P. a « '2^5 42 .'2 eo ^ aa 3 ..Tf* C ° s t3 o ^ P •C *2 - •» b b «o CO »s a> oi ti »N C . o eg® 3 . ^ , eo S c a CO «2 «« 2 O V » (U 3 .3 b b cvj CQ '2 “> M ^ rt o s £ 'o *3 h« 5 -«2 cd ec ^ tb., II a o> o> ^ 3 *3 M O CO *c 4> C Lh ^ b 2 s S « rt £ <« 3 « g tn 3 M 3 .«.. s W O « o o « •c " a «-c -c a Cb Oi Ci. Cl CU “.a *: J M ,, *3 OT CO ^ c — ;s 4) ; 3 043 3> § 2 « 3 M O 3 .2 lu L. bt bb CO CO •3 £iJ C 2 « S *3 -4-> 3 CO 5 o) 3 ci §2 « a •a a s s -a c a •2 ,S .2 ® OJ P-O ft. .2 Q ft. 'O *0 '3 *3 "O o 35 'eo'3<3ddo ‘S o'®3 53’0'3'3 b b Ob 2 d d^'33‘r d d d b b b O b b o ^ 3 P if 3 4> o« 3 0> <d '3 § >, XJ 0) 3 rt ^ bi) 60 *3 *5 b bc-^ _ if rt 3" 3 .3 2 4= .3 0^ - J_Olb<§ §2=^ GO 'T *3 W 3 rS “ 3 ^’5 -3 '5 o 3 -3 fl « g|-s| ^ < -5 ” ::: ^ 4) M CO bo 3 2 •° sS ■5 gg ” c ^ O CO —• 2 £ w oe OJ «P 'P'P^cqo3.3cq' ^ s s 50 CO Tt* 55 g g §i°11g ‘yp ^ 3 3S-rt££cSJbco« >-«50 ^ eoo0ttj0^y3b..oo£g IT5 3 '3 .g *3 *3 OJ 4-> U OJ so « * iJ "3 3 3 T* W « 4J g g»2»S g > ^ o "^ © o S CO 00 ^ ^ *25 CO .3 CO 3 o © s > >» 3 T3 O ^ b s >» 3 XJ CO ^ ^15 © o> ^ CO g " 2 2 ^ up 3 b B 3 3 3 >> CO 3 >> »a 3 •3 ^ . > *3 3 i2 > p .2 3 ‘2 C >" 3 3 « 3 3 > bb .3 o X3 6 4> 3 .2 3 3 ttj “ 1 GO 3 3 ^ 3 3 pQ o bo X3 3 3 « CO 60 <g o ° o. "i'o g -SI *3 3 b b 3 >3 b b C5 ^ 0) be'2 c P .2 3 .0 3 b b 3 b o 3 b s < b 3 .Sh 3 .2 n 3 3*^ b <1 (/? Cd 3 « 3 .0 to 3 .c ^ I g c 2 gi! o> o '-5 i. o ij g § '3 .2 o'® - — 3 0 0 "O "3 3 ' »|.s^s.s^ag "■SSSstaouS eg«3ft. ^on.'"BiH ■S rt- CO b 3 cd 3 — - o 3 '3 b 3 J 3 w 3 3 o c> 55 *-* cw ♦-» 3 -3 ^ 3 ^ 3 CQ CC CQ b e/^ c« P 2 o 3 'T3 -V O O 3 -o '3 *3 3 I P 3 2 3 L »-< b b iS o 2 ^ 3 3 O 4> '3 .2 3 ^ 3 *0 CO PS CQ b CO 3 60 .2 'S CO GO .3 p3 CO 3 3 ^ O O 0) ESS: 50 50 OJ ^ S E Iz ~ S ^ OJ -N — E & 50 50 CO 1-2 §E E 2 S CO CO CO 2 «3 JS ^ eo CO eo ,fi w 4-. *ft ^ 3 3 3 tJ O 8 O O O 3 3 u N. «—I -^ — CO 50 eo *3X3 plS CO 0033G0CO09CO CO CO p3 iJ iJ »3 JO »3 J3 S c^-£^ 3 s e I 1 g o “ “ o g o o ^&^SS«SEES ^aoto^^^gpcocoeo 5m 3 ® 3 ** w cd t> ^ 3 CO £ b 6bE 3 E 3 3*'^ 3 tJ b H b SoSogS 3 3 •EcS...cE'3 p .2dEB°°®®°5? sipSfgp- g.'2':^-S3-o-a'a'o-=g HfaMjCLaeP fti p. SM ^ tj) < 50 ^ ^ 50 50 3 «0 pg 3 00 e^ o ,g M. CO CO ITS pM CO irj o 50 CO ^ g— 3C^3* *5003 .g to T3 >0 .5 o .§ c^ ^ T3 < <2 < w£ '3 '3 -O 'O e - g 5 ft- s ^3 ^3 ^3 ^3 ^3 T3 t3 ^3 3 s - 3 3 ft. s 0000000 5-aSi 1 .6® fll I XS'33'3'3'3'3 3J1 3 ft. .a ft. .a u ■a “g S 60 bo Jr: *C V- 2 3 3 3 Sj QO CO p .§ X3 3 • >^ 5 -p ^ cd M O 3 62 3 w ^3 o m 3 <d ,3 3 3 b .M 4) 5d C P S 3 N b 3 b b o 3 3 >» >» O S W P P b *i X p* p g 0*33 Otd^HQ b £ p ^ Cd 3 o >» *» > M '33t#,0oot*0 .op. .3}-!e>*>'£fl CooedboCdcd-go j.SSMAQrRACTUllE. 69 If it be necessary, I would entreat the reader to pursue the study of non-union, as an essential illustration, and corroboration, of all the main doctrines concerning: the course and treatment of fracture. I am the more anxious to urge these views upon his attention, in order that he may be the more forcibly convinced of the truth of the pre- vious statements relating to the repair of bone. The varieties of non-union may be said to be four. 1. In the first place the fragments may be united by a soft callus, which does not very evidently differ from the usual formation, e.xcepting that the new ossification on the surface of either end of the fracture is absent, or in part deficient. This state often appears to be merely one of tardy ossification, since it yields to a careful perseverance in common measures. The cases formerly de- scribed in which motion rather excites abundant ossification and yet retards union, must be so readily cured by rest, as to be in- admissible as instances of false joint, except for this —that circumstances may lead to the arrest of all inflammation, when atro- phy maj' commence be- fore union is secured, and the case is then to be re- ferred to the third class, or perhaps to the fourth, of which we are about to speak. 2. In the second and most common class of A thin section of the humerus illustrating circumstances of tardy and scanty union : a, is a detached frag- ment in which very little alteration has taken place ; the fissure above is still unoccupied by organized mat- ter : 6, c, are partial formaiions of new bone^ and the wide interspace of the fragments between them is filled by a ligamentous union. Here ice see want of contact, want of ossification., and the effect of motion in forming ligament; we cannot imagine however, hut that a little care might have sufficed to cause Itony union, while we must admit that neglect should be expected to peipetuate the ligamentous union. cases, some ossification has roughly closed or nearly closed the medullary openings of the two fragments, as after amputation. Their ends are also rounded and coated with a periosteum ; and between them is extended a ligament, which varies in length, and massiveness, in different instances. The ligamentous band is usually one thick cord, but sometimes it is divided into two or more bands. Its flex- ibility is great, unless when very short. 3. In a third series, reparation is remark- ably delicient, the only bond of union being a cellular tissue, and the principal change in the fragments one of atrophy. As the re- paired stump-bone, so also an isolated broken F Fig. 32.70 FRACTURE. Fig. 33. Fig. 33 represents a strong ligament uniting the head of the femur to its shaft. Fracture of the neck of the bone at a remote period—perhaps in early life— has led to the disappearance., or great shoiiening, of the neck; near to which the solid shell has pene- trated the cancellus, and is in progress of wasting. The white line traversing the section indicates the site of a layer of defined fiJirous tissue. Here we may not suppose that contact was wanting., or that the vas- cular supply was inefficient; but we must infer the absence of the cause which determines ossification as a consequence of inflammation. Fig. 34. end oF bone becomes covered by cellular membrane ; and even when two fractured ex- tremities are nearly opposed, but motion- less or scantily nou- rished, very little more than an union by cel- lular membrane may be met with. On the other hand, a wide space of separation of fragments may be only closed by loose tissues. A trans- verse fracture of the patella neglected, or the loss of a portion of cranium, may be Fig. 34 is copied from Mr. Bransby. B. Cooper's beautiful edition of Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislo- cation and Fractures. There has been a fracture of the radius which is repaired by bone, and (at the same time, probably) a fracture of the ulna, which is only repaired by ligament. The want of contact, the influence of the quadratus, and the disposition of the upper broken end to advance, suffice to explain the want of bony union ; but the appearance of the uj^er section of the ulna evinces that its broken end has been sealed by bone and periosteum as a stump-bone. The specimen here depicted is in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital, together ivith a similar one in a very young siugcct, in which both bones have but liga- mentous union. said to have no kind of solid reunion. 4. A fourth series of cases present a kind of synovial cavity, and a more or less efficient capsular ligament, within which denuded sur- Fig. 35. Fig. 35 is from a well-known specimen presented by Dr. Sims to Sir A. Cooper, and now in the Museum at Guy's Hospital. Open and comminuted fracture of the tibia has here led to the loss of a considerable poHion of the shaft, ^cith subsequent reunion of the fragments. The Jiimla is much thickened, and it ivould seem tluit wherever tension or pi-essure has operated, there is hypertrophy manifested; hut else- where atrophy. The conical end of the upper frag- ment is comparable to the same part long disused after amputation below the knee, and it may he use- fully C07itrasted with the expanded end of an old well- used stump-bone of the thigh. faces of bone, or polished cartilaginous faces, rub against each other : very rarely, perhaps, villi, filaments, and granular and peduncular bodies of indurated membrane, line the cavity, as they do some bursae. In the catalogue of the Hunterian Collec- tion, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (Part I., comprehending Patholo- gical Preparations in spirits. No. 175), refer- ence is made to the right os humeri of a man, sixty-eight years of age, vvhose arm had been fractured four years before his death, and a new or false joint had been formed : and No. 176 refers to small bodies found detached in the cavity or false joint of the same spe- cimen. They are thirty or forty in number. These formations are analogous to the effects of inflammation in a bursa or joint ; and, indeed, it must be expected, that while ligamentous union is equivalent to soft anky- losis, all the appearances which an adventi- tious synovial joint may assume, may also be met with in anormal states of joints and bursae. 'file reader may perceive, from what has been advanced on the subject of reuuion, i.FRACTURE. 71 that the four kinds of pseud- arthrosis are but modified results of one cause—the in- jury, or rather the inflam- mation which the injury induces. First, there is a tardy cal- lus, which has but a short du- ration, and which, if less matured, or subjected to mo- tions, or merely to atrophy, assumes a second character, namely, that of a ligamentous cellular tissue. The fact that the formation of new ligament requires the aid of extension is of consider- able practical importance : and the consideration of it ex- plains, in some measure, the occurrence of the ligamentous union of fractures instead of the ossific, and also the diffi- culty of consolidating the for- mer. Ligamentous pseudar- throsis is in itself evidence of deficient contact, orcompres- Fig. 36 represents the result of an experiment hy Sir A. Cooper, which is noio in the Museum at Guy's Hospital. A portion of the radius of a dog was excised; the actions of reparation have led to the effusion of ossific matter on each detached end of hone, without any hut incidental cellular connexion between the two ends. Some pressure and periostitis on the ulna has commenced to unite the loose cut ends of the radius to the adjacent bone. Fig. 37. Adventitious articular cavity aflcr a fracture of the neck of the femur. This figure cMiihits a fradurc partially united hy hands of ligament; the neck of the hone is entirely atrophied, so that the head and shaft are brought into contact, and their broken sur- fices are rendered smooth hy attrition; the capsular ligament is excessively thickened ; and there is a pro- jection formed hy the trnehanter minor, on which the head of the femur rested.—From Mr. B. B. Cooper's edition of Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislocations and Fractures. sion, of the fragments, as well as of undue motion. The interspace admits of a soft organization, which motion converts into ten- don, but pressure, if it e.xisted, at first would obviate the soft growth, or, subsequently, it would induce the absorption of the ligament. The complete formation of ligament, wdie- ther in the re-union of divided bone or ten- don, will probably occupy a period of many weeks, so tardily is the organization of this fibrous tissue effected. It is common to refer the slowness of these changes to the pecu- liarly low vitality of ligamentous tissues ; but w'e may perceive that the method of treat- ment is, in part, concerned in its results. Rest and retraction, and the general and topical means of arresting inflammation, concur but too well with the lacerated injury of a little vascular part in obstructing repair; and the blood, extravasated, seems once more the means of preventing union. The ineised wound of a tendon heals freely under judici- ous treatment,and also some ruptures of bone, which are most analogous to such an injury, as the transverse division of the patella. For the full effects of this kind of reparation the early products of inflammation require to be kept in a state of activity, and it is only by degrees, that a scanty cellular membrane is converted into the solid cord; as if it were by repeated extensions, and consequent in- flammations. Not unfi’equently ligamentous union of divided tendon assumes the charaeter of a cartilaginous mass, but this is still more the specific effect of tensions. Sometimes the union may ultimately present a bony nucleus —a pisiform bone—perhaps from the infiltra- tion of a portion of extravascular solid, or from the earthy degeneration peculiar to fibrous tissue in certain constitutions. It must appear, also, that in the formation of an abnormal ligamentous joint, some stimulus to ossific union is at first defective, namely, con- tact of the bones, or local excitement, or the necessary constitutional disposition, and that the existence of ligamentous union, while it prevents contact and ossific inflammation, is it- self rendered permanent by continued motion. In the first rank of cases of the second class, should be placed the ligamentous union whieh commonly follows some frac- tures of the patella, olecranon, and calcis; and occasionally, also, of the head of the femur, the humeral condyles, and the coronoid pro- cess of the lower jaw and ulna ; but these are not usually called false joints, and, excepting for incidental illustration, the present expo- sition will be confined to the affection of the long bones. It is useful, however, to remark, that the last named instances of ligamentous union are preceded by callus, and arc not without some new ossification, and that they illustrate, that for the full development of ligamentous fibre, motion and tension are72 FRACTURE. necessary. We liave seen tliat Sir A. Cooper lias figured a ligamentous union after the loss of an inch of the ulna. A callus ajipears to have been formed by granulation ; and motion (the radius being entire) converted the callus into ligament. Two such examples are to be seen in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, which seem chiefly to depend on sepa- ration of the broken ends of the nlna,—by the action of the square pronator muscle. Both Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Symes having removed portions of the radius in animals, found, not ligamentous union between the fragment, but only a consolidation of each broken end in connexion with the ulna,—the interspace being filled up with a simple cel- lular tissue. This shows that some special cause, as tension, is requisite to convert com- mon tissue into ligament. The formation of a new synovial joint, attended with bare, smooth, or eburnated, surfaces of bone, is an instance of the most scanty repairing action ; and, at the same time, one of the most rare occurrences. That, at- tended with the development of cartilaginous surfaces, indicates little reparative defect be- sides deficiency of bone. It is a kind of bursa, and the like may be formed whenever two sur- faces of natural bone rub against each other, with but little injury to their periosteal invest- ments. In this case, inflammation is set up, causing effusion into a cell, whose walls become thickened ; and there is often some ossifica- tion without, to the effect, that the small spot, on which pressure excited inflammation, being made wider by surrounding solid depo- sit, the force of the pressure is diffused, in- flammation ceases, and the new joint remains as if natural. Cheselden has figured such a joint between the middle of the tibia and fibula of a deformed limb. When the sequels of fracture, firm capsu- lar ligaments, secure these joints, and often render them very available. It is easy to understand that the original cell of the frac- ture majy" remain unobliterated, from the same want of nutrition as that which leaves the ends denuded, to . rub and polish each other, perhaps to excavate one and round another ; but the idea of a ball and socket-joint is never completely realized. Fig. 38 offers a fair illustration of the kind of cavity that may sometimes be met with. Boyer, who examined many false joints with the view of determining the particulars of their anatomy, does not admit the existence of an articular cavity, nor of cartilaginous in- cru.station of the fragments. In the experi- ments of MM. Breschet and Villerme, how- ever, they found, that in six cases out of nine, in wliich they had produced false joints in the lower animals, the articulations corre- sponded to the description just giveii.^ In the second and most usual form of false joint, the broken ends of the fragments become rounded by absorption, ami covered by a thick periosteum. Between them, sometimes, numerous fibrous bands run, the intervals be- Fig. ;i8. Fig. 38 represents a pseudaiihrosis, ivith a distinct spno- ■ vial ruvity in the fore-arm. There were suiftces o/< apparently hare bone in the cavity, much overlapping, of the n/iper fragments forwards, considerable thick- ■ ening of each, 'broken end, with partial granular and peduncidar fringes lining a thick dense capsule,. by which alone the four etids of bone were connected i together. This specimen is in the Museum of Guy's- Hospital. tween which are filled with cellular tissue. There is nothing like an articular cavit)'. The longer the fibrous bands, the more seri-- ously are the uses of the limb impaired. The following analysis of the larger table ^ indicates, in a general way, the usual seats of’ the pseudarthroscs which the surgeon may be required to treat, and the proportional fre-- quency of their occurrence, and of their final restoration : Of 150 cases, “48 occurred in the femur, of which 31 were cured, 9 remained without benefit, 6 died, and of 2 the result was not stated. “48 occurred in the humerus, of which 31 were cured, 14 did not receive benefit, 3 died. “ 33 occurred in the leg, of which 32 were cured, 1 treated without benefit. “ 19 occurred in the fore-arm, of which 17T were cured, 1 remained without benefit, 1 died. “ 2 occurred in the jaw, and both were ■ cured.” Thus the varieties of pseudarthroses be- come very numerous, and we shall have to remark great difl'erences in their causes and progress: the minor jieculiarities which af- fect surrounding parts will scarcely require especial illustration, as they will be spoken of in the course of our remarks, d he extent to'r FRACTURE. wliich the muscles and other parts are gra- dually enabled to adapt themselves to the ne\v order of things is deserving of much attention. Sir Everard Home relates (Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. page 41) that “ a negro, about thirty years of ago, having had his arm broken above the elbow-joint, the two portions of the os humeri were un- fortunately not reduced into their places, but remained in the state in which they were left by the accident, till the bony union had taken place ; so that when the man recovered, the injured bone, from the position in which the fractured parts were left, was shortened almost one-half of its length. From this cir- cumstance the biceps flexor cubiti muscle, which bends the fore-arm, was so much longer than the distance between its origin and insertion, that in the most contracted state it could scarcely bring itself into a straight line: the muscle, however, in time, as the arm recovered strength, adapted itself to the change of circumstances by becoming shorter, so as to correspond to the diminished length of the bone; and by acquiring a new con- traction in this shortened state, it was en- abled to bend the fore-arm. “ Some years after this accident the person died, and the circumstance above-mentioned being known, the parts were examined with particular attention. The biceps muscles of both arms were carefully dissected out, and being measured, the one was found to be eleven inches long, the other only five ; so that the muscle of the fractured arm had lost six inches, which is more than half of its original length, as is distinctly shown in the preparation.” “ The causes ' of non-union after fracture, are either constitutional, or local. Among the constitutional causes, the existence syphilis in the system is generally looked upon as being suHicient to retard, or altogether to pre- vent, the process of union after fractures. Numerous instances, in which this has been the apparent cause, might be cited from the old writers. Among the moderns, M. Sanson is one of those who lay most stress upon it. ‘ I have twice,’ says he, ‘ had occasion to observe the marked influence of syphilis in retarding consolidation. One of the cases was a fracture of the leg, which was not (inn after eight months’ em])loyment of the ordi- nary means of treatment. The other was a fracture of the humerus, which was not united after eighteen months, except by a soft and flexible substance. In both these cases, un- equivocal proofs existed of concomitant syphi- litic affections, and after an anti-syphilitic treatment of two months was employed, con- solidation took place.’ (Diet, do Med. et Ciiir. Prat. iii. p. 402.) Rcrard (Des Causes qui emjjcchent ou retardent la Consolidation ' Conceniin;; tlic c.iii8e8 of non-union, the reader Will have little reason to complain of our oinployinjr the words of Dr. Norris, wiio Ims devoted liiinself most |)atientfy and suceesstully to (lie literature of his sub- jeet. des Fractures, et des moyens de I’obtenir.— These, Paris, 1833) mentions the case of a simple fracture of the leg, observed by M. Nicod, in which there was no union after nine months of treatment, w'hen syphilitic symp- toms being discovered, the patient was placed under a mercurial course, and conso- lidation took place. An instance was related to the Academy of Medicine of Paris, by M. Beulac, (.lourn. de Med. Chir. et Pharm. in 40 vols. tom. XXV. p. 216) of a fracture that had existed two months, where the consolida- tion w'as retarded by syphilis, under which the patient laboured, and at the same sitting several members stated like facts. The fol- lowing case, in which want of union seemed owing to the existence of syphilis, has been obligingly communicated to me by Dr. Con- die. On the 28th of August, 1828, J. Rowen, set. 48, fractured both bones of the left fore- arm, some inches above the wrist, by a fall from a hay-loft. A few' hours subsequent to the accident the bones were properly reduced, and the arm put in splints. He was a man of dissipated habits, and had been since his 21st year repeatedly under treatment in hospitals for syphilis. At the time of his accident, he was labouring under ulceration of the throat, nodes, and cutaneous blotches, and his gums and breath exhibited indications of mercurial action. The Lisbon diet drink, and a nou- rishing diet, were ordered, in addition to ex- ercise in the open air. On the 30th of Sep- tember, no attempt at union having taken place, Dr. Physick saw the patient, but sug- gested no change in the treatment. On the 22d of November, eighty'-five days after the occurrence of the accident, when the patient was last seen, no union was perceptible. Op- posed to these statements, however, the great experience of M. Lagneau (Expose des Symp. de la Mai. Venerienne, p. 523 ; Paris, 1818,) may be quoted, w'ho mentions that he has witnessed numerous examples of fractures, in which union took place promptly, notwith- standing the existence of constitutional syphi- lis. Oppenheim (On False .Toints, in Zeit- schrift fiir die gesammte Medicin, No. 5, May 1837), too, avers, that he has observed various cases, in wdiich general syphilis being present, fractures united exceedingly well, and is inclined totally to discard the snspicion that syphilis in any way retards the union of broken bones. M. Bcrard, after numerous researches, sums uj) his opinion in the follow- ing language (Op. citat. p. 11) : ‘ Despite the numerous occasions in which surgeons have witnessed the co-existence of syphilis with fractures, it has been very rarely ])roved that the syphylitic virus exercises any influence upon the formation of callus.’ “ Pregnancy, and suckling, are stated in most of our treatises also at times to retard, or prevent, firm union from taking place after fracture. “ As a general rule, it may be said that these states do not interfere with the occur- rence of bony union. Of fifty-six cases exa- mined by Mr. Atnesbury (On*Fractures, 2nd74. FRACTURE. ed. p. 197, 1829), but two happened during the process of gestation, and these he is not disposed to attribute to the peculiar disturb- ance of the system which is observed inj)reg- nancy. Callisen (Syst. Chir. Hodiern. pars 1, ^ 1313) reports that he has in several cases seen fractures in pregnant women get per- fectly well, though the time required for firm union was a little longer than that ordinarily demanded. Of four cases of fracture which came under the care of Mr. Latta, in the fifth, sixth, and seventh months of pregnancy (two of the thigh, one of the tibia, and one of the fore-arm), all were cured in the ordinary time. (System of Surgery, iii. p. 363.) Mr. Liston (Elements of Surgery, 2nd ed. 1839, p. 686) has often seen fractures in women carrying children unite as speedily and firmly as if the patients had not been in that state, and otherwise in robust health ; but observes, ‘ Profuse uterine or vaginal discharges, or de- termination to particular parts or organs, will certainly retard union. Several of my friends who have observed fractures in this class of patients, have assured me that the injuries have been repaired in the usual period. That however these states do occasionally retard the reparation of fractured bones, there can be no doubt.’ Werner (.Richter, quoted from Cooper’s Diet. p. 546, ed. 1838) has published the case of a fractured radius in a pregnant woman, where the cure was appa- rently retarded for a long time by this cir- cumstance, and though the union took ])lace previously to delivery,the callus was not very firm till after that event. Fabricius Hildanus (Opera, 1681, Cent. 5, Obs. 87, and Cent. 6, Obs. 68), Wilson (On the Human Skeleton, p. 214), Ferdinand Hertodius (Ephem. des Cur. de la Nat. Ire annee, Obs. 25, quoted from Bib. Choisie de Med. xxiv. p. 595), have all witnessed cases in which this retardation had taken place. A remarkable and well de- tailed instance of this kind is recorded by Mr. Alanson (Med. Obs. and Inquiries, iv. 1772). It is that of a delicate female, who in the second month of pregnancy met with an oblique fracture of the tibia, which, in spite of a well-directed treatment, had not united when she was delivered at full time (seven months after the accident), but which, as she recovered strength after her confine- ment, began to unite, so that nine weeks after this period she was able to walk about her room with a firm limb. What proves beyond a doubt in this case that the want of union \yas owing entirely to her pregnant state was, tiiat three months before impregnation slie had been very happily and speedily cured of a fractured femur. “ Another well described case, in which a fracture received during pregnancy did not unite till after delivery, was observed by Dr. Bard of New York, and is to be found in the Philosophical 'FransactionsCxlvi. p. 397,1750). In this instance the left fore-arm was frac- tured oblifiuely in the third month of preg- nancy ; finfling the arm continued flexible at the end of seventy-five days, though the ends of the bones were in perfect apposition, Dr. B. applied an apparatus to keep the limb in a good position, and gave encouraging hopes to the patient, that after her labour the economy of nature would be more immediately di- rected to the recovery of the use of her arm. In less than a month after her delivery, the callus was fully formed, and the patient reco- vered the use of her arm. The following case, kindly furnished to me by Dr. Condie of this city, also strikingly shows the influ- ence that may be exerted by a state of preg- nancy upon the consolidation of fractures'. S. R. aet. 36, on the 13th of October, 1820, being then in the eighth month of her third pregnancy, fell in going up stairs, and frac- tured her right humerus immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The fractured bone was carefully adjusted within half an hour after the accident, and the pa- tient, being to all appearance in perfect health, a speedy union was anticipated. No union occurring. Dr. Physick saw the patient on the 13th of November, and carefully examined her arm. He remarked, that according to his experience, fractures occurring in preg- nant females often remained ununited until after parturition, when union very generally and rapidly took place, and believed this would be the case with S. R., provided mo- tion at the seat of injury was guarded against. “ On the 27th of November the patient was delivered of a healthy child, rather above the common size, and by the 31st of December the bone had become firmly united. “ Whether the states of pregnancy, or of suckling, have any direct effect in preventing union of the bones, or whether this is only in consequence of the debility which these con- ditions of system often induce, is undeter- mined. I am myself inclined to adopt the latter supposition, and in support of it will adduce the cases reported by Sir Stephen Love Hammick. ‘ I have seen,’observes this author (Practical Remarks on Amputations, Fractures, &c., p. 121), ‘three cases of this sort, one of the leg, in a woman in the first months, who was extremely debilitated from an incessant irritability of stomach, causing her to reject all her food, but as the pregnancy advanced her stomach became tranquil, when on recovering her strength the bone united. Another had a fracture of the humerus in the latter months ; the patient was in a state of groat exhaustion ; after her delivery she would ])ersist in nursing’ the child, which continued her weakness, and it was not till two months after she consented to wean it that the bone united by the vigour of the system having returned. The third was in the last months of pregnancy, and after delivery, not attempt- ing to nurse the infant, she rajtidly improved in health, and the limb quickly got well.’ “ That the state of the constitution has con- siderable influence over the ])rocoss of repa- ration in fractured bones, none can deny— where the lancet has been largely usetl alter the accident,—where patients are much dcbili- —or are labouring under constitutionalT FRACTURE. diseases, the process may be retarded ; but when that peculiarity of constitution, which renders the vessels of the injured part incom- petent to furnish bony matter, does not exist, we find generally the deposit of callus to take place, upon the morbid state of system being removed. Schmucker (Verniischte Chir. Schriften, quoted from S. Cooper) found the formation of callus, even in the most simple fractures, sometimes delayed eight months, and, in one example, more than a year ; but all the patients were unhealthy. Even after a fractured limb has become per- fectly firm, and is surrounded by a large mass of callus, it is possible for it to become softened, or even entirely absorbed, during an attack of general fever, erysipelas, or other acute affection. I have, in two or three instances, witnessed the first of these effects produced by attacks of erysipelas in compound fractures, w'hen the disease has prevailed generally in the wards of the Pennsylvania Hospital; and in one instance of simple fracture, have seen a rapid absorption of a large callus, which had produced firm union of a fracture of the lower third of the leg, occur without any apparent cause, to such an extent, as to ren- der the fragments very movable, and necessi- tate a renew’al of the treatment. This ab- sorption, or softening of the callus, has been observed by Mead (Medical Works, p. 442), in a sailor, attacked by scurvy, in whom, three months after firm union of a fractured clavicle, the callus became softened and gave way ; in this case the general affection is stated to have retarded, for more than six months, any new union. In speaking of the effects of the scurvy, besides the case which Lord Anson mentions, of a man on board the Centurion, in whom ‘the eallus of a broken bone which had been completely formed for a long time was found to be dis- solved, and the fracture seemed as if it had never been consolidated;’ another in- stance has been recently observed by Dr. Budd (Tweedie’s Cyclopedia—Art.Scurvy). We find recorded by Desault (Journ. de Chirurg. i. p. 243), the case of a fractured femur occurring in a woman, aged eighty- tw'o, where consolidation took place by the seventy-fifth day, but in whom, two months after, death occurred from severe diarrhoea, and the callus was found completely softened. Morgagni (French Translation, ix. p. 159, Paris, 1820) quotes from Salzmann, the case of a soldier with a fractured tibia, in whom union had become so firm as to allow of his walking u])on the limb without difficulty ; but during an attack of fever, eight months after- wards, the callus was noticed gradually to disappear, so that the ends of the bone became separated. After convalescence, the parts again became firm. Dr. Schilling has seen the callus deposited around the ends of a fractured femur, which had become so firm as to allow the patient to bear some weight u])onthe limb, completely absorbed during an attack of typhus abdominalis. Ten days after the symptoms of this disorder set in, callus could no longer be felt, and the bones moved as easily upon one another as immediately after the reception of the injury. In six days more the patient died. The examination showed no trace of callus, the broken surfaces were bloody, like those in a recent fracture, and were surrounded by a sac-like membrane, which contained some black bloody fluid. (British and Foreign Med. Review', 1840.) Mr. Mantell has recently published the case of a youth, aged seventeen (Lancet, i. 1841-2, p. 58), who, some weeks after the perfect cure of a fractured leg, W’as seized w’ith a severe attack of fever, and upon first leaving his bed after the subsidence of it, the limb bent under him in consequence of the callus having become soft, and giving way. As recovery from the fever proceeded, new callus was formed and reunion of the fracture was effected, though with much deformity of the limb. In the thesis of M. Berard, I find an- other instance, quoted from Bonn, where fever with inflammation and gangrene, occurring in an old man, who had suffered from fracture of the femur, which afterw'ards became firmly united, produced absorption to such an extent, as to allow the fragments to become moveable one upon the other. Dr.Penel (Lend. Med. and Phys. Journ. xiv. p. 29, 1805), Surgeon to the Civil and Military Hospital at Abbe- ville, furnishes the case of an elderly man with fractured thigh, in whom, on the fortieth day, union being solid, the di-essings were removed, and the limb laid on a bolster ; but suddenly the callus was destroyed, and it was necessary to make continued extension to reduce the fractured bones: at the same time the urine w'as observed to deposit a considerable quantity of a greenish sub- stance, which, on examination, was found to be phosphate of lime. Shortly after- wards the fraeture seemed again to consoli- date, the urine, however, remained the same, and was passed in a greater quantity. Two months after the fraeture, the callus appeared a second time firm. The dressings wei’e con- tinued twenty days longer; but two days after their removal, the extremities of the fracture separated, and it w'as necessary again to make the reduction. He now gave the patient Sssof nitric acid daily, when the urine became clearer, and four months after his first recci)tion the dressings were removed and the limb found to be firm. From some cases published by M. Guyot (Arch. Gen. de Med. Feb. 183G), it appears that an inflammatory action in the callus alone, unaccompanied by any other affection, and ensuing several weeks after the accident, occasionally i)roduces softening and absorption of the newly formed bone, and ultimately disunion of the ends. Duverney (Op. citat. ))rcface, Malgaigne, Lancette F'ranyuise, iii. p. 217, 1830), War- drop (Med. Chir. 'I'rans. v.), Kirkbride, (Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, xv. 1835,) and Vidal, havo all witnessed cases of absorj)- tion of the callus in acute local disorders. This76 FRACTURE. softening, or absorption, however, affects the provisional callus alone, and is, consequently, seen only in the first few months that follow a fracture; at a later period, when the defini- tive callus is completely formed, the bone becomes more dense and firm than it origi- nally was, and is never absorbed. The fol- lowing well-attested case, in which, not only the callus resulting from a fractured humerus, but the whole bone was slowly absorbed, is, we believe, without parallel in the records of surgery. “ Mr. Brown, residing in Derne Street, Bos- ton, aged thirty-six, when in his eighteenth year, fractured the humerus near its middle. Under the care of a judicious surgeon, a reunion was favourably going on ; but before the curative process had been completed, the patient had another fall, and again broke the arm at the seat of the old fracture. Notwith- standing every care, the divided extremities would not adhere ; and to the surprise of the medical attendant, the shaft of each part of the divided bone began to diminish in size, and shorten in length. By a gradual action of the absorbents, the whole of the arm-bone, between the shoulder and the elboM', was at length completely removed, and that too, without any open ulcer, so that not a vestige of it was left. Mr. B. now, after many years, f)resents the spectacle of one short and one ong arm. The right fore-arm and hand are of a size to correspond with the sound one on the left side, and, under certain circumstances, are equally as strong. Ordinaril}', the right arm swings hither and thither, like a thong with a weight at the extremity ; for the fore- arm and hand, with reference to the division above the elbow, constitute a pendulum, oscil- lating according to the movements of the body. Although it is impossible to push with the defective arm, he can draw a burden towards himself with it as strongly and tenaciously as with the other ; and in so doing, the muscles are elongated, so that the arm is extended to its original length ; when the resistance is removed, the muscles instantly shorten them- selves about six inches. To show the perfect non-resistance of the apparatus of muscles, arteries, veins, and nerves in ihe soft, bone- less space, we saw him twist the palm of the hand twice round, which consequently yire- sented the strange anomaly of having all the apparatus of the arm twisted like the strands of a rope.” ( Boston Med. and Surg. Journ. July, 183R, p. .‘368.) Cancerous njfeclions of the bones induce fracture as before described (page 5), and it is certain that a tumour of considerable size and rapid growth may separate the divided j)arts of a bone in such a manner as to preclude the possibility of reunion ; but besides this, tliere does not ap])car to bo any cause of non-union which belongs to the malignant disease, since ossification, as we have seen, continues during its progress, ajid often repairs the fractures which it has induced. “Women labouring under cancer,” says Sir B. Brodie (Lend. Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 36, 1833), “are liable to a similar disease of different bones of the body, which then become brittle and very liable to break. 1 saw an old woman dying of this disease, who in turning in bed broke the femur ; union took place here as well as under ordinary circumstances, I attended a lady who had cancer of the breast, and a scirrhous affection of the collar bone, and one day in moving her arm, the collar bone was broken, but it united just as if it had been a healthy bone.” Mr. Liston (Practical Surgery, 2nd Ame- rican edition, p. 100) has recorded the case of a female, aet. 49, affected with carcino- matous tumours under the jaw and in both breasts, as well as in the uterus, and other internal organs, in whom firm union occurred after two fractures of the left, and one of the right humerus, all received within fourteen months, and produced by very slight causes. Mr. Coates, and Sir Charles Bell (Loud. Med. Gaz. xiii.), have given, each a case, of fracture occurring in cancerous patients, where no sort of union had formed after eight and six weeks, and where cancerous matter was found deposited in the bones. “ Fragility of the bones.—The same cause which gives rise to undue fragility in the bony structure, might d <priori be supposed to retard, if it did not altogether prevent their consolidation after fractures. Experience however proves this not to be the case, and generally indeed, it may be said, that where a proneness to fracture from trifling causes exists, these accidents are repaired with great facility. “ Scurvy fevers of a low type, or any other disease inducing great debility, or actual prostration, may also prevent the reparative process after fractures from taking place as in ordinary cases.” The cause of want of union is sometimes to be found in the general impoverished and bad stale of the system, produced by improper abstinence from food, or the withdrawal of an habitual stimulus. The following cases illus- trative of this cause are given by Sir B. Brodie (Lond. Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 36, 1833). “ A gentleman was growing fat, and not liking to do so, he placed himself on a very slim diet, though accustomed to good living pre- viously. After six months of starvation, he broke his arm, and the bone would not unite. 1 saw him many months afterwards, and there was scarcely any union, even by soft sub- stance. Another patient about whom I was consulted, a lady, was growing fat, and thought she would also prevent it, by pur- suing a similar system of diet. Some months afterwards she broke her arm, and union did not lake place.” A striking instance of the same cause in preventing union is related by M. Noel (Prix de I’Acad. de Chirnrg. v. j). 43, 8vo, Paris, 1819), of a girl, mlat. 18, of good constitution, in whom no attempt at union ^ had taken place after a fraclurc of the leg atFRACTURE, 77 its middle part, at the end of eight months. The patient was greatly reduced from want of nourishment, she having subsisted for some time upon six ounces of bread, with water, per diem. Supposing want of union to de- pend upon insufficient nourishment, the patient w'as placed upon a good diet, and about six weeks afterwards union of the frac- tured bones was perfect. Beckett relates the case of a patient, setat. 23, with fractured os humeri, in whom the loss of a large quantity of blood, and the denying him a competent sustenance prevented re-union till the end of nine months ( Chirurgical Observations, p. 16). A case in which want of union may perhaps be attributed to slim diet together with repeated bleedings, is given by Dr. Hewson (North American Journ. for Jan. 1828, p. 11). This patient was admitted into the Pennsyl- vania Hospital, in March, 1827, on account of an imperfect union of the tibia near its cen- tre. In August, 1818, both bones of the leg were broken. He was subjected to a severe antiphlogistic treatment and lost seve- ral pounds of blood. It was not until six weeks after the accident that he was allowed any portion of animal food. Other striking illustrations of the effect of an altered mode of living, may be found in the Medico-Chi- rurgical Review for January, 1836. Mr. Wilson,formerly professor of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, used to re- late an impressive instance of the influence of constitution upon the powers of reparation. A woman accustomed to drink spirits suf- fered a fracture of the leg, and was deprived for a while of her habitual stimulus ; but no repair of the bone went on, until her wonted and necessary support was had recourse to, and then she rapidly recovered. “ The influence of low diet, long continued, up6n the jiarts interested in compound frac- tures, must have been noticed by all sur- geons, and the good effect produced in such cases by an increased diet, and the allowance of an accustomed stimulus, as well in causing the more ra])id deposit of callus, as in im- proving the state of the wound, have boon observed. That the large abstraction of blood alone will not prevent the formation of callus, is well seen in the following cases. “Isaac Yorkc, setat. 19, was admitted into the Pennsylvania Hospital, October .5th, 1801, for fracture of the right thigh. His accident had happened one week previously to his admission, during which time he had been delirious, and had uudergoue five bleed- ings, in all amounting to one hundred and two ounces. He continued to do well until the 7th, when his delirium returned, and l)etwcen this date and the 15th, he was bled at different times to the amount of ninety ounces, itiaking in all one hundred and ninety-two ounces ; from the 15th he recovered ra])idly, and was discharged from the hospital January 13th, 1802. “.las. Orr,a:fat. .32, was admitted May 16th, 1804, for compound fracture of the leg, two inches above the ankle, and injury of his thorax. Great pain and difficulty of breath- ing follow'ed the accident, to relieve which he lost thirty ounces of blood in the first tw-enty- four hours following it. On the 20th, deli- rium set in, and in the two following days sixry-two ounces more of blood were taken from him, making in all ninety ounces; after this his symptoms abated, and he recovered rapidly.” (Penn. Hos. Case-Book, i. pp. 27, 31.) Deficiency of nervous influence has been supposed, on very feeble grounds, to be a cause of non-union. An instance is men- tioned by Mr. Travers (Further Inquiry, &c. p. 436), “ in w hich union failed to proceed after a fracture of the leg that was paralyzed from fracture of the lumbar vertebrae, although the humerus, broken at the same time, united perfectly in the usual period. Mr. Tuson notices a case of paralysis of the low'er part of the body from injury of the spine, accom- panied by fracture of the fibula and disloca- tion of the shoulder joint, in which the frac- ture of the fibula, the leg being paralyzed, did not reunite, nor did there appear any reaction about the parts to effect it; whilst the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, which was not paralyzed, did unite and was scarcely perceptible (On the Spine, p. 254). Mr. Benjamin Philips (Lend. Med. Gaz. for May, 1840, p. 327) has seen a case in which the same injury that fractured a man’s leg injured the low’er part of the spine ; he lived five weeks, but there had been no effort at reparation. Diminished nervous influence will not, how'ever, in all instances, hinder the formation of callus, as is shown by a case recorded by Mr. Busk (Lond. Med. Gaz. for April, 1840, p. 97), of a gentleman, aetat. 65, who had been more or less paralytic for upwards of twenty j'ears, for the last twelve or fourteen of which he had been .completely deprived of all power of motion and sensa- tion from the loins dowmwards, who fractured his left leg below the middle, and in whom, at the end of five weeks, the bones had firmly united.” CiUling off the direct tnipply of blood to an extremity by ligature of the itrincipal arterial trunk, might d priori be supposed sufficient to retard union after fracture. This, however, does not seem always to exert a marked iii- fluenee upon the itrocess. Petit (Mai. des Os, quoted from the thesis of Bcrard, p. 27) men- tions a fractured leg, accompanied by rujiture of the anterior tibial artery, in w’hich union was effected in the usual way. In the Sur- gical Essays of Mr. Bransby Cooper is a case of fractured femur accompanied with injury to the popliteal artery, where, although* the femoral was taken uj), the fracture was soundly united in six weeks. In a case, however, of a similar kind, reported by Du|)uytrcn (Lcyons Oralcs, iv. 618), the work of'consolidation went on slowly, the nutrition being weakened ill the limb by the ligature of the artery. At the end of the first month, the callus hadFRACTURE. 78 scarcely begun to be formed ; at the termina- tion of the second, union was very weak, and it did not become perfectly solid till after the expiration of four months. In animals, such as guinea-pigs, rabbits, &c. Brodie has found by experiment, that the reparative process in a fracture of the thigh-bone is delayed in its commencement for a week or a fortnight, by placing a ligature on the femoral artery, but at the end of that time union goes on as though no such operation had been done. (Lancet, i. p. 381, 1840-1.) “ Advanced age is placed among the causes which always retard the consolidation of frac- tured bones, though the reading of observa- tions reported, and dailj" experience, does not confirm it. In some cases of this kind, I have seen the callus deposited and firm union occur remarkably soon. In 1838, two in- stances in which this took place were treated by me at the Pennsylvania Hospital. In one of them, occurring in a man aged ninety, the humerus was fractured near its middle, and under the usual treatment, firm union took place at the end of six weeks. In the other, a decrepid female, aged eighty, who died from exhaustion eighty-four days after frac- tures of the middle of the femur and the ilium, the mass of matter thrown out around the fractured portions was truly astonishing. An instance is mentioned by Professor Hor- ner (Treatise on Anatomy, i. p. 27), in which a simple fracture of the os humeri occurring in a female, aged ninety, was firmly united at the end of five weeks. Adverting to the sup- posed influence of old age in causing imper- fection or failure of bony union. Dr. Wright thus gives his experience. ‘ I have been frequently struck with the resources of the system in old age, as displayed in the prompt and perfect repair of injuries both of the soft and solid parts of the body. In the closing of wounds, the filling up and healing of exten- sive ulcers, and the firm reunion of fractures, it has occurred to me to observe all those processes accomplished with a facility and completeness scarcely exceeded at any age, in some instances where the subjects of such accidents had passed the eightieth year of life.’ (American Journ. of Med. Sci. iv. p. 273.) Bonn (Descript. Thesauri Ossium Morb. p. 59-61, 1783), quoted from Berard’s thesis, p. 7. however, has furnished two obser- vations, where advanced age appeared to be the only circumstance which retarded the formation of callus. Some idea of the influ- ence of age in the production of false joint, may be derived from an analysis of 112 cases extracted from our table, in which the age is noted. Of the age of 2 and under there were 14 Between the ages of 20 and 30 there were 53 Between the ages of 30 and 40 . . 21 Above the age of 40 . . • • ‘^4 112” Of the last named twenty-four only six w'ere above fifty-five ; namely, two were sixty years of age ; one sixty-one, one sixty-five, and tw'o seventy-four. Thus there are no grounds for suj>posing that advanced life im- pedes reunion of bones in the slightest degree. “ According to Larrey, (Memoirs of Mili- tary Surgery, trans. by Hall, i. p. 301.) even the season and atmospheric temperature may exert some influence upon the consolidation of fractured bones ; he relates that the gun- shot wounds of the superior extremities com-- plicated with fracture, especially those of the humerus, received by the French soldiers in Syria, although dressed according to art, were almost all followed by accidental articulations, which he attributes to the following causes. “ 1st. To the continual motion to which the wounded were exposed after their departure from Syria, until their arrival in Egypt, and; their being obliged to travel mounted, or on foot. “ 2nd. To the bad quality of their food, and; to the brackish water that they' were forced. to drink on this tedious journey. “ 3rd. To the state of the atmosphere in Syria, that is almost deprived of vital air, and; loaded with pernicious vapours arising from the numerous marshes near which they re- mained a long time.” “ The local causes which may hinder the. consolidation of fractured bones are various. “ 1st. Frequent motion of the part. This> may be owing either to indocility and per-- verseness on the part of the patient, to removing patients from place to place after: these accidents, or to a want of apparatus- wherein to confine the fractured limb. Too much motion from injudicious management of ' the fracture by frequent dressing, or the lay- ing aside of splints, and the use of the limb at too early a period after the accident, may' also give rise to it. Frequent motion of a fractured limb is the only cause of want of union mentioned by Cclsus. Mr. Amesbury- (Loc. citat. p. 197) considers want of rest to be more frequently' the occasion of deficient union than any other, and considers it tO‘ have been the primary cause in almost all the- cases which he had examined. The opinion that want of union is to be attributed most generally to some defect in our treatment, is- held by Dr. J. R. Barton (Medical Re- corder, ix. p. 276, 1826), Liston (Lancet, ii. 168, 1835-6), Key (Lond. Med. Gaz. iv. p. 262, 1829), Macfarlane (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xlvii. 1837), and most other surgeons who have of late written upon the subject. Out of forty-four cases extracted from tho table appended to this paper, in which the occurrence of pseudarthrosis 1)!^ boon set down by the authors to some parti- cular cause, twenty'-two may', I think, from what is stated, be fairly attributed to motion in the fracture caused by neglect, or entire want of treatment. The information on this point, however, derived from the table, can- not be entirely depended upon, little or noFRACTURE. 79 )l I attention seeming to have been directed to it bv most of tlie reporters of the cases. ’ “ 2nd. Frovi the fractured ends being tuidely separate, or from their not being kept closely in contact. The nearer the fractured ends of a bone, in which the injury has been followed bv loss of substance, are laid, the easier will consolidation take place, and though want of union after fractures may undoubtedly follow the first of these causes, yet its occurrence in such cases is not constant. The length of bone that may be removed from fractured limbs and regenerated, often even under unfavourable circumstances, or in debilitated subjects, is truly astonishing. In the case of a boy, aetat. 12, who came under my care in the Pennsyl- vania Hospital in 1837, two inches of the tibia were removed, notwithstanding which, he was discharged cured in eleven weeks, with shortening of the limb of but half an inch, the space occupied by the removed bone, being filled by a firm and even callus. Van Swieten (Commentaries, i. p. 514, $ 343) relates that he saw a fragment of the tibia, four inches in length, removed after a frac- ture, and replaced at the end of ten months by a firm matter without shortening of the limb. Gooch (Chirurgical Works, ii. p.285) notes a case in which five inches of the tibia were lost, and supplied by solid bone. Mr. Phillips (Lond. Med. Gaz. May, 1840) men- tions a young man in whom five inches had been removed with a similar result. Lam- motte (Traite de Chirurg. ii. p. 148) nar- rates two remarkable instances of a like kind, in one of which six inches of the tibia were removed after the accident, notwithstanding which the fragments were united at the end of eight months without shortening, by a firm callus. Many similar cases are to be found in the records of our science, and all hospital surgeons must have frequently witnessed such, in a greater or less degree. “ The consequence of want of close con- tact between the fractured surfaces is well seen in the patella, olecranon, and os calcis, all of which unite by bone when brought strictly in apposition, but as this in most cases cannot bo effected, arc found gene- rally united by a fibro-ligamentous matter of greater or less length, according as the frag- ments have been more or less widely sepa- rated. The difficulty of retaining the bones in close contact in oblique fractures, is, in the oi>inion of many, a very common cause of deficient bony union. To place the frag- ments in contact in these cases, extension and counter-extension is kept up, and often the force exerted is in so great a degree, as to cause suffering to the patient, and is by him, or his attendants, relaxed after the departure of the surgeon. At the following visit, dis- placement is found to exist, and in endea- vouring to avoid deformity, the surgeon extends the limb. Pain ensues, and the appa- ratiis is again loosened, and this is rci)oated until, from the constant slip[)ing of the frag- ments over each other, cither the ends of the bones become smoothed off, and as it were cicatrized, w-ith a large and misshapen callus thrown out around each extremity, or else bony matter is not deposited in sufficient quantity to surround the fractured ends, which continue loosely united by means of a fibro-ligamentous matter. “ 3rd. From disease of the fractured extremi- ties. This is particularly the casein compound fractures where necrosis follows. In these injuries, if the periosteum be torn off from the ends of the bone, these parts at once lose their vitality, and the suppuration kept up around the fragments during exfoliation hin- ders union from occurring till a late period, in addition to which the long confinement necessitated by such a state, exerts a noxious influence upon the constitution of the patient, and by this means still further retards the work of reparation. The case cited by Faivre (Ancien Journ. Ixviii. p. 210) was of this kind. The seat of fracture was in the tibia, and had existed for seven months. A portion of the whole cylinder of the bone, one inch and a half in length, was found loose and vvas removed, and the ends cau- terized with a hot iron ; six months after which a perfect cure had taken place. Schmucker (Verm. Chir. Schrif. quoted from S. Cooper) also relates a case of fractured leg in which necrosis of a portion of the tibia followed, and no callus was formed at the end of eight months, a sinus remaining on each side of the leg. The sinuses, at the end of the time stated, were laid open, and the dead pieces of bone extracted, by which means the impediment to the formation of callus was removed, and the fracture became firmly united in two months. Sometimes, however, the necrosis is only the remote consequence of the injury. Pieces of bone are completely bi’oken off at the time of accident, but still retain their life, and are embedded in the provisional callus, and wdien the fracture is almost consolidated, these lose their vitality and act as foreign substances, giving rise to inflammation, which destroys in the course of a few days all the solidity of the callus, and postpones for a long time the cure. Mr. Amesbury (Loc. citat. p. 197) mentions his having seen a man with a fractured humerus accompanied with necrosis, in which no union took place, and the arm was amputated. I have myself had occasion to observe a frac- ture of the leg accompanied with caries, in an elderly w'oman, where union failed to occur, and amputation was ])crformed by request of the patient. Ilildanus (Opera, 168, cent. ii. obs. 66), Duverney (Mai. dcs Os), Petit, Ileistcr (Surgery, trans. 1763, ]). 128), and many other authors, have recorded similar facts. Interesting cases in which the development of hydatids in the medullary canal prevented the formation of callus have occurred to Webster (New Eng. .Toiirn. viii. p. 29, 1819), Wickham (Loud. Med. and Phys. Journ. ii. N. S.), and Dupuy- tren (Journ. Hebdom. xii. and ix. 1833) ; and80 FRACTURE. Amesbury (Op. citat. p. 197) has seen the same thing follow the existence of abscess in the bone. Mr. Arnott (Lond. Med. Gaz. June, 1840) amputated the limb of a patient in Middlesex Hospital, in consequence of a fracture of the leg which had occurred in the situation of a node, and remained un- united at the end of a year : the fibula in this case was firmly consolidated. The general rule, however, that broken diseased bones will not unite, is not absolute. Dr. Peirson (Remarks on Fractures, p. 38, Boston, 1840) has seen repeated instances of rapid consoli- dation in bones so diseased as to be broken by a very small degree of force. ‘ 1 had a patient,’ says Sir B. Brodie (London Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 56, 1833), “ in whom some of the bones had nodes upon them, and were much enlarged. A portion of the clavicle was enlarged, and much diseased besides. This man broke the collar bone through the dis- eased part. I bound up his arm, and it united as soon as ordinary fractures.’ In the follow- ing case treated by me at the Pennsylvania Hospital, want of union was evidently kept up by a necrosed state of the inferior fragment, after the removal of which a perfect cure was effected. “ The patient was a healthy farmer from Clearfield county, Pennsylvania, aged thirty, who was received on the 9th of August, 1837. He stated, that on the 29th of May j)re- viously, a loaded waggon had passed over his arm and produced a simple fracture, which was dressed by a neighbour, with three board splints fastened tightly by a bandage around the injured part only. On the second day after its application, in consequence of vio- lent pain at the seat of fracture, and great swelling of the hand and fore-arm, a physician was brought to him from a distance of many miles, who removed the dressings. Upon removal, the soft parts at the anterior and inner side of the arm were found to be mor- tified, and in twelve or fourteen days afterward, separated, and left the bone projecting some two or three inches. He suffered during this time from severe inflammation of the arm, accompanied by fever and a profuse discharge of pus ; and after recovering in a measure his strength, he set off on foot for Philadelphia, where he arrived the evening before entering the hospital. The seat of fracture was found to be just below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and the inferior fragment protruded through an opening only large enough to admit of its passage. Ihe end of this flag- ment was ot a yellowish white colour, and deprived of periosteum for the space of an inch or more, and not loose. No bony union had taken place. There was a small dis- charge of pus from the part, and no pain was experienced on handling and examining it. A good deal of hardening existed at the point of fracture, but it aiipearcd to be rather from thickening of the different tissues, than from a deposit of callus. His general health was good. On the 30th of September the pro- jecting portion of the bone was found to be loose, and was removed ; after which the ■ W'ound soon closed, and union begun to take place. By the 1st of November union was-, perfectly firm. “ 4th, The interposition of foreign bodies be- - tween the fragments has been generally stated among the causes which may retard union Portions of bone which are complete!} detached, bullets or other foreign substances-, sometimes remain between the extremities-, and by keeping up profuse and long continuedii suppuration, so debilitate the system as tc > prevent the formation of callus, and give rist- to this state. Rossi (These sur les Resec-- tions, by M.Roux) notices a case of un-unitedu fracture of the humerus, amputated by hiniii after the resection of the extremities had: been unsuccessfully resorted to, in which the- cause of non-union w'as found to be a balLl contained in the medullary canal a little'' above the false joint.” Fairly stated, how- ever, the pseudarthrosis can hardly be said, to depend permanently on the intervention of ! foreign bodies. Necrotic portions finally, become separated ; an intermediate fragment- which retains its vitality is only a source of: some delay, as it renders fixed coaptation somewhat more difficult. A foreign body w'ell compressed between the two fractured ends must be an incessant cause of excite^- ment. In the absence of pressure the sub-*- sidence of the primary inflammation may- remove the irritating effects of the foreign: body, by giving it a covering of dense fibrous- structure. A remarkable instance in which this happened after fracture of the femur is- reported by M. Vogelvanger (Gaz. Medi- cale, p. 445, 1838). Two years after the accident the patient died, and M. V. found a, piece of iron thirty-five lines in length, and five in breadth, completely surrounded by a, deposit of callus. “ Slips of muscle, or tendinous matter inter- posed between the fragments, has also been; stated as one of the causes of want of union. That in some instances these parts are found lying between the fractured extremities there- is no doubt, but that it ever proves in itself a, cause of non-union, I am not disposed to admit. In all of the instances in which I find it mentioned as having existed, it is also stated that the fracture has been oblique, and the fragments more or less separated from, each other When this state of things exists,- aiiy soft parts in the neighbourhood of the- fracture are necessarily forced into the space- between the bones, and so remain until a pro- per position is given to the liinb and the Irag- ments jicrfectly reduced ; and where from- the size of the intervening part this cannot be at once done, the mere continued pressure of the ends of the bone would in a very short time, if projicrly adjusted, either cause its absorption, or else cause it to take on the ossi- fic action. The interposition of any soft parts between the ends of a fractured hone is justly regarded by Mr. Key (Loud. Med. Gaz. iv.81 FRACTURE. p. 2G4) as a mere excuse for tlie occurrence of noii-uuion. ‘It is the tiuty of the sur- geon,’ he observes, ‘ when he examines into the nature of the accident, and places the limb in splints, to ascertain that the fractured ends grate together ; and if muscle is inter- posed, to make extension in order to disen- gage the broken extremity.’ The case men- tioned in the Dictionary of Cooper, on the authority of Sir James Earle, is often quoted to show the possibility of muscular substance forming an impediment to the union after fractures. He says, ‘ I have seen a woman, under Sir James Earle, in the above hos- pital (St. Bartholomew’s), whose os brachii did not unite, though it had been broken several months. Every attempt to move the bone occasioned excruciating torture. The woman died of some illness in the hospital; and, on dissecting the arm, the cause ol the fracture not having united was found to arise from the upper, sharp pointed extremity of the lower portion of the broken bone having been forcibly drawn up by the muscles, and penetrated the substance of the biceps, in which it still remained.’ From this it is clearly evident that the fracture was oblique, and the fragments much displaced ; and this want of apposition in the fragments is surely alone a sufficient cause for the non-union, without seeking for it in the interposition of muscular fibres between the fragments. Be- sides, it is well ascertained that muscle, as well as all the other parts surrounding a frac- tured bone, contribute more or less to the formation of the callus. An interesting pre- paration going to support this view, and much to the point in this particular matter, is men- tioned in the Dictionnaire de Medecine (xiii. art. Fract. 2nd ed.) as having been presented to the Anatomical Society of Paris, in which the fragments of a clavicle, separated to the extent of an inch by the subclavian muscle, were united together very solidly by two bridges of newly-formed bone, in the centre of which the muscle, itself ossified, was impri- soned. “ 5th. Tight bandaging. That a tight bandage may prevent the restorative process from taking place there can be no doubt. Duver- ney (Diseases of the Bones, trans. by Ing- ham, p. 171, 1762) thinks, nothing in simple fractures so much opposes the formation of callus as a too tight bandage. Pare (Works, trans. by Johnston, p. .379, 1649), and Wise- man (Chirurgical Treatises, ii. p. 256, 5th ed. Lond. 1719), also caution us in regard to its employment. Sir B. Brodie exj)lains its modus operandi, by 8up|)osing that the frac- ture does not receive a sufficient quantity of blood to allow the process to go on ; M. Malgaigne attributes it to the pressure preventing the deposit of the provisional callus. In support of the view of the latter it may be remarked, that Trqja long since satisfied himself by experiment, that moderate compression in no way interferes with the process of reunion after fractures, but showed that a bandage tightly apj)lied, without, nevertheless, being so much drawn as to cause any serious accident, prevented the formation of the provisional callus and its consequent consolidation. “6th. The long continued use of cooling applications, by keeping down vascular action in the fractured part, is ordinarily given as one cause of tardy union. These applica- tions should never be continued after the subsidence of the acute inflammatory symp- toms. By Mr. Amesbury, diminished action from the too long continuance of sedative or cooling lotions, is regarded as a frequent cause of tard}"- union (Op. citat. p. 198). Dupuytren regards them in the same light. “ 7th. The too early use of a fractured limb sometimes causes absorption of the callus to such an extent as to permit of motion in the part; and if in such instances the moving about is continued, the friction kept up between the ends of the bone causes them to become rounded, at the same time that the surrounding tissues become thickened, and form a false joint.” This is in point of fact what we have explained before,—the conver- sion of soft callus into ligament by the influence of motion and extension. The same in effect occurs in the reunion of tendons, ligaments, and muscles, and also of several bones. Some observations, lately made by MM. Berard and Gueretin, might seem to show that the supply of blood to the bone exer- cises an important influence on the period at w'hich the epiphyses become united by bone to the shaft, and on the frequency of the occurrence of false joints in par- ticular parts of the bone ;—that the epi- physis towards which the principal nutri- tious artery of the bone runs, coalesces sooner with the shaft, than the other epiphysis ; and that false joints are of less frequent occurrence in the part of the shaft between the opening of the canal for the nutritious artery, and the extremity of the bone towards which the canal runs, than in the other part of the shaft. Thus, in the humerus, the opening for the nutritious artery is situated in the middle of the length of the bone, and the canal that lodges the vessel runs towards the condyles. The inferior epiphyses, con- stituting the condyles,—the pulley’ that arti- culates with the ulna, and usually the lesser head that articulates with the radius, co- alesce at an earlier period with the shaft, than those that form the head of the bone and its greater and lesser tuberosities. Aware of these facts, M. Gueretin (Presse Mcdi- cale, i. p. 45) was led to examine into the influence which the direction of the nutri- tious artery exerts upon the consolidation of fractures ; and ho has asserted, that un-united fractures are most common in the points opposite to the direction of the nutritious artery. Ileic IS, however, aii instance of inisajDpIied82 FRACTURE. statistics. By the tables of M. Gueretin and Dr. Norris* it is proved that In 26 cases non-union occurred in the humerus ; 13 times above, and 13 below the entrance of the nutritious artery. In 21 cases, non-union occurred in the fe- mur ; 10 times above, and 11 below. In 12 cases, non-union occurred in the fore- arm ; 2 above, and 10 below. In 17 cases, non-union occurred in the leg; 5 times above, and 12 below. It appears, therefore, that M. Gueretin's opinion is set aside as regards the humerus and the femur, while, with respect to the fore- arm and leg, the proportion of cases of non- union, in the different parts of each, does not materially vary from what we should expect from the proportions of ordinary fractures in the same parts ; and as these gentlemen together have collected and compared se- venty-six observations, the question may be regarded as settled The statement, that a fracture separating part of a shaft from the chief medullary artery may induce atrophy of the isolated portion, seems to me still to require new and very careful proof. The able author of this opinion, Mr. B. Curling (see the 20th vol. of the Med. Chir. Transactions) founds it upon a considerable number of specimens, the majo- rity of which I have taken pains to examine, (indeed all that are in the museums of Guy’s and St. Thomas’s Hospitals,) but I have not found any satisfactory grounds for his conclu- sion. The examples are not without appear- ances of atrophy, but they suggest difficulties and objections in the way of arriving at such a conclusion, which will not be readily sur- mounted. The appearance of atrophy has presented itself to me much more evidently without the existence of the supposed cause, and particularly in the parts reported to be most often and evidently affected by that cause, namely, in the lower end of the tibia and femur, and in the upper end of the hume- • M. Gueretin gives an analysis of thirty-five cases, which is much more favourable to his own view than a similar account of fortj'-one cases by Dr. Norris, whom, on the whole, we must suppose to be the more unbiassetl narrator. One discrci>ancy between these gentlemen is very striking. M. Gueretin describes four false joints in the upper third of the tibia, and only two below it; Dr. Norris one in the upper third, and ten below it; which last is certainly tlie most consistent with what I have seen, and with what the common site of fracture in this bone should lead us to expect. , • u • • 2 The view concerning the epiphyses, which origi- nated with M. Berard ( Archives Gendrales, xxxvii. p. 176. 1835) is too limited as evidence of a ctinse. The late rcconsolidation ot the epiphyses of the kneeand caput humeri may admit of other e.xplanations. If the activity of nutrition and growth is determined in pait bv the stress or tension which organs endure, we may well suppose that the hroailer articular surfaces, not supporting such gi-eat or concentrated pressure as the narrower joints, will not evince the most rapid ad- vances towards maturity. The superior cpiphvsis or the tibia, however, is commenced and consolidated before the lower, according to my own recent obsei- vatioiis. rus, and indeed, more or less, in the ends of all long bones. The following are some evident sources of error :—An unequal obli- quity of the section in different parts of the iin-uniteil bones.—The result of deformed union leading to increased and decreased strain on particular parts, and, consequently, to pro- portionate hypertrophy and atrophy in cor- responding parts.—The anastomosis of arte-- ries, which are ever ready to transmit blood to capillaries, whose normal source of supply is obstructed, simply for the reason that, the latter being empty, they become more ready to dilate.—The chief arteries and veins of the epiphysis are, in the main, independent of; those of the shaft, and must furnish assistance w'hen the supply of the latter is cut off.—The common cause of atrophy, next to a general! defect of osseous material in the blood, seems- to be hypertrophy of the soft tissues within i bones, but this, while it induces absorption! and irregular expansion, is attended with some fresh external deposition of bone. The following, also, I consider to be material 1 objections to the theory in question :—The shaft grows mainly by external depositions,. and these are proportionate to the stress im- posed on the part, and to the disposition it' may have to yield to an undue strain in whole, or in part. The natural excavation of the shaft is am advancing process through life, little andi rarely interrupted (perhaps never beyond the ’ middle age) by internal ossification. There does not seem to be any notable defect of' new ossification on the broken part, which is- cut oft' from its medullary artery. It is useful to remark, that the tibia, which’, seems to be the most frequently broken of all 1 the bones of the body, and the most liable to' comminution, open fracture, and the conse-- quent exfoliations, is comparatively free from failure of consolidation, and also that deficientt union, when ft occurs in this bone, is most! amenable to treatment. It may be asserted, independently of our tables, that after severe open fractures of the tibia, the reunion is often; tardy ; but, on the other hand, it is very near- the truth, that, finally, union never fails to be effected, so that a genuine false joint is never: established. Such examples as fig. 35 can-- not be viewed as false joints in a surgical sense, for reasons which are self-evident. Without reference to other kinds of cure, the breadth of the tibia, its superficial site, and the facilities afforded for regulating the opposi- tion of its fragments, sufficiently explain the rarity of non-union ; and these considers-- tions strongly indicate the effects which are ■ to be expected from the existence of opposite circumstances in other bones. Referring to the tables which exhibit the ■ pro])ortional frequency with which fractures- take place in the cylindrical bones, we dis-- cover that a false joint is more likely to suc-- ceed to a fracture of the fore-arm, or of the humerus, than to that of any other longFRACTURE. 8^ l)one, and that non-iinion results with greater proportionate frequency in the thigli, than the leg. We cannot but compare the false joint of the ulna occurring after fracture, just above the attachment of the pronator quadratus.with the ligamentous union of the broken coronoid process of the ulna, and with that of the pa- tella when fractured transversely. A review of the natural process of reunion of bone, as already detailed, and the consi- deration of the constitutional and local causes which occasionally prevent or counteract the repair of a fracture, do not, I think, leave much to be desired in the way of practical knowledge, although it will be very desirable for the surgeon to distinguish the influences which are to be combated, as well as to dis- cern the indications of what may favour re- union in any particular case. There are the strongest grounds for concluding that general states of debility chiefly impede, whilst vigor- ous health favours repair. The effects of many diseases, of pregnancy, suckling, diets, and a hard campaign,have also been fairly established, and all objections to these are but very par- tial arguments. On the other hand, the sa- lutary agency of tonic measures is, generally speaking, certain. It is true that open and I long suppurating fracture does not prevent final reunion ; but if, having endured so much, the patient regains strength, we cannot ac- cuse his constitution of being defective, though ossific union should be wanting. So old age is in a manner a proof of vigour. Again, liga- mentous union is a peculiar defect, but also in a minor degree a peculiarity in excess. Of all the local obstructions to reunion, the most constant and palpable is deficient ossifi- cation, and next to this is defective coapta- tion. Sir B. Brodie states that he has often endeavoured to prevent the union of fractures in animals by repeatedly moving the parts, but without success ; and indeed, as I have frequently seen, the ossification has been aug- mented, until the new mass almost precludes motion. This fact has been already in part explained; but how can the obstructive opera- tion of motion, which we know sometimes takes place, be explained? Does motion ever arrest inflammation, or even retard it ? Every degree and kind of re]>air betokens sotne in- flammation or additional nutrition; and the ligamenlom union, which is by far the most common, is both a proof of increased nutrition, and of nutrition excited by motion and ten- sion (pressure, extension, &c.); for ligament is never produced without tension, is always formed in some proportion to the tensions which act upon it, and declines, in the course of weeks, as tension is removed from it. From all that I have been able to learn from personal examination of many specimens of non-union of broken long bones, and of many others, I should set it down as certain, that where there is not much displacement, no causes are adequate to prevent reunion, cx- I cejit those which prevent the formation of new bone. I do not mean that no new bone is formed, for usually each fragment is scantily or partially encrusted with new ossi- fication ; but I mean that deficiency is always apparent, and sometimes a total absence of new bone, or even great atrophy of the old. When a moderate quantity of new bone roughens the un-united fragments, it would seem that the prevalence of ligament is a material impediment, and the want of appo- sition and attrition, which are causes of in- flammation, are conducive in a secondary degree to the imperfection of repair. It has been already shown that a fracture is, every now and then, followed by excessive inflammation, and abnormal effusions of fluids, or solids ; and it is equally certain, on the other hand, that the inflammatory results may not be excited or kept up to the degree neces- sary forthe due consolidation of the fragments. An instance of un-united fracture is men- tioned by Mr. Samuel Cooper (Dictionary, Ed. 1838, p. 551), which occurred in a strong and robust man, whose chief peculiarity seemed to be his indifference to pain, where the ends of the humerus w’ere cut down to, turned out, and sawn off by Mr. Long, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and the limb was afterwards put in splints, and taken the greatest care of; but no union followed. He also notices another case of a broken tibia and fibula, occurring in a subject who w'as a com- plete instance of hypochondriasis, which re- mained disunited for about four months ; but afterwards grew together. M. Sanson (Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. iii. p. 494) cites three cases of fractures, one of the leg and tw'o of the thigh, that required from five to ten months of treatment before union was perfect; and two cases of false joints in the thigh, in which it was impossible to attribute this state of things to any appreciable cause. Latta states, that he had met with three instances of fractures purely transverse, in which, notwithstanding all the care that could be taken, no callus w'as formed (System of Surgery, iii. p. 362). Ruysch and Van Sw’ieten have reported several like fiicts, and other cases might readily be brought forward. Writers, of good ex|)erience, have been too forward in imputing pseudarthrosis to motion, or neglect. A thousand cases of fracture were treated in the Pennsylvania hos- pital, and no case of non-union occurred amongst them during a period of )en years ; but thirteen examjjles were brought in for treatment. Notwithstanding this. Dr. Norris, who records these facts, justly remains in doubt concerning the mischievous effects of motion in the majority of cases. He knew that, by common reckoning, a thousand cases of fracture need not j)roducc one of non- union (in long bones), and he knew too well the arguments against the mischief of motion, to (latter himself and condemn others on such feeble grounds. It is observable, that fractures of the ribs and clavicle are peculiarly liable to con-FRACTURE. 8t tinued motion during their repair, which however, is very rarely defective, but often excessive ; and it is remarkable that the cra- nium, devoid of motion, can scarcely fill up a fissure. The complete circular division of the peri- osteum at a fractured part may well be a cause of non-union, since the persistence of bands uniting the fragments, well placed and duly organized, as well as stretched and irri- tated, can scarcely fail to facilitate, expedite, and increase bony union. Next to the complete division of periosteum, we may regard the absence or deficiency of periosteum as a local cause of non-union of fractures. When the neck of the femur is divided, the head is more or less completely deprived of nutrition and the means of reparation, ac- cording to the age of the individual, the pre- cise site of the line of reparation, and the per- sistence of periosteal bands reaching to the severed head. Here the possibility of bony union is still problematical ; a good ligament- ous union is rare ; a new synovial joint is sometimes formed, but commonly the cavity presents denuded surfaces of bone rubbing together. Fracture of cancellated bone is never re- paired so firmly as that of the solid shafts, and the reasons are various. The bony shell, in the former case, is extremely thin, and its nutrient periosteum is but proportionably supplied, and only proportionably capable of activity. It is true that the columnar tissue within is capable of some repair, but this is always scanty, and most of all after the period of growth has ceased. Cartilaginous surfaces are devoid of perios- teum, or at least of all the active functions of such a membrane ; yet the cartilaginous face of the patella seems to perform an efficient part in the ligamentous reunion which fol- lows transverse fracture of the bone. In the patella, the deficiency of periosteum posteriorly, and the scantiness of solid shell and commensurate periosteum anteriorly, as well as the wide separation and oblique or angular displacement of the fragments, suffi- ciently explain the great rarity * of bony union, when the bone is divided transversely, and the scanty ossification of the part under all disturbing circumstances ; but the peculiar inertness of cancellated bone is here equally remarkable. The ligamentous union, after fracture, of the acromion and coracoid processes of the sca])ula ; and of the neck, and even of the body of the lower jaw, as well as of some other parts, may seem justly attributable to a want ot pro- per contact during the repair ; but still the prevalence of spongy tissue in particular parts should not be disregarded. Both these cir- cumstances, and also the influence of repeated ' See an account of a patella broken transversely, anil reunited by bone, by T. VV. King, in No. xiii. of Ciiiy’s Hospital Reports. Fig. 3.0. Diagrams sltmoing sections of ligamentous union \ broken patellae. The continuity of ligament and art culur cartilage is evident. The original specimen are. in the museum at Guy's Hospital. They ind cate that the common effect of treatment is to press tr\ articular surfaces of the fragments toicards eat. other, and to separate the anterior edges of the broki-f surfaces, a. a. articular surfaces. movements, wdll have different proportions <c influence, in almost every variety of cases i pseudarthrosis. The scanty repair of fractures of the skul and the still more marked deficiency of ossifii cation when a portion of the calvaria is los>l do not require specific explanations. F. growing bones, with active organization, th' reparations even here are very considerable' and in other cases, where there is adequati’ periosteal excitement, various and sometime.' large quantities of adventitious bone are pro diiced,—as in the varieties of exostosis, wh(' ther within or without the skull. With rc' spect to the repairing functions, the want c motion and contact are strikingly evident; an i in such a case as that of the opening produce-' by the trephine, it is apparent that the ci i edges of the bone become coated with per i osteum, (as the end of a stump in amputatior or an isolated point in fracture,} and then, i. once, all source of excitement or cause < inflammation declining, (if the bones hav ceased to grow,) the changes become anij logons to those of a disused stump. The symptoms of non-union in general ma be said to force themselves ujion the surgeon attention. The history of a fracture and iir treatment, together with the flexibility of th part, and its comparatively useless and feebl condition, will scarcely admit of a miscoi ception. The examination of the part wi speedily set suspicion at rest; but it is of coi siderable consequence that the state of th new articulation should be determined, as fr as circumstances will admit, in order tojudg. of the most desirable plans of treatment. Th duration of the false joint, the sensibility ( the part, as indicative of the disposition t85 FRACTURE. inHammatlon, tlio quantify and solidity of the uniting matters, and the thickness of the broken ends, may all serve as material indi- cations of what is to be c.xpected and pro- moted. The same applies to the degree in which the ends overlap each other, the extent and variety of their motions, and the presence or absence of perceptible grating when the parts are moved, which precludes the suppo- sition of mere ligamentous union. There are a few cases of ligamentous union, as in the ends of long hones, which are so undistin- guishable during life as to require no notice in this place. The treatment of fake joints will be satisfac- tory in proportion as we are able to distin- guish the conditions and desiderata of each particular case. Sometimes, the injurj' hav- ing been inflicted but recently, the treatment having been irregular, the health of the patient interrupted, or some other incident, induces us to regard the case as merely one of tardy union. Under these circumstanees we must, of course, re-apply the splints, &c. with the greatest care, and use every precaution to keep the fragments in a state of close coapta- tion. In many cases these measures will suc- ceed ; but in some, after a persevering trial of them, we shall find that no progress towards consolidation has been made, and that a false joint has been formed at the fracture. When this occurrence takes place in the upper extre- mity, the usefulness of the member is seri- ously impaired ; but the evil must obviously be of far greater magnitude, when the false joint forms in the lower extremity. “ Cases * of pseudarthrosis sometimes occur which occasion so little inconvenience as scarcely to interfere with the use of the parts in which they may be situated ; and under such circumstances, it is more than doubtful whether any operative means should be recommended for their cure. In the Nou- velles de la Republique dcs Lettres, of Bayle, a case is recorded by Sylvestre, in which an ununited fracture of the fore-arm, four inches above the wrist, in no way prevented good use of the limb. Kuhnho'ltz (Journ. Com- plementaire, iii.) has given an instance in which an ununited fracture, situated in the thigh, interfered but little with the use of the limb. MM. Sanson (Velpeau, Mcdecine Opc- ratoirc, i. p. 599, ed. 1839) and Yvan (Ar- chives Gen. do Med. xix. p. (519) have seen like cases. A patient came under the notice of _M. Cloquet (Archives Gen. de Med. xix.), in whom the upper fourth of the humerus had been lost, without in any way interfering with the motions of the arm. M. Velpeau (Gorr6, These, No. 218, 1835,) noticed some years since, at La Pitie, a man with an ununited fracture of the clavicle, in whom all the ' W c arc again rompellod to make nac of iho rc.acardics of Dr. Norris; as forming tlu- best founila- tion williin onr rcacli, for somewliat more extended and defined vicw.s of the nature and treatment of false joints. movements of the arm were executed without difficulty. M. Gras (.Tourn. do Med. ChiT. and Pharm. in forty vols. viii.) gives an instance of an ununited fracture of both bones of the fore-arm, at the inferior part, from gun- shot, wdiich gave so little inconvenience that no operation was attempted. Horeau (Journ. de Med. Chir. and Pharm. x.) has furnished a case situated in the lower jaw, in which, although mastication was somewhat affected, yet w'as so little annoying, that the patient was not willing to undergo any treatment for it. Mr. Syme (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. July, 1835) has seen want of consolidation in the humerus and fore-arm, where the fracture was transverse, accompanied with very little inconvenience. I have myself seen a young Irish woman wdth an ununited fracture of the clavicle, in which, although great motion existed betw'een the fragments, so little incon- venience was experienced, that it was not judged proper to resort to any treatment for it ; and in 1839 a case of fiilse joint in the radius, two and a half inches above the wrist, came under my notice, where the patient enjoyed excellent use of the member, and notwithstanding some deformity, was able to work at his trade (that of a tailor), as well as if no accident had happened. “ Even in cases where the want of bony union in fractures does not permit the patient to make use of the limb, we often find that, by the employment of simple means, the defect may be rendered supportable. M. Troschel (Journ. des Progres, x. p. 257) mentions three instances in which, by the application of tin splints fitted to the limbs, the persons wore enabled to walk without difficulty. Monteggia (iv. p. 28.) relates the case of a monk in whom existed a non-conso- lidated fracture of the middle of the fore- arm, and who, by means of an appropriate ajiparatus, could make use of it for all ordi- nary purposes. M. Velpeau (Op. citat. ii. p. 582) examined an ununited fracture of the thigh in a female, who, with the aid of a clumsy apparatus, continued to make good use of her limb. Delpech (Diet, dcs Sci. Mcdi- cales, iii. art. Cal) has seen a workman with a non-e.onsolidated fracture of the femur, who, b}”^ means of a case for the thigh, was enabled to pursue his usual cm])loymcnts. Mr. Lin- ton (Lond. Med. Repository, Feb. 182J, p. 93.) furnishes the case of an Arab Sheik, affected with a fracture of the right humerus, accompanied with great loss of bone, that had never united, in which a circular silver tuhc!, six and a half inches in length, was worn with case, and permitted him to do good service with his sword. Dr. Betton, of Germantown, mentioned to me an instance which came under his notice, in which no union hail occurred after a fracture of the humerus, where a ]msteboard s|)liut, made so as to sur- round the arm, was worn with such good effect as to allovv the man to ajiply himself to his usual employment. In his retrosjioctive address in surgery, delivered at Liver|)ool, in G86 FRACTURE. 1839 (Provin. Med. and Surg. Trans., viii.), Mr. James mentions, that having failed in obtaining union of the bones of the upper arm by excision of their ends, in a case where a scton could not have been passed, he had recourse to an external apparatus, which appeared to answer the purpose of giving stability to the limb so well, that he “should feel very reluctant to undertake a severe ope- ration again for this defect, unless on further trial the apparatus was not found to succeed.” Lan-ey (Clin. Chirurg. iii. p. 461) even goes so far as to recommend in all cases of frac- ture, M’here the usual means are insufficient to effect consolidation, that they be left to nature. The patients, he says, accustom themselves to this infirmity, of which the effects diminish with time and exercise, and they finish by being able to use the affected limb with the aid of a pasteboard splint to envelope it : three cases of patients are re- lated by him, all of whom, despite the exist- ence of false articulations in the arm, were able to perform the ordinary duties of soldiers. More lately, the same surgeon has exhibited to the Academy of Surgery (Diet, de Mede- cine, xiii. p. 482, 2nd edit.) an invalid affected with a disunited fracture of the femur in its middle, of several years standing, where, although the member was shortened, and the fragments very moveable, the patient by means of a high-heeled shoe made use of his limb without the aid of crutches. Instances have occuri-ed in the leg, where, one of the bones only being broken and remaining disunited, the other has become enlarged to such a degree as to support well the whole weight of the body. A very remarkable example of this sort, in which the tibia remained un- united, while the fibula, which had remained perfect, increased exceedingly in size, and performed the office of the tibia in support- ing the body, is mentioned by Mr. South (in the English translation of Otto’s Patholo- gical Anatomy, p. 224), as having been in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital ; and Sir Astley Cooper, in his work on Fractures and Luxations, figures a case of a similar kind.” (Vide fig. 307.) Such instances are rare. It happens, however, that few examples of false joint occurring in the chief cylindrical bones, fail to become burdensome; and some even excite a spontaneous request from the ])atient, to have the limb amputated, when all hope of consolidation is lost. The urgency of the case and its difficulties now call for the utmost care in deliberating on the measures most likely to restore the j)Owers of the limb. The following case will serve to demon- strate the untractable characters of certain cases, or at least the great need of sedulous attention, in order to obviate imj)ediments and to insure success. It occurred in the practice of an eminent hospital surgeon. “ Henry lldred, aged 25, a stout mus- cular man, by trade a butcher, vvho had never had sy|)hilis nor taken mercury, and in fact never remembered a day’s illness, broke his left humerus about its lower third, on the 4th of November, 1839. The limb was at once put up in splints and bandages, which were removed and readjusted every other day for the first fortnight; and after this, once a week for six weeks ; during which time he could occasionally distinctly feel the ends of the bone rub against each other. At the expiration of this time the bones were still ununited, and all treatment was abandoned for four weeks more. “ He then consulted another surgeon, who secured the limb in splints, and kept him in bed for a month, but without avail. “ He next went to Ramsgate, and bathed i for six weeks; but this being equally ineffi-- cacious, he returned to London in July, 1840.. “ Every means that held out any pros-- pect of producing union were made use of, but were all equally unattended with be-- nefit. After the ordinary methods of perfect: apposition, rest, pressure, &c. had met with; failure, Mr. — cut down to the separated; portions of bone, and attempted, by placing- wire around their extremities, to excite peri-- osteal inflammation, and so to lead to the desired union. This not succeeding, Mr. — again divided down to the line of fracture,, and having exposed the surfaces of the dis-- joined portions of bone, removed a thin layer- from each b}’- means of a fine saw. On this; occasion a portion of substance having a car-- tilaginous appearance, apparently muscular tissue, which had become altered by pressure,. was found separating the two extremities of: the bone, and was removed. This operation. having proved unsuccessful, notwithstanding: a considerable degree of inflammation was- excited, as a dernier resort, a seton was passed: between the separated surfaces. This, how-- ever, failed equally with the other attempts- in producing union, and the man left unre-- lieved. At one period in the course of the treatment above mentioned, he was subjected: to the influence of mercury, until salivation was produced, but apparently without pro-- ducinar any effect on the fractured ends of the boneh” It must be manifest that the management of; such cases as the above, few as they happily are in number, is ot serious importance, and all the means of relief now require to be reviewed. Friction.—A very ancient method of treat-- ment consists in laying hold of each of die two fragments and rubbing them rudely against one another, for the purpose ot exciting inflam-- mation around them. This method,described, by Cclsus, has been often employed, and with occasional success, from his time to the pre-- sent day. The practice recommended bv Mr. Hunter, when the false joint is in the lower extremity, of putting the limb up carefully iu splints, and allowing the patient to walk on > Sco Appendix to tlie last edition of Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Eructures.FRACTURE. 87 crutches, while lie lets his weight bear some- what on the fractured limb, is a modification of this method. The exercise thus afforded may so improve the general health of the patient, as materially to add to the chances of the suecessful issue of the treatment. In the Richmond Hospital, cases of un- united fracture have of late years been of unfrequent oecurrence. In the last six years I have myself had but one case. The frac- ture had taken place in the humerus, and, although the case was not very promising-, the patient being an elderly man, and not of a vigorous constitution, I succeeded, by freely rubbing the fragments together and ban- daging firmly, in procuring consolidation. Dr. Hutton has lately treated a case in the same manner with success. The various methods of treatment that have been at different times adopted for the cure of false joints, all include this common principle,—the excitement at the seat of the fracture, of a certain degree of inflammatory action, that may originate the series of changes necessary for the secretion of defini- tive callus to unite the fragments together. The absorption of intervening soft tissue is almost an equally necessary, or constant, part of the reunion. It is commonly asserted, that a state of perfect rest is indispensable to the proper and speedy union of fractured bones; and the current opinion of surgeons seems to be, that as soon as the necessary inflamma- tion has been excited in a false joint by fric- tions, the most fixed position of the limb should immediately be secured. The truth, however, appears to be, that it is very difficult to induce sufficient inflammation, and, there- fore, still more difficult, surgically speaking, to produce too much. The student who may hesitate to acknow- ledge the unfavorable influence of rest, and the important use of compression, as here maintained, will do well to weigh in his mind the several ideas of fracture in a mean, a minor, and an excessive state of inflamma- tion, when an easy posture and repose of f>arts must have very different kinds of in- fluence ; and, on the other hand, cases of non- union, in which little or no bone is formed, and in which great or small quantities of dense membrane arc interposed between the fragments, and where active absorption and inflammation can alone be of any avail. It is somewhat curious that it has occurred to but few surgeons, amidst all the reflections devoted to the subject of splints and contri- vances for keeping broken limbs motionless, that it might be possible to do too much, and so to prevent salutary, or reparative inflam- mation, and ossific deposit. Kluge permits his ))aticnts to use the lind) when first union threat- ens to be tardy ; and when inflammation is thus excited, he re-applies the means of fixing the parts. He finds that speedy success at- tends this practice ; but we cannot imagine that such a plan is to be employed without precau- tion to secure the patient against acciclents. In the Hunterian Museum are several spe- cimens of false joints (synovial and ligamen- tous) from the extremities of monkeys, ro- dents, and birds. The quantity of ossification on each broken end in those cases is generally considerable, and sometimes great. Mr. Hunter imputed the non-union in these cases to the unrestrained motion of the limb; I conceive, that motion first augments ossific inflammation, and then retards union, having also a decided influence on the character of the new joint; and that something more than this assigned cause is essential to determine the arrest and decline of ossification ; for in- stance, the feeble health of a wild animal in confinement, or the want of food which a broken limb would ensure to it in a state of nature. I have fully explained how it may happen that a mass of soft callus becomes converted by motion and tension into a ligamentous tissue; but the form-ation of a synovial cap- sule may require an additional reflexion. While the soft callus is defective, and the apposed ends or surfaces of bone are more or less imperfectly nourished, the existence of a cavity (the original cell of the frac- ture), is maintained by the presence of un- organized but unirritating matter (fluid or solid) ; and at the same time, deficient inflam- mation, and possibly some occasional motion, are causes of the persistence of the articular cell. Finally, free motion serves to stimu- late the development of the new capsule, and to render the adventitious articular surfaces more defined and permanent. As shown in the table, friction of the ends of the fragments was employed eleven times, with success, in the course of a few weeks or a few months ; and, in most of the cases, the false joint had existed for about six months previously, and involved the femur, tibia, or humerus. The same method of treatment is shown to have failed about two-and-twenty times, under circumstances not very different from those of the cases in which it was found successful. One of the successful cases (No. G9), was seriously protracted by abscess. Compression requires to be considered in connexion with friction. As we found that the want of now bone and of due coaptation, and the prevalence of solid ligamentous matter, were the jn-iucipal causes of pseudarthrosis, so we may understand that forcible compres- sion of the solid points against each other must be a powerful means of exciting, first, the absorption of all intervening soft tissue, and, secondly, ossific inflammation. It is important to observe that, ligamentous union having commenced or being established, free motions of the limb, no doubt, induce an elongation of this uniting medium, and excite its nourishment; while the tendency to fresh ossification rather declines: and this mav I)o a cause of the greater frequency of non-union in the humerus and femur, in which all motion tends most powerfully to lengthen the soft band of union, and not to approximate theFRACTURE. 88 broken ends, whether they be opposed or placed side by side. To apply the solid parts of a false joint as close to each other as the case will admit, and so to retain them, will be found often efficient of itself, and almost invariably conducive to the success of supplementary measures ; but it must be ever remembered that the object is not mere rest. Rest is of no direct avail towards union, except when the growth of new bone is actually ready to solder the fragments. The motions which, like time, confirm a false joint of ligament or a new synovial cap- sule, are doubtless impediments to reunion ; and rest, which favours the atrophy of liga- ments or capsule, would predispose towards reunion in a passive manner ; but in this way it must equally favour the decline of ossi- fic inflammation, and even the atrophy of the bony fragments together. When the unnnited ends are opposed late- rallj% it would seem almost always practicable to press them firmly together by means of a tourniquet, which is both easily applied and regulated, or by any similar contrivance for making direct pressure. If much overlapping attends the non-union, some degree of extension may materially as- sist the other means of enforcing the close approximation of the fragments. By exten- sion, in such a case, the favourable influence of muscles is brought into operation, the tis- sues separating the disunited bones may be stretched, displaced, pressed upon, and ab- sorbed, and new surfaces are brought into contact ; and again, the broken ends, which are almost always expanded, more or less, by new bone, are thus most capable of being firmly bound together. In order to corroborate the statement, that defective ossification is often to be considered as a material and positive circumstance, it may not be amiss to remind the reader of those cases which are every now and then met with in post-mortem inspections,—where periostitis, instead of producing bone, leads to an irregular kind of absorption, with or with- out slight ossification, of the adjacent surface of bone. Hence we find bones worm-eaten superficially, without any attendant necrosis, though the ulceration of bone in the last and in the first case is the result of the same pro- cess, i. e. inflammatory softening, and then absorption. Of the cases in our table, 36 were treated by means of compression and rest, and 26 were cured ; viz. 9 of the femur, (4 not cured) ; 9 of the humerus (3 not cured) ; 7 of the leg ; and four of the fore-arm. “ The longest period,” says Dr. Norris, “ that the fracture liad existed in these cases, was 22 months (femur, act. 27)h Ihc shortest period was 4 weeks (iorc-arm, act. 12). llie average period was 5 months and 12 days. ' This case is not found in Hr. Noiris’ tabic. No. .'lO appears to have existed for tlie longest tunc ol all tiie cases treated by pressure. The longest period required for a cure was five months (humerus, set. 24). The average period was 9 weeks. The shortest period was 9 weeks. In the 36 cases, in which pres- sure and rest were employed, accidents de- pending upon the treatment, and not termi- nating in death, are stated to have occurred 4 times — severe pains and inflammation 3 times, and excoriations once. The arrangement of the solid parts of the false joint must be carefully considered, with respect to the position to which they arc to be restored, as I have already explained with reference to the cases in which the ends overlap each other. It ma)’’ even happen, that forcibly retaining the fragments at an angle with each other may serve to induce the requisite inflammation and absorption. Fig. 40. Fir;. 312. This is a vieiv of an old false joint of the humerus after maceration. We hare somervhat ot the ajypeara7ice of a. ball and socket., but the union uas- of solid ligamentous matter., and the surfaces are rough and ?iot polished. The cup on the ripper frag- ment is expanded by margined ossifications, and the circumference of the opposing surface presents ii te- gular cavstoses. These are the remains of the re- uniting callus, yet there has not been sufficient ossifi- cation to seal up the medullary tube in either fragment, the openings are seen partially contracted. The upjter portion is represented in an anterior view, the toicei is drawn as it appeared posteriorly, in order to gire thcasjiect of its summit, which had an obliipic surf ace presenting'itself bachcards and upwards. 'Ihe .gn-- cime.n is in the. museum at Ouy's Jlospital, <ai nu* obtained from the collection of the late Mr. J/oicsmp. The above figure is designed to show, thatFRACTURE. 89 simply keeping the parts in a more natural relation must tend to promote the compres- sion and absorption of some parts, and intiam- mation aiul thickening in others. These results would be increased by pressure. The observer may now understand also, that in a false joint with small deformity, partial ab- sorption and thickening may be excited by keeping up some degree of angular displace- ment ; the trial of which would at least do no harm until ossification is about to effect con- solidation. The employment of iodine has been declared to be a successful means of curing a false joint; and it seems possible, that by assist- ing the general health, it might assist a case of tard^ union. In the like manner, the use of mercury, as an internal remedy in a case of false joint, seems but little likely to excite ossific inflammation, or to prove advantageous by causing absorption. We can scarcely sup- pose any method by which a beneficial ope- ration can arise from it, unless it may be by the improvement of the general health. This method of cure for disunited frac- tures was employed successfully in 1830, by Sir Stephen Hammick. Speaking of the cure of these fractures, this author says, “ Mer- cury will frequently be required by pa- tients who never had any syphilitic taint, not only to act as an alterative, but even it will be necessarjf to push it to a considerable I extent before union of a fractured bone will take place.” (Lectures on Fracts., Amps., &c. ' p. 118.) Dr. Colles, of Dublin, has also seen cures take place in these cases by the admi- nistration of mercury ; and in an instance that he' wdtnessed at "Guy’s Hospital, in ] 836, under Mr. B. Cooper, w’hich had jjroved rebellious to other modes of treatment, (seton, frictions, and the immovable apparatus,) he suggested its trial to that gentleman. The following is an account of the case, as related by Mr. Bransby B. Cooper ;— “ Eliz. Gould’, aged 28, in August, 1835, broke her left humerus, about the junction of the upper with the middle third, through a fall from a cart. She was in good health at the time, and is naturally of a strong constitution. She immediately applied for professional ad- vice, had s])lints applied, and, from her account, was treated in the usual mariner. In about eight weeks the surgeon discovered that union had not taken place; he replaced the splints therefore more firmly than before, and bound the arm to the side, to prevent motion. This apjiaratus was worn for a month without being removed, at the expiration of which period the fracture was found still ununited. The apjiaratus was now ro-aj)|ilicd, with the addi- tion of an iron splint bent at an acute angle, and extending from the outer side of the humerus to the wrist. This was worn for another month, but with no bettor effect. A bandage was then tightly bound I’ound the arm, and a wooden sjilint ajijilicd over it, corn- ' Vide Guy’s Ilospitul Itcpoits, No. V. pressed to the utmost the jiatient could bear, for two months, when still it was found that no union had taken place. “ On March 9th, 1836, she was admitted under my care into Guy’s Hospital, when, upon examination, I found the two fractured extremities of the humerus in juxta-position, but without union, or any adventitious foi’ma- tion in the surrounding cellular membrane; the two jiortions of bone moved z’eadily ujion each other, and without producing anything approaching to the sensation of ci’epitus, giving rather the impression of an amphiarthrodial joint in motion. Impressed with the convic- tion that all mechanical means had been judi- ciously employed, I gave up all hopes of producing union by any further use of such means, and proposed a seton, which was im- mediately consented to by the patient, and was inserted between the extremities of the bone, about March 23rd. It was w'orn ten weeks, producing but very little constitutional irritation, or local effect; for on removing it, no ossific union had taken place. “ A bandage dipped in a composition of egg and flour was then firmly applied, and worm for six weeks. It was so applied (en- closing both the elbow and shoulder) as forcibly to press both extremities of the bone against each other, but without producing the desired effect. Plaster of Paris was next used as a means of maintaining perfect appo- sition and rest; it was worn a month, but when chiselled off, the arm was in statu quo. “ About this period Dr. Colles of Dublin went round with me, and said he had known such cases cured by the administration of mercury, continued until it produced ptyalism. This jzlan was adopted, but at the same time a leathern padded girth, furnished with several straps and buckles, was forcibly applied ai'ound the arm. In four days the mercury was obliged to be discontinued, from the violent effect on her mouth, but the girth w'as continued to be worm a month, when upon its removal the arm w'as found united. She remained, however, in the hospital two months longer to recruit her health, when she was discharged cured. “ Three months after this she was again admitted, fi-oin the fracture having been re- produced by a violent blow'; when upon exa- mination all the usual phenomena of common fracture presented themselves. The same girth W'as apjrlicd, and (without the use of mercury) the bone united at the usual pe- riod.” The following are the heads of a remarkable case that occuiTcd under the car-e of Mr. Adams about a year and a half ago. .lohn Ncilo, aged 26, was admitted into the Rich- mond Hosjrital five months after having broken the femur near the trochanters, by a fall from hrri-scback. Ho was treated at home for some days for contusion, and bad been in two hosjritals before ajrirlying for admission at the Richmond. At the time of his ad- mission the femur was cpiite moveable at theFRACTURE. <T) ])lace of the fracture, and the whole limb below it could be moved upwards and down- wards at least two inches. He was put on blue-pill, of which he took five grains three times a day, till his mouth was made sore; then on decoction of sarsaparilla; and lastly, on small doses of nitro-muriatic acid, with nourishing diet. A spica bandage was applied round the pelvis and upper part of the thigh ; and over this, the starched bandage, from the toes to the groin. The bandages were re- moved and renewed two or three times, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of the case. About two months after the mouth had been made sore, the consolidation of the fragments had manifestly made considerable ])rogress,—the limb at the fracture had ac- quired firmness, and it was no longer possible, by pressing the extended limb upwards, at the heel, with moderate force, to move the leg and lower fragment upwards, as formerly. About three months after his admission, the conso- lidation being sufficiently firm to admit of his leaving the hospital, he was advised to go into the country. In a case at the Middlesex Hospital of London, Mr. Arnott failed to effect a cure by mercury, and Mr. Charles Hawkins asserts, that he has seen mercury freely administered in three cases that had come under his obser- vation, without benefit. (Lancet, ii. 1839-40, p. 382.) “ Electricity has been employed with good effect by Mr. Birch, of London. One of the ])upils of this gentleman informed Dr. Ste- vens, of New' York, that he had seen two cases in which it produced the most happy effect. One of these cases was seated in the leg, and was of thirteen months’ standing. ‘ Shocks of electric fluid w'ere dail}’^ passed through the space between the ends of the bones, both in the direction of the length of the limb and that of its thickness. The man being somewhat weak, used bark and porter at the same time. The leg was retained in the ordinary fracture dressing. Improve- ment was verj' perceptible in two w'eeks, and in six weeks he left the hospital cured.’ (Transl. of Boyer by Stevens—note.) Two cases, on the other hand, have been reported by Dr. Mott, (Mod. and Surg. Reg. )iart 2. i. j). 375.) in which ‘ very powerful shocks of electricity were ))asscd in different directions through the part’ without benefit.” In cases in which callus is not being formed at the usual ])criod of consolidation. Sir B. Brodie recommends the application of blisters around the fracture ; and it is said within the first eight or ten weeks after the accident this measure may be attended with success. A little later it would be certainly quite inade- quate to j)rodiice the desired effect: indeed, it may not unreasonably be doubted, whether re-union was ever facilitated by such means. “ 'rtic application of caustic alkali lo the in- trgnnicnls over the scat of fracture. In 1805, Dr. liartshorne of this city (Eclectic Reper- tory, iii. p. 114, 1813) successfully employed this practice in a case of ununited fracture of the external condyle of the femur of four months’duration, and in 1811 he applied the same practice to a disunited humerus of about five months’ standing, with the effect of partially relieving the patient : in this last case the issue was three inches long and one wide. A third case occurring in the femur, about which he was consulted in 1838, w'as cured by the caustic, conjointly with pressure. (American Journ. of Med. Sciences for January, 1841, p. 143.) An eschar three inches long by one wide, made on the arm with the caustic potash, w'here the injury was of six months’ standing, proved ineffectual in a case which afterwards came under the care of Dr. Hays. (American Journ. of Med. Sciences for January, 1841, p. 141.) The actual cautery has also been employed in these cases.” As the application of blisters and moxa, these means are said to be parti- cularly adapted to instances of tardy union, and especially of bones seated superficially, as the tibia and ulna, and the condyles of the femur. On the whole, however, the reader will be but little induced to rely on these methods. As counter-irritants they can only avail under very peculiar circumstances, if under any ; as producing deflection, they must but very rarely be required; and as directly leading to periostitis they are far less advantageous than : other and less disorganizing agents. M. Pigne ^ states that M. Mayor has em- ployed the following method with good suc- cess :—Bending the false joint, in order to gain the most ready access to it, he thrust a large trochar into the space between the un- united bones, and thus introduced a canula which was left in for the space of eight hours, during which he several times introduced through the canula a metal sound as hot as boiling water. Inflammation followed ; the limb was put up in an immoveable apparatus, and at the end of three months the cure was complete. This may be com])ared to the use of half a seton, and it deserves especial atten- tion as involving the most powerful, yet very simple, means of destroying all obstructive membrane ; and of ensuring adequate inflam- mation, and even ossific union, provided that the constitution be not defective, and appo- sition and rest be duly attended to. The ingenious jwoposal of Dr. Physick, to pass a seton between the fragments, was put into execution by him with success in the early ]>art of the ])resent century. The ope- ration is performed in the following mannci. Two assistants take hold of the limb abo>c and below the fracture, and make extension and counter-extension for the purjiosc of sepa- rating the fragments. The surgeon then jiasscs a flat or round seton needle, arnici with a skein of silk, across the limb am through the fibrous tissue that unites * ' See “Fiiiifsc Articulations,” in the I'lcnch tram lation of C'hclius. >91 FRACTURE. fragments, of course directing the instrument so as to avoid wounding any large vessel or nerve. The limb is then to be put up in the same manner as a recent fracture. This me- thod often succeeds. When it fails, Professor Gibson, of Philadelphia, who first announced the American practice in Europe, considers the failure as usually attributable to the too early removal of the seton. “ In general, says Dr. Gibson, “ when the seton fails to procure reunion, there is reason to believe that it has not been continued a sufficient length of time. In 1806, I was present at an operation performed by the late Dr. _Phy- sick, upon the humerus of a woman i-esiding at Baltimore ; for some trivial reason, the physician under whose care the patient was left, removed the seton in two or three weeks, and no benefit of course resulted.” On the other hand, “ within the last seven years. Dr. Physick passed a seton between the ends of a disunited lower jaw, and the patient returned home. In a little time his attending physi- cian became anxious to remove the cord, un- der an idea that no union would take place ; the patient, however, had promised Dr. Phy- sick before his departure that no one except himself should take it out. It was therefore continued a few weeks longer, and, in the meantime, perfect bony re-union was estab- lished k” Sometimes a complete consolida- tion is brought about by the seton in ten or twelve weeks; often it requires a mueh longer time. Professor Gibson is of opinion, that four or five, and sometimes even twelve months should be allowed to elapse, before the seton is removed in despair of its ultimately effecting the consolidation of the fragments. For many years past, some of the surgeons of the Meath Hospital have adopted a modifica- tion of Dr. Physick’s method, which consists in passing the seton along, instead of through, the fibrous tissue uniting the fragments, and which they think less liable than Dr. Phy- sick’s method to excite dangerous inflamma- tion. Within the last few years, Mr. Rynd has operated according to this modification in that hospital with success, in several cases; of which he means shortly to lay an account before the profession. Many years ago I witnessed the treatment in the Richmond Hospital, by Mr. Carmi- chael, of a case of false joint in the hume- rus, by the seton. A few weeks after its introduction, the patient had a severe attack of erysipelas of the arm, which spread to the body and very nearly caused his death. The seton was withdrawn, and the treatment abandoned. The late Dr. M'Dowel treated a case of ununited fracture of the upper part of the femur with the seton, with conqilctc success. The man lives in the neighbour- hood of the hos[)ital, and may be now seen walking about with good use of the limb. ‘ Gibson, Institutes and Practice of Surgery, p. 311. Fig. 41. Fig. 313 rcjn'csents a false joint of the ulna just ahova the insertion of the pronator (juadratus. There has been but little defect of bony formation on the two ends of this bone, and the radius, which has been frac- tured in a situation nearly pccrcdlel, is become firmly united. The reunion of the broken ulna consists of a thin strong layer of solid ligamentous jd>res. It need scarcely he said that a seton passed through this liga- mentous matter woidd have had great infiuence in de- stroying the intermediate soft tisstie at the penetrated point, and have been very conducive, in all proba- bility, to ossific infiammation at the same spot. “ The seton is especially suited to those cases of preternatural joint which occur in the upper extremities, inferior maxilla, and clavicle, where the fragments can be placed in opposition. In the femur it has often failed ; Dr. Physick has tried it in three cases of artificial joint in this bone, without satis- factory results. The experience of Sir B. Brodie, as we have seen, is to the same eft’ect. The cause of failure in these cases is pro- bably owing to its inadequacy in the larger bones to excite a degree of inflammation suf- ficient to give rise to ossific action. One of the cases in which the seton failed in the hands of Dr. Physick, was that of an adult male who was admitted into the Pennsylvania Hospital, Fob. 17th, 1810, with an artificial joint of the femur following an oblique frac- ture of the bone just below the trochanter major. His accident had hujqiened eight months previously. On the 28th an incision down to the bone was made over the seat of the fracture, and a seton introduced. On the fourth day, fever and retention of urine fol- lowed, but soon disappeared. On the 20thFRACTURE. Dl ot April an extensive abscess formed in the thigh, and liis health had become in some degree impaired. On the fourth of July, on U[-count of the fever, diarrhoea, and debility of the patient, the seton was removed, having been allowed to remain four months and four days, without producing any bony union. (Penn. Hosp. Case-Rook, i. p. 108.) “ The situation of the fragments, their being widely separated, or placed in such a direc- tion that they cannot be readily kept in con- tact ; or the abundant deposit of callus about their extremities, may be obstacles, some- times insurmountable, to its use. The exist- ence of great malposition in the fragments will generally j)reclude its employment. Close ])roximity of the fracture to the main artery and nerve, or to an important joint, may also, at times, prevent a trial with the seton. Where the bone has been for years disunited, and the fracture is very loose, or presents irregular surfaces, the seton is entirely un- suited. In all other .cases, it should be pre- ferred to all other operative procedures, as, in case of a failure with it, some of the more serious operations may always be resorted to. AVcinhold (Med. Recorder, xiii.) imagines that the principal cause of failure with the seton (as used in Europe in connexion with an external incision) is, its ]>ermitting the access of the external air to the extremities of the bone, which, for that reason, are ex- tremely disposed to become carious ; and to obviate this, he proposes making the wound funnel-shaped, a*nd using a conical or wedge- like seton. In addition to the cases treated by the seton which have been already al- luded to, or are included in our tables, this method of treatment has been successfully used in the fore-arm by Delpech, (Clin. Chir. i. p. 255.) in the leg by Rigal de Gaillac, in the clavicle by Randolph, and by Saurer in the leg in a case of eight months’ duration. (Oppenheim on False Joints, in Zeitschrift fur die Cesammte Medicin, No. 5, May 1837.) In the case of a non-united fracture of the humerus, cited by Lom- bard, (Velpeau, Med. Operatoire, ii. p. 586,) it was employed without benefit; and on the same bone with only partial success, by Reclard of Strasburg. An unuinted fracture of the acromion pi'ocess of the scapula, occur- ring in a female, which was treated by the seton some years back at the Alms-House Infirmary of this city, terminated in death. Professor Mott’s experience in the use of the seton has been large: eleven cases have been treated by this method by hiin, of which three were of the femur, three of the tibia, and five of the humerus. In all it succeeded |)erfectlVj except in three of the last-mcn- lioned bone, which were altcnvards cured by I'csection of the ends. (Vache, in Am. Journ. of the Med. Sci. ix. p. 262.) Reference to the tables appended to this paper exhibits tlie following residts in lorly- six cases in wliich the seton and its modifica- tions were employed. Of these, 1.3 were in the femur, of which 9 were cured. Id leg, ... 10 16 ... humerus,... 10 6 ... fore-arm, ... 6 1 ... jaw, ... 1 “ Of these forty-six cases, twenty-one are stated to have had an incision made down to the bone previous to the introduction of the seton, and twenty-four had it passed without a previous incision. Of the twenty-one where previous incision w'as made, seventeen were cured, two amended, one failed, and one died. Of the twenty-four in which there was no previous division of the soft parts, eighteen were cured, one amended, four failed, and one died. “ In one case the seton was passed through a fistulous opening which previously existed. “ The longest period that the fracture had existed in these cases, was ten years (femur, set. 26). The shortest period was six weeks (tibia, set. 48). The average period was twelve months and twelve days. “ The longest period that the seton was allow'ed to remain, was thirteen months (hu- merus, set. 48, failed). The shortest period was seven days (fore-arm, cured). The ave- rage period was seven weeks and three days. “ The longest period required for the cure was eight months (femur, set. 41). The shortest period was three weeks (humerus, set. 23). The average period was two months and twenty-four days. In seventeen of the cases in which the seton was employed, other methods of operating are stated to have been tried and to have failed. “ In the forty-six cases treated by the seton, accidents dependent upon the method em- ployed, and not terminating in death, are noted as having occurred twelve times (arte- rial hemorrhage twice ; severe fever, erysi- pelas, or profuse suppuration, ten times).” Escharotics applied to the ends of bone forming a false joint, constitute a very ready and efficient means of removing all the organ- ized obstructions to reunion, and of exciting periostitis. The seton is certainly less power- ful ; and any more extensive operation must be both more powerful and dangerous, and without any more established grounds of hope, whether in exjiericnce or reason. Having made an incision to expose the false joint, and more or loss to divide it after drying the wound, the caustic potash is to be applied in the interspace of the bones until a considerable, rather than an extensive slough is formed. The wound should be gently ke])t open with lint, and the limb placed at ease, so as to favour, first suppuration and then re- union. Removal of the surfaces of the fractured cx- iremities.—A little later than the middle ot the last century, Mr. White of Manchester con- ceived the idea of, and successfully imactiscd, a method of treatment of false joints, to whicli we are sometimes obliged to have recourse, when the less severe and dangerous methotlsoO FRACTURE. CQ already described have failed. Mr. White’s method suggested itself to his mind, while cousideriiig the case of a boy of nine years of age, who had fractured the humerus six months before coming under his observation. The false joint which had formed was so loose, that the arm was not only useless, but burdensome to the y)atient; and Mr. Whites colleagues in the Manchester Infirmary pro- posed the amputation of the limb, as the only mode of relief of which the case ad- mitted. To this extreme measure he could not consent, arguing from the youth and soundness of constitution of the patient, that the formation of the false-joint was owing, not to any constitutional vice, but to some local cause, such as the continual movement of the fragments while the callus should have been in process of production, or the intro- duction of a portion of muscle between the fragments. He imagined, that if the fracture could be, as it were, renewed, and then ma- naged with ordinary skill and care, that there was nothing to prevent its consolidation; and he therefore proposed the following mode of jiroceeding ; — that a longitudinal incision should be made down to the false joint, of such a length as to admit of readily bringing the end of each fragment out at the wound, and in such a situation as to secure the large vessels and nerves of the limb from injury, and to demand the division of the least pos- ! sible thickness of soft parts; that the ex- J tremities of the fragments should next be '■ successively brought out at the wound, and sawed off or otherwise removed ; and that then, the fragments being placed in apposi- tion, the case should be treated as one of or- dinary compound fracture, in which the at- tempt is made to procure the union of the wound by the first intention. This proposal was acceded to, and the operation performed, with Mr. White’s assistance, with complete success, notwithstanding the occurrence of erysipelas of the arm a fortnight after the operation. In about six weeks after the ope- ration, the callus began to form, and, from that time, the consolidation proceeded unin- terruptedly to a perfect cure, without oven shortening of the arm. This operation, or some of the modifications of it, have been often performed since, by Mr. White himself and many other surgeons. The operations have often been successful. Not unfre- quently they have failed, and sometimes they have even been followed by the death of the patient. It need not be said, that, as the oj)cration in fact produces a compound frac- ture, the injury it inflicts is always of a serious nature, to which the surgeon should not con- sent to submit the patient, without strong reason in the evils he suffers from the disease. Shortening of the limb is an almost invariable consequence of it, and when the fracture has engaged two bones, as in the fore-arm and leg, the difficulty of jterforming the oj)cra- tioii and its danger are materially increased. Srclion of ligamentous union.—M,. Somme of Antwerp has practised the following ope- ration, which may also be considered as a modification of Dr. Physick’s method. In an ununited fracture of the femur, ho pierced the limb, from within outwards, with a trocar, passed so as to graze the lower ex- tremity and anterior surface of the upper fragment. The trocar being withdrawn with- out its canula, through this a long silver wire was passed across the limb, and left, after the canula was taken away. Placing the trocar in the canula again, he next passed it from without inwards, opposite the upper part of the false joint, across the limb a second time, in such a manner, that, passing close along the false joint, the trocar escaped on the inside of the thigh by the same opening through which it was first introduced. The trocar being withdrawn as before, the outer end of the wire was introduced into the can- ula, and passed from without inwards through it. Having taken away the canula by draw- ing it inwards, the loop of the wire was found to embrace the false joint, and the part of the skin and flesh of the outside of the limb intervening between the openings for the first exit and for the second entrance of the trocar, M. Somme now made an incision down to the false joint through the soft parts included in the loop, on drawing which home, by pulling the extremities of the wire imvards, it was made to embrace closely the liga- mentary tissue by which the fragments were united. The incision through the outside of the limb was made to unite over the wire by the first intention; and, by gradually tight- ening the loop on the fibrous tissue it em- braced, this was by degrees divided. The result of this operation was successful; a suffi- cient degree of consolidation having taken place in six weeks to justify the removal of the wire, before it had cut its way through the whole of the soft parts that had been included in its loop. A large quantity of callus was formed ; there was no shortening of the limb ; and three months after the ope- ration the [)atient was able to walk. “ Of the thirty-eight cases in the table in which resection was performed, twenty-four were cured, one amended, seven failed, and six died. Of these, “ 12 were in the femur, of which 7 were cured. 6 ... leg, ... 5 12 ... humerus, ... G 7 ... fore-arm, ... 5 and 1 amended. 1 ... jaw, ... 1 “ The longest period that the fracture had existed in these cases was live years (adult lemur). The shortest period was ten weeks (humerus, act. 50). “ The average period was thirteen months and nincteeti days. “ The longest ])criod required for the cure was thirteen months (femur, ict. 2G), “ The shortest ])criod was one month (fore- arm). The average j)criod was four months.FRACTURE. 91- “ In seventeen of the cases in which resec- tion was employed, other methods of ope- rating are stated to have been tried, and to have failed ; of which the seton was used six times. “ In the thirty-eight cases in which resec- tion was resorted to, accidents dependent upon the treatment followed, and not termi- nating in death, occurred nine times, (erysi- pelas, six ; profuse suppuration and abscesses, two ; phlegmasia dolens, one).” The strength of testimony against the ope- ration of resection, and the weakness of the evidence in its favour, certainly places it in close connexion with the last of the severe measures of resource, which is amputation,— if, in truth, it ought not to be totally excluded. The more a case might seem favourable for the trial of resection, the more it should seem to admit of hope by less fearful remedies. The moditications to which I have alluded above, consist in cutting down to the fracture, to permit of the introduction of a spatula (according to the practice adopted by Mr. Hunter) or some such instrument, for the purpose of rudely irritating the artificial joint; in the resection of one fragment only, when much difficulty is experienced in bringing the- other under the saw, the surgeon being satis- fied with paring with the scalpel, or rasping the extremity of the other fragment; in de- stroying, under circumstances similar to those of the last case, with potassa fusa, or other powerful escharotic, the fibrous tissue on the fragment which cannot, without difficulty, be reached by the saw, and even part of the bone itself. The results of experience with respect to various plans of treatment must not be looked upon as a settled basis of reasoning in our endeavours to determine the safest and readiest means of success ; at least not until both the varieties of cases, and the true causes of difficulty, are fairly established. The fol- lowing summary of the former table will, however, not be without its uses : “ Of 46 cases in which the seton * was em- ployed, 36 were cured, 3 partial cures, 5 no benefit, 2 died. “ Of 38 cases in which resection ^ was em- ployed, 24 were cured, 1 partial cure, 7 no benefit, 6 died. “ Of 36 cases in which pressure and rest were employed, 29 were cured, 1 partial cure, 6 no benefit. “ Of 8cases in which caustic was employed, 6 were cured, 2 no benefit. “Of 11 cases in which frictions were em- ployed, 11 were cured. “Of 11 cases in which other methods^ ' Including the methods of Wcinhold, Somme, 0|mcnheim, and Secrig. * Including all cases in which the ends of the bone were scraped, rasped, or excised. ® Iodine, .‘5, all cured; injections, 1, cured; cry- si|)clns, 1, cured ; hot iron, 1, cured ; amputation, 5, 1 cured, 2 died, 1 failed, 1 not stated. were employed, 7 were cured, 1 received no benefit, 2 died, 1 result not stated.” With the exception of the application of , blisters over the seat of the fracture, none of . these methods of treatment are exempt from danger. I have enumerated them with refer- , ence to their severity and danger, the first ' being the least severe and dangerous, and so ] on ; and therefore, if a case presented itself i to me, in w'hich none of them had been tried, i I would recommend the trial of them in the ; order of their enumeration. With respect » to the last methods, which are unquestion- : ably the most efficacious, but at the same [ time the most dangerous, I do not think the present state of our knowledge of such cases , enables us to pronounce a positive opinion as to which of them is upon the whole most suc- cessful ; because the cases of success and failure of each method, that have been pub- lished, have.not, in general, been recorded w'ith such minuteness as to show whether the cases are, or are not, truly equivalent. Sup- pose two cases of failure, in one of which Dr. Physick’s method was practised, and, in the other, Mr. White’s ; but that, in the former, the case was of short standing, in a youth of sound constitution ; while, in the latter, the case was of long standing, in an old subject of broken down constitution : it is obvious that the one would be a very strong case- against the seton, and the other a very weak, one against resection of the fragments. We must not, therefore, form our judgment in this matter merely on a blind reckoning up of the number of cases that make for and against each method ; and I repeat, that the cases we have in our possession have not generally been recorded in such a manner as , to enable us safely to classify them, according to the weight they are really entitled to in the scales of our judgment. Professor Gib- son’s oj)inion, that the failure of the seton is often attributable to its not having received a sufficiently patient trial, is well worthy of attention. Whatever method we adopt, our chances of success seem almost unequivocally certain with reference to the leg and fore-arm ; and it is even probable that a just discrimination of cases and settled pursuit of an appropriate simple method would always suffice. With respect to the bones of the thigh and rus, less than three-fourths of the recorded cases have been cured, fatal dangers have b^*' incurred, and it would still appear that milder and more efficacious means may have better success* 1 have not made it sufficiently plain, that the capsular form of pscudarthrosis is very uncommon. Out of a considerable number of examples of false joint in the inuseums o London, I have only seen two which I thinK deserve the name of capsular. These were both formed a little below the middle of tne fore-arm, involving both bones, and atten c with a marked overlapping of the upper irag- nionts forwards. Sec fig. 310. The sccono instance is very similar, it is in the collection 12U5 FRACTURE. ' of the College of Surgeons. The peculiarities ' of the part,and the want ofjudicious treatment, ■ seem the only necessary explanation of the oc- I currences; and I conceive that very little more I than a good coaptation well maintained would i have sufficed to produce ossific reunion. Fig. 309 may stand as the representative of i: a numerous set of cases which appear to con- /I tradict the above statement. The head ot ji the thigh-bone, being detached, except that 0 more or less of periosteal bands connects it H with the shaft, and remaining without any I. useful repair, is very common, but is a speci- I fic case, and without any parallel to those now ii under consideration. It is very rare that the changes deserve the appellation of a false- i| joint, and of course they never admit of cura- 1 tive attempts. In the case where little intervenes betw'een . the disjoined fragments, apposition and perios- titis are necessary to reunion; where solid . ligament separates the fragments, its removal, as by absorption, must precede the coapta- , tion; and where a synovial cell intervenes, I the fragments rubbing against each other, it will be requisite that active organization on I a point of one fragment shall unite with the : like on the opposite piece, and this is almost li tantamount to the obliteration of the cavity r by vascular substance. In every case, next to I coaptation, the action I’equired is, ossific in- I flammation, on each coapted part. The sim- •; plest means of treatment the case will admit of, are of course the best. There are cases I in which the constitution seems incapable of the specific action of ossification ; and there ; are others in which the probable difficulty of II obtaining a cure, ought to preclude the at- [ tempt. 1 The reader may find especial information on the subject of false joints in Fabricius Hildunus, Observ. Cliinirg. cent. iii. obs. 91. Salzmann^ De Articula- tionibus qua; Ossium Frae.turis superveniunt. Argent. 1718. Job a Meckren, Observ. Med.-Chirurg. cap. Ixxi. While, Cases in Surgery. Loud. 1770. Laroche, Diss. sur un moyen de guerir Ics Fausscs Articula- tions. Paris, an xiii. rhysic. Medical Itepository, vol. i. New York, 1(104. 'lioiix, De la Resection dcs jKirties d’Os m.aladcs. Paris, 1012. lFaj-<7rop, Mcdico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. v. p. 358. Lanqenbtck, Ncue IJibliotck fiir die Chinirgie und 0])hthal. vol. i. p. 81. 0}>jicnheim, Ueber die Jlehandlung der falsdien Gclcnke, in Rust’s Mag.azine, vol. x.wii, p. 203. Sanson, Dictioimiiirc de Med. ct de (Jliiriirg. Pra- tiques, t. iii. p. 491. Marx et 1‘aillard, .Journal Ilebd. t. xii. p. 97. ChHius, Traite do Chirurgic. ' Translated into Frcncli by I’igne, with notes. Sir A. Cooper, On Dislocations and h'ractures, (in Ajipcn- dix,) edited by Pransby B. Cooper. 1842; and Dr. Norris, as already quoted, wliose work almost pre- cludes tlie want of any reference to his predecessors. DIASTASIS, on SEPAnATION, OF EI'IPIIYSES. lo conclude the general observations on fracture, I have now only to make a few remarks on the^ subject of the separation of the epiphyses of bones. These accidents, pe- culiar to early life, are, as I have observed J aliove, different from fracture, as they in- volve no rujifure ot the osseous tissue ; yet, ' since the same principles of treatment ajqily to them as to fractures, it may naturally be supposed of importance to consider one set of cases with the other. The subject of these disruptions is far from being devoid of practical interest, since the surgeon, whose attention has not been parti- cularly directed to the nature of these acci- dents, is liable either to overlook their occur- rence, on account of the absence of crepitus, or the difficulty of detecting it; or to con- found the cases with dislocations, on account of the proximity of the seat of the injury to the joints. It is only recently that the attention of the profession has been espe- cially invited to this kind of injury. For the observations I shall make on it I am princi- pally indebted to the memoir of M. Rognetta, in the Gazette Medicale, 1834. The simple separation of epiphyses from the bones to which they belong, may take place at any time previous to that at which the epiphj'ses become secured by osseous tissue, or, in other w'ords, become apophyses. The period of life at which the consolidations take place varies considerably in different bones, and in different individuals. In general, the union between epiphyses and the shaft is completed at the age of puberty, when the bones cease to acquire length. Sometimes, however, the union is not perfect till a considerably later period, a thin layer of cartilage having been, in several cases, found still existing between the shaft and epiphysis at twenty-five years of age. The separation by violence of any part of a bone originally distinct, before it has become soldered by bone, is plainly an accident of the class to which I at present especially seek to direct attention. It is obvious, that violence may be so directed as to separate the parts of any bone, w'hile in the condition which I have described. There are, however, but few of them in which we have evidence of such an accident having actually occurred. The sca- pula consists originally of six or seven sepa- rate pieces ; one for the glenoid cavity ; one for the point of the coracoid process; one for the superior surface and extremity of the acromion ; one for the posterior margin of the bone ; one for the posterior edge of the sjune ; one for the body of the bone, and, sometimes, one for its inferior angle ; and of these, several are a good deal exposed to such injuries as might detach them from the rest; yet I am not aware of any w'ell-authcnticated case of this accident to which I can refer. That the accident occurs, I do not doubt. Cases are recorded, of separation of the condyles of the occipital bone, of rupture of the atlas into two lateral halves, and of the odontoid process from tlic vertebra dentala. It need hardly bo said, that such cases would be very difficult to diagnose iiositivcly, and that the treatment of them should include every precaution to prevent movement of the head on the spine. I have seen a separation of the odontoid process of the deulata vertebra in an adult.FRACTURE. 96 which, I think, should rather be considered as a diastasis. It occurred in the person of a youngish man, who received a very severe injuiy over the j)art, but had no paralysis. His healtli appeared to decline, with febrile symptoms, and he died many months after the accident, without any symptom of the disease of the spinal marrow. The processus den- tatus w'as found detached from the body of the second vertebra, with some little lateral displacement. The broken surfaces, when macerated, were rough and minutely spongy, but not cancellated or dense. Around their apposed edges w'ere some slight masses of ossific separation attached to the body of the vertebras. Here the want of due coaptation, though slight, was sufficient to prevent ossific union. The three bones of wdiich the os innomi- natum originally consists, are not united into one till towards the eighteenth or twentieth year; before which they may be forcibly separated from one another. M. Dupuytren speaks of a case in which the bones forming the cotyloid cavity had been forced in, and the head of the femur had passed completely into the cavity of the pelvis. At a very early period of life the sternum consists of two lateral halves, wdiich soon unite at the middle suture, and of several transverse pieces, which are often not soldered together till about the age of puberty. These pieces are sometimes separated by violence at the transverse junctions. (See Luxations.) The costal cartilages are liable to be separated at their articulations wdth the ribs, constituting an injury of the same nature as that of which we are speaking. The rule laid dowm for the treatment of dislocation of the costal cartilage, by Sir A. Cooper, is applicable to all these cases. He directs the surgeon to desire the patient to make a full inspiration, and then to press the cartilage into its place. When the chest is well expanded by a full inspiration, the projecting cartilage can ahvays be re- placed without much difficulty. The reduc- tion is to be maintained by a piece of moist- ened pasteboard secured over the injured jiart by compress, and a broad flannel bandage passed round the chest so firmly as to throw' the work of respiration on the diaphragm. The separation of the epiphyses from the shafts of long bones, in consec]^uence of vio- lence inflicted at the time of birth, or in early life, is frequent; and the danger, that the accident will be overlooked or mistaken for dislocation or fracture, great; and it is there- fore of much consequence that the practi- tioner should be prepared with precise ana- tomical knowledge of the various situations in w'hich the accident may occur, and atten- tive to examine every case in which there is a probability that the lesion has taken place. The only symptom on which wo can rely is the existence of unnatural mobility in the bone, at the jioint where anatomy inforins us the e[)iphysis is united to its shaft. ^ If the accident bo overlooked, and the ])atient bo allowed to use the limb, there is much risk of his being crippled. In the upper extremity, separations of the head of the humerus, the condyles, and lower extremity of the same bone, and the low'er extremity of the radius, are the more frequent: in the lower extre- mity, the injury is most common at the head of the femur, and the condyles of the same bone. Sir Charles Bell ‘ says, “ I havd known it occur in the humerus from a boy firing a musket ; in the head of the thigh- bone from a fretful child casting himself back- w’ards whilst held in the nurse’s arms. I have found it in the lower head of the femur,—the leg of the boy having been caught in the' spokes of the w'heel whilst he was attempting to get upon the back of a carriage.” The sepa- ration by violence of the epiphyses forming the upper extremities of the radius and ulna,. the trochanters, and that forming the head of: the tibia, are more uncommon. The separation i of the epiphyses that form the olecranon andl great trochanter, may be caused either by external or muscular force. It is difficult to • conceive that the lesser trochanter can be ■ separated from thd^ shaft of the femur, except by muscular contraction. I have once seen,, in a lad, the epiph^'sis at the upper end of the first phalanx of the fore-finger, detached from the shaft. It is remarkable, that w'hat pre- vents the more frequent occurrence of this accident is not so much the strength w'ith which the epijihysis adheres to the shaft, as i the support given to the junction between them by the periosteum. In dissecting these parts, before the time of consolidation ap- jiroaches, w'e find that the great cartilaginous nidus of an epiphysis seems to be nothing more nor less than a massive expansion of the periosteum of the shaft, on which they arc superposed, or of the other masses or epiphysis to which they are destined to grow. In all the foregoing cases, the same general principles of treatment are to be applied as in fractures in the same situations. The reader will find some illustrative cases connected with the accounts of fractures of particular bones. (J. Macdonnell.') After a careful study of the more general facts and jirinciples relating to fractures, the reader will be prepared to enter with advan- tage upon the consideration of PARTICULAR FRACTURES. The following appears to be the most sim- ))le systematic arrangement of the parts liable to fractures : 'Fhe bones of the spine, cranium, face, larynx, thorax, arm, pelvis, and leg. ' InsHtulce of Surgery, vol. i. p. 3.97 FRACTUKE. r To each of the two first of this list—the spine and the cranium—it will be necessary to devote a distinct series of considerations, on account of the peculiarities and serious diffi- culties which attend injuries of the brain and spinal marrow. (See the articles,— Head and Spine.) It should not be here regarded as out of place, or out of our province, to recom- mend to the student a different course from that which a systematic work seems to impose. The most frequent fractures are the first in importance to the practitioner ; and to attend first to the most essential things is a golden rule of life in every matter. Many important practical considerations, however, which could not often be well repeated, though applicable to many cases, must be looked for in the ac- count of the less frequent fractures. The consideration of cases of fracture connected with dislocation is necessarily deferred until we shall have examined the simple luxations. (See Loxations.) FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. Fractures of the bones of the face seem to be guarded against in a peculiar manner, by the ever watchful senses and a natural instinct. In respect of solidity, these bones may rank between those chiefly composed of cancel- lated tissue, and those of the harder sub- stance of cylindrical bones; and toughness, perhaps, should be considered as their pro- ■ per characteristic. They are by no means I commonly broken. According to the tables I at page 243, the following is the order in / point of frequency, in which fractures of them occur; and this is also the order in w'hich the injuries are practically important; viz. fractures of the low^er jaw, of the nasal bones, and of the remaining facial bones'. For the sake of system, however, we shall consider them in a somewhat different order. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE NOSE. The nasal bones, from their small size, com- parative solidity, arched arrangement, and firm attachments, are capable of affording con- siderable resistance to external violence, and even great protection to the organs of vision ; yet they are not unfrequently fractured by the several causes of injury to which they are particularly exposed from their superficial and prominent position. The most frequent of these causes are, falling upon the face, blows of the fist, of staves, and kicks from horses. It will avail hut little to make nice distinc- tions between the ordinary cases of these fractures. Perhaps the most common occur- rence is the separation of a small fragment from the anterior (inferior) thin and expand- ed margin of one or both bones; but a scarcely less frequent injury is a transverse division at the middle of the two bones (Figs. 314,315). Some fracture of the ascending or ' Mr. I.on8«lrilc found, that of near 2000 cases of fr.actiue ticatod in six years at the Middlesex Hospi- tal, 40 involved tlie bones of the face; namely, 13 tW ossa nasi, 1 the upper jaw, and 32 the lower Jaw. Fig. 42. Fracture nf the ossa nasi repaired. The left hone has been broken near its Unver end, yet not so near that part as is freepcently the case. The riyht, udiicli is longer, and encroaches on the left, has been divided near its middle, and the displacement laterally if Us infeiior portion is considerable. Fig. 43. Fracture across the middle of the ossa nasi, reunited with some displacement. nasal plate of the superior maxillary bones, of the nasal spine of the frontal bone, or even of the ethmoid bone, may occasionally occur, as additions to the injury in question. Some- times loosening of the nasal bones is effected, with or without fracture. Still more extensive injuries may involve the base of the brain, or the organs of vision; but these accidents will be found spoken of in their appropriate places. It is, on the whole, rare that fractures of the nasal bones are laid open superficially ; but they are very commonly exj)oscd to the air in the nasal cavity, and consequently pursue the usual course of ojten fractures, giving rise to suppuration, and every now and then to exfoliation. In all these fractures considerable superficial confusion is produced, and hmmorrhage from the ruptured vessels of the lining membrane of the nose is to bo expected.98 FRACTURE. The separation of the bones of the nose from each other, and those naturally in con- tact with them, after a certain period of adult life, is, in effect, a genuine fi’acture ; and even before this period, in a practical point of view, it may still be regarded as such. The striking body is usually large in pro- portion to the size of the injured part; and, in one sense, the force may be said to be applied immediately to the seat of fracture. This, however, is not strictly correct, for when, by a blow on the extremity of the nasal bones, they are separated at their at- tachments to the frontal or maxillary bones; or when the superior processes of the latter, or the vomer, or the ethmoid bone is frac- tured, the injury must partake of the nature of a counter-fracture. The fragments to which the nasal bones are reduced by violence, sometimes remain in sufficiently good adjustment; but usually they are depressed. In the lighter kinds of injury, if the blow be given in a central direction, the bones will be sometimes spread out late- rally ; if in an oblique line, they will be forced on one side. But, from the more violent causes, they will be altogether driven inwards towards the cavity of the nose. Into what- ever situation they are impelled in the 'first instance, in that they will remain until the surgeon employs some means to restore them to their proper places ; and if he succeed in replacing them, there will be little danger, with common attention, of secondary displace- ments. If the injury be confined to the bones which compose the nasal arch (the bridge), the principal object will be to prevent de- formity. The very unpleasant deformity, which is rather a frequent consequence of nasal frac- tures, may be supposed to result chiefly from exfoliation, and the contraction of membranes subsequent to inflammation. It is therefore especially important to avoid all unnecessary injury to the bones in the process of reducing them ; and it would even seem better to leave the fragments displaced for several days, than to produce additional disorganization and in- flammation, by re-adjusting them either with force, or protracted efforts at a time when they are most in danger of dying from defective supplies of nutrition. Remembering that ex- cessive displacement may give rise to similar evils to those just referred to ; that the accu- rate coaptation of fragments is of little con- sequence during the first ten days after the receipt of the injury ; and that necrosis is liable to be produced or aggravated by dis- turbance, the surgeon must consider how much may be safely performed at first, and how much he may defer till reparative inflamma- tion has diminished the liability to^ necrosis, and prepared the way for consolidation of the fragments. If the bones arc pushed out in a lateral direction, or forced on either side, external pressure made by the fingers may bo sufli- cient to rectify the displacement, raise the bridge of the nose, and bring it into an oven position. ^ But if the pieces are driven in- wards, this method will be inapplicable ; or, at least, it must be combined with that com- monly recommended and employed, of intro- ducing into the cavity of the nostril, some instrument, such as a catheter or closed forceps, to act as an elevator to the de- pressed fragments. A convenient mode of restoring fragments of an os nasi to their natural relations, is by means of a pair of common dressing forceps Muth the blades apart,—one blade being applied to their in- ternal surface, the other to their external sur- face, and so pressing them, as it were, into proper position. To arrest haemorrhage, if it prove alarming, or even to support the fractured bones, should they be excessively loosened, it may be necessary to introduce plugs of lint into the nostrils ; or, with the view of facilitating respiration, plugs traversed by pieces of gum elastic catheter, or formed of thick tubular India rubber. Since, how- ever, the tubes cannot well reach the frag- ments, to give them due support; and since they must be attended with much inconve- nience, as foreign bodies placed in contact with delicate parts going through a pi'ocess of inflammation, and in danger of disorgani- zation, the use of such means is of very doubt- ful advantage, and is not to be had recourse' to if it can be avoided with propriety. Sir Charles Bell has given his opinion, thatt no tubes can be employed so as to act effi-- ciently; and we know that the fragments,, when displaced, will not readily (unless very much loosened) change their position, as^ they are acted on by no muscles. It must be' allowed, that compresses in the nose can only be needed when the face has been very much crushed ; and it will not be difficult to deter-- mine in any particular case, whether the arti- • ficial support is at all required, and whether it can be applied with effect. The bleeding which accompanies these ac- • cidents, provided it be not excessive, is rather to be looked upon as salutary, and tending to prevent the occurrence of inflammation, a cir-- cumstance to be apprehended, from the close ■ proximity of the ethmoid bone to the base of the brain. Depletion and antiphlogistic means are to be employed whenever the accident is of a severe kind, and a cautious prognosis ■ must be offered, in anticipation of the effects ■ that may be produced in the brain from in- flammation and its sequel®, as well as of the more immediate results of the shock. Emphysema of the surrounding integu- ments but rarely results from fracture of these bones. It is of little consequence, ex- cepting as it indicates that the fracture is open internally. Head-ache and threatening inflammations will require depletion and to- jiical applications of cold lotions. The lacry- mal sac may become obstructed by ccchv- rnosis or inflammation ; and it is even said that the punctiim lacrymale may give out little drops of blood.FRACTURE. 99 FRACTUKE OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. This bone, from its form and strength, and less prominent situation, is more rarely the seat of fracture than those just spoken of; but examples are of course occasionally pre- sented in military surgery. Such a violence as the kick of a horse may cause this acci- dent, though scarcely ever without the frac- ture of other bones of the face. The injury to the bone itself is generally the least serious consideration. The contusion and laceration Parloftlminferiorjaw removed in extracliny a molar tooth. are of more importance, and the eye will es- pecially claim the surgeon’s attention. Slight fractures of the upper jaw may occur when the teeth are p. struck out, or un- happily extracted, (Fig. 316); and the remark is not unimportant, as it gives occasion for the injunction—to be careful; and if a portion of alveolus be considerably dis- placed,—to be at- tentive, forcibly to press it with the finger back again into its place, and to guard the patient against the danger of necrosis. Rest, mode- rate diet, and freedom from exposures during the first days of the necessary reparative ii> flammation, may not be neglected with impu- nity. Whenever there is a fair hope that a displaced tooth may regain its hold, it is to be carefully restored. This is more important, as also more practicable, in the cases of young persons. If a tooth be detached or only loosened, in connexion with fracture, the reparation of the bone must pretty certainly proceed as that of open fracture in other parts. Splinters of the bone itself that are detached or much loosened, or that cannot be replaced with a fair prospect of restoration, are to be removed. It will be right to see that the natural line of the teeth is restored, and that they do not interfere with the projier closure of the mouth. The treatment in most cases will consist of very little more than attention to the general and local measures which are adapted to regulate inflammation and tume- faction. Occasionally it will be required to conduct the reduction and reparation more in tlie manner which we shall presently describe with reference to the lower jaw. Gentleness and care may save some valuable teeth. It is not necessary to take any stc[) towards the immediate nice adjustment of a large frag- nient, wliich may still further endanger its vitality ; but after the first activity of inflam- mation has begun to subside, it may be accu- rately replaced with less risk of causini; its death. W hen the parts have been adjusted, the inferior row of teeth forms the best and most available support to the broken portions, and a thin layer of cork or caoutchouc may be placed between the teeth, and of course the lower jaw is to be kept all but closed. It is of some moment to observe that the apposi- tion of the fragments be correct w-hen ossific union is about to commence. FRACTURES OF THE MALAR BONE. These are very uncommon accidents, and are rarely produced without severe lesion of the soft parts. The malar bone may be crushed; or its borders; and the zygomatic arch in par- ticular may be driven in. Force from above most readily breaks this bone, but its strength to resist horizontal blows is so great, that when it gives way the brain also frequently suffers. The complications, therefore, are to be consi- dered serious. Before the commencement, or after the subsidence of swelling, the dia- gnosis is easy. If there be no material dis- placement, the only treatment consists in con- fining the lower jaw comjdetely, and in regu- lating local or deeper inflammations. The finger in the mouth may be employed to replace fragments. The zygomatic arch formed by the malar bone, and the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone, is much exposed to injury, and is by no means exempt from fractures, though they are very much less common than those of the nasal bones. Fractures of the malar bones, as of the nasal, take place rather more often, perhaps, than they are presented to the surgeon. I speak from what I have observed on macerated skulls. I have been informed of the zygomatic arch suffering from the blow of a cricket ball, in which case it was found im- possible to restore the depressed portions, and permanent deformity was the result. Should the bone be so far driven inwards as to reach the coronoid process of the lower jaw, this bone would present a force capable of removing it; and it is therefore rather im- probable that the presence of the displaced arch should form any permanent obstacle to the closure of the mouth. It will be right, however, to ascertain at an early period after such an accident, that the lateral and vertical movements of the jaw are unrestrained. Chelius recommends us, when fragments of this part are driven into the temporal muscle, impeding mastication and deglutition, and when the finger in the mouth is unavailing, to consider the proprietjf of cutting down and elevating, I believe it is principally the rarity of such an injury, wdiich has made most writers disregard this advice. The bony arch is certainly liable to become deeply and jtcr- manently indented ; and it is desirable to bo aware of the fact, and to remember that it may be of consequence early to remedy the deformity ; or, at least, that no one should be left to endure through life a serious inconve- nience which is susceptible of so easy a remedy. Occasionally, fractures of the malar bone are unattended with discoverable ilis|)lace- ment; and in a few cases the bone has ratherFRACTURE. 100 been luxated than fractured: under such cir- cumstances, replacement is more easily effected by the mouth. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. The inferior maxillary bone, which next falls under our notice, differs from the bones already spoken of, in being secured by move- able articulations, and subject to the controul of various powerful muscles ; and it will soon appear, as we anticipated in our general con- siderations, that a due knowledge of the mus- cles is of the utmost service in the investiga- tion and management of the cases of fracture which are affected by them. Here I cannot omit to urge, as an essential principle in the treatment of fractures, the consideration of the attitude of repose, as the first step towards good coaptation wherever muscles are con- cerned. There may be good reasons for de- viating from this position in various cases; but it cannot be denied, that this is the po- sition best calculated to avoid tension of every muscle, and that to deviate from it will proportionately overstrain some muscles. As I shall frequently have occasion to advert to the application of the principle, it seemed right, partially to enforce it. It may be con- sidered as a little surprising that the opinion has not been long and familiarly noticed. The lower jaw, by reason of its mobility, is capable, in some measure, of eluding the effects of violence—of yielding in different directions ; and, but for this, its exposed situa- tion would render it liable to be more fre- quently fractured. The character of the frac- ture in a given case, will have reference to the bone itself, the part broken, and to the surrounding structures. Fractures of the lower jaw-bone must often be prevented by the solidity and toughness of the bone, as well as by its peculiar construc- tion. Their common course is through the horizontal body of the bone ; and this case is usually of the nature of open fracture, if only a tooth be displaced, for there is no efficient membrane in the alveolar cell, to exclude the air from the cavity of the fracture. We shall, however, find many proofs that open fracture is of slight importance, unless the fracture and the cavity produced around are extensive. An important distinction of cases depends on the part broken. The body of the bone, the ascending plate, the neck, the coronoid process, and the symphysis, are liable to frac- tures ; and nearly in the order here stated. Various degrees of obliquity and comminu- tion, and several complications, may occasion- ally attend the fracture of each part. A blow on any part of the bone may cause a fractuie at the precise spot on which it strikes. 1 he coronoid process, notwithstanding its deep and protected situation, has in this way been broken off. Rut it more frequently hapimns, that the impulse takes effect on auotlicr part of the bone ; as when the neck is divided by a Vtlow on the chin, or when lateral pressure fractures some part of the anterior arch. In the situation of the symphysis the bone i< ■ somewhat thicker and stronger, on accoiin • of prominences and the attachment of tin muscle, than it is immediately on either side and, from this circumstance, it follows tha ; the division scarcely ever occurs at the middh point (excepting occasionally in children), bu : at a short distance from it. In this case tin muscles situated between the symphysis o the chin and the os hyoides, not including tin mylo-hyoideus, act only on the larger portion and this will consequently be depressed below the level of the other part. This will, how- ever, be the only deformity, and less in de • gree than when the separation occurs, behino the attachment of the last-mentioned muscle'- In that case, all the depressor muscles of the jaw will draw down the chin, and there wil be no antagonist to the masseter, temporal and pter3'goid muscles on the side of the frae tore. The rising of one part above the othe i will consequently be considerable; in addi tion to which, the pterygoid muscles will teno' to draw both portions towards the centre o the mouth. The displacement produced by :, fracture through the ascending process, i much less than in the preceding case ; and i is, likewise, much more concealed, on accoun of the attachment of the masseter and ptery gold muscles on its opposite sides. It shoult'. also be observed, that as the greater part o the bone remains in one piece, with most O' the muscles attached to it, it is capable O' performing all the motions natural to if' though with less steadiness than in its soum condition ; and hence it is, that the power O' opening and shutting the mouth, and even masticating food, has been preserved in somi • cases. It is scarcely possible to suppose tha the dental nerve and artery, which enter tin posterior maxillary foramen, and traverse th^ body of the bone, can escape from bein;'. stretched, lacerated, or compressed, whert this part is broken through with displacement yet we have the authority of Boyer for say ing, that any serious consequences arisin, . from these causes are of rare occurrence. When the condyle is separated from th > rest of the ascending apophyses, it will b'l drawn inwards and forwards by the externa, pterygoid muscle, without affording to the sui geon the slightest chance of restoring it b any force that can be applied to it. The ii ternal pterygoid muscle will not permit th • ascending process to bo thrown in the oppe • site direction ; but, by drawing the bone iq ■ wards, in combination with the action of th temporal muscle, it will create an overlappin of the fragments, or what we have describe as angular displacement. When the coronoid process is detached, i becomes raised by the temjmral muscle, an leaves no hope of our being able to bring i again into contact with the body of the l)on< The reunion is consequently by ligamcn and the temporal muscle is [iroportionatel enfeebled, but all the others retain due power Wlien the fracture extends through hot101 FRACTURE. sides of the body of the maxilla, the displace- ment is "reater than when one side only is broken ; and this will be still more marked if the fractured surfaces are oblique. The an- terior portion having' lost its support will be depressed and drawn backwards by the mus- cles situated between the chin and the os hyoides. The bones will more or less over- lap each other, and the posterior fragments will be inclined inwards by the action of the pterygoidaei muscles. Other muscles also, losing their fixed points of attachment, will cease to command the movements of the »os hyoides, and a greater difficulty will be expe- rienced in pronunciation and deglutition than in the former accidents. The body of the jaw gives way in a trans- verse direction, or it may be broken obliquely, and then usually the direction of the fracture extends downwards and forwards (or inwards); one or two teeth may be also detached, or even five or six, with a border of aheolus, by an additional line of separation. We may find, but happily very rarely, a good part of the jaw reduced to many fragments. It is evident that the ascending plate is strongest to resist forces applied against the chin, and that the neck of the jaw is the part liable to yield un- der such circumstances. The symptoms of fractures of the lower jaw are generally easy of detection. The patient receives a blow, has fallen on his chin, or his lower jaw has been strongly compressed against the ground by some heavy weight, j such as the wheel of a carriage; he expe- riences extreme pain, and more or less ina- bility to move the part. The inequalities of the fracture are discovered in moving the fingers along the accessible outlines of the bone; the teeth have lost their level, or there is some interruj)tion of the linear regularity of the dental arch. The pieces are move- able ; and when moved, a crepitus is felt in most cases. As we have seen, the fracture is usually made open by the laceration of the soft parts. Fractures of the rami or of the condyles produce pain in front of the cheek or cur, especially during the motion of the jaw, which may also produce a cro|)itus. Jn a frac- ture of the neck there is a slight depression over the site of the condyle, which is drawn inwards. An ordinary case of fracture of the lower jaw is never in itself alarming; indeed it is only on account of serious complications or unusual consequences, that any case can be- come dangerous. The nervous irritations, sympathies, swellings, and salivations for- merly irri|)iited specifically to such injuries are now unheeded. With occasional exceptions, as we have described, the treatment of fractures of the lower jaw is not difficult. The reduction is readily effected ; and between the resistance of the teeth of the upper jaw, and the equal ])ressure of ap[)uratus beneath the lower, the : jiurls may be ke|)t in good apposition ; but the nice adaptation and careful retention of the bandages requires some skill and constant attention. A layer of cork or india-rubber may be placed between the upper and lower teeth, and then a firm surface is afforded, against which, as a natural splint, the fragments may be confined in situ. A four-tailed bandage (see Fig. 149, article Bandage) is to support the jaw. A pad may be applied on one side of the jaw, to prevent lateral displacement ; and if the horizontal part of the jaw be divided on both sides, and the parts incline inwards, a good compress behind the chin may remedy the deformity ; or, at least, prevent the ill effects that the bandage might produce, by pressing the fore part of the bone in a back- ward direction, to which it is too much in- clined by the action of the muscles. In such a case it would be desirable to take some pains in moulding on the part a splint of pasteboard; or, what takes the form more accurately, several layers of thick paper, pasted together. When this has become dry and hard, a layer of lint or wadding may be interposed between it and the skin, to pre- vent the unpleasant effects of friction, and to produce greater pressure on any spot where it may be required. If the teeth near to the place of fracture remain firm in their sockets, and sufficient space intervene between them to allow of the passage of a piece of silk or wire, they may with advantage be tied toge- ther ; and in the cure of double fracture, some advantage might be derived from wiring or tying together, one or two corresponding teeth in each jaw, so as to prevent the backward and lateral displacement, as well as the down- ward ; but the last can be equally well prevented by pressure from below. What- ever method be adopted of fixing the frac- tured bones, talking must be avoided ; and all the food must be taken in a fluid form, and sucked between the lips and teeth into the mouth. It has been recommended to intro- duce liquids, with a gum-elastic tube through the nostrils. In a case of severe contusion such a practice might possibly be advanta- geous ; but it will seldom be required, and generally it will be far more agreeable to the patient to take them altogether through the natural channel. If the contusion occasioned by the striking body be great, as is usually the case, the abstraction of blood by leeches, and the up])li- cation of an evaporating lotion, will tend to allay pain, and ])rcvent effusion and tumefac- tion. If it be only slight, such applications will be unnecessary, and should not be used ; es])ecially the leeches, which rather increase the liability to an attack of erysipelas. As regards the adjustment, posture is not to be neglected, when there is any dilficulty in maintaining coa])tation. Placing the patient in bed on his buck, with the head raised so as to depress the chin considerably, relaxing all the muscles connected with the os hyoides, will materially facililate the ap])lication of IIFRACTURE. 102 apparatus of rctcniioii, and in a grood measure, secure <lie patient from dislurljing infiuenccs. The same relation of parts ma_y subscquenlly be maintained, if necessary, with less confine- ment. There is no kind of fracture in which relaxation of muscles is more evidently useful than in fracture of the body of the jaw with great displacement. In open fractures of the maxilla, the indications of treatment, as far as regards the adjustment and maintenance of the bones, is the same as when there is no wound. If there be loose and detached splin- ters or fragments, these should be removed, provided it can be done with gentleness, and without increasing that injury which it is intended to alleviate. The wound should then be closed, and, if external, covered with a piece of lint, provided its appearance justifies the expectation, that union by adhesion may be produced. If, how’ever, there appear to be too much contusion to admit of this, a bread and water poultice, to w'hich Liq. Plumb, subacet. dil. may be added, is a good application. This may be retained by the four-tailed bandage in the manner already described. Precise rules cannot be laid down for the proper time of changing the dressings, either in the simple or open fractures. No pos- sible advantage can arise from disturbing the dressings, so long as the bones remain in apposition, and the patient is at ease. No further interference is needed if the surgeon can be assured of this. It is, however, proper to be daily assured of this, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it occurs. Fractures of the jaw are said to be united at the end of four weeks; and solidly, after thirty-five days. These may be taken as the average periods for adults ; but in different individuals, and in those of various ages, there wfill be consider- able differences in this respect. Instances have occurred, where, from the adaptation of the broken portions of bone not being steadily .secured, and perhaps from some unknown peculiarity of constitution, or from disease, the fracture has never been repaired by bone. In general, how'ever, as the bone is well sup- plied with blood, the production of a bony union is readily effected. It may happen, that the want of sufficient contact, at a certain period of the reparation, is the cause of ligamentous union,—the broken surfaces becoming each coated with an adven- titious periosteum, and the intervening space filled by contracted cellular membrane, which motion and stretching convert into ligament. In such a case, a seton or tent between the fragments, wide enough to excite periostitis on both, would lead to the growth and inos- culation of bone, on each side of the irritating body. The two parts once united, if only by a point, w'onld not again separate, unless from a constitutional cause, or the taking of mer- cury. 'I'lie fracture of this false union would 1)0 the cause of its growing stronger, as woidd also every slight yielding until perfectly strong. A separation of the two rami at the sym- physis, in early life, is a very rare accident. It is in all respects equal to a diastasis. In' after life fracture at this precise part is still; more rare. The diagnosis and treatment ol these injuries is unattended by difficulty. FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX. These injuries demand a place in the genera - category of fractures, although the records o:! surgery are almost destitute of accounts o1>- them. Fractures of the os hpoidcs.—The fracture of the os hyoi'des is exceedingly rare, evi- - dently on account of its protected situation though its mobility and elasticity are access- ary safeguards. A compression, resembling.- that of strangulation, and the pressure of the • fingers and thumb against the two sides of the - bone, have produced this accident h Pain difficulty of speech and deglutition, inability .- to protrude the tongue, and tumefaction, arc - attendant symptoms ; but these belong also tc ' general injuries. The finger deep in the mouth may distinguish the fracture, and ever i the fact of its being open or simple. In one case in which the patient felt the giving way of the bone, the right ramus was- divided and retracted. In another case the fracture was on the left side, the tongue^ drawn to the right, and the fragment wa.‘i- advanced. The finger at the base of the tongue did not cause pain, but thrusting back> the tongue produced distress. The parts are to be as nearly adjusted by the two fore-fingers as the case will admit- The mouth is to be kept as much closed a; ■ possible, and the head forwards. An oeso-.- phagus-tube passed through the nares, anc i there retained, has been found useful for the' easy administration of food. Enemata become important resources, as a means of nutritionii, where distress is excited by food in tin. pharynx. Contusions, inflammations, ane oven cerebral congestion being present, mae ■ demand active treatment. The osseous basis of the thyroid cartilage though late in its development, is a genuino bone, and very unlike the earthy infiltratim' of the cartilages of the ribs. The bone w(-- arc speaking of possesses a thin shell, witl' scanty and delicate reticulations for its can celli. Its origin, and the progress of its forma tion, its diseases, injuries, and reparative ef forts, are strictly those of bone. In these re spects it is most analogous to the patella am sternum ; and although the chief importanci of its injuries relates to the air tube, (witl which w'c shall consider them,) it is ncccssar'-; to set (lowm the fracture, as well as the nccro sis, of the thyroid cartilage, as belonging to tin lesions of true bone. As in many other cases the less that is done to diagnose the injury or to remedy it, the better ; though it may lx readily understood that a fracture might cause such obstruction as to require immediate ope ration, to prevent asphy'xia. ' I.alcsqne, .Tonrnnl Itcbdoinad., 1!W3. Aubrrpr Ucviic AlBifiralp, lli.V).lOJ FRACTURE. FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. It happens rarely in civil occupations that the sternum is broken. Direct contusing vio- lence may divide the bone transversely at or near the junction of its first and second por- tions, and thus we may have either a luxation or fracture, or both. The elastic supports of the bone allow it to yield to a very consi- derable extent; and it cannot in general be broken without great violence, which some- times lacerates the skin, and often produces mischievous concussion, or even laceration, of the subjacent viscera. Occasionally, when perhaps one fragment has been much de- pressed, a quantity of blood infiltrates the tissue beneath. Emphysema has been pro- duced ; but, next to the visceral injuries, the inflammations, suppuration, and necrosis that may arise, are of the most common practical interest. The fracture may easily be detected by the touch; but the precise nature of the most common cases that occur, out of the field of battle, namely, separations of the two upper pieces, the lower being thrown forward, is not very easily discriminated with precision before death, by one unprepared to look for such an injury. We must be careful not to confound previously-existing deformity with the lesion of the sternum. The severer symptoms attendant upon this accident are nowise proper to it as a fracture; but the states on which they depend are almost among the necessary consequences of the great violence which must be inflicted before a sternum can become broken. Dyspneea, cough, bloody sputa, inability to lie on the back, or on one side, and palpi- tation, are liable to arise; but rather as sequelae than direct consequences ;—and thus the op- pressive symptoms may gradually increase. They are here set down nearly in the order of their frequency, as well as in that of their urgency when combined. The last symptom of disturbance in the chest would seem to be altogether casual; and it, of course, refers to the heart (its right or left side, or both) as the rest do to the lungs. It is important to remark, that as the sufferer may have been subject to some of these affections, they are not necessarily indicative of internal aggra- vations of the mischief. Prognosis.—The principal danger from this injury, in itself, is from suppuration and necro- sis; but the common danger is from subjacent lesions, or thoracic inflammations. On the whole the case should always be considered a very serious one. It is much more frequently fatal than not. A sim])le fracture of the sternum, with but slight displacement, is of very uncommon occurrence, and, comparatively, less danger- H ous, and difficult of detection. Soaj) plaster, ll and rest, even from slight exertion in bed, ',1 may suffice for the local treatment; but a full bleeding and a week of abstinence at least, will be generally desirable, as also great attention to obviate, or arrest the progress of, inflammations in the chest. Displaced frag- ments demand some attempts to re-adjust them, but our manipulation may not always be successful. By acting on the clavicles above, and on the ribs below, considerable force of extension and counter extension may be ex- erted upon the fracture. Two assistants may be thus employed, while the surgeon uses as much force as he may think well at the seat of fracture, or towards the ensiform bone. Tension or relaxation of the sterno-mastoidei and abdominal muscles may assist in the re- placement. It has been recommended in cases where the displaced fragments of the sternum resist ordinary attempts at reduction, to cut down to the parts, and with saw or lever to make forcible reduction ; but such practices seem of very questionable propriety. (See Lux- ations.) There can be little hesitation as to the justice of removing loose fragments from an open fracture, and of endeavouring directly to replace others, that might else interfere with a fair restoration ; yet the surgeon should avoid needless interference, and for the first days consider chiefly the dangers of inflammation, fever, or confined matter. The ensiform bone, even where increased in advanced life, is too small and secluded to be often broken ; or when injured, to give occasion to considerable symptoms. It is not easy to detect the fracture, nor can it be of importance, except in connexion with other injuries. The surgeon should attend to the relaxation of muscles, and a belt should be applied. Any mischief that ma}' break out in adjacent parts, as inflammation, should be guarded against; and after a few days of strict confinement the patient may gradually return to common movements. In early life this bone may be separated as an epiphysis, which, comparatively, is a slight accident. FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. These are of very frequent occurrence', and especially those of the middle ribs, by reason of the length of the bones; while the lower ones, being more moveable and flex- ible, and the upper shorter and stronger, and more protected, are more rarely broken. The division of a rib occurs most easily near its greatest convexity. When one is struck by a jioint or corner, it will probably give way singly at the place of contact. It is most common, however, to find two or more ribs simultaneously fractured. These fractures are usually either simple, or complicated by lesions of the pleura and lung; yet even in the latter case, though caution is indispensable, serious mischief does not often ensue. ' Ml'. Lonsdale stales that 3.57 cases of broken ribs occurred amongst I.'HIO cases of fracture wbieli indis- criniinately presented tbcmsclvcs at the Middlesex bospital ; i. c. about of the whole number. (I’lae- tieal Treatise on b’raeturcs.) II 2104 FRvVCTURE. Some defined or broad pressure may bend the bones beyond their power of endurance, and cause them to break outwards at a dis- tance from, and perhaps on both sides of the part pressed ; or, more rarely, direct violence drives the breaking bone or one of its frag- ments outw'ards. The comminution and dis- placement are mostly slight. A single rib being /ractured, and well confined between two others, is scarcely capable of displace- ment, It is occasionally somewhat different, as when several ribs are broken together, and perhaps in more places than one. The ribs may be broken by muscular efforts, but, as in the case of all bones, w'e find that the muscles do not produce these fractures most frequently at the time of their fullest development. Under healthy circum- stances, the nutrition and power of the bone and muscle are equal, and on a par with the w'ants of each; fracture, therefore, caused by muscle, seems incompatible here, or nearly so ; but an error in the figure of the bone, or an over-strained position, or slight supple- mentary violence from without, may suffice to induce the fracture. Still, atrophy of bone, or hypertrophy of muscle, in undue proportion, are more commonly present. The cases in which many ribs were broken (p. 241) are illustrations of this view. Case^.—Mrs. R., set. 63, and seemingly older; extremely thin ; and though formerly strong, she had in her latter years experienced ranch increasing debility. In a primary at- tack of bronchitis, on coughing violently in bed, felt “ something crack in her side,” and the fifth and sixth ribs were found to be fractured a little nearer the sternum than the middle of the bones. This patient gradually recovered under simple treatment. Case.— Elizabeth S., aet. 59; similar in aspect to the preceding ; subject to dyspnoea, and painful pyrosis, with constipation; com- plained of cough, which she said was unusual, and an acute pain in the side, having two days before felt something give way in her side. The tenth rib was broken a little ante- rior to its angle; the hinder portion lay upon the anterior, and crepitus was readily pro- duced. A bandage afforded great relief, and she slowly recovered. In cases of suspected fracture, the surgeon, guided by the pricking pain, or the history of the accident, traces along the suspected rib with one or two fingers of both hands, vary- ing the pressure of either, in order to increase the irregularity of the fracture, or to produce crepitus: this also may be rendered evident to the palm covering the injured part during a rather forced respiration, or slight effort to cough. Much intervening fat or muscle, or but small degree of displacement, may render ' Mr. Nankevcll, in tlie Lend. Med. Otiz. .July 25, 183.5, relates these eases, and ho very justly reni.arks, that after a full inspiration the sudden aetion of the recti and oldiqui ahdoininis is amply equal to the effect produced. Ho also warns the ])ractitioncr against mistaking such cases for deeper inflammations. the diagnosis uncertain; but it is an esta- blished rule to treat a suspected fracture as a certain one; and the careful surgeon will be slow to deviate from this injunction. Haemoptysis sometimes accompanies frac- ture of the ribs, in consequence of the forcible concussion, or of a deep puncture, or only bruise of the lung. It forms an additional call for venesection. If a spicula of bone have pierced the pleura costalis, some little blood may escape into the serous cavity ; but this is hardly ever hurtful. Pleuritis is rather more to be feared ; and if the lung also be wounded, we have a remark- able and peculiar train of events. Air escapes into the pleural cavity, the lung collapses,- and very soon the expiratory effort only serves to drive air from the cavity of the pleura into the cellular membrane about the fracture, whence it may be propelled to a great extent beneath the skin of the trunk or even of the limbs. After this, in the repara- tive course of events, inflammation closes the superficial puncture in the lung, and this organ again expands as the gases within the pleura become absorbed, and leave the lung. to be acted on by the expiratory motions. (See Wounds.) The air diffused in the cellular membrane seems quite innocuous, unless by its great quantity ; and although, in truth, the fracture- is open, it would appear that it is only in dis- eased constitutions that serious disorganiza- tions in the chest can arise. Old adhesions ■ betw'een the lung and ribs may prevent or limit the pneuma-thorax ; and we do not know that superficial emphysema can be pro- duced to any extent without collapse of the lung in part or wholly. (See the article Emphysema.) The peculiar feeling of mi- nute weak crackling, w’hich is afforded on pressing any part of the emphysematous inte- gument, can scarcely be mistaken. In the treatment of fractures of the ribs,- rest and the antiphlogistic means are the more requisite, as there is reason to apprehend injury and inflammation of the deeper parts. One free bleeding should hardly ever bo omitted. A firm broad roller of flannel is to be securely applied around the chest, to con- fine the ribs. A copious purgatioii will con- siderably facilitate the phrenic respiration. A compress on the seat of the fracture Mill probably arrest the progress of emphysema. It should be formed so broad as not to de- press the broken bones ; or it might be circu- lar and concave. The bandage requires to be ajiplied almost every day. A strap over the shoulder is sometimes employed to secure it, and various surgeons prefer to have recourse to different kinds of belts, which arc fastenc M'ith buckles or a lace. Mr. S. Cooper re- commends a com])rcss to be applied if disjilaccment be outwards; but there niust^ e some danger of inflaming the surface, or ni juring the lung, if any efficient compression be cmidoyed in such a case; and in geneia no permanent evil results from sue i ‘105 FRACTURE. placements. He also recommends, when the fractured part is “ depressed inwards,” that a compress be applied over the anterior i and posterior part of the bone, (if it may be I at a distance from its fracture); but here again I conceive the violence, to be efficient, must be insupportable, and by no means safe. In simple cases the patient may soon begin to move about; and at the end of a week the bandage is not indispensable, though desira- ble ; and especially to obviate the effects of irregular efforts. Fractures of the cartilages of the —Not- withstanding their elasticity, the cartilages of the ribs may be broken. Those only which I join on to the sternum seem ever susceptible of this injury, w’hich always presents itself in the form of a clean fracture, transverse, J like that of a radish, and always the result of direct force. It is easy to recognise it by I the projection of the outer portion. This 1 part is readily pressed into its place, but }. even with the most studied use of graduated i compresses and bandages, it is very difficult ‘ to retain it in situ ; and the reparation is ^ almost invariably attended with evident de- i formity ; which is, however, harmless. When San opportunity is offered of examining the state of these parts after consolidation, the fragments are found still cartilaginous, but united by means of an osseous ring or tube, j The importance of this case depends on the (violence done to the thorax. Its treatment :y: resembles that of fractures of the ribs. It is ia very uncommon accident. The separation of a costal cartilage from its ribs is an occasional occurrence, but there is little that is peculiar in the nature or course of this injury. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE*. d The slender form and unprotected situation ■ lof the clavicle, render it readily liable to direct i| injuries and consequent fracture ; and its use ijas the most fixed support of the scapula, to I jaid in the many actions of the arm, as readily II accounts for its frequent fracture by indirect I violence or counter-stroke. ’• Fractures mostly occur in the middle por- . jtion, more rarely in the scapular extremity. '4 They may happen also at any [)oint, by di- drcctly concentrated force; in which case, pro- .'portionate injury, as contusions and cornini- i notion, may be expected. ! I have under rny immediate observation 'I twenty-two examples of broken clavicles re- >4paired. Of these, fifteen have been divided jilclose to the middle, or very slightly external f sjto this point; but two of the same have also ibeen divided at about one inch from their louter extremities. Four other specimens have been broken transversely in the situation last named. The remaining three have been * ' Sec Uictionnaiic do Med. ct do Chir. Pratinucs. . Art. Fractures. f ’ Mr. r>onsdalc’s t.al)lc makes these fractures to I' "ompriso !, of all the fractures that occur in the vici- f nity of the Middlesex hospital. fractured about one inch from their sternal ends. One of the cases said to have been broken near the middle has had about three- fourths of an inch isolated by a double trans- verse fracture, which is also split longitudi- nally into two parts. The proportions stand thus :— Clavicles broken at n It tt tt tt tt It tt the middle simply „ twice „ & outer end outer end only inner end only 12 1 say 4 21 4; 3 Thus it is very evident, that the strong cylindrical arch or bow, formed by the inner half of the collar bone, is very little suscept- ible of fracture, although much exposed to direct blows. As a general rule it may be stated, that fractures take place in large pro- portion towards the outer end of this arch, and but rarely near its inner extremity. With respect to the outer half of the bone, fracture is still uncommon, and almost confined to a transverse division, about one inch from the outer point. It is said that on some occasions, as wdien the arms are extended in a fall, or when the fall happens directly on the point of the shoulder, the fracture of the clavicle may take place very obliquely, and the point be forced through the skin. Even the great vessels beneath the clavicle may be punctured by a fragment of the bone. When the fracture happens between the scapular extremity of the bone and the coraco- clavicular ligaments, there is little, if any, dis- cernible displacement; the strong ligamentous bands, connecting the one portion with the acromion, and the other with the coracoid process, preserving the natural juxta-position, and sometimes so effectually that the arm is enabled to perform most of its wonted motions. A little depression of the outer fragment may frequently be observable, or may be produced by adding a little to the weight of the arm ; and this portion will appear more in the line of the clavicle when the head of the humerus is raised to the shoulder. At the same time, with one hand upon the fracture, and the other now and then elevating the shoulder, a crepitus may mostly be discovered. When the clavicle is fractured on the inner side of the coraco-clavicular ligaments, or about its middle portion, displacement is more manifest—the arm falls, dragging with it the scapular extremity ; and the depression is per- haps increased by the deltoid muscle. The patient generally bends his head and body toward the injured side, while he takes off the weight of the artn from the broken clavi- cle by supporting it at the elbow with the op|)osite hand. The pcctorales draw the shoulder forwards and inwards, and the outer portion is thus carried beneath the inner, which projects above it. The length of the clavicle, and its supimrt to the shoulder being no longer preserved, the arm falls forwards, and the shoulder is as much nearer the sternum as the general connexions of theIOC) rilACTUJlE. sciipiila linvc allowed the fractured ends to overlap. The sii])port of the clavicle being lost, the humerus con no longer rotate, to allow the hand to bo brought to the forehead, (b’cpitus is felt when the shoulder is moved ; but the fracture is so evident, and the pain )>roduced by motion so extreme, that it is wrong to seek for it. The power of the costo-clavicular ligament, and the antagonistic action of the sterno- deido mastoideiis and the pectoralis major muscles, prevent the sternal portion being much moved from its natural situation ; and it is important to bear in mind, that it is the outer portion which is displaced. The treatment practised formerly for a frac- tured clavicle is still adopted by many; namely, to draw the shoulders back, and hx them in that position. If much effort is necessary, the patient is so placed, that an assistant can easily apply his knee between the shoulders, and thus foi’cibly draw them backwards with his two hands ; and while they are thus fixed, the surgeon places one end of a roller (com- monly called the figure of 8 bandage) in the axilla of the injured side, and applying the bandage across the back obliquely upwards, winds it over the opposite shoulder, through the axilla, and over the first shoulder to the point of commencement. Having made this (figure of 8) turn secure, several similar turns are made successively. This method, how- ever, necessarily brings the scapula towards the spine, and the outer portion of the clavicle towards the sternum, increasing instead of diminishing the over-lapping of the broken ends. The tightness of this bandage may also produce considerable excoriation. Keis- ter has recommended an iron cross in these cases, and a corslet has been described by Brasdor, in the Mem. de I’Acad. de Chir. (See art. Bandage.) Boyer remarks, that these, and Brunninghausen’s leather strap, are merely the figure of 8 bandage in principle; but in truth, with care and slight modifica- tions, as, for instance, sufficient pads in the axilla, these methods are not inefficient. The figure of 8 bandage itself may be well used, together with a sling, in fractures ex- ternal to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. To be well assured that the reduction is properly effected, it is necessary to see that the scapular extremity is carried outwards as well a.s backwards—in short, into a continuous line with the sternal portion. Desault produced this effect by a fidcrum in the axilla, u.“ing the humerus as a lever. A firm conic cushion, made of hair or flock, live or six inches long, and three inches and a (jiiartcr thick at its base, was secured with its base in the axilla. (Sec fig. 151, art. Bandage.) A girdle of linen cloth was contrived by Boyer, to supersede the too complicated Ijandaging of Desault. It is fixed round the Inmk, f>u a level with the elbow, by straps and buckles. A band of quilled cloth, four or five iiicbcs wide, embraces the lower third of the injured arm, and is secured to the girdle by double straps and buckles, both before and behind ; they may therefore be tightened at pleastire. The ‘height of the girdle is regulated by a brace or strap over each shoulder, and the pad for the axilla is adapted as by Desault. An apparatus also, uniting all the advan- tages of Desault’s bandage, was used so long since as 1816, by Dr. S. H. Cole, of Baltimore ; it was made of leathern straps and buckles, and was more easily applied and permanent; it was also so contrived as to avoid the incon- venient pressure which Desault’s bandage produced on the mammae of females. Dr. Cole’s apparatus was successfully employed by himself in the worst cases, and, as well as some suggestions, by Dr. S. Brown, of New York, for the better application of Desault’s bandage, is much used through the American States. Many years ago, Mr. Earle also recom- mended a simple apparatus, applicable both to fractures and cases of dislocation of this bone, as well as to other injuries of these parts. It must be particularly remembered, that the indications to be attended to, in the treat- ment of these fractures, are, that the scapular extremity of the clavicle may not have the weight of the arm upon it, which a simple sling will prevent; that the action of the pec- toralis major, and other muscles acting towards the sternum, may be counter-balanced by some outward extension ; and that the prominent portion of the fractured clavicle be not care- lessly treated by pressure, as the actual and chief part displaced ; such means having often induced protrusion through the integuments. Complicated apparatus will always be lit- tle attractive to the generality of surgeons : rollers in particular arc insecure. A belt is necessarily too tight or too loose, and always tends to yield, and allow the elbow to pass backwards or outwards. The only fixed points by which the elbow may be permanently sus- pended are the neck and the opposite shoulder. A simple cap, as of linen, is by far the most certain means to lodge the elbow. A band for a neck-sling (not a handkerchieQ and another suspended by the sound shoulder and axilla, will retain this cap with the least local uneasiness, A simple circular band may be required to keep the elbow close to the body. Sometimes also it may be well for a time to keep the head forwards, as by pillows, . in order to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle. It should not be concealed, that the great- est difficulty is often experienced in maintain- ing, from day to day, the coaptation which is so readily produced for a minute. Notwit i- staiiding the greatest care, and even severity, whatever the apparatus be, the weight of t arm gradually, if not quickly, produces i jilaccmcnt. Pcllctan, at the Hotcl-Dion, n Paris, and others, have been led to forego ' • use of bandages; and, placing the 1’^*'*^.','. bed on his back, with the arm on a pn > ^FRACTURE. 107 have left the repair almost wholly to nature. I This practice was found to lead to somewhat 1 more deformitj'^ than the preceding. It is, I however, apparent, that when nice reunion is I most important, then the recumbent posture is a very desirable part of the treatment. Paralysis of the arm often occurs, from i weighty bodies fulling on the shoulder, causing direct injury or subsequent disorganization of i the nerves. A case is related by Mr. Earle of commi- nuted fracture of the clavicle, where the axil- lary plexus was crushed, and paralysis, with a fearful susceptibility to change of tempera- ture in the limb, was occasioned. The like effects are connected occasionally with lux- ations of the humerus. One of the twenty-two fractures in the fore- going table was peculiar, with respect to the displacement which attended it; for the bone being divided a little external to the sternal end or head, the inner broken surface pre- sented upwards, and thus a very deformed union resulted. It is desirable to be aware that such a circumstance may occur, although it does not seem certainly under the control of posture or bandages. FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. Although a thin and expanded bone, the scapula, from its site and mobility, is rarely subject to fracture; and, with the exception of one or two of its prominent points, it may I almost be said never to be broken, unless from overw'helming crushes. Considering the extent of the bone, its constant employment, and its general tenuity, there is something remarkable in its comparative immunity from injuries. Its location and its happy adapta- tions are, probably, the chief causes of its safety h The more common seats of fracture are, ' first, the acromion process; secondly, the infe- rior angle ; thirdly, the body of the bone ; and, fourthly, the coracoid process. The ar- ticular portion is greatly protected by large surrounding muscles, the projections of the head of the humerus externally, and the line of the clavicle in front; so that fractures of this and the central part of the bone require such concentrated violence to produce them, that the concomitant injuries to the softer 1 parts, or even to the thoracic viscera, form the chief cause of alarm. Ihe acromion process is the part of the sea- ' pula most frequently broken ; it generally gives way from a direct blow, as a fall upon the part. It^ may occur in any part of its length, from its base to its apex, but gene- rally it breaks in a transverse direction, about half an inch from its extremity. The weight Mr. Lonailalc sets down Hi cases of fracture of t scapula 111 1 )01 ot fractures generally; i.c. (i of t body, !i of tlie acroimoii, and ‘2 of tlio cervix. Of i fbe iw! / 'W'* **“ «<-■“» d: i»rdoS,L '' "" of the arm, and the muscular contraction of the deltoid combine to lower the fractured portion, while the scapula is raised and drawn backwards by the actions of the trapezius and levator muscles. The shoulder becomes less round, and the head of the humerus sinks as far as its liga- ment will allow it, the power of the deltoid being diminished by the loss of its attach- ment. A depression will also be discovered on tracing the acromion from the spine towards its junction with the clavicle ; and the space between the sternal end of the clavicle, and the extremity of the injured shoulder, com- pared with the sound side, will be found di- minished. On pressing up the head of the humerus, and rotating the shaft wdth one hand applied over the acromion, a crepitus will be per- ceived, which distinguishes the case from one of dislocation ; elevating tfie humerus also restores the usual round appearance of the shoulder, but the deformity will immediately recur on withdrawing the support. The management of this accident requires the arm to be so raised, that the head of the humerus may force up the broken process; an assistant, at the same time, pushing the sca- pula in an opposite direction, or downw'ard and forwards, while a roller is applied round the arm. Sir A. Cooper recommends the elbow to be firmly suspended by the side, and inclined a little backwards; and to be fixed in that position by a roller, with a considerable cushion between it and the side, in order to relax the deltoid muscle. Ligamentous union is mostly the result of the practice hitherto pursued, from the diffi- culty of keeping the parts together. The objects to be fulfilled, are, first, to press the loose fragment upwards ; secondly, to relax the deltoid, which displaces it; and thirdly, to exert some pressure on the point of the acromion, by which the coaptation may be made close. It would appear both easy and desirable to pursue these objects more strictly than we are usually recommended to do ; but, at the same time, the powers of the arm not being materially affected by the want of bony union, in most cases both the patient and the surgeon may naturally be less anxious about the best result. A separation of more or less of the iiifcrior angle of the scapula is not very uncommon, for the reason, that tlic pai t is little able to elude direct blows. There is not often much attendant displacement, because a moderate violence may induce the fracture. If motion be conmiunicated to the body, for tlie purpose of diagnosis, the separated angle is more or less unaffected by that motion, and vice versa, when the angle is moved. The fragment, if small, may be ilrawu forward by the serratus major anticus; if larger, the at- tachments of the tores major and latissimus dorsi draw it still more forward and upward.108 FRACTURE. In tlie treatment it is practicable, and, indeed, natural, to relax all the muscles which tend to produce displacement; and accordingly we find various examples of fracture in museums, repaired without material deformity. Some of these, however, have been only fissures and imperfect fractures. It would seem that the angle may be so detached as to be reunited by ligament only, which is an event to be carefully guarded against. To cause coaptation, the fracture being attended with displacement, we should endeavour to make the body of the scapula approach the broken portion ; and thus con- fine the parts, the elbow being flexed and bound to the side, while the fore-arm is sup- ported by a sling, and the angle of the scapula directed to its place by compresses and a roller. The fractures of the hody of the scapula are said to be more generally transverse than vertical. Crepitus is mostly observable ; and in fractures involving the solid spine of the bone, there is proportionate contusion, and generally a characteristic irregularity. Con- finement of the arm to the side, by a few turns of a roller, acting also as a support to the elbow, is sufficient bandaging. Sabre wounds of this bone. Dr. Hennen observes, present no difficulties during or after reparation, provided the parts be preserved from motion during treatment. Occasionally all kinds of injury may rather cause Assuring of the bone than separation of its parts. The coracoid ^^rocess may be broken by a direct blow, and being separated from the scapula, it is drawn forward and downward by the united actions of the pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps. The fragment is, for the most part, easily dis- coverable. By bending the arm forward on the breast, the deranging muscles are to be relaxed ; and another object to be secured is, by laying the patient on pillows, to keep the shoulder downward and forward, towards the fractured process. Gentle compression, by means of a pad and bandage, may assist to replace the process. There seems to be no better prospect than that of ligamentous union ; but it is desirable that this kind of reparation should be efficient; that is, that the ligament should be strong and short. The new organization which fills up the cell of the fracture, will, in the main, be equal to the degree of separation; and the conversion of this into ligament in a healthy person, will be speedily effected ; but if the j)arts be too early put on the stretch, the tissue will become finally elongated. The simple tension of the muscles excites nutri- tion, until the new product is able to resist more extension, and so on j)rogressivcly ; but if the ligament be once overstretched, nature has not set moans of shortening it. Very cripjjlcd motion, atrophy of the mus- cles, and even paralysis of the arm occasion- ally follow fractures about the shouhlcr-joint ; and this is, of course, a solid reason for gentle and careful treatment, as well as for giving a cautious prognosis. Whenever the contusion is great, the safety of all the tissues requires active depletion ; and it is better rather to exceed the means of arresting inflammation, than to suffer disorganization to be effected. Fracture of the neck of the scapula.—This accident has, I think, been heretofore de- scribed only theoretically. I have never seen nor heard of a dissected specimen, in proof of its occurrence, as a simple accident; and, excepting by the aid of a chisel and mallet, I conceive it would be very difficult to produce the division of the neck of the scapula even in the dead body. The nearest approach to this imaginary injury, that I have seen, was in the case of a general crush of the body of the scapula; where, a line of fracture sepa- rated the notch and neck of the bone from the broken body, so that even here, it might be said, the neck itself was the only part that had escaped. For the particulars of this case the reader is indebted to the zeal of Mr. Uock and Mr. Hilton, my able colleagues in the school of Guy’s Hospital, who went out of town to make the examination. A moderately tall man, of spare habits, aged 44, and apparently healthy, being in a state of intoxication, was thrown out of a cart ; and he seems to have fallen on the back part of his head, and also on the right shoulder. His most serious injuries were of the head. A transverse fracture of the scapula was dis- covered by Mr. Cock with some difficulty. Crepitus was not felt on pressing its processes and rotating the humerus; but the hand on the inferior angle of the scapula detected grating. The roundness of the shoulder was not lost, but there was an incomplete disloca- tion of the outer end of the clavicle upwards. The figure of 8 bandage was applied with pads in the axillae. He survived only eight days. The coraco-clavicular ligaments were not torn through. Fig. 45. Fig. i517, represents the ple.nuid ravtip of the seapulu, with the ennw.nid process, the. notch, and parts of the upper and lower spinous fossa, as detached by a com- plicated fracture.FRACTURE. 109 The injury to the scapula consisted of sepa- rations between the spine, with a considerable part of the supra-spinous fossa, and the neck, and the inferior portion of the bone. A line of fracture ran from the posterior costa along the under side of the base of the spine; and another from the superior costa, leaving a little of the supra-s])inous fossa attached to the cervix, and also half an inch of the foun- dation of the root of the spine ; this line ter- minated at about an inch and one third from the glenoid cavity, in a third line, w'hich ex- tended from near the inferior edge of the glenoid cavity more than half way towards the inferior angle, tending to isolate the thick edge of the inferior costa. Thus, I think, w’e may see, that, as the spine and acromion are usually a great pro- tection to the neck, so here it w'as not until the spine was knocked aw’ay that another fracture could traverse its base, or that a fracture across the base of the acromion may be more easily produced by a broad pressure than one across the true cervix. In short, taking a sound scapula in hand, and marking out the zigzag lines and oblique planes which a fracture of the neck must describe, and considering the extremely limited directions in which violence can reach the neck, I entirely discredit the possibility of the frac- ture’s occurrence as a simple injury. Sir A. Cooper’s account, however, oFfrac- ture of the neck of the scapula, is deserving of attention for many reasons ; and it is to be remembered that disease, or peculiar con- formation, may conduce to this fracture ; and we cannot deny that even direct violence may cause it. Sir A. Cooper thus describes these cases:— “ Symptoms.—This accident is much more liable to be mistaken for dislocation than the preceding. When 1 speak of fracture of the cervix scapulae, I mean a fracture through the narrow part of the bone, immediately opposite the notch of the superior costa ; by which the glenoid cavity becomes detached from the scapula, and the head of the bone falls with it into the axilla. The shoulder also falls; there is a hollow below the acromion from the sink- ing of the deltoid muscle ; and the head of the os humeri can be felt in the axilla. “Case.—Mrs. R., in February, 1834, was thrown from a gig by the w-heel running upon a bank. She was sbirmed by the fall, and remained insensible for some little time ; she then found that her head, shoulder, hip, and ankle, on the right side, were much bruised ; so much so that she was unable to move cither ot them, from pain and swelling ; the chief bruise on the shoulder was at the upper and back part. Thinking that the stiffness of the shoulder, as well as of the hip and ankle, arose merely from the bruise, no surgeon saw her until ten days after the accident, when she found that, notwithstanding the swelling had subsided, she was unable to move her arm. Iho surgeon, mistaking the case for dislocation, placed his knee in the axilla, and made violent extension ; finding, however, that upon removing the knee, the shoulder again assumed its original flattened appearance, he said that there was a fracture somewhere, but could not say exactly at what part; he then placed a pad in the axilla, and put on a figure of 8 bandage, confining the arm to the side by another bandage. Swelling and in- flammation about the shoulder-joint followed the use of the extending force, to such an extent as to render the removal of the bandage immediately necessary. Leeches, cold lotions, and strict antiphlogistic regimen reduced this ; and in a week or ten days the bandages were again applied, and continued for six weeks ; being renewed several times duringthat period. At the end of this time all the bandages were removed, and the patient desired gradually to use the arm as much as she was able; she could not, however, use it in the slightest degree, and even the passive motion made use of greatly increased her suffering, and pro- duced several attacks of inflammation of the part. These w'ere reduced as before, and she continued the passive motion, under the di- rection of her surgeon, (notwithstanding that it much increased her suffering,) until July, when the pain which the slightest motion gave her had increased to such an extent that she could bear it no longer. In the com- mencement of August, at the request of her brother, she came to tovvn for further advice, when the state of the case was as follows. “ The right shoulder was flattened, the arm dropped, the coracoid process of the affected side was on a plane nearly an inch lower than the opposite, the head of the bone and edge of the glenoid cavity might be felt in the axilla, and bj”^ placing the finger upon the under edge of that cavity, and raising it, the whole arm was reduced to its natural appearance, and at the same time a distinct crepitus was felt. There w'as some deformity at the top of the shoulder, however, still remaining, from the clavicle having been frac- tured close to its acromial extremity, and from its having united without being reduced ; it was the acromial portion wdiich in this case rode over the end of the sternal. A crepitus was also distinctly felt, by placing the fore and middle finger upon the coracoid process, and the thumb on the back part of the shoul- der, and thus moving the glenoid cavity from side to side, marking the case clearly to be one of non-united fracture of the cervix of the scapula. “ A thick cushion w’as therefore placed in the axilla, and the shoidder being raised to its natural position, a bandage w'as passed under the arm and over the shoulder, being at the same time passed once or twice around the chest to prevent its slipping oflP the shoul- der. “ The arm was confined to the side, and the elbow supported by a pasteboard sling. In this way was the patient made comi^aratively easy, the natural roundness of the shoulder restored, and she was enabled to turn and110 FRACTURE. move in bed, which, before the shoulder was fixed, she was unable to do, from the great l)ain it occasioned. Case.—In the year 1829, I was consulted by Mr. Alderman Partridge, of Colchester, respecting a case of this accident, which he described in the following words :—• “ ‘ Mr. P., of Colchester, met with an acci- dent about five months since, by a fall from his chaise. I was requested to meet Dr. Nunn, who had been in attendance for two or three days ; and it then appeared to have been a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, and I could see no reason to doubt but that Dr. Nunn had reduced it ; but I must confess that the tumefaction and tension were so considerable that it became a difficult mat- ter to decide : however, both from what he himself stated at the time, as well as from Dr. Nunn’s and my own personal observation, I gave it as my opinion that it was reduced, although that shoulder appeared rather lower than the other. This I had observed in other cases, but in this instance it struck me to be rather more than common, and led me to conclude (which I stated at the time) that a considerable portion of the glenoid cavity had been fractured off. I saw him several times afterwards, and although the swelling continued for several weeks, still it became more and more observable that some very serious injury had been done to the glenoid cavity ; and M'hen I saw him at about a month or six weeks from the accident, I could, by placing my hand in the axilla, and pushing at the elbow, bring the head of the humerus up, and rotate it in the glenoid cavity, and still persisted in my former opinion. I was again requested to see him about a week since, when I found the head of the bone resting, where you will, I doubt not, find it; and con- veying to the feel a certain crepitus, which still leads me to suppose that the glenoid cavity has received the injury I have de- scribed, and how far the chances go for any benefit by an effort to rejfface it after such a lapse of time I must leave to you.’ “ The degree of deformity produced by this accident depends upon the extent of lace- ration of a ligament which passes from the under part of the spine of the scapula to the glenoid cavity, and which is not generally described in anatomical books. If this be torn, the glenoid cavity and the head of the os humeri fall deeply into the axilla, but the displacement is much less if this remain whole. "Diagnosis.—The diagnostic marks of this accident are three : firstly, the facility with which the parts arc replaced ; secondly, the immediate fall of the head of the bone into the axilla, when the extension is removed ; and, thirdly, the crepitus which is felt at the (ixtrernity of the coracoid process of the sca- pula, when the arm is rotated. The best method of discovering the cre])itus is, for the surgeon’s hand to be placed over the top ot the shoulder, and the ))oint of the fore-finger to be rested on the coracoid process; the arm being then rotated, the crepitus is directly perceived, because the coracoid process being attached to the glenoid cavity, and bein<>' broken off with it, although itself uninjured, the crepitus is communicated through the medium of that process. _ Case.—A young lady was thrown from a gig, by the fall of the horse, in the Strand, and being carried to her house, a surgeon in the neighbourhood was sent for, who told her the shoulder was dislocated : by extension all the appearances of dislocation were removed, and he bound up the arm. On the following morning he requested me to see the case, as the arm, he said, was again dislocated. On examination 1 found the head of the bone in the axilla, and the shoulder so fallen and flattened as to give to the accident many of the characters of dislocation : however, by elevating the shoulder, and by raising the arm at the elbow, and the head of the bone from the axilla, it was immediately replaced ; but when 1 gave up this support the limb instantly sunk again. I then rotated the elbow, and pressing the coracoid process of the scapula with my fingers, by grasping the top of the shoulder, directly felt a crepitus. Having satisfactorily ascertained the nature of the accident, I placed a thick cushion in the axilla, and drawing the shoulder into its natural position, secured it by the application of a clavicle bandage, and in seven w'eeks the part united without deformity. “ Treatment.—The treatment of this fracture consists in attention to two principles. The first is to carry the head of the os humeri out- wards ; and the second, to raise the glenoid cavity and arm. The former is effected by a thick cushion placed in the axilla, which presses the head of the bone and glenoid cavity outwards, and this may be confined by the clavicle bandage ; and the latter is pro- duced by placing the arm in a short sling, and thus the head of the os humeri being raised supports the glenoid cavity and cervix scapu- lae, and keeps it steadily in its place until union is produced. The time required for recovery from these accidents in the adult is from ten to twelve weeks : in the very young, all the motions of the limb are restored in a shorter period, but it is a long time before the limb recovers its strength.” Mr. Greenwood, surgeon, of Horselydown, informs me, that some j'ears ago an instance of fracture of the neck of the scajiula, in which both himself and Sir A. Cooper were interested, was sujiposcd to have occurred in the case of an old man who survived the injury six or seven years. The original sym- ])tonis were those n hich are still commonly said to characterise the fracture of the neck of the scapula. Sir A. Cooper dissected and removed the jiarts, but botli himself and Mt- Greenwood were fully satisfied, that there was no injury to the scapula, and that the jirinciiial lesion was a fracture, separating a segmen ^ of the head of the humerus, which "US t **Ill FRACTURE. I placed from the cavity of the joint, and lay I near the venter of the scapula. Mr. Green- I wood also informs me, that he distinctly un- j derstood Sir A. Cooper to say, that this ol)- I servation materially altered his opinion con- cerning the cases usually considered as frac- tures of the cervix scapulm. This I find was decidedly the same patient, whose case is related in the new edition of Sir Astley’s work (p. 41). This topic will be resumed with the consideration of luxations of the SHOULDER. FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. These injuries are proportionately of less I frequent occurrence than our introductory i tables indicate. Mr. Lonsdale gives more i complete data for stating them at f'g of all : fractures. Childhood and old age seem par- I ticularly liable to them. The lower end of the humerus is broken ) generally by direct violence, but the rest of i the bone is about equally subject to the ; effects of counter-stroke and direct blows. Examples of fi-acture of the humerus by i muscidar exertion, though rare, are still un- doubted. It is not, however, the mere strain of muscle that breaks the bone, but a violent impulse with the whole mass of the arm, and, perhaps, an additional weight in the hand. A 'i labourer, aet. 36, occasionally employed as a r, coal-whipper, was casually tempted to throw I up a cricket-ball violently, and to a great dis- II tance. He felt, he said, as if he “ had thrown |i his arm away.” He was quite sober, and did I: not fall or receive any blow; but some want 1 of skill to regulate the effort may however be 1 presumed. The humerus was broken three I inches above the elbow. His health and ske- ' leton indicated no predisposition to fracture, but the proportionate development of the muscles is not described ‘. A very tall, powerful man, aet. 26, sat oppo- site another, each one resting an elbow on a table, and pressing palm against palm to try which was the stronger; after straining for ■ some time, the first felt a sudden snap, ‘ like the report of a gun,’ and could hardly ■ believe, but that some one had given him a blow. His humerus was broken, about three 1 inches above the condyles. It united in the I usual way. Mr. Lonsdale describes this case, •I and refers to another just like it. We may ■ I compare the injury in these cases to breaking •. a stick in its middle, by force applied with one ii harifl at each end. The same writer relates I the case of a man, mt. 26, who broke his hu- I merus at the same part, by striking another in the face with his fist. The following instance of partial fracture, or bending of the humerus, is probably more instructive than a more strongly marked case. A weakly child, about nine years of age, while cotifincd with a sore leg, fell from his cot; the consequence of which was pain, swelling, and extreme lenderncss of the left elbow. Leeches * .Mr. Scaioii, l.orul. Med. r,'a/.. Aug. 183,“j. and cold reduced these symptoms in the course of a week, and not until after this, could any sign of fracture be distinguished. Now, however, the humerus appeared to yield slightly at its middle. Splints were applied for three weeks, and on removing them, the humerus was distinctly felt (in the slender arm) to be enlarged at its centre, as by re- pairing callus Such cases are not very un- common in infancy; they claim the gentlest investigation, and are easily treated. So far from blaming the late discovery of the acci- dent, my conclusion is, that even the most watchful and tender surgeon might not de- tect anything before the reparative thickening. Any portion of the humerus may be frac- tured ; the shaft, the condyles, or the surgical or anatomical neck. The surgical neck is a descriptive appellation, generally meant to include the whole space between the head of the bone, and the insertions of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major mus- cles ; the neck, anatomically considered, being merely the narrow line around the articular surface, between it and the tuberosities. Mr. Lonsdale gives 89 cases of fracture of the shaft of the humerus as proportionate to 13 of the neck, and 16 of the condyles. Fractures of the humerus for the most part take place transversely, and rarely with much obliquity through the shaft; and they occur very much oftener as simple than as open fractures. The displacement of parts will be various, according to the situation of the fracture; thus there is but little displacement in transverse fractures, which occur below the insertion of the deltoid muscle; the anterior and posterior muscles preserving the broken surfaces almost in apposition ; whilst, in fractures of the neck of the humerus, whether transverse or ob- lique, the lower portion is always drawn in- ward and upward. Oblique fractures are most usually, if not always attended with displace- ment, the resistance to the long muscles being absent, or much diminished in this species of fracture, and consequently there is a very characteristic shortening of limb. The symptoms of these fractures are gene- rally most distinct. The shortened condition, or angular deformity of the limb, a very evi- dent crepitus produced on passing the frac- tured surfaces across each other, pain and loss of power, but great mobility, combined with the history, make the nature of the case ma- nifest at a glance ; yet we shall find that there arc exceptions to this statement. A crc])itus may sometimes be difficult to obtain, and a kind of crackling, sometimes resulting from inHammation of the joint, may be deceptive. Fractures of the neck of the humerus may occur, that, in some respects, put on the ordinary ai)pcarances of dislocation. To distinguish such cases, close observa- tions will be necessary ; but attention will , ^ Ibdcigli, in the India Med. Juunnil, May, 1 o37.ERACTUllE. U2 generally discover the presence of other avail- able signs. The acromion will be found less prominent, and there will be more vacancy in the axilla in fracture than in dislocation. In fractures, the humerus yields much more readily in the hands of the surgeon than in cases of luxation. In fractures too, the humerus is more easily extended than in dislocation. The shorten- ing and displacement which slight extension obviates in cases of fracture, returns as soon as the extension is discontinued. The deltoid is shortened, and swollen with the shortening of fracture ; but the association of genuine crepitus with the above described mobility, will be deemed the most conclusive signs. The combination of luxation with fracture is not very unfrequent (See article Luxations). The position of the arm, at the moment of receiving the injury, is known to influence or even determine the kind of accident that follows. When, therefore, the effects of dif- ferent positions, as inducing particular frac- tures or dislocations are understood, certain incidental marks, as bruises and the like, in- dicating the position the limb was caught in, (so to speak), may become subservient to dia- gnosis. During a fall, if the arm be confined to the side, whether by mechanical impediment or otherwise, the weight of the body so acting on the projection of the shoulder, may occasion fracture of the head or neck of the humerus. Marks of dirt upon the dress corresponding to the deltoid muscle, or contused marks on the skin of the shoulder, may be found in this case. If, however, the arm be extended for defence, dislocation of the humerus without fracture will probably result; and the hand will be marked by dirt, abrasions, or contu- sions. Ecchymosis is a symptom more com- mon to fracture than dislocation ; it is found on the cushion of the shoulder in the former case, but in the latter it is rather to be sought for upon the internal and fore part of the arm. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iii.) All the observations which do not inflict pain are to be made first, since the surgeon cannot investigate with his hands without doing some mischief. This is a caution which requires to be repeatedly dwelt upon, for many of our oldest surgeons are sad examples of violent manipulators. Comminution of the head of the humerus also, the result of severe direct blows, or of slighter violence in aged people, should not be too severely handled, for the sake of dia- gnosis. It is an accident not easily mistaken, unless for simpler contusions ; its treatment is rather passive, by means of rest in an easy and settled posture, with the arm by the side, or rather fixed near it. It would seem, from the examination of some specimens, that in a wasted humerus, as in the femur, a partial fracture may take |)lacc, in w Inch the under part of the neck gives way, and not the uj)i)cr ; the diagnosis and treatment, here, still more assimilate with those of contusion. Fig. 46. Fig. 318. Fracture of the neck of the humerus icith partial reparation; an isthmus of cancellated hone, near the middle of the line of fracture, would almost appear not to have been broken. The head of the bone is much deflected inwards—as it were, from a to b. The upper end of the shaft, c, is well eiwased in supplementary ossification, tvhich is united to a partial neic deposit on the upyper part. Bichat and Delpech each relate a case of fracture of the anatomical neck the humerus, found on dissection. Mr. Samuel Cooper also relates the case of a boy, at Bartholomew’s hospital, who had been treated for a supposed fracture of the cervix scajiulae, which ajipcars to have only become evident in its nature at the time Mr. Cooper saw him ; the irregular end of the humerus then forming a remarkable projection in front of the acromion. (Diet, of Bract. Surg. p. 591.) The case previously mentioned by Bichat, happened at the age of 17; and Sir A. Cooper considers that the accident occurs chiefly at early or else at advanced periods of life. He describes it as occurring at the junction of the ej)iphyses in the young, and at the same jiart in the old, from the bone in this place being of greater softness. Ecchymosis sometimes marks the deltoid muscle when the blow has been re- ceived on this part. Collections of blood also may take jilace i’rom the rujiturc of some of the articular vessels, and such should not generally be interfered with. Absorption is ,113 FRACTURE. known to be often very rapid from the loose tissues about tlie shoulder. Acute pain, and sometimes the sudden jar or sound of fracture, is experienced at the moment of the accident. Sudden immobility of the limb ensues, but it yields in the freest manner to every motion communicated to it; such, however, is attended with severe pain, and much mischief has occasionally resulted from undue surgical examination. With one hand grasping the head of the humerus, and with the other, or by the assist- ance of a second person, giving a rotatory motion to the shaft, the head of the humerus will be found to be motionless, and crepitus will be perceived, if not obscuied by swelling. The motionless condition of the head of the bone, also, will be a distinctive mark of a fracture below it. It is the lower fragment chiefly that is found displaced, the upper being acted upon by few muscles. Sir A. Cooper considered that the upper portion sinks into the axilla, and that it may also be felt in this position. Thus he explained the loss of the roundness of the shoulder. The projection of the lower portion of the humerus inward, while the elbow is inclined from the side, and incapable of being brought near it without pain, is the most common form of displacement. When the shaft is thrown outwards, the elbow is turned in- wards. There is seldom much displacement in regard to length, unless the fracture be very oblique, in which case the muscles may contract and shorten the limb considerably. It is necessary to be aware, that the soft and fragile state of the head of the humerus in some aged persons, admits of its enduring considerable lesion short of complete fracture. Indentation, impaction of the nead more or less deeply in the shaft, and in particular a yielding of the inferior part of the neck, form a little set of obscure injuries, that require the most careful apj)lication of the remedies for contusions or even fractures. A parallel to these injuries is found in certain lesions of the head of the femur h Very little extension, judiciously used ac- cording to the direction the shaft has assumed, will suffice for the reduction. The muscles will effect coaptation, and the principal diffi- culty will be to preserve it. Desault continued the extension till the arm was secured in its intended |)osition. A roller, wetted with the liq. plumbi diacet. dil., was first well aj)plied from the hand to the shoulder; a narrow si)lint was then placed in front, from the bend of the arm to the acromion; another on the outside to the same point, from the condyle ; and a third behind, from the olecranon to the margin of the axilla; fMc<bro-Chir. Trans, vol. xix.) de- scribes the occiirrcnee of fracture of the neck of the liumcrns, together with tliat of tlie cervix feinoiis, in the case of a female, ml. 79, who fell on her side. After ten nioiiths he found in the arm elastic reunion, in the thigh a false joint. the rest of the roller (or another one) was then employed downwards, over the splints to the place it began from. A cushion, the length of the arm, three or four inches thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, was then placed with its thick ex- tremity in the axilla, i. e., if the displacement was inwards, (to oppose the great pectoral and dorsal adductor?) but if outwards, which Desault found to be most frequently the case, the mass of cushion was placed between the elbow and the side, and the thin end in the axilla: it was then fastened in its place, and the arm w'as fixed upon it by a second roller, applied tightly below and loosely above, round the arm and body when the displacement was inwards ; but vice versa, the upper end of the shaft was tightly bandaged, to counterbalance the outward traction of the deltoid muscle, while the elbow, pressed outward by the pad, was only loosely confined in that position. A sling supported the hand, and the weight of the arm ; and the compression of muscles by the apparatus was considered sufficient to keep the shaft from being drawn upwaids. Sir A. Cooper recommended that the arm should be only gently supported, lest the bones should overlap, and deformity ensue. He previously applied a roller from the elbow to the shoulder-joint, then an inner and outer splint, secured by another roller, and a cush- ion in the axilla, to throw' out the head of the bone. Fractures of the lower part of the humerus are not infrequent. They may be either transverse or oblique, simple or complicated. The separation of the epiphysis in the young may rank with the first set. The most common of these fractures is the separation of the condyles from each other by a fissure, extending through the joint, and communicating above with an oblique or transverse fracture, thus dividing the humerus into three pieces. Fig. 47. Fig. 31.9. I'he. iiiftirior e.rtremHi/ of the humerus, shoiv- uuj the usual sUe oj three dijfereut fractures, in thaFRACTURE. longitudinal direction. The lines, a a, also indicate the course o/ transverse fracture, with some one of which the Jissuve.^ 6, is always combined. Sometimes the fracture through the joint is so oblique, that the external or internal con- dyle only is separated from the humerus. In any such case, acute pain mostly at- tends the least movements of the joint. The for e-arm retains a semi-flexed position, and considerable tumefaction round the joint quickly follows. The parts are occasionally so comminuted, and the injury so seriously complicated with laceration and contusion, as to require amputation : but on the whole, the small size of the entire joint, the limited extent of the synovial and cartilaginous sur- faces, and the accessible situation of all the parts with respect to surgical treatment, ren- der all cpes of injury, but those of extreme disorganization, comparatively safe in their results, and the removal of the limb unne- cessary. In the case of separation of the condyles from the shaft of the bone, and from each other, there is more deformity than M'hen a single condyle is detached. In the former case, too, the parts are more moveable, cre- pitus is more evident, and when pressure is applied, in front or behind, in the course of the longitudinal fracture, the fissure is said to be felt widening as the condyles separate. Pronation of the fore arm is observed also most generally to accompany this form of fracture. It almost invariably happens that fractures which are not transverse, or nearly so, involve the synovial cavity adjoining. An oblique line or plane of fracture, extending from above downwards and inwards, may isolate the outer condyle and trochlea; and in this case the posterior muscles of the fore-arm tend to dis- place the fragment downwards and backwards ; or the division may extend diagonally down- wards and outwards, separating the inner con- dyle with the trochlea, and it is drawn downwards and forwards by the musclesarising from it. In the Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physi- ology, (article 12lbow-joint) Mr. R. Adams relates the case of “ a young woman, who met with an oblique fracture of the external con- dyle of the humerus, near the elbow, when she was only five years of age. The outer condyle and capitulum of the humerus were detached obliquely from the shaft of the bone, and thrown backwards, carrying with them the head and upper extrcmitjy^ of the radius; she now has very good use ol her arm, but in consequence of the accident much deformity exists, particularly when she extends the tore- arm. The obtuse angle, salient internally, which the fore-arm forms with the arm in the natural state, when it is fully extended, and the hand supinated, docs not exist. On the contrary, in this case the salient angle is ex- ternal, and corresponds to the outer condyle and head of the radius, and the retiring angle is placed internally.” In the frm;ture of a single condyle, the parls are not far from being in due apposition,^ vet distinguishable. Desault relates a case of fracture of the ex- ornal coudy e, in which the li.nb was always observed to be rendered supine. ^ The outer condyle may be detached, and with the outer bend of the radius be forced upwards ; and M'hen the internal condyle is broken off, the ulna may lose its natural sun- port and project backward. The sejiaration of the condyles from the humerus just above the joint, is described by bir A. Coojier, as similating a dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards ; and crepitus,. he observes, is generally perceptible on rota-- ting the radius on the humerus. A ready ap- preciation of these circumstances, in the first pai t of the examination, may prevent more ■ painful and protracted attempts to distinguish the nature of the accident. If the case he that of fracture, slight extension restores the form of the joint, but the displacement will recur as soon as the extension is disconti- nued. In most cases of a detached condyle, how- ever, there is but little displacement, owing to the bones being situate between various opposite influences, both of bone and muscle; yet the parts may become separately dis- placed, forwards, backwards, or laterally, either in consequence of great violence or of special peculiarities of external force. When a single condyle is broken off, the extended position will best replace and retain it in its proper position h Two or three splints, kept on by a roller, should be applied according to circumstances. When both con- dyles are separated from the humerus, and from each other, two lateral splints are par- ticularly indicated; but when one only is se- parated, one lateral splint on that side will be sufficient. It is to be remembered, that a position, somewhat short of complete exten- sion, is that which is nearest to a state of repose, and, unless counter-indicated, should be preferred. The condyles being broken from the shaft, a still more flexed position seems desirable. For fractures including the two condyles. Sir A. Cooper recommended the reduction to be effected by bending the arm and drawing it forward, and that it should be afterwards main- tained by applying a roller. The splint is to be one formed at right angles, the upper part being placed behind the upper arm, the lower under the fore-arm; another splint is to be placed on the fore ])art of the upper arm, and the whole secured by straps. Evaporating lotions are to be used, and the arm kept in a sling. To prevent ankylosis, passive motion is to bo gently employed ; at the end of a fortnight if the patient be young, and after three weeks if an adult. If, however, there bo no more active inflammation than is necessary to unite ' Extreme c.xtcnsion, liowcver, tliouch it m.iy serve to draw down the loose condyle, will also press or tilt it forwards.115 FRACTURE. tlie bones, the fear of ankylosis need not iiuliice ns to disturb the cure. Sir Charles Bell speaks of fracture of the condyles, involving the elbow-joint, as an un- lucky case for a young surgeon, on account of the probable degree of permanent stiffness: the management of the case on right princi- ples may have a contrary result. To obviate, by active measures, all the inflammation that might terminate in induration of the soft tis- sues ; and to avoid all bandaging and appli- cations that would disturb, even when it seems time to try passive motion, are the best means of success. The reputation of the surgeon, and the welfare of the patient, render it a very im- portant and anxious question—when is motion to be employed to obviate ankylosis, after fractures involving joints? Now the only cause of remediable ankylosis is the contrac- tion of tissues subsequent upon severe inflam- mation. Let us not, therefore, aggravate this in its onset or in its decline, and some relaxa- tion will be effected by spontaneous absorp- tion. It will subsequently be a study for the most philosophical observer to determine, for the treatment of soft ankylosis, how much may be gained or lost, by violence, by nature unaided, and by judicious medicines. Any violence that excites inflammation must be prejudicial. There is something unsound and mischie- vous in the unreserved assertion, that motion and friction produce absorption: as we have already shown, with reference to fracture, their flrst effects are to augment inflammatory actions ; while their simpler effect is to aug- ment the nutrition of a part. We have seen, too, that disuse is the cause of declining nutri- tion, and consequent atrophy, just as rest faci- litates the subsidence of inflammation. With regard to pressure, its effects are in accord- ance with its degrees, and the powers of the individual body. The pressure of a pound weight may cause atrophy, or inflammation,— with thickening or with sloughing. I have elsewhere illustrated the idea, that tension causes hypertrophy, as in the instance of bone ', or adventitious ligament; and it is ’ These principles or laws of action deserve the fullest consideration, for 1 conceive there are some material points of common practice totally at v.aiiance with them. Are there no strictures aggravated hy catheterism? Have wo no joints ankyfosed hy the straining to relax them ? no reparations obstructed through the want of some tensions? Two curious illustrations of the influence of tension and pressure occur to me as additionally explanatory of these views. They .are somewhat out of pliice, hut not undeserving of attention. A fungoid tumor growing within the upper end of the tihia, expands and almost annihilates it. The hone is absorbed, in consequence of pressure from the new formation ; and soon, the fibula suffers from the pressure of the same tumor. 1 here is a fibula in the Museum of the Col- lege of Surgeons, thus rendered as thin as a shilling, and near two inches wide. Pressure has flattened the lionc hy absoq)tion, .and infl.ammation or nutritive ossification has added to its less pressed edges. Again, whenever cylindrical hones, as the femur and fihula, liecomc curved under longitudinal pressure, (as hy the only a part of the same principle, which explains, how motion may continue to excite inflamma- tory and nutrient depositions about a stift’joint. Thus far, then, there is room for a caution against aggravating the case. Nature absorbs the unemployed parts the more readily when nu- trition is scanty ; she nourishes parts in a state of tension or use, the more freely as the frame is replete. When the disposition to absorb is active, pressure or friction, or it may be, some violence, may accelerate its opera- tion ; but in the case of abounding nutrition, we may only look for inflammation or nutri- tion,—disorganization or thickening. FRACTUEES OF THE FORE-ARM. Fractures of the fore-arm are more frequent than those of the arm, inasmuch as the fore- arm is more exposed than the arm, to the many forms of violence, whether direct or indirect. The two bones of the fore-arm, the radius and ulna are often fractured together, but fractures of the radius alone are much more common. In the frequent accidents from falls upon the hands, the ulna only secondarily receives the shocks, which are conveyed to it by the radius or carpus ; and the radius, as the outer bone of the arm, is the more ex- posed to other forms of accident. According to Mr. Lonsdale’s table, frac- tures of the fore-arm comprise 1 of all frac- tures ; thus, of 1901 cases, there were 386 ; namely, Out-patients. In-patients. Fractures of the ulna 1 64 olecranon .. 29 1 30 coronoid process .. 2 0 2 radius 4 197 the two bones .. .. 85 8 93 386 Fractures of the ulna alone, are, as we have seen, much less common than those of the radius. The most frequent seat of fracture of this bone is its lower portion, where it is most slender and superficially placed. Its olecranon and coronoid processes arc also occasionally detached by fracture. The fracture of its lower extremity is caused either by a direct blow, or by falling on the inner side of the fore-arm ; the lower end of the ulna, in the latter case, perhaps, meeting some dense resisting body. The injury is plainly marked by a depres- weigbt of tbc body on tbo femur,) the bone so curved, in addition to its weakness, labours under a dimini8bo(i pow'er of resistance, in consequence of this form its concavity bears undue pressure, and its convexity lias to resist an undue share of extension. Now, both the pressure and extension lead to the deposition of bono^ especially in the parts on which they act most (as it were to excite nutrition). Tbc bone grows excessively at its concavity and convexity, whether it bows for- wards or sideways ; and it is not uncommon to sec the long hones of the legs like so many scythes, excepting near the joints, where other tensions are in ojieration.IIG FRACTURE. sion of the lower portion, yet not so gi'eat as in the cori’esponding' fracture of the radius ; this depression is increased, if not altogether caused, by the contraction of the prrrnator quadratus muscle. The position of the upper portion of the ulna is unaffected bv the acci- dent. Besides the necessary extension, we ai’e told, that the hand should be inclined to the radial side of the fore-arm by the assistant, whilst the muscles and some compress are pressed between the bones, and the apparatus applied as will be directed for the radius, taking care to give due support to the parts of the ulna. Too much separation of the fragments, and non-union (see above), may be produced by everting or abducting the hand, or by increasing the effect of the quad- ratus, with unequal compression before or be- hind. A sling for the whole length of the arm and hand, may generally be used very early. Fractures of the olecranon. — These may happen about the middle, base, or extremity of the process. The middle is most fre- quently fractured, and generally in conse- quence of a blow or fall upon the part; but occasionally, however, from the action of its muscles. Transverse fractures are the most common ; an oblique fracture is only very rarely met with. The separation of the fractured portion from the shaft of the bone, by the tonic action of the triceps muscle, produces an evident interspace at the back of the joint; which is also made greater or smaller on flexing or extending the fore-arm. Disconnecting the triceps from the ulna destroys the voluntary power of ex- tending the limb. Sometimes, in consequence of the expanded insertion of the triceps, the disconnexion is incomplete; and Mr. Earle has related a case where the power of extension was not lost until the sixth day after the acci- dent ; the loss of extension was sudden, and accompanied by a sudden flexion of the fore- arm k Sir A. Cooper has also shown, that the extent of separation of the fragment depends on the degree of laceration of the capsule, and of that portion of ligament which stretches from the inner side of the coronoid process to that of the olecranon. When the biceps and brachialis muscles have no efficient oppo- nents, their action tends to produce a con- stant semiflexed position of the fore-arm. In a natural condition, when the fore-arm is thus half-bent, the condyles of the humerus arc above the level of the olecranon ; but when this part is broken off, it is drawn more or less above the condyles. Motion of the frac- tured portion has no influence on the niain portion of the ulna; crepitus is distinguish- able when the parts are brought together ; and consideral)le pain attends the manipula- tion of the parts. Bony reunion of the olecranon is of rare occurrence ; the new connexion is generally ligamentous, with more or less space between ' Pructiral 01)S. p. 117. the fractured surfaces. Sir A. Coojicr ob- serves, that when the intersjiace is at all considerable, there is mostly one or more openings through this ligamentous .substance, i.e. distinct ligamentous cords; and the arm is found weakened, in proportion as the ligament is long. He considers this substance to be, generally, the necessary and proper bond of reparation in the cases in question, which he further likens, as regards their union, to the fractured neck of the femur. He has seen bony union of the fractured olecranon in the living subject; but the fracture had, in that case, hap|)ened near the shaft of the bone. Mr. Samuel Cooper has witnessed osseous • union between the humerus and the broken olecranon; and we cannot doubt that sufficient • contact and ossific action would constantly* produce a solid union. To obtain a fair juxta-position, the retracted: fragment must be lowered, and the fractured; surface of the ulna raised towards it, by ex-- tending the fore-arm. The opposition of the triceps is to be controlled as much as may be; while we are careful to maintain such a nice adjustment of parts as may most conduce to close, even union. The future free motion of: the joints must not be disregarded. Desault and others have objected to a full! extension of the fore-arm, on the ground thatt the fiactured surfaces are thus made to touch each other at their back part only, leavinfj a i space in front, which, it was said,irregular callus- is apt to occupy, to the prejudice of the joint. By means of a splint along the fore-arm, De-- sault therefore maintained a position between . semifle.xion and extension. Before applying: the splint, however, he proceeded to confine the fractured olecranon ; to this end, the arm, slightly flexed, was bandaged from the wrist to the elbow ; and the folds of skin, or wrin- kles formed at the back of the elbow by the extension of the joint being drawn upwards, lest they should become included between the fractured portions, the olecranon was forcibly pressed downwards to its place, and 1 maintained there by repeated turns of the ■ roller, covering the bend of the elbow in the form of a figure of 8 ; the splint, which was ai strong one, and a little bent before the joint,, was then applied, and the limb rested on a. pillow. Sir A. Cooper’s treatment was to extend the fore-arm, and bring the u|>per portion into > contact with the lower ; he then placed tapes ■ or slips of linen longitudinally on either side ■ of the joint and olecranon, and over these he applied a roller round the arm, close above ■ and below the process, only. The ends of the slips above the fracture were then tied to the cori’osponding ones below, and are made to draw the rollers, under which they pass nearer to each other, and the detached fragment is ex|)ectcd to be regulated by them. A well- padded straight splint is then secured in front of the arm with a bandage kept wet with ^ spirit of wine and water. Sir A. Cooper recommends the splint toFRACTURE. 117 be removed in about a mouth, and passive motion to be then commenced. When there is much swelling at first, the bandaging must be delayed for two or three days; and the arm being gently confined in a straight position, leeches, evaporating lotions, and purgatives, are to be employed with activity proportioned to the severity of the symptoms. Dupuytren used an anterior splint, and what is called the uniting bandage, with a com- press applied above the upper portion. I think we are to conclude that, as soon as we safely may, a nice coaptation is to be ob- tained, with the arm extended, and placed by the side, in bed. A roller to the fore arm, and a nicely padded splint along the front of the whole arm, must be sufficiently secured. The means of drawing down the olecranon need not be very intricate ; but it seems indisputa- ble that they should act as exclusively as pos- sible on the splint and upper edge of the detached process. Absolute inaction of the great triceps is desirable for the first days of the repair, or so long as bony union may be expected. Subsequently, a less restrained state of the muscle, without any direct exercise of it, may be needful to develop a good liga- mentous union. The reader will find these views again touched on, under the head of fractures of the patella Fractures of the coronoid process of the ulna are, in a measure, analogous to those of the olecranon ; but they arc very rare acci- dents. Sir A. Cooper appears to have been the first to describe examples of them. The chief causes appear to be falls on the hand with the elbow-joint nearly extended; by which violent contact of the process with the humerus is produced, and the former be- comes detached. The consequence is, that the olecranon slides back, the arm is more or less extended, and we have the deformity ap- proaching to that of a luxation of the ulna backwards. The reduction of the ulna itself is not difficult; and when it is produced, flexion may be completely effected ; but the deformity is very readily re-produced. The isolated process is felt in front of the joint, or even higher in the arm, controlled by the brachialis muscle, which is inserted into it. There seems to be no reasonable prospect of bony reunion; and, indeed, it must require much care to obtain a tolerably short union of ligament. The best coaptation will, of course, be procured by flexing the joint com- pletely, and retaining it in this position for a considerable time,—about three weeks ; and then, i)y degrees, from day to day, the joint may be extended. I conceive that as soon as the limb can be easily carried in a sling, it should he kept in such a posture and eni|)loycd as much as may be, in order to develop a good and complete ligamentous union before farther extension is attempted ; for wherever the medium of reunion is long, the ulna con- * Sec the ncconnt of the process of remiion hy Hira- ment, ns dcpemling on M/tiiisinn, page .'tfCl. VOI,. II, tinues liable to luxation backwards, or the joint is commensurately enfeebled. Fractures of the radius.—The comparative frequency of fractures of the radius is thus referred to by Baron Dupuytren. Out of 109 fractures brought to the Hotel Dieu, in 1829, 23 were of the fore-arm, 16 of these were of the radius, 5 of both bones, and 2 of the ulna. Out of 97 fractures, in 1830,22 were of the fore-arm, 16 of these being of the radius alone, 4 of both bones, and 2 of the ulna. Fracture of the right radius appears more common than that of the left, for of 97 cases 59 were of the right. Fractures of the radius are by far the most frequent of the accidents that occur to the bones of the fore-arm (see Fore-arm). The radius,as the more outward bone, may be consi- dered as more exposed to common direct vio- lence than the ulna ; but it is also subjected to the violence of falls upon the hand more in- directly received. Its broad articulating sur- face below,—the main support of the hand,— together with a still more unyielding con- nexion with the humerus above, fix this bone in a direct line, to resist almost singly every violence that the fore-arm has to endure between the weight and impetus of the body, impelling the humerus above, and the hand below, which may be fixt, or violently struck, as against the ground, in various distorted positions. The radius, acted on by simple pressure, through its upper and lower articu- lar surfaces, bends until it breaks, somewhere about its middle (transverseh% or obliquely) ; but if the violence be more irregular, or ob- liquely transmitted, we may look for injury in other parts of the bone. It is little liable to fracture superiorly. The ready indicative characters of these accidents are pain, difficult pronation and su- pination, and crepitus and motion of the broken portions, evident to the fingers ap- plied at the part affected, csjiecially when rota- ting movements arc communicated to the wrist. If the fracture happen near the upper end of the radius, its head may be felt, by the thumb, resting under the external condyle of the humerus, and remaining motionless, while the hand is being rotated on the ulna ; the frequent depth of soft parts over this upper portion, however, though the thumb be firmly pressed on the head of the radius while pro- nation and supination of the hand are re- peated, renders the diagnosis both more dif- ficult and painful. Gentle efforts, with slight extension, and varying the situation of the thumb, may detect crc|)itus. The displacement that occurs, is chiefly to bo attributed to the action of tlie pronator muscles, drawing the lower fragment in- wards. Cases of fractures of the lower end of the radius seem to occur at all ages; for, in 14 examples alluded to by Diqniytren ; the ages varied between 8 and 88. In some of theFRACTURE. 118 younger, it is probable there was separation of the epiphysis. The inference of Cruveilhier, that fracture of the radius cannot result from falling on the back of the hand, is refuted, for, out of 14 examples of broken radius, Dupuytrcn found that 3 wore caused by falls upon the back of the hand, and 11 by falls upon the palm. (Clin. Chir. t. iv.) The fractures of the lower end of the radius are often mistaken for dislocations of the wrist; to which they have a greater re- semblance, in proportion as they take place nearer to the joint. They occur at from three to six lines, or an inch from the radio- carpal articulation, and either in oblique or transverse directions; but most often ob- liquely, and with an inclination downwards and forwards. Occasionally the spongy base of the radius is reduced to many fragments, in a bag, as it were, of periosteum. Dupuytren met with cases of comminution of the articular surface ; and the lower portion is occasionally found in two ]ncces from a vertical fracture, or there may be only a slight fissure. Together with this fracture of the radius, the ulna also has been known, in a few cases, to have been dislocated, or even to have pro- ected through the skin. These fractures of the radius are sometimes, though rarely, open; and indeed they occur with almost every possible degree of comminution, contusion, laceration, and displacement, and amputation may be the best or only resource of our art. The treatment of fractured radius alone, seldom requires material extension ; if it ap- pear that there is displacement or shortening, it should be reduced. The fore-arm is to be flexed, and the hand placed between prona- tion and supination. The hand from the wrist should also be inclined towards the ulna side of the fore-arm, and the fingers directed downwards. Dupuytren contrived a bar of iron to lie along the side of the ulna, and curved abruptly inwards (downwards in the sling), at the wrist ; the hand was also forci- bly adducted to the curved part. This, I think, involves an error to be guarded against. The efficient application of this “ ulnar splint” would augment the disi)lacemcnt of the radius, by one or both the [)ronators. Soap plaster, covered by a slack roller, is generally enjoined, with no other veiy appa- rent utility than the opportunity of hinting that we should avoid biiiding the broken ends ui)on the ulna throughout the after treatment; which the position of the fingers downwards has a natural tendency to obviate. 1 he ulna being entire t’orms the first and best splint; also a means of atleni|)ting some extension of the radius. A well j)added splint is^ next to be placed along the inside of the fore-arm, extending to the last joint of the fingers, and a similar splint and pad are to bo placed along the outside of the arm and hand. The mo- tion of the last joint of the fingers is to be left unrestrained. A great length of time is often required for the fingers to regain their use after adhesive inflammation about their tendons ami thecae. Tliis is an urgent reason for subdu- ing all active inflammation about the wrist; and with regard to the rigorous application of splints in difficult cases, it is better to suffer a good deal of deformity than obliterate the actions of the tendons by exciting inflamma- tion in their sheaths. It is sometimes considered necessary to place a compress, as well as can be, between . the ends of the fracture and the ulna, or be- tween the radius and ulna above, in order to prevent the bones being drawn together, and : eventually united by bone, from which the loss of pronation and supination must re-- suit. The compresses referred to may at; times be of use, but gentle treatment is of the utmost importance, as excessive inflammatory actions are especially to be avoided. When there is no longer a fear of excessive inflammation, the patient may go about, with a sling supporting the M’hole length of the ulna. The fingers depending, may be made to effect some extension of the radius ; but- this requires caution, as it may be excessive,, or induce lateral displacement of the frag- ments. In fractures near the wrist there is a dis- position in the hand and lower fragment to be turned outwards, that is, towards the radial side of the fore-arm; and deformity and im- perfect pronation and supination will follow,, if means are not taken to keep the hand in-- dined in the opposite direction. Dupuytren. has very particularly described his treatment of these, as well as many other particular fractures. (Clin. Chir.) Fracture of the radius and ulna together may happen at either extremity of the fore- arm, or in the middle : the upjier part of the fore-arm is, however, seldom fractured, being, much protected by the numerous muscles that surround it, and by the greater solidity of the ulna in that position. Both bones are usually broken in the same line, but occasionally one more or less above the ])lane of the other. Generally, each bone has but one fracture; for the bones to be broken in two places is rare. By the wheel of a cart, or such ponderous- body, it may of course happen, that the bones- shall be reduced to many fragments; yet these- may, under favourable circumstances, unite- well, and with but little deformity. Direct violence to the fore-arm is the most common cause ot these fractures ; but an indi- rect force, as a fall upon the hand, occasional!} ])i’oduces an equal amount of mischief: in sucl case, not only is the radius fractured (sec Fractures of Radius) as is common, bu( the fracture of the ulna may follow, since it if inca])ablc of resisting, or of extricating itscl : from the remainder of the shoek.^ The nature of the accident is not easil}^ mistaken; there is excessive motion when tlrerc was none before, and cre])itus is, in inos ease.s, readily felt. At the seat of fracture<HD FRACTURE. there is sometimes a distinct depression, or excessive deformity ; and sometimes the frac- tured extremities project beneath, or even through, the skin ; there is always pain when the part is moved ; the power of pronation and supination is lost; the fore-arm is gene- rally semiflexed. The fracture near to the wrist-joint, how- ever, so nearly resembles the appearances of dblocation of that part, as to deserve a distinct mention here ; but the dislocation is so rare, that Dupuytren, through his whole practice, never once met with a single case. In frac- tures, the part is more moveable ; there is a crepitus ; and a little attention to discover whether the styloid processes are above or below the deformity, will distinguish the cases. Again, we must see, that in fractures, when the hand is moved, the styloid processes will accompany that motion ; but when the hand is moved in dislocation without fracture, the processes of the radius and ulna cannot alter their situation. Longitudinal displacement or shortening, seldom happens but to a small extent; the nature of the interosseous ligament, and the connexions of the muscles with it and with the bones, seem to impede displacement, which the long tendons, with yielding points of insertion, are little calculated to increase. Angular displacement may occur either for- ward or backward, but the violence which produces the fracture is its principal cause, and not the muscular contraction. In trans- verse displacement, the upper portion of one bone approaches the lower fragment of the other; or, all the ends fall together, to the diminution, or even obliteration, of the inter- osseous ligament about the seat of fracture, ]>roducing evident disfigurement of the limb. For the reduction of the fracture of both bones, the fore-arm is to be flexed to a right angle with the arm, the wrist and fingers slightly flexed, and tlie hand placed between ])ronation and supination—the palm towards the breast; the humerus being then fixed by an assistant, extension of the fractured part is made by means of the fingers of the patient; the surgeon during the time attending to the restoration of the parts, and endeavouring to direct the soft part into the interosseous space, by gentle graduated pressure on the anterior and posterior sides of the arm. The fragments being adjusted, the position just indicated is to be maintained, by a padded splint, on the back and front of tlic arm and hand. FUACTUltES OF THE BONES OF THE WHIST AND FINGERS. The carpal bones may be broken liy in- direct violence, in connexion with luxations of the jiart (see the article Luxations) ; or direct violence may crush them. Tlicrc may be extensive comminution, even though the skin remain entire. When with open frac- ture, the integuments arc crushed and bruised, instead of lieing lacerated, lliere is the least hope of reparative action; which is an im- portant consideration with reference to ampu- tation, Sometimes very little trace of ex- ternal injury attends these fractures. Gentle forces may be used to replace bones. The palm and fore-arm are to rest on an easy splint, covered by any necessary dressing; and great care will be required to moderate fever, to regulate inflammation, (much advantage being derived from raising the hand above the level of the body,) to evacuate matter early, and prevent its burrowing. Fractures of the metacarpus and fingers occur from crushing violence, from smart blows, as of a stick, and from undue strain, as over extension. Falling on the tip of a finger would seem capable of breaking even a meta- carpal bone. If the soft parts be not severely disorganized, we have still to fear that thick- ening about the tendons may leave only rigid deformity of one or more fingers, which is in many respects worse than their loss. Uncom- plicated fracture near the middle of a meta- carpal bone is not very rare; the inferior broken end inclines forwards, the shortening is very inconsiderable, unless more than one bone be broken. A splint with a compress in the palm, or a globnlar cushion on which to flex and bind the fingers, are the usual means of treatment. The fore-finger is more liable to fracture than the rest; and the radical phalanges are oftener broken than those beyond. The pha- langes of the thumb are rather prone to be luxated than fractured. If these fractures be simple, and not open, they are usually neiu* the middle of the bone, and easily detected ; but if near the extremities, their diagnosis is more difficult. The state of repose requires the fingers to be slightly flexed, and also the wrist and arm. Some persons treat simple fraeture of the phalanges with little straight splints, as of pasteboard ; others place a pad in the palm, and secure the finger over it. I prefer gene- rally a straight splint of wood, padded to give some flexion to the finger. Fracture of the bones of the thumb arc not fo be treated in the extended position, but pasteboard is to be moulded to the dorsum, and along the front of the thumb, in the flexed attitude of rest. Supination of the wrist relaxes the extensors of the thumb, but the wrist must bo rather flexed. Many of the injuries of the hand can have no better termination than by amputation. Parts injured beyond restoration, or the hope of useful restoration, are generally to be re- moved ; but the more the surgeon seems to be called upon to take away, the more it is important to save some part; and possibly the amputation of one part, or set of jiarts, may facilitate the rejmir of another. See the article Amputation. The knowledge of constitution and diathesis is here of great use ; and a dmi attention to sucli cases is one good means of attaining it.FRACTURE. FHACTURES OF THE SACRUM. The sacrum can scarcely be broken, unless by such means as a gun-shot, or extremely violent blows,or compressions; and the injury is comrnensurately dangerous. (See Injuries OF THE Spine and Viscera.) The lower thin end is the more liable to fracture, and displacement of fragments, which are not very difficult to detect. The finger, per rectum, may assist to replace them. The indications are, to obviate inflammation with decision, and to secure the utmost ease and repose ; but the prognosis is necessarily anxious. A stiff belt, freely padded, and secured around the pelvis, with a moderate degree of force, so as rather to support than compress the fragments, seems to be the best means of providing for a safe repair. FRACTURES OF THE OS COCCYGI3. These are rare injuries, on account of the site of the coccyx, and its mobility on the sacrum, and the yielding of the parts which form this bone. When, however, the parts are united, and more particularly in the aged, the coccyx may be broken, or detached by any direct force driving in its extremity. The fracture may be attended with some comminution, or it may bo oi^en to the canal of the rectum. This injury is readily detected. Pain on walking ; and a depression at the part, caused by the sinking of the apex of the coccyx, and of the muscles attached to its sides, together with the dis])lacement, mobility and crepitus, to be felt with the finger in the rectum, ren- der the nature of the accident sufficiently evident. Abscesses, necrosis, and caries, with more or less difficidty in the bowels, may fol- low this fracture. A gentle effort to coaptate the fragments is all the reduction that can be well attempted. Rest and the recumbent posture, avoiding all means of depressing the parts until repair has taken place, are the necessary points in the after treatment of the case. Walking would displace the fragments by the action of the lower fibres of the great gluteus. FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. Heavy blows or severe crushes arc the causes of these injuries; although slighter forces may detach a fragment, as the anterior superior spine. The injury is almost as fre- quently on two sides as on one ; and more frequently in the severer cases. Divisions of the two rami of the pubis, fractures of ischium, body of the pubes and acctahnlum, and fis- siirings of the plate of the ilium, may occur; and this is about the order of their frequency. Separation of an iliac synchondrosis, or of the pubic sym])hysis, often attends a fraclnrc. These two luxations can scarcely else occur separately. The displacement of fragments is very va- rious. The signs are mostly obscure, in pro- portion as the injury is slight. Lesions of the viscera constitute the first danger; inflam- mation the next. The laceration of consider- able vessels is rare. It is only well to ascertain as much of the nature of the cases as may be done without distressing the sufferer, and it is rarely well to make violent attempts to replace fras- ments. Occasionally, the muscles cause much dis- placement of fragments. A house-painter fell from the top of a ladder on to the pave: the middle of the crest of the ilium, four fingers’ breadth square, w'as detached, and drawn up ' nearly into contact with the ribs ; and thus the patient got well. (Sanson.) Position might, doubtless, effect some advantageous readjustment. The benefit, however, of all I measures for the replacement or retention of: fragments, besides such as are very gentle, is,. at least, uncertain ; and this applies to all the fractures of the pelvis. Firm bandages, or straps and buckles around the pelvis, are usually recommended to ob- viate mobility of fragments, and to secure con- solidation. For the first object, the pressure? need not be severe, and may be hurtful ; and! for the second, the delay of a week or two,' may be advisable. A thick bed of wool or flock, to support all parts of the body equally, and great care to, relieve the pelvis from any strain that may? increase deformity, will be the best sources- of ease to the patient. The constitutional treatment depends chiefly' in these cases on considerations connected with the viscera. (See Injuries.) The first collapse may be fatal. Inflammation, extend-- ing in the soft tissues of the pelvis, is much regulated by the individual diathesis ; the most active means should be employed to obviate or arrest it, since it tends to disor- - ganization. Limited abscesses indicate a bet- ter constitution. The matter should be eva-- cuated early; and fragments of dead bonC' may thus be released : these, however, arc subjects of additional anxiety. Fractures of the acetabulum are usuall} connected with other fractures of the os inno- minatum ; yet it would seem that they may occur as more simple injuries. Dupuytreir described the circumstance of the head of the femur being driven through the cotyloid cell, and thus luxated into the pelvis. A young man fell from a great elcvatioi on to the pave (of rough stones), and died i few hours afterwards in the IIotel-Dien a Paris. There was no fracture of the uppei limbs, but the two acctabula were commi niited, and fragments were driven on to tin pelvis ; the round ligaments were entire, am the heads of the thigh-bones wore in thei |)laccs. (Sanson.) 'I'lie fracture of the acetabulum may oceu a,s a kind of diastasis, but still wo arc tc,^ exjK'Ct other attendant injuries.FRACTURE. 121 I Fig. 48. Most museums of ])atbology (.'ontain specimens of fractured pelvis repaired ; but a fatal re- sult is the usual sequel. The tuberosity of the ischi- um, as indeed the whole, is almost exempt from fracture, excepting from the general crushes of the pelvis. When, however, the chief prominence has been detached, the muscles arising from it may draw it downwards, and produce a de- formity which posture could only palliate. FRACTURES OE THE FEMUR. The great importance of the thigh-bone, its frequent liability to fractures at almost all ages, and the extreme degree of de- formity which follows these injuries, together with the in- different success of their treat- ment, as the great majority of specimens in museums testify, render fractures of the thigh interesting to the surgeon above all others. Separation of {he os innominatum into its origmulparts in a young person. Sanson describes the like in the case of a female thirty years of age. The upper rim of the acetabulum may be detached by a forcible impulse of the head of the femur upwards, and cases of the kind are related. The nature of this injury has been said to be a difficult subject of diagnosis; especially with respect to the distinction be- tween the fracture, and luxations of the femur upwards. This fracture is still more a matter of vexation with regard to coaptation, and the subsequent treatment. Sir A. Cooper mentions an instance of this injury; and Mr. Lonsdale another, in which the posterior margin of the acetabulum was broken away, in two pieces, and disjdaced backwards. So far as there is no luxation in such a case, the limb will, of course, be moveable. And the comparative facility of replacing the femur in other cases will, probably, suffice, if not to make the state matiifest, at least to preclude the suspicion of common dislocation. Fractures of the os innominatum may simu- late either luxations or fractures of the femur. Mr. Earle (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. xx.) de- scribes a fracture in two directions through the acetabulum, with comminution and dis- jdacement of ilium and juibis; in this case the toot was everted, the limb powerless, with- out shortening, and the trochanter sunken. Motion caused much sutfering, and crc]»itus about the ilium. Tliese injui'ic's were wc’.ll repaired; but the patient sank under thoracic distiaso. Of fractures of the femur in general, and of its shaft in 2^(i>'ticular. This bone may be broken at any part be- tween its extremities,—every point ot its head, neck, body, and condyles being severally liable to division ; but the most frequent seat of this accident in the adult is about its mid- dle third; the fracture is sometimes double, or even comminuted, though, trom the deej) situation of the bone, but rarely so. The direction of the fracture may be trans- verse ; but generally it is more or loss oblique, and the treatment is rendered proi)ortionately difficult, and ultimate deformity and lameness areproi)ortionatelytobeaiiprehended. Oblique fractures, both from their nature and causes, arc more frcqueidly attended by laceration ; by which the fracture may even be c.vj)oscd; and the dangers of su])puration and necrosis become suporadded. The syini)tonis that characterise the acci- dent arc, acute ])ain at the moment it takes ])lacc ; sudden immobility of the limb on the ])art of the ])atient, with ))reternatural motion of the lower jiortion of the femur when other- wise acted on. We may readily detect short- ening and thickening of the thigh, and mal- ])Osition of the knee and leg. Crepitus is usually well marked, but some- times not until extension or co-aptation has l)ecn efl'ecled. The bone is most accessible to the fingers along its sides; but the usual de- formity of the upjier fragment gliding before the lower is to be sought for by grasping the ))art with the thumb anteriorly and the lingers behind. No writers a|ipcHr to have mentionedFRACTURE. 12!^ this point. Some particular, and doubtful signs with reference to fractures of particular parts of the femur, will be hereafter adverted to. The deformity which is attendant upon almost all fractures of the femur, from its fre- quent tendency to return after coaptation, or the difficulties in treating it, requires a very distinct knowledge of its causes. The broken limb is nearly always considerably shorter than its perfect fellow, which denotes that the frac- tured ends ride, or that the lower portion is drawn under the upper. In this, the longest bone of the body, it is most evident, that the natural resistance being lost, the muscles will draw the lighter and less fixed part of the limb towards the unyielding portion ; that is, the knee will be retracted towards the pelvis. Ihe weight of the foot will induce some ro- tation, generally eversion. The flexors of the hip-joint make the upper fragment point for- wards : the great glutei sometimes give it an inclination outwards; and the adductor magnus is inclined to act on the lower end of the in- ferior fragment, while, perhaps, the gluteus maximus acts on its upper part. These effects are named in the order of the frequency with which they are found to have been produced in old united fractures; but no doubt other muscles are concerned in causing them. In connexion with this part of my subject, I would beg the reader’s attention to Mr. Aston Key’s letter, which will be found at the conclusion of Fractures of the Femur. Sir Charles Bell says, in his Institutes, “ I put twelve specimens of fractured thigh-bone into a case, alt of them exhibiting the upper portion of the bone projecting forwards be- yond the lower portion.” This deformity is, no doubt, the most general in all fractures of the femur, between the condyles and tro- chanters ; and if the appearance of the speci- mens in museums is to speak, as well as the partiality of surgeons whilst limbs are encased in living flesh, the correct treatment of such cases is still very much in the province of in- quiry, and very little determined by demon- strative evidence. Alteration in the plane of the bedding is also a source of displacement in addition to the influence of muscles. In the horizontal posture of the frame the buttocks support the greatest pressure, and soon effect a depression in the bed, into which, as on an inclined plane, the upper part of the trunk glides, and bear- ing further on the pelvis, urges the fractured extremity of bone connected with it down- wards over its inferior corresponding portion. The weight of the foot tends to rotate the knee outwards. The consequent irritation of muscles, by the fractured surfaces thus put in motion, tends to increase the displace- ment. 'I'hcrc is less liability to longitudinal dis- placement in transverse fractures, in conse- (jnence of there being, sometimes, effective surfaces of resistance to the muscles acting on the lower portion ; as when the upper [lortion is carried forward by the pelvis and is met by a ly broad surface of resistance on the lower por- tion. Finally, the kind of deformity is partly de- pendent upon the nature of the blow producing the accident; and perhaps little less, on the misapplied assistance of those who carry the sufferer to his bed. An angular direction may thus be given to the fracture, and the lower portion of the limb may be made to rotate further outwards or inwards on its own axis. Treatment.—The reader must revert to the general observations on the treatment of frac- tures for some particular remarks relative to the management of broken thighs. Amongst approved surgeons, the treatment: of fractured thighs, in regard to position, differs ■ very considerably ; three distinct methods be-- ing in practice: viz. 1. The straight or ex-- tended position, which was recommended by Hippocrates, and is still preferred by many; 2. the practice of laying the limb upon its- side with the knee flexed, introduced by Mr. Pott: and 3. the position, of the patient upon his back, with the thigh and leg supported on two oblique planes, which meet under the flexure of the knee, now also much approved. These differences in practice arise from various opinions respecting the effects of position. It is urged on the one hand, that displacement is less likely to occur in a flexed position with muscles relaxed, than when the limb is extended ; and the comparative ease with which the coaptation of a frac- tured humerus is maintained when the elbow is flexed, is adduced as an example of the jus- tice of this preference ’. On the other hand, it is objected that this method presupposes the relaxation of muscles attendant upon flexed positions to be more general than really happens ; that the relaxation of some is the extension of others, as in the case above- mentioned, where the biceps and other mus- cles are relaxed, but the triceps and anconeus are in a state of tension. A doubt is also preferred as to whether relaxation of muscle is the best means to prevent spasms occasion- ing displacement. It seems demonstrable that powerful exten- sion can be most directly exerted and main- tained in the extended posture of the leg. Next it is evident that as the fracture if nearer to the condyles, the less is it difficul to depress the shaft, to obviate its riding for wards ; and vice ver.m. It is plain enough tha with a division below and near the trochante- minor, and the thrustingforwards of the uppe portion of the femur, there are no means o depressing that part while the limb is extend ed on the bed ; although it is practicable by : different position to make the lower fragment ’ Tills is very just 80 fiir OR it froes. The l)irc])S nui limrliinlis licing luilt rclaxoii instoiul of strotrlu-il to tii- utmost, lu'iups tlio arm nearest to the coiuiitioii of roiii ))letc rest; hut this is not to he lieedlessly ronipnrei with what is really au opposite ease. Cousiiierahh,! flexion of the knee hrili"S the great (|ua<lrieeps into i ■ state of tension, without any very material elfeet n ■ the way of relaxing the long flexors oflhc knee.FRACTURE. i2r, at least, approach to a natural relation with the upper. The consideration of these and other circumstances leads us to infer that neither the straight, nor the flexed position in treatment is equally suited to alt kinds of cases, although, with attention, either may be tolerably avail- able for the generality of them. It will, I think, appear in the sequel that the three methods above-mentioned, with various modifications, are all deserving of es- timation. The position of Hippocrates is often eflicient; that of Pott may be occasionally necessary ; and the more modern double- inclined plane is, at least, a frequent and ne- cessary resource. If there be, as doubtless there are, cases in which the first and last of these plans are equallj’’ available, the practi- tioner will speedily appreciate the great com- fort of a change of apparatus during the ne- cessarily protracted treatment *. Very simple trials may at times suffice to determine on the preferable plan in a given case. At other times it will be far otherwise; and let me observe, that should the reader be tempted to turn away from what may seem only the discussion of a doubtful matter, he should remember that such a consideration as the present, is a paramount object of importance, since it affects especially the treatment of the difficult cases. 'When the patient is placed in bed, and the shortening or deformity is found to be inconsiderable, the duty of a moderately-prudent surgeon is easy, and his reputation generally safe, whatever method he may choose. Yet the case may prove widely different; and I con- ceive that he whose prejudices are very strong in favour of any one system (as, for instance, that of the straight position) will be occa- sionally in danger of doing serious mischief. It is remarkable that in latter times we have seen an eminent practical surgeon of France maintaining the principle of Pott, while a distinguished literary English surgeon becomes a convert to the views of Desault. Dupuytrcn advocated the double-inclined plane ; Mr. S. Cooper prefers the straight position, but confesses that he is sometimes obliged to have recourse to flexion in order to remedy the rising of the superior fragment. I w'ould suppose, that long before the time of Pott, intelligent men must have met vi'ith the upj)cr third of a broken femur j)ointing forwards, and have been too much concerned to the limb straight, not to have discovered that all means, which did not advance the knee, were inefficient to produce satisfactory coaptation. When we consider the leg attentively with reference to its myology, we find that the knee-joint has but feeble or indirect flexor ’ It is ospcciiilly witli reforenro to long ronfino- monts witli frartiMTs of the leg, that evei v jiidicioiiBly j.raelirnhle change should he adopted, ‘ those only know rightly who have experienced the ellect, how great a satisfaction may ho thus alforded ; even a change of room, or only of the position of the i.atioiit’s 18 a niaterinl Boiircc of linppinoPH. muscles ; for it is not until the straight po- sition of the knee yields to one of flexion, that the flexor muscles (except the semi-membra- nosus) can be said to bo materially available. The long femoral muscles, whose office is (after stiffening the knee which has been extended in progression) chiefly to carry or press back tbe limb, and then barely to lift the leg, are little to be contrasted with the short massive and specific extensors of the knee. In considering the muscles to bo relaxed for the treatment of any particular case, it is quite necessary to bear in mind the structure of each individual muscle concerned. A long muscle, formed only of fibres longitudinally arranged, has a very insignificant degree of influence, compared with a muscle of equal weight and half the length, but having a pen- niform arrangement. This subject will be again adverted to, but it will be dwelt upon more particularly in the article Luxations. This reflection seems to me to involve a pretty general principle, with respect to the treatment of all cases in which the influence of muscles is concerned. The omission of this consideration is a material oversight, and there are cases in which the want of it is fatal to right practice. It must suffice here to state, what needs no proof, that a long straight muscle must be well extended before it can act poiverfully ; while the pennifornr arrangement of a muscle implies a power, that, without a certain degree of relaxation, is al- most invincible. Slight flexion of the knee and hip is the condition of natural repose (not so extension), and does not materially affect the vast! and crureus; and omitting the effects of perma- nent or forcible extension, which are occa- sionally doubtful, negative, or worse, ive see that the bent position is most favourable to quiescence. For this reason, and because the posterior muscles are so long as to be little af- fected by any position of the knee, though all flexion of the hip-joint is rather calculated to stretch them, we must conclude that bending the knee on the douhlc-incUned 'plane does not materially decrease the tension of the poste- rior muscles. It is not eas3’’ to obtain a right estimation of the effects of forcible extension. The power of the muscles excited by opposition, the in- security of the points called “fixed,” the in- supportable pain caused by all considerable steady pressure on the skin, are facts which are to bo set against the less palpable and uncertain results of an examination of decji- scated parts, by which any surgeon niaj' be misled in siqiposiug that ho has jiroducod jiorfect rc-adjustmont. If the diagnosis of the scat and diroction of the fracture were pre- cise, and the state of parts after difleront jirac- ticos were iuqiartially and accurately stated, wo should have liettcr grounds for judgment ; but at present, both the discrepancies which occur in the various views on the subject, and the want of experience, compel us to rely much ujion reason in selecting a method from the124 FRACTURE. two respectively' sanctioned by so many cre- ditable names. There is a difi'erence, too, between the writer and the practitioner which is rarely well adjusted ; for both the weak- nesses of the learner and the teacher are in- cessantly tem])ting the latter to be more pre- cise and positive, and unmindful of exceptions, than truth demands. Mr. Pott recommended the whole frac- tured limb to be rested on its outside, on the trochanter, and the body of the patient to bo inclined to the same side ; the hip-joint to be somewhat flexed ; the knee to be placed be- twixt flexion and extension ; and the leg and foot on rather a higher level than the thigh. Many-tailed bandages were aj)j)lied to the thigh and leg. Two short, broad, and hol- lowed splints, extending from above the tro- chanter, and from the groin to just below the knee, were the only solid su])port used by him, and the limb below the knee was sup- ported upon pillows. This plan deserves to be remembered, as available under particular cir- cumstances. It is sometimes adopted with four thigh-splints; it admits of various degrees of flexion, and a splint may be adapted along the whole of the outside of the limb, as well as other applications if requisite. In treating fractured thighs according to these directions, the mischiefs of a common yielding bed or slack sacking are particularly to be guarded against; for the middle of the bed, sinking from its greater weakness in the long diameter, will of course lower the body and the head of the broken femur with it; whilst the lower extremity of the femur with the leg and foot, is left considerably above, apparently from its too free mobility, or want of the support of a continuous splint beneath it. The tendency also of the weight of the body rather to one side of the bed than the other ; the unresisted gravity of the leg, and the power of many muscles over the limb in this position, notwithstanding that the chief flexor muscles arc relaxed, seem calculated to displace the upper part of the femur, and pro- duce permanent distortion of the foot out- ward. When, however, this method of placing the limb becomes desirable, these difficulties, being antici|)atcd, may be in great part ob- viated by care. Among the objections urged against the I)rinciple of Pott, is the disadvantage attend- ing the apj)lication of extension and counter- extension in the bent position, as the force must be apjAied near to the broken bone itself, instead of to the leg or foot at a dis- tance from it. Other objections are, that the fractured and sound limbs cannot be so accu- rately com[)ared; that the continued pressure ni)on the trochanter becomes painful, and may lead to sloughing ; that the patient soon turns round on his back, dragging tlic uj)pcr fragment along with his body ; and also that every time he has a motion in this position, the derange- ment of the limb is likely to be considerable. One of the chief advantages of the straight position for the treatment of fractures of the thigh, is justly said to consist in the facility with which it admits of active extension. With respect to the efforts that may be em- ployed with this view, the reader should be mindful of the limitations already described in the general account of fractures. With regard to the practicability of over- coming muscular contraction by extension, it is probably very near the truth, that the more violence is employed the less advantage is gained, and the more mischief accrues. All needful extension short of distress may be available and desirable ; more than this is mostly impracticable, and even the least de- grees beyond it are, I think, more boasted of, as to their effects, than real or efficient. The natural power of those muscles which tend towards displacement, generally baffles the resistance which artificial combinations of apparatus are at first able to oppose to them ; but the wearying operation of a gentle continued extension, and of muscular com- pression by means of the circular bandage, may yet prove more or less completely effi- cient. That the power of the muscles may be so diminished, might appear from the known effect of continued extension in the reduction of certain cases of dislocation. In fracture, however, the contraction to be overcome is expected to yield permanently ; but surgeons are very well aware that in prac- tice, cases every now and then occur, in which the muscles are perfectly invincible ; and they find themselves compelled to remain content with a very indifferent coaptation of fragments, or even without any reduction of the parts whatever. Some degree of extension is beneficial, if it onl^' produce reduction to the point at which muscular contraction is firm ; and beyond this it is to be feared that the more extension is needed, the more it may prove unavailing. No one need object to employ all the force he can without distressing the patient; but when the mechanical surgeon jmesents his patient to illustrate the happy etfects of ex- tension, a few days after a fracture has been ])ut up, and the patient (a muscular young man perhaps), declares he is quite free from painful pressure, it remains to be inquired, whether the muscles have given way, or the apparatus. It is to be hoped the machine is sometimes more tender than its contriver. The effect of regular muscular compre-ssion by a bandage, is said to bo exemplified in the usual treatment ot fractured patella and ole- cranon ; but we must not forget that ])Ostuio docs still more in both ot these cases. It might even be said, that in these cases the muscles still make success difficult. Next to its affording efficient means of reduction, we said that the straight position of the leg presents the simplest and readiest, though not the only means ol keeping up c.x- tension, and a decided stability ot the nhole limb. Desault did not find permanent extension125 FRACTURE. requisite in cases of transverse fracture of the femur ; but he insisted on the necessity of it when the bone was broken obliquely ; that is, doubtless, whenever the shortening continued, considerable, a circumstance much more dis- tinguishable and instructive than the state of the broken ends. In such an instance, with a large unwieldy limb, and perhaps a no very docile patient, we see, that with straight firm splints extending the whole length of the limb, the coaptation of the fracture may be more readily attained and secured : for the knee, leg, ankle, and foot, are thereby kept steadier and freer from disturbance under any neces- sary movements, or even I’emovals, of the patient. It was the main, avowed object of Desault’s practice, that the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis should have such a connexion together, that they might move together as a whole, how- ever the apparatus or the body might be acted on. The principal part of his apparatus was a long splint, extending from the crista of the ilium to six or eight inches below the foot; it was nearly three inches broad, with an open- ing at each extremitj^ shaped as a mortise, and a semicircular niche at each end. Having first applied Scultetus’s bandage, two strong Fig. linen rollers, each above a yard long, confined the splint to the outside of the leg. One roller was passed round the upper part of the thigh, through the mortise, and knotted on the niche ; pads were placed under the middle of the band, and on the tuberosity of the ischium as the chief point of resistance. The lower part of the leg being then covered with pads, the other roller was applied around it, crossed on the instep and on the sole of the foot; and one end being first passed through the mortise, it was knotted on the niche so forcibly, that pushing the splint upward, and acting on the pelvis and upper portion of the femur, extension was produced, and the lower portion was permanently re-adjusted. A long internal splint extending below the foot, and an anterior one, reaching from the abdomen to the knee, were then applied. The upper ends of the anterior and outer splints were fixed round the pelvis by a roller. Another roller, crossed first round the foot, further se- cured the leg from moving. A lotion of ace- tate of lead was freely employed. Boyer practised the method of Desault, with the addition of a mechanical facility for regulating the extension. (Fig. 321.) 49. liaron Boyer's Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the femur. Composition.—A splint of particular construction for cBendimj the limb;—a foot-support ;—a kind of padded belt, which is buckled round the tipper part oj the thi;ih ;—two common flat splints of the Icni/th o^ the limb, one for the anterior, and the other for the internal part of the thkjh ;—and some cushions, tapes, and tvaddiny. J he splint w about four feet lontj and three flnejers' breadth wide. Alony half the tcmjlh of this splint runs a yroove, about hatfan-inch broad, the extre- mitij of which is covered with iron; to this groove a screw is adapted, ivhich occupies its whole length, one end of it being supported against the plate of iron covering the cMremily of the groove, and the other made to fit ci key by means of which it is to be turned. Un the iiiside oJ this splint a contrivance for holdinq up the foot-support is fastened to the screw. The upper part of the splint is received into a sort of Jffchor bagadapUd to the e.xternal side of the thinh- or foot-support, which has two branches at Its inferior part, is made of iron, and covered wi soft leather. It is connected by means of a mochaAi- cal contrivance, as just mentioned, with the screw. To that part of the sole ivhich is near the heel, is attached a tnoad piece of soft leather, which beinn split on each ^fool sirups, serves for firing the sole to the The thigh-belt. A, is of strong leather, covered with the same material of a softer ijuality, and well stuffed with wool; near the place where its two ends arc buckled together on the limb, a little leather pocket IS sewed for receiving the upper end of the external sptint. “ Application.—The patient being properly disposed upon the bed, a piece of linen of the length of the timb, and about three-quarters of a yard b'mad called poiie-attcllc, or splint-tvrapper, is passed under the limb, lying upon the five ordinary taqies, m in m m m. In the next place, the thigh-belt is applied the surgeon having previously surrounded the upper part of the limb obliquely with a cushion of wadding four fingerf breadth wide, and the length of the thigh-belt in order to moderate the pressure of the latter and render it moiy supportable, a a, b, c, d. The hollows of he sole of the foot and lower part, of the. leg are filled up with wadding or tow, and the. foot-sujqiort.FRACTURE. UG e, ts fujileiwd lo the former hy means of the soft leather straps attached to its under surface^ ivhich pass round the lower part of the ley; s ould, lunu- erei\ these straps appear insufficient to fix the iron sole to the foot firmly, cm extra hand, f may be ap- plied in the same manner, efcalioo or linen. “ That done, the surgeon proceeds to the reduction of the fracture, and afterwards adapts the upper extre- mity of the spliid to the pouch cf the thigh-helt, g, h, i; the foot-support being connected until the splint, the cushions, and the anterior, k, and internal splints are to be applied, and the whole fixed by means of the tapes, us in the ordinary bandages for frac- tures of the thigh. Lastly, by turning the winch, 7i, the iron sole is lowered, dru,icing the foot, to ivhich it is attached, along luilh it; the superior extremity of the splint is thus pushed upward, and the member elongated to the necessary extent With a settled opinion in favour of gentle force only, an instrument of this kind may be occasionally very serviceable; it is not incom- patible with some slight flexion of the knee ; and by raising the lower end of the apparatus with the leg, some flexion of the hip may be obtained. 'I'he advocates for the straight position fur- ther contend, that the relaxation of muscle, as by semiflexion, is not the best means of pre- venting the spasm occurring in fractures: when cramps occur in the calf, as in bed, for instance, the person seeking relief, certainly endeavours to stretch out the heel, to press the toes against the footboard, to get out of bed and stand up, or he adopts some such method, having a tendency to elongate rather than relax the muscular fibres : from analogy, therefore, we might infer, that an extended rather than a flexed state of muscles would be better calculated to the prevention of s])asm in fractures. These arguments are, unfortunately, too hasty. The straight position relaxes the ex- tensor, which is by far the strongest muscle of the limb, and does not fully extend the long flexors of the knee, or even those of the thigh; and yet this is the antispasmodic position, be- cause it produces tensions. Again, a person having cramp after dancing, at first stretches the muscle to obviate the distress ; but he soon finds that the least effort of the muscle brings back the cramp, and that a studied qui- escence is the means of preventing a relaj)se. Observing tbe facts in my own case I have certainly found evidence of this. The spasm that depends on inflammation, is, 1 su])pose, not to be obviated by ]>ressure or extension, but rather by rest, depletion, and anodynes. The pressure of a bandage, besides making a littd) steady, is said to diminish the tendency to spasm ; but this requires limitation. There are states of inflammation which pressure only provokes ; and although with feeble nu- trient actions, jmessnre may cause atrophy and feebleness of muscle, it is not, 1 think, certain that in an opposite condition of body, even where there is no evidence of intlam- matory action, pressure would cause (piics- cence. Of course the reader ])erceives that ' Hoc Dr. Cutler’s I’liietical Guide in Drcsbiiig, &e. compression is equally available in all posture: ■ of the limb ; although those who attach mos consequence to relaxing the muscles, rely leas ■ on the influence of bandage. Cases ot fractured extremities have beei published, to show the advantages of th< straight position, aided by active extensioi when necessary, over the flexed or relaxei position : the method is presumed by some to be more in accordance with the physiolog' • of muscular action, and is said to be effectua towards the prevention of spasm, and thi inflammation and fever connected with it. I. would appear also, from some accounts, tha. these unpleasant symptoms, having previously taken place under other treatment, have after wards yielded on the adoption of this line o practice ; the lindi has been found more steady, the bed less irksome to the patient, and tin. change of position has diminished the liabilit; \ to sloughing. All these views, however, may, be fallacious ; a change of posture is often ; good thing in itself; and a fresh and carefu attempt to re-adjust an ill-set limb cannot bi less so. It has been recommended to allow the ])a tient to assume the sitting posture occasion! ally in the course of the treatment, and therr are cases in which this alleviation should no; be withheld. The straight portion of thn, limb admits of this change most readily ; bun no general plan of treattnent necessarily for bids that intervals of repose of this kin(. should be indulged in. Dr. Houston, who sides with Desault as ai ' advocate for the extended posture, make: some modifications in his apparatus. He firs- uses a tailed bandage, the tails of which ma; be two inches and a half broad, and about tw* feet long, lightly and neatly applied round thi limb to steady and support the muscles ; ver; lightly applied, it may be used as a vehicle fo lotions, and may be omitted in cases of com pound fracture for the more ready attentio: to the wound. His two long lateral splint?' made of deal, are from two and a half to thre and a half inches broad, according as the thigV may be deep or otherwise, but equal to eac: other in breadth, that the limb may not turf to the narrow side, and they must be mad sufliciently stout, that they may not bend The external splint is to be made ot sufiic.en length to lie along the side of the abdomen, i order that the point of resistance may be th better secured, and any necessary extensio more effectually exerted : the hole and notc at cither end of this s])lint are to be as reconi mended by Desaidt. Two calico or linen bag. filled with bran, and about ouc-third broade- than the splints, are preferred tor pads by Di Houston. In like manner he prefers th band for counter-extension, to be filled wit bran as a bag, that the groin may not be e.\ coriated ; ami to secure the o])])osition ot th sidint to the side, he recommends the cuds t the baud to be made long enough to ])as^ round the abdomen, after it has been secure to the top of the sjilint. Dr. H. turthcr use127 FRACTURE. a footboard with a hole in its centre, through whicli to draw the hand that makes extension on the lower extremity of the limb : the ob- ject of this hole is to form a pulley, so that the band may operate in a perpendicular di- rection, before it is turned and secured to the lower end of the outer splint; the extension shonld be equally made from each side of the limb, and the hand applied as for the reduc- tion of dislocations ; it may be made of a jiiece of calico, several times doubled, and forming a hand about an inch and a half wide ; it must he sufficiently long and smooth to lie flatly. A piece of leather is placed between the hand and the skin, further to prevent any injury from the pressure. We have seen, that in fractures of the femur, just below the trochanters, the upper fragment is drawn forward by the psoas and iliacus muscles : now this projection, which is urged as an objection against the treatment by the straight posture, is said to have gra- dually subsided in a case related by Dr. Hous- ton, and treated by him. The projection was remarkable during the first days after tlic ac- cident, but subsided with gentle pressure on the fore part of the thigh, and the fracture finally assumed a perfect coaptation. In the resent state of our experience, however, this appy event is not to be generally anticipated ; and cases will be met with, in w'hich the up- per fragment is so short and so directly thrust forwards, that its point alone can be pressed on. Dupuj'tren’s * method of flexing the leg, in cases of fracture of the upper part of the femur, was very simple. A sufficient number of pillows adjusted beneath the leg, and a broad bandage to secure the foot to the bed, comprised the whole apparatus. Sir A. Cooper employed a similar plan for instances of fracture within the cotyloid capsule. The double inclined plane, of which very numerous modifications are to be met with among its advocates, may be I’egarded, I think, on the whole, as the favourite apparatus with British surgeons. The following has had too many concerned in its construction for us to be able to ascribe it to a single inventor. Fig. SO. Fig. 322 represents a douhle in- clined plane, which is chiefly em- ployed for fractures affecting the inferior half of the thigh. A thigh piece, a, the lower end of v’hich is capaltle of graduated elongation, is united hy means of a hinge (regidated by a mate and female screw, e,j to a leg- piece, 1; and a foot-piece with a shoe and straps is attached by an iron pin, and capable of beim/ afipled for a longer or shorter limb. Fig. 51. Fig. .323 may e.rpkiin a common method of arranging the under part of the preceding figure. The thigh-piece, g, has a rack, f ( in lieu of a male ami female screw,) irith a steel-bar reaching to the middle of Ihe leg-piece, and a sems of buttons along the middle of the thigh-piece by which the Jlemon at the knee, is regulated. At the upper end of the thighs piece, h, is a sliding metal plate, vnlh rounded ami ciierlcd edges, and twt> screws sliding in grooves or fissures, i, by which the lemith of the, tliigfi-splint may be suited to ddfl'erent limits as occasions rei/uire. tdluds, I I, are. distri- buted about the leg and Ihiijh- pieces, and serve 'to mdke 'the s'raps or tia.mlage more secure. A pelvis-strap, A Jig., single or double. Is retpdred to jlv the, splint to the, tmdy and short thigh-splints to produce comjircs- si/m bifore and laterally. A more simple form of the double inclined plane than is generally usml, is preferred by some surgeons The patient lies upon bis Mck, with the limb supported in a flexed po- sition, by a frame, which consists of two boards, ten or eleven inches wide, the one supporting the thigh, from the ischium to the ham, and the other reaching from the ham to the heel; and the two are united at an angle under the knee-joint: two inclined planes are thus formed, and the whole is based upon a long horizontal board that rests upon the bed. Over these sloping surfaces, to which cushions arc adajited, the limb is to be placed. An outer and an inner splint arc to be applied along the thigh, after the displace- ment has been reduced; and the edges of the inclined planes, along which holes have been previously prepared, arc then furnished with pegs that inclose the whole. Without a foot- board and roller, however, the leg and foot cannot be sufficiently fixed ; and then this appa- ratus is less comiiletc than the oblique planes of Arncsbury and MHidyrc, which admit of being inclined to any angle. A pelvis and thigh straps add much to their efficiency, and In fractures near the trochanters, deformity must almost necessarily ensue, if something equiva- lent to the pelvis strap be not cmjiloyed. The double inclined plane, as usually con- ' As a siirgiral writer, not only on frarturos Imt on nil i.nietind snbjeets, |)erhii|.s it is not easy to' find a nnmoot mmlern days to set before that ofTtuonv- trrii, * ^FRACTURE. 128 structed, chiefly for the sake of flexing the limb, often appears to be wanting in a steady support to the fracture ; its capabilities of effecting extension also are extremely limited. It is objected that sloughing often follows the pressure to which a portion of the buttock is exposed by the weight of the body falling upon so limited an extent of surface, and that the patient is, at the same time, less able to vary his bearing on the bed, from the compara- tively unmanageable nature of the apparatus. It is further objected to the double inclined plane, that wdiilst the lower portion of the broken bone, and the leg and foot connected with it are quite fixed ; the upper portion cannot be so secured against the movements of the body, but that the fractured surfaces will ride apart or grind against each other ; and in fractures near the trochanters it be- comes more especially difficult to confine them. In other words, the pelvis and thigh strap are not considered as efficient with the leg bent, as with the long splints and pads, which, applied in the extended posture, may reach to the arm-pit on the one side and the perineum on the other. Fig. 52. S' llwttllll Fig .324 illusirates the. commonest form of fracture of the cervix femork. The plane of separation is sonic- xchat ohVupte, very near the head, and yci periosteal hands maintain some eonncaiun between the sliajt and head. The reparation in such rases is more to be. considered as a feeble process ofivastiny. Further consideration of the advantage and difficulties of particular apparatus ma now be referred to the occasion which th study of each particular kind of fracture wi lead us to. Whether, for any particular kind of case, certain uniform effect may be obtained, by th adoption of any one posture or method of trea: ment, remains to be settled by experience; an I do not doubt that it soon will be, both wit reference to the restoration of a good limb, an the diminution of suffering on the part of thi patient. The only solid foundation for thi. experience lies in a precise discrimination c, cases, and an accurate appreciation of ever rational point which may modify them at th' onset and in their course. With regard to the period at which th thigh should be reduced, after it has beei broken, there may be some question. Ti place the limb in as easy, or as nearly natura a position as may be, is at once desirable An excited condition of the muscles is a jus reason for delay; and the interval should bi employed in mild attempts to subdue it or even in active depletion, when it is to hi feared that inflammatory mis: chief is about to be set up After active depletion or pro tracted wasting, some extensioi may with care be safely employ cd, and will generally be at tended with good success. Fractures of the Keck of the Thigh-bone. The accidents which have generally been designated bj this name include fractures it three distinct parts of the fe mur; in two of which portions union is generally allowed t( take place, as in other fractures by means of callus; in the othet portion, how’ever, the peculiari ty of defective union is gene rally to be met with. Upoi this circumstance, which is suf ficiently important, much ha: been written, but, gcnerall} speaking, too hastily. The first of the three divi sions consists of fractures whicl isolate the head, or a part o it, within the cavity of the joint so as to cut off all source ot lui' trition or reparation, except that from the vessels of the rounc ligament. The second scries comprises lesions between the trochanters, and that ]>art of the bone which is not efficiently covered by vascular tissues. The third set involves injuries of (he tro- chanters and the shaft together. 'Fheso diffe- rent injuries occur sci)arately or conjointly129 FRACTURE. but it will be most satisfactory to consider them as they occur simply. In examining- a great variety of specimens of injury to the upper end of the femur, the first observation, that it occurs to me to make, refers to the comparative immunity from lesion of the articular surface ; which, though prone to diseases, is remarkably protected from in- juries. It is very rarely found, that a fissure traverses its cartilage, or even involves a mar- gin of the articular surface. The next general fact is, that two kinds of injury are to bo distinguished; namely, a more or less simple transverse division of the neck, caused mostly by alighting violently on the foot or knee; and a crushed or commi- nuted fracture, produced commonly by a late- ral blow on the trochanter, often with parts more or less impacted. Again, when repara- tion is observable, it is a palpable fact, that, in proportion as the fracture or any part of it is more or less near the articular surface, the bony callus and all the deposits of inflamma- tion are scanty or abundant. The several fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone much more frequently occur than dislocations of its head. By Dupuytren the order of the causes as to frequency is thus specified: 1. Falls on the trochanter. 2. Direct violence, such as that of a gun-shot. 3. Falls on the foot or knee. 4. Muscular action, as once reported to have occurred in tetanus. The relative frequency of the accident from falls upon the trochanter, according to Desault’s experience, was twenty-four out of thirty cases. A slip off the edge of the foot pavement is observed by Sir A. Cooper to be the most common cause of the accident in London ; but this observation probably refers to his hospital practice, and therefore to more able-bodied persons than those numerous sub- jects of this kind of injury, who occupy our poor-houses, &c. Sir A. Cooper remarks, that a fracture with- in the capsular ligament seldom occurs but in advanced life; and he ascribes it to the inter- stitial absorption that then takes place in this part of the femur, and to the alteration of its angle with the shaft, that happens in indivi- duals at that period of life. The patients under Sir A. Cooper and Dupuytren with this accident were almost all of them above fifty years of age, and the frequency of the accident they found to in- crease with the increase of age. Dupuytren notices also how rarely such an accident oc- curs in young persons, and that in his whole practice he never met with the accident in a child. Dupuytren also considers that some of the cases in children, sujjposcd to have been fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, may possibly have been separations of the epiiihy- sis. In the museum at Guy’s Hospital is a specimen of fracture of the neck, involving tlic trochanters, in a child about nine years of age ; but even in this the reparation is quite < elicicrit near tho head, although abundant below. Fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone is rare in adults under a certain age, but not so uncommon as in children. Women of advanced age are more frequently the sub- ject of these fractures than men of a like period of life. The different degrees of frequency w'itli which these fractures occur, at different pe- riods of life, and in the two sexes, may be as- cribed to differences of anatomical and other circumstances. Thus, in childhood, the axis of the neck approaches that of the shaft, and the trochanter then forms but a slight projection; it is also then concealed under the prominence of the os innominatum, which, therefore, pro- tects it in falls upon the side of the pelvis. The diminutive breadth of the pelvis, the greater flexibility of the neck of the thigh- bone, and the adipose and cellular tissue co- vering the trochanter, are also protective in the child. In adults of a certain age, the mass and solidity of bone has increased everywhere in the skeleton, the neck of the femur has be- come longer, and the angle formed with the shaft of the bones has also become more con- siderable. In advanced life, the width of the pelvis is still extreme ; the neck of the thigh is at a right angle with the shaft; the tro- chanter is very prominent; the organization of the bone is diminished, and it is rendered brittle, by the increase of the phosphate of lime, or, rather, by a process of atrophy. The greater frequency of the accident in age is fur- ther influenced by the diminished size and pro- minence of the muscles ; and the decrease in the quantity of the adipose and cellular tissue. The very liability to fall, and on the trochan- ter in particular, is, in a degree, peculiar to old age, and its want of alertness. The greater frequency of these fractures in women is as- cribed by Dupuytren to the neck of the fe- mur being longer, and to the trochanter being more prominent; and the size and prominence of the muscles, which deaden a fall when it occurs,_ being less in this sex than in the other, increases their liability. Dupuytren also remarks, considerable emaciation to be oftener present in aged women than in men ; and that there is a greater brittleness in their osseous texture; and he states that when the general conformation of men, in tho breadth of tho pelvis, tho length of tho neck of the femur, and the projection of the trochanter, more resembles that of women, their liability to these accidents is similarly conspicuous, lie asserts, indeed, that there is a direct ratio between this accident and the degree of pro- minence of the trochanter, tho length of tho neck of tho femur, and its angle with tho body of tlio bone ; all which we know may yaiy with the time of life, tho sox, and tho individual. When, however, as often occurs, the violence which causes these fractures is slight, we must attribute much to tho enfee- bled state of tho bone itself, in which it will probably lie found the whole skeleton particl- [mtos.130 FRACTURE. Sir A. Cooper lias made a series of obser- vations on the head of the femur in old ajje, whieh are quite indispensable to our know- ledge both of the fractures, and of the mode of reparation in these parts. “ The neck of the thigh-bone,” he says, “ in persons of middle age, has a close cancellated structure, and is covered with a shell of considerable thickness; but, in old subjects, the cancellated structiu-e degenerates into a coarse net-work, loaded with adipose matter; and the shell which covers it becomes so thin, that when a section is made through the middle of the head and cervix, it is found diaphanous ; of this I have several specimens. As the shell becomes thin, ossific matter is deposited on the upper side of the cervix, opposite the edge of the acetabulum, and often a similar portion at its lower ]jart, and thus the strength of the bone^ is in some degree preserved : this state maybe frequently seen in very old persons. When the absorp- tion of the neck proceeds faster than the deposit ^ on its surface, the bone breaks from the slightest causes, and this deposit wears so much the appearance of an united fracture, that it might easily be mistaken for it. Be- fore the bone thus alters, we sometimes meet with a remarkable buttress shooting up from the shaft of the bone into its head (formed of strong cancelli) giving it additional support to that which it receives from the deposit of bone upon its external surface. But another change is also produced from disease, of which the following is the history. Old, bed-ridden, and fat persons, generally females, often used to be brought into our dissecting room with some of their bones broken, and more fre- quently the thigh-bone than any other, in being removed from the grave. If the cervix femoris of such persons be examined, it will be found that the head of the bone is sunk down upon its shaft, and that the neck ot the thigh-bone is shortened, so that its head is in contact with the shaft of the bone oppo- site to the trochanter minor; and at the point at which the ligament is inserted into the neck of the bone, the phosphate of lime is absorbed, and a ligamento-cartilaginous sub- stance occupies its place; either extending (as a plane), entirely through the neck of the bone, or partially, so that one section exhibits signs of it, and in another it is wanUiig. The bone, in some cases, is so soft and fragile, both in its trochanters and head, that it will scarcely boar the slightest handling ; and the motion of the thigh-bones in the acetabulum is almost entirely lost, so that the ])orsons must have had little use in their lower extremities. In examining the body of an old subject, very much loaded with fat, in the dissecting room ' Sec gcncnil rcniaiks on exciivalion of bone, page 2 It may happen, as from rheumatic inflammation, tliat the ossification on tlie neck, even to the margin of the artiriiliir »hall bcconic cxeesBive ; iiiul even tlie solidity of the eanccllns is in some rast's pic- ternatnial, in connexion perhaps vvilli general preilis- posilion. of St. Thomas’s Hospital, I found that fl gentleman who had dissected one limb, ha cut through the capsular ligament of the hi] joint, and tried to remove the head of th thigh-bone from the acetabulum; but tli nock of the botie broke on the employmei of a very slight force, and, upon a furtht trial to remove it, the bone crumbled unde his fingers. As the other limb was not ye dissected, 1 requested Mr. South, one of oi demonstrators, to remove, with care, the u| ]ier part of the other thigh-bone ; but, a though he used great caution in doing it, h could not remove the bone without fracturin the upper part ot its shaft; but he succeeded in removing the upper jiart of the bone, s-i that it might be preserved ; and of this have given ]>lates. “ We have here then a case in which th i neck of the bone was absorbed, so that tli ^ head was brought in contact with the tre chanter ; in which, most decidedly, there ha not been a fracture, although it had in som i parts the appearance of one ; and in whic the disease occurred in each hip-joint. “ Another case of the same kind was ex amined by Mr. South, M’hich, so far as i ! relates to the softened state of the ujiper par of the thigh-bone was similar to the formerr the heads were spongy, the necks were short • ened, so that there "was scarcely any remain.' ing ; each trochanter was light in weight am very large ; and there was little if any mo tion in either of the hip-joints, so that boti limbs appeared at first sight, as if dislocate on the pubes. But the best specimen of thii state is the following, which I preserve witi the most assiduous care, and value in tlr highest possible degree : I have had fo twenty years in the collection of St. Thomas’- hospital—the thigh-bone of an old person in which the head of the bone had sunk to wards its shaft. 1 have been in the habit o showing this bone twice a year as a specimei how bones sometimes become soft from agi and disease, and from the absorption of thei phosphate of lime, and 1 have frequently cu with a pen-knife, both its head and its con dyles, to show this softened state. On sawing through its cervix, the cartilage, dejnived o- its phosphate of lime, had dried away ii several parts, and the ajtpearance was such that a person ignorant of the change, wouh have declared it to be a fracture ; only, tha ' in some sections the cartilage had taken dil ferent directions, (as a thin ])lane between tin head and neck), and in some the bone wu; not yet entirely absorbed. We have also, ii the museum of St. Thomas’s Hos|)ital, a ske Icton, ill which both the thigh-bones and cad os humeri, arc, in a subject, extremely altcie< by rickets, divided by similar jiortimis of car tilage, in which no ossific matter exists®.” From the above we find the necessity o very imjiortaut distinctions; hirst, relative ti ® Treatise on dislocation and fiwtiirrs of llie joints edited by Bransby Tl. t'oojiei'. <131 FRACTURE. the kind of fracture ; for still the majority of cases do not betray much evidence ot the previous atrophic changes which a few mani- fest. Secondly, as to the indisposition to repair ; which will bear some pro))ortion to the state of atrophy. Thirdly, as to the ap- pearances which simulate bony reunion ; and wdiich may be fallacious, either from the effects of absorption, or of superficial ossifi- cations. The place at which the epiphysis becomes consolidated, would seem at times to be the seat of peculiar derangements. The fracture of the neck of the femur is usually said to be more commonly a trans- verse than an oblique one. Cases of trans- verse fracture occasionally, though rarely, hap- pen in which the neck of the bone is wedged into the body of the femur. The low'er the fracture is, or the more it involves the trochanters, the more w'C may look for obliquity, comminution or crushing, and displacement, and also for impaction and shortening. The diagnosis of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone is not always uniform as to its signs; especially where the division is within the capsular ligament. We should expect to find acute pain, inability to walk, or e\en to rise from the ground; shorten- ing and relaxation of the limb, an everted foot and knee, diminished prominence of the hip, the knee a little benl ; and crepitus when the limb is drawn down, and slight rotations ])erformcd. A contusion of the hip will sometimes simulate a fracture of the neck of the femur; and the actual or partial division of this part is said to have occurred with effects so slight as not to hinder the patient from rising and walking hotne. The subjects of such injuries have been even known to get up and walk on the day following that on which the accident occurred. This circumstance would seem sometimes to be owing to one portion of the fracture being impacted or wedged into the other, within the capsular ligament; or a cer- tain degree of coajjtation, together with sup- port from ligaments and muscles, may exj)lain this persistent power of locomotion in a case of complete fraction : but we should remember, that possibly the fracture has been incom- plete in the first instance, and that the com- jilete division may have boon subso({uently effected, by exertion, by the surgeon, or other- wise otdy after death. The shortening of the limb, when the power to walk remains, may amount only to a few lines. This renders the accident loss easily discriminated, since a slight ascent ot the pelvis will follow a mere contusion ; and it is this occasionally insignificant degree of ^ dis])lacement which seems to create the chief uncertainty in the diagnosis of the acci- dent. After a time, more or less remote from the occurrtmcc ot the injury, sometimes fifty, sixty, or eighty <iays, tlic fracture may beecjino more manifest, as if from a separation of tin; fragments having taken place. But this change is most reasonably to be attributed to a combination of causes. The weight of the body or of the limb, the action of the mus- cles, or the employment of any kind of ten- sion on the part of the surgeon, some of the fragments giving way or becoming wasted, or ligamentous parts relaxed, must produce some effect. It has been suggested, that the in- creased shortening may most frequently de- pend on the yielding of the fibrous covering of the cervix in particular. It is an important general truth, that more or less considerable shortening attends cases of fracture of the neck of the femur. The degree of retraction is variously stated ; it must evidently depend much upon the direc- tion and extent of the fracture, the injury to soft parts, and the form and solidity of the tissues injured. It appeal’s that retraction is almost entirely prevented, so long as the fibrous covering of the divided bone remains entire ; but tbe value of this, rather theoreti- cal remark, belongs chiefly to the illustration of the fact, that we may every now and then meet with cases of comparatively little lesion; and it is, doubtless, important to know, that both the manipulation for diagnosis, and that for treatment may be pernicious ; as may also the neglect of cautious treatment for a quarter of an hour. The fact, that incomplete fractures, ex- tending in an oblique direction through the neck of the femur, may readily be effected after death ; and the dissections by Dr. Colics, proving that fractures do not always extend completely through the neck of the femur, not only prove the necessary absence of all retraction in some fractures, but add confirma- tion to such cases as are related by Mr. Stanley, illustrative of this point*. According to Sir A. Cooper, the extent of shortening in cases of fracture within the cap- sule, may be from one inch to two inches, and we conceive that this statement is scarcely too free; while Mr. Smith, of Dublin^ states it to be oidy from a quarter of an inch to one inch ; and from one inch to two inches and a half in fractures that occur external to the caj)sule. The greatest degrees of short- ening attend some fractures below the tro- chanters. When the capsule of the joint is exten- sively torn, a state which may also, in jjart, be ])roduccd by the attcm])t to walk ; or, when the fracture, being external to the capsule, the whole force of muscular action draws up the lower fragment, and the weight of the body acts upon the upper, the trochanters may be retracted to the edge of the acetabu- lum, or even towards the ilium ; effecting a shortening of the limb to the extent of two or three inches. Of course, comminution is a cause of considerable shortening. Of fifteen cases, carefully examined by Mr. ' Alc'd.-Cliir, TniiiB. vol. ,\iii. I)iil)lin .foiiniiil 1)1' iMi'il. Sciciici', vol. vi.FRACTURE. 132 f Smith, of fracture within the capsular liga- ment, one only had been shortened more than one inch; and in this instance the degree of shortening was an inch and a half, but the accident had happened some years previous to the measurement, and the neck of the bone had been absorbed. This is certainly an im- portant statement; tending to modify the ge- neral inference from that of Sir A. Cooper. The causes of the shortening, as before- mentioned, are the united influences of the muscles and the weight of the body; which are generally easily counteracted by a slight extension, but the deformity returns imme- diately such force is discontinued. Sir A. Cooper considered this feature as an evidence of the accidents, and remarked, that it conti- nues till the muscles acquire a fixed contrac- tion. After the shortening has been examined in the recumbent posture, the patient should be supported in the erect position, that it may be further observed how the heel and knee are situated, and how much influence the weight of the limb may have upon the con- traction of the muscles. The prominence of the trochanter major is much diminished when the support and attach- ment of the neck of the bone to the shaft is destroyed by fracture ; the less resisted mus- cles inclining it upwards and backwards to- wards the crista of the ilium : it is, however, readily restored to its original level, by pres- sure in the opposite direction ; and the patient sometimes acquires a voluntary power over the limb whilst it is so reduced. A swelling at the upper and fore part of the thigh, more or less conspicuous as the limb is shortened, may also be observed. The kind and degree of revolution which the great trochanter communicates, when rotated under the hand, as compared with the like in the sound limb, is described as an evidence of the proximity or distance of the fracture from the head of the bone, since the trochanter may turn upon itself, or roll on a longer or shorter radius. All rotation inwards, how- ever, and abduction of the limb also, js parti- cularly painful ; because, says Sir A. Cooper, the fractured j)oints rub against the capsule. Crepitus may be discovered in performing the rotatory motions, especially rotation in- wards, when the limb is not retracted, or when the fractured surfaces arc on a level with each other. It is also often produced by flexing the limb upon the pelvis ; but as the l'*Jih is usually shortened, in the horizontal position, it is seldom observable without proportionate extension. As the severed head of the femur may be capable of following the motions of the shaft, merely from its remaining ])criosteal connexions, it may be necessary (lor precise diagnosis), to fix the head, by pressing on it anteriorly ; or, to give a relatively quicker movement to the shaft (as in rotation), than can be readily communicated to the frirgmcnt in the acetabulum, in order to elicit crepitus. _ Eversion of the toes is a frequent, but n( invariable accompaniment of these fracture The practice of Pare, Petit, and Dupuytrei attest the occasional though extreme rarity ( I inversion. Sir A. Cooper has observed, thi I a period of three or four hours usually clapsf I before eversion is quite manifest; which h considers the result of the more fixed cor tractions of the muscles. The settled resist ■ ance to rotation inwards, he considers as ■ further proof of the contracted state of th muscles, although this may be in part owin to the projection of the neck from the sha: against the ilium. Dupuytren attributes both eversion and ir j version, to the oblique inclination of the frag I ments ; and he expects the one or the othe, i according as the fractured portions respec i lively assume a backward or forward directioi * Bichat was of opinion, that the weight of th : foot might be the cause of the more genen i direction of the toes outwards ; and he object i ed to the imputed influence of the rotator an ; adductor muscles towards such effect, on th ground, that all these muscles, except th quadratus, M’ere in a state of relaxation, fror their attachments being approximated by th fracture^; but the general influence of th' muscles is to draw up the trochanter, and thu to operate against the relaxation of the ro tators, and even augment their influence. Thi flexors of the hip are evertors ; and perhap the most evident invertors are the two ischio tibial muscles ', by which the heel is preventei turning too much inwards, when, the leg, bein' advanced and extended, might obstruct th( other foot, which is next to be set forwards as in running. To obtain an adequate explanation, how ever, of the cause of inversion of the limb the direction of the fracture, in reference t( the attachments of the muscles, must be con sidered. The inversion which attends fracture withii the capsule, still remains to be fully accountei for, but the question to be resolved may bi simply this ; what causes prevent the usua effects of the rotators and gravity in thcsi ■' cases? The answer must depend on specifi' : examinations of the parts injured. Inversion of the loot, arising from fractiin of the neck of the femur, may be distinguish cd from the somewhat similar appearanci which takes place in dislocations upon tin dorsum of the ilium, and into the sciatii notch, by regarding the degree of tin deformity. In dislocation of the femur upoi the dorsum of the ilium, the^ patient beinf erect, the great toe rests against the instej of the other foot ; in dislocation into tin sciatic notch, the great toe is seen resting against the ball of the opposite great toe whilst in fracture of the neck of the femur attended with this rare symptom, the toes arcs ’ It is csspiitinl, in progression, that the toes sliovih tarn ontwiirds and not strike tlie opposite heel: am , eversion is the position of niuseular repose ; for exam- ])le, the position ‘stand at ease.'FRACTURE. r 133 i less completely turned inwards than in either ] of the luxations. The immobility of the fl whole limb in dislocation, as compared with ; the same in fracture, is a still further indica- tion of the true nature of the accident; the I slight force with which the foot may be t everted (though productive of much pain), I and flexion and extension of the thigh, when i they can be performed, are very distinctive. Fracture through the trochanters with in- version of the foot, most resembles dislocation I upon the dorsum of the ilium. Eversion of the foot also takes place to a considerable extent in the oblique fractures that occasionally happen through the tro- chanter major, without any injury of the neck of the bone. Three or four cases of falls on the feet or knees have occurred to Dupuytren, where i the acetabula have been fractured and forced inwards by the head of the femur. It was in one of these that the head of the femur was forced, uninjured, and without any fracture of the neck, entirely into the pelvis; and the neck of the bone was so forcibly encircled in the fractured acetabulum, that, though in the dead subject, it was only with great difficulty withdrawn. It is well to be aware that such difficulties occasionally exist. The shortening and immobility, in such a case, and the sinking of the trochanter, would be strongly marked. The subject of the reunion of fractures of the neck of the femur within the capsule, has received much illustration from the careful I observations and judiciously recorded expe- I Hence of Sir A. Cooper. His remark, that I in cases of transverse fracture within the I capsular ligament, he had never met with bony union, or with any that did not admit of motion of one bone upon the other, has elicited much discussion ; but he never denied the possibility of reunion by bone, which is now recognised by many. The course which the investigation of this subject has taken is, however, not quite satis- factory to contcm])late. The main consider- ation was, that in proportion as a fragment of the head of the femur was deprived of vascu- lar supply, its reunion must become arrested; and every fresh set of observations, at home or abroad, has only tended to corroborate this opinion ; or to demonstrate that proofs to the contrary were defective. The rash inferences of many, and the overstrained deductions of the more careful opponents of Sir A. Cooper, I are, I think, hardly entitled to more than the ■' merit of having trimmed the lamp which he 1 had lighted. Mr. S. Cooper says, that Sir Astley Cooper subsequently possessed a satisfactory specimen of bony union within the capsule. Mr. Bransby Cooper subsequently says, “ I am (juite of Sir A. Cooper’s opinion, that ' fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, do not, excepting under very peculiar circumstances, unite by bone, and that the exception occurs only when the periosteum and reflected membrane of the .. i neck of the bone have not boon torn through, and when, therefore, the fractured surfaces are not separated from each other.” This gentleman justly advances, as grand impedi- ments to the reunion, advanced age, the want of nutrition to the peninsular bone, and the deficiency of soft callus to contract and co- aptate the fragments. I learn also, from Mr. B. Cooper, that to the last Sir Astley ex- pressed himself as never having seen a con- clusive illustration of that, which he could not still deny to be a possible occurrence : for my own part, I do not yet admit the belief, that after thirty years of age, even useful^ ligamentous union can take place after a com- plete transverse division of the neck of the femur; even though considerable bands of periosteum retain a connexion with the head. The circumstances that are said to induce ligamentous, rather than the bony union, arc, such as the scanty nourishment supplied to the head of the bone when insulated from all connexions but the ligamentum teres ; and the w’ant of close and steady contact of the fragments, aided by the occurrence of the accident most commonly in the weakened constitutions of aged people. All writers have been extremely ready to speak of ligamentous union of the fragments ^ in the cases in question; yet the deficiency of all organized reunion, is in the general not less remarkable than the want of new bone. Fig. 305 represents the rare case of liga- mentous union of the head ; but, notwithstand- ing the description of it, the inquirer should still reserve his judgment of the case. The proof that there has been fracture here, par- tial or complete, or any kind of injury at any age, is wanting altogether; and supposing that a fracture had preceded, its site, and the con- sequent condition of periosteum are unknown. Considering the case as it is, one of a massive ligamentous layer, like intervertebral sub- stance comjfletcly uniting two surfaces, it remains to be inquired—is it any thing more than imperfect union of an epiphysis, perhajis resulting from injury? but still more should we ask, seeing the neck of the bone is all lost by atrophy, where did the original division exist as relates to the capsule? The parts are in the Museum at Guy’s Hosi)ital. Mr. Howship records nine cases, occurring in females, only, between the years 1828 and 1833 ; aged, when the accidents happened, between 50 and 79 years. Only three were under 75 years of age. These patients sur- vived their injuries, respectively, 1, 2, 5, 5, 8, and 10 months, and 2, 8, and 14 years. The ages attained by the three last were, 79, 75, and G2 years. Thickctiings of the articular capsule, wasting of the cervix femoris and ' After all, tlio practical question relates only to usp^ul reparation, ami tins in trntli dcpemls on tliick- cnine of soft tissues around. ’’If there be found no more than a few liqa- inentons cords uniting the broken surface, the cascT is not worth s])caking of, though 1 much doubt the cor- rectness of even tiieso statements. K134 FRACTURE. Fig. 53. Fig. 325. Fracture of the neck of the femur ivilh liga- mentoxis union. a. Head of the. femur. h. Trochanters. c. Thickened capsule (f the joint. d. Line of compact ligamentous matter, uniting the head and body of the femur. e. Cancellated cavity of the shaft. A female, cet. 66, fell on the ground. The limb was found shortened two inches and a half, and everted. She died at the end of the fifth month from the time of the ac.cident. The capside teas found thickened; the round ligament wasted to a few shreds, and de- tached from the femur; the neck of the bone had disappeared. The interspace of the fragment was very slicjld superiorly. This case is most probvddy one of fracture near the tro- chanters, since the most natural circumstances apjwar to be absorption, in consequence of the nutrition being ad off. The round ligament often wastes or disap- pears in sueh cases ,* and the head remains to fill the cavity, tmause it is rendered mechanically incapidde (so io'speak) of collapsing in consequence ^ its situa- tion in the midst of unyieldina walls I he case is related by Mr. Howship, in the Med.-Chir. Jrans- actions (vol. xix. case 8). The drawing is in my p0SHCi(si07l. round ligament, and little or no reunion, or even repair, were j)retty generally remarkable —Fig. 325, however, represents one ot the above. Mr. H. takes no notice of any osseous reparation in his eases. Fig. 309 may again deceive the observer. The upper synovial cavity is ])robably an ad- ventitious biirsa against the trochanter ; and even the new synovial cell in the neck ot I lie femur may be whol- ly a gradual forma- tion. The ligament between the two cavities seems only a vestige of origi- nal capsule, or pe- riosteum. There are un- questionable cases of old fracture of' the cervix femoris- without any union,, in every museum.. Sir A. Cooper early recorded upwards • of forty, and, doubt- ■ less, saw' many more subsequently; they might probably be ■ reckoned by hun-- dreds ; while the supposed cases of bony, or even liga- mentous reunion are scarcely to be counted by tens, and those in vari- ous degrees doubt- • ful. We should de-- mand of those w’ho are most confident about the latter, to show' the early and partial stages of this union ; but even these are wanting; because, it is alleged, they are so slowly produced. Mr. Mayo gives tw'o cases, exemplitying the appearances usually found on dissection ; and observes, “ there are features m them which make it sufficiently clear, that the ab- sence of bony union does not result irom imperfect nutrition, or inadequate supply ot blood to the separated portion b” Mr. Mayo “ believes the process ot ossifi- cation to be extremely slow. Such instances occur in those only w'ho are not greatly a - vanced in life at the time of the ffiacture, and in whom, through the care with which the. joint is kciit at rest, direct union by soft sub- stances takes place between the separated portions. Nothing, in truth, is then vvante ^ for the restoration of the part but time. How long will it not be before all these happy' concomitants are met with ? F ic injury is rare before advanced life; the care to keep the joint at rest is rarely availing; and the soft union which precedes ossification tor a >e«gth of time, is at least but little known. Docs not ligamentous union preclude the ^ssihc. None of the preparations examined by Mi. Crosse, in the museunis of Fans, seem to have afibrded him one satisfactory instance of bony union occurring after fracture ot the neck ol^ the femur within the capsule. i I 0\itlinc8 of ITumtin Pathology.135 FRACTURE. The greater number of cases examined by Sir A. Cooper, in reference to ossific union, exhibited only slight attempts for its produc- tion upon the neck of the bone, and the tro- chanter major: but scarcely any upon the head of the bone'; I am not, however, dis- posed to think, that Sir A. Cooper designed to imply that ossification is materially defec- tive about the roots of the trochanters. The dissections furnished by Dr. Colles of Dublin, exemplified, in every instance, either very considerable, or total absorption of the neck of the bone, and an increased thickness of the capsule. The production of ligamen- tous bands, or thickenings of periosteal fibres, were also very generally observed. He men- tions one case of fracture within the capsule especially, where no other effort towards re- union appeared ; and where the stability of the limb depended only upon such bands, assisted by the extraordinary development, in thickness, of the capsular ligament. In Dr. Colles’ first and second dissections, no appearance of commencing reunion was discovered; the surfaces of the fracture moved upon each other, and had in appear- ance somewhat the nature of ivory; ligamen- tous productions from the capsular ligament to the exterior of the bone only, attached them together. In the third dissection a slight attempt at reunion had been made. The sixth dissection offered an instance of the most perfect kind of reunion which some suppose ever happens to this fracture,—the new' bond of union was also covered by the reflected synovial membrane or periosteum of the neck. In the seventh, eighth, and ninth, a partial fracture only appeared to have occurred, the solution of continuity not extending com- pletely through the neck of the bone, but the part of the neck that was not fractured, was softened, and appeared more like carti- lage than bone. In the tenth and eleventh cases. Dr. Colles considered the reunion to be effected by a substance very different in its nature to callus, though not much less firm ; he thought it also peculiar to fracture of the neck of the femur'', Mr. Amesbury refers to the following cases. A woman, about fifty years of ago, with ever- sion of foot and shortening of the limb, was confined to bed twelve months, and for ten years afterwards walked on crutches; after death the shortening was two inches and a half, and the preparation of the case showed it to be a fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule ; considerable absorption of the neck had taken place; the head and remaining part of the neck were united prin- cipally by bone ; and the rest by a cartilagi- nous substance ; the capsular ligament was greatly thickened, and closely embraced the joint. Another case, a dissection nine months after the fracture, j)rescnted a thickened capsule, ' Mr. Itiinlrr’s acronnt of tlic rasp is, that tlir shaft oflors union, hut the head is inranatilc of arreptinir it. Dublin Hospital Reports. very much shortened neck, and considerable bony deposit. A third dissection, twelve months after the accident, discovered a very much contracted capsule, with a broad and liga- mentous band on each side of the joint; and an oblique fracture about an inch long, ex- tending downwards immediately from the head of the bone, with the lower portion of the fracture outside the capsule, not united. In a fourth dissection, the necks of both femora had been broken ; the surfaces of the fracture on the right side, which had had no surgical attempt tow'ards producing union, were quite ununited, except at the edges, where there w’as junction by means of a fibri- nous matter, which at one part was strong. The other cervix had been broken within the capsule, close to the head, and was firmly united; the neck was nearly all absorbed, and the head depressed, and connected by strong bands to the capsule, which was also much contracted and thickened. The callus had become can- cellated. This last remark makes me suspect that fracture had not occurred. The following requires more careful con- sideration A youth, eighteen years of age, fell from the top of a loaded cart, and alighted on his right hip. He became wholly unable to move the limb, and suffered severely when any one moved it. “ The thigh was bent to a right angle with the pelvis, and could not by any means be extended. Abduction of the thigh was difficult. The limb was everted, at first slightly, afterwards in a greater degree.” There was no shortening, but rather the con- trary in appearance ; no crepitus was disco- vered, but there was considerable swelling around the hip. After consultation upon this uncertain case, an idea of a luxation of the head of the femur into the foramen ovale, led to “the forcible extension of the limb by means of the pulleys, and the thigh then moved in several directions, by which the head of the bone might be replaced in its socket.” About two months after the accident, the patient was received into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. His health was now found to be much deranged. His pulse was frequent and hard. He complained of pain in his head, in the injured hip, and down the opposite side. He remained nearly in the same state for about a month. An eruption, as of small-pox, appeared, and two days afterwards he died. 1 he hip alone appeared disordered on exa- mination. “ The capsule was entire, but a little thickened. The round ligament was uninjured. A line of fracture extended ob- liquely through the neck of the femur, and entirely within the capsule. The neck of the bone was shortened, and its head, in conse- quence, apjiroximatcd to the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces were in close apposi- tion, and finally united nearly in their whole extent by bone. There was an irregular de- posit of bone upon the neck of the femur, ^ Tills rnsc is rrlntrd liy Mr. Stanley in the Med. Cliir. Transaelions, vol. x\Hii. K 2FRACTURE. 136 beneath its synovial and periosteal covering along the line of the fracture. 1 regret that we have not more complete accounts, as well as engravings, of this valuable case. It must not be admitted as unobjection- able ; but supposing a complete fracture to have occurred, it is to be remarked, that a cer- tain degree of obliquity is incompatible with the subsequent assertions, or, rather, conclu- sions. An oblique fracture at this age, with shortening of the neck, and bony reparation, entirely within the capsule, three months after the infliction of the injury, are not enough to establish the fact that the first injury did not reach external to the capsule ; for the subsequent changes may have car- ried the limits of the capsule nearer to the trochanters. Suppose this to have been a case of complete fracture ; suppose even the rigid flexion to have been, moreover, a par- tial luxation, (for the capsule seems to have suffered,) an oblique fracture of the neck would leave the detached portion an abundant periosteum, and would render coaptation very forcible by the wedging up of the lower frag- ment. By way of explaining the degree of organization of the parts at this age, I may re- fer to the statement formerly made, that the epiphysis seems to be a solid expansion of periosteum, whose function, until active growth has ceased, is scarcely arrested. Does not the shortening of the neck at this growing age, positively require that the capsule should descend to include more of the neck than it did previously to the injury ? Fig. 54. imvarih and upwards as in the dotted line. Tn the case referred to, I think the inclination of the head is even more outwards, and the t/reat trochanter is larger, and higher; and. distinctly an epiphysis as the head. 'The interspace of the fragments is drawn cr^ roneously. Thus much I had written previous to having examined the specimen here spoken of, in St. Bartholomew’s Museum. After seeing the specimen, however, there seems to be reason for the expression of somewhat different views, though not of the original narrative • of the case. It is evident, that full two inches of the head and neck have been sepa-- rated from the shaft ; this is not quite con-- sistent with the common opinion of fracture entirely within the capsule ; and again, the ■ axis of the head and neck, instead of pointing: upwards, and inwards, is positively directed I upwards and outwards, so that the inferior fractured surface (or that of the shaft), instead : of being opposed to the upper (or that of the neck) is in close contact with the outside of the neck. This seems to me to account for the peculiar deformity in the case. The rigidity I attribute to the muscles. Lastly, the neck and head seem by no means to have' been cut off from periosteal nutrition. The. connexions of the epiphyses are not yet con- solidated. We have seen that rheumatic ossification, may coat the whole cervix femoris, and eveni add a lip to the circumference of the articu- lar cartilage. A longitudinal fracture, first: united by bone without the capsule, would i hardly fail of pretty complete ossification in the end ; an oblique fracture approaches near-- est; and next, perhaps, is a transverse fracture in a young person, when coaptation and nutrU- tion are sustained by active periosteal bands. Mr. Stanley thus writes to Mr. Bransby' Cooper : “ We have in the museum of St. Bartholomew’s, twelve specimens of fractures- in the neck of the thigh-bone; six external to the capsule and united, and six within the. capsule. In three of the latter there is no union, and in the other three there is union by ligamentous matter." Dr. Monro “ had an opportunity of examining two cases after death, and in both of these the broken ends- of the neck of the bone were united by a sub- stance somewhat like to ligament.” Dr. Colies writes, “ I have never yet seen an in- stance of bony union, when the fracture had been within the ligament. We have very many siiccimcns of a disease of the head and neck of the thigh-bone, which i.s of frequent occurrence among our labouring pool. Dr. Colics thought of publishing his opinions,- “ and of endeavouring to show, that in all probability the supposed cases of fracture within the ligament, united by jione, were merely instances of this disease '. 'I'lic reader may now understand, that if a portion of bone be (luile detached from the femur in the acetabulum, there is no reason-; I Si'c ii Treatise on Dislocations, &c. cilited liy j\Ir. Dranshy H. Coo])cr.FRACTURE. 137 able prospect of reunion—that there is a large number of fractures across the neck of the femur, the sole repair of which consists in the thickening of the soft tissues about them— that very little is established concerning bony, or ligamentous union of fractures neari;o the head of the femur. Their occurrence is not to be denied, but they cannot ordinarily be anticipated. With regard then to prog?iosis, we may de- termine, as far as the precise seat of the frac- ture is discoverable, the kind or degree of reparation to be anticipated. Of course, the more the symptoms of fracture within the cap- sule are strongly marked, and the more there is of lesion and displacement, the less reunion is to be looked for. In all kinds of cases, shortening, however guarded against, should rather be expected. Eversion is, perhaps, more readily obviated, but, it demands con- stant watchfulness, to prevent its occurrence. With regard to the treatvient of fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule; the probability of ill-health from long con- finement, is to be weighed against the extreme improbability of effecting any kind of union. That a less degree of lameness is to be ex- pected, according as the consolidation of the parts has been favoured by attention to rest and position, remains to be proved. It has been feebly urged, that the more perfect are the means adopted for apposition, the less n ill be the subsequent lameness; but this leaves the proper method of treatment alto- gether unheeded. In advanced life, fracture within the capsule, attended with a distinct half inch of shortening, has no better prospeet than thickening of the soft tissues around the joint. An unconstrained posture will best suit the health of the patient, and motion will rather tend to increase the repai-ative thick- ening. The extent of injury external to the capsule, which may be doubtful, requires pro- portionate consideration. The fact, that in- flammation, and even suppuration are to be feared in these cases, according to the severity of the injury, the constitution of the sufferer, and to the disturbance caused by the surgeon, is an important consideration. An easy posi- tion, a warm bed, and, in short, comfort, as for a feeble child, are the first subjects for consi- deration. A low form of fever occasionally ushers in a fatal conclusion : good support, therefore, will be very necessary, and it will be borne more easily and advantageously, if all that comfort requires be first attended to. Either the straight posture, as recommended by Desault or Boyer; or the double-inclined plane with the limb flexed, and the patient on his back, may be had recourse to, but with great gentleness. Hagedorn’s plan of fixing the long splint and foot-board to the sound limb, for the purpose of maintaining the right length and position of the injured limb, is preferred in America. A single pillow, placed lengthwise under the whole limb, upon Fig. 55. Fig. 327 shows a com- vwn ajrfiearance of fraclure at the base of the cervix Jhnoris ; out the specimen from which it icas taken af- forded a remarkafdc ptxuliurity. The pa- tient was a man of about seventy years of aye. The neck has, in a manner, slid down over the sluift, which piartly penetrates its cancclii. The bony reunion and thideenwy around was so yreat, a fexc weeks after the accident, that my friend Air. Cock had some susjxicum that the callus, which was fell anteriorly, miyht be the head of the boxie Ilurated. There is much nexD bone about the. tro- clumter minor. There had tsicn distinct short- cnina and eversum of the limb. There is no xu'.ry evident xrastiny oj the neck of the bone.FRACTURE. 138 50. Fracture at the rout of the cervixfetmris, with u. degree of impaction of this part between the trochanters. The union in this case was hy a feeble ligamentous ma- terial, but adjacent parts of the shafi only were encrusted with a little new bone, hi si- milar cases there is generally good bony re- pair, blit sometimes on- ly ligamentous union, and not less frequently there is found a cavity almost devoid of repa- ration. another laid transversely beneath the knee, to keep the limb easily bent, is the treat- ment adojited b}' Sir Astley Cooper; the pa- tient, in a fortnight or three weeks, is per- mitted to sit in a high chair; and exercise with crutches is allowed soon afterwards. A stick is substituted for the crutches after a time, and the shortness of the limb is compensated for, when the treatment is considered com- ])lete, by a sole to the shoe of the necessary thickness. Dupuytren considers one hundred or one hundred and forty days necessary to the due consolidation of the fracture, supposing the case admits of it. We cannot but ])crceive, that confinement for this period must injure the health, and that restriction about the joint must cause wasting; and, at the best, the ulti- mate deformity is not likely to be materially diminished by the most rigid apposition. Finally, 1 would express a hope, that the general views contained in this essay, as to the use of motion and tension in exciting repair, will, in the present cases and in many others, tend to modify the severe restraints which arc commonly recommended. Fractures external to the capsule. Fractures at the very base of the cervix fc- vioris, are only less frequent than those within the capsule. It is often difficult to distinguish the first from the last. It is common to meet with the neck somewhat driven into the shaft, or into the cancelli of the great trochanter* : ' It is commonly and truly said, that the neck is thus embedded in these eases, but the part of thecervLx in this case there is a full half-inch of short-- ening, considerable diminution of the round-- ness, and sometimes of the mobility of ther hip, eversion, and great pain over the part,. especially in moving it. This is more parti-- cularly an accident of persons under fifty, and I generally the force producing it is great. Crepitus is very readily discoverable. Much i contusion, extravasation, inflammation, andl delay belong also to these cases, and they become, in a manner, diagnostic. In the old, they are sometimes followed by fatal fever. Occasionally, the shortening, impaction, andl want of crepitus and mobility, approach, in i degree, to the effects produced when the head is driven through the acetabulum. Fractures of the neck of the femur outside ■ the capsule, were treated by Sir A. Cooper with the double inclined plane ; the patient being j)laced on his back, and the limb in a bent posture. A long splint applied to the outer side of the injured thigh, is then fastened to the pelvis by a strong leather strap, so as • to ))ress one portion of the bone against the other ; the lower end being also secured by a strap to the outside of the knee, dhis po- sition is continued for eight weeks, when the ])atient may leave his bed, should the attempt not jjrove too painful; but the splint is still to be employed for another fortnight. Duj)uytrcn did not resort to lengthened or fi.xed extension. Under his treatment, the patient was first laid upon his back with the s most deeply thrust in, is usually that which is next to the trochanter minor, so that the head of the bone is ^ bent considerably downwards.FRACTURE. 1^9 thigh and the leg flexed; and the displaced outer fragment was then reduced. A double inclined plane was then used, formed of seve- ral pillows placed one above another;—each having been firmly rolled up, and the whole compacted by sewing—another pillow was ))laced lengthwise over the pile, on which the limb was made to rest from the hip to the heel. Sheets folded round the limb, and secured to the four posts of the bed, were also applied to keep the thigh and leg in its right position. The double inclined plane was gradually lowered after the fractured part was consolidated. Fig. 57. Comminuted fracture of the trochanter major from direct violence in an ayedperson. K fracture which separates the trochanter major freely from its attachment, must chiefly result from direct violence, in which, liowovcr, the gluteus medius may take a i>art. The fragment is to l)c discovered loose and widely detached ; not following the movements of the shaft, but mostly affording some cro))itus when dcj)rcs3cd, or when the knee is carried for- wards. this l)art may bo comminuted, or it may be so broken, that its fibrous covering may not allow displacement. An easy i>os- ture, slight flexion, and abduction and pres- sure, will facilitate the reunion, which will be osseous, unless the separation has been great. The detached portion of the trochanter in some cases is drawn forwards towards the ilium, while in others it is found tow'ards the tuberosity of the ischium ; in most cases the fragment is generally far removed from the surface, whence it had been detached. The foot may be benumbed; and the patient expe- riences much pain and difficulty in all attempts to turn himself in bed. The soft tissues, having been inflamed, contract, and the frac- ture readily unites ; and a good use of the limb is regained. The accident may occur at any period of life. The epiphysis only of the great trochanter may be similarly detached. The following case occurred to Mr. C. A. Key. A girl about sixteen years of age tripped and fell, stinking the right trochanter violently against the curbstone. She rose and walked home without much inconvenience. On the sixth day, in consequence of increased pain on the inner side of the thigh, she sought admission at Guy’s Hospital. The constitutional symptoms being violent, she was placed under the care of the physician. The limb was consider- ably wasted, and seemed half an inch longer than the other. It admitted of passive mo- tion in all directions ; but abduction caused considerable pain. Excessive fever led to her death on the ninth day. Suspecting some obscure fracture of the femur, Mr. Key now examined the limb anew, but he could find no crepitus, or inequality, or tumefaction. Pus was formed along the side of the pectineus towards its insertion, and extending behind the cervix femoris. A rupture had detached the great trochanter from the shaft, but without tearing through the tendons on the outer side of the process, namely, those of the two smaller glutei and vastus externus; these served as a hinge which allowed the trochan- ter to be only slightly moved in one direction when exposed by dissection. I have already adverted to fractures imme- diately below the trochanters; which are, hap- pily, not frequent. The flexors of the hip, devoid of all opposition, make the upper frag- ment point forwards, and this requires all the attention ot the surgeon. First to raise the shoulders as much as may be, and then the knee, are the chief points ; but if a double- iilclined plane be enqiloyed, the knee should bo but slightly bent. A straight s])lint, padded so as to give some flexion of the knee, and to elevate the foot, will sometimes answer. Rol- lers to the entire limb, and linn splints about the thigh, will be necessary to give it stability. The farther the fracture is dktnnt frotn the trochanters, the more advantage may be ex- pected from direct means to depress the upper and projecting fragment*. ' In cliilili-cn, pastefionrd nnd rollers, and, pcrlinps, adlicsivo plaster, form the best apparatus; and nice attention secures the best success.FRACTURE. Fig. 58. Fig. 59. Fig. 330. Obliiiue fracture of the shaft of the femur a tittle below the trochanters, rhe under poHioti is drawn uiiusmdly upwards and forwards^ while the upper fragment is directed out- tvards. The new ossifica- tion is abundant,, but prin- cipally betiveen the txuo portions. The above is the representation of an un- common deqree of defor- mity., which almost pro- claims of itself the deside- rata of its treatment. Fig. 331. Mr. Amesbury's Apparatus for fractures of the ujtper part of the femur. “ Composition. Three pieces of board are to be procured of sufficient length to rest upon the sides of Ihebedstcad, 5, by which the apparatus itself is to be raised from the floor. One of these, c c, should be placed near the lower end of the frame, a a; the second near the lower end of the upjper plane, e ; a?id the third near the upper end of the frame. The middle and lower planes, d d, being raised to the proper degree of elevation, rest upon the rack, i, of the frame, and are covered by a hair mattress, ivhich should extend the xcluile length also of the plane, e, as they lie connected toge ther. The mattress should be provided with a hole at tlui part which corresponds to the middle plane of the apparatus. A blanket and sheet, luith a hole in each, to correspond to the hole in the mattress, are to bo applied over this, and stitched round the edge, III, atid round the hole in the centre, placed op- posite the trap-door, f in order to prevent them from getting into folds and in- commoding the patient. “ Application.—77<e patient is to be placed upon the mattress with the penneum opptosite the hole in the middle plane of the ajrjMratus ; and the lower limbs, m m, over the double inclined plane. The fool of tlus injured limb should then be fixed by meuxis of a baxid, 71, and a pad pUwed just helow the catcimal malleo- lus, to the foot-board, k, which will keep it upright, with the heel close down against the mattress. After ichich the middle plane, d, shoidd be adapted to the length of the sound thigh, by the txuo portions of board ofu-hich it is composed, being xnovea upoxi each other so as to elongate or shorien it as it may be foxind xie- cessaxy ; it is fixed by the screw, g. The pxeh'is and^ lixxib 7ttay Ixc thus kept perfectly (ptiet, and xxwtioxi of the fragxnents totally px-erexxted ; coxitixxued ca'tevsioxi may Itc, xnude ixi the lixic of the thigh-lxoxus and x'etruc- lioxi of the lixxxj} prcvcxited, tuhilc xteilher ixivcrston xior eversion of the foot can possibly take place. Whexi the nu(!k of the thlgh-lxoxie is fractured, there are ttvo ixi- dications to Ixe fulfilled, naxnely, to prevexit the upper cxid of the fexnur froxxi droppixig f/vxn its xiatural lixie, axid to keep the frachircd surfaces in perfect coxitact. The first is doxie by px-opcxiyplacixxg a sxxiall pad under the tx-ochanter majtr, behcecxi it axid the xnattress; axid the secoxid by a padded splixit, q, r, placed aloxxg the oxUerside of the thigh, axid secux'ed to the pelvis and loxccr pax't of the thigh by two simple bands, t, s, ichich should be tied round the pelvis, so as to exexi a sufficient dcgx-ce of pressure to keep the fructux'ed surfaces in coxitact, Jxt fractures o/' the trochanter major above the neck, the lixnb should be kept ixi a positioxi to allow of the great toe beixig ixt a line with the anterior supexior spixioxis pxvce.’is of the ilium. Unless, in these cases, there is fracture alsoMl FRACTURE. of the neck of the hone, it is unnecessari/ to keep up ejtension ; it suffices to apply the middle of a four- tailed handaye over a pad of lint just above the tro- chanter, tico of the tails of which should he carried round the pelvis and drawn rather tiyhtly, to preveid the bandage from slipping off, and the remaining two, also upon a jxid, round the upper part of the thigh, and fastened as close as the case may recpiire. The object of this bandaqe is to counteract the contraction of those muscles w)tich have a tendency to separate the fnwtured surfaces. A splint should also be ap- plied along the outer side of the thigh as in fraeture of the neck; its object is to keep tlte trochanter in a proper line with the shaft of the bone. In fractures betu eeti the trochanters, just below the neck, the same position is necessary as in fractures of the neck of the bone; the trochanter being prevented from dropping by a hard pillow placed beneath it, and the upper and toicer fragments kept in a proper line by means of the side splint lightly applied. In fractures below the trochanter minor, the limbs ought to be placed over the double vwlined plane, fixed at a right angle, and the injured limb extended to its 7iatural leyigth by the elongation of the middle plane. A common splint, well padded, and long enough to reach from the tuberosity of the isclmim to the ham, should be placed under the thigh upon some straps, another upmn the outer side, another upon the inner, and a fourth upon the frord of the thigh. They should keep up apressure, judiciously regulated, upon the limb, by means of straps and buckles I have already objected to the rig’id treat- ment of fractures near to the head of the femur. I must here remark that the great flexion of the knee as above depicted, seems a j needless extension of the rectus femoris. ^ When the femur is broken near its middle, ■ From Dr. Cutler’s Practical Guide to Dressing, &c. the inferior portion may be directed outwards, with or without overlapping ; but a little at- tention readily detects and remedies this. Some abduction of the leg, or even the me- thod of Pott, may be useful in such a case. In cases of oblique fracture of the shaft, we must expect that the displacement will be at one time determined by the line of frac- ture, at another by the muscles, or occasion- ally by both. If the student will observe Figs. 273, 274, and 275, 285 (a and a'), 295, 296, and 297, —which w'ere employed without reference to present considerations, he may understand how common are lateral displacement and overlapping, as sequelae of fracture of the shaft of the femur. Specimens of union with- out these consequences are few; and trans- verse fracture scarcely seems to prevent their occurrence in general, excepting when it hap- pens near the condyles. To bend the knee considerably when the femur is broken near its middle, and when there is any disposition to overlapping, is, of course, to prevent the relaxation of the short and powerful extensors of the knee, w'hich are by far the most influential causes of shortening. The flexion of repose is some criterion, and either straight splints or inclined planes may be made to conform to this condition, at least in part. Sir A. Cooper considers that de- formity is sure to result from fracture just above the condyles, if the limb be not placed in a bent position. He recommends the double inclined plane, and a roller applied round the femur. Fig. 61. Iracture of the internal condyle nearly in a longitudi- nal direction; the fragment is retruded. The union AH2 FRACTURE. rather recent. The new hone, loth before and behind, was abundant to the very nuirgin of the articular cartilage, beyond which the fissure remained unalter- ed. Abduction of the leg might have diminished the retraction of the inner condyle. In an oblique fracture of the external or internal condyle of the femur into the joint, the position of the utmost ease and quiet is desirable for some days. Subsequently the extended position is preferred, that the head of the tibia may maintain the face of the frac- tured condyle in a right line with its fellow. The limb having been previously so placed upon a pillow as to give rest ; and sucn time having been given, that leeches and evapo- rating lotions may be applied for the removal of swelling and inflammation ; Sir A. Cooper directs that a roller be af>plied round the knee, and that a piece of stiff pasteboard dip- ped in warm water be applied under the knee, and confined by another roller : the paste- board is to be about sixteen inches long, and sufficiently wide to extend under the joint, and to each side of it, as far as the edges of the patella; it thus adapts itself to the joint, and retains its form when dry, so as best to confine the bones. He says also, that splints of tin or wood may be used on each side of the joint; but, being apt to create uneasy pressure, he does not seem to recommend them. There is not the least reason to anti- cipate ankylosis, unless inflammatory disor- ganization of the joint first occurs. The preservation of free flexion, and exten- sion of the leg, in a boy, is recorded after a compound fracture of the external condyle ; and even after a portion of it had been ex- tracted. “ My dear Sirh Oct. 20, 1842. “ I have carefully read your paper on frac- tures of the thigh There are, how- ever, one or two points on which, venturing to differ from the generally received opinions, as adverted to in your paper, I offer for your consideration the following remarks. “ The cause of the displacement which the broken ends of a bone undergo, has usually been sought for in the muscles that act upon the upper fragment. Thus, when the tibia is broken two or three inches below its tu- bercle, and the upper portion projects or rides > Some apology may appear necessary for inserting tlie above letter, where a strict regularity of arrange- ment is confessedly a chief object of soliciUule; but 1 shall hope, in this case, to stand excused. Being aware that Mr. Key had been for some time occupied iii a narticular manner, witli certain points in the subject of fractures, I submitted to him (my former master in sui- cery), the proofs of tlic foregoing jiagcs relative to trac- turcs of the tliigh-bono, with some hope tliat he would have had time, so to correct or extend them, as to make them his own, which could not but liavc been to the advantage of tlie reader. 1 have to regret that the proofs were returned to mo with only a i.avouralilc opinion of them, and tlie above letter, which I could neither tliink of omitting nor of using as a note. Mr. Key’s reflections are, in a measure, mdisiicnsablc to the full knowledge of, and ought to be made a part of, the general doctrine of fractures. over the lower, the deformity is attributed t' the influence of the extensors acting througl' the medium of the patella ; and position, b. i relaxing these muscles, is held to be the bes- means of rectifying the crooked limb. If th , thigh be fractured one-third of its length downM'ard, and the end of the upper fragmen is seen projeeting either forwards or outwards - (two most common kinds of displacement) tk ■ flexors or abductors are supposed to be i .i fault; and the position that shall relax th . psoas and iliacus, or the smaller glutaei, i regarded, ccetens paiibus, as the most advanu tageous. “ The reason why so much is attributed t- the muscles that act upon the upper portio: i of bone is, the great displacement which thi sustains, in comparison with the lower; th < latter appearing to undergo little or no change of position, and preserving a nearly straigh:. line. And, as in the case of a broken thigh, the only muscles that can draw the upper pai.r forward are those above named, the displace;- ment is at once attributed to an undue actio i of these flexors. It is not, however, easy t -. understand, why muscles situated far abovM the fracture, and sustaining no injury, shoul < be disposed to act upon the offensive, whih those muscles that act in the opposite direc.- tion, should be wholly passive on the occasioi';i It is still more difficult to comprehend, wh ; the extensor quadriceps, lying upon the femu;.: should be disposed to such inconvenient ao. tion as that of perversely drawing the uppe- portion of a broken tibia forwards ; the site ( the fracture having no apparent connexio; i with the muscles to which the displacement : attributed. If we examine this matter w shall find, that the muscles at a distance froi the fracture, sustaining no irritation, take n part in the displacement; and the sole cause ( the over-riding of one piece over the othe i will be found in the muscles immediately at I joining the site of fracture. “ The violence that accompanies a fractuiv; is usually productive of more or less eflusio of blood; from laceration, either of periosteui or of the muscle attached to the bone ; and th interstitial cellular texture of the muscle b( comes still further distended by serous infil tration, the effect of inflammation. The mu, cular fibre investing the broken ends of th bone, thus distended and swollen, can u: longer be drawn into a straight line, and for: time remains shortened ; thus offering an ev dent obstruction to the rc-adjustment of tl fractured bone. “ The muscle, thus shortened by mechanic, distension, and irritated to contract, by tl injury it has sustained, acts upon the lowi portion of bone, as being the more moveable but tlie upper jiart of the shaft is soon force out of a straight lino, by the lower uortio obeying the contraction of the muscle; ai it takes a backward or forward, an imvard outward direction, according to the line of tl' fracture. The upper portion, being thus eh placed, is regarded as that on which tl<143 FRACTURE. muscles arc directly acting; to this portion the surgeon directs his attention, and confines his attempts at reduction ; while the lower, which is really in fault, retaining its straight line, is regarded as the cause of the limb being shortened, but not as the protruder of the upper fragment. This i)rocess of displace- ment of the upper by the lower fragment, in simple or compound (opeii) fracture, if dis- placement exist, may be demonstrated on the dead body, or on the amputated limb. “ If such be, as I believe it is, the cause of displacement of the upper segment of a broken femur, humerus, or tibia; it clearly follows, that the direction which the displaced bone takes must be wholly dependent upon the line of fracture, and independent of the action of distant flexors, abductors, &c. Thus, viewing the femur anteriorly, if the fracture is seen traversing the bone downwards, from the in- ner to the outer aspect, the upper portion will be thrust outwards, as the line of fracture renders it impossible for it to take any other direction. Or if, on the contrary, the bone be broken in the opposite direction, the upper fragment will seem to be in a state of adduc- tion, that is, it will be thrust inwards; and the same correspondence will be found to obtain between other lines of fracture, and the seve- ral other directions given to the upper part of the bone. “ Hence the treatment of fractures should be considered mainly with reference to the lower portion of bone; which, pressing upwards, forces the upper part out of the straight line; and this can easily be remedied by extension. If this pressure be removed by extending the limb, and drawing down the lower portion, the upper will fall, or be drawn into its place, as the obstacle to its re-adjustment becomes removed by absorption of the effused fluids. It is not intended to exclude the advantage which ])osition affords; this must ever be attended to, by seeking for such a position as will relax the muscles of the limb, and give as much case to the patient as is consistent with the security of the broken bone. “ In the instance of a fractured humerus, the weight of the limb is usually sutticient to pre- serve the bone in a straight line; and in such cases, the custom (a sound one in practice) pre- vails, of allowing the patients to walk about; in order that the limb may have the advan- tage of gravitation, which in the recumbent position would be lost. “ The tibia, when broken,rcquircs a different application of force to preserve the ends of the broken bone in due apposition. Manual extension may enable the surgeon to rej)lace them soon after the accident; and a well- chosen position may be all that is necessary to retain them. But in cases of oblique fracture with great displacement, continued extension is not unfrc(|ucntly found requisite, both to effect a reduction of the broken ends of the bone, and to retain them in apposition. The simple contrivance of a weight and pul- ley effects this desirable end in the most effi- cient manner, and with the least suffering to the ])atient; who rarely complains of force employed in this way. It acts gradually but continuously ; and w'earying the muscles, im- perceptibly draws the lower portion of bone into its proper fine, and there retains it; w'hile a modification of the starch apparatus, leads to a speedy union of the broken surfaces. “ In fractures of the femur, the same principle of gradual extension is necessary, in order to effect a good fine of union, and prevent short- ening of the limb. The best mode of accom- plishing this, I have found to be by means of a double-inclined plane, the leg-piece of which can be raised or depressed, independently of the thigh-piece ; thus enabling the surgeon to extend the lower portion of the femur at plea- sure. From the third to the tenth day, ab- sorption of the effused fluids proceeds with more or less rapidity; and the degree of ex- tension employed can w'ith exactness be pro- portioned to the progress of absorjjtion, and to the capability of the surrounding muscular and other tissues to bear elongation. This principle I have for some time used in my treatment of fractured thighs at Guy’s Hos- pital. “ The aid which this principle of extension affords to the efficacy of the starch bandage, and the great advantages of M. Suetin’s mode of applying that valuable form of apparatus, in the treatment of fractures generally, are matters of great interest and usefulness ; but the due consideration of these and other points, as, for example, the proper time and most conve- nient method of applying this bandage, would compel me to enlarge my communication be- yond the usual limits of a letter, to which I originally intended to confine myself. I shall therefore subscribe myself, m^’’ dear sir, “ Your faithful friend, “ C. Aston Key.” ERACTURES OF THE PATELLA. The patella may be fractured either by a blow, or fall upon the part, or by the action of the extensor muscles. Ihe ligament of the patella is occasionally ruptured by the force of the extensor mus- cles, and sometimes the broad tendon of the extensors gives way, but less frequently than the ligament. The^ fractures produced by the violent ac- tion of the extensors of the leg are always inorc or less transverse. Longitudinal or ver- tical fractures arc only produced by ])eculiar blows upon the bone; but transverse frac- tures arc b}' far the inost common accidents. That muscular contraction alone will occa- sion the fracture, is made evident by the oc- currence of cases, in which the patients suc- ceed in preventing themselves from falling or striking the knee ; and the full is also some- times, very evidently, subsequent to, and the immediate effect of, the fracture. The centre of gravity of the body being at the time, from some cause or another, inclined backwards,FRACTURE. 114 as in descending stairs, the anterior muscles contract, in order to restore the equilibrium, and the extensors, acting on the patella, break it directly across It appears also, that in a certain position, the extensor muscles of the leg act with ex- treme force on a part, only, of the patella, and that thus very little more than the ordinary action of the extensors may be sufficient to effect a transverse fracture. The knee being slightly flexed, (half way between extension and a right angle,) the patella rests only by a part of its surface, on the condyles, and the apex projecting, unsustained, may be bent down, as it were, by the strain of the liga- mentum patellm. By this flexure of the knee, the chief stress of pressure falls on parts only of the articu- lar faces of the patella, and the strain of ex- tension operates peculiarly across the middle of its anterior surface ; that is, the ligamentum patellae on the one side, and the extensor muscles on the other, instead of drawing on the patella simply in the direction of its long axis, have a tendency to bend each end of the bone backwards ; and (as a stick is broken across the knee), the anterior surface of the bone, though strengthened by a very strong expansion of the tendons, yields transversely, and the complete division of the bone imme- diately follows. It does not appear that a crushing of the under surface, which might be expected, ever takes place in these cases. It is usually said, that when one patella is broken, there is reason to anticipate a similar accident in the fellow'-bone; and experience, in a measure, proves this. The fact is imputed to the lameness resulting from the first acci- dent, and this is not to be disregarded ; but I have been led to suppose that the persons in whom both patellae become broken, (and especially if in consequence of muscular ac- tion,) must have a peculiar conformation of ])arts which facilitates the occurrences as I have above described. Sir A. Cooper relates the case of a young woman in whom both pa- tellrn were broken transversely. Sir A. Cooper also describes the transverse fracture of a pa- tella occurring from simple muscular action, in a lady, which is not cxtrcmcl}' rare. Such facts are rather opposed to the opinion that common muscular force, unaided, causes the fractures in question. Still, violent spasmo- dic action of the extensors, while the limb is perfectly straight, may possibly produce a transverse fracture of the patella; and the muscles may again divide the ligamentous union. It is possible, that a second accident may lead to a transverse division of one of the fragments already united by ligament. I have seen the dissection of an old injury, in which ‘ Hotli patella; arc reported to liaye keen broken by tlie violent spiisinH of the ninscles, in tbc eonstrained attitude required during the operation of lithotomy, at the Hotel Dieii : and a soldier has been known to fracture bis |)atclla in an endeavour to kick bis Serjeant. there were three transverse portions of bone with two intervening ligaments, broad am strong, but near an inch in length. And have seen another, in which there were foil similar fragments united very much in th same way. We often hear or read of the tw( patellae having been broken transversely in tin I same person ; but I never met with but thi \ one instance (in a male, aet. 47), whicl I afforded the figs. 311. All the specimens jus now alluded to are in Guy’s Museum. The separation that takes place belweei the tw'o fragments in transverse fractures o the patella is considerable, and very jiercep tible to the fingers. In the extended positioi ! of the leg, this separation is less than whei I the leg is flexed; the extensors connectei I with the upper portion, no longer resisted In i the ligamentum patellte, being then the soli ! cause of separation : but in flexion of the leg * the ligamentum patellae and the lower frag ' ment attached to it, accompany the motion: ' of the leg, and thus add to the distance be ' tween the fractured surfaces, already occa I sioned by the muscles. j The width of the separation accompanying j such fractures, varies according as the tendi nous expansions of the muscles on either sidt of the patella, are more or less lacerated. Ir the more simple cases of fractured patella, t portion of aponeurosis may escape laceration and limit the division of the fragments tc about half an inch from one another ; and thi: is considered to assist materially towards tlu cure. Sir A. Cooper states that the upper portior may be drawn five inches upwards, when the tendinous covering must of course be pro- portionately lacerated. The instance to whicl he refers is, probably, that of a specimen in tlu museum of St. Thomas’ Hospital. The part; seem to have been long repaired, if I may s( speak, and a broad fascia extends from oiu fragment to the other, and is full five inches in length. It appears, that the violent actioi of the extensors, or a fall subsequent to^ thi fracture, or the inconsiderate bending of tlu knee, may increase the rupture of the tendi nous e.xpansion, and the sejiaration of the frag ments. Subsequently, tlie yielding of tlu new ligament augments the separation. Diagnosis.—A transverse motion, commu nicated to either fragment, excites jiain with out producing crejiitus, as the divided sur faces cannot touch each other. Ihe uppe fragment is the more moveable in all dircc tions. When the tumefaction attendant oi the accident is considerable, thc^ more oiih nary symptoms may be proportionably d^ guised ; but the jialicnt always finds it ditn cult to stand ; and cannot walk, h'p'ij insertion of the extensors of the tibia bomj ^ lost, except in a few cases, where the divisioi ^ of the lateral fascia is partial, and the viehlmi ^ of the upper fragment is consequoutly niuci ^ restrained. Tlie nature of the violence, ani . the sudden lo.ss of jiower of the extcnsois' the slight bending forwards of tlie knee, am iFRACTURE. 145 the tumefaction of the joint, which quickly follows from extravasation of blood, and se- cretion of synovia, arc diagnostic of the seat of injury; time only will be requisite to deter- mine whether the tendon, the bone, or the ligament be divided. In cases of longitudinal fracture, the diagnosis must depend on the tact of the finger; since, except from the effects of pain, there is no impediment to motion. The want of bony union, so often observable in transverse fractures of the patella, is prin- cipally owing to want of due contact of the fragments during the process of reparation. A second cause of non-union is found in the circumstance of the articular surface being devoid of active periosteum*; and a third cause which I vvould refer to, is the cancella- ted nature of the bone, or rather the thinness of its shell, and consequent inactivity of its i periosteum. Sir Charles Bell justly considers, i that the sudden division of the bone by the f muscles, compared with the contusion and effu- Ision which direct violence create, is little conducive to, or rather obstructive of, ossific inflammation at the precise points where it might be available. He regards bony union ! 1 as most likely to follow a simjtliB blow. ' I do not think the supposltiftti, that the pa- tella is of itself indisposed'to fresh ossifica- ! tions, is at all well founded. When its carti- ' lage has been removed by ulceration, it very readily becomes ankylosed with the femur; when its anterior face is pressed upon by tu- mors, it speedily becomes the seat of exos- tosis ; and after fracture, the broken surfaces generally become well covered in by bony shell. In the museum of Hunter is the patella of 1 a large animal, with a considerable exostosis on its anterior and inferior part; and one, of a man, covered with spicular exostoses, from p»eriostitis. There is a similar specimen in , Guy’s museum. There is an interesting spe- icimen of reparation of the patella in the mu- seum of King’s College. The bone is com- 1 minuted, with but little displacement of the 1 fragments and the fissures are partially filled (with little masses of new spongy ossification, rl may also revert to the case related at page 2(il of this volume; but the bony reunion cljf longitudinal fractures, and occasionally of ■4;ransverse fractures, sufficiently establish the , act, that there is no especial defect of ossific f!i uHammation. It will ultimately appear why f he callus is scanty or partial. After longitudinal fractures of the patella, •oony union most frequently takes i)lace ; but vhen, as occasionally happens, a small [)arr, is separated laterally from the rest of the muscle, ji ligamentous union occurs. Sir A. Cooper I elates, that in a case of transverse fracture, ju which the lower fragment was also split ongitndinally, the transverse division was re- ' laired by ligament, and the latter by bone. I ' I?,.,“r 7'"^ fmicoid tumour, (dcRiril ago 201 of lIuH volume) in tlio unlcllii, the fun: " f new hone houciUli tl.e rurlilnge was not t •'iTested. Notwithstanding the prevalent idea of the rarity of osseous union of a fractured patella, there are still occasional expressions con- cerning the inconveniences of superabundant callus projecting into the joint, especially if the parts of the fractured bone be kept toge- ther. We have shown, when speaking of callus, that the cartilage, precluding as it does the existence of periosteum, renders this fear imaginarj^; and a case has never been ad- duced to render it more reasonable, or to make the event seem possible. (See p. 320.) The disadvantages of an interspace between the two connected fragments,—such as the difficulty of w'alking over unequal ground, or up stdep ascents, seem generally proportion- ate to the length of the ligamentous substance found between them, to the loss of the pulley or leverage, and to the consequent imperfect adaptation of the extensors. This again is likely to be great in proportion as the subject of the i'jury may have passed the period of development. The principal indications in the treatment of transverse fractures are to relax the ex- tensor muscles, and to maintain the fractured surfaces as closely as possible together. These chiefly depend on the judicious position of the limb, aided by some mechanical assistance. According to the generality of wTiters, exten- sion of the leg, flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis, and a well adjusted compression of the extensors of the knee, by a roller, seem best to fulfil the first indication. The com- monly received notion, that a careful applica- tion of rollers subdues the action of muscles should not be disregarded, although it w'ould certainly seem to bo a very secondary, or even a doubtful resource. The object of the flexion of the hip is to relax the rectus femoris muscle. It is also considered essential that the body should be so raised, that the trunk may form nearly a right angle with the thigh, by which means tho rectus may become completely relaxed. A right position of limb very much favours approximation of the fragments, but the second indication, that of maintaining them in tho closest possible apposition, is only to bo effected by pressing the upper portion of the bone towards the lower, and so securing it, by tho continued pressure of a bandage or other a]>- paratus. Caro should of course bo taken not to |)iuch or confine the skin botvvoon tho por- tions of bone in fixing such apjiaratus. There are no objections to tho softest bed ; and, provided tho hij) be kept well flexed, the change of posture which may be obtaiueil by alternately raising tho leg and tho shoulders still more, will alford very welcome relief. It will require very little contrivance to adapt an inclined plane to the back, and another to the extended limb, which shall move toge- ther as one piece for this jmrpose. Tho whole leg is to rest on a straight excavated and well-jiaddod spliid, and tho heel is to bo raised very high. Before, however, ajiplying any bandage toFRACTURE. 14G the knee, Sir A. Cooper kept it wet for a day or two, or until the swelling had subsided, by linen wet with a lotion of liquor plumbi acet. dil. ^v, and sp. vini ; and leeches were ap- plied if the fulness or ecchymosis increased. The too early application of the bandage. Sir A. Cooper has seen give rise to the great- est suffering, and to swelling that threatened gangrene. I think, however, it will be at onee appa- rent, that if local antiphlogistic means are not necessary to prevent inflammation of the sy- novial membrane, they are actually calculated to interrupt the reparation. With respeet to union by bone, the anterior face of the patella is alone endowed with periosteum capable of forming callus with activity ^; and the only stimulus to inflammation (in the absence of contact and attrition), is the primary injury, so that the application of cold must, at once and for ever, subdue the energy of reparation. The indiscriminate use of such means may even retard or deteriorate the proeess of liga- mentous union. No consideration, however, is to stand before the necessary treatment of artieular inflammation ; venesection, purga- tives, and antimonials are rather to be used too soon than too late, as well as local anti- phlogistics. The apparatus employed by Sir A. Cooper in the place of the roller, consisted of a lea- ther strap buckled round the thigh above the upper fragment of the bone; and from this, an- other longer strap passed along the side of the knee, round the foot and along the opposite side of the leg and knee, to the eircular strap again, to which the end of it was fixed and tightened. B3' the addition of tapes it might be further secured along the foot and leg. The common plan of bringing the upper piece of the bone towards the lower, is by means of a circular bandage placed both above and below the fractured patella, and drawn toge- ther by tapes. It is necessary here to re- member, that the kind of force thus employed to appi’oximate the fragments does not act upon them so directly and exclusively as could be desired ; the bandages depress the upper edge and the inferior point of the patella, chiefly by acting on the dense fibres inserted into these parts. The effect of this is (see p. 320 of this vol.), that the fractured surfaces incline forwards instead of directly facing each other. Next, with regard to the inferior fragment, it must be evident that but very little force is necessary or available in drawing it towards the superior fragment; and it is apparent that ’ Mr. Ocorcc Gulliver (Edinb. Mod. and Surg. .Tournal, vol. xlvii.) lias related a scries of experiments on transverse fractures of the patella. Carefully di- viding the bone, without interfering with the anterior periosteum and fibrous tissue, was followed by com- plete ossific union in many instances. The c.ase of an old dog was tlie only one in which there was a liga- mentous union; the c.xamination was made twenty- seven days after the division of the bone. I have already expressed similar opinions, and refeircd to a rase, with some reflections by myself, in No. xiii. of Guy's Hospital Reports. a circular bandage acting on the front of tl ligamentum patellae, is calctilated to press into the knee-joint, and thus even drag th apex of the patella downwards. Lastly, when our minds turn to the meat by which the upper fragment is to be draw down and confined, it is, I think, difficu to avoid the conclusion, that every thin in the shape of a close-fitting circular stra must be comparatively inefficient and ol structive. An instrument acting only agains the upper edge of the patella would seei the most efficient; and by preferring such, good deal of unnecessary pressure and cor gestion would be avoided. For similar ree sons, I think the solid splint which keeps th limb straight, should be rather less widely am closely adapted about the knee than about th thigh and leg. The undue disturbance, am unhealthy action of a circular bandage wi! hardly be caused by simple pressure agains the upper edge of the patella, to which a smal pad, long and narrow and firm, maybe closel; adapted. This pad might form part of a kini of tourniquet, and should act somewhat ob liquely, the splint being the only basis 0 resistance. The accuracy and distinctnes with which the use of such an application ma; be made without giving pain, or causing con gestion, seem to me very desirable. Mr. Lonsdale has contrived an apparatu; which, though somewhat too complicated, ha: the advantage of confining its pressure to the patella. The application of powerful restrain’ to the inferior fragment and ligamentum pa- tellae seems a singular error. It is not possible to define the degree 0 force to be applied ; probably, however, no- thing is to be expected but from gentleness, anc it is certainly desirable to employ as little vio- lence as possible. Very little force will gene- rally suffice, provided the muscles are care- fully set at rest by attention to the patient’s posture ; and kept uncxerted, by studied absti- nence from general efforts, all which neces- sarily excite every limb. The patient’s exer- tions in bed, even with the most precise application of straps, cannot fail to extend tc the injured part. When tbe knee remains inflamed and swelled^, it is certain that any direct pressure upon it would be hurtful ; but it may be well to observe, that the apprehensions of danger from the too hasty application of the bandage, need not deter us from procuring that reduc- tion of the fragments, which follows an imme- diate resort to the right posture. The gradual pressure of the upper portion of the bone towards the lower is recommended also with- out the least delay ; in short, all the coapta- tion that does not excite mischief. Much ol the lameness that has followed these accidents is justly ascribed to the neglect of mere co- aptation, and to the too hasty employment of ’ Swelling alone may l)c r.atlier a reason for em- ploying pressure, as in eertain conditions it is not so mueh an element of inflammation ns it is a result am termination of it. ^flexion, with a view to the preservation of the motions of the joint. Extension essential to the Formation of new Lhament.—The remarks made on the forma- tiem of ligament in false joints (p. 307, 319, &c. of this volume), will be found very im- portant with reference to the proper treat- ment of the cases before us. It is a fact which seems to be totally neglected, that the forma- tion of new ligament or tendon depends essen- tially on the agency of the force of extension, and that the new deposit is of a very different character, before, and after the influence of extension has had time to act upon it. I have no doubt that defective ligamentous union of the broken patella is often attri- butable to the removal of tension, together with the application of cold. With a trans- verse fractui’e of this bone, and the com- plete division of the extensors acting on it, a little care might induce bony union ; but in the absence of this, there would be nothing but a scanty quantity of cellular membrane, which tension might convert into massive ligament; that is to say, a graduated exten- sion, not a sudden overwhelming extension. I much regret that I have not found a ' better occasion to explain and illustrate this I view. The reader will discover several scat- I tered comments on the subject throughout [ the article “ Fracture and it vvill be again I touched upon under the head “Luxations.” The reproduction of vessels, cellular tissue, and bone, seems to be nearly all that our bodies are capable of in the way of fresh formations. The minute circumstances of the reunion of nerves, even when simply divided, still require elucidation before they can be freely admitted, 1 In the false joint represented at fig. 308, ij and probably in that at fig. 307, the wide inter- space of the severed bones was filled up only 3 by cellular membrane ; but in fig. 306, con- tinual motion and extension have converted the common bond of union into a ligament. We see the effects of the want of the excite- ment by motion and common tensions, in the scanty membranous repair which follows tre- phining. In a recent experiment relative to the reunion of bone, the result of which Mr. Bransby B. Cooper was kind enough to show me, a small portion of bone having been removed, as in fig. 308, I found eaeh cut end of the radius scaled by bone, as in an amputated stump ; but the two ends tied together by a solid ligament, as in a false I joint. The reason of this is, that just so much t bone was removed as would prevent bony ' reunion, and leave the soft union subject to cx- : tensions with all the movements of the limb. Besides extension and motion, compression, 'within a certain limit, may sometimes tend to the induration of new ligament; or perhaps icompression with motion includes extension. Fig. .30.5, and the ligamentous union of some i partially impactcfl fractures, particularly a ' lomcwhat common case resembling fig. a, are I llustrations of this. Wo have elsewhere referred to the general fact, that the nutrition of parts is commensu- rate with the tensions they have to resist from day to day; and it may be seen that it is only a modification of this principle by which adventitious cellular membrane is (so to speak) successively stretched, inflamed, and thick- ened : yet the violence of the inflammation may be out of proportion ; and thus, w'hile a natural tendon is developed in due proportion to its muscle and bone ; there are circum- stances which may render either or both of these parts too weak or too strong, so as to operate disproportionately. The formation of the adventitious capsule of certain pseudarthroses is only another in- stance of the effect of motion and tensions, converting common tissue into ligamentous matter. The new joints which follow luxa- tions, and the thickened ligamentous coverings of burste ^ and bunyons, depend on the like causes; and also a curious result, of adhesions which I have seen in bursae, in the form of strong ligamentous cords traversing the ca- vities. All the ligamentous unions which follow rupture of bones, ligaments, tendons, or mus- cles, are alike instances of the same. With- out tension, they not only do not form, but the cellular reparation which is first formed, wastes away. The course of the adhesions of serou.s membranes is very analogous to the cases in question. Very soft and seemingly natural cellular substance is the common formation ; but whenever a sufficient extending force, or exciting influence, and due nutrition can act upon them, it would seem that a denser tissue is the result. Numerous long fibres, like whip cords, may be met with between the liver and diaphragm ; and this leads me to remark, that whereas various kinds of excite- ment may induce thickening of an original, or of a new product, it is always extension which gives the character of ligament. It is an entire misunderstanding of the case, to expect complete ligamentous union, as of the patella, without the agency of a verv con- siderable degree of tension ; and where the treatment of a case has been most rigid, and the reparation most tardy, we may perceive the advantage arising out of the unavoidable relaxation of the apparatus, by w'hich, without any very material extension, a decided degree of muscular tension is suflered to disturb the artificial surgery of the case, and set in opera- tion a more perfect contrivance. When Mr. Hunter suflered a rupture of his tendo Achillis, and went about with a high- heeled shoe, relying on the absolute inertness of the gastrocncmii muscles, he was, I con- ceive, resolved to bo content with an imper- fect union ; though doubtless guided by some degree of caution, which most men would of ' Tlic gaiiirlion p.atcllai licroinca entirely solid by repetitions of pressure and inllaininntion, of wliieli w'o have two largo examples in the museum of Guv’s bospitnl.148 FRACTURE. course be devoid of. His method set the muscles in action too earlj', and deprived him of the advantage of completely hexing the knee; and also probably of the first contrac- tion which the living infiammatory formation had to undergo, and to which the most re- laxed (or elongated) and quiescent state of muscle is most favourable. Although the case cannot be said to have been one of much consequence, j'ct his plan tended to produce a longer medium of union than might have been obtained. It may be thought that experiments are still requisite to establish the doctrine here maintained ; and although I conceive the various facts which might be adduced are sufficiently corroborative of the principle, I can readily suppose that new and varied illus- tration of it cannot fail to make it more clear and efficient in practical application. To divide one tendinous head of a biceps, and the tendon of the same muscle near its inser- tion, in the same animals, thus leaving the process of repair, in the last instance, subject to muscular tension, and in the first, free from such influence, for about eight or sixteen days, would be an interesting test of the difference in the two cases : but, for my own part, I should examine the result of the experiment much less to seek a proof of my opinion, than to discover additional facts connected with it. Upon the foregoing principles, 1 conceive the future object of practice must be decidedly different to that of our former rules. It is doubtless a fortunate circumstance that in many cases, as in that of a fractured patella, surgeons have not been more completely able to exclude the action of the extensors ; but I do not doubt that they have done enough to render many a ligamentous union feeble, and altogether unable to resist the sudden and ungraduated action of the extensors. It seems to me not unworthy of record, that in the case of fracture of the patella. Sir W. Blizard maintained that bandages to con- fine the fragments were worse than useless ; and he constantly limited his treatment to the use of antiphlogistics, and the maintenance of the straight position of the limb. The first object should be to obtain as close an union of the bone, or tendon as circum- stances will allow of. Secondly, within about three weeks (supposing the hope of ossific union to be given up) the part should be left under the influence ofits muscles, in the slight- est degree ; and by slow degrees, while the new formation has time, and every other pos- sible facility given it, to be duly nourished, the tension which excites its development is to be progressively increased, rhirdly, it should be but very gradually, increasing from day to day, that the active motions of the part are brought into operation. After the patient, if an adult, had been five weeks confined. Sir A. Cooper allowed a little passive motion to be commenced, and daily^ increased in a gentle manner until flexion of the knee was quite restored : when the pa- tient^ was advanced in years, an addition week’s extension was persevered in. The former remarks on uniting ligamei should., I think, modify the last rules : for und favourable circumstances of coaptation ai constitution, five weeks may be too long period to leave the parts deprived of all°e tension. There is, however, less harm to 1 done by delay, than by precipitancy. Within: month, I conceive, the fragments may be le- unconstrained ; in four or five days more, tl splint, with the foot, may be lowered by dai .. degrees, and then removed ; for a day or tw' the limb may be moved about in the be . without having recourse to flexion ; and it w be well that all considerable flexion of tl i knee be as long delayed as possible. It is said, with the method of treatmen hitherto adopted, that when flexion of tl i knee is too early had recourse to, the unitir substance is apt to yield and become length ened. Under the fear of such an occurrence Boyer allowed two months to expire befor he suffered flexion to be employed. If the ligLi mentous uniting substance should prove Ion;. and the power of the e.xtensor muscles ovc- the leg very tardily regained, .Tohn Hunter an others direct, that the patient may sit for while daily on a table, with the knee bent ov( ■ its edge, and thus exercise and raise the limb, having an increased weight (as of lead), a.;i tached to the foot, as the capability of exter sion increases. I should be averse to th i practice if it might be avoided ; and I ar. further of opinion that it is far better to st, cure a straight splint gently behind the kne < and let the patient go about, thus to exercis- the muscles, with a straight leg for weeks. Finally, however, it may be by extrem flexion only that the extensors can be excite or enabled to act. Mr. Hunter thus ej presses himself:— “ I called with a friend to pa.ss a day c * two with a family in the country. The lad of the house had had her knee fractured, an had been treated according to the maxims tli surgeon had learned while attending the Loi don hospitals ; which, at that time, were t leave the whole unconfined, and take no mes! sures to bring the portions of bone togethe:' She recovered from the accident, but wf totally unable to use the limb, and had to b moved about in a chair. Her leg was mad to swing backwards and forwards as she st ■ on a high table or chair; but still she had n power of contracting the rectus muscle, an ■ as soon as the force that gave the motio ceased, the motion ceased with it. It was nc until several years after the accident that saw her ; and having spent a whole night i i considering the probable cause of her loss c power, it appeared to me that the spaee be tween the two attachments of the rectus bcin much shortened, while the muscle continue of the same length, the utmost degree t its contraction would scarcely be able t straigliten itself, much less move the jiatell and leg also. I advised her to sit as beforeFRACTURE. Hi) but instead of having her leg moved, to move it herself. This she could not in the least effect at first. I considered, however, that the power of contraction which the muscles possess beyond that necessary for the mere purpose of extending and flexing the limb, as mentioned above, is probably obtained by the mind’s influence on the muscle ; and that, in this case, if the influence of the mind was frequently exerted on the muscle, it would give this power of contraction *, in which it would probably be aided by the interstitial absorption taking place, and actually shorten- ing the muscle, and suiting its length to the oflfice it was to perform. I therefore advised her ladyship to repeat her exercise as often as she could every day for a month, assuring her, that if at the end of the month she had obtained the least power of motion, I had not a doubt that she would again be able to walk, by a regular exercise of the muscle. The event proved as fortunate as I could w'ish, the lady at the end of three or four months being able to walk, although she had not walked for years Sir A. Cooper relates the following case :— “ A young woman was brought into my house in her father’s arms, and he said, ‘ I am obliged to carry her, for she has lost the use of her legs, having broken both her knee-pans eight months ago, and she has never been able to use her limbs since.’ Passive motion was directed, and she was ordered to try to extend her legs after they had been bent by the surgeon. At first she could effect but little ; however, by repeated trials she gra- dually recovered the use of her limbs. Mr. John Hunter, who raised surgery into a science, and who seems to have been the first who attended to the principles on which the practice of surgery ought to be regulated, always dwelt most ably upon this subject in his lectures. Patients, from the pain which passive motion produces, and the slow return of action in the muscles, are indisposed to suffer the one or to make trials of the other ; but without them there can be no recovery.” The practitioner must distinguish, first, the state of the new ligament; secondly, the ac- tual power of the muscle, or its weakness ; and tetl^, what belongs to the freedom or constriction of the joint. After some inflam- mation, and a strictly extended posture of the knee, maintained for several weeks, some force to induce extension may be required ; but I think it is the last thing necessary. Some of the foregoing points may be re- garded as theoretical rather than practical, and rather critical than useful ; but I do not doubt that a due attention to them may both improve and expedite the reparation of the injuries in question, and even increase the number of examples of ossific reunion. That transverse fracture of the patella may have osseous reunion, is evident from unequi- ' See p. 209 of this vol. by\?r, Pafmer."'’ of Surgery, edited A nlerinr view of a patella, with the tendon attached to it above and beloio. The middle transverse band was of new bone, even and close; while the remainder of the surface was like the ordinary aspect of this part of the pateUa. The two dark fissures indicate spots where ossification had been defective. Fig. 63. Posterior view of the patella. The ape.v of the bone is seen below, with the lujamentum patcUce attached 'The articular surface is circumscribed by a broad 'band which 7vas a more, recently-adapted surface of contact than some of the other parts. Within arc seen three L150 FRACTURE. timisverse portions of articular cartilage, of tvhich the middle seemed also a new formation, filing up a line of angular depression, and flattened by contact with the condyles. The transverse hands or portions of surface immediately above a?id below this last, seemed to consist of original articular cartilage tvhich could no longer come in contact with the con- dyles. Fig. 64. Fig. 336 shoivs a vertical section of the same part. There was no appearance of interruption of the cam celli; but the inequalities of the cartilage, and the breaking up of me bony shell beneath it in severed places, as well as the definite characters of repair in the section of the anterior surface, were very distinct. vocal instances which have been published; and from the examination of specimens in various museums. On this point we have the authority of Boyer, Sir Charles Bell, J. Wil- son, (formerly professor of the Royal College of Surgeons,) and of Baron Larrey. There are examples of the fact in the museums of Dr. Hunter at Glasgow, of the London Uni- versity, and of Guy’s Hospital. The last was described by myself in the Guys Hospital reports. Figs. 334, 5, and 6 will sufficiently explain the circumstances of the case here alluded to. . , u The treatment of longitudinal or perpendi- cular fracture of the patella is described to consist, first, in the use of cold lotion, and leeches, if necessary; and, of course, the more contusion, the more care is requisite to pre- vent synovitis : in this case also there is little chance of preventing ossific union by local applications. The second part of the treat- ment consists ill the apiilication of a stiaiglit back-splint, rollers, and a knee-cap. these are chiefly precautionary iiicasiires. Mraps of plaster and a roller about the knee, and slight but varying degrees of flexion will pro- bably be most easy to the patient, if he can be trusted. Within three weeks he may dis- pense with these restraints, and proceed ten- tatively to move about. Open or compound fracture of the patella almost necessarily opens the knee joint, the largest synovial cavity of the body; and the anticipation of disorganization often leads the surgeon to adopt immediate amputation in these injuries. On the whole, however, it may be said, that modern views of constitu- tion and general treatment, are tending stead- ily towards the diminution of these opera- tions, and the preservation of limbs which formerly would have been removed. An incised wound of the integuments, or one of small extent and but little contused, with a simple division of the patella, may admit of the attempt to save the limb ; but, most of all, a youthful and healthful constitution, and good habits, are the sanctions for delaying amputa- tion. Mr. S. Cooper says : “ I saw a case in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, in the year 1820, un- der Mr. Vincent, where the patella was broken to pieces, and the opening so extensive, that the fingers readily passed into the joint; yet, after a tedious confinement, the formation of abscesses, and the separation of several frag- ments of bone, the patient recovered with a stiff joint. I saw another case of bad com- pound fracture of the patella in St. Bartholo- mew’s hospital, where it had been about a month. No fragments of bone had then been removed, but a good deal of matter issued daily from the wound, and the patient was in considerable danger of losing his limb, or even his life.” With the treatment proper for fractured patella must be combined the practices en- joined in the articles relating to arthritis, &c. In cases of more threatening character, ampu- tation must not be delayed. The least equi- vocal of these are probably gun-shot wounds. Sir C. Bell, (Operative Surgery,) records a case, in which, after a transverse fracture, the ligamentous union became ultimately con- nected, by a kind of adhesion, with the super- jacent integument; and a repetition of the disunion being produced, the laceration ot the new ligament caused that of the skin, and amputation was judged necessary. ^ , “ Case.—A man was admitted into Guy s Hospital in the year 1796, under Mr. W.. Cooper, surgeon of that hospital, with a com- pound fracture of this bone ; violent inflam- mation followed ; suppuration ensued, with. the highest degree of constitutional UTitation;. and as no opportunity was given for ampu- tation, from the great swelling of the thigh, this man died. The bone is m the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, disunited as at the first moment of the accident. , « A man was admitted into the mu- seum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Birch, with a fracture of the patella, and ^151 FRACTURE. a small wound extending into the joint. The knee was fomented and poulticed ; inflamma- tion and suppuration followed ; and this man in a few days died with the highest symptoms of constitutional irritation. “ Case.—Mr. Hawker, surgeon, called me to visit a man who had just arrived in London, who, being at work in a warehouse up one pair of stairs, on hearing the signal for dinner, seeing the doors of the warehouse open, walked quickly out, and fell into the street. By this fall he had a eompound fracture of the pa- tella. The limb was attempted to be saved. The joint suppurated ; the discharge became excessively great, and the symptoms of irrita- tion ran so high, that I thought he would not recover; but he became somewhat better, and I advised him to go into the country. I after- wards heard that he gradually recovered with an ankylosed joint. “ Case.—Mr. R. aged thirty-nine years, was thrown from his gig, on June 18th, 1819, against a cart-wheel. His knee came violently in contact with the wheel, which fractured his patella and opened the joint. Mr. Dixon, of Newington Butts, was sent for, and he found that the knee had bled freely from a wound on its outer side, from which the synovia freely escaped, and which readily admitted his finger to the shattered patella. The acci- dent happened at ten o’elock in the morning : I was sent for by Mr. Dixon, and when I met him at four o’clock, I found a w'ound on the fore part of the knee, through which I readily passed ray finger into the joint. The patella was not broken transversely, but, as I have expressed it, shattered, that is, broken into several pieces ; and a small piece which was separated from the rest I removed. It was agreed between Mr. Dixon and myself that an attempt should be made to save the limb, for the patient was of a spare habit, and, from his great composure, showed that he was not of an irritable constitution. I passed a suture through the integuments, knowing the diffi- culty of keeping the wound closed, on ac- count of the continued escape of synovia, but taking the utmost care tnat the ligament should not be included in the suture. Adhe- sive plaster was also applied over the wound, and rollers lightly put on, which were kept constantly wet with spirits of wine and water. Tlie leg was placed in the extended position, and ho was ordered not to move it in the slightest degree, and to live on fruit. “ Saturday.—He had passed a very good night, and was free from pain or fever. “ The next day he was restless, and was thought delirious; but, on Monday morning, he was relieved by a dose of castor oil, and he afterwards had no bad ^mptoms. As there was no swelling, no inflammation, and scarcely any pain, the suture was not removed until the 30th of June, when the adhesive plaster was renewed. “ He recovered without any untoward acci- dent. Mr. Dixon ordered him from bod in a month, and at the end of five weeks gave the joint slight passive motion. On the 7tli of August, the patient walked across his room ; and he entirely recovered the use of his limb. “Case.—Capt. O. of the 1st Dragoons, in riding very fast at night on the 15th July, 1834, was run against by a cart, and struck his jiatella against the wheel, which produced a compound fracture of his right patella. Capt. O. was very much shaken from the concussion, and thrown with his horse upon the ground. He was seen immediately by Mr. Laurence of Brighton, and afterwards by Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Vance. They directed that the leg should be kept perfectly quiet, applied a piece of lint dipped in blood, and kept it in its situ- ation by adhesive plaster; the foot and leg were placed in an elevated posture. “ A month after the accident the bandages were removed, w'hen it was found that the wound had nearly healed ; and then adhesive plaster was applied as a bandage to keep the divided portion as much as possible together: Capt. O. remained upon his bed for four weeks and two days. For a month after his rising from the bed he went upon crutches, and he now walks with a stick. He has a tolerable motion of the joint, and the fractured portions of bone can be distinctly felt. He says he suffered very little pain, but had an occasional spasm of the muscles. Capt. O. subsequently recovered a perfectly useful limb. “ Case.—Cornelius Michael Kelly, aged forty, a healthy looking man, and of temperate habits, by occupation a labourer, whilst work- ing at a wharf, fell wdth his leg bent under him upon some pig-iron, his whole weight being upon the knee. He was immediately brought to Guy’s Hospital. When admitted, he did not appear at all collapsed, as might have been expected from the severe nature of the injury. There was a laceration over the knee ; the patella was fractured and comminuted, and synovia was escaping. The whole force seemed to have been concentrated upon the patella, as there was a depression in its cen- tre, from which the fractured pieces appeared to diverge. The limb was placed upon a back splint extending from the tuber ischii to the heel, and thirty leeches were immediately applied. Mr. Cooper saw the case about two ho>irs afterwards, and twenty more leeches were ordered, with three grains of Dover’s powder and of hydrargyrum cum creta every four hours, and an aperient. A pad of lint was placed over the wound, and the limb was bandaged above and below the knee. “May 12th. Thirty more leeches were ordered. He complains of great pain in the knee ; his constitution appears to sympathise with the injury, his skin being hot, tongue furred, and pulse somewhat accelerated. The man to be kept quiet, and to have saline mix- ture and low diet. May 13th. Still complains of great pain in the kneq. Thirty more leeches to be put on, and whitewash to be ap- plied above and below the knee. May 14tli. The pain still continues great, though not soFRACTURE. 15^^ severe as yesterday. Twenty leeches to be applied, and the other remedies to be con- tinued. May 15th. The pain has now consi- derably decreased, A poultice M'as ordered to be applied over the knee. May 18th. Still going on well. The man not at all irritable, but keeps the limb perfectly at rest. From this time the case continued to proceed fa- vourably, no bad symptom occurring ; and the patient was discharged perfectly cured on .Tune 27th. “ The following very fortunate case was published by Mr. Ward of Nottingham, in the fifth volume of the Guy’s Hospital Reports. “ ‘ Case.—On the evening of November 2d, 18-38, I was called,’ says Mr. Ward, ‘ to attend Mr. E. M., residing six miles from Hunting- don, who, on his return from shooting, had received a gun-shot wound of the right knee, in attempting to force his dog from its kennel with the butt-end of a loaded gun. “ When I arrived at his residence I found that he had been removed to bed, with the assistance of my friend Mr. Abbott, surgeon, of Cambridge, who fortunately happened to arrive in the village a few minutes after the accident occurred, and whose long experience and well known professional talents rendered his opinion and advice extremely valuable in the treatment of this remarkable case. “ The contents of the gun had struck the patella on the outside of the knee, carrying away the whole of that bone, except a small, solid, triangular portion, which still remained attached to the ligament; there w'as a nearly circular wound of the integuments, completely exposing the joint, and sufficiently large to admit my whole hand into the joint between the tibia and femur ; but the cartilages of those bones appeared uninjured. The pro- priety of immediate amputation was the first subject that suggested itself. Upon mature deliberation, however, we resolved to attempt to save the limb, for the following reasons — first, because the exposed bones, both femur and tibia, with their cartilages, were unin- jured ; secondly, because the soft parts around the wound, not being lacerated or contused, rendered it less probable that extensive slough- ing would take place ; thirdly, because our patient was young, of good constitution, and temperate habits ; and having recently re- covered from a serious wound of the thumb, from the bursting of his gun early in Septem- ber, the judicious dietetic treatment enjoined by the surgeon who attended him on that oc- casion, which had been continued to the pre- sent time, had brought him into the most favourable condition for sustaining the ill elfects likely to arise from so formidable an injury. “ The patient was placed on his back, with the knee slightly flexed ; a large poultice aj)- plicd to the wound, and a full dose of opium given. He passed a quiet night, and iii the morning 1 found him in good spirits, with a quiet and regular jndse, and with merely a slitrht achintr in tlic knee. No unfavourable symptoms, either local or constitutional, oc- curred during the progress of the case, nor was his pulse even in any degree accelerated. An anodyne at bed-time for a few nights, and occasional aperients, were the only medicines required. Poultices were continued until granulations began to arise ; after which (the remaining small portion of patella having been removed,) the surface was dressed with lint dipped in oil, and strips of adhesive plaster were applied in various directions to assist in approximating the edges of the wound. On the 21st of January, 1839, the wound being quite healed, Mr. M. was able to dress him- self and sit up in a chair. In a short time, with the aid of a suitable splint and bandage, he w'ent upon crutches ; and in the middle of March he came to my house, six miles, on horseback. “ He has continued well to the present time, and has long discontinued wearing a splint or any application to the knee. The cicatrix is very firm, and there is considerable motion of the joint ; so that Mr. M. can, not only w'alk very well without a stick, and even run without much inconvenience, but in No- vember last I saw him dancing quadrilles at a ball in this towm.” These cases, as Sir A. Cooper justly adds, seem to show, to how great an extent we may trust to nature’s efforts, when assisted by a sound constitution and healthy temperament; but I do not think with him that they con- firm the common conclusion,—that small punc- tured wounds are more commonly follow'ed by severe constitutional disturbance. An incised wound, large or small, or a laceration, little or great, may heal with the least degree of in- flammation that the lesion admits of; or, on the other hand, the local and general disorder may go on from bad to worse : but, there is nothing in surgery to prove, that inflammation spreads beyond the immediate vicinity of a wound, from any cause connected with the wound itself I do not include poisoned w'ounds, nor do I compare injury of skin with that of fascia or synovial membrane; nor, again, do I lose sight of the differences which the treatment of the various wounds of a joint may give rise to. Mr. Bransby Cooper, in commenting on the cases related above, remarks, that in punc- tured wounds of articulation, “ there is not the same degree of prostration as w'hen an exten- sive w'ound laj's open a large joint, which accident is generally follow'cd by faintness almost approaching to collapse.” Now, this can hardly fail to modify the subsequent symptoms. Slight wounds are less speedily and carefully attended to, and there may be, I conceive, other explanatory circumstances ; but, in my own limited experience—all other circumstances being equal—the effects of^ a wound have been duly in proportion to its extent and severity. It would be easy to col- lect accounts of every variety of punctured wound of the peritoneum, and oven of many abdominal viscera, unattended with mischief; and, again, of general peritonitis, and mattingFRACTURE. of the viscera without injury to the health ; on the other hand, the puncture of a lancet may cause erj’sipelas, suppurative phlebitis, or a peritonitis which is rapidly fatal ; and before the muscles of the body ai’e rigid in death, its fluids are fetid with decomposition. We should seek to anticipate the influence of dia- thesis, clearly and boldly, and, above all, with attention to points which are called “ small.” Many surgeons seem to think that a recent injury, or a w'asting open fracture, precludes the possibility of the sufferers taking cold ; yet, the one is carried off by pneumonia, and the other by phrenitis. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. These, as a set, are among the most com- mon of all fractures, although from the second table, at page 243, it would appear, that the femur is almost as frequently the subject of fracture as the tibia. The same table seems to prove that the tibia and fibula are equally liable to fracture. Mr. Lonsdale, however, whose cases are more numerous, and taken more indiscriminately, supplies the following data:— In 1901 fractures, there were 41 of the tibia, 51 of the fibula, and 197 of the two bones ; or 289 in all. The tibia is the main support of the leg, and is more exposed to direct violence, (the sole cause of fracture in its upper half,) as well as to the irregular action of the super- incumbent weight, at a time when, perhaps, its inferior part is inextricably fixed. Fractures of this bone singly, usually assume rather a transverse direction. They occur in any part of its length ; but, excepting those caused by projectiles, they are found more frequent as the part is low'er. The fragments are but little displaced laterally, and there is very little shortening. There seems to be less displace- ment of fragments as the division is efi'ected nearer to the upper end; and the detection may be thus proportionately difficult. The patient may be able to walk. Pain, sensible inequality in the broken surfaces, and mostly crepitus, indicate these injuries. The fibula remaining entire renders the treatment of these cases easy. If there be displacement, a slight extension, with flexion of the knee, and slight extension of the ankle- joint, with simple means to secure the limb from accidents, will suffice to ensure good consolidation. I venture here to illustrate, a little farther, an opinion which has more than once been hinted at; and which, I conceive, may admit of more extensive application than it has hitherto been permitted to do. If I were the subject of a severe injury of the ankle, I should scarcely be willing to allow of ])ro- tracted or repeated manipidation to explore the precise nature of the accident. Even a sprain could only be aggravated by such prac- tice; the mischief in severer cases would be increased materially; and the repair propor- tionately painful and dilatory. Gentle attempts to restore the form of the joint, if necessary ; a good position, main- tained as mildly as possible; and the most cautious tentative endeavours to discover if the part may be employed, should, I think, in many such cases, comprise the main part of the diagnosis and treatment. Of course a violent and foolish patient is not a propei subject for great lenity. Fracture of the fibula may be produced at any part by a blow, but violent torsion alone of the foot, whether inwards or outw'ards fre- quently causes it to give way near its lower extremity. This particular accident seems to have been very common in the experience of Dupuytren, who has stated its proportion, relative to all other fractures of the leg, to be as one to three. It is evident at a glance, that when the foot is fixed, and the tibia presses inwards or outw'ards, the connexions of the malleolus are strained, the shaft of the fibula next suffers, and this being the weakest part, yields. The precise site of the fracture is partly dependent on the direction of the violence. Fractures of the fibula, within three inches of the lower end, may occur from in- direct violence ; but all above this limit are necessarily the effects of direct injury. Ac- cording to Dupuytren,—of about 200 exam- ples of broken fibula, six-tenths arose by the rolling inw’ards of the foot; three-tenths from its turning outwards ; and one-tenth from di- rect blows. The last cases are probably more common in the more commercial cities. Fracture of the body of the fibula presents no shortening, and scarcely any perceptible inequality. The first indication of it may be effusion ; and crepitus may not be discover- able without unreasonable violence. Some- times the fragments incline towards the tibia. Inferiorly the lesion is more manifest to the touch ; above it is least so. Crepitus may be rendered more evident by turning the toes, or the sole inwards and outwards. It is a little remarkable, if the tibia and fibula be liable to fracture in nearly equal proportions, that the strength of each and their general susceptibilities are so different; but it is to be remembered, that very fre- quently the fibula does not give w’ay until the yielding of the tibia has left the fibula alone, to resist the undue violence. Fractures at the middle of the fibula are very rare, for the reason, that direct force only can produce them ; and because the elasticity of the bone allows it to yield until it is even supported by the body of the tibia. Dupuytren draws an interesting practical parallel, betw'een fractures of the middle of the ulna and similar injuries of the fibula. The cause of each is direct violence. Their respective signs arc slight ; whether displace- ment, loss of power, or crepitus; and the dia- gnosis depends much on the account of the accident, the pain and tumefaction, and the undue mobility of the fragments. Their treat- ment is by rest, avoiding bandages that de- press the broken ends. The same great authority states, that the most common site of fracture of the fibula isFRACTURE. 154. about two inches and a half above the end of the outer malleolus, and that this is usually at- tributable to a sudden inclination of the tibia inwards. When the fracture is lower, he refers it to the descent of the tibia outwards. Fractures of the inner malleolus, or of the tibia adjacent, or rupture of the deltoid liga- ment, he regards as complications of the above injury ; when caused by the foot turn- ing inwards, as consequences; but when caused by its turning outwards, as necessarily preceding. On the whole, it must be pretty evident that the irregularities and complica- tions of fractures of the leg, rather than the simple injuries, are M’hat constitute the diffi- culties of practice. The treatment of simple fractures of this bone is not difficult. Turning the sole of the foot inwards assists to separate the broken end outwards or away from the tibia; but this may be unnecessary or mischievous. A side-splint, with a foot-piece, well padded, and bound to the inner side of the leg, gene- rally avoiding to cause any pressure near the fractured part, will be all that is requisite. The slight contact of the fragment, and the total arrest of motion, retard the consolida- tion of this fracture to the fifth or sixth week, or even later. The less the patient is con- fined, the more rapid and abundant will be the formation of callus. Respecting fracture of the fibula near the ankle-joint. Sir A. Cooper writes as one who has felt what he describes:— “ The surgeon discovers the nature of the accident by rotating the foot with one hand, and by grasping the lower part of the leg with the other ; at each rotation a crepitus is generally felt. There is also frequently an inequality of the bone at the broken part, which assists in pointing out the nature of the injury. “ Cause.—The cause of this injury is a blow upon the inner side of the foot, or some vio- lence which forces it outwards against the lower extremity of the fibula; and I have known it broken by distortion of the foot inwards. A fall laterally, whilst the foot is confined in a deep cleft, also produces this accident. I broke my right fibula bjr falling on my right side whilst my right toot was confined between tw'o pieces of ice, and I could with difficulty support myself to a neighbouring house by bearing upon the in- ner side of my foot. I went home in a car- riage, and every jolt of it gave mo pain at the fractured part as I suspended my leg upon my hand. I knew that the bone was broken by the severe snap which I felt in the part at the moment of the accident. “ Treatment. — The treatment which this injury requires is, to apply a many-tailed bandage upon the limb, and to keej) it wet with a lotion of spirit of wine and water ; to a])ply a splint, witli a foot-piece on each side, j)addcd with cushions in such a manner as to preserve the great toe in a lino with the patella, (an invariable rule on these occa- sions,) and to place the leg upon its side in the semiflexed position, so as to relax the muscles, and render the patient’s position as easy as possible. “ A want of attention to the treatment of this accident leads to permanent lameness. Dr. Blair, a naval physician in the American war, informed me that he found great diffi- culty in walking the streets of London on one side of the way, but upon the other he walked better than on flat ground ; and when I remarked his lameness, and inquired into its cause, he informed me it had arisen from a fracture of the fibula, which happened many years ago, and to which not having applied splints, the foot became twisted, so that he walked better upon an inclined plane than upon flat ground.” Fractures of the two bones of the leg toge- ' ther are more common than all those of the same two bones singly ; indeed, the cases are three or four times more numerous than the single fractures of either bone. The most common accident is a transverse division of the bones about three inches above the mal- leoli. A rather frequent and serious set of accidents consists of different fractures of the two malleoli, or of the inner malleolus, and of ■ the fibula, close above the ankle: these ma- • terially involve the ankle-joint. The tibia,, being sometimes luxated, and the mischiefl being complicated with laceration of integu- • ments, presents us with very formidable con-• ditions, the whole train of whose consequences; demands all the powers of surgery. The divisions of the upper third of the' tibia are rare, and mostly somewhat oblique;; i Fig. 65. foUotviny e.rnmph'.155 FRACTURE. Fig. 338. Fracture of the tibia and fibula long repaired. This ajmeannice, in a manner., explains its own his- tory. ft cannot be supposed that any one force could first break the small bone above, and then the larger beloio. Superincumbent weight, obliquely applied, has first bro/centhe tibia and then the fibula. The observation of such an injury tends to assure us that fracture of the tibia attended with a certain degrefiof displacement, almost necessarily involves tho division of the fibula. but oblique fractures of the shaft of the tibia take place chiefly about or below its middle. The plane of the separation in these cases is usually inclined upwards and outwards; the upper divided end presenting, forwards and inwards,—angular displacement, with little or much of shortening. Other modes of frac- ture and displacement are scarcely uncom- mon. The foot with the inferior fragments is disposed to roll outwards ; or if the former be elevated, the broken ends may become depressed. Oblique fractures of the tibia may present much overlapping; transverse fractures scarce- ly admit of any, on account of the broad sur- faces of resistance which such a division of the tibia affords. The symptoms of fracture of the leg are generally too plain to be doubted. Near the ankle, fissures of one or both bones are, of course, undiscoverable by any tact; for this reason all severe sprains should be treated as being, possibly, fractures. When the fracture but seems to implicate a joint, it should be an object of double caution; and most of all, if it concerns the knee-joint. Fractures of the upper third of the tibia are rarely subject to either much displacement or difficulty ; i. e. independently of complica- tions. Obliquity, displacement, the action of muscles, and the possibility of the fracture becoming open by ulceration or sloughing, are the principal sources of care in the ma- nagement of all these injuries, wheu they are not complicated still more seriously. The treatment of fractures of the leg, as adopted and recommended by various writers, is, unfortunately, not uniform ; but I would hope that the student will not be far misled from the best method of practice by the fol- lowing rules :— The bent position of the knee freely relaxes the superficial gastrocnemius. A slight degree of extension of the ankle (scarcely more than in the attitude of repose) relieves the inter- nal gastrocnemius, with the peronei; and tho last are also relaxed by laying the limb on its outer side. It maj' be granted in the onset, that fractures of the leg may be treated with good success in tho last named posture ; as well ns in the straight position, or on the heel, w'ith the knee more or less bent; and we may admit that with due attention it may often be rather a matter of iiidiflcrcnce which ])osition is made choice of; but the two positions of flexion, only, will obviate certain displacements of bone; sometimes tho one, and sometimes tho other. So that after all, it is a great rule to try dif- ferent positions in difficult cases ; and, again, it is necessary to consider tho facilities or dis- advantages of every position. O/wi fractures.156 FRACTURE. which require daily dressing, may at times preclude all choice. It is only when the fracture is decidedly above the lower third of the leg, that any re- straining apparatus will be required to act above the knee. Mr. Pott, in advocating the bent position for the treatment of fraetures of the two bones, advised that the limb should rest on its outer side, on pillows ; but there appears to be nothing in his views opposed to the other method of flexion. A splint to include the foot and knee, both on the inside and out, and well padded, were to be adapted as the surgeon, with his assistants, completed exten- sion and coaptation, (the limb being in the proposed posture,) and then secured over a many-tailed bandage and soap-plaster. Pil- lows beneath the whole limb were arranged to give it both ease and security. We should remember that Pott was unacquainted with many contrivances which aflbrded a choice of position. His position is least objectionable, and sometimes indispensable for injuries near the ankle ; but it does not include any means of confining the knee. The straight position, with side-splints of equal or unequal lengths, with or without a foot-piece on one or both sides ; or the same position, the calf resting on a long excavated splint, with a sole-piece, may sometimes suf- fice ; or, at least, be available in the absence of other resources, or under particular circum- stances of open fracture, or extensive wounds. In a large number of cases, however, and perhaps in all, there will be found great ad- vantages in placing the patient on his back, with the knee considerably flexed, and the thigh confined with the leg. Mr. MTntyre’s splint,—a form of double-inclined plane, with a foot-piece, and moveable side pieces for the leg, is well adapted for the objects desired. Frac- ture boxes, in which the flexed leg rests hori- zontally on the calf, with moveable pegs along each side, afford great facilities, both in the way of firm support and ready access, and admit of the employment of various short leg- splints. They are, however, less secure for fractures of the upper half of the tibia than the apparatus of Mr. MTntyre or that of Mr. Amesbury. Fig. 339. Mr. Amesbury's apparatus for Fractures of the Leg. “ Composition. — A thigh-piece., pro- perly shaped to receive the back of the thigh., having a pair of lateral splints connected ivith it, and some studs for the retention of straps;— a leg-piece, immovably connected to the thigh-piece at an angle, and hol- lowed out for the reception of the back of the leg ;—a foot-piece, which may be so shifted as to adapt the leg-piece to the lenfh of the leg. The foot-piece shoidd not rise higher than is necessary to form a right angle with the leg-piece when connected with it. There are some holes in each side of this, and a strap is attached to it, having upon one end a buckle;—a shoe, with a wooden sole, for the reception and retention of the foot, to which are attached two straps for connecting it with the foot-board ; the shoe is supported by a foot-strap, which, ivheii in use, extends from one side of the thigh- piece round the lower part of the foot-board, where it is passed under a strip of leather placed there to keep it in its place, and then carried up to the opposite side of the thigh-jnece, where it is bicckled. “ The apparatus ought to be adapted to the sound limb in cases of simple fracture of the leg, and well pad- ded ; a small concave pad too should be placed on the inside of the heel of the shoe, and another pad xipon the sole. Two side-splints are required, the outer one^ extending from the foot-board to the upper part of the outer comh/le of the femur, and the inner one from the foot-hoard to the inner condyle;—also a split deal shin-splint; and in cases of oblique frac- tuv(t a thin piul to t)G applied upon the insteps covcved with a piece of paatC'boaTd^ a little wetted^ wliich^ when dry^ serves to equalize the pressure and keep tlw instep easy. “ Application.—In the first or Indammatory stap,— The shoe, a, cordaiving the heel and sole-pads, should be carefully placed upon the foot; the instep-pad slmdd then hi placed upon the instep, and the shoe closed over it, and dosely confined to the fool by means (f tJw huc-kles and straps attached to itfn ihai ]>urt)osc. An assistuiit shoiild then place one hand under the knee, and, taking the foot in the other, raise the fractured limb, bringing it round so us to Fig. 67. let it rest upon the heel. When the limb is raised, the surgeon places the apparatus under it, and brings the angle of the same opposite the bend of the knee, directing the assistant to lower the limb upon it. “ The surgeon now fixes the shoe, a, to the foot-board, b, by means of the straps attached to the sole. By the aid of this shoe he is enabled to raise or lower the foot according to the length of the heel or thickness of the calf, so as to bring the lower portion of the frac- tured bones into a proper line with the upper, as far as respects any angular projection backward or for- ward. A padded splint should be placed upon the front of the thigh, and the whole of the thigh-part of the apparatus fixed to the thigh by means of the straps, c. That done, the foot-board should be raised nearly to a right angle with the leg-piece, andfived tn this position by the foot-strap, d, care being timen ttiM the heel does not bear against the sole of the shoe. I lie fractured ends should next be noticed; ami if the foot requires to he raised or lowered, it may be done bi/ means of the strap tvhich confines the shoe to the foot-board. u “ The part of the pad, e, which lies under the small of the leg, should be raised and supported in close con- tact with it by means of tow placed between the pad and this part of the apparatus, so that the whole length of the back of the leg may have an equal bear- ing upon the apparatus. ,.,.11 j “ The lateral splints are next to ho apuluid, the longest upon the outer side of the leg, and the shortest upon its inner side. The lower ends of these splxnts shoidd , be fastened to the foot-board by means of narrow tapes missed through the holes at the sides and the upper end kept close to the leg by the circular strap.157 FRACTURE. ff, passed round the limb over the splints and the ap- paratus. “ With respect to the position, the limb thus fixed should be placed ilnth the apparatus resting upon the heel; the two planes should be connected, as seen in the wood-cut, by means of the steel bar, which forms part of the apparatus for fractures of the thigh, described page 323, and the whole steadied by tapes attached to the foot-board, and passing off from thence to the sides of die foot of the bed. Surgical applications may be made by unbuckling the circular leg-strap, and throwing back the side-splints. “ When the inflammation is subdued.—Some strips of soap-plaster, each about an inch and a half wide, should be applied with very moderate tightness round the limb, and sufiiciently close ; they should pass from the ankle to a considerable distance above the frac- ture. The ends should be crossed on the sides or front of the leg, and cut off, so as to be easily turned back, when it is necessary to observe the state of the skin. Some strips also, or a short roller, should be passed round the foot to prevent cedematous swelling in that part. When this is done, and the side-flints re-applied, the shin-splint should be properly adjusted, and the whole leg-part of the apparatus supported by three circular straps and buckles. “ The cross bar may be now removed, and the appara- tus furnished with a sling or thong of leather fixed to the lower end of ike leg-part of the apparatus; by means of this t%e limb may be moved passively at pleasure; the patient may recline upon a sofa, or rest his leg upon the seat of a chair. He may walk, too, with the assistance of crutches, passing in this ease the sling over the neck, as in the ordinary way; the movements of the limb, hoivever, should be always passive, and never by the action of its own muscles. In a fortnight or three weeks' time, according to dr- cumstances, the foot-board should be shifted a little higher up the leg-jnece, to press thefractured ends to- gether, and to hasten their consolidation. “ Oblique Fractures.—In these cases extension must be made in the following manner:—the thigh-piece of the apparatus must first of all be pressed up closely against the back of the thigh, and the foot-board shifted down, so as to make the space between the foot- board and the thiglL-piece longer than the leg; an as- sistant then grasps the foot and ankle in his hands, and makes gentle extension in the natural line of the bone, so as to bring the fractured parts into proper adaptation; when this is done, the surgeon keeps tip the extension by buckling the strap, whic/i is fixed trans- versely to the shoe, round the foot-board. Great care must be taken that the broken extremities unite in the relative position which they naturally occupy; for this purpose auxiliary pads and rollers must be judi- ciously applied, according to the bone affected and the nature of the obliquity It is usual before applying splints, as we have already stated, to employ bandages or adhesive plasters j and the best reason for this practice appears to be, that it is desirable to render the pressure of the more solid ap- paratus as general and equable as possible. So far, therefore, as the reason given is concern- ed, the first applications are important, in proportion as the outer parts are likely to press firmly, or unequally ; but under these circumstances it may be objected that the state of the compressed member may be thus too much concealed ; and that it hinders con- stant watchfulness required to anticipate mis- chievous consequences. Another almost universal rule is to make free use of cooling lotions. These have no effect where pads or thick bandages are placed ; ’ Dr. Cutlers I*r.icLical Ctuide to ftressing, ^c. and elsewhere, again, they may retard repara- tion. When active inflammation is to be feared, they should be made and used eSi- ciently, and even the use of splints should for a while give place to them. The tendon-cutters, among their various extravagant measures, have not as yet, I be- lieve, begun to facilitate the coaptation of fractures; I cannot but think, however, that there are a few cases in which it would be very desirable to take advantage of the divi- sion of a tendon, as of that of the heel, when the only alternative is manifestly a seriously deformed limb. Many fractures, even of both bones, of the leg, are easily retained in good coaptation, and much restraint is not only unnecessary, but pre- judicial ; for the more of freedom that can be allowed, without inducing deformity, the more rapid and solid will be the reparation. (For farther particulars, see Luxations of the Ankle-joint.) The treatment of open fractures of the leg, which are frequent accidents, may call for some exertion of the practitioner’s ingenuity. The injury to the soft parts may be various and extensive, and each particular case will require special adaptations of both dressings and applications. Fig. 68. The annexed simple contrivance of an inter- rupted splint explains its own object, and may serve to illustrate the manner in which other cases must be met. The objections to refined and complicated appa- ratus are generally not to be denied, but I have thought it worth while to present the fol- lowing as a useful ex- ample of the method by which particular dif- ficulties may be sur- mounted. It is for a very similar reason that I would strongly re- commend the young practitioner to make himself theoretically acquainted with a con- siderable variety of the mechanical contri- vances for the treatment of fractures ; not so much with intent to employ them ns to avail himself of the simpler resources which they may indicate to him. “ The apparatus below (fig. 341), consists of a leg and thigh-piece, like the common inclined plane ; the thigh part having a slide to it, to adapt it to diflerent lengths and being fixed by the screw c. The leg part of the apparatus consists of three portions, a, b, c; which admit of being raised or depressed at pleasure, by means of a slide, which is connected to the under part of each, and which passes through a back bar, which con-FRACTURE. 158 nects the thigh splint to the rest of the appa- ratus. These slides are fastened by a screw, which turns against each of them. The foot- piece, e, has a foot-board connected with it, which allows of the angle being altered at pleasure by means of a slide in which it moves. The principle of the apparatus is precisely that of the common inclined plane; and the limb is adapted to it in the same manner. The peculiar points gained by it are the following : —if the knee part of the leg be wanted to be placed at a different level to the rest, the Apparatus for the treatment of certain fractures of the lea, described by Mr. Lonsdale. Of course the inter- rupted splint before de- scribed admits of being almost infinitely varied ; and the plan of Mr. Lonsdale’s machine may, I think, aflPord the basis of many less intricate but important adjuncts in practice. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. To these apply, mutatis mutandis, the obser- vations made on fractures of the hand. Par- tial or general crushes often leave only the choice of how much is to be saved or removed. The mass of bones being naturally impacted, renders them inaccessible to almost all parti- cular measures of coaptation and retention. The astragalus may be broken singly, in consequence of the violent descent of the tibia. Mr. Lonsdale relates such a case. There were no symptoms to indicate the nature of the injury decidedly; the joint was generally swollen; the patient was treated as for a severe sprain. Much inflammation and constitutional disturbance supervened, and the man died on the twelfth day from that of the accident. The astragalus was found to be split in two or three directions. Fractures of the os calcis, as of the bones of the foot generally, may arise from penetrating, gun-shot, or crushing injuries, (see Luxations, Amputations, &c.) ; but a specific injury of the os calcis deserves men- tion both on its own account and on that of its analogies. The following are related by Sir A. Cooper: “ Case.—Miss N., a lady about forty years of age, was walking in a field on the 6th of De- cember last, towards the close of the day, when she stumbled and fell to the ground, and for some time was unable to rise. By good fortune, some men were returning home from work, and finding she could not walk, carried her to a neighbouring house. I was sent for to examine the accident, and she informing me that she felt something strike the back part of the leg, I immediately supposed she had ruptured the tendo Achillis of that leg, and I instantly commenced examining that part, when I was surprised to feel something un- part, a, may be moved ; if the central part, i may be raised or depressed ; and if the foe ■ part, c is to be moved so as to bring the het ' up or down, as may be required. It will b i seen by these three moveable pieces, that an - prominence that may exist in one part of th i leg more than another, can be remedied, a the pressure can be increased or diminishe ■ opposite to any part, according to the situe t tion and degree of the displacement of thii ends of the bone.” Fig. 69. commonly sharp and hard, not like the feel c a ruptured tendon; I found it to be the a.' calcis which was fractured, and which wai drawn up by the action of the gastrocnemhi to three inches from its situation. I immedEi ately informed the lady of the accident sh had sustained, and the necessary treatment! but, unfortunately, she was extremely deaui and of a very obstinate temper, so that could scarcely prevail upon her to go to bec i Though she had violent pain, she would conn tinue to irritate the part by bending anm extending the foot with her hands, thinkinj it was only a sprain, and would soon b better ; the consequence of which was, tha. most violent inflammation ensued, and I wa > afraid she would lose her leg. By evaporat ing lotions and poultices, however, in a wee^i the inflammation and swelling was reducec I and I applied a bandage similar to the on < described by Dr. Monro ; but was unable t' bring the bones in apposition, nor could prevail upon her to wear the bandage mor i than a week; therefore, I ordered her t wear a high-heeled shoe, which she has don ^ ever since, and is now able to walk very wel by the aid of a stick, and can bend an^ extend the foot at pleasure, the bone remain i ing in the situation before mentioned, annt the interspace being filled up by ligamentoii substance.” “ Case.—My friend, Mr. J. H. Green, relate' to me, some years ago, the case of a ladj who, going up stairs in the dark, and believinj. there to be another stair, when she had real( ' ascended the whole flight, fractured this bon by the violent action into which the muscle of the leg were thrown in consequence of th efforts she made to preserve herself fror falling. The patient was placed in bed, wit, the knee flexed and the loot extended unti the inflammation was subdued. A high''FRACTURE. 159 heeled shoe was then used for the purpose of keeping the tendo Achillis in its most complete state of relaxation, but ligamentous union only could be effected.” Some writers recommend active measures to depress the detached fragment, but it must be apparent that pressure at its upper edge will be most effectual in driving it towards the ankle joint. The most complete relaxation and entire rest of the gastrocnemii for about a fortnight will facilitate the first adhesions ; and subsequently the most gentle and gradu- ally increased tension will best convert those adhesions into a short and massive ligament. A moderate acquaintance with the contents of this article will hardly fail to make the student au fait in the management of the frac- tures of the remaining bones of the foot, which are few, and little varied. Bibliography.—Concerning Fractures in general. Duvemey., Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1754. Petit, J. L., Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1758. Pott, Remarks on Fraetures and Dislocations. Lond. 1770. Ditto, translated by P. Cassus. Paris, 1788. Aithen, Essays on Important Subjects in Surgery, etc., 1771. Boettcher, Abnandlung von den Krankbeiten der Knochen. Berlin, 1796. Boyer, Leqons sur les Maladies des Os, publiees par Ricnerand. Paris, 180k Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tom. iii. Paris. Sue, Remarques et Reflexions sur quelques Maladies des Os. Paris, 1803. Dupuytren, Memoire sur quelques cas particuliers de Fractures. Bulletin de la Faculte, 1811. Sattter, Anweisung der Bein- briicbe der Gliedmassen. Wint. 1812. Cooper, A., A Treatise on Dislocations, and on Fractures of the Joints. Lond. 1823. Campaignac, Des Fractures In completes, et des Fractures Longitudinales. Paris, 1830. Bernstein, Ueber die Verrenkungen und Bein- briiche. Jena, 1819. Richter, Theoretisch-praktischer Handbuch der Lehre von den Briichen. Berlin, 1828. Sanson, Diet, de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, tom. viii. art. Fractures, 1832. Lonsdale, A Practical Treatise on Fractures, illustrated with woodcuts. Lond. 1838. For the Bibliography of Particular Fractures, see Traite de Chirurgie, par M. J. Chelius, traduit par J. P, Pigne, Paris, 1839. (T". Wilkinson King.^ THE END. OiLBERT & Rivington, Printers, St. John’s Square, London.I^VI- *- ^^^'*'^■■* >- V. ‘ „ >’ '_, * , ... ^ * 1 ‘/W- \ .'■t fS' - tSfe‘ ‘‘"■3^' ' ‘ v*' f'^ ^ ? «* Hv»j i !^4'’.' ■•» t.,i ' ■ -j’ ^ - J • -.W' . •- ,■ . r* .■• : ....'•vu*.’^,.,.' -VN.’' ’ii*" -Xif ■'rt'.i j > '. . ■ V f, ■■■ •■>'» ' ' •■ V'”*- !' :'V- ' ' .*;"«' 1- J^i' ' ■cr.,^-s''f^.» -‘, »; .V. A ' •''■>' "?*■•••■■ ■ *• . Sv *'s;''( -'fj^AtyV r'gft/;*. ■, .• ' 'H'- .* - ■^t'v .>*V'.’...^-^ ' '^' •' >>; ' V.. s;,* |y|M .w,'. .Kr.•;.,. .■ ^ ^'- ,*^v ^ ^ _ ' /Y-iK -f • ^ ,¥J'V \ fT ^ li-t ■•*■ ^ ■-'• v^’*' -nirr :,r#i\SrS-^ .<«»r'^i .-jiO *i»,. t^J'. - V.,'.; - fV ptl -<^*4^ , ■'^-’".V —J f;’ ' ?S»» t,"*i'*“‘ lipiriv .tf*i, ie-5 K : ^V:... - V.:: -:--^ /'■ lte(. . » Cj? -S'-'^^ ..•1^fc--ijJ^ , • ■- **«'^ - . . _i... -.u-i, •■ ■»•> H. \ ti-’ .; J ■-% f- ■£H-.,.-.-.. V-V^,.-, ,v >*®<SF j»RU<'. .. . , V,., ■y,.-,' •r. '!y^. V.,.. .. ;., ..' . -C/ ' ■ ‘.' - a*b |ii- .<, ft , ■ - ■; ■. '' t-V • >1 . . , «_‘'i ... i 'i " ,.'yV?i^^...T^*»^, i^\< ‘I ^Bb®SWS’- - ^ . -. •■■-L .»•■-t--: ^ .-.^^l ■ -;•. •■-■,'«' i|ip»tt..v« ' - " ■ * • «‘-.>?,f.-..-VI ' ■• ’ '^'^4 ’ rj W. -' i': . •I V V\ lAr -' '-^'t >- p;hi!*4J!9 VI‘'jfc; •• ■ .Or''/ ..:it\' " . . % ♦ • • , ,t«» fe't >jl> ;-^‘V:'-. ‘ i •: ■;' -' .w,..,v. * ■' ■ ^.■ ■•. ^ 1 '■. ’ • .■ -V.y - • fi .. * ▼ ^ * I- «•- . * ;* •>«••* " ‘'.-..I • I* j< ;' C.^ '. g< •■-■ . >• & - ^’t . . q ,*. *-^'=-.>^- A rr'.-vr.v .r» ' mm ‘ ^ >' 'HF- v 1 '•)^^ U‘ .< "Sr ica. .. . Sl..AJ'.THE GUY’S HOSPITAL REPORTS, No. XI. ON THE EPISTERNAL BONES OCCASIONAI.LY FOUND IN MAN. BY T. WILKINSON KING. , PUBU.SHED INn' 7 n S » f i r - i : . • \ • 4 » l'- * if »> . -TlT' ’ ^ : * i '.\' t. f. •J ■ \ '' ‘ *■]VoT having found any English anatomist—nor, indeed, any Foreigners, among those with whom I have conversed— who were able to say they had seen episternal bones in the human subject, it has seemed to me well to present the English reader with a sketch, from the only instance that has fallen within my own observation. First Bone of the Sternum, surmounted by two small Symmetrical Bones. POSTERIOR VIEW. The subject of the above peculiarity was a man* of a decidedly well-developed form:—which remark is the only particular of correlative history to which I can attach im- portance, in connexion with the rare formation depicted * bee the history of C. C. lirown, aged 25—who died sixteen days after fracture of the dorsal vertebrio and dislocation of the sternum—in the Clinical Society's Hook, Surgeons' Patients, Males (B), Vol. I. p. 2C6 ; and (for the post-mortem history) in the Tenth Miscellaneous Inspection Book, p. 115— See also No-lOSS’" in tlie Museum.4 Mr. King on Ephternal Bones. above. It coincides with one which I was accustomed to make, as a demonstrator in the dissecting-room, relative to the occurrence of supernumerary muscles in the more mus- ^cular bodies; but this was without any determined or sta- tistical foundation. M. Breschet states, that he has met with many instances of the existence of human epistemal bones, somewhat larger than pisiform bones; having doubtless their proper centres of ossification, and having synovial articulations with the crest of the sternum (rather posterior), but liable to become united to that bone, or rather to lose the synovial cell*. The use of the epistemal bones cannot, I suppose, but be insignificant; as that of a rudimentary thirteenth rib, or a sixth finger, or a diverticulum ilei. M. Breschet seems to consider these bones as the rudiments or vestiges of imperfectly-developed ribs; and he forms an analogy between them and the epistemal bones which are natural or essential parts of some animals. But with respect to the doctrines of analogy and gradation, it is not my aim to illustrate or extend them : I would rather wish most strictly to confine them; as I consider them as some- thing worse than unprofitable, when pursued exclusively, or for their own sakes; and therefore always dangerous, unless some plain deduction seems to grow immediately from the study. The comparison of the fore extremity in different animals, for instance, may seYve to explain the use of a part; but in all the resemblances and differences, considered together, 1 see nothing beyond this one thing, that the espe- cial form of each is perfectly adapted to the use for which it was ordainedt. With regard to rare and accidental formations, their use and mode of production seem to belong more particularly to the domain of pathology. * He has given good delineations of some specimens, in an Essay in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1838. t Speaking of the almost countless bones in the paddle of Icthyopaurus, and the fins of fishes. Sir Charles Bell wonders what tlie naturalist can ever deduce from the mere theory of the gradual decrease, or change, of elementary parts : and this seems to me to apply everywhere. See the Bridgewater Treatise on the Hand, pp. 102 and 90.THE GUY’S HOSPITAL REPORTS, No. V. CASE OF DISEASE IN THE F(ETUS. BY MR. T. W. KING. y PUBLISHED IK• • '' u ‘ >-?*,■ :^;r- V ’■ ,'' : v'^ ' < . r*v'’ 'V' ' * '. • • t , .*• <i<iA ‘ .1' ■ ■' •• r ■ • ■ • ?3Nff 4* i«.-» .'T/t * - tt ■ t. ^ ’ ’ * Vi. ' . ^ .I ^ ^ ‘ sr, tHkJ lufTv ,f.Jf«.>?; ■?{.• 4^‘Tt«^#wi!'(.r->'»fl«jn,fo/of^:SV <»i oiit h';l ^'ffsd -4 anj« 'vofjUMT <«r '-uvo? I J/tif. m< 'li ;u iit 3;(caT -■ • <-" 4 vjr ui rojovr “ r* ?i - . . • »®i;.tbi>1 ji m?J08o!/^ ^^f^t r ri'piitB/’ 'K hioo-^ 4< uir-if. sjnivnU .ijiO'H'iil Jto*’ 'ir nil llo *»r{J !««<;> . ^iiilj iiil't* <1- '■ ';i .0 .1 ',■ ■ «5i«r-i/v .-iJ: ,v ;‘' K ^te ■ fcj , ■ •' •■<''■ •: W . lY, * :.YV T •; v**» ,. i. . a f>rdi,!'j v/j -..■ 0 ".aciii rw r> • ■' h;fv«- ,-.Ur ‘.■'^ r-rfrr {jjqioiw'iq YdJ one vi >’ i(< !< ■>fStn>VuIJi' ■‘•♦.t -ffoi; toiti^ai aioii aju <4 boVAon fuf riont r r bfi/o-T' 1 ir'c* j lV»ltfl>9& ijifr.n;.* y"'*' bi' -'o* K-.' r-c^ I inJ-jillo . ,4'jKOVi »» ‘ 4S.'>; f-i • ' ” v' * * * » ' •».-■' oI» li-li/lw >‘it;>!.’ •■'■: )o iKl-' )■> ■■’I’Uiat ■ ’ ’ <■ Va Tf' '■fi'iii'f /itAiinii'itii if lii’jijaH ^.!v.)•■,5|^^fI «(('()'•<'< ,<Iifi •<TVifii-,i(t .'!•; :■■■ ;• -i-»bis*'. ,bjn.(, . ? H''' ••''1' f; ‘)ifj ' *' jJ ,«■•»■ .iJ- ••.' ■ > r( >j(iv* ji'UIVo •♦ili •-• /fv/: *>i3 tv liV.i’but! rS'lt iitij') (K'li!i'!ji»3' ttif't’ vifliv'' .Sitjvr '1 ’ I iTi ' iJatrfw fim'r9 noorttKiv I. •<( r>J ^ .‘.nii'isq* s<l3 bi rw'i/- hiiirv^* Sift J’fiVfo V rfjvft* H(fv JinliU Tfdh'iu f. ft' ? h‘iH (lAffvNjilrY trt t'■ I. ■-iHb'aJ iffi'W «nfi .->^Uj; •II^ t ii'TA'i »flT »u* " ,-,V l-.ii- ).,■ .*'>'■•. • l-.r ..iV^iy ■-IMPERVIOUS urethra; accumulated urinary secretion; dilated ureter; bursting op the distended bladder; peritonitis and ascites at the fourth month of F(ETAL life. Thk rarity of the following case*, the plain and simple pathological explanation of events, and the probable phy- siological inference of fcetal secretion, have led me to consider these particulars as fully worthy of being recorded; and I have been at some pains to render them accurate, though it has not been in my power to make them in all respects complete. Mr. Nathaniel Coats presented to the Museum a fetus, the subject of the present history. Having seen a good deal of practice, he was struck with the unusual appear- ances when the case occurred; and preserved the specimen very carefully, with the view to its being made available in the illustration of disease. The following are the principal particulars, which he related to me from memory, con- I have not found any precisely similar history detailed ; but I would venture to remark, that more general and careful observations of foetal morbid anatomy might explain many of that class of abortions which do not originally depend on the mother. There are some cases which appear cf a doubtful class. Two cases occurred, under my own observation, within a few days, which seemed easily explained. In one, it appeared that the foetus had been expelled at the os uteri, through a little fissure in the ovum, which subsequently came away otherwise entire. The umbilical cord was torn across in the aperture. This, which I believe to be a common event, occurred about the sixth week. In the other case, at about the second month, a simple decollation seemed to have been effected in a similar manner. The head came away perfect; but the remainder was dissolved by decomposition, with much delay, and foetid discharge.Mr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 4 cerning the circumstances of the mother, who was under his care, in the neighboui’hood of the Nanty-Glo Iron Worksf. Mrs. Morgan, 27 years of age, of a somewhat strumous appearance, and menstruating at all times irregularly, had been married eighteen months, when she became pregnant for the first time; but although the catamenia were absent, she was not aware of her condition. She appeared to suffer from peritonitis at an early period of her pregnancy, and subsequently continued more or less ailing and deli- cate. A premature parturition was preceded by an attack closely resembling peritonitis, for which she was actively treated. The patient had not supposed herself to be with child, until the time of her delivery. The foetus was born dead, with a full hydropic belly. Nothing else of an unusual nature Avas obsei'ved: the mother recovered naturally. The foetus had been preserved in spirits about three months, and was brought to me in good condition. It was of the male sex. Its age was, perhaps, more than four months; and besides - the distention of the abdomen, there was no evident devia- tion of the external form. The ascitic cavity had become flaccid; but probably contained, when first observed, about a quart of fluid. Its parietes were very considerably distended and attenuated, notwithstanding, some oedema which affected the surface together with the umbilical cord. On opening the cavity, I found the fluid opake, viscid, and of a dusky reddish colour, with numerous soft flakes of fibrinous matter floating in it. The natural gloss of the peritoneum was a good deal destroyed; and the surface was in parts slightly coated, as with fibrine. The liver was reduced, and had become much rounded in figure: its tunic was opake, and somewhat thick. With this organ the bowels were collected into a bunch, in the middle of the superior part of the abdomen. The bladder was large; and extended to the umbilicus, without any appearance of a distended urachus. It may have contained, originally, rather more than half a pint of water. Its coats were decidedly tliick ; and when the dilatation is considered, they ■f JMoiimmithshire.5 Mr.Kin(js Case of Disease in the Foetus. may be said to have been much hypertophied. The lining membrane did not appear materially changed, in other re- spects. The general figure of the sac was globular, with a little cell reaching into the prostate, as if it were the commencement of an urethra. Beyond this there was no excretory canal. The penis was perhaps rather small, but seemed otherwise well shaped. A perforation was found a little behind the summit of the bladder, around which the vesical tunics were very much reduced, as if by absorption from the pressure of distention. This ruptured opening of communication from the bladder into the peritoneum was a simple fissure, rather less than half an inch in length; and its margins were extremely thin. The ureters were enlarged, chiefly inferiorly, and much beyond the capacity of these canals in the adult. They were tortuous, and somewhat thickened. Their vesical termina- tions were more natural. The kidneys were small, and somewhat lobular, and not materially affected by pressure within. The rectum and anus were well formed: the large intestines contained but little meconium. The testes were somewhat flattened, loose, and slight: they were situated within the internal abdominal rings. The spleen and sto- mach were small. The supra-renal bodies, and the contents of the chest, were fairly developed. There are some remarks which naturally arise out of the consideration of the preceding case, but which it will not be necessary to do more than advert to at this time. I have supposed that cases more or less resembling the above may prove to be not very uncommon: at least, I should rather anticipate that dissections more frequently performed may bring to light frequent analogous instances. The present case seems to have been protracted to a late stage of disease, and one that woulc^ be very remarkable in the adult. My friends, Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Edward Cock, have informed me of the case of a foetus, which they examined together some years back, in which there was a similar dilatation of the bladder, from accumulation.Mr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 6 Now, it is of course sufficiently well known, that all the consequences of urinary obstruction which have been re- lated above also occur in adult persons; but, in reflecting upon the instance before me, there appear to be some peculiarities highly deserving of notice. I shall advert to them according to the order in which.they may be sup- posed to have arisen, as to time. We cannot doubt that a certain secretion is effected in these cavities during foetal life: hence, the importance of an urachus, and its appendages, in certain animals. At the same time, we may observe, that the absence of any notable urachus on tliis occasion seems to indicate its small impor- tance, or rather it implies a totally different arrangement in the human economy. The appearances which I have detailed would imply an exceedingly slow process of accumulation. The yielding, togetlier with the thickening, which had taken place in the urinary passages must have required a very considerable time in which to become completed: the nature of the opening of extravasation is also perfectly characteristic of a gradual change : and the same applies to the Case which was dissected by Mr. Cock.* The result is closely analogous • In the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. XIX., Dr. Robert Lee has presented some facts resembling the present history, in order to illus- trate the function of the kidneys before birth. His Paper consists, First, of the history of a child born at the eighth month; with a double hare-lip ; clubbed feet; and an enlarged abdomen, in consequence of obstruction in the ureters, and of accumulation in the renal pelves (to the amount of ^iv. on one side, and ^ix. on the other) of a fluid, which Dr. Prout decided to be of an urinary nature, to contain lithic acid, and to have a specific gravity of about 1.012. In the Second place, it is related, that pure liquor amnii, drawn off at the sixth month, was of a straw colour, sp. g. 1.010, neither acid nor alkaline, and devoid of any trace of urine or uric acid. Thirdly, Mr. Howship’s Case is introduced.—A male was born alive at the eighth month, and died in a few hours. It had distorted feet, and im- perforate anus. A quarter of an inch of the urethra, near the bladder, was impervious. The bladder contained seven or eight ounces of clear limpid urine; and its coats were extraordinarily thick, but had yielded posteriorly, so as to form a pouch. The ureters were as large as the finger, attenuated and contorted ; and the kidneys resembled a congeries of small hydatids, no larger tlian garden-peas, loosely connected together by cellular membrane. There was no visible remain of, nor any a])pearance at all resembling, tlie natural structure of the kidneys ; yet, from considering the ajipcarance, it was7 Mr. Kimjs Case of Disease in the Foetus. to the effects in the adult, not where the retention is com- plete, but where it is partial and long continued. I have remarked upon the late stage of progress to which the foetus liad survived, namely, a severe and inflam- matory ascites of considerable standing, as evinced by the contracted liver and general state of the cavity and its con- tents : and the inference which I would draw from these indications, is, that the urinary secretion must be much less irritating than in after-life. After birth, such an extravasa- tion is fatal within a day. In the case in question, if the vesical rupture had produced the ascites, which I can hardly doubt, this last must have existed for several days sub- sequently. The case under consideration seems to shew, also, that micturition is naturally performed in ovo; that is, as far as could be seen, the obstruction to the discharge was the only original defect, and the prime cause of all the visible disease*. was clear, in my opinion, they must have continued to secrete urine till the patient died. ' Fourthly : It is stated, that Dr. Ivanove, of St. Petersburg, ‘‘had dissected a child, born at the full time, who lived forty-eight hours, with the urethra imperforate, the bladder much and the ureters still more distended.” Fifthly : Sir B. Brodie had seen a nearly full-grown male foetus with the orifice of the urethra congenitally deficient, and the bladder, ureters, and renal pelves, all a good deal distended by a fluid which Mr. Brand found to have the other properties of urine, but no uric acid.—{A Treatise on Urinary Complaints, Sj^c., by John Howship, 1823.) Sixthly : A case is quoted from IM. Billiard of a child who died a month old, hydrocephalic, with one imperforate ureter, and the corresponding kidney as large as a goose’s egg, forming a multilocular cyst without re- mains of renal substance.—The opposite organ was hypertrophic. Another case is given from M. Billiard of a still-born male with an enormously distended bladder. The internal, not the external orifice, was closed. The ureters became greatly enlarged upwards; and each kidney was nearly as large as a hen’s egg, lobular, cystlform, and covered with cortical substance. Lastly : There is a sketch, by Mr. Wilson, of a child who lived a quarter of an hour, in whom the kidneys were as large as a man’s fist, gone entirely into hydatids (cystiform dilatations), the ureters exceedingly convoluted and dilated, and the bladder prodigiously enlarged. The waters of the amnion and allantois have been analyzed by nnmeioiis investigators. Vauquelin makes the sj>. g. of the human liquor amnii 1.005, when freed from its insoluble matters; and he agrees with Bostock in stating the soluble contents at less than 2 per cent. These statementsMr. King's Case of Disease in the Foetus. 8 We may well imagine that the modified means of nourish- ment, and restrained functions of foetal life, should require a less complete, or considerable urinary excretion: and the copious cutaneous elimination may compensate for tliis whilst its sebaceous nature may serve to shield the delicate surface of the body from whatever is offensive in the waters of the amnion. statements are given by Berzelius, without reference to the period of gesta- tion. Frommherz and Gagert discovered, besides animal substance, ammonia, and benzoic acid, and, as they think, urea ; and also muriate, phosphate, sulphate, and carbonate of soda, sulphate of lime, and salts of potash. According to Dr. Prout, the amniotic fluid of the cow, in the early part of gestation, contains. Water 97.70 Albumen 0.26 Alcoholic extract and lactates . . 1,66 Watery extract, sugar of milk, and salts .■ 0.38 100. This examination would indicate, as Berzelius remarks, that this fluid is a source of nourishment to the foetus. The fluid in the allantois of the cow, that is,” says Berzelius, the urine of the foetal calf, has a sp. g. between 1.003 and 1.0295 (varying still more, perhaps, according to the age of the foetus). It no longer contains any con- siderable quantity of albumen; but it aflfords the extractive matter, and the salts of urine, with a peculiar acid, the allantoic, which was the discovery of Vauquelin {Traite de Chimie, par J. J. Berzelius, traduite par Esslinger. Paris.) It is not unworthy of attention—if the Wolffian bodies are possessed of different canals in connection with the genito-urinary passages, as has been supposed—that the obstruction of these passages produced no apparent impediment to the absorption of those provisional foetal organs. We might regard this fact, if it shall be corroborated, as indicating rather that the bodies in question are analogous to those which have no excretory canal, but lymphatic vessels; and which are, in truth, organs of perfective assimilation ; as, the thyroid and thymic glands. tOF physicians OF ioPUBLISHED DUIIING THE LAST TWELVE YEARS. BY T. WILKINSON KING, F.R.C.S., England. S.S.M.C., Neo-Ebor. RELATING TO VARIOUS POINTS OP PHYSIOLOGY, MEDICINE, AND SURGERY, PHYSICAL, HUMORAL, AND NERVOUS AGENCIES IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, AND REMEDIES. Next to the better and rarer sort of treatises, no contributions to medicine are so desirable as clear digests of the scattered views with which the profession abounds and is almost ready to be overwhelmed. It is essential that these analyses should appear under some responsible name. I regard it rather as a matter of casualty that I am the first to appear in the present style instead of the more weary egotism of eight hundred pages; being convinced how self-evident it will be that the interests of useful writers and careful inquirers are equally concerned in the general adoption of such a method. The public is the judge of truthfulness, and posterity the arbiter of originality. Contents:—A. Of General Principles—Etiology, Therapia. B. Nerve-functions, Disorders — Sympathy. C. Circulatory— Heart, Artery, Aneurism, Vein, Lymphatics. D. Respiratory. E. Assimilations, Thyroid Gland, Cancer, &c. F. Digestion, &c. G. Hernia, &c.—Umbilicus. H. Strictures, &c.—Prostate. I. Ossifications, &c. K. Tension, Tendon, Glandulee Pacchioni, &c. OP GENERAL PRINCIPLES. 1. The prime doctrine of medicine appears to be, that health consists in a certain balance of the functions; and, that beyond their salutary oscillations, periodic changes, and mutual correla- tions and compensations, disturbance arises; first in one organ or element, then in another. 2. Diseases have a very definite course, and mostly tend to spontaneous recovery—which judgment aids or error perverts. (Vide First General Laws, &c. London : Churchill, 1840.) 3. Chronic inflammation is acute disease varying (P). 4. The unsteady course of many affections depends on relapse2 from cold, &c.;—one, acute or chronic, alternating with another ; with intervals of recovery. Disorganizations, fixed, balanced. 5. Vis medicatiix is modified correlation or compensation. Habit is the like, and no otherwise a principle. Metastasis is when one part is less favourably circumstanced than another. (Vide Disorders Variable, and Practical Inferences hence dedu- cibio r:-: -' ' ip. Rep., No. xi.) d. me rudimentary idea of Irritation (whether as cause or pro- cess of disorder) should vary with the health and constitution,—as when an injured part repairs or inflames, or when acn4 fluctuates. Catarrh, secretory irritation, nutrition, or absorption, occur, accord- ing to the state of the blood. Pain, scald, and extravasated faeces, cause distinct processes. There are no simple sympathies. Worms are mostly harmless. The tongue, nares, skin, anus, gums, cough, &c., indicate chiefly the dispositions of the blood, for nutritions, &c. Epigastric blows, shocks, brain and spine irrita- tions, vomiting, excito-motion, hysteria, and ischuria, when analysed, are evidently compound processes, (Vide Irritation, Med. Gaz., 1843.) 7. See also, Constitutional Irritation, or General Disturbance. (Ibid. 1843-4.) Introductory considerations—a plan of the rela- tion of the animal functions. Humoral agencies and their advo- cates. Varieties of assimilation,—all changes in the blood. The influence of the generative functions, of exercise, of the capillaries, and of the arteries, &c., tending to disease and recovery. 8. How to analyse the varieties of irritation, which depend on the blood, as cachexi®, fevers, and repairs ; also inflammation ; its differences, local and general. (Ibid, Jlajf, 1844.) 9. Organizable (?) deposits are but gro^vths.—Symmetry in disease is hunaoral, &e. We may go far to analyse depression, and sympathies, general and contiguous, &c. (Ibid. June, 1844, two papers.) 10. Local Inflammation not so much a cause as a concomitant of fever; analysis of Louis’morbid anatomy of typhus. JTl}ere_\ j ^re preparatory deteriorations of the body for fevers in every I 1 various gradej_js also for inflammations. (Vide Humoralism in / I Fever, Inflammation, and Irritation, ibid., July, 1844.) 11. The course of foreign bodies shut up in our tissues, or tra- velling, or being discharged, depends much on the bodily health, the state of the blood, &c. (Vide Story of a Grain of Sand, to illustrate the study of Practical Pathology, Prov. Med. Sur. Journal, Aug., 1844.*) BEE THE DOCTRINE OF TENSION (iNFRA.) GENERAL ETIOLOGY AND THERAPIA. 12. Besides the admitted effects of Cold on the bodies of ani- nals and vegetables, and in common chemistry, much remains » A peculiarity in this case was a persistent dry sinus leading to the se- •, '.ded solid, which was finally cast out by the accumulation of skm-scales n the cell.3 to be considered. The heat, the pulse, and the want of safety- valve, seem to maintain pretty equal proportions. Heat depends on many different functions, not on one. We discover five influ- ences from cold which affect the course of health, disease and remedies, specifically. States of the nerves, congestions, delay of functions, reaction (irregular) diathesis, fever, wasting irritation. (Influences of Cold, Med. Gaz., June, 1843.) 13. Five effects of Heat. In delicate health easy play of the functions needful. Exciting the superficial functions of the body tends to lessen nutrition and secretion within. We may dissect the influence of warm-bath, clothing, and the course of sudden relapses. Many cases beiiefitted by warmth, others oppressed. (Influences of Heat, ibid., July, 1843.) 14. Warmth liberates vital and chemical functions. Warm climates excite the surface most, abstract internal stimulus ; hence, internal diseases are less frequent and more rapid, whether fatal or not, and great injuries are better repaired. Infants, the aged, and delicate, and those who have lost half a viscus, much safer in warm countries. (See Climate, with reference to Health and Disease, Prov. Med. Journ., July, 1843.) 15. The Capillaries furnish all nutrition and secretion, the nature of which depends much on the blood, which varies conti- nually, consistently with health, the essence of disease, or the means of recovery. Many nervous fallacies. The blood regu- lates absorption, or arrests secretion, and balances the functions after perversions. (Vide Humoralism of Therapeutics, ibid., De- cember, 1843.) 16. The nature and treatment of toothache are explained by reference to its causes, the variable state of capillaries, and their correlating and compensatory acts. The effects of drinks, pos- ture, temperatures, inflammatory relapse, the time of digestion, abstinence, depletion, and of remedies,—locally, or through the blood, or through the nerves (P). (Vide Common Toothache, as illustrative of General Principles in Pathology and Therapeutics, Med. Gaz., Jan., 1842.) NERVE-FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS. SYMPATHY, 17. The vessels of the Head most delicate, and least distended. The face influenced by exposures. Hence many peculiarities in head diseases. Hacmorrhagies are atrophies, and so variable lupu.s, &c.; yet all normal nutritions arc equal. (Practical lie- flections, ibid., Nov., 1844.) 18. The sensibility of viscera little or none. Headache often (P only) external. Lesions of sensitive brain tracts are referred to the peripheral distributions of the several nerves. (Seat and Import of Headache, ibid., December, 1844.) 19. Aura, numbness and pain, in considerable variety, hemi- phlegic or not, with injury, hysteria, chorea, e])ilepsy, apoplexy, or palsy, depend on lesions of sensitive nerve-tiacts in the hemis-phere of cerebrum, or in their course from thence. (Med. Times, December, 1844; January, 1845.) 20. The cortex, commissure, and intergyral fibres, remain to intelligence (?). 21. Palsy is compression subalation or division of motor cord. 22. Capillary disorder (hypernutrient P) of motor brain fibres approaching the pons varolii by crus cerebri or cerebelli, or beginning in the pons, is the cause of convulsions. One nerve or spinal marrow may so convulse parts below. Many examples of disease of cerebrum encroaching on the pons on one side, first causing convulsions of the opposite limbs,* and then of the whole body. 23. The same as to cerebellum. 24. Disorders in the pons, causing general convulsions. (See the Seat of Convulsions, &c., 2 papers; Medical Times, October, November, 1844.) 25. On reflex nervous acts, and their disturbances, and the more probable parts of nervous sympathies. (Ibid., July, 1844.) Physics and humoralism limit nervous theories. Muscles act from distension, or reflex agency or volition. The co-ordinating cords of sympathetic motions are gathered up in the medulla oblongata; and the lower segments of the marrow have no excito- motory power in man. The generalizers of reflex ac ts—views of Whytt, Mayo, Hall. Simple and reflex acts—direct or doubtful. Medulla oblongata. Exclusion of spinal cord, whose columns have various functions. (Ibid.) The reflex centres apart from brain. Whytt, Alison, Hall. General doctrine of excito-motory influences simple; and derange- ments also. Sympathies not excito-motory. (Ibid.) Induction quoad old sympathies weak—Mayo’s reflex acts in the iris—Bell, Muller. Each part of a reflex arc may err. Pro- portion needful between causes and effects. Arcs only partially over the body; so should the diseases be—vomiting, asthma—real cause of Convulsions. (Ibid, and Lancet, September, 1844.) Excito-motion in inverse proportion to the grade and matu- rity of the animal. 26. I have ventured to show that the sympathies of Hunter and Charles Bell may be referred variously to excito-motion, humoralism, and simple lesion of nerve-cords, in whatever parts of their course. Contiguous capillary sympathy I make to be humoral. I do not deny that some sympathy may yet be esta- blished. (Prov. Med. Journ., Dec., 1813. Med. Times, May, 1843.) 27. Lesions of the summit of the spinal marrow retard respira- tion and the pulse. Excessive safety-valve may cause slow pulse P (Cfises, &c., Lancet, March, 1845.) Causes of paraplegia in intervertebral substance. (Medical Gazette, 1844.) * The anterior lobe, the leg'; the posterior, the arm.CIRCULATION :—A. PHYSI0LOGT ; B. PATHOLOGY, &C. 28. A. The corded valves of the heart require that the blood should throw back the curtains, and make the cords tense, and even elongate their conic muscles, before the latter can duly contract; and this action compensates for systolic approximation of the ventricular walls. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 10.) 29. Where the valves of the heart are more than equal to the opening they close up, the curtains overlap, and present surfaces of contact, whose extent varies with the energy of circulation, and whose diseases, atrophic or inflammatory, are specific. (Ibid.) 30. The lymphatic system is constructed for rapid circula- tion. (Ibid.) 31. The veins pulsate : a bristle applied with gum as a lever is visibly raised by a full vein. Med. Gaz., vol. xviii., p. 530.) 32. The tricuspid is a safety-valve. The thin wall of the right ventricle yields to temporary distensions, and the valve is retracted out of place. This effect increases from birth, and varies throughout the series of warm-blooded animals, being greatest in the divers, which also have the greatest reservoir vessels. (Guy’s Hos. Rep., No. 4 and 10; read before the Royal Society, 1835 & 6.) 33. White patches on the heart indicate points of projection, attrition, and inflammation, &c. (Guy’s Hosp. Reports, No. 6.) 34. The ductus arteriosus at birth, may owe its closure to sud- den compression over the left bronchus. Analogy in' Reptilia. (Medical Gazette, July, 1840.) 35. B. Fatal bleedings occur soon after ligature. Late bleed- ing and tardy ligatures most safe. External formations alone seal the end of tied vessels; uniting the two ends of a vessel by a cord whose centre first holds the ligature. Collateral circulation, a simple necessary result of obstructing and weakening vessels. Analogies between different cases of dilating arteries, physiolo- gical and pathological. The Hunterian method of tying vessels was not with cutting ligatures, and not the less secure. Great vessels closing sponta- neously. Scarpa, Bell, and Cramplon, &c., for gentle ligatures. Mere diminished distension leads aneurisms to subside j—clot only in the way. Why Brasdor’s operation succeeds or fails. How a considerable artery declines with a change of current (clots organizing ?). General doctrine of tensions in health and disease. Ligatures indispensable, or not; other resources. (Medical Gazette, January, May, 1846.) 36. The open states of the ductus arteriosus after birth are caused by obstructed pulmonary artery, or lungs, and narrowings of the aortic orifice, or arch. (London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, July, 1842.) 37. From similar causes also Communications between the two sides of the heart arise. (Two papers, Med. Gaz.> January, 1811.)38. Cases of Cerebral Aneurism. (Medical Quarterly Review, 1834.) Aorta and Pulmonary Artery Transposed, (London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, January, 1844.) 39. The left bronchus flattened by dilatation of the left auricle. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 6.) 40. The nature and treatment of Angina pectoris illustrated by considering the physiology of violent circulation; the influences of repletion, senile changes of the heart, and of its valves; their surfaces of contact perforated or shrunken. Different states of different parts explain varieties of the disease. The pains shown to be of various kinds, and the distresses. 41. Palpitation of either ventricle alone, or of both—over-full, and labouring, with or vdthout hypertrophy. The cause, fulness, debility, or passing disorder of health, &c. See the treatment of Dyspncea, infra. (Four papers. Medical Gazette, 1841.) Simple vascular growths confined to the left auricle ? Cases— No capillary formations in the aorta or its ventricle. Adherent pericardium harmless. Statistics — Rationale of variable cardiac obstruction. (Lancet, 1845.) RESPIRATORY DISORDERS, &C, 42. The bifurcations of bronchi are kept open by crescent-car- tilages. (Dr. Horner and Mr. J. King, Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 11.) 43. Dyspncea to be analysed. Derangements increasing with age ; inspiratory effort and fatigue ; besoin de respirer ; suffoca- tion; causes of dyspnoea various; the base of lungs partly in reserve; the effects of congestion, posture, repletion, exertion, cold, spasm (.p), often combined; dyspnoea, with malformed hearts or bronchial obstructions. Here, and in angina, we see the mechanisms, the humours, and the nerves deranged, and remedies must unite a like triple application. Medical Gazette, 1841. 44. Summer Asthma, catarrhus aestivus, or hay-fever—general disturbance, with local obstruction, capillary, &c. Many ana- logous affections. (Medical Gazette, August, 1843.) Sources of haemoptysis, various and special. (Ibid., 1843.) PERFECTIVE ASSIMILATION, THYROID, CANCER. 45. The thyroid gland, composed of cells, arranged in flat lobules, irregularly conapressed on the trachoea in deglutition, &c., secretes albumen, which is seen to pass away by the lymphatics. (Comparative Anatomy, &c., T. W. King, and Sir A. Cooper, Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1836.) The doctrine of perfective assimilation, by spleen, thymus, lym- phatic glands, &.c. (Ibid.) Cancels. Of females dying about forty-four, near one half have some cancer. Of males, one eighth. Late in life, still more. Species of cancers—different stages of constitution. Tables, &c. (Medical Gazette, August, 1845. Medical Times, March, 1816.)STOMACH, &C. 46. There are various effects of gastric juice after death on the oesophagus, as well as on the left end of the stomach, which part is the especial source of the acid and digestive secretion. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1842, 43 and 46 ; and Medical Gazette.) In the stomach, &c., after death, wherever gastric fluid touches, the natural aspect of surfaces declines, decreasingly from left to right, including the adjacent oesophagus and duodenum. Injection, erchymosis, discoloration, and solution of mucus and tunics, are thus very precisely determined, both in extent and degree. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1846.) HERNIA, &c. 47. Most Herniffi exist fifteen or thirty years before serious s’rangulations, which are not attributable to any new state of the sac, but to deteriorated nutritions and powers of vessels, &c,, inci- dent to the age (45 the mean). Hence, also, the peculiar course of the disorder, locally and generally. Prompt surgery and gentle measures, locally and generally, are the grand indications. The ageof serious strangulations less than that of fatal cases. Various statistics prove the like, and the kind of local and visceral changes do also. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1838. Med. Gaz.,1843.j 48. Persistent diverticulum ilii, discharging at the umbilicus, &c. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1843.) Anal Muscles. (Ibid., No. 11.) STRICTURES, &C. 49. The spasm of urethral stricture is injection and tumefaction ; thickening, contraction, and induration, are results. Mostly there is a combination of these states, one set being essentially variable, the rest permanents and the main treatment should be constitu- tional. 50 The doctrine of variable diseases explains, as it is illustrated by, old prostate disease, which is catarrhal and recurrent. The mean length of stricture (fixed) is full an inch and a half. The bulb is the chief centre. Instruments cause cicatrices, but cannot dilate them perma- nently—why they cannot seal up the canal; statistics of stricture— age—duration—end—sites, &c. Capillary injection (action, &o.) subsiding spontaneously, or with medicine, physiological. (The Nature and Treatment of Urethral Strictures, and Mischiefs of the Sound, four papers. Lancet, 1843-4.) Urinary Obstruction in the Foetus, (Guy’s Hos. Reports, No. 5.) OSSIFICATION, &C. 51. The repair of fracture is like that of grazed bone, or the course of exostosis, or even the mere growth of bone. The main supply of blood is from without, which, in about four or five days, deposits new bone on the old, and finally welds fragments (as dis- tinct bones) together. In the repair of a stump, cancer of bone, or8 hydatid,&c., bone upon bone, as earth abounds in the blood or not, is the rule quoad new bone. Pressures and attrition also guide the degree of activity. There may be too little or too much action, deposit, or absorbtion. Ossific cancer is specific; in the lung, and all parts. Periostitis begins almost as soon as the injury has been inflicted. The figure of the reuniting bone guided by periosteum, tension, &c. (Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery, “ Fracture,’’ \ppendix.) Open fracture (compound) repairs by the simplest modifications of the above process. Peculiarities as to flat bones ; cancelli, neck of femur, epiphysial arteries, ueck of scapula. (Ibid., and Guy’s Hospital Reports, October, 1844.) The periosteum, original, or derived from granulation, adhesion, or cicatrization, is the chief source of the nutrition and repair of bone ; bone upon bone increasing till the fragments are cemented by new bone, and till motion and strain cease to excite activity. Old bone, inflammation and earth in the blood, are the essentials. Absorption removes that which lacks tension, and what is unduly pressed, or too feebly nourished. (Ut supra). Patella broken across, and united by bone. (Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. 13.) Episternal bones. (Ibid., No. 11.) TENSION : A FUNDAMENTAL OB PEIMART VITAL AGENT, PHYSIOLOGICAL, &C. 62. Tension has to do with the growth, excavation, repair, and wasting of bone—with its form, and that of each cancellus. To it I refer the ligamentous reunion of divided muscle, tendon, or liga- ment, as occasionally of bone. It explains the order of initiative ossifications throughout the foetal body, and that of the consolida- tion of the various epiphyses of the bones (excepting the effects of breadth of union-surface, «&c). It seems equally to affect the tunics of bones, nerves, vessels, ducts, and organs. Fasciae, elastic tissues, and diseases. Varix is undue daily tension, and defective nightly repair. Med. Gaz., April, 1844. Med. Chir. Rev., Oct., 1844.) The decline of tension, or even excessive tension, accounts for isolations of parts of bones. (Prov. Med. Journ., Aug., 184.3.) Calvarian Pits, and Dura Matral Ridges, and fossulm produce Glandulm Pacchioni, with peculiar Tensions. Granulation always minus as to tension. (See Physiological and Pathological Ten- sions, &c., Med. Gaz., July 3, 1846.) 36, Bedford-square, December 1st, 18t6. A, OOUIDINO, PRINTER, 11, SOUTH-STREET, WEST'SaUARE, SOUTUWABK.