\ — * -4» . .. • . ■* 'OF THE THEORY AND PRACTIC O F * • MODERN SURGERY, t - * ARRANGED IN A NEW NOSOLOGICAL AND SYSTEMATIC METHOD, Different from any yet attempted in Surgery. IN THE FORM OF A DIALOGUE, By HUGH MUNRO, Surgeon. \ % * PRESIDENT OF THE CHIRURGO-PHYSICAL AND EXTRA- ORDINARY MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETIES OF EDINBURGH. Qui dubitat, qui fcepe rogat, mea diEla ienebit; Is qui nil dubitat, nil capit inde boni. LONDON: PRINTED BY E. HODSON, BELL-YARD, TEMPLE-BAR) FOR W. RICHARDSON, ROYAL-EXCHANGE) AND SOLD BY A. GUTHRIE, SOUTH-BRIDGE-STREET, EDINBURGH. M.DCC.XCII, sV* .4 ^H-4,33 # I. T O * I < ALEXANDER MONRO, M. D. PROFESSOR of ANATOMY and SURGERY, IN THE UNIFERSITT OF EDINBURGH. SIR, ♦ AuTHORS in general are fond of having great names prefixed to their labours. The diftinguifhed rank you hold in your profeffion renders you, therefore, a pro- per patron for fuch an undertaking as this. The candour and liberality of fentiment for which you are fo eminently confpicuous in the medical world, encourages me to lay thefe fheets before you. Their meet- ing with your approbation will fully com- penfate for the labour beftowed on them. * Hoping( iv ) \ ' # Hoping this feeble effort may not feem un~ worthy of your attention, and that it may contribute fomewhat to the advancement of furgical knowledge. I am. Sir, / With the utmoft regard, . - Your very humble Servant, H. MUNRO. #M-.<33 PREFACE. It is fomcwliat furp riling, that amongft the many Syftems of Surgery that have made their appearance in the world, fo very few have been attempted to be ar- ranged into a Svftematic Order of Claffi- O J fication. This defect feems to have pro- ceeded either from an opinion, that no fuch arrangement was necelfary, or from i the idea, that it was impracticable, in this •* branch of fcience at lead. That the former of thefe opinions is erroneous, will be readily granted by every perfon who reflects for a moment on the great advantages of order and method in other branches of fcience ; by which not only much circumlocution and trifling i tau-PREFACE. : 6 . . / tautology are avoided, but the principles / 4k of the fcience itfelf more eafily, as well as more firmly, jmprefTed upon the mind of the fludent; who without thefe is apt to be difgufted at the maze of confufion in which he is otherwife unavoidably in- volved. And the latter idea is equally groundlefs from the excellent attempts that have been made towards a methodical ar- , #' rangement of thofe difeafes that fall pro- perly under the care of the furgeon, by the celebrated Sagaii and Sauvages. The Author of this Work hopes he (hall not be accufed of prefumption in endea- vouring to improve upon the plan of thefe great men. The difcoveries and improve- $ ments in modern furgery have of late been fo numerous and important, as to render feme alteration in the arrangement of Chirurgical Difeafes not only juftifiable, but abfolutely neceffary. How far he has fucceeded in making this attempt the pub- lic>\jn • 4 *(33 PREFACE. 7 lie will determine. While he has endea- voured to reduce Surgery to a regular fyftem he has adopted the method that ap- peared molt natural, and at the fame time ftudied to exprefs himfelf in terms as ex- plicit as poffible. For, although, in ar- ranging the different Orders and Genera, he could not avoid the formation of new r ;" , . ( words, yet he humbly hopes thefe will be found more apt to accelerate than to re- tard the progrefs of the ftudent; as they are not only free from ambiguity, but comprehenfively expreiTive of the meaning affixed to them. And in deferibing the dif- ferent fpecies of each Genus, as well as the principal varieties of each Species, he has given them a complete definition and effential chara&er, a concife and accurate view of their different fymptoms, diagnofis, remote praedifponent and proximate caufes, with their prognofis, and the beft and molt effectual method of cure, as collefled from theI 8 PREFACE. the writings and obfervations of the moll celebrated furgeons in Europe. It is a complaint not altogether ground- lefs, that, in moft chirurgical works of any length, the proper method of cure is fo blended with defcriptions of ancient and mo- dern theories, interfperfed with the re- marks of their refpeflive authors upon them, that a young praftitioner is often at a lofs which of them to adopt. To obviate this difadvantage arifing from the perufal of more voluminous fyftems (which often ferve to perplex and confound rather than indraft the young and ignorant), nothing but the mod celebrated theories and modes of treatment, and the moft approved chi- rurgical operations, are here defcribed and recommended. And in order to imprefs them the more eafily upon the . memory, and render them familiar to the Undent, they are thrown into the form of dialogue, recom-\ v PREFACE. g or rather catechifm, by which young fur- f ( geons, for whofe improvement this work is chiefly intended, may be enabled mutu- ally to catechife and inftruct each other. The advantages arifmg from fuch exer- cifes, have been already in home degree experienced, and known to be attended with the bell effe&s. In a fociety, lately inftituted at Edinburgh, under the title of the Chirurgo-Phyjical, be (ides two papers on medical fubjefts, a chirurgical quejiion is difcuffed at every meeting, to the great improvement of its members ; feveral of * * whom, now pracliling in different parts of the globe, have acknowledged that they have received more inllruclion from the difcufiion of thefe quefiions, than from the / folitary perufal of whole volumes. This form of-queftion and anfwer ren- ders the work .alfo a very proper compa- nion for fuch as mean to be examined at Sur-10 P R E F A C E. Surgeons-Hall, or before any of the fenior burgeons, by qualifying them to give diftindl and proper anfwers upon every fubjedt in furgery. Many apothecaries too, who, though they have not been regularly bred, are neverthelefs often confulted by their pa- tients, and who cannot be fuppofed to have time to perufe larger works, it is prefumed, will find their account in confulting this Syflem. For the benefit however of fuch as have leifure and inclination to confult larger works upon particular fubjefts, and in order to facilitate their progrefs in their ftudy of furgery, the fynonima of every fpecies and variety of difeafe adopted by the moft celebrated authors are fubjoined as notes, in the order of their arrange- In a word, the Author humbly hopes the work will be found ufeful to all who wifh to be pofleffed of a complete, concife, and11 ■ i i PREFACE. and comprehenfive fyftem of modern fur- gery, as he prefumes it exhibits in a very fmall compafs a more extenfive knowledge of the Art of Surgery than can be found in any publication of its fize that has yet made its appearance in this country. / 9I \ ADVERTISEMENT. On Accfourit of the unavoidable neceffity of the Author's abfence from the Prefs> and his being deprived of the opportunity of feeing the work until the whole was thrown off, a few errors have unfortu- nately crept in. A work of this kind having a number of technical terms the Author humbly hopes a candid and generous public will make the neceffary allowance, and obferve the Errata at the end. . *>/ * DEFINITION \ OF THE CLASSES, ORDERS, and GENERA. • • . / , % CLASS I. T U M 0 R E S. When the fize of any part of the animal body is increafed by any caufe beyond the natural \ date. o Qrd. I. ACUTUS. Tumours rapid in their growth, for the mod part attended with pain, and requiring an imme- diate cure. Gen. I. SUPPURANS. Tumours readily running into fuppuraxion. Gen*Gen. Gen. II.* PHLOGISTICA. Inflammatory tumours which can feldom or never be brought into a proper ftate of fuppura- tion, and whofe refolution muft in every cafe be attempted, terminating in a thin acrid difcharge of ferum, not convertible into proper pus. « * Gen. III. FLATUOSA. Tumours containing chiefly air. • Ord. II. ENCYSTIS. . Tumours completely furrounded with a cover- ing or cyft. Gen. IV. HYDROPS. Encyfled tumours containing water. Gen. V. PURIFORMIS. Encyfted tumours whofe contents are pus. Gen. VI. SANGUINEA. Encyfted tumours whofe contents are blood. Gen. VII. PULTACEA. Encyfted tumours containing matter of a pul- taceous conftftence. ✓ i ’ Ord. III. ECTOPIA. Tumours occafioned by a change of fituation of fome parts of the folids of the body.,-•1 • 4 ,aa i * / ( *5 ) Gen. VIII. HERNIA. Tumours occafioned by a difplacement of fome parts of the bowels through feme of the outlet paflages of the abdomen, and covered ** with a partial cyft of the peritoneum. Gen. IX. PROLAPSUS. Tumours occafioned by a naked difplacement of any part vifible to the eye, and without any partial covering. Gen. X. LUXATIO. A difplacement of the bones occalioning tu- mour attended with a laceration of ligaments. Ord. IV. CHRONIC US. Tumours flow in their growth, not attended with pain, and not running into fuppuration. Gen. XI. GLANDULOSA. Tumours chiefly affefting the conglobate i j / Gen. XII. CARNEA. Tumours of a flefliy confiftence. Gen. XIII. CALLOSA. Tumours of a firmer confiftence than flelh, and fofter than bone. Gen. XIV. OSSEA. I »'* ' S' Tumour of the nature of bone. CLASSGen. APOCENOSES. Morbid difcharges of any kind of fluid from the body in greater quantity or oftener than ufuah Ord. I. HEMQRRHAGIA. Difcfiarses of blood. O' Gen. XV. TRAUMATICA. Difcharges of blood occafioned by fome local caufe. Gen. XVI. SYMPTOMATICA. Difcharges of blood occurring in different parts of the body and not arifing from a local caufe. Ord. II. • ULCUS. Difcharges of various kinds of matter different from blood, from old wounds, &c. Gen. XVII. PURIFLUXUS. Ulcers difeharging pus. Gen. XVIII. VISCIDA. Ulcers difeharging tough matter thicker than pus.Gen. ^ MH • 4 .QQ C 17 3 Gen. XIX. ICHORA. Ulcers difcharging a thin red acrid matter cor* roding the neighbouring parts. , Gen. XX. SANIES. Ulcers difcharging matter of a thin greenifh acrid nature. Ord. III. SECERNENDA. Difcharges from increafed fecretions. Gen. XXI. SERIFLUXUS. 1 Secretions of a ferous nature. Gen. XXII. MUCOSA. Secretions of a mucous nature from mucous furfaces. 1 CLASS III, VITIA. Faults arifing from a change in the habit, num- ber, order, or other qualities of the folids ap- pearing on the furface of the body fo as to be vifible to the eye or internally, impairing the general health, occafioning deformity, and feme- times attended with death. Ord. I. DYALITICA> Arifing fr^m a lofs of continuity.Gen. ' [ i8 ] Gen. XXIII. CRUENTA. Lofs of continuity attended with an effufion of blood and a drvifion of the correfponding inte- guments. Gen. XXIV. INCRUENTA. / t Lofs of continuity not attended with an effufion of blood or wound in the correfpond- ing integuments. Gen. XXV. CUTANEUS. Lofs of continuity not deeper than the fkin. Gen. XXVI. ESCHARA. Divifion of a part in the form of an efchar. Gen. XXVII. NATURALIS. Natural lofs of continuity. Ord. II, OBSTRUCTIO. An impediment to the reception or difcharging of any kind of matter into or from the body. Gen. XXVIII. CONSTRICTURA, When the diameter of any of the natural paffages is diminifhed by fpafmodic affeftions, See. Gen. XXIX. VERSICOLOR. When obftru&ion is occafioned merely from > * a change of colour. Gen. XXX. IMPERFORATUS. When any of the natural paffages are imper- vious from birth. 3’ M- t *9 ] Gen. XXXI. CONCRETIO. When parts have grown together in confe- quence of inflammation. Ord. III. DISTORTIO. Having a bend to one fide, occafioning de- formity either in the foft parts or in the bones, Gen. XXXII. MUSCULOSA, When the deformity is owing to mufcular contraction. Gen. XXXIII. OSSIFICA. When a deformity is occafioned from a fault in the bones. CLASS s*v p| V'H • U . £Q (' *7 ) % '' . _ , / GLASS I. \ T U M O. R E .S. Ord. I. A C U T U S. I * / ‘ Gen. I. SUPPURANS, PHLEGMONE* Q. i. What is a Phlegmone ? > A. It is a fpheroidal tumour, attended with heat, rednefs, pain, quick and hard pulfe, tenfion, and a degree of pyrexia f, when it is confiderable; upon ex tracing blood it always {hews an inflammatory crufl. ’ >' - .' . O. 2. In what manner does Phlegmone ter* minate ? *• * Phlegmone, Linnceus, Sagariis, Sauvagejtus, et CulUhus. i Fehris Inflammatoria, Hoffman. Morbus acutus fe- brihs, Boerhaave, Morbus febrilis phlogifticus, Linnceus. c A. Upon4 / 18 Acute Tumours. A. Upon the whole of the fymptoms; (Q. l.) fubfiding, and the tumour difcufling. It is faid to terminate by rcfolution, when the fymptoms continue for fome time to advance, and a quantity of ferum is thrown out by the inflamed veflels ; which liquor is again converted into a mild white thick matter, named Pus. The afledtion is then faid to terminate by Suppuration. But when the fymptoms Hill continue to advance, and the tumour fhows no tendency either to refolu- J tion or fuppuration, and the tone of the part at laft comes to be deftroyed, Gangrene is faid to take place. . When a portion of the gangrenous part begins to feparate from the found. Sphacelus is {aid to take place. When neither of thefe occur, and a gland has been inflamed for fome time, an indolent hardnefs enfues, and the affeftion is faid to terminate in Schirrhus. , ^ • ' . ■ Q. 3. I low is Phlegmone difanguijhedfrorii Foryfip das? ] A, In Phlegmone the tumour is more circumfcribed and prominent; it proceeds deeper in the. fkin : its contents, when fup-0.5, What is the proximate caufe of Phleg- I 'vjri y4a^i? Tumours. 19 fuppuration takes place, are generally pus, whereas in Eryfipelas the difcharge is thin and acrid, and the fwelling more diffufcd and O. 4. What are the remote caufes of Phleg- » * mone ? A. All ftimuli, whether chemical or me- chanical, a£iing either on the fluids or folids of the body, applied either externally to the furface of the body, or taken internally. A plethoric ftate of the fyftem at the time may, in every cafe, be confidered as a predifpofing caufe* ♦ mone ? A. The proximate caufe of Phlegmons is that of inflammation in general. A vari- ety of theories have been advanced to explain it; fuch as, a partial debility of the ' part, which, being in a weaker hate than the reft of the fyftem, a congeftion of blood takes place, from which the tenfion, rednefs, and pain, proceed. Another theory has been given, viz* that a Lextor of the Fluids c 2 tal^es fuperficial20 Acute Tumours. \ takes place, and occafions an obflruflion of the veflels of the part. Others again alledge, that it depends on an error loci; that red globules are pufhed forwards in veflels intended only to convey ferum. Others a^ain imagine it to be owingr to a Spasmo- dic Constriction affe&ing the extreme veflels : all of which theories are liable to many objections. The method ol cure, however, feems to correfpond better with the latter. O. 6. What Prognous Ian be given of In- flammation in general? ,U Cl «. 0 A. The Prognous mull be always more or Jefs favourable, in proportion to the extent and fituation of the Inflammation; and to its ter- % minating either by refolution or fuppuration. Any of thefe terminations, occurring on the furface of the body, a favourable prognous may be given, particularly if it is not exten- five, and the degree of pyrexia moderate. But, when the bowels are any way inflamed, or when the fymptoms run fo high as to threaten mortification, even on the furface of theAcute Tumours. 21 * * f' the body, the Prognous fhould be always v 4 * ' * ). * Y , ' * •ju;pi r 1 . * au :•— O. 7. What is the mojl proper method of treating Phlegmone? A. The mode of treatment mull be that of inflammation in general; to endeavour as much as poflible, to effeft a refolulion, (O. 2.) by a ftri£l antiphlogiflic regimen, to promote fuppuration, (O. 2.) if we fail in ' difc tiffing it; and, when we fail in both, to endeavour to mitigate or obviate the fymp- toms of gangrene, from proceeding to too great a heighth. O. 8. What are the principal articles of the Antiphlogific Regimen ? A. The principal article of it is, a removal of all the remote caufes, (O. 4.) and parti- cularly plethora, which being a predifponent caufe, is to be obviated by bloodletting, both . general and topical. Stimuli of all kinds,, tending to mcreafe the aRionoithe fan over ferous fyfteng or to hurry refpiratiory, owing . be avoided; fuch as the motion 01c air being and external heat, inftead of this guarded.22 Acute Tumours. aftringent applications to the part are to be ufed. The podure of the body that employs lead of its mufcles is to be chofen. Avoid- ing the dimulus of third is particularly ne- ceflary, by drinking plentifully of cooling acefcents and diluent liquors. Purging alfo, as it tends to obviate plethora, and to re- move codivenefs, which in every cafe mud prove dimulant to the fydem, becomes a ne- ceffary article of the antiphlogidic regimen. A vegetable diet is alfo to be ufed during the whole courfe of the affeftion. O. 9. How is the operation of Blood-letting executed ? A. Both furgeon and patient are to be feated in a proper light, when it can be ob- tained, or when the patient is in bed. When this cannot be procured, proper candles are to be ufed. Then the vein is to be elevated by producing an accumulation of blood in it, by the application of a proper bandage, to be belied with fuch lightnefs as to prevent the or wH die veins from retiring into the heai t; threaten rftrait as to obdruft the circulation °s. An incifion is now to be madec 4 O. 10. made in an oblique dire&ion, neither longi- tudinal along the vein, nor direftly acrofs it. After the furgeon has placed his thumb an >*inch and half below the ligature, he is to pafs the point of his lancet gradually for- ward. into the vein ; as foon as he is fenfible, from the want of refiflance, that he has got fairly within it, he makes the incifion oblique- ly forward and withdraws the inflrument. As foon as the quantity of blood wifhed for is extracted, the ligature is to be flackened, and the edges of the orifice cleared from' any particles of blood that may adhere t° the vein. They are to be applied in the clofeft manner, and retained in that ftate by a bit of adhefive plaifter, or a bandage, until a ci- catrice is formed. Topical bloodletting is executed by the application of leeches, as near as poffible to the part affefted, or by a fcarificator, or an inflrument with a num- \ her of lancets afcled upon by a fpring. As ' loon as the wound is made by thele, a cup, exhaufted of its atmofpheric air, applied over die orifices, makes them bleed freely, owing to the.p'refTure of the atmolpheric air being taken off.24 Acute Tumours. O. 10. After Reflation has become imprac- tible, how is Suppuration effected ? A. To promote a Suppuration, a quite contrary plan mull be adopted. The appli- cation of external heat, by means of warm poultices, to the part, feems elfentially ne- celfary, giving the patient at the fame time a full diet, and cordials, if the difcharge in attempting a refolution has been confiderable. Alforubbingat the fame time greafy fubflances on the furface of the inflamed part, to prevent the admifiion of the cool air, becomes a ne- ceffary article in promoting fuppuration. * * \ ■ • - ~ * Q.ii. When the fymptoms run high, fo as neither to yield to fuppuration or refolution5 how are the *fymptoms of approaching Mortu fication to be mitigated ? A. When the inflammation runs exceed* ingly high, and no limits have been as yet fixed, To as to determine how far it may pro- ceed, the general fymptoms are to be miti- gated, by blood-letting. But here great caution is neceifary ; for when the progrefs of the inflammation is known with certainty, further evacuations are to be prevented, and RichAcute Tumours. 25 1 fuch remedies, as tend mod powerfully to fupport the vis vitce are to be attempt- ed ; fuch as wine, a nourifhing diet, and as ** much bark as the ftomach can bear, at pro- per mtervals. Opiates are to be likewife uied, and the application of topical ftimuli to the part, as the volatile alkali. Vegetable acids, have been found to be. of fervice in effecting a reparation of the mortified parts, from the contiguous found parts. As foon as this takes place, the difeafe acquires the name of fphacelus, particularly if any por- tion of mufcle is feparatecl. BUBO* Syn. Inflammation of the Glands. O. 12. What is a Bubo ? •vi' - - » . s . . • . .. , . A. It is a fuppurating tumour of the con- globate glands in the groin, for the mod part ' arifing from "venereal virus, carried by the lymphatics to the part .affected. i '' * ■ c 4: 4 * Bubo, Qauvae.cf-'.wj) Cu!lcms} Sdgarus9 Linnaus*I 26 Acute Tumours. O. 13. In what manner are Buboes to be treated ? A. By tiling a Uriel antiphlogiflic regimen to promote a refolution ; particularly by the application of leeches to the hardened gland. When this fails, the tumour has a ten- dency to fuppuration, it is to be en- couraged by' all the remedies laid down (O. 10.) for phlegmone. In difcuffing ve- nereal buboes, the application of mercurial ointment to the lymphatics of the part has a confiderable effeft, * O. 14. After Suppuration is completely formed, are we to allow the tumours to burjl of themjelves? Or are zee to open them by the knife, or by caufic? • • 4 A. Each of thefe methods have their abet- tors. The application of cauflic feems to be dangerous, from its chance of meeting with fomc of the confiderable blood velfels, which generally lie contiguous to the bubo, and corroding them. Buboes, when opened by the knife, are laid to heal more difficultly, and a fear is generally left behind them. Allowing\ I I • h- Acute Tumours. 27 Allowing them, therefore, to burftof them- ielves, is generally proper, except when the collection is fo confiderable, as to prefs upon ^the neighbouring blood-vefifels. In fuch a cafe, a fmall incifion may be made by the lancet, fo as to allow the contents of the tu- mour to be difcharged, taking care at the fame time, to prevent the admiffion of the external air into the wound, as much as pof- fible. When the edges of the opening grow callous, the application of lunar cauftic to them becomes necelTary. Mercury, joined with opium, is to be ufed during the remain- ing part of the cure. MASTODYNIA* > * Syn. Inflammation of the Breast. O. 15. In a cafe of an Inflammation of the Mammae are we to promote a Suppuration, or attempt a Reflation ? A. In the early flages of the affeftion, re- folution is to be always attempted; but when * Maftodynia, Sauvagefius, Culhn. Maflodynia Phly- jnondes, Cajtrc,28 Acute Tumours. the fwelling feems to have any tendency to fupDuration, a refolution' is never to be at- tempted. The remedies recommended (O.7.) for inflammation in general, feem ufeful in every cure of Inflammation of the Mammae. Only it is to be obferved, that hidden eva- cutions of blood have a tendency to diminifh the milk, if the patient happens to be nurling at the time. Blood, in fuch cafes, is to be extracted in fmal] quantities at a time. The application of cooling faturnine poultices are advifeable. Where fuppuration has how- ever taken place, the matter is to be dif- charged by making an incifion in the moft depending part of the tumour. INFLAMMATIO TESTICULI * ' Syn. Hernia Humorales. O. 16. How is Inflammation of the Tejiicle to be treated ? , *. > A. The remedies’ recommended for the cure of inflammation in general (O. 7.) are * Phlegmone Tefticuli, Rivcrius. Gonorrhoea, in Scrotum Dildpfa, exceedingI % Acute Tumours, 29 exceeding proper in every cafe of inflamed tefticle. When the fwelling arifes from the matter of gonorrhcea being flopped fuddenly • by the ufe of aflringent injection's, nothing fo readily alleviates the complaint, as a re* turn of the diicharge, which is promoted by the application of warm poultices to the penis, ufing alfo at the fame time topical blood-letting. CYNANCHE TONSILLARIS* Syn. Inflammation of the Tonsils. O. 17. How is Inflammation of the Tonfiis to be treated ? , . * _ 1 A. The'method of cure recommended for / inflammation in general (O. 7.) feems equally proper here, particularly topical bloodlet- ting ; which may be executed by an inftru- merit invented for fcarifying the throat. When refolution cannot be effected by then means, fuppuration is to be promoted by th application of warm poultices to the part (fW* * Cynanche Tonfillaris, Sauvagefius. Ijjecies, Boirtiaavz. Synanche, Grcecor, Angina, quarts. ex ter-30 Acute Tumours, externally, and as foon as fuppuratlon is fully formed by thefe means, it is to be difcharged, by making an incilion into the tumour, by the inftrument recommended for fcarifying the throat; and the fore heals readily by an allringent gargle of alum or oak bark. I . HEPATITIS* Syn. Inflammation of the Liver. O. 3 8. How is Inflammation of the Liver diftinguijhcd ? A. There is more or lefs ftomachic affec-* tion produced. There is alfo generally a pain in the region of the liver and top of the Ihoulder, and a yellownefs of the fkin is perceived over all the body. . I O. 19. How is Inflammation of the Liver to be treated ? A. By the remedies already recommended for inflammation in general. (Q. 7.) Mercury * Hepatitis. Sauvagefms, Cullenus, Sagarus, Linrueus, & f^ogelius. Febris I&ercoideus, Galen. Febris Typhoides* Forejl. Inftammatio Hepatitis? LennCrt. Dolor Hypo- chondria dextri, Bonnet. 1 alfo,VJn • H- Acute Tumours. 31 alfo is found to be of confiderable fervice in » removing the inflammation. When fup- puration is however once formed, it is to be treated as abfcefs in general, \ , f V 1 > P'ARULIS* Syn, Gum Boils. O. 20. What are the caujes of Gum Boils ? A. Cold, externa] violence, a fit of the tooth-ach and a portion of the jaw becoming carious. • j O. 21. How are Gum Boils to be treated ? » A. When it arifes from a carious tooth, a removal of it becomes neceffary, in order to effeft a cure. But when the locket is carious, or a portion of the bone itfdf, fuppuration is to be attempted by applying roafled fms to the gums internally, fo as to favour the abfcefs to burft inwardly. In this way exfoliation of the difeafed bone takes place more readily, and the abfcefs afterwards, heals in the common manner. * Puruhs Vogdius, Sagarus. Parulis odontagra, Htxfttr, J^heumiitifmus odontalgicus, lioffman, Gen. II, li » ( 32 5 Gen. II. PHLOGISTIC A. I / r * \ ERYSIPELAS* *S)w. Rose. Q. 22. What is Eryfipelas? A. It is a diffufed red purple fwelling* which fpreads itfelf irregularly over the fkin, attended with a burning heat. Upon apply- ing the thumb, it changes to a white colour upon its being removed, but is immediately lucceeded by the fame red colour again. This fwelling is fometimes faid to fhift its place. It for the moll part terminates in fmall luficles, which difcharge a thin acrid ferum, and which, in the courfe of a few days drop off in fmall fcales. The affec- tion is diflinguifhed from phlegmone by Q-3- Q- 23- What is the bejl mode of treating Eryfipelas ? A. The method recommended for the cure of inflammation in general, is alfo to be at- y » . i- - ' y ‘ * Eryfipelas, SauvagcfiuSj Cullcnus> Vogclius, Sagarur. Rofa, Ignis Sacer; Sermu$, . tempted33 Acute Tumours* tempted in Eryfipelas* Although a refolution cannot be immediately effedied, yet fuppu- ration cannot be in any cafe encouraged, un- \(*J& the fymptoms run fo high as to threaten gangrene ; as experience has proved, that lores of the eryfipelatous kind are more dif- ficult to heal than others. On this account topical bleedings cannot be fo fafely ufed here as in other inflammations* Farinaceous pow- ders are recommended to prevent the acrid ferum difeharged from the veficles from cor- roding the fkin. o PERNIO* Syn. Chilblain. i , ' t Q. 24. What is a Pernio ? A. It is an inflammatory fwelling, of a pur- ple colour, affefting the extremities of the fingers and toes, attended with a flinging pain, and a degree of itching. It fometimes cracks, and difeharges an acrid ferum. At other times a mortification takes place, and an ulcer is produced very unfavourable for the healing;. t ernio, Linnet us, Vcgelius, Blancardus, Sauvagefius. * 6. 25.34 Acute Tumours. Q. 25. What is the caufe of Pernio P A. It is owing to the weaker action of the fmall veffels moft remote from the heart, occafioned by cold or dampnefs, and occur- ring more frequently in people of a delicate conftitution, particularly thofe of a fcrophu- lous nature. O. 26. Ho 10 is Pernio to he treated ? A. When the patient has been fome time expofed to the cold, and the parts are froft- bitten, plunging them immediately into the coldeft water is to be attempted, rubbing them i v o at the fame time with fait. In leffer degrees of the affection, when the parts are only be- numbed, rubbing the fingers with campho- rated fpirits of wine, anfwers equally well; at the fame time avoiding the occafional caufes. But when cracks take place, and an oozing of acrid matter enfues, poultices may be continued for a fhort time only ; as fun- j 7 gous excrcfcences are apt to be formed by too long an application of them. PARO- /i Acute Tumours. * PARONYCHIA* Syn. Whitlow. 'I / « O. 27. What is a Paronychia ? A. It is a painful and burning {welling at the extremities of the fingers, terminating in an effufion of clear feruin bejow the , /. i {kin, which is fometimes fo acrid, as to cor- rode the periofteum, and render the bones carious. At other times the inflammation runs fo high, that the whole. of the arm fwells, particularly the lymphatics; and fometimes even the glands in the axilla. Q. 28. How is a cafe of Paronychia to he treated ? A. When this afFeftion arifes from ex- ternal violence, as from punfclure or con- tufion, the remedies recommended for in- flammation in general, (O. 7.) will be found to be of fervice, When it arifes, however, from unknown cames, the appli- * Paronychia* ' Linn ecus, Sauvagi/ms, Vogelius, Sugar us, Cullenus. D 2 cation36 Acute Tumours. cation of ardent fpirits and aftringents to the part, have been found ufeful, particu- larly when preceded by topical and gene- ral bleedings. But when an effufion of a ferous matter takes place, it is immediately to be difcharged, as it can feldom or ever, by any means in our power, be converted into proper pus. When this ferum has, however, continued for fome time, and the bone has been rendered carious, to effect a complete cure, a removal of the whole bone, or of the carious portion, becomes neceffary. f 1 OPHTHALMIA *. Inflammation of the Eye-Lids and Eye-Ball. Q. 29. What is Ophthalmia ? \ * A. It is a pain, rednefs and fwelling of the eye itfelf, or its membranes, fo as to * Ophthalmia, Sagarus, Linnasus, Vogdius, Ophthalmitcs t hemolisj Vogdius. Pituita, Horalius. Lippitudo, Cel/us. Oculi Inflammatio, Dolor Oculi, Sennert, render$ V d 3 mecha- Acute Tumours. 37 I render it incapable to bear the impreffions I of light, and generally attended with a dif- 1 charge of hot, acrid ferum, from the eye I itfelf. 1 O. 30. What are the caufes of Ophthal- j viia ? I i A. External injuries, extraneous bodies* 1 inferted between the eye-lid and eye itfelf, I afting either nical irritation. Exceffive light; too fre- quent examination of minute bodies ; re- peated intoxication ; irritation produced by other difeafes of the eye itfelf; exceffive heat; the quantity of blood fent to the head increafed, or its return from the head being prevented. Difeafes in other parts of the body, as • the lues venerea or fcro- phula, may be alfo a caufe of ophthalmia. t Q. 31 .In xvhat manner is ophthalmia to be treated ? / A. A removal of the caufes (Q- so-) # • is in every cafe neceffarv to effeCl a cure. VI hen the difeafe depends upon fome ex- traneous body, afting either chemically or by their chemical or mecha-I 38 Acute Tumours. mechanically upon the part, it is to be removed by elevating the eye with a probe, contrived for the purpofe, and bent like a hook. If it happens to be a minute body, as a particle of fand, it is to be wafhed out by water injefted from a frnall fyringe ; as ioon as this is effe&ed, the eye is to be kept clofe for fome time, and a ftridt anti- phlogiftic regimen is neceffary. (Q. 28.) Topical bleedings, particularly about the temples, are found to be of confiderable fervice. Scarifying the turgid vefiels on the fclerotic coat, with a frnall convex fcal- pel, is often attended with the bell effefls, tiling at the fame time cooling and aftrin- gent applications; as faccharum faturni, in the form of watery folution. Opiates alfo are fuccefsfuily ufed to diminifh the morbid fenfibility acquired by the difeafe. It may be topically applied in the form of watery folution, dropped into the eye. Binders, alfo, by removing a plethoric Hate, have been found to be of fome feyvice. Not expofmg the eye to very ftrong lights, and bathing it for feme time in cold wa- ter after the inflammation has fubfided, is 1 faidAcute Tumours. 39. faid to prevent a return of the affeftion. In fome cafes* when ophthalmia has oc- curred periodically* bark has been found to be of fome fervice. • * PHRENITIS*. - ‘ * Inflammation of the Brain. <* o. 32. What is 0, Phrenitis? A. It is an inflamed Rate of the brain or its membranes, attended with exquifite pairf, • inability to bear the imprefiions of light and found, and for the moft part accom- panied by delirium. Q- 33- What are the caufes of Phrenitis? A. External violence, though not attend- ed with a fra ft ure of the bones of the cra- nium, may be' a caufe merely by the com- motion or concuflion irritating it to fuch a degree as to promote inflammation. Por- tions of the cranium beat in upon the dura Phrenitis, Cullenus, Sauvagejius, Sagarus, Linncnis, 1'ogc- hus. PbrcnitiaLs, Cajld. Sphalerus, Qaleni. Cephalitis, Sauva- g.'/iuS' ^ Qpthalmia Sep li.il uca. Baglivi, materAcute Tumours. 40 mater, concuftions attended withfimple frac- ture though not attended with a depreffion of the bone, yet the admilfion of the air through the fifture may be a caufe of in- flammation, where a plethoric (late of the fyftem prevails, that alone may be a caufe of Phrenitis. Poifons taken into the fyftem have alfo this eftefi. \ Q- 34- In what manner is Inflammation of the Brain dfliingufliedfrom concujfion or comprejjion of the brain? A. In an inflamed ftate of the brain the pupils are not dilated, and they are very renfible to the impreflions of light. The pulfe is firm and hard from the firft. It is particularly diftingnifhed from concuflion in its not appearing until feme time after the accident; whereas in concuflion the fymptoms occur immediately upon the in- jury being inflifted. In fome cafes the in- flammation occurs the fecond or third days after the accident, while at other times it does not occur for feveral wepks, when the patient appears dull and ftupid. Naufea ace, he is difturbed in his deep, the loon takes pi in Acute Tumours, 41 1 the face is flufhed, and the eyes are fomewhat inflamed. If a wound is prefent on the cranium an erifipelatous appearance fpreads around it; towards the latter end of the affeflion fubfultus tendinum takes place, together with other convullive affections. O an involuntary difcharge of urine and fasces follows, and death at lafl clofes the fcene. When thefe fymptorns take place without any external injury being the eaxrfe, the nature of the complaint is eafily diftinguifli- ed from compreffion. Q- 35- How is Phrenitis to be cured? A. The fame mode of treatment recom- mended for inflammation in general (O. 7.) is alio proper in a cure of phrenitis. A ftrifl antiphlogiftic regimen is' to be ob- ferved by extrafting blood in fuch quan- tities, and at proper intervals, as the fyftem can bear, from the jugular veins, and by 'leeches applied to the temples. Cathartics as they determine the blood from the head are exceedingly proper. With the fame view pediluvium may be fuccefsfully ufed. The application of cooling faturnine poul- tices 1 1I 42 Acute Tumours. tices to the part, or vinegar rubbed on the head, has been found to be of feme fervice. A large blifter laid over the head, in many cafes, has been found to be of the utmolt ✓ — advantage. PARAPHIMOSIS *. * , t O. 3S. What is a Paraphimojis ? A. It is a retraction of the praeputium penis behind the glans penis, fo that it can- not be drawn over the glans, owing to too great a fulnefs of the glans itfelf, produced by inflammation, occafioned by venereal virus, or any other acrid fubftance lurking behind the glans under the prepuce. Sometimes it may depend upon a ftri&ure of the prepuce itfelf, being enlarged by in- flammation, fo as to obftruCt the circulation in the glans, which occurs fometimes to fuch a degree, as to produce a mortification of it. V O. 37. How is a Paraphimojis cured? A. In the early ftages of the affeftion, * Paraphimofis, Vogclius. merely43 Acute Tumours. A merely prefling the blood out of the glans by the fingers, allows the preeputium to come over the glans, at the fame time ap- plying cooling faturnine applications to the glans. When the fymptoms of inflam- mation ftill proceed, and a mortification is in danger of enfuing from the ftrifture, making a deep fcarification over the ftric- ture by a common lancet generally removes it. - - • t • ' * ' Var. § PHIMOSIS* O. 38. What is a Phimojis? A. It is an inflammatory fwellmg of the prepuce arifrng from the fame caules as that of paraphimofis, occuring to fuch a degree as to render it impofiible to draw the prepuce behind the glans. \ ** ' \ Q. 39. How is a Phimofis cured? 1 »\ A. The fame remedies recommended for inflammation in general are commonly proper here. Fomenting the part with * Phimofis, Sauvagcfius, Linnccus; Vogelius. Phimofis cir- cumligata, AJtruc, warm 1Acute Tumours, 44 warm water and poultices feems to be of confiderable fervice, at the fame time to- pical bleedings are neceffary. When thefe methods fail recourfe is had to a chirurgical operation* \ Q. 40. How is the operation for Phignofs performed? A. By dividing the prepuce longitudi- nally by a knife conduced in a dire&ory, which is to be firft inferted betwixt the pre- puce and glans* Upon withdrawing the knife the operation is executed and the ftrifture removed, 1 Gen. III. FLATUOSA. EMPHYSEMA* Syn. Air swelling of the Thorax. O. 41. What is an Emphyfema? A. It is a diffufed colourlefs elaftic fwell- _ / ing, which, upon prelTure, is attended with a crackling noife. * Emphyfema, SauvagefiuS) Linn ecus. Pneumatofis9Cullenus9 Sagarus} Vogelius: EmpneumatofiSj Aurelian• Hyderos, Galenus•[I? — —.— Acute Tumours. 45 O. 42. What is the caufe of Emphyfema? A. It may arife from a rupture of fome of the air velfels of the lungs, by violent exertions of laughing, crying, coughing; from erofions of the air velfels of the lungs, by ulceration, by the end of a fractured rib pulhed in upon the lungs, or by a broken vertebra. \ O. 43. In, what manner is Emphyfema difinguifhed from a colleElion of other fluids within the thorax? A. By the crackling noife occalioned by it, the rapidity of the fwelling and the bid- den oppreffion of breathing produced. Q- 44- In what manner is a cafe of Em- phyfema to be treated? A. By allowing the air to efcape by fmall incifions made .in the integuments* the fymptoms may be palliated. When this fails a trocar is to be introduced cautioufly - * into the thorax in a llanting direftion, and in fuch a manner as to avoid wounding the lungs. When the air has efcaped through the canula the obliquity of the punfture fervesAcute Tumours, 46 ferves the purpofe of a valve and prevents the admilhon of the external air into the thorax. TYMPANITES* Syn. Air swelling of the Abdomen, Q. 45. What is a Tympanites? A. It is an elaftic colourlefs fwelling, which, upon touching, gives a found fimi- lar to that of a drum, occalioned by fome of the hepatic air of the inteftines efcaping through a rupture of fome of them, by a hole eroded in them, by fome acrid fub- ftance, or lharp pointed body penetrating through them, or by worms. It is eafily diftinguifhed from dropfical fwellings by the weight and want of fluctuation, which is generally obferved in hydropic fwellings. Q. 46. How is Tympanites to be treated? A. By allowing the air to efcape through a fine canula of a fmall trocar, and that in § Tympanites, Sagarus, Cullenus, Vogelius, Linnecus, Sauva- gejius. Tympana, Galenas* Tympanita, Scnncrt. Hydrops ficcus, Hippoc, a gra-'vjn • Acute Tumours. 47 a gradual manner. The trocar is to be in- troduced in the fame manner as recom- mended for the Emphyfema (Q. 44.), at the fame time the bowels are to be fupported by a proper bandage, which is to be gradu- ally tightened as the air efcapcs in order to prevent fainting and violent degrees of in- flammation, which would be apt to take place in the bowels from a great degree of plethora being produced by their being deprived of the fupport given by the air upon its being abftrafted fuddenly. In fome cafes, where the bandages have been omitted, dangerous haemorrhages were faid to take place. $ Ord, ..3sOrd. II. ENCYSTIS. Gen. IV. PURIFORMIS. ABSCESSUS Sy?i. Abscess, Boil. Q- 47* z’i an Abfcefs ? A. It is a cyft of purulent matter formed in confequence of inflammation (O. 10). Q- 4§- In what manner is an abfcefs to be treated ? A. As Jbon as we are certain of pus be- ing once fully formed by the fymptoms of inflammation ceafing (Q. 20), and by the fluctuation felt through the integuments, the contents of the abfcefs are in every cafe to be difcharged by making an incifion into the mod depending part of the tumour. When the tumour is however of confiderable fize, and when matter is allowed to remain for fome time a free difeharge of the tumour § Abfceffus, Linn aim ct Vogeliiis. Apoftema5 Sauvagefvus9 S a earns* ct CulUnus, willEncx/k’d Tu mours. 49 y ''oh • i+.aa will not always effect a cure, lor another colleftion will be apt to form in the fame evil. To prevent this, the cavity of the evil muff be deftroyed altogether by pro- ducing a certain degree of inflammation on its lurface, which will leldom fail to effetl an adhefion, and laflly a concretion of the lides of the lac. Q- 49- What is the be(l mode of exciting this certain degree of Inflammation? A* Various fubdances have been recom- mended to excite it. fuch as caufiic, acid inje&ions thrown into the fac, and the free admiffion of the external air. Other fub- llances acting by their mechanical irrita- tion, produce a fufficient degree of inflam- mation, as the introduction of a cord by means of a long probe, introduced by a previous incifion into the higheft point ofLncyjled Tumours. 5° after it. The cord being now allowed to remain, by its mechanical irritation on the infide of the fac, produces the neceffary degree of inflammation, and by drawing it forward from time to time the matter is al- lowed to efcape along with it. As foon as the fides of the fac bee in to adhere the cord o is to be removed altogether, and by gentle preffure the inflamed hdes of the fac are to be kept in contaft, and the cure completed. VAR.il ABSCESSUS PULMONALIS * Svn. Lung Boil. O. no: I low is an Ahfcefs of the Lungs ta he treated ? \ A. As loan as an abicefs of the lungs is diflingaiOied by the tumour pointing through the integuments, to prevent its burfiirig fuddenly and occafioning imme- diate fuffocation, its contents are to be dil- charged by making an incifion through the integuments upon the part the tumour * Vomica, Linn ecus} Vogdius, Si C Loins. pointsr mh -4.(33 Encyjled Tumours. 5X points to. When the incifion has pene- trated into the cavity of the thorax, the feat of the abfcefs is to be explored by the fin- ger, and an incifion made into it as foon as it is difcovered, which is to be afterwards kept open by a hollow bougie or tube until the wound fills from the bottom. Var. b. abscessus hepaticus* Syn. Abscess of the Liver. Q. How is an Abfcefs of the Liver dif tinguijhed ? A. By proper attention to the preceding inflammation by the enlargement of the region of the kidney, and by the fhivering J fits which generally occur. Sometimes a fluftuation is evidently felt through the in- j teguments of the abdomen. A difcharge j of pus, by the anus, fometimes takes place from adhefions of the liver and colon. There has been fome infiances of the abfcefs burfting through the diaphragm into the thorax.' %- I 52 Encyjlei Tumours. Q. 52. How is an Abjccfs oj the Liver to he treated ? \ A. When once the exigence of an ab- feefs is fully afeertained (Q. 51.), particu- larly when it points through the integu- ments of the abdomen, the mode of treat- ment is exactly fimilar to that recommend- ed, (O. 50.) for abfeefs of the lungs. % Var. c. abscessus lumbaris * i Syn* Lumbar Abscess. O. 53. How is a Lumbar Abfeefs dijlin guijhed ? A. As thefe abfeeffes are generally form- ed on the anterior part of the os~facrum, they may be fometimes miftaken for lum- bago, and at other times they have a flrong refemblance to nephritic affeftions. No difcoloration of integuments takes place for the moft part. However fluctuation of matter is generally perceived. The con- * Lumbago Pfoadica, Fordyce. Lumbago Apoftema- tofa et Ifchias ex Ab fee flu, Scnntrt, Morbus coxanus, Ite Ham. Arthropuous, CulUnus.♦ tents.-4-5(33 Encyjled Tumours. 53 •* * t \ tents of the tumour fometimes get down behind the peritoneum, and point out- wardly towards the anus. By its getting down along with the great blood-veflels, below Paupert’s ligament, it a Humes the appearance of crural hernia; but may be eafily diftinguilhed from it, by no fymptom accompanying hernia taking place. Q. 54. How is a Lumbar Abfcefs to be treated ? A. By the fame remedies recommended for abfcefs in general; by emptying the tu- mour by free incilions, and by the frequent ufe of mild aftringent injeftions; but the difcharge is commonly fo enormous, and the heftic fever fo violent, that the patient, in moil cafes falls a viftim to the difeafe, notwithftanding the moll vigorous exertions of art. • Var. D. Abscessus antri maxillaris. - Q- 55- How is an Abfcefs of the Antrum Maxillare difinguifhed from Tooth-ach and other affections of the Cheek ? A. By a pain and unealinefs firft begin- ning in the cheek, and extending upwards e 3 to54 Encyjled Tumours, to the eyes, nofe, and ears, together with a fwelling, which, in the latter ftages of the difeafe, tends to a point molt frequent- ly in the centre of the cheek. Sometimes a difcharge takes place between the roots of the great molares, when they happen to penetrate the antrum. Sometimes a dif- charge of matter from the noftrils takes place; particularly when the patient lies on the oppofite fide to the tumour, with his head low. • / Q- 56- What are the Caufes of Abfcefs of the Antrum Maxillare ? A. The caufe may be that of inflamma- tion in general; fuch as, violent fits of the tooth-ach, occafioning exceflive pain and inflammation of the membrane of the nofe and antrum. Cold may have alfo fimilar effefts, and may be a caufe. Q. 57. How is an Abfcefs of the Antrum Maxillare cured ? A. By giving a free difcharge to the contents of the tumour, by making a per- foration through one of the fockets of the great molares, the fockets of which fome- times• i i ‘ H- '(Vo/ k 4 Hp*per - ~ Encyjlcd Tumours. 5 5 times penetrate the antrum. When this occurs, there is no occafion for any. other perforation. The beft mode of making the perforation is by a trocar, drilled through the locket into the antrum. As foon as the whole of the matter is dif- charged, a plug may be introduced into the perforation, which may be removed from time to time, to allow the matter to run out ; and to admit allringent folutions of bark to be thrown up occafionally into the cavity of the antrum. In this way a cure is obtained, if the bones happen to be found. But if they are carious, it is im- poffible to expefi a cure, until the difeafed portions of the bone exfoliate, and be re- moved. When clotted blood is formed in the antrum, it is to be removed in the fame manner. Sometimes the bones of the . antrum begin to fwell, and no matter is found upon opening the antrum. In fuch a,cafe the operation does harm. No ex- ternal application has been as yet difcover- ed, capable of removing fuch fweliing. A long continued courfb of mercury has been found to be of feme fervice. STA-L 56 , Encyjied Tumours. STAPHYLOMA * Syn. Abscess within the Eye-ball. Q. 58. What is a Staphyloma? A. It is an abfcefs found within the coats of the eye, and being of a purulent nature renders the aqueous humour fo opaque, as to prevent the rays of light from falling upon the retina. A pain is felt over the whole eye, which generally, however, re- tains its ufual form. » Q. r^g. How is Staphyloma cured ? % A. In the fame manner as recommended for abfcefs in general; by difeharging the contents of the tumour ; by making an in- cifion into the moft prominent part of the cornea. As *foon as the aqueous humour, and the. purulent matter are difeharged, the eye fhould be covered with a flight comprefs, ufing at the fame time a llrift antiphlogiftic regimen, (0. 8.) to prevent inflammation from taking place. * Staphyloma, Sauvagejius} Vogdius. HYPO-' 1 H- Encyfled Tumours. ■ 57 HYPOPYON* Abscess between the Coats of the Eyeball. O. 60. How is Hypopyon dijlinguifjied? A. It is an abfcefs formed between the coats of the eye-ball by inflammation, and is diftinguifhed from ftaphyloma, by a par- ticular portion of the eye being only affe£t-. ed ; by the pain being felt in one place only, and by the contents of the cyft elevat- ing a fmall portion of the eye above the reft. O. 61. How is Hypopyon to be cured ? A. In the fame manner as recommended for ftaphyloma. Whenfunguous excrefcen- cies arife from the incifion made into the cornea, they are to be eaten down by ef- charotics. t Hypopyon, Vog lius.53 Encyjted Tumours. EMPYEMA* Q. 62. PEW u cm Empyema? A. It is a colle&ion of pus formed with- in the cavity of the pleura coflalis, in con- fequence of inflammation, and attended with difficulty of breathing from its prefi* fare upon the lungs. Q. 63. In what manner is Empyema to be treated ? A. When the feat of the abfeefs is fully afeertained, by the tumour pointing out between two of the ribs, a free difeharge is to be given to the pus, by making an incifion into the abfeefs. This operation has been termed Paracentejis of the Thorax. Q, 64. How is the operation of Paracen- tejis of the Thorax executed? A. The patient is to be laid in an hori- zontal pofture; then an incifion is to be made with a fcalpeJ, two inches long, be- tween the fixth and feventh ribs, in the * Empyema, Sauvagefms, Linncuis: Cullajus, Vogdius. direflion59 Encyfted Tumours. dire&ion of the bones, and half way between the fternum and fpine. (This method is to be attempted when there is reafon to fufpefl, that pus is collected within the whole cavity of the pleura, and when the abfcefs does not point to any particular part.) In making this incifion, the fupe- rior part of each rib is to be avoided, on account of the groove, fituated within it, for lodging the blood-veffels and nerves. The intercoftal mufcles being divided, and the pleura laid bare, it is to be cautioufly divided by flight fcratches, toavoid all rifk of wounding the lungs, fhould they hap- pen to adhere to the pleura. If this hap- pens to take place, the furgeon is imme- diately to defift, and make an attempt in fome other place. When the adhefion takes place, the matter is immediately dis- charged by the opening, into which a ca- nula is now to be introduced, and the mat- ter allowed to run out in a gradual manner, to prevent any alarming fymptom (O. 46.) from taking place; as the fame advantage cannot be here obtained from a bandage, o 5 as in cafes of fluids colledled within the abdomen.6o Encyjled Tumours. !■ abdomen. The fkin being drawn pad its natural fituation, when the firft incifion is made, anfwers the effeft of a valve, in fe- eluding the air from the lungs, by its re- gaining its natural fituation, and covering the incifion made through the intercoftal mufcles. The (kin may be daily drawn, fo as that the incifion in the integuments may correfpond to that in the intercoftal mufcles and pleura, to allow the matter to run off. This method feems preferable to the perpetual ufe of a canula, which fel- dom fails to irritate to the furface of the Jungs confiderably. i Q- 65. When Matter is collected in both Jules of the Thorax, how is the cafe to be treated? A. As the admiftion of the external air into the cavity, of the thorax preffes upon the lungs, and produces a degree of fuffo- cation, when one fide of the thorax is only opened, when matter is collected on both hides, therefore, the afte&ion is to be en- tirely removed on one fide, before an at- tempt is to be made to open the other. ToI Q. 66. M- ’(Vo/ Ev.cyfted Tumours. 6l To pre vent the air from preffing upon the lungs, and occafioning opprefiion to too great a degree, by its being allowed to re- main between the lungs and pleura, let the patient make a full infpiration, as loon as the canula is removed; or, let an elaf- tic bottle be applied to the wound in the pleura, and it will extraft the air into its cavity. To produce a radical cure, by exciting a certain degree of inflammation, between the lungs and pleura, fo as to produce a concretion of them, (O. 48.) is not as yet confirmed by experience. There is, however, a great probability of its fuc- ceeding, from adhefions daily taking place between them; being difcovered by defec- tion ; and yet the perfon laboured not un- der any confiderable inconvenience. Dr. Monro recommends a feton to be intro- duced into the fide, by means of a curved trocar. Allowing the feton to remain for fome days, it will produce a fufficient de- gree of inflammation.Encyjled Tumours. 6*2 Q. 66. How is the Seat of Abfcejfes of the Thorax, or Lungs, afcertained? A. When the patient throws up pus by the mouth, we may be certain it comes from the lungs ; but, though this does not happen, the difeafe may fall exift in the lungs, when pus is elfufed within one fide of the pleura only. The patient lies eafi- eft on the alfefted fide. When the abfcefs lies near the furface, it may be obferved by the integuments, which are fometimes found thickened. Gen. V. HYDROPS. %. \ HYDROTHORAX* Chest Dropsy. \ • v : \ Q. 6j. What is an Hydrothorax ? A. It is a colleftion of water within the cavity of the chefl impeding the motion of the heart, and of the organs of refpi- ration. ' . , * Hydrothorax, Savaugejius, Cullenus, & Sagarus. Hy- drops Pulmones, Hippoc. Hydrothorax Pleura?, Hoffman. Q. 68. iEncyjled Tumours. 63 O 63. What are the Diagnojlic Symptoms of Hydrothorax ? A. When a general hydropic diathefis of the fyftem prevails ; when, upon placing the hand upon the fternum, and railing the oatient fuddenly from a horizontal to an JL n ■ s erect pofture, the undulation of the water is felt dafhing againft the fternum ; when a degree of inflammation has preceded the affection, for inflammation of the pleura has been often found to terminate, by a ferous effufion into the cavity of the thorax. The urine is alfo generally fcanty and high coloured ; the patient has a dry tickling cough, with little or no expeftoration, and is always* attended with opprefiion ; the ileep is much diffurbed, and, as the di- feafe advances, the pulfe grows weaker and more irregular. When the water is collefT ed on one flde only, for the moft part that fide is more prominent, and the patient lies eafier on the affefted fide. It is difficult to diftinguifh a dropfy of the pericardium from that of the reft of the thorax. When a dropfy of it occurs, the pain is generally felt64 Encyjled Tumour s- felt about the middle of the fternum ; and the ftroke of the pulfe is, as it were, buried below water. Q- 6g. How is Hydrothorax to be cured ? A. Medicine has little efi'eft in removing the affection. Squills, cremor tartari, and mercury, fometimes, are attended with ad- vantage. But the only method of cure that can in any way be depended upon, is the removing of the water by chirurgicat operation, which is to be executed in the fame way, and with the fame precautions, as recommended for (Q. 64.) removing col- lections of pus. ASCITES*. Syn. Dropsy of the Belly. O. 70. What is Afcites ? A. It is an equal colourlefs fwelling over the whole of the abdomen, occafioned by a ferous fluid, effufed within the cavity of the peritoneum. * Aicites, Sauvagefius? Sagarus, Linnaus, Vogdius. ■. Q- 71-Encyjled Tumours. 65 O. 71. Hsw is Afcites dijlinguijhed from other Swellings of the Abdomen ? . - ' ^ * A. By the fluctuation of the water where it can be perceived ; by oppreffion of breathing, particularly when in the hori- j •* •zontal pofture. Much third, and fcarcity of urine : the patient is pale, and the um- bilicus is pufhed outwards; whereas in an enlargement of the abdomen by fall, it is funk inwards. Q. 72. What are the caufes of Af cites ? A. It may be either an increafed exhala- tion or morbid fecretion into the cavity of the peritoneum ; or, it may depend upon undue inhalation, or abforption. It may be merely local, and produced by com- predion upon the lymphatics, by fcirrho- fities of the bowels, particularly the li- ver It may depend alfo upon a thinnefs of the blood itfelf, or upon a rupture of fome of the lymphatics or laCleals +, or it may depend upon a general hydropic dia- * Afcites 4b Ilcpate, Bond, f Afcites artificiales, Lower. F thefis65 Encyjlcd Tumours. 'S thefis of the fyftem; and may be combined with anafarca. Q. 73. TIozo is Afcites cured ? A. When the difeafe depends upon a general hydropic affeftion of the fyftem, it becomes very formidable, and a cure is feldom obtained in perfons after forty years of age. Medicine has little eftefct in re- moving the affe&ion. Draltic purges of mercury, jalap, and cream of tartar, are fometimes attended with fuccefs. Some ftimulants afting upon the kidneys, in fome cafes have been found to anfwer; fuch as the fquill, foxglove, &c. In order to effect a palliative cure, the water is fometimes drawn off by a chirurgical operation. Sometimes the preffure of the water upon the kidnies prevents the further fecretion of urine. ♦ Q- 74- What is the beji mode of perform-- ing the operation of Paracentefis of the Abdo- men ? 'rA. The patient is to be laid in an hori- * \ zontal pofture, and fitted with a bandage, as•m 11 ^ • 4- r<^y Encyfted Tumours. 67 as recommended For tympanites, (Ot 46.) The 5 courfe of the epigaftric artery is to be avoid* ed, in making the punfiure, which fhould ( be made by a lancet-pointed flat trocar, [ half way between the os ilium & umbilicus* in a flanting direfiion. The bandage is to f > be gradually tightened as the water runs off. If the patient begins to faint, (O. 46.) notwithftanding of the bandage the flow is j to be flopped, by placing the point of the finger upon the canula* If the flow hap- j pens to flop fuddenly, a blunt probe, hav- | ing one of its ends curved, is to be intro- duced to remove any portion of bowel, + • that may obftruft the canula. As foon as j the whole of the water is removed, in this 3 manner, the canula is to be withdrawn, and j the wound is to be covered with Ample 0 ointment, and the abdomen rubbed over with fpirit of wine* r 2 Var.Encyjled Tumours. 68 Var.A*. ANASARCAf. O. 75. What is an Anafarca ? A. It is a foft colourlefs fwelliim, or O 7 either a part or the whole body, retaining the impreffion of the finger for fome time, and occafioned by a herons effufion between the cellular fubftance, and fometimes even between the mufcular fibre. Q- 76- What is the caufe of Anafarca? A. Debility in a part, occafioned by con- tufion or fome external violence, may pro- duce a partial Anafarca. It may,in fome inftances, alfo depend upon 'mechanical preffure of the lymphatics, owing to tu- mours ; or it may depend upon a divifion of them by accident. An univerfal ana- - farca of the whole body depends upon the fame caufes as that of general afeites (Q. 72.) ^ 7 - ... Q. 77. How is Anafarca cured? % A. When the afietii^n depends upon a * Anafcara, SauvageJluj, Callows, Vogdius, Linnczu's. + Hydrocele, Callows, SauvagefiuSj Vogdius. 1 genera!6g Encyjted Tumours, general hydropic diathefis of the fyflem, a cure can be only obtained by a removal of * j the primary affection. When the affection, however, is only local, and depending upon a local caufe, as debility from fprains or contuffons, the cure is to be attempted, by fupporting the part, with a laced {lock- ing, efpecially when it happens to be the extremities, ufing friction at the fame time to promote abforption. W hen the fwell- ing is not diminffhed by thefe means, re- moving it by punfluring the part, is found to anfwer in fome cafes. Violent degrees of inflammation often fucceed fuch punc- tures, which are to be obviated by apply- ing faturame applications to the punctures. When gangrene is threatened, it is to be obviated by wine and ba,rk. When the affection depends upon a preffure upon the lymphatics of the part, a cure is gene- rally obtained upon the preffure being re- moved. When the aJfeftion depends upon a divifion of the lymphatics, fmall punc- tures from time to time are found to re- move the affeftiom70 Encyjled Tumours, HYDROCELE, Q. 78. What is an Hydrocele ? A. It is generally underftood to be a coL leCtion of water within the tunica vaginalis of the teflicles * or the membranes of the ferotum, O. 79. What are the Diagnojlic Symptoms of Hydrocele? A. Hydrocele is diftingufhed from hernia by the tumour in hernia being more unequal to the touch. The fwelling in hydrocele always begins in the inferior part of the fcrotum; whereas in hernia, the fwelling al- ways begins at the top and extends gradually downwTards, In hernia the fpermatic chord is fcarcely diftinguifhed in its courfe; while in hydrocele, for the moft part it is diftim * .4. guifhed throughout the whole courfe of the difeafe. In hernia a fluctuation is feldom perceptible, while in hydrocele a fluctuation is a!moil always perceived; befides the other fymptoms attending hernia are wanting, * Pott, Hydrocelef 4 left, H- 'bio! Encyfled Tumours. 71 Hydrocele is diftinguifhed from encyfled dropfy of the chord by the fuelling lying on the fuperior part of the ferotum; whereas in hydrocle, it lies at the inferior part of the ferotum. It is eafily diftinguifhed from a feirrhous tefticle, from the feirrhous tefticle being'hard, firm, and not yielding upon prefliire; from the roughnefs and unequality attending it; from the flinging pain, and from the great weight in proportion to its bulk. In hydrocele the fwelling is compreftible, little pain takes place, and the tumour is light in proportion to its bulk. By expofing it to the light of a candle it feems tranf- parent if the contents of the fac be clear and if the vaginal coat has not acquired too great a thicknefs. In fome cafes hernia takes place at the fame time. In fuch cafes the diagnoftic fymptoms are more complicated. Q. ‘80. In what manner does Hydrocele begin and terminate ? A. A tumour firft begins at the inferior part of the ferotum, which difappears upon preflure, butas it increafes it becomes more tenfe, and the rugae of the ferotum become72 Encyjled Tumours. lefs perceptible, until at laft they entirely difappear, The tumour now appears more conical, with its apex towards the abdomen; the penis alfo difappears owing to the weight of the tumour pulling down the fkiri of the neighbouring parts along with it. The ferotum becomes at laft fo very tenfe, that flufluation can fcarcely be perceived in it, and after it has continued for fome time in / , • this ftate, it at laft burfts and the whole water is fuddenly difcharged. O. 81. What are the caufes of Hydroclc of the Tunica Vaginalis Tejtis ? A. The caufes of Hydrocele are the fame with thofe of dropfy in general. In the ftate of health a fmall quantity of aqueous exha- lation for lubricating the furface of the tefticle takes place. This quantity may be morbidly increafed or the power of the ab- forbing fyftem diminifhed. In either of thefe cafes, it may prove a caufe of hydroceles. O. 82, How is a Hydrocele to be treated ? A. The difeafe may be palliated by a re- moval of the water, as recommended for ' dropfy *H- - (Vo/ Encyjled Tumours. 73 dropfv in general, by making an incifion by the lancet, or by Mr. Andres flat trocar, with a lancet point introduced in an oblique direction cautioufly on the anterior and bot- of the water is removed the canula is to be bandage, and the patient is to be confined to meafure recover their tone. To promote a tines have any effeft. Some mild mercurial plying at the fame time a folution of faccha- rum faturni to the part has been known to be of fervice in fome cafes. After all thefe have failed, a cure is .only to be obtained by a chirurgical operation, the chief intention of which is to produce an accretion of the fides of the fac together, fo as to obliterate Q 3 its cavity. tom of the tumour. As foon as the whole withdrawn, and the wound on the fcrotum is to be cured with fome adhefive plaifter. / 4 • The fcrotum is to be then fupported by a T bed for a few days until the parts in fome radical cure few external or internal medi- purges given once or twice a week, and ap-74 Encyjlcd Tumours. Q. 83. How is the Operation for the radu cal Cure of Hydrocele performed? A. Various methods have been propofed and recommended for exciting a certain degree of inflammation in the tunica vagi- nalis of the tefticle, fuch as the application of cauftic, the introduction of a feton (Q. 49), throwing in air and acrid injections, and making an incifion by the knife fo as to admit the cool air freely into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The latter method is generally preferred. It is executed by making an in c if on with a round edged fcalpel through the integuments, from the top to the bottom of the tumour. Then with a lancet an incifion is to be made in the tunica vaginalis of the tefticle large enough to allow the finger to be introduced, which now ferves as a directory for con- ducting a flraight probe-pointed fcalpel with which an opening is to be made, by dividing the fuperior part of the tunica va- ginalis. Then the opening is to be ex- tended downwards to the molt inferior point of the tumour, unlefs the fkin be much thickened. There is no occalion for removing 1 . • * * / * \ .• I H- 4 ' Encyjied Tumours. 75 removing any portion of it. The ftate of the teflicle is to be immediately examined, and, if it is found, it is to be inflantly covered and defended from the air, and a piece of foft lint introduced between the lips of the wound fo as to produce a proper decree of inflammation. But when the o inflammation runs too high it is to be mo- derated by blood letting, and the other parts of the antiphlogiftic regimen, apply- ing, at the fame time, warm emollient poultices over the part to favour a plenti- ful fuppuration, which is always neceffary for the cure* The patient is to be con- fined to bed until the fwelling fublides, which will generally happen in a few days. In this manner a cure is, for the moll part, obtained in the courfe of five or fix weeks. When both Tides of the fcrotum are affe£t- v * ed at the fame time the firft fide is to be allowed to heal before a cure is to be at- tempted on the other, as the danger attend- ing the operation arifes from the extent of furface expofed to inflame. Dr. Monro has found* that the moft fuccefsful time for * executing 'this operation is to attempt it * Dr. Monro's Prade&iones. very t # . N / II > yS Encyjled Tumours. ■ ' ■ • . / * » very foon alter the palliative method has been once executed, before it begins to in- 7 O • <1 creafe again. In this ftage the extent of furface expofed to inflame is much lefs, and the danger attending the operation more inconfiderable. # * * S ✓ ' . ‘ ■ • - O. 84. 1What prognows can be given cf the operation for Hydrocele? A. In very old people of infirm confli- tutions and otherwife difeafed, theprogiiota 11 may be doubtful. But in conflitutions otherwife healthy, and when a limple Hy- drocele only takes place, little or no dan- ger can arife from an operation for the ra- dical cure. The danger muff be always more or lefs confiderable in proportion to the fize of the tumour and the extent of furface expofed to inflame. > 1 *.' » O. 85, How are Anafarcal Seedlings of the Scrotum to be treaded ? A. By removing the water by fcarifica- tion, punctures, &c. When anafarcous fwel- 3 in vs of the ferotum arife f rom an ulcer in O 1 the urethra of a venereal nature, fuch ulcers are to be cured by a long continued ufe of mercury, * * ' •/ ’ /0 % Encyjlcd Tumours. 77 1 mercury, inferring a bougie into the urethra, and removing the callous edges by the fcalpel. « • » • ~ HYDROPS SACCI HERNIOSL O. 80. How is a Th'opjical Swelling of the Herniary Sac dijinguijied? A. The water can be made by preffure to pafs into the cavity of the abdomen. In no other fpecies of dropfxcal fwellines does r r o this take place. N Q. 87. How is a Dropjical Swelling of a Herniary Sac to be treated?- A. Unlefs the patient fubmits to the ope- / ration for Hernia, no attempt is to be made to promote a radical cure, particularly if the bowels protrude. The utmoft that can be done is to draw off the water by a fmall trocar. * ASCITES FUNIS SPERMATIC!, • f {X 88. In what manner is Encyfted Dropfy cf the Spermatic Chord dijlinguijhed? A. It is diftinguifiied from hydrocele ** ¥ • * tuniemyS Encyjled, Tumours. !\ . tunicas vaginalis, by (Q.79) the tefticle being found in this fpecies of fwelling always on the back part of the tumour, and unconneft- ed with it. The fize of the penis is not fo much altered. It may be diftinguifhed from hernia by the touch and from the fweh ling not beginning firll at the ring of the ob~ lique mufcles. Q- 89- In what manner is Encyjled Dropfy of the Chord to be cured ? A. By the fame radical method as recom- mended for the cure of hydrocele tunicas, vaginalis teftis, or a palliative cure may be obtained by difcharging the water. Q. 90. In what manner are Anafarcous Swellings of the Chord produced ? A. They are occafioned by an hydropic diathelis prevailing in the fyftem, or by fome affeftion of the lymphatics of the part., They may alio be entirely local. 1 O. 91. How is an Anafarcous Swelling of the Chord difinguijhed ? A, It is eafily diftinguifned from dropfical {wellings| 1 . aicj Encyfted Tumours, 79 \ 1 fwcllin gs of the tunica: vaginalis tell is, from the water being not coliebled in a cyll of the peritoneum. It is diftinguifhed from hernia by the fymptoms attending hernia being wanting; and from the encyfted dropfy of the chord by the touch being not elallic, and by the fluctuation being imperceptible, which is the contrary in the encyfted dropfy of the chord. . • ' ' » O. 92. In what manner are Anafarcous Swellings of the Chord to be treated ? A. By removing the general hydropic dif- pofition* if prefent, and by difcharging the water by puntlure, as recommended for anafarca in general (Q. 77), and with the lame precautions, HYDROPS OVARII*. O. 93. How is Dropfy of the Ovarice to be treated ? A. No operation can be attempted for its * Afcites Ovarii, Sauva§.efnts. Afcites Sacc&tus, Merck- leni. Afcites ab Qvariis, Mead, \ cureV f * t So Encyjlefi Tumour*, cure unlefs the difeafe has advanced to a confiderable fize, as the nature of it can then be more eafily afcertained from its fituation* and from its occupying one lide of the abdo- men only. The method of cure muft be the fame as that recommended for afeites* A radical cure can fcarcely be expected from the flotation of the part, and from the con- tents being confined in hard cylL The ab* forbent fyltem acled upon by any medicines can have little effefK . 0 0 HYDROPHT HALMIA * Syn. Dropsy of the Eye-ball. t 1 0.94. What are the Diagnojlic Symptoms oj Dropjical Swellings in the Eye-ball? A. The diftinftion in the latter ftages of dropfical fwellings of the eyes is not eafy, as they may be miftaken for ftaphyleina; but in the early fiages it may be eafily diftinguilh- ed from the eye being fomewhat enlarged. * Ilydrophtlu'.rnia, Vogdias. Staphyloma, Sauvagefius. and' l I • H- ’.cU ot Encyjled Tumours., 81 and frill fenfible to the impreflions of light. It may be alfo diftinguifhed from (taphyloma by the colour of the aqueous humour of the i eye, and from the one immediately fucceed- ing inflammation. The pain attending dropfical fwellings is at firft very incon- fiderable, except in the very laft ftages of the affeftion, when the diflenfion alone renders the difeafe diftrefling. O.95. How is Dropfy of the Eye-ball to be \ treated ? A. The chief indication in the cure, is to reftore the fight as foon as poflible, which may be deftroyed by the deformity occa- fioned by the diftenlion of the eye, from the I water not allowing the rays of light to colleft before they fall upon the retina. This alone may prevent vifion, independent of any other morbid affe&ion of the eye. To prevent this, a fmall incifion is to be made either in ^ the inferior part of the lucid cornea, or in the poflerior chamber of the aqueous hu- 0 mour of the eye,, to allow the water to run : out. Such remedies as are found to anfwer < belt for the removal of the general affection G Of1 82 Encyjled Tumours. of the fyftem, and for promoting abforption,- are to be ufed. HYDARTHUS * Syn. Dropsy of the Joints. / ' O.96. What are the Diagnojlic Symptoms of Dropfcal Swellings of the Joints? A. When dropfy of the capfular ligaments occurs, the fluid pafles with eafe from one fide of the joint to the other. Whereas in fwellings of the burfas mucofle it is more circumfcribed. It is alfo diftinguilhed from anafarcous fwelling of the cellular fubftance, by the afieftion extending beyond the joint. Q. 97. H010 is Dropfy of the Knee to be treated ? 1 A. By removing the hydropic difpofltion of the fyftem, if prefent, and by drawing off the water by an opening made into the joint. The greateft attention is however here necef- fary to prevent the free accefs of the external t * \ *» * Ilydarthus, Sauvagefms, Culknus, Sagarus. air /g 2 this • M- 'CUot / # s , f* Encyjled' Tumours. 83 air into the cavity of the joint, which is liable to very high degrees of inflammation. « V ' '• • / HYDROPS BURS/E MUCOSAE. / <- t ■ 1 0. q8. What are the caufes of Dropfical Swellings of the Bur fee Mucofce? A. Such dropfical collections may fome- times arife from rheumatifm, which in lb me cafes terminate by a ferous effufion within the Burfe; or it may be the confequen.ee of fprains or contufions. It is diftinguifhed from dropfical fwellirigs of the joints by Q. g6. : , • . . t . . • '! Q■ 99■ How are Dropfical Swellings of the » Burfx Mucofce to be treated A. When the affe&ion arifes from rheu- inatifm, friCtion upon the part and blifters are fometimes attended with the bell elfefts. But when the affe&ion arifes from fprains, the matter contained in the Burfe can leldom be made to difappear. In fuch a cafe an opening is to be made into the fac, when it ■ can be with propriety executed. But when.84 Encyjled Tumours. this is imprafticable from the continuity of nerves and tendons, a feton or chord is to be introduced (Q. 49), and a cure is foon effe&ed. - ” 4 Var. §. GANGLION, O. 100. What is a Ganglion ? A. It is a fmall moveable tumour formed by a diftenfion of fome of the burfae mucofe at the wrift of the hand, and containing a clear vifcid matter. 4 • o. 101. How are Gam lions to be cured? o A. By either removing them by the fcal- pel, or diminifhing their fize by preffure. Friftion may be alfo uled. Their contents may be allowed to run off by making a per- foration into them with a fine needle, 1 SPINA BIFIDA * Q. 102. What is a Spina Bifida? A. It is a foft fweliing on the Ipinous / ' * Hydrorachites, Saitvagcfius, Sagarus, Culknus> Spina Bifida, Vogtlius* Spinola, 'Linnecus, * proceffes,Encyjlcci Tumours. «5 proceffes, more commonly of the lumbar vertebrae, occafioned by a colle&ion of ferum within the natural covering of the fpinal marrow, and is fometimes accompanied with hydrocephalus. Q. 103. How is a Spina Bifida to be treated ? I • A. All that can be done for it is to flip- port the tumour by a bandage. All the at- tempts ever made to difcharge the contents of this kind of tumour proved unfuccelsful, and the confequences have been generally fatal. » - . 1 / ‘ . «r • ' Gen. VI. SANGUINEA. v ANEURISMA*. v V * • $ Q, 104. What is an Ancurifm ? A. It is a morbid dilatation of the coats of an artery, and is' diftinguifhed from abfcefs by its being always fituated over the coats of an artery. In fome cafes, however, the * Ancurifma, Sauvagcfius, Sagarus, Cullenus, Linnazus, Vogelius. g 3 diftinQion /I * ' . / 86 Encyjled Tumours. diftintlion is difficult. When the abfeels is in contact with an artery, a puliation may- be felt diftindlly through the tumour. The mod effiential character of Aneurifm is* when its contents are made to recede upon preffure, and to return again immediately upon the preffure being removed. A puf- fation is generally felt throughout the whole courfe of the difeafe. • « ✓ O. 105. In what manner does Aneurifm terminate if not cured? A. The fwelling, though at firff of a fmall fize, gradually advances. The {kin ft ill keeps its natural colour, and little pain is felt in the part. In a ftiort time, however, the {kin becomes pale, and the tumour yields impartially upon preffure. The pain becomes now more confiderable, and the {ldn begins to grow livid, and dif- o o charges for feme time a bloody ferum until at laft it becomes quite gangrenous, when, all of a hidden the tumour burfts, and carries immediate death along with it by the great difeharge of blood from it, if it f happens to be a dilation of lonm v conlider- able * 1l | H- • >vo/ V Encyjled Tumours. 87 able veffel, or if it has acquired an ex- traordinary fize. J Q. 10S. What are the caufes of Encyjled* Aneurifm ? A. The caufe may either be a partial debility in the coats of an artery by violent blows, or the like, or it may arife from a wrant of refiltance given to the coats of the artery from its being deprived of its ufual fupport, owing to extenfive portions of b<7ne being removed by mortification, caries, &c. A refiftance given to the paf- fage of the fluids in the veffels often ter- minates in a dilation of them. The prick of a lancet, although it did not penetrate into the cavity of the artery, has been often found to occafion aneurifm from the debility it occafions in the coats of the artery. o. 107. How is Aneurifm to be treated ? A. In the early ftages of the affetlion preffure is found to have fome effeft, when it * Aneurifma Verum, Sauvagif,us> \ G 4 IS88 Encyjted Tumours. - is applied as "Toon as the blood is forced out of the fac, and when the patient is for fome time kept upon & low diet to prevent plethora. But when thefe fail, recourfe is to be had to a chirurgical operation, the chief indication of which is to obliterate the cavity of the artery altogether. Q. 108. • How is the Operation for En- cyjied Aneurifm executed ? A. Longitudinal incifion is to be made above the dilated part cautioufly, fo as to bring the artery into view. The incifion is to be extended an inch above the dilated part. A ligature is now to be carried, by means of a blunt hook, behind the artery, which is to be furrounded by it, and tightened to fuch a degree, as to obliterate entirely its cavity. The circulation is Hill to be fupported in the under part of the limb by the anaftomofmg branches, which gradually dilate, and prove at laft fufficient for nourifhing the arm. 'Warm applications are to be ufed to the parts below, to de- termine the blood more copioufiy into them. 1 Q. 109.‘ ' H- • <Vo^ Encyjled Tumours. 89 Q.109. What prognoui can be given oj Aneurijms? A. The prognosis mull depend upon the manner in which the difeafe has been pro- duced ; upon the fituation of it; upon the part and the progrefs of the fwelling. When the fwellincr comes on in a flow and gradual manner, the prognose {is worfe than when its progrefs is more rapid and owing to fome accident. When the difeafe is high in the extremities, the prognoui is worfe than when it is lower. In fome cafes an operation has fucceeded, although it had been performed feveral inches above the elbow. * Var. a. aneurisma spuria * ' . Syn. Diffused Aneurism. . 4 , Q. 110. How is dijj'ufed Aneurifm dijlin- guijhed ? A.‘ By a difFufed fwelling of the intera- ments, occafioned by blood poured out * Aneurifma Spurium, Heijtcr, fromEncyjled Tumours, 3° from an artery ruptured, into the cellular fubflance, occurring fometimes to fuch a decree as to occafion a lividnefs and mor- tification of the whole limb. The cellular fubflance becomes at lafl indurated, and forms a fac, which being gradually diflend- ed, burfls at lafl of a Hidden, and terminates, as in encyfled aneurifm (Q. 105). / ’ 1 Q. 111. What are the caufes of Dijfufed Aneurifm ? A. It may arife from pun61ures^of fharp pointed infl ruments; or corrofive matter of fores, &c. deflroying the coats of the conti- guous artery. It is for the moft part the confe- quence of blood-letting in the arm, from the lancet wounding the artery. f O. 112. How is the Diffufed Aneurifm to be cured? A. After making an incifion along the o O courfe of the tumour, and removing all the 3 o dotted and extravafated blood, the orifice,, from which the blood is poured out, is to be difeovered by flackening the tourniquet, which is to be applied previous to the operation.Encyjled Tumours. 9* / operation, to prevent haemorrhagy. As loon as the opening is cli{'covered, a ligature i is to be applied, both above and below the part where the wound is difcovered in the artery, and the remaining wound is to be drefTed in the common method. For the cure of Diffufed Aneurifm, another method has been lately propofed, by Mr. Lambert, of performing the twilled future upon the orifice of the artery. It has fucceeded as yet in one cafe only. There are many ob- jections ftated againft this method. Upon withdrawing the pins a frefli Aneurifm is produced: A partial debility is faid to take place in the coats of the artery, which lays the foundation of a new Aneurifm. The \ . . ; I cavity of the artery is alfo much leffened. Var. b, aneurism a varicosa. Syn. Varicose Aneurism. Q. 113. What is a Varicofe Aneurifm ? A. When blood ruflhes from a rupture of an artery into a vein, a dilation of the coats of the vein is the confequence. It is difiin- guifhed92 EncyJled, Tumours. guilhed from the other varieties of the Aneu- rifm by a particular hiffii g noife and tremu- lous motion, refembling the letter R. The pulfe is alfo more feeble than that of theoppo- fite arm. The affe&ion is for the molt r»art produced from the lancet, in the operation for blood-letting (Q. g), pafiing through the oppofite fide of the vein into the artery. Q. 114. How is Varicofe AneuriJ'm to be cured ? A. The progrefs of the Varicofe Aneurifm is not, in general, fo rapid, as it is in the other fpecies of aneurifm ; for often, after it has acquired a certain fize, it remains Ration- ary, without acquiring any additional bulk. When the cafe, however, turns out otherwife, and the feveral fymptoms (O. 105), take place, that attend aneurifm, the method of cure mud be exa£tly the fame as recom- mended for encyfled aneurifm (Q. 107). VARIX.Encyjled Tumours. t V A R I X *. Q. 115. What is a Varix ? A. It is a morbid dilation of a vein, occa- fioned by the fame caufes as thofe of encyfted aneurifm (O. 106). Q, 116. How is a Varix to be treated ? A. In the fame manner as recommended , for aneurifm (O, 107). , , 1 ■ Var. a. cirsocele* I Syn. Varicocele. O. 117. What is a Cirfocele ? A. It is an enlargement of the fpermatic veins, by preffure with a trufs, or too tight breeches, forming hard tubercles, by the blood being prevented from returning to the head. ' , ^ • 1 - § Varix, Sauvagcfius, CnlUnus, Sagarus, Linnteus, et Vocellus. * Cirfocele, Vcgclius7 Blcncardus. Q, 118. How/ I 54 Encyjlecl Tumours, t % O. 118. How is Cirfocele to be treated? A. By avoiding the caufe a cure is gene- rally obtained; by a removal of the caufe* and by avoiding plethora. * r Var. b. thrombus. Syn. Varix Spuria; l -1 ^ ' Q. ii g. What ts a Thrombus ? A. It is an effufion of blood into the cellu- lar fubflance, from a rupture of a vein imme- diately below the cutis vera ; or, by draw- ing the ikin over the orifice in the vein, when performing the operation or blood-letting, a Thrombus is produced. The blood fomc- times coagulates, and forms a cyft for itfelf, by indurating the furrounding cellular mb- it ance. , 1 v i Q. 120. Hozo is a Thrombus to be treated t 'V f s \ A. When a Thrombus' occurs immedi- ately after the operation of blood-letting, fiackening the ligature may prevent any fur- ther eSufion into the cellular fubllance; and ' 3 the/ Encyjled Tumours* 95 N / the quantity already effufed may be abforbed. When this is not the cafe, recourfe is gene- rally had to aftringents and other ftimulant applications, fuch as brandy and a folution of crude fal ammoniac, which is rubbed upon the part. Sometimes, however, the blood is coagulated ; in fuch cafes abforption can- not take place, therefore the tumour is to be opened, and the coagulated blood removed. Var. C.' H^EMORRHOIS *. Syn. Piles. • • t * * i f O. 121. What is an Hcemorrkois ? A. By Haemorrhois is underftood a mor- bid dilatation of the veins about the anus, when they are diftended lO a great degree. They occafion violent pain and tenefmus, by the irritation they occafion in the redum. They are at fird elaflic and compreflible, when they are denominated Bllnd Piles. By degrees, however, they didend, until at lad they burd, when they get the denomina- / * » * Hscmorrhois, Cullenus? Sagarus. Marifca, Sauvagejius* , tion II 96 Encyjled Tumours. tion of Bleeding Piles. The difcharge of blood from them does not leffen their fize. By the blood effufed from them into the cellular fubftance, they acquire a harder and more folid confiftence. Q. 122. What is the caufe oj Hcemorrhois ? A. By fome they were fuppofed to be a critical difcharge, for removing morbific matter from the fyftem, and were in this manner, ferviceable in removing and pre- venting plethoras. Any exciting caufe is found to produce them, fuch as compref- fion upon the veffels of the anus, by pre- venting the return of their blood into the head. In this way coftivenefs, gravid uterus, fcirrhous tumours of the bladder, and proftate gland, are found to be fo often caufes of Hsemorrhois.. «» - • ■» Q. 123. How is Hcernorrhois to be cured? A. When Ifemorrhois is occafioned by coftivenefs, laxatives are proper. When the parts are inflamed, the application of leeches to the part is found to be of fervice, applying97 Encyjled Tumours* applying the fame time fome aftringent fo- lution, fuch as that of oak bark, faccha- rum faturni, or the like. When Haemor- rhois are occafioned by pregnancy, chang- ing of poflure may have fome effeti. When they arrive to a confiderable fize, fo as to produce great irritation, the removal of them by the knife, or by ligature, becomes necelfary. The firli of thefe may be ufed when their bafes are broad; fimple dreffings are to be applied to them afterwards. But when the bafes are narrow, removing them by ligature anfwers better, and little or no dreffings are required. HEMATOCELE SCROTI * Q, X24. What is an Hematocele Scroti? A. It is a tumour occafioned by blood extravafated in the fcrotum, tunica vagi- nalis, or in the fpermatic chord, occa- fioned by fome external violence, as blows inflicted on the fcrotum, or neighbouring parts, producing a rupture of veffels. i Ofcheophvma, Sauvagefms, Hernia Sanguitiea, Celf us,-gS Encyjled Tumours. I Q. 125. How is Hematocele Scroti to be cured ? A. By the ufe of friftion and aftringent applications to the part, abforption of the effufed blood may ta! e place. But when the blood is clotted, this is rendered impof- flble; in fuch a cafe, therefore, the blood is to be removed, as recommended for the radical cure of hydrocele (Q. 83). HEMATOCELE PECTORALIS. . i Syn. Effusions of Blood within the Pleura. Q. 126. What is the caufe of Effufons of Blood within the Thorax ? A. Wounds inflifted with (harp pointed inftruments, penetrating the cavity of the blood veffels. Sharp pieces of fraftured bones may have this effefl;. Violent exer- tions of the lungs, in coughing and fneezing, or the like. The acrid matter of ulcers may alfe corrode holes in the blood veffels. Q, 127.Encyjled Tumours. gg \ the H 2 O. 127. How is Hematocele Pefloralis to be cured? A. When the fymptoms, attending col- lections of fluids within the thorax (O. 78), appear immediately upon fome injury or wound of the thorax ; and when there is reafon to fufpeft blood to be effufed, it is to be removed in the fame manner as recom- mended for collections of pus (O. 64). But when the extravafated blood is found coagulated, injections of warm water are recommended to be thrown into the thorax to diffolve it. This, however, muff be ufed with the greateft caution. The patient, during the cure, fhould be kept on a lower diet. * HEMATOCELE OCULI* Q. 128. What are the cavfes of EJfuJions of Blood zcithin the Eye-ball ? A. External injuries, producing a rupture of veffeis, occafion an effufion of blood into Ophthalmia Traumatica, Mcyzcrcy,10O Encyjled Tumours. the the chambers of the eye. It may be like- wife owing to inflammation, or to a putrid diathefis of the fyftem. Q. 12 g. How arc Ejfujions of Blood3 xoitkin the cavity of the eye, to be treated ? A, When fuch effufions take place, they mix with the aqueous humour, and render it lb opaque, as to prevent the rays of light from falling upon the retina. A removal, therefore, of the aqueous humour, is to be executed in the fame manner as recom- mended for dropfical fwellings of the eye- ball (Q. 95). The aqueous humour, with the blood effufed amongft it, being removed, the eye is to be covered by a foft comprefs of lint, moiflened in a weak folution of faccharum faturni. ’ HEMATOCELE ARTICULL O. 230. How are Effufions of Blood within the Joints io be treated ? A. As effufions of blood, within the cap- fular ligaments of the joints, depend uponserous, H 3 \ Encyjled Tumours. 101 the fame caufes, as effufions of blood with- in the other cavities of the body, the method of cure mult be the fame, viz. By removing them. This is executed in the fame man- ner as recommended for dropfical fwellings of the joints (O. 97). / Gen. VII. PULTACEA* ATHEROMA Q- 131- What is an Atheroma ? A. It is an encyfted tumour, containing matter of the confidence of dough, fituated on thofe parts of the body that are lefs fup- plied with fat. O. How is an Atheromatous Tumour to he / treated ? A. When the tumour happens to be of a large fize, fo that the admilfion of the air into the cavity of the fac might prove dan- * Lupia, Sauvagejius3 Cullenus, Blancardus, $ agar us* Encyftis, Vogelius. ' § Atheromaj Linneus, o *Encyjled Tumours. 102 gerous, by producing too high a degree of inflammation, a fmall opening is to be made, fo as to allow the contents of the tumour to efcape; but when the contents of the tu- mour are of fuch confidence, as not to pafs out by the ordinary incifion, the opening is to be enlarged, or the whole of the fac with its contents may-be removed. Very . often the fac adheres but (lightly to the con- tiguous foft parts. The fac is generally more eafily removed, after the contents of the tumour have been previoufly dif- charged. MELICERIS* O. iqq. What is a Meliccris, and how to be treated ? A. It is a tumour of a limilar nature with atheroma, but containing matter of the confiftence of honey, and is exaftly to be treated in the fame manner as recom- mended for atheroma. * Meliccris, Sagorus, Lupia Meliceris, Sauvagefius. 3 STEATOMA,Encyjied Tumours. •' 103 I STEATOMA* O. 134. What is a Steatoma? A. It is a tumour confiding of fatty matter, furrounded by a cyft formed of the contiguous cellular fubfiance indurated. It is didinguifhed from atheroma (O. 131), by its being for the molt part of a folid confidence, it moves more readily under the dun, and its furface is generally more unequal. It may be alfo didinguifhed from its occurring in thofe parts which are more commonly covered with fat. Q- *35- How is a Steatoma to be cured? A. By removing it by the knife. An in- cifion fhould be made longitudinally on the mod prominent part of the tumour. There is no occafion for removing any portion of the integuments, except when the tumour is of too great a fize, and the fkin for covering the wound is too plentiful. In fiich cafes two femilunar incilions are to * Steatpma, Sagarus.104 Encyjled Tumours. be made, and a fmall piece from the center is to be removed. * / RANULA. O. 136. What is q Ranula? A. It is a fmall tumour fituated at the frcenum of the tongue, containing matter of various degrees of confiftence. Some- times a fatty matter, at other times fton'ey concretions are found within them. They often acquire fuch a lize as to prevent maftication and fpeech, which is only a croaking noife. Sometimes fuch tumours burft of themfelves and form an ylcer dif- ficult of healing. Q- J37* IIow is Ranula to be treated ? A. By making an incifion into fuch tumours when they happen to be of a fatty nature, and difcharging their contents. In the removal of fuch tumours the greateft caution is necelfary to obviate the hemor- hagy, by taking fome fpirits of wine or fome aftringent folution in the mouth to produceEncyfted Tumours. a 05 produce a conftriftion of the veffels. When the tumour burfts of itfelf and leaves an ulcer with callous edges, the callous edges are to be removed by the fcalpel, and a cure is foon to be obtained. I 9 Okd.[ 106. ] the Grd. III. ECTOPIA*. ■ Gen. VIII. HERNIAt. *' • * 1 O. 138. How is Hernia dijlinguijliedfrom every other genus of tumour ? A. Hernia is diPinguifhed from hydro- O j cele by Q. 70. It is diftitiguifhed from fwellings of the foermatic chord by O. 88. O-i J It may be alfo confounded with other fwellings of the groin, as venereal buboes. By a little attention it may be dftinguiihed from thefe, by the incompreffible hardnefs attending fuch tumours at fir ft, and by fee liny a fluftuation in them when matter o is once fully formed. It is alfo eafily dib tinguillied from an enlarged ftate of the tefticle, by the tumour being heavy in pro- portion to its bulk, and from the exquilite pain that is generally produced upon touching the epididimis. Hernia may alfo be diftinguifhed by the pain and tenfion of * Eftopia, Sauvagejms, Sagarus, Cullenus. •f Hernia, Cullenus, Pott: Linnaeus, Gaubius,Tumours from Displacement. 107 —' . ' i the abdomen, and obftrufted bowels, which is one of the effential charaHers of Hernia. By attending alfo to the caufe, the hidden- nefs of the appearance, the pain, the feel of air when the inteftines are protruded, the foftnefs and inequality that are perceived when the omentum is pullied out, and by abferving the hze of the tumour always to increafe upon coughing, crying, or the like, we can leldom fail to form a juft diagnofis. ' » O. tgq. ‘What are the caufes of Hernia? A. Whatever diminifhes the cavity of the abdomen pufhes the bowels out of their natural fituation, fuch as laughing, crying, fneezing, gravid uterus, &c. and every un- ufual exertion, producing a want of tone in the mufcles and integuments of the ab- domen, becomes alfo a caufe of Hernia. Some alledge that perfons living on oily food are more liable to Hernia. Q. 140. From whence arifes the danger of Hernia ? A. From the obftruftion of the foeces in the alimentary canals, and from the im- pedimentio8 Tumours from Difplacement. pediment given to the free courfe of the circulation in the protruded parts by the openings through which the bowels efcape, forming a conftriclion on them, and oc- casioning what has been termed Jlrangula- tion of Hernia. When fuch occurs morti- fication is evidently the confequence, and the danger is exceedingly great, particu- larly when any organ effential to life is protruded; and though a fmall portion of the omentum only is protruded, Hill the danger attending it is considerable, from its paving the way for the protrufion of fome bowel of more immediate importance to life, by enlarging the dimenfion of the opening. Q. 141. What are the fymptoms of Stran- gulated Hernia ? A. An elallic colourlefs Swelling is a 1- ‘ ways difcovered in the part affected. Naufea and vomiting generally take place, and the patient is hot and refllefs. No dil- charge is procured by ftool after thele jVmptoms have continued for fome time. A diltrelfing convulfive hiccup enfues, whenTumours from Difplacevient. 109 1 when all of a fudden the reft of the fymp- toms difappear, which fometimes will lead the patient to imagine that he is recovering; but when this occurs it is a fign of ap- proaching death. The pulfe now becomes flow and interrupted; a cold fweat covers the extremities, the fwelling and hardnefs of the abdomen fubfide, the eyes acquire a kind of languor, and the integuments of the abdomen a livid colour. A kind of crackling noife, like a dried bladder, is felt all over the body. The protruded parts are now returned with eale. At laft fub* fultus tendinum occurs, and death clofes the fcene. Q. 142. How is a Cure of the Strangulated Henna to be treated ? % A. By attempting to reduce the bowels as foon as poffible. In executing this, it muft be always obferved, that the parts laft protruded muft be firft reduced. Thd patient is to be laid in an horizontal pof- ture and the protruded parts reduced by the finger of the furgeon preffing gently in the enreition of the opening, while with the otheri 16 Tumo urs from Difplacement. other hand he fupports the tumour. When the furgeon fails to reduce it in this way5 the pohure of the patient is to be changed; he is to be raifed on his head and fhaken. The bowels have been fometimes reduced in this manner. Several remedies have been recommended to remove the ftrifture, at the openings in the rings of the abdo- minal mufcles, in order to facilitate the reduction, from an opinion that this con- II rift ion was of a fpafmodic nature. With this view blood-letting has been recom- mended. Little can be, however, expefted from its antifpafmodic effects upon the ten- dinous rings of the mufcles. It may be of fome fervice in diminilhing the contents of the tumour, and in producing a deliquium animi. By extrafting a quantity of blood as quickly as pollible, and fuddenly relaxing the ligature, a deliquium animi may be produced, particularly if the patient be kept in an erect poflure. In this manner a re- duction was effefted, often after every other method had failed. Some have recom- mended warm poultices to be applied to the part, to relax the conftri&ion, but this methodI * % Tumours from Difplacemcnt. 111 , i method can never be with' propriety at- tempted, as heat always tends to increafe the fize of the tumour, and of confequence to render the reduction more difficult. Some recommend the application of cold and fnow * to the part, in order to diminiffi the lize of the tumour. Stimulant purgatives may have fome effeCi in producing a re- duction, and in removing coftivenefs. Sti- mulant injeCtions are, however, found to anfwer belt, fuch as tobacco fmoke. Opium injeCied by the anus is fometimes attended with good effeCts. When, notwithftanding every attempt, a reduction cannot be ac~ complifhed, the only expedient left is to remove the conftriCtion by a chirurgical operation. * Dr. AUx, Monro. Sin, V* / / BUBO-112 Tumours from Difplacemcnt. BUBONOCELE * - Syn. Inguinal Hernia, Groin Rupture. Q. 143. What is a Bubonocele? A. It is a tumour formed in the groin by a protrufion of fome of the bowels, through the rings of the external oblique mufcles. The varieties of this fpecies of Hernia derive their names from the different bowels that happen to protrude, as \ r Var. A. Epiplocele, when the omen- tum is protruded. B. Splenocele, when the fpleen is protruded. C. Enterocele, when the inteftines protrude. Z>. Cystocele, when the bladder pro- trudes. E. HepatoceeEj when the liver is pro- truded. Bubonocele, Fogdius. Sagarus, 1 F. IIY-— —™ "T" Tumours from Difptacement. 11$ F. H ysteroce le, when the uterus pro- trudes. t t G. Hernia C'oncenita *, when any part of the protruded bowels is in con tat I: with the body of the teftis, and the tunica vaginalis forms the herniary fac. It is more common in infants, owing: to lomC i O parts of the bowels getting down with the tefticle before the opening through which the tefticle palled was obliterated. The palling down of the bowels, in this manner* prevents the fides of the opening from coming in contact. < O. 144. When Bubonocele has fubjifted for fome time, and zv/ten from the jymptoms (Q- mO we are certain that Jlrangulation has takenplace * and that a reduction (Q. 142} is become impoffible, how is the Conjiridion to be removed by a chirurgical operation? A. The patient, having emptied bladder* is to be placed upon a table. An incifion is to be now made cautioufly, in a longi- tudinal direction, along the tumour. The * Congenial P<upture. Pott, I cellular114 Tumours from D if placement. cellular Jubilance is to be directed by pen- J O tie ftrokes until the peritoneal fac appears, which is now to be opened by gentle fcratches, to avoid hurting any of its con- tents. For fometimes the fpermatic veffels have been found on the anterior parts of the tumour, and fometimes die teftis con- tinues in the abdomen during life. As foon as an opening is made into the fac, it is ' dillinguilhed by a blunt probe, which eafily paffes in. if the fac be divided. The open- ing is to be enlarged fo as to admit of the fore-finger of the operator's left-hand to be i O i introduced, which ferves as a directory for conducting a ilraight probe-pointed fcalpel, with which the fac is to be divided through its whole length. The bowels are now to be examined, and if they are not in a gan- grenous f ate they are to be immediately returned into the abdomen. When ad- *• m hefions take place between the fac and bowels, they are to be cautioully feparated by the fingers alone. But when one portion of intefline adheres to another, no attempt is to be made to difengage them. When portions of the omentum adhere, greater freedomTumours from Difplacement. 115 freedom may be ufed in difengaging them. When it happens alfo to be in a mortified ftate, a portion of it may be removed by the ligature. When a portion of the in- teftines is found mortified, all that can be done, is to endeavour to produce an ad- hefion of the end of the inteftine above the mortified part to the external wound. The faeces may in this way, be, for a confider- able time, difcharged by the wound. But when a confiderable portion of the intef- tines is found mortified, all that can be done, is to remove the mortified part, and to draw, by means of ligature, the upper end within the under, and then to endea- vour, by a ligature, to retain them in this fituation, until an accretion of the Tides takes place. The chance of fucceeding in fuch a cafe, is exceedingly fmall. There are, however, fome cures related by authors, occurring in this manner. The bowels be- ing replaced, and the external wound drefs- ed with foft charpee, the patient is to be laid in bed in fuch a manner as to have the pelvis elevated above the trunk. The fuc- ceeding inflammation is to be cautioufly I 2 * guarded116 Tumours from Difplacement- guarded againft by a ftrift antiphlogiftic regimen. In performing this operation another method has been fuggefled by Monfieur Petite, and ftrongly recom- mended by Dr. Monro, of returning the bowels without opening the fac its whole length, but merely dilating the ring, or making a fmall cut into the neck of the fac, if the conflri&ion feems to take place there (which is often the cafe). By this method the contents of the fac are not expofed to the external air, and the high degree of in- flammation, which always attends the ex- pofure of the bowels to the external air, is prevented. O. Which of thefe two methods (O, 144) ought to be preferred ? A, When the ftrangulation is of fhort Handing, and when the conftriciion at the neck of the fac is the foie caufe of the failure in the reduction, and when we are 1 certain that mortification of the bowels has not as yet taken place, Monfieur Petite's method, of all others, ought to be prefer- red.*^r • oc cy Tumours from Displacement. 117 red. But when the hernia js of long (land- ing, and there is reafon to fufpeft ad- lieiions to take place betwixt the fac and bowels, or that mortification has already taken place, or that fome filaments run acrofs the fac and prevent the redu&ion, we are to lay open the fac. In fome cafes (irangulation takes place, not at the ring of the mufcle, but within the fac. Re- turning the fac unopened, in fuch a cafe, would be productive of no advantage, as the (Irangulation dill fubfifted. 4 A Q. 146. What prognom can be given of the operation for Hernia? A. The danger from the operation is not confiderable when it is performed - early. The danger always arifes from its being delayed too long, for in fome cafes mortification has enfued within twelve hours after the (Irangulation took place, while in others the (Irangulation has been known to fubfift for feveral days, and no mortification enfuing.* n8 Tumours from Difplacement. i HERNIA VENTRALIS*. Syn. Ventral Rupture. Q-147- What is a Ventral Hernia, and how is it to be treated? .A. It is a protrulion of fome of the bowels through the interftices of the muf. cles of the abdomen, owing to a partial debility of them, or to any violent exertion or injury, producing a lofs of continuity between them. Its varieties may be the fame as thofe of bubonocele (Q. 143); the ftomach may alfo protrude. The mode of treatment is exactly the fame as that recommended (Q. 142 and 144) for bubonocele. MEROCELE* . 1 \ Syn. Crural, Femoral Hernia. Q. 148. What is a Merocele ? A. It is a protrufion of the bowels in the * Hernia Abdomenalis, Plenck. t Merocele, Vogelius. Opodeocele, Sagarus• archTumours front D if placement. 119 arch below Paupert’s ligament, where the great blood vellels are tranfmitted to the thmh It arifes from the fame caufes as o » that of hernia in general, and its varieties are the fame with bubonocele (O. 143). „ • % ; . f ' v \ * O. iz|9. How is the Operation for Stran- gulated Merocele to be performed ? ' 1A. In performing this operation the greatefl caution is ne 1 number of confiderable blood velfels. The | firft incifion is to be made in an oblique direftion outwards, and in a line from the umbilicus. The ligament being brought in view, it is to be dire&ed by gentle \ fcratches until a thin lamella only remains, wh;ch is to be torn by the finger infefted below it. In this manner the femoral artery running below is avoided, and the ■ fpermatic velfels and epigaftric artery crofs- ing one another are in no danger of being touched. The bowels are now to be re-* duced by moderate prefiure, and retained by a bandage. But it mud be obferved. celfary to avoid a120 Tumours from Difptacement. as in bubonocele. A thin leathern ftrap covered with Tome adhefive plailler has been found to anfwef bed, m I EXOMPHALOCELE * Syn. Umbilical Hernia, Navel Rupture. l ' , Q, 150. How is the Operation for Stran- gulated Exomphalocele performed ? A. The operation is to be performed in the fame manner as recommended for bu- bonocele (O. 144). When this affeftion is the confequence of the gravid uterus, a cure is generally obtained as foon as delivery is effefted. When the affection occurs in young children, applying a bandage with fome folid body in the head of it, to aft. againfl the umbilicus, is found to prevent further protrufion of any of the bowels, after they have been once returned. * Exomphalos, Pott• Qniphalocele, Sagarus. HERNIATumours from Difplacement. 121 * » HERNIA OVULARIS* H ERNIA OF THE OvAL HOLE, THY- ROID Rupture. O. 151. How is the Operation for Stran- gulated Hernia of the Oval Hole performed? A. As there are confiderable blood- velfels tranfmitted through this hole, any portion of bowel flipping along with them, cannot be fo readily reduced, as the ufe of fharp-pointed inftruments cannot be ad- mitted with the fame propriety here as in other cafes of Hernia. It has been recom- mended, to dilate the opening by a blunt inftrument, fo as to effefl a redudion. ISCHIATOCELE* \ Syn, Ischiatic Rupture. Q. 152. What is an IJchiatocde; and how is it to le trea ted A. It is a protrufion of fome of the * Hernia Ovularis, Plenck. Enteroccle Ovularis, Vogelius. + Ifchiatocele, Vogelius. Hernia Ifchiatica, Plenck. Ifchi- ocele, Sagarus, bowelsI / • % H f ' I / 122 , Tumours from Displacement. bowels tli rough the Ifchiatic notch of the offa innominata. It is faid to be cured by re- 0 t duftion, as recommended for bubonocele (Q. 142 and 144.). ELYTROCELE * Syn. Vaginal Hernia. ♦ ■**- Q* 153- What is Elytrocele; and how is it to be treated ? % N , % , _ v’ A. It is a protrufion of the bowels, . through the vagina, owing to a fuppref- fion of urine. The bladder is fome- times found to protrude. When this oc- curs a fluctuation of water is perceptible to the touch. By evacuating the urine often, JO ~ fuch a kind of hernia is obviated, Itfhould be perfifted in for fome time, to prevent further returns of the afle&ion, and until the parts have fufficiently recovered their tone. Various fubftances have been re- I commended, to be introduced into the va- gina, to a£l againft, and refill the further protufion of the bowels. * Elytrocele, Vogelius. Hernia Vaginalis, Flenrh. Gen,I ■ ex ex Tumoursfrom Difplacement. 123 Gen, 9. PROLAPSUS*. 1 t HYSTEROPTOSISf. Prolapsus Uteri; falling DOWN OF THE WOMB. * *' ‘ A* O. 154. What is an Hyjleroptofis ? A. It is a falling out of the uterus, oc- cafioned by a relaxation of the ligamenta lata of the uterus, or by too much {train- ing during parturition, and is eafily difeo^ vered by the parts protruding beyond the vagina ; or, when the difeafe has not ad- vanced this length, by attending to the obliruction, $nd painful fenfation, occa- honed by the prolapfed parts. This affec- tion feldom occurs before child-bearing; and is, for the moft part, met with in ad- vanced life. / \ * O. 155. How is Hyjleroptojis to be cured ? A. Bv reducing the parts protruded by % Prolapfus, Lirtnccus, Cullenus, Savagefius. Gaubius. -* Kyfceroptofis, Sauvageftus, Vogdius, Sagarus. srentle124 Tumours from Difplacement. Q- 157 I . * gentle preffure, while the patient is in a horizontal pofture, and fupporting the part afterwards by pufferies, which ought lobe made of the lighteft materials, finely polifhed, and in fome degree comprelfible. Thefe are to be retained by a proper ban- dage, until the parts recover their tone, which is affe6ted by tonics, as wine, bark, and other astringent medicines. In this * way a cure is foon completed, if the pa- tient be young, and the affection of a re- cent nature. EXANIA* Syn. Prolapsus Ani. i Q 156- What are the caufes of Exania ? A. It may be occafioned by coftivenefs; by the action of irritating medicines, fuch as aloetics ; or owing to hemorrhoidal fwel- lings, (Q. 219.) or to any ftimulants ap- plied to the infide of the re£ium, fo as to increafe its action. * Exania, Sauva^efus, Sagarus.Tumours from Difplacement- 125 O. 157. How is Exania to be cured ? / A. By reduction as foon as pofiible, and by retention, by a proper bandage, fuch as the one invented by Mr. Gouch. The reduftion is to be effected by fupporting the tumour with the palm of one hand, while, with the forefinger of the other, the part of the gut Ifaft protruded is to be firfi introduced. The patient, during the reduftion, is to be kept in a reclined pof* ture. As foon as the bowels are returned, the bandage is to be applied. Such reme- dies, as tend to recover the tone of the parts moll readily, are to be ufed. When the precluded parts become inflamed, from being expofed to the air, before attempting a redufiion, the inflammation is to be al~ leviated by an antiphlogiftic regimen (Q- s.). / , • f I . C PARAGLOSSE* Q. 158. What is a Par agioffe ? A. it is a retroverfion of the tongue into * ParaglofTe, Sauvagefius. Lingua Iaflafioj Galoius* Linguae Extrufio, Gaubius, the125 Tumours fi om Difplacement. r the fauces, and almoft occafioning fuloca- tion by its preffure upon the epiglottis. The affeflion is, for the moft part, acci- dental, and by introducing the forefinger of the right hand, into the fauces below it, can be eafily returned into its natural fituation. HYPO ST A PHYLE *. Falling down of the Pap of the Throat. A. It is an elongation, or enlargement of the uvula, occafioned either by inflamma- tion produced by catarrh, or owing to a paralyfis of it. O. 160. How is Hypojlaphyle to be treated ? > A. Aftringent gargles have been re- * Hypoftaphyle, Sauvagejius. Cafus Uvulae, Dioners. Inflammatio Uvulae, Celfus. Prolapfus Uvulae, Nentcrus, CEdoma Uvulae, Gortcrus. Uvulae Nimium Produ&a, Hdjler, 1 commended.I ' I I Tumours from Displacement. 127 commended, to allay the inflammation, if prefent, and to increafe the tone of the parts. When the affe&ion does not yield to fuch remedies, .and diftreffing irritation is occafioned in the throat, fo as to pro- duce conftant cough and vomiting, it is to be removed altogether, by a ligature palled round its root, fo as to obftruft the circu- lation in the uvula, by tightening the liga- ture. In a fhort time it begins to mortify, and then drops off. i, ■ 1 / EXOPHTHALMIA*. , j Protrusion of the Eye beyond the 1 Socket. •' ' ■ * / * » * Q. 161- What is cm Exoiothahnia ? -W I _ • \ A. It is a protrufion of the Eye-Ball be- yond its Socket, occafioned by abfcefles (Q. 60.), dropfical fwellings of the eye (Q. 94.), tumour laying behind the eye, fuch as, an enlargement of the lachrymal ' > ^ — ^ * Exophthalrnia, Sauvagejius, gland; , '128 Tumours from Difplacement* gland ; or it may be pulhed out of its flot- ation by external violence. Q. 162. How is a cafe of Exopthahnia to be cured ? A. When the ball of the eye is preter- naturally enlarged, by water or pus formed within its cavity, it is to be treated in the fame manner as recommended (Q. 61. 95.) for the removal of fuch affeftions. When tumours are found to be the occafion of the protrufion, thev are to be removed, and then a reduction is eafily compleated. When the eye is pulhed out by external vio- lence, if the optic nerve is not divided, the eye is to be immediately replaced, and the fucceeding inflammation is to be guarded o o againfl by a ft rift antiphlogiftic regimen, EXTROPIUM* Q. What is Extropium ? \ A. It is a gaping out of the eye-lids, / * Blepharoptores, Sauvagefiuss $agarus* Extropium, Linnaeus^ Vogelius. owingw *^t- ■* CX C* Tumours from Difplacement, * owing to an enl argement of the ball of the eye, by dropfical fwelling (Q. 94.), or to a lax- ity of the part in old age. It may arife alfo from the cicatrix of an old wound, or ab- fcefs: Hence it is frequently the confer quence of the fmall-pox* - * ' * k Q. 164. How is a cafe of Extropium to be treated ? r V A. The method of cure mull, in a great mealure, depend upon the caufes inducing the complaint. When it is the confequence of dropfical fwelling of the eye, nothing anfwers fo well as fcarifying or pun£iuring the part. When it arifes from inflamma- tion, the antiphlogiftic regimen (Q. 8.) is to be ufed. When from laxity, owing to old age, aflringent and tonic remedies are to be ufed ; and when from an old cica- trix, nothing anfwers fo well as a divifion of the contrafted flan, by the knife, endea- vouring, at the fame time, to prevent in- flammation as much as poflible. K BtfTRO-Tumours from Difplacement. 13° ENTROPIUM*. • '/ i f ‘ * \ '* Q- 165. JT/W A Entropium ? - A. It is an inverfion of the ciliac of the (= eye, owing to a fpafmodic contra&ion, or to a conftriCiion of fome of the fibres of the orbicularis mufcle, pufiling the hairs of the eye-lafhes againfl the eye-ball, and is productive of much uneafmefs. Tumours prelfing upon the palpebra?, or a relaxation of the fkin itfelf, may have this effect alfo. ' #. , * Mi 1 v 4 ' ' ' ' ■ . " ' • 5 ; * Q. 166. IIow is a Cafe of Entropium to be cured ? A - - - - » • • • A, The method of cure is the fame as that recommended (0.164.) for Extropium. When the uneafmefs of the affeflion arifes merely from a derangement among the hairs themfelves, they are to be plucked by the root with a final 1 forceps, and the I * Blepharoptoris, Sauvagejlus: S agar us. Entropium-, Vogclius« x directionK 2 upon ~T Tumours from Dijplacement. 131 l t dire&ion of the new ones regulated by fome adhefive plaifler, fixing them to the pal* pebrax Gen. io. LUXATIO* \ Syn. Dislocation. Q. 167. What are, the Diagnojlic Symft- toms of Luxation in general ? / . A. A degree of inflammation always takes place, the pain attending which is fometimes fo acute, as to occafion convul- five and fpafmodic affeftions, by the com- preflion of the nerves upon the part, by the difplaced ends of the bones. The lhape of the joint is much altered, and the mo- tion of the limb much impaired. O. 168. What prognofs fiould- be given of Luxations in general? A. The prognofis muft always depend * * Luxatio, Linnaeus, Vogelius, Cuilenus, Heijlerus, Vil* am Exarfbrcma, Diaftafis, Savaugefius9 Sagans,ig2 Tumours from Displacement. upon the ftrufture of the joint; the degree of violence producing the affection ; the lucceedmg inflammatory fvmptoms, and duration of the injury. After dislocations have fubfifted for feme time, the focket di- minifhes in fize, and fo cannot receive the end of the diflocated bone. The reduc- tions is more difficult in young; than in el- derly perfons, owing to the flrength of the rnufcles being greater in young perfons. O. 169. Hozo are Dijlocations in general to be treated? A. The luxated part is to be exa&fy replaced in its former natural fituation, It is to be retained in this (fate, until the fur- rounding parts have recovered their tone, b\ a proper bandage ; and any fymptom tending to prevent the cure is to jbe obvi- ated. In oiyler to render the reduftion eafy, the whole of the rnufcles furrounding a joint, are to be relaxed as much as pof- fible, the diflocated ends of bones are to be immediately difengaged from the conti- guous aTumours from Dijplacement. 133 guous bones, or from any unnatural cavity in which they may be lodged or grafped. To do this, moderate extenfion is necef- fary ; but this can never be attempted witli propriety, fo long as the diflocated bone is detained by a projefting procefs of another bone. When the bone is, however, fuf- ficiently difengaged, it fprings immediately into its natural place, by the aftion of the contiguous mufcles. When the inflamma- tory fymptoms run high, and when the lwelling is confiderable, reduftion of difio- cated bones is never to be attempted, until thefe in fome meafure fubfide. t \ 0 OSSIUM CAPITIS* 1 Syn. Luxation of the Bones of the Head. * Q. 270. How is Luxation of the Bones of the Head to be treated ? A. When the futures divide from one ano- * Diaftafis Raphica, Sauvagcfms, Diaohalafis, Vo re- Has, k 3 ther,534 Tumours from Difplacement♦ ther, all that can be done is, to replace them as clofe together as poffible, and to endeavour to retain them, by applying a proper bandage round the head, » i OSSIUM NASI*. ^ Y * . Bones of the Nose, Q. iyi. Hozois Luxation of the Bones of the Nofe to be treated ? A. When one of the bones have been elevated above the other, it is to be depref- fed by the finger, until it is an a level with the other. When one of them is depref- fed within the noftrils, it is to be aftifted by the end of a fpatula, and kept in this fituation by means of a tube, covered with lint, palTed into the noftrils, and fecured by a proper bandage, fo as to allow refpi- ration to go on freely. * Diailafis Hamonica, Sauvagcjius, Diaftafis O.fiium Nafi, Lcvret. * s \ OSSIST * ex cy Tumours from Difplacement. 13 j OSSIS MAXILLiE INFERIORIS. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw. O. 172. How is a Di/location of the Lozver fare to be treated ? A. As this Diflocation can only happen forwards and downwards, the reduftion of it is to be affe&ed by paffing both thumbs, well covered with linen cloth, into the mouth, the head being previoufly well fe- cured by an affiflant. The jaw is now to be pufhed forward and downward, until it is entirely difengaged from the ofla mali. As foon as this is effefted, the bone, by gentle preffure, will immediately fpring back into its natural fituation by the aftion of the mufcles : the thumbs are to be immediately withdrawn; when one fide is only luxated, the prelfure, in difengaging the bones, is to be applied to the luxated fide only. xa OSSIUM *ig6 Tumours from Difplacement. 4 V * OSSIUM CAPITIS eWCOLLI. Bones of the Head and Neck. Q-173- How is a cafe of Dijlocation of the Bones of the Head and Neck to be treated ? A. The patient being laid on a bed* the furgeon is to raife the head gradually from the chin* until it is in a ftraight line with the body* which is to be fupported by an affifiant. The furgeon now gradually ex- tends the head. As foon as a crack is heard* the diflocation is reduced* and the furgeon is to defift from extending any further. The patient is now to be laid down in the bed* and the head is to be fupported by a proper bandage. ' 'OSSIUM SPIN M. Luxation of the Spine. O. 174. How are Difocations of the Spine to be dijl iguified? \ 1 " \ *■ . A. By the degree of violence producing them.Cx cx — T~ -—Tr ' Tumours from Displacement. 137 them, which mud, in every cafe,be very con* fiderable, before a luxation of the vertebrae takes place; by a degree of paralyfis af- fefting the whole of the parts below the in* jured place ; by a total lupprelfion, or in- voluntary difcharge of urine and fceces; and by the diverted ftate of the body, a diag- nofis may be formed of the nature of the affeftion. Q. 175. Hors are Luxations of the Spine to be treated ? s A. When the vertebras are puOied in* wards, (which is the moil common manner they can be luxated) after bending the body gently over a calk, the bone generally re* gains its natural fituation. Some have ad- o vifed to make an mcifion upon the luxated part, and to lay hold of the fpinous procefs of the bone with a forceps, and fo pull it gently into its fituation. When the os faernm is luxated, it is to be treated in the fame manner. When the os coccygis is luxated, whether from external violence, or from a laborious delivery, it is to be reduced, by introducing338 Tumours from Dfplacement, introducing one of the fingers into the rec- tum, and by addling with the fingers of the other hand, on the outfide, ufinsr at the fame time moderate predure, OSSIS CLAVICULI. Syn. Luxation or the Collar Bone. t v Q. 176. How is a Luxation of the Collar Bone to be treated? \ » A. It is eafily reduced by preffure with the fingers, and fhould be kept in its fitu- ition by a proper bandage, taking care at the fame time not to raife the arm, as its weight ferves to keep the bone in its place. This affettion feldom occurs. OSSIUM COSTARUM. Syn. Luxation of the Ribs, Q. 177. How is a Cafe of Dflocation of the Ribs to be treated? A. As this fpecies of diflocation can only take 1f Tumours from Difplacement. 139 take place inwards, little can be done to relieve it. Laying the patient forward on a cafk, while at the fame time the vertebrae are pufhed inwards, will fometimes anfwer. When the bones can be replaced in this manner, they are to be kept in their fitua- tion by the application of a proper ban- dage applied round the trunk with fueh ilraimefs as not tp incommode refpiration. OSSIS HUMERI. Syn. Luxation of the Shoulder. 1 Q. 178. In what direction do Luxations of the Humerus mojl commonly take place ? A. This mull in a great meafure depend upon the manner the injury is inflitied. In general, however, diflocations of this hone take place in that direction where it meets with lefs refinance. Hence it is more frequently into the axilla, where the end of the bone forms a tumour. The bone can never be pufhed upwards with- out a f rat lure of the acromion. This may. m140 Tumours from Difplacemcnt. * • in Tome cafes, happen, when the perfon happens to fall upon the ulna, or when a ftroke is given to the bone upwards. Dif- iocations of the humerus fometimps alfo take place downwards and backwards. i * O. 179. How is a Dislocation of the Hu- merus reduced ? A. This mud depend upon the fituation of the head of the luxated bone. In every cafe of dillocation of the humerus, the rule laid down (Q.169.) for difiocation in general is to be obferved, by difengaging the bone from any projecting proeefs of the conti- guous foft parts. Various machineries have been invented and recommended for dib locations of the humerus. Some for ex- tending the arm, and others for reducing it by prefiure. Of the latter kind, is the roll- ing-pin placed in the axilla for raifmg the end of the bone. A towel palled below the diOocated limb, and round the burgeon’s neck, is of this kind alfo; but it is evident foch can have no c fie ft, unlefs the bones are firft fufficiently difengaged. Another method lias been recommended, of making thec* cx N Tumours from Displacement. 141 the furgeon fit upon the ground, to prefs the end of the bone into its place, by his heel, while, with both hands, he extends die arm of the patient. To produce the neceflary degree of diftenfion, various methods and different machinery have been recommend- ed; fuch as fufperiding the patient by the arm on a ladder, or the top of a door ; rail- ing the patient, by the arm and leg, f rom a feather bed, laid on the floor, by means of puliies, fecured in the roof of the room by fixing a knot on the rope: A fuddcn jerk is occafioned, when the knot mm as at die puily, upon letting the rope run. The arm has been, in this manner, reduced, alter every other method had failed, it is to be ob- ferved, however, that the extenfion of the arm ought to be made in the mod gradual manner. When the luxation is of fhort duration, after fir ft fecuring the fcapuke, and relaxing the mufeies of the arm properly, as the tendon of the biceps mufcle, pafiing along in the grove of the bone, is often the occaiion of the bone’s not finding ready accels into its natural fituation. The force of one arm of the furgeon, in diftending, is 1 fufficient142 Tumours from Difplacement* fufficient in many cafes. When greater extenfion is, however, neceffary, it may be obtained by afliftant pullies or by Mr. Treaks inflrument. As foonasthe bone has hipped into its place a crack is heard, and the patient is fuddenly relieved. The arm now fhould be fupported by a proper fling until the parts have fafficiently recovered their tone. OSSIS ULNTC. \ Elbow Jo INT. G. 180. In what direction do Luxations of v/ the Ulna mojl commonly take place ? A. They happen upwards and back- wards. When the former takes place, the bone is on the anterior part of the humerus, and. when the latter occurs, the olacranon is on the back part of the humerus. Q. 181. How is Dijlocation of the Ulna to be treated? A. When the diflocation happens back- wards, the mufcles are to be relaxed as muchTumours from Difplacement. 143 much as poflible ; then a gradual extension is to be made, at the fame time moderately bending the arm, in proportion to the ex- tension. In this manner a reduftion is » effefled. But when the dillocation takes place upwards, the extenlion mull be made in a flraiid'it direction, and the arm is not O 7 to be bended. When the extenfion is fo considerable., that the bones of the arm have already parted the loweft part of the hu- merus, by relaxing the extenlion, the bones are immediately brought into their proper fituation, by the action of the mufcles. As boon as the reduction is in this manner com- pleted, the arm is to be moderately bent, in an unconfirained and moderately curved porture. When the ulna and radius are diflocated from one another, after reducing them, they are to be kept together by two fplints, and the arm is to be fupported by a proper fling hung round the neck. OSSIUM144 Tumours from Diffilacement, OSSIUM METACARPI, CARPI, ET DIGITORUM MANUS. . * « Q. 182. How are Di/locations of the Mieta- carpal, Carpal, and Bones of the Fingers to be treated ? A. After ftretching the arm upon a table the furgeon is to endeavour to pufh the bones of the carpus into their natural « lituation. The bones of the metacarpus are to be treated in the fame manner. When any of the fingers are difiocated* after fecuring the phalynx, from whence the diflocation happened, by an affifiant the furgeon is gradually to extend the other phalynx, after he has previoufly railed it from the contiguous bone. V ' , ; OSSIS FEMORIS. Syn. Luxation of the Thigh Bone. Q. 183. In what manner do Luxations of the Os Femoris mojlfrequently take place? A. They occur upwards and forwards, downwardsTumours from Difplaceinenl. 145 downwards and forwards, and dire&ly downwards. When the firft of thefe occur. * • ^ y the ligament is fhortened, and the head of the bone lies upon the olfa pubis. The great trocanter is alfo felt on the anterior part of the thigh, and a vacancy is obferved in the aeetabulum. When the fecond variety occurs, the head of the bone is 0 pufhed into the foramen ovale. This is the mo ft frequent kind of luxation. In this ftate the leg appears longer, than in the natural ftate. The end of the femur is felt in the foramen ovale, and the knees and toes are turned outwards. ’ Q. 184. How is Difocation of the Os Femoris dijlinguified from a Fradure of the Neck of the Bone ? 1 A. Befides the ufual fymptoms of fraC* ture the leg is much {hotter, owing to the bone being pufhed upwards, by accidents of this kind occurring from falls on the knees. But in diflocations of the thigh joint the leg is, for the moll part, confider- ably lengthened, the toes are turned out- wards, a vacancy is obferved at the feat 1, ofOSSIS \ 14 6 Tumours from Difplaccment. I of the acetabulum, and a tumour from the round end of the bone, is felt in the groin. O. 185. Row are Di/locations of the Os Fcmoris to be treated ? A. When the head of the bone gets into the foramen ovale, the firfl: ftep in the re- duction is, to endeavour to relax the mufcles as much as poffible. Then by moderate extenfion to endeavour to difengage the end of the bone from its cavity. As foon as this is effeCied, the bone is to be drawn up- wards and inwards into its focket. A re- duction is in this manner generally effected. Unlefs the end of the bone be above the acetabulum, no extraordinary extenfion is neceffary. But when the want of fuccefs in the reduction is owing to a projecting por- tion of the acetabulum laying hold of the bone and preventing the neceffary extenfion> the bone is to be elevated above this pro- jecting part fo as to difengage it, and the' redu&ion is then eafiJy eifeCted.147 Tumours from Difplacement. OSSIS PATELLA. O. 186. How is a Luxation of the Patella to be treated? / A. As diflocations of the patella occur in various directions, according to the man* ner the injury is inflicted, the mode of treat- ment mull vary a little. In reduction of the patella, in general, the leg is to be ex- tended, and after elevating the bone a little* it is to be pulhed into its natural fituation* and retained by> a bandage contrived for that purpofe* OSSIUM TIBI/E ET FIBULAE. 1 . / , £•187. How are Diflocations of the Tibia &nd Fibula to be treated ? A. When the tibia is by fome external violence feparated from the fibula, all that can be done, is to replace them as nearly as poffible in the natural fituation, and to re- tain them afterwards by proper bandages. * t 2 188.148 Tumours from Difplacement. Q. 188- How is Luxation of the Kn'ee* Joint to be treated? * % A. Compleat taxation of the knee-joint feldom happens, as it requires a confider- able degree of violence to produce even a partial diflocation of thefe bones, owing to their being fo ftrongly connected by con- hderable ligaments* When a diflocation of the knee occurs, it is to be reduced by relaxing the mufcles, and difengaging the bones. The inflammatory fymptoms, at- tending this diflocation, are to be parti- cularly guarded againft by a ft rift anti- phlogiflic regimen, as it hath been known to prove in fome cafes fatal. OSSIUM MALLEOLI, TARSI ET METATARSI. Q. 189. In what direction do Luxations of the Ancle-Joint take place? m A. They may occur in any direction. When they take place outwards, a frafture of the end of the fibula is occasioned. When the diflocation takes place forward thecx « Tumours from T)fplacement. 149 * * ' . . jr / the foot is lengthened; and when it occurs backwards, the heel is fhort^ned. \ s O. lgo. How are Dijlocations of the Ancle, and of the Bones of Tarfus and Toes to be treated? A. As diflocations of the ancle-joint occur mod: frequently, by the aftralagus being forced inwards, moderately extend- ing the leg anfwers bed, after the mufcles have previoudy relaxed. The os calcis is to be reduced in the fame manner. The bones of the tarfus, metatarfus, and toes are to be treated, as recommended for the bones of the fingers fO, 182).I s'* f C. *5° -] Ord. chronicus. Gen. XI. GLANDULOSA, SCIRRHUS* • * Q. lgi. What is a Scirrhus ? A. It is a hard fwelling, chiefly affecting the conglobate glands, at firfl of an indolent nature, but afterwards attended with (harp lancinating pains and heat, terminating fornetimes in an ulcer, which difcharges a thin acrid matter, excoriating the neigh- bouring parts, and arifing from fome fault of the conflitution, or from fome local eaufe, fuch as obflruftion of a gland by inflammation (Q. 2). It is always at firft of a local nature. / Q. ig2. How is Scirrho- Cancer to be treated ?, A. No medicine has been as yet clif~ covered that will cure this affeftion. Va- rious remedies have been recommended, , t * Scirrhus, Saiwagefats, Linnceus, Vogdius, Cullcnus. fuel?Chronic Tumours. 151 inch as arfenic, cicuta, hyofcyamus, and many others, which injure the conflitution materially, and are attended with very little effedh The only method of cure is to remove the difeafed parts completely by the knife, when it can be executed with • propriety, and confident with life; efpeci- ally if the difeafe has not already made confiderable progrefs, and if one part of the body only is affected. Removing a portion of the difeafed parts feems to do an effential injury, as experience has difcovered, that the admiffion of cool air, into fcirrhous fwellings, haftens very much their pernici- ous effedis upon the fyftem. No operation,, therefore, for the removal of fcirrhous tu- mours is to be attempted, except when the whole of the difeafed parts can be re- lieved. Var.A. SARCOCELE* Syn. Scirrhous Testicle, Q. 193. What is a Sarcoccle ? A. It is a fcirrhofity of the teRicle, and is * Sarcocele, Vogtlius, Plat nor us. l 4 diftinguilhed -152 Chronic Tumours. diftinguifhed from inflammation of the teflicle by Q, 16, and from hernia by Q. 138, It is readily diftinguilhed from a venereal fwelling of the teflicle by its not yielding to a long continued courfe of mercury, and by its being afterwards ac^ companied by the fymptoms of fcirrhus (Q. 191). What are the Caujes oj Sar- cocele ? I . 4 • A. From a venereal taint a degree of fchirrofity is produced, which is faid to be of the worft kind, Hydrocele of the tu- nica vaginalis is faid to be another caufe of fcirrhus. External violence, inflam- matory fwelling of the teflicle arifmg from fymp&thy, as from ulceration of the blad- der, and often after the operation of litho- tomy. Q. 195* What prognojis can be given of Sar cocele ? A. The fucceft of the cure is greater in young than in old perfons. If the difeafe has fubfifted for a long time, without in- 1 creafmgChronic Tumours. 153, ereafing to any extraordinary fize; it is fuppofed not to be fo virulent. When ulceration has taken place on the tefticle, the chance of fuccefs is lefs. When it is alfo in confequence of a blow, it is difficult to difcufs; and when the patient is of a pale and weakly conftitution the danger is more considerable, particularly when knots appear on the furface of the tefticle. The fuccefs of an operation for the cure depends upon its being performed early. For when we are certain the whole of the difeafe cannot be removed by the knife no ope- ration i$ to be attempted. / Q. 196. How is the Operation for the re- moval of Sarcacele executed ? A. After placing the patient in a proper pofture, an incifion is to be made along the courfe of the fpermatic chord to the inferior part of the ferotum. As foon as the fpermatic chord is laid bare, it is to be furrounded by a ligature, which is to aft as a tourniquet during the reft of the opera- tion. The chord is now to be divided be- low the ligature, and the tefticle is then to beI 154 Chronic Tumours, be differed out from the neighbouring parts by a common fcalpel. This being finifhed, the knot of the ligature upon the chord is to be untied, until the veifels of the chord are feen and feeured. The ligature, acting as a tourniquet, is ftili to be allowed to re- main, furrouH ‘ing the chord ; as, by tight- pruning it, any fudden hemorrhagy occurring is eai ly c bviated. The lips of the wound are now to be applied clofe together, and be cpvered by a quantity of foft charpee, and die whole is to be fupported by a proper bandage, and the patient laid in bed. When pain or tenfion c f the abdomen oc- curs, warm fomentations are to be applied to the region of the abdomen, and poultices to the lore above the lint. • w *, . * - • - * 1 Var. B. MAMMAE* Sci" RHUS OF THE BREAST. ' ' , I O. 197. How is Scirrkus of ike Mammas- difiinguifie'' ? A. When find it is obferved, it may be, * per, $ Maftodynia Cancrofa, Sauvagefius. Cancer Mamma- rum, Cajlrot \ 3 4 / . • f. Chronic Tumours, Q- 3 93* 355 4 perhaps, as fmall as a walnut. It may con- tinue, in this hate, for feveral months. By degrees, however, it acquires the fize of the fih, and may continue in this hate alfo hationary for fome years. At lah, however, a gnawing pain is felt, of a hot lancinating nature, hiooting towards the axilla. Upon examining the a urfe of the lymphatics, the glands at the edge of the pefloral mufcle are fometimes found hardened, alfo thofe of the axilla, which in fome cafes are found very much enlarged. The difeafe, at this period, fometimes gets the denomination of Occult Cancer. By degrees the (kin, covering the tumour in the Mam- mae, Becomes difcoloured, and at lah an ulceration takes place, when the difeafe is faid to terminate in an Open Cancer. Violent hemorrhages now often enfue, from the acrimony of the matter dif- charged corroding the veffels of the part. The excruciating pains are hill aggravated, and the patient is at lah cut off within the fpace of a yean 1 ^ -• j15S Chronic Tumours. x # » Q. 198. Hozo is a Scirrhus of the Mam- mce to be treated ? A. By removing the difeafed parts, by an operation, a cure is fometimes obtained. But it is evident, (Q. 192.), that this can never be with propriety attempted, whei*e there is not a polhbility of removing the whole of the difeafed parts completely. The (late of the glands above the clavicle, and thofe of the neck and axilla, are to be particularly attended to. Q. 199. Hozo is the Operation for the Extirpation of the Scirrhus Mammae exe- cuted ? A. The patient fhould be laid in a ho- rizontal pafture, and the burgeon feated. A tranfverfe incifion is then to be made, beginning at the axilla, and extending it nearly to the cartilago enfiformis. The integuments being differed oil the Mam- mae, on both lides of the incifion, the glan- dular jubilance is to be detached from the peftoral mufcle ; or, ii it is found to adhere very firmly, a portion of the pectoral mufcle157 Chronic Tumours. mufcle may be diffecled out along with it. The furgeon fliould begin to detach the glandular part, at the fternum, and inferior part of the Mammas, fo that the part next the axilla comes to be the lafl to be divided. By this means the dividing of the principal blood-vefiels is delayed, until the laft ftroke of the operation. The bleeding arteries being now fecured, and the clotted blood accurately removed by a fponge, the integuments are to be brought over the wound, and retained by adhehvc {traps. The ends of the ligatures, that fe- cured the bleeding veffels, are to be allowed to hang out between the lips of the wound. Nodrelhngs are to be applied between the integuments and furface of the fore. The wound is to be covered by pledgets of emollient ointment, and the whole of the dreffmgs are to be fecured by a fcapulary bandage. When fuppuration has formed* and has continued for fome time, when the 'wound is near healed, an iffue fliould be inferted in the arm of the oppofite fide. Var. Vi58 Chro nic Tumours. Var. C. PROSTATE. \ ' . fr Sc IRRHUS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND* Q. 200. How is a Scirrhus of the Pro- fate Gland to be treated? A. When Scirrhofities of the Proflate Gland occur, little can be done for their removal. Cicuta may be ufed for fome time : when it arifes from a venereal com- plaint, mercury may have fome eHefi. A removal of it by the knife feems imprac- ticable. Var. D; UTERI. Syn. Cancer of the Uterus. i o. 201. Ho w zs a Scirrhus of the Uteruk to be treated ? A. When Scirrhus of the Uterus occurs little can be done for its removal. Cicuta^ and the other remedies recommended for Scirrhus in general, may be ufed with ad- vantage. Var.J59 Chronic Tumour£. VaR. E. LINGUAL O. 202. How is a Cancer of the Tongue to be treated? t v + , * A. When a fmall portion only of the Tongue is affedled, it is to be removed. This being a formidable operation, is fel- dom attempted* When, however, recourfe is had to it, the greateft attention is necef- fary in reftraining the hemorrhagy, by tak- ing afiringent folutions into the mouthy and by ufing the other methods which are found mold effe&ual in preventing hemorr* hagy. VaR. F. LAB1I INFERIORIS. Q. 203. How is a Scirrho-Cancer of the Lower Lip to be treated9 A, By removing the difeafed portion by excifion, when it happens to be of a final! fize. The furgeon is to endeavour to cut it out in a triangular form, having the in- feriorn 160 Chronic Tumours. 1 ' ferior angle, if poffible, in the middle of the chin. As foon as the difeafed portion is, in this way, removed, the edges of the wound are to be brought into contaft, and kept in this ftate, by the twilled future, until a cure is completed, Var. g. bulbi oculi* O. 204. How is a Scirrho-Cancer of the Eye-Ball to be treated? A. The extirpation of the dileafed eye* ball feems to be the only remedy that can be depended on, particularly when it is performed early. The operation is exe-^ cuted, by laying the patient on a table, with his head a little railed with a pillow* When the ball is fo much enlarged as to protrude, the furgeon may lay hold of it by his fingers, and he is to feparate it from all the parts with which it is connefted, taking care, at the fame time, as much as * Opthalmia Cancrofa, Sauvagefius* brarum, St. Ives, Cancer Palpe^ <tOH • 4 .(Q3 Chronic Tumours. 161 poffible, to avoid touching the bones of the orbit, which are fometimes extremely thin. The eye being in this manner diffefcied out, the hemorrhage is to be fuppreffed by a flight degree of preffure with a fponge, having a piece of packthread fixed to it, to effeft its removal. Should it happen to adhere very firmly to the orifices of the bleeding veffels, as foon as the wound heals up, the deformity may be in fome meafure obviated, by wearing artificial eyes made of filver, gold, or glafs; but the irritation* arifing from fuch, is in danger of reproduc- ing the difeafe. It is chiefly in cafes of flaphyloma, where part of the humours of the eye, have been evacuated, that fuch can be ufed with any propriety. SCR OP HULA*/ ' ■ Syn. 'King’s Evil. Q. 205. What are the Diagnojlic Symptoms cj Scrophula ? A. There is generally a fwelling of the 1 * Scrophula, Sauvagefius, Vogclius, Sagarus, Cullenus. m . conglo-V •* i62 Chronic Tumours. \ ' - conglobate glands of the neck, an enlarged upper lip, fine fmooth fkin, blue eyes, and florid countenance. The fwelling of the glands is, for the moil part, of an indo- lent and indurated nature, and is generally hereditary. Q. 206. WhetherJhould Scrophulous Tu- mours be brought to fuppuration, or their rcfolutiori attempted P A. As thedifeharge from Scrophulous Tu- mours cannot, by any means as yet known, be converted into proper pus, all poultices, and warm topical applications, favouring fuppuration, are to be avoided ; and the ufe of fea bathing, and change of climate, are to be recommended. Mercury may have fome effefl in curing the difeafe. Q. 207. When Matter has once formed in Scrophulous Tumours, are they to be opened, or allozoed to burf of themfelves ? A. As fcrophulous fores are very diffi- cult of healing, fcrophulous tumours fhould 3 nevert Chronic Tumours. 163 never be opened, except when they are fitu- ated upon any of the large joints; becaufe matter being allowed to remain within the capfuiar ligament of a joint, might, at laft, (often the bone. When fcrophulous tumours are fituated on the thorax, and when mat- ter has formed within them, they are alio to be opened, to prevent the matter from get- ting accefs inwards among the lungs. Var. SCROPHULA ARTICULARIS* Syn. White Swelling of the Joint. O. 208. How is a Swelling of the Joint from Scropkula dijlinguijhed from that pro- diiced by Rheumatifn. I * * s' ' * A. In the fcrophulous white fwelling of the joint, the pain is more acute, and more confined to one place, which is generally the middle of the joint. Very little fwelling is obferved at firft; but, in courfe of time, the bones, forming the joint, come to be enlarged, and varicofe veins appear on the ♦ * Fungus Articulorum, Heijicrus. Hydarthus Synoviales, Simpjon, Anchylofis, Linnceus, m 2 fur-*s 1^4 Chronic Tumours. furface. After thefe fymptoms have conti- nued for feme time, finufes begin to form, and a foetid matter begins to be difeharged, upon the bones growing carious. At the feme v time a diarrhea takes place. At laft heftic fever, and night fweats come on, fo as to exhauft the patient altogether, in a fhort time. > «#■ O. 209. How is White Swelling, from Scropkula, to be treated? A, No remedy has been yet difeovered capable of curing1 Scrophula ; fo that very little can be done for the cure of fcrophulous fwellings of the joints. Frielions with mer- cury upon the part are recommended. The of emollient poultices, to the joint, become in certain cafes neceffary. After every attempt has been perfevered in for fome time, and the difeafe flill advances,, the limb muff be removed to preferve life. IRON- . KChronic Tumours, 165 BRONCHOCELE* v \ * ' V o. 210. What is a Bronchocde ? A. Any tumour on the anterior part of the neck, whether aneurifmal (O. m.) or of the melieeris kind, has been termed v bronchocele. The theroid gland is fome- times enlarged from fcrophula, fo as to obftruft refpiration. In this ftate the difeafe has got the denomination of Gouetre, and , is fuppofed to arife fometimes from the water of fnow O. 211. How is Bronchocele to be treated ? A. It has been generally advifed to re- move the theroid gland by an operation. No attempt of this kind ought ever to be made, unlefs the cafe is fuch as to endan- ger the patient s life. In fome Cafes, when it acquires a very large fize, it is to be re- moved with the greateft caution, as it is plentifully fupplied with very confiderable * Bronchocele, Sauvagefms, Vogdius, Trochelophyma, Sagarus. i Bronchocele Botium, -Bonealius« m 3 arteries, \166 Chronic Tumours. arteries, and is contiguous to very conft- derable blood-veffels and nerves. In the early ftages of the affehtion, friftion with mercury may have fome effect. The intro- du ft ion of a feton, with a blunt probe, through the tumour, to avoid wounding any of the confiderable blood-veffels, may be at- tended alfo with advantage. From the difeharge occafioned by it, the tumour may probably fhrink. Gen. XII. CARNE A, POLYPUS* . \ * r Q. 212. What is a Polypus? A. It is a flefhy, indolent, fomewhai round, tumour, adhering, by one or more roots, to fome of the internal cavities of the body ; as in the pharynx, nofe, cefo- phagus, meatus auditorius, and in the va- gina. For the mod part, however, they appear to originate from the pharynx, and * Polypus, Vogtlias. inferiorChronic Tumours. 167 inferior part of the ofTa fpongiofa; and fometimes they occupy both noftrils. O. 213.' What are the Caafcs of Polypi? A. Venereal affefiions and fcrophula are faid to be a predifpofing caufe of polypi. For the moft part they arife from fome local injury. Whatever tends to produce an in- flamed ftate of the nofe, as catarrh, haftens < 'm their growth. A caries of fome of the bones of the nofe, is found to be the occa- fion of the hardeft kind of polypi. O. 214. What Prognofs can be given of Polypi in general ? A. The chief danger arifes, in Polypi, from their impeding deglutition and refpira- tion, when they happen to fall back into the fauces; and from their fize, which is fome- ' times fo confiderable, as to feparate afunder the bones of the nofe. There is alfo a chance of their turning out cancerous. With re- fpect to the cure of polypi, it is always more difficult, in proportion to the iirmnefs of the polypi. The fofter the polypi are the m 4 ealier )168 Chronic Tumours. eafier and with the lefs danger they are to be removed. > . / * O. 215. How arc Polypi to be treated? A. As long as polypi, of any kifid, re- main ftationary, they are not to be touched. But when they continue to grow, aftringent applications and fcarifications are to be ufed. When this fails, to prevent their growth, they are to be removed altogether. O. 215. What is the bejt method of re- moving Polypi from the Nofe and Fauces ? A. In removing tumours in other parts of the body, excifion with the knife is ge- nerally preferred ; and fhould be alfo em- ployed in removing polypi, were it practi- cable ; but the fituation of polypi is often fuch, as to render the application of the knife inadmiffible; recourfe is therefore had to the ligature, which anfwers equally well. The root of the polypus is to be furrounded by the ligature, which ought to be a piece of wire 01 catgut. This liga- ture■ 4'<33 Chronic Tumours. 1 ; » ture is to be introduced into the pharynx, through the noftril, by means of a double tube, having the ligature pafTed previoufly through it. The wire is to be gradually pufhed into the pharynx, through the tube, until it appear in the mouth. The furgeon is, then, to lay hold of the ligature, in the mouth, and open the doublings of the wire, which he now paffes over the poly- pus. The wire is then to be pulled tight through the tubes, fo as to obftrutt the cir- culation in the tumour, which will in a day or two mortify and fall off. In this man- ner, ligatures may be applied to tumours in the back part of the nofe and throat. In order to apply the ligature, directed to the root of the tumour, in the anterior part of the nofe, a flit probe has been ufed, to pufli up the ligature to the root of the polypus, which is to be firfl furroundecT by the doubling of the ligature. The extraction of polypi by the forceps fhould ne- ver be attempted, when it can be done with the ligature; as the forceps tears awayI 170 Chronic Tumours. away the membranes, that cover the bones. Hence troublefome exfoliations take place, and the operation itfelf is attended with the mod excruciating pains. Removing of polypi by cauftic is liable to many objec- jeftions. They are in danger of injuring materially the contiguous found parts of the throat. Cauftic has been recommend- ed to deftroy the roots of polypi. It is, however, never to be ufed, except when the bafe of the polypi is viable to the eye. When at any time cauftic can be ufed with propriety, it fhould be conducted into the throat by a tube contrived for the purpofe. '' POLYPUS NASI* O. 217. How are Polypi of the No he dif iinguijhed and treated ? A. The patient feels a fulnefs in his nofe, and fometimes a partial lofs of fmell. A tumour is foon perceived in the noftrils. It is faid, that, in damp weather, their fize * Sarcoma Narium, Saiivzgcfws. is \"Chronic Tumours. 171 is increafed. They are of various degrees of hardnefs, the hardeft being generally the moll painful. Their furface is fometimes ulcerated, and a foetid matter comes at lafi to be difcharged from them. The method * of cure, in fuch a cafe, is exaftly the fame as recommended (O. 216.) for polypi in general. t> Var. b. polypus uteri* «• • t f I Syn. Polypus of the Uterus. Q. 218. How is a Polypus of the Uterus to be treated ? A. A prolapfus of the uterus being mif- taken for a polypus, may be attended with dangerous confequences. Polypus of the uterus may be, however, diftinguifhed by careful infpeftion and examination, for it is generally found to be attached to the os internum by one {talk, and it is. fometimes found to acquire a confiderable fize. Its growth is gradual, and when it is of an in** * Cerccfis Actii \ Sarcoma Cercoiis, SauucLgefius, veterate * // 1 *7<» X J ta Chronic Tumours* vetcrate nature it is apt to degenerate into a cancer. The method of cure is exactly the fame as recommended for polypi in general (Q. 216). -/ I Var. C. polypus meati AUDITOR!!. O. 2 ig. /ibta are Polypi of the Ear to be treated? ^ , y A. Polypi of the ear fometimes acquire fo great a fize as to impede the hearing. In fuch cafes they are to be removed by the ligature alone. No efcharotic fub- ftance can be ufed with propriety for their removal, as it is always in danger of hurt- ing the tympanum. SARCOMA* iW yjf' * f O. 220. What is a Sarcoma ? "V A. It is a flefhy excrefcence, growing on any part of the body, of a foft nature, and 5 Sarcoma, Sauvagejius, CuUenus3 Sagariis• } not■ 4.<33 . , ,1 Chronic Tumours. 173 * not attended with much pain. It differs from polypi, in its not forming within mucous cavities; in being, for the mod part, on the furface of the body, and being generally the confequence of inflammation. It differs from fcirrhus, in not being hard, and not affe£fing the glands. • * *** * » « Var. A. HORDEOLUM*. O. 221. How are Indolent Tumours of the Eye-lids to be treated ? A. When fuch tumours are the confe- * t quence of inflammation, their fuppuration is to be fir ft attempted, by the methods al- ready laid down (Q. 10.), and as foon as pus is formed, it is to be difeharged by an . opening. But when fuch tumours cannot ' be brought to fuppuration, recourfe muft *\ be had to cut them off, by ligature, or by - excifion with the knife. * « f 1 r * HercUelum, Sauvagefius, Cullenus, Sagarus, Linnaus*1^4 Chronic Tumours. ■ v % Var. J5. PTERYGIUM* ' ■ i 9 Syn. Fleshy .Excrescences of the Cornea. * Q. 222. i&w Jlefhy Excrefcences of the Cornea to be treated ? A. They are to be removed by efcharotic fubftances, fuch as alum, blue vitriol, and the like, when thefe fail, recourfe is gene- rally had to remove them by the knife. » Var. C. EPULIS* Syn. Fleshy Excrescences on the •Teeth and Gums. , V. Q. 223. What are the Caufes of Flfiy Excrefcences on the Gums and Teeth, ancl. kozo treated ? A. A carious tooth, or a carious portion of the alveotary procefs; fungous ex- * Pterygium, Sauvagefius, Vogdius^ et Linnaus, Pannus tJngula, Sagarus, + Epulis, Vogclius, Sagarus• crefcences/ fc f * * 0 Chronic Tumours. 175 \ crefcences which fometimes impede maf- tication. Thefe excrefcences are always red. Sometimes they are of a watery con- fidence, but, in general, they are foft, and adhere to the gums only by a fmall neck. They are to be removed by a ligature O. 216. Var. d. sarcoma tonsillaris. Syn. Enlargement of the Tonsils. O. 224. What are the Cauj'es of Enlarge- ment of the Tonfils? p* \ A. Cold, producing inflammation, may be reckoned the principal caufe, repeated returns of which adds confiderably to their bulk, until at lafl they acquire fuch a fize as to impede deglutition and refpiratioru They feldom or never degenerate into cancer, or return after they are once ex- tirpated, ‘ Q- 225‘ How is an Enlargement of the Tonfils to be treated? A: In cafes of enlargement from catarrh, I ' fomentations *■17 6 I Chronic Tumours. \ fomentations and fcarifying the throat may be of fervice. After thefe methods prove unfuccefsful, and they continue to increafe in fize, fo as to become at laft very trouble- fome, they are to be removed by ligature, in the fame way as recommended for polypi (Q- 216). Cauftic applications are here equally inadmiflible, as in polypi, and the excifion by the knife is liable to produce profufe hemorrhagy. The ligature is, there- fore, to be introduced through the nofe, by means of a double canula. If both tonlils are enlarged, the inflammation, pro- duced by the removal of the one, fhould be allowed to fubfide, before any attempt be made to remove the other. Var .E. FUNGUS* Syn. Proud Flesh. y |, - V. \ O. 226. What is a Fungus3 and how is it 'W * to be removed ? A. It is a flefhy excrefcence, of a foft * Fungus, Sagar us> fpongy*OH • 4. .QQ 1 / \ Chronic Tumours. 177 fpongy nature, riling out of ill-conditioned ulcers, or from old wounds, above the level of the Ikin, and preventing their healing. Fungi are for the moft part removed, by the application of efcharotics; principally > fuch as lunar cauftic, alum, blue vitriol, or * 1 - the like. In fome cafes they acquire fuch a fize as to require excifion by the knife. Gen. XIII. CALLOSA. CONDYLOMA * % x Q. 227. What is a Condyloma ? A. It is an excrefcence, produced by doublings of the (kin, generally fituated about the anus, of a firmer confidence than flefh, and fofter than bone. There are feveral varieties of this affection as Var. a. Ficus, Var. b. Thymus ; all of which are occafioned by preffure. Q. 228. How .are Condylomatous Tumours about the Anus to be removed ? A. In the fame manner as recommended • % * Condyloma, Sauvage/ius, Linnceus, Vogdius. n for178 Chronic Tumours. I ■i for polypi, by lunar cauftic, by the ligature, or by the knife, and by avoiding the occa-* fional caufe, C L A V u s *; Syn. Corn's. Q. 229. How are Corns to be treated? A. As they arife from the fame caufeS as thofe of condyloma (O. 227.), the mode of treatment mull be exaftly the fame ; by avoiding the occafional caufe; by wearing wide fhoes, and paring off the inorganic matter, after it has been for fome time pre- vioufly foaked in warm water, and covering them afterwards with fome gummy ad- hefive plaifter, to defend them from the cold air. The ligature, however, cannot be ufed with the fame propriety. VERRUCCA* Sy n. Warts. O. 230. Hozo are Warts to be treated? A. When they have narrow roots, liga- * Clavus, Limuzus, Vcgelius, Cullenus, Sagarufque. t Verrucca, Sauvageftus, Vogdius3 Linn a us ^ Cvllcnufque. turesft one d N 2 fOH .4.33 u Chronic Tumours. lures may be ufed; but when, on the con- trary* they have broad bafes, efcharotic fubftances may be ufed for their removal, fuch as lunar cauftic, or a ftrong folution of corrofive fublimate. In the removal of watts, it is, however, particularly to be obferved, that, unlefs the whole of a wart \ be completely removed, a confiderable de- gree of inflammation is the confequence. When matter begins to form on the fur- face of warts, a ftrong folution of faccha- rum faturni is recommended; but when there is reafon to fufpeft that they are of a cancerous nature, a folution of arfenic * **» applied to them, is, in fuch cafes attended with good effetis. Gen. XIV. OSSEA. EXOSTOSIS *. Q. 231. What is an Exojtojis ? A. It is a tumefaftion of a bone, occa- * Exoftofes, Vogelius, Sagarvfque. Sauvagefms, CulUnus. Hyperfoflofis, Ludwig.i8o Chronic Tumours. honed by too great a quantity of callus, 'occurring in bones previoufly fraclured or wounded, or owing to an erolion occa- fioned by ulcers. Q, 232. How is Exojhfts to be treated? # A. No medicine has been as yet dif- * covered capable of removing the affeftiou. Recourfe is therefore generally had to a ehirurgical operation, particularly when the affeftion becomes painful and incon- venient. When a portion of one fide of 1 / the bone is only affected, it may be re- moved by the trepan. But when the ex- oflofis is found to furround the whole of the bone, that portion of the bone forming the exoftolis, inuft be entirely removed, and the leg is to be placed in a proper pollute, and nature will loon make up the ' deficiency. \ NODUS.I fOH -Ll-Qq Chronic Tumours• 181 NODUS*. O. 233. What is a Nodus? O. It is a fwelling of a bone fimilar to exoftofes (O. 231.) occafioned by lues ve- nerea, which is fometimes more rapid in its growth, than exoftofes from frafture (0,23a.). It is fometimes fo much enlarg- ed, as to burft the integuments, when an acrid difcharge enfues. O. 234. How is a Nodus to be treated ? A. The patient is to be fubjectea to a proper courfe of mercury, and when the periofteum is inflamed by the tenfion, oc- cafioned by the rapid growth of the bone, the application of leeches becomes necef- A. It is a fwelling fimilar to exoftofis, * Sideratio, Hippocrates, Galen, Cclfus. Psedarthrocace, Freind* Exoftofes Scophulofa, Petite* fary. SPINA VENTQSA*. Q. 235. What is a SpinaVenlofa ? * Exoftofes Siphilitica, Petite. Nodus, Pillars. n 3I 182 Chronic Tumours, (Q. 231.) arifing from fcrophula. This af* feftion differs from other fwelfings of bone, by its affe&ing the extremities of the large bones at the joints, which become carious* and lay the foundation of white fwellings . (Q. 208.). O. 236. How is a Spina Ventofa to be treated ? A. By applying all the remedies recom- mended for fcrophula (O. 206* 207.). When white fwellings occur* they are to be treated as already recommended (O. 209.)- j SPINICULtE genu articuli. f \ Syn. Concretions within the Knee Joint. Q. 237. Ho zo are Procter natural Bony Concretions oj the Knee Joint removed ? A. When fuch fubftances are found to adhere firmly to the capfular ligament of the joint* amputation of the joint has been generallyChronic Tumours. 183 I generally recommended. When they are loofe, they niay be removed by making an incifion, with a fcalpel, on the body of the fubfiances, intended to be removed. As „ foon as this is effected, and the fpiniculae are removed, the fkin is to be applied clofe together, to prevent, as much as poffible, • the admihion of the external air into the ( joint. N4 CLASS'OH -4.(93 C >85 3 CLASS II. HYOCENOSES. forming a Chirurgical Operation, obviated ? A. When the Iiemorrhagy occurs in any of the extremities, it can be fuccefsfully pre- vented by the application of the tourniquet. degree, by a ferew, as to impede the circu- lation in the parts below where it is to be applied. This ftrap will, in every cafe of .V ^ ' Sanguifluxus, Sauvageftus, S agar us. Profufio, Linncus, CuHenus. Ord. I. HE MO RRHAGIA*. Gen. XV. TRAUMATICA. PARTITA* Hemorrhagy, arifng from a complete divifon of Vejfels, in per- which confifts of a ftrap tightened to fuch a hemorrhagy186 Hemorrhagies. i hemorrhagy from the extremities, prevent it, until the bleeding arteries are fecured, which may be laid hold of fingly by a hook, termed a tenaculum, or by a fmall forceps, and may be drawn a little outwards, to ad- mit of their being furrounded by a ligature, made of filk thread waxed. This ligature is now to be tightened, to fuch a degree, as entirely to obliterate the cavity of the ar- tery at its extremity. But, when the bleed- ing veffels cannot be laid hold of fingly, a portion of the furrrounding foft parts is to be included in the ligature; by fin-round- ing the artery, by a curved needle, and performing it with two femi-circles, the artery can be completely furrounded. When there is an oozing of blood, from a wound of a confiderable furface, and when it is found difficult to prevent it, either by the ufe of the needle, or by ligature, pref- fiire on the furface of the fore has fome ef- fect. Vifcid and mucilaginous applications are recommended to be laid on the furface of the fore, and aftringents in fome cafes have been ufed with good effe&s; particu- larly'OH ■ 4.(3Q I ‘ \ Hemorhagies, 187 # * larly when the hemorrhagy occurs in the fauces, where a ligature could not be appli- ed. Spirit of wine, taken into the mouth, in fuch cafes, has been alfo found to be of fervice. In fome cafes the application of the potential cautery becomes neceffary, to pbviate hemorrhagy. \ 1 Gen. XVI. SYMPTOMATICA. EPISTAXIS* / Syn. Bleeding at the Nose. O. 239. How is a cafe of Epifiaxis to be treated ? A. Bleeding at the nofe being generally a fymptomatic affeffion, arifing from ple- thora, fuch remedies, as tend to obviate plethora mod powerfully, are to be ufed. Topical applications are to be ufed for the time, particularly cold, fo as to produce a conftriftion in the orifices of the ruptured veffels lining the membranes of the nofe. * Epifiaxis, Vogdius et Cullcnus. WhenI 188 Hemorrhagies. I When this fails to flop the emorrhagy, re- courfe muft be had to compreirion, which is fometimes very difficulty when the arte- ries lie deep. The introduction of dofiels of lint into the noftrils, fometimes proves effectual; and the gut of an animal filled with cold water, by adapting itfelf to the convolutions of the offa fpongiofa, may have fome effeft. When all thefe fail 10 hop the hemorrhagy, a piece of catgut is to be introduced, through the nofe into the pha- rynx, and taken out at the mouth. A piece of fponge is to be then fixed to the end taken out of the mouth, of fuch a fize as to flop the pofterior part of the noftril. The piece of wire is now to be drawn back / again through the noiiril, until the fponge prefs againft the pofterior part of the nares. In this manner another piece of fponge ma) be applied to the other noiiril, when the hemorrhagy occurs from both. Two compreftes are then to be applied on the anterior part of the noftrils; and they are to be fecured by the ligatures fixed to the fponges. The blood in this manner, find- ('OH - 4-^a Hcmorrhagies. 189 ing no way to efcape, will foon coagulate and prevent further hemorrhagy by its pref- fure. Whatever tends to increafe the ac- tion of the vafcular fyftem is to be in the mean time avoided. t 1 » HAEMOPTYSIS *. Spitting of Blood. O. 240. How is Hcsmoptyfis to be treated? % *■ A. It being for the mod part a fympto- matic affection, and fometimes arifmg from the fame caufes as thofe of Epiftaxis, the method of cure depends upon a removal of the primary affection. When hemorrhagy occurs, from the attion of the vafcular fyftem being very much increafed, a ftridt antiphlogiftic regimen is to be ufed, and a liberal ufe of acids. * Hcemoptylis, Savvagejius, Linn a us, Vogdius, Sagarus t Cuilenus, 1 I HEM A-i3i> HemorrhagieSi y I tlyEMATEMASIS *. Syn. VoMiTiNG of Blood. O. 241 » How is Hcematcmafis dijlinguijh- cdfrom ILxmoptyfis ? A. In fome cafes it is difficult to deter- mine, whether the cough, attending He- moptyfis, may not frequently produce Hac- matemafis : or whether the vomitino- at- tending Hannateinafis may not bring on Hacmoptyfis. Sometimes blood difcharged from an artery, pretty far back in the nofe, may be miliaken for an Haemoptyhs. The fis is feldom above two ounces, and is gene- rally of a grumous colour, from its lying for fome time in the ftomach* Whereas, in Haemoptyhs, confiderable quantities are often difcharged, to the amount of a pound at a time, and is of a florid frothy colour* Ilxinatemans. SagaruSj Limuzus, VcgdiuSy Sauvagefius, . tHemorrhagics. i g 1 Q. 24 2i How is a Hcematernajis to be treated ? A. As it may depend upon the fame caufes, as thole of Hasmoptyfis, the me- thod of cure mull be the fame. A liberal ufe of acids, and an antiphlogifiic regi- men, is all that can be preferibed. HEMATURIA*. * ~ O. 243. How is Hcematuria to be treated? A. Bloody urine is generally fymptoma- tic, and confidered merely as a haemorrha- 7 4 r gy, is feldom dangerous. It is to be only cured by a removal of the primary affec- tion. All that can be done for the time is to endeavour to alleviate the fymptoms by an antiphlogiflic regimen. * Hcematuria, Sauvagefius, Vogelius, Linn x us» Cyftirr- hagia Stymatofis, Vogelius, Okd.[ *92 3 Ord. II. ULCUS* Syn. Sore Ulcer. Gen. XVII. PURI FLU XUS. V . V SIMPLEX. • ' ' ' / Syn. Simple Ulcer* Q. 244. w <2 Simple Ulcer ? A. It is a difcharge of mild pus, from the furface of a wound, not of long Hand- ing ; or from an abfcefs, fituated on the fur- face of the body, and having new granula- tions at its bottom. } , 4 * , ' / ’ -! O. 245. Can the cure of every Simple Ulcer be, at, all times, with propriety, at- tempted? , , • A. When the difcharge from ulcers has * Ulcus, Saitvagefiiis, Cullcnus, Linnaius, Plat nary Dc Villars. '^OH • 4 .<33 r-W-- Ulcers. lg 3 been in any considerable quantity, and has fubfided for fome time, they are never to be healed up all at once, as this difeharge, be- ing fuddeniy flopped, might materially hurt the conftitution. 'But, when ulcers are - ‘ ' ✓ fituated upon particular parts, and render thefe inconvenient for the purpofes of life, they are to be immediately dried up. At the fame time an ilfue is to be inferted. in fome V I * : more convenient part. The difeharge oc- « cafioned by it, will be a fubftitute for the ulcer. The ilfue may be allowed, in fome cafes, gradually to diminifh, until at laft it may be dried altogether, without any in- j convenience to the fyftem. O. 246. In the formation of IJfues, what are .theprincipal things to be attended to? A. They fhould never be formed over a tendon, bone, belly of a mufcle, nor con- tiguous to any confiderable blood-veffeh The befl places, therefore, for forming iffues, are in the interftices of the mufcles ; as about the nuche of the neck, the middle of QI 194 Ulcers. '■ , of the humerus, or thigh, or between two of fhe ribs. Q. 247. Hozo are IJJues formed ? A. Either by making an incifion with a lancet, or cauftic, large enough to admit of a pea being introduced into it; or when a greater difcharge of matter is wifhed for, to pafs a feton or chord by a needle, through the part ; which ffiould be firfl marked with ink, at the place the needle is wifhed to come out at. Q. 248. What Prognojis can be given of Ulcer in general ? A. The Prognolis muff depend upon the nature of the caufe, whether it has been more or lefs violent; or, if any predifpo* fit ion has given rife to them. Their fitua- tion is alfo of great confequence, to diredt the prognofis. When ulcers occur on ten- dons or ligaments, they are more difficult to heal. The danger attending ulcers may arife from the chance of their penetrating into any of the cavities of the body, not accuftomedJ \ Ulcers. 195 accuflomed to the admiffion ol the external air; and alfo, from their being contiguous to fbme great blood-veffels, the matter dif- charged by them may become fo acrid, as to corrode their coats, and fo form aneu- rifms (Q. ill.). ' * / O. 249. How is a Simple Ulcer to be treated ? A. Whatever prevents the formation of new granulations in the bottom of the fore, is to be avoided, fuch as chemical or mecha- nical irritations, occafioned by improper drelfings. Pain is alfo always prejudicial to the healing of ulcers. It Ihould be therefore par- ticularly guarded againft. Drelfings too often applied prove alfo an irritation to the fore. The drelfings fhould be of the mildeft na- ture, and not applied oftener than once in twenty-four hours, in this climate. In or- der to preferve the ulcer, in a proper puru- lent Rate, a certain degree of heat is always neceffary, by means of warm poultices to the extremities, on account of their be- ing at a greater diftance from the heart. o 2 Poultices, /196 Ulcers. Poultices, however, ought not to be conti- nued too long, as they render the part flabby, and fo prevent the healing. CompreHiorr on the contiguous found parts is alfo found to be of confiderable fervice in the cure of ulcers. Granulations being formed at lafl in the bottom of the wound, and the defi- ciency fupplied completely, a cicatrix will foon take place. But when the granula- tions begin to extend beyond the furface of the fore, they are to be obviated by cauftic, dry charpee, and a tight bandage; apply- ing at the fame time fome aflringent fo- lution. Q. 250. When the Difcharge from a fimple Ulcer becomes Vitiated, hozo is it to be treated ? ♦ _ . A A. By endeavouring as much as polfi- ble to convert it into the form of a fimple ulcer, by a diligent application of heat to the part, and a liberal ufe of opium to re- move the pain. When the body is ex- haufted, a nourifhing diet, together with bark and wine, is to be recommended. Rut when, on the contrary, the body is in aof % (OH -4.(33 Ulcers. igj s' , plethoric date, the antiphlogiftic regimen is advifeable. When once a plentiful lup- puration is formed, the lore is to be treated .as already recommended (Q. 249). ** V ^GILOPS * Syn. Ulcers of the Eye and its Coats. Q. 251. From whence arifes the danger of Ulcers of the Eye? A. The danger chiefly arifes from their 'fituation. In fome parts of the eye, the cicatrix left by them may deflroy vifion altogether. A partial debility is alfo left when the cicatrices of fuchulcers are formed, fo as to allow the humours of the eye at laft to efcape. Funguous excrefcences often arife. When fuch ulcers are formed, they are to be removed, as already recom- mended. # O.252. What are the Caufes of Ulcers of the Eyes, and how to be treated ? * I .4 A. They are generally the confequence * iE,gilops, Vogelius* ° 3 ♦ m * • ' *I ig S Ulcers. of inflammation running into fuppurat ion. They may arife from wounds, burns, and a variety of other caufes. When fuch ulcers arife from inflamma- tion, and it has not as yet fully fubfided, the antiphlogiftic regimen is to be ufed, as recommended for ophthalmia (Q. 31]. When fuch ulcers are hollow, and have foul edges, a little corrofive fublimate, white vitriol, or weak folution of faccharum faturni will be found of fome fervice. t f , ULCUSCUL^: ORIS. Q. 253. How are Ulcers of the Mouth to be treated ? A. When ulceration of the mouth arifes from a general affeflion, of the fyftem, as from lues venerea *, or from fevers t, the affection occafioning fuch is firft to be re- moved, before a cure can be expefted. When ulceration of the mouth arifes from * Ulcufcula Venerea Oris, AJiruc. Aphtha Syphilitica, Sauvagefius. Aphtha fcbrilisj Saiivagtfius, Aphtha adult is, Lennsrt, a por*\ Ulcers. 199 a portion of a ragged tooth, the ragged portion is to be filed off, and fome aftrin- gent folution taken, from time to time, into the mouth. t OTORRHEA* Syn. Running from the Ear. O. 254. How is Ulceration of the Ear to be treated ? t A. Any difeharge from an ulcer in the ear fhould be dried up, as foon as poffible, becaufe a continuation of it might ma- terially injure the tympanum, and parti- cularly the bones of the ear. To wafh away the matter of ulcers fronj the cavity of the ear, warm water has been recom- mended. To wafh out matter formed within the cavity of the ear, an aftringent folution of oak bark, or faccharum faturng is often attended with the heft effects. , \* • * * Otorrhea, Linnteus, Sagarus. 04 SINUS. /zoo Ulcers„ SINUS* h Syn. Sinous Ulcer, ' * Q. 255* What is a Sinous Ulcer ? A. It is an ulcer with a narrow orifice, running in the interfaces of the mufcles, or in the cellular fubfiance, occafioned by the matter of abfceffes, or ulcers, not finding proper vent, infinuating itfelf into the cel- lular fubilance. • O. 256. What Prognofs can be given of Sinusm general? A. It muff depend upon the habit of body of the patient. When finufes are oc- cafioned by fome fault of the conftitution, when they are of long handing, and when they penetrate into any of the joints, the prognofis muft be very doubtful. . . Q. 257. How is a Sinous Ulcer to be cured ? A. The principal thing in view in the cure of a finus, is to produce a total anni- hilation.Ulcers. 201 hilation of the cavity, from whence the matter is difcharged. This is effected by exciting a certain degree of inflammation, fo as to occafion a concretion of the fides of the finus. For this purpofe acrid fub- ftances have been recommended, to be in- jefted into fmufes. But a feton introduced into the opening of the finus, and carried through it, to its other extremity, as re- commended for abfcefs (Q. 49.) anfwers better. As foon as a fufficient degree of inflammation is produced by it, it is to be removed. Making a free incifion with a fcalpel the whole length of the finus, an- fwers equally well, when the fituation of it is fuch as to admit of this. FISTULA * Syn. A Callous narrow Sore. Q. 258. What is a Fijtula ? A. It is a finus 255.) with callous edges, deeply feated, and difcharging pus * Fiftula, SauvageJtuSf Linnczus, Vogdius, Culknus.1 202 Ukers. •• _ &* by a final 1 opening,Tor the molt part oc- curring in the anus, neighbourhood of the reftum, perineum, and urethra. Var. A. FISTUL/E in a no. Q. 259. What arc the Caufes of Fiflulcc in A no ? / A. They may be occasioned by abfeeffes, or collections of matter about the anus, not finding an outlet, fpreading among the in- terfaces of the mufcles, and between them and the integuments. Contufions of the buttocks may produce inflammation of them, and from thefe colleflions of matter a caries of the os facrum or coccygis, in- flammation produced by piles, or condylo- matous tumours about the anus, may be alfo caufes of fiftulaa in ano. O. 260. How do Fijlulcc in Ano terminate if improperly treated ? A. At lafl not only the parts about the perineum and reftum become difeafed, but fometimes the matter corrodes the bladder andUlcers. 203 \ f * and makes a hole in it. In this manner a communication has been often found be- tween the redum and bladder. The os facrum and coccygis become at laft carious and death puts an end to the bufferings of the patient. m Q. 261. How are Fzjlulce in Ano to be treated ? A. Whenever inflammatory tumours are obferved about the anus, as boon as their • 1 refolution is found impoffible, every method already recommended for promoting pus (Q- 10.), is to be attempted; and when matter is once fully formed, it is immedi- ately to be evacuated. But when, from fome improper treatment, this has been neglected, and painful callofities have taken place about the edges of the fac, formed by the tumour being allowed to burft of itfelf, the affe6tion is to be treated ex- a£tly in the fame manner as recommended for finus (O. 257). There is no occafion to remove the callous edges, as has been generally recommended. Making an incifion 1Ulcers. ■204 »/ mcifion only by a probe-pointed biflay into llie fiftula, anfwers much better. O. 262. How is the Operation for Fijhilm in Ano executed? \ A. The patient being placed in a proper pofture, the finger of the furgeon is to be rubbed over with oil, and introduced into the reclum: the point of a probe-pointed biftory is to be inlerted into the fiftula, and pufhed againft the finger in the retlum, if a communication takes place between the finger and the reftum. When this, how- ever, is not the cafe, and the fiftula runs only in the direftion of the reftum, a fharp pointed biftory is to be ufed. A piece of cprk, fimilar to the finger, is to be intro- duced into the reftum, to receive the point of the biftory, after it has penetrated into the reftum. It is now to be taken out at the anus, by withdrawing the cork. The furgeon may finifh the operation by one ftroke of the knife. A degree of inflam- mation being in this way produced, the callous edges are deftroyed, by the forma- tion of pus on their lurface ; and by gentle preffure,Ulcers, 205 t \ preffure, a cure is then generally obtained. When tiiluke are at a dillance from the redurn, they are to be opened by a direc- tory and a fcalpeh r Var. A. FISTULA IN PERINEO. ) O. 263. What are the caufes of Fijlulce in Perineo ? A. Fiflula in the perineo may arife from wounds of the biadder, and of the urethra, from external violence ; from a laceration of parts, when performing the operation of lithotomy ; from incifions into the urethra, for the extraftion of calculi happening to hop there; by finufes producing matter capable of corroding the membranous part of the urethra; from fuppuration taking place in the perineum, being the confe- quence of inflammation, from the urine pafling through an opening of the urethra into the perineum, fcrotum, or other neighbouring part, and rendering the edges, of the fore callous, Fiftulse in 3 . perineo206 Ulcers. I rineo are for the mod part OccafiOned by venereal complaints. O. 264. How arc Fijlu Ice in Perineo to be treated ? ( / A. When they are the confequence of other affe&ions of the fyftem, before a cure is to be attempted, a removal of the primary affeftion is neceffary. When the complaint is only of a local nature, a fimple incifion into the finus is all that is neceffary, to difcover the wound in the urethra, into which a catheter is to be pre- vioufly introduced. A fmall portion of the fiftulous edges of the fore may be removed, and the edges are to be placed as nearly in contact as poffible. When a communica- tion takes place between the body of the bladder and the perineum, the finus is to be laid open to its bottom, and the callous edges are to be removed as far as it can be done with fafety, and the wound is to be allowed to heal from its bottom, as already recommended. 1 Var.Ulcers. 207 } VrAR. C. Fistula Lachrymalis. o. 265. What is a Fijlula Lachrymalis? A. A dilatation of the lachrymal fac from obftruftion of its 'du&, fometimes takes place, fo as to burft the fac at lad ; when an opening is formed, in the mod prominent part of the tumour, through which the tears and matter it contained are \ difcharged : but upon this taking place, it clofes again, until another collection forms, when it burfts again ; and fo on repeatedly, until at laft an opening remains with callous edges ; and when the complaint has fubfif ~ ed for fome time, the bones of the nofe come to be affefied, and the difchar^e be- comes foetid. Q. 266. What are the Caufes of Fijlula Lachrymalis ? A. The affection may arife from inflam- mation of the membrane of the duft, from catarrh, meafles, cold, venereal affe&ions, fcrophula, wounds, and tumours, produc- ing an obftruftion to the paffage of the tears into the nofe. Q. 267.208 , Ulcers. Q. 267 What Prognojis can be given of Fijlula Lachrymalis ? \ * , A. When the difeafe is the effect of fcrophula* or of venereal affeftions, a cure can never be expected, until the primary af- fection is removed. But, when the affec- tion arifes from inflammation, in confe- * • quence of cold, or of the meafles, the prog- nofis may be more favourable. When the obftruftion is owing to the preffure of tu- mours, in the neighbourhood of the duCi, a cure is eafily effected, provided there be a polfibility of removing fuch tumours with propriety. O. 268. Hoxjtf is a Fijlula Lachrymalis to be. treated? 1 A. The mode of treatment muff vary J according to the different ftages of the dif- eafe. When inflammation of the mem- brane of the duff is the caufe of the obftruc- tion, the antiphlogiffic regimen becomes exceedingly neceffary, to prevent adhefion of the lides of the duff. When the ob- flruffion is feated in the p unci a lachryma- lia, or in the duff bv the vifcidity ol the 7 J 4 matter.fOH ■ 4.<33 JZXZ Ulcers. 209 matter, by remofa, a fine probe may be pafied through them, to remove the ob- ftru&ion; or a curved probe, introduced into the nofe, may remove any obftruflion of this kind from the nafal duff. Prelfure upon the duft by a column of mercury, railed in a tube, may have fome efte£i in removing the obltru&ion. When fiftulae lachrymales arife from lues venerea, or fcrophula, no cure can be expe&ed, until the primary affeftion be removed. Prelfure upon the fac has been recommended, to fuch as will not fubmit to a removal of the complaint by an operation. In this way the tears run over the cheek during life, when an accretion of the fides of the fac has taken place. The only remedy left, is, to make an artificial paffage for the tears, by a chirurgical operation. O. 26g. How is the Operation for Fijlula Lachrymalis executed ? A. After making an opening in the moft depending part of the tumour, by a lancet, and difcharging the fac of its contents, if it is found impoilible, the natural paffage by p a probeUlcers. 210 a probe paffed forward In the natural direc- tion, and with moderate force, recourfe is to be had to drill cautioufly an artificial open- ing through the os unguis, by a trocar, or any other fharp-pointed inftrument. When the inftrument has penetrated a fufficient depth (which is eafily known, by the want of refiftance), and the blood is difcharged by the nofe, a proper attention to the direction of the inftrument, in making the perfora- tion, is always neceffary. It is to be made in an oblique dire&ion, downwards from the inferior part of the fac. As foon as the perforator is removed, a filver tube is to be introduced into the opening, where it is allowed to remain, until the edges of the wound become callous. As foon as "this is effefted, the tube is withdrawn, and the external wound heals readily.H fOH -14.(23 * - • XJlcCTS• 21 i Gen. XVIII. VISCID A. SCROPHULOSA* O. 270. Scrophulous Ulcers to be treated ? A. To effeft a cure, a removal of the ge- neral affections of the fyftem becomes requi- fite. Solution of faccharum faturni may be applied to the part, and fea-bathing may be ufed with fome effeft. No attempt ought to be made to convert the difcharge $ of fcrophulous ulcers into proper pus, as the application of warm poultices feems to do harm, and as there is no poffibility of changing the curdly matter difcharged by them into pus. it y *.t " * SYPHILITICA*. Q. 271 How are Venereal Ulcers of long jlanding diflinguified ? \ A. For the mod part they can be dif- tinguiihed from their fituation ; from their * Elcofis Scrophulofa, Sauvage/ius. i Elcofis Syphylitica, Sauvagcfnis» P 2 - attack-212 Ulcers. attacking the throat, palate, bones of the nofe, and middle of the long bones of the extremities; and by their yielding a greenifh tough fort of matter, different from mild pus. Q. 272. Hozo is the Venereal Ulcer to he treated ? A. When they are of a local nature, only in the form of what has been named chancre, burning them out with lunar cauftic removes them effe&ually. But when venereal ulcers aiife in confequence of the general affeftion of the fyftem, a regular courfe of mercury is to be ufed, which feb dom fails to effetl a cure. o Gen. XIX. ICHOR A. CANCER* Q- 273. How is a Cancer to be treated ? A. Medicine has little effeft in produc- * Carcinoma. Linnaeus, Sagarus3 VogdiustUlcers. ing a cure. All that can be done, therefore, is, to palliate the difeafe, by ufing a mild and nourifhing diet, with fmall dofes of opium, wine, and bark, Alfo fine lint, and a fponge, may be applied to the fore, together with cataplafms of cicuta, and opium. Where the cancer is only local, it fhould be removed, if it can be done with propriety. CARIES*, i Q. 274. What is a Caries ? A. It is a mortification of the bone, at- tended with a difcharge of an ichorous na- ture, and which is always very foetid. Some- times it arifes from a denudation of the bone, by a feparation of the periofteum. When this occurs, the bone, in the courfe ■ of three or four days after the accident, ac- quires a yellowifh colour, and afterwards a brown; in a fhort time the furface of the foft parts puts on a flabby and glazed Vs + Caries. Sauvagefius, Sagarus, Linn&us, Culltnus, Vo- gtlius. p 3 appearanceUlcers. 1214 appearance ; granulations, during the whole courfe of the difeafe, advance very rapidly ; even before the exfoliation of the difeafed portion of the bone takes place. Q. 275. What are the Caufes of Caries ? / A. External injuries of any kind, or in- ternal faults of the conflitution, affefting the periofteum : The matter of ulcers im- properly treated, corroding the periofteum : Inflammation of the periofteum itfelf, from whatever caufe, and the improper applica- tion of acrid fubftances to the bone. Q. 276. What Prognofs fiould be given of Caries ? A. The Prognofis muft depend upon the fituation of the part affedfed. The danger attending it, arifes from its being fituated near parts effentially neceffary to life, and alfo from its affecting the joint. The bone becomes more difficult, where it is fituated on the hardeft parts of the bones, as it re- quires greater time to effieff an exfoliation. The cure is alfo more difficult, when the caries is extenfive ; when it is the effedt of con- 1'OH- 4 .<33 Ulcers. 215 contufion, or of a fault of tnc general habit. O. 277. How is Caries to be treated? A. Whenever either by the natural ex- ertion, or by art, a reparation, of the dif- eafed portion of the bone from the found* takes place, a cure is to be immediately attempted, in the fame manner as recom- mended already (O. 249.) for fimple ulcer; more particularly if the affection be of a local nature : Only the contiguous foft parts are to be kept from healing, until this takes place. Several applications have been re- commended, to promote a reparation of the difealed portion of the bones, fo as to haften the cure, when the natural effect is found flow and infufficient. But the beft method, as yet difcovered, is, to make a number of fmall holes in the bone, by a perforator, fo as to promote a certain de- gree of inflammation, which will effeft a reparation of the difeafed portion. De- coftions of bark are to be, at the fame time, applied to the fore. £ 4 Var.2l6 Ulcers. Var §. ODONTALGIA CARIOSA* Syn. Tooth -Ach from Carious Teeth. O. 278. How is Tooth-ach, arifng from Carious Teeth, to be treated ? A. When the caries has deflroyed the fubftance 01 the tooth, and by expofure of the nerve to the cold air, violent degrees of Tooth-ach are produced, and if the caries be not owing to a comlitutional caufe, the tooth is to be removed ; efpecially when the caries is only owing to fome external injuries, and when one of the teeth only is affedicd. But when there is. more than one tooth affecied, and the caries is. owing to fome other difeafe of the fyflem, removal of them is not advifeable. The admiffion of the air, by its having accefs to the nerves of the teeth, is to be obviated, by filling* the cavity of the tooth with fome metallic body. Some acrid fubftances may * Odontalgia Canola, Fan chart. Q J be(OH • M- • <33 — Ulcer’s. 217 be nrfi thrown into the tooth, to deflroy the irritability of the nerve altogether ; fuch as opium, fpirit of wine, camphor, and ef~ fential aromatic oils. But although this may, for fome time, deflroy the power of the nerve, yet, in a fnort time, it acquires its former fenfibility. Some have recoin- f mended, therefore, to defiroy the nerve al- together, by lunar cauftic, or the aCtual cautery, by introducing a red hot wire into the cavity of the tooth. But there is a con- fiderable decree of danger attending the former of thefe methods, and patients will not readily liibmit to the latter. The bell method of deftroying the nerve, is by ex- tracting the tooth; and, as foon as the locket is cleared of the blood, if the tooth be not much fpoiled, it is immediately to be replaced, and it becomes as ufeful as be- fore. This method can be, with propriety, always attempted, when the carnni or in- cifores are only affefted, Tooth-ach may a rife from other caufes, befides. carious teeth: as from inflammation. Tooth-ach is i2l8 Ulcers. is alio fymptomatic of other affe&ions, as of pregnancy*, and of hyfteria f. Q. 2 79. How is the Operation for extrac- tion of the Teeth executed? A. The teeth may be extracted in va- rious direCiions ; but it is evident from the ftruCiure of their fangs, and of the alveoli, that the more perpendicularly they are pul- led, the lefs contufion and injury will be done to the jaw-bones, and the alveoli will be lefs hurt; a circumftance of the greatefl importance in the extraction of teeth. But as no proper inftrument has been as yet in- vented, capable of effecting this properly, a lateral direction is generally recommended, by an inftrument in the form of a key, with a claw and fulcrum ; which fhould be al- ways covered with a piece of linen cloth. After dividing the foft parts of the gum from the tooth, the claw is to be fixed as far down, betwixt the tooth and gum, as * Odontalgia Gravidarum, Mauriceau. t Odontalgia Hyfterica, Sauvagefius. poffible.Ulcers. *119 poffible. Then the fulcrum is to be ap- plied on the oppofite fide. The furgeon may now, with one turn of the handle of the infirument, pull the tooth out at once. But the turn fhould not be eficeied by a fudden jerk, but in the mod cautious and (low manner. When it happens to be one of the great molares, whofe roots diverge very much, and when they are firmly fixed* after only looking it with the firft pull, the claw of the inftrument is to be applied to the other fide of the tooth, and the turn given in a contrary direction to the firft. After it is diffidently looled in this man- ner, it is to be laid hold of by a common teeth forceps, and extracted in the eafieft manner. The firft turn of the inftrument may be either outwards or inwards, indift criminately, as the roots of the molares di- verge equally well on both fides except in the two laft molares of the lower jaw, where the turn of the inftrument ftiouid be always inwards, to prevent the laceration, which would be apt to enfue from the prefftire of the fulcrum of the inftrument againft the ftiarp ridge formed by the bafes of the coronoid220 Ulcers. coronoid procefsof the lower jaw. Uponex- tra&ionc fi he tooth, any detached fplinter oc- curring is to be immediately removed. Shou 1 d any confiderable hemorrhagy take place, the patient may take fome cold water, vinegar, orfpirit of wine, into his mouth ; and dof- fils of lint may be introduced into the focket. After all thefe failf recourfe mud be had to the actual cautery. Stumps of the teeth may be removed by a fmall forceps or punch. When the tooth extracted is fo much deflroyed, that it cannot be replaced again (O. 278.), another tooth, taken from a found perfon, will be found to anfwer. Q. 280. In the transplanting of Teeth, •what are the principal things to be attend- ed to? A. To obviate deformity, as much as pofiible, the lockets mull be whole, and free of difeale. The operation of tranf- planting teeth can never be, therefore, with propriety attempted, in old age, or in child- hood. The tranfplanted tooth ought to fit the focket exactly. For this purpofe it 1 may221 Ulcers. Q. 282, may be filed down, if it happens to be too large, avoiding, however, the corona of the tooth as much as polhble. The tranfplanted tooth ought alfo to be taken from a perfon of a found conftitution. Q. 281. How is the Scorbutic Ulcer dif- iinguijhed? A. It gives out a thin foetid fanies. The edges of the fore are of a livid colour. There arifes from the bottom of the fore a brown fungus (O. 226.), which is rapid in its growth, and, although removed by efcharotics, grows ftill to the fame fize, be- fore next dreffing. Scorbutic ulcers, for the mod part, occur in the cicatrices of old fores, and generally affe£t the gums. * Ileos Hematites, Splen Magnus, Hippocrates. Scor- butus Galloruni) Sea Scurvy, Lind% Gen. XX. SA NIES. SCORBUTUS*222 Ulcers. Q. 282. How is ike Scorbutic Ulcer to be cured ? A. By removing the general a flection of the fyficm ; by antifeptics, fuch as wine, bark, both topically applied and taken into the fyflem ; vegetable diet, and a liberal ufe of acids and fugar, / • * ./ * OZCENA*. Q- 283. Whc it is an Ozce.na? A. It is a difcharge from the nofe, gene- rally of a thin acrid nature, fimilar to fa- cies, occafioned by external violence, ex- pofure to cold, or by whatever produces a degree of inflammation, in the membrane o • lining the noftrils. Sometimes it arifes from a venereal infeftion, when the difcharge be- comes fo acrid as to corrode the bones of the nofe, and occafion caries of them. Q. 284. How is Ozama to be treated ? A. When the difcharge is merely local. 3 * Ozaena, Vogd'us* notUlcers. 223 and not depending upon any conftitutional affe&ion, doffils of lint, dipped in aftringent folutions, are chiefly to be ufed; fuch as decoftions of bark. But when the affeftion is owing to a venereal infe&ion, mercury is chiefly to be depended upon; and fhould be applied in the form of liniment, to which fome corrofive fubflances fhould be added, to prevent the formation of excref- .cenfes (Q. 217.). When a caries of the bones of the nofe occurs, the cure is ren- dered very difficult. Ord.[ 224 .] Ord. secernenda. Gen. XXI. SEUFLUXUS. CORYZA* O. 285. What is a Coryza ? A. It is a difcharge, moftly of a ferous fluid, from the noftrils, different from Ozce- na, and generally accompanying catarrh f. Q. 286. How is Coryza to be treated? A. By removing the occafional caufe as much as poflible, if prefent, a cure is gene** rally effefted. EPIPHORA J. Q. 286. What is an Epiphora? A. It is an extraordinary difeharge of * Coryza, Cullen us, Vogelius, Linnccusi Squvagefius, Saga- rus, Hippocrates. + Coryza Catarrhales, Sauvagejius, J Epiphora. Sauvagejius, Sagarus) Cullenus, Vagelius, Lin- ncnis, DelachrymaliSj Plinius, Rlieuma Opthalmia, ct Epiphora, Galen, tearsQ Q. 289, on ■ 4 'QQ Increased Secretions. 225 tears from the eyes, occafioned by fome fault of the lachrymal dufts or glands, and is generally a fymptom of ophthalmia. Q. 287. How is Epiphora to be treated ? A. By removing opthalmia, if prefent, (O. 31.), and by obtaining a free paflage for the tears into the nofe (Q. 369.), by re- moving inflammation, or any other caufe, occafioning obftruftion to the paflage of the tears into the nofe. » ' * • ENEURESIS* • • 1 O. .288. What is an Eneurefis? A. It is an involuntary difcharge of urine, arifing from a want of power in the fphincter of the bladder+, or from the ftimu- lus given by the irritation from calculi, rub- bing againft the neck of the bladder ; or from a laceration of parts, by the operation of lithotomy, and from the preflure of the uterus in a ftate of pregnancy J. * Eneurefis, Sauvagejius, CuLlenus, Vogelins, Li?inczus} Sa- garus. Perirrhcea, Hippocrates. Parefis Aretoeus Stranguria Galen. Incontinentia Urinal, Sinnertius, f Eneurefis Paralyticorum, Juncker. + Eneurefis Gravidarum, Mauriceau.226 Increafed Secretions. O. 289. How is Eneurefis to be treated? A. When Eneurefis arifes from a want of tone in the fphintier of the bladder, the cure is very difficult. It is, however, to be at- tempted, by endeavouring to reftore it as much as poffible, by the ufe of bark, cold bathing, wine, and the application of blifters to the perineum. When Eneurefis arifes from the irritation of calculi, opiates and mucilaginous liquors are to be ufed. When thefe fail to give relief, a removal of the calculi by an operation becomes neceflary. When Eneurefis arifes from a laceration of parts, in performing the operation of litho- tomy, fome relief may be obtained by ufing gentle preffure, by an inftrument termed i jugum penis in the male, and by pejfaries in the female, to prefs againft the urethra. Thefe peftaries ought to be made, as already * recommended (Q. 155.), for prolapfus uteri. In cafes where the jugum penis cannot be ufed with propriety, an inftru- ment may be worn between the legs, to re- ceive the urine, as it drops from the penis. Gen. XXII. - dc lOH • I4 .<3Q Increafed Secretions. 227 Gen. XXII. MUCOSA. Gonorrhea Virulenta. Q. 290. PFAfli z'i a Gonorrhea Virulenta ? •I A. By the term Gonorrhea Virulenta, is generally underftood, a difcharge from the urethra of the male, and vagina of the female, occalioned by the venereal virus a ft in g againft the glands of the affefted furface. < O. 291. How is Gonorrhea Virulenta to be treated ? A. By removing the poifon as much as poliible, by mild wafhes, or allowing it to difappear fpontaneoufly, and palliating the to allay the pain and mucilage, to fupply the abraded furface ra. % 'knus, Sauvagefius, Sagarut} PYU-Increased, Secretions. 228 PYURIA* l t \ O. 292. What is a Pyuria ? A. It is a difcharge of mucous matter, occafioned by the irritation of calculi either in the ureter, bladder, or urethra, and fometimes affuming the form of pus. 1 * . O. 293. How is Pyuria to be treated? A. By removing the occafional caufe, if pollible, by ufing mild mucilaginous and diluent liquors, and an antiphlogiftic regi- men, joined, however, with opiates. * Pyuria, Sauvagefius. ¥ or ass) -4.(33 . C 229 ] « - CLASS III. V V I T I A. % Ord. I. DIA LYTIC A*. Gen. XXIII. CRUENTA. VULNUSf. Syn. Wound. O* 294. What is a Wound? A. It is a folution of continuity in any of the foft parts of the body, attended with hemorrhagy, and a correfponding divifion of the external integuments. Var. A. INCISUM + Syn. Simple Wound. Q. 295. What are the Phenomena that occur in a Jimpte incifed Wound ? A. Where a wound is made acrofs the * Vitia, Dialytica, Linnceus. i \ ulnus, Sauvagefius, Linnceus3 Vogelius, Platnerus, Gaubius, | Vulnus Simplex, Sauvagefius. Q 3 dire&ion{ 230 Lofs of Continuity. dire&ion of the fibres of a mufcle, on with- drawing the inftrument a vacancy is imme- diately perceived, and a lofs of fubftance. A hemorrhagy inftantly enfues, which, however, gradually fubfides, upon the parts being expofed for feme time to the external air. The arteries contraft, and at 3aft a ferous difcharge only takes place, which in a (hort time alfo flops. In the courfe of a few hours, a parched (late of the fkin occurs, and a degree of pain, which is feldom felt iruthe early flages oi the affeftion. A rednefs of the part, and fwel- ling fucceed, and a degree of pyrexia, When thefe fymptoms continue violent, for fome time, mortification is apt to enfue. But when they are moderate, and proceed in a gradual manner, an oozing of ferum takes place, on the parched furface of the wound. This ferum being gradually con- verted into pus, the other fymptoms begin to abate. New granulations being now formed on the furface of the wound, fill up the vacancy, and fo accomplifh a cure. * <> ■ j. • •v O. 206. - J- r\ I • 4 .<30 t Lofs of Con tinuity. 231 Q. 296. What Prognojis can be given of Jimple incijed Wounds ? A. Wounds heal molt readily in healthy and found conftitutions, when the tones of the mufcular fibre is molt complete. Wounds are generally difficult of healing in vene- real and fcrophulous conftitutions. Wounds heal more readily in the belly, than on the tendinous parts of mufcles ; or when they are inflicted on tendons palling over joints. Wounds of the bones are difficult of heal- ing, as an exfoliation of the bone is often the confequence. Wounds in glandular parts are more dangerous, than what their firft fymptoms might feem to indicate, as fcirrhus of them often enfue, and a cica- trix is with difficulty effefted, the fores be- coming fungous (Q. 226.). When a nerve is completely divided, the parts below it are deprived of motion, and fenfibility to a certain degree left.' When it is partially divided, high degrees of inflammation, convulfions, locked jaw, and, in fome cafes, death follow. Wounds of the large arte- ries and veins are always dangerous, as the q 4 hemorrhagy232 Lofs of Continuity. hemorrhagy from them may occafion im- mediate death; or, the parts below being deprived of the neceffary quantity of blood, mortification enfues. Wounds penetrating the large cavities of the joints are always dangerous, by the admiffion of the external air, into cavities unaccuftomed to it, High- degrees of inflammation are the confequence. Wounds may at lafl prove fatal, which at firft did not feem to be attended with any danger; fuch as, wounds of the lungs, aorta, and flomach. By a partial debility occafioned in any pa?t of a bowel, a rupr ture at laft may be the confequence (Q. 113.). Inflammation arifing from wounds, being communicated to vifcera important to life, is always attended with danger. 0. 297. How id a fimple ineijed Wound to be treated ? • # A. By obviating the hemorrhagy, (Q. 238.), and then extrafting any ex- traneous body, that may happen to be introduced into the wound, when it can be done, without tearing or injuring the neighbouring parts; and particularly where - it 1 o■ 4-'<33 Lofs of Continuity. 233 it happens to be of a flimulating nature. But when the cafe is other wife, when the fubflance introduced happens to lie deep, and is not of a very flimulating nature, nor contiguous to any confiderable blood velfel, it is to be allowed to remain, until the fup- puration formed in the wound throws it out. But when the wound is inflicted by a clean cutting {harp edged inftrument, and when no extraneous body happens to be introduced, the edges of the wound are to be immediately brought into contadl, and kept in that hate by adhefive plaifters or or futures, until an exudation of the gluti- nous parts of the blood forms an adhefion of oppofite fides, when new veffels (hoot out, and fupport the parts afterwards more fully. In this manner the wound is healed, by what has been named the firfi in- tention. V, / \ • . • Q. 298. What are the Sutures, that are generally ujed, for retaining the edges of Wounds in Contact? A. The different kinds of futures mud,234 Lofs of Continuity. in feme cafes, be adapted to the form of the wound. When the wound is very deep a future, named interrupted, has been ufed. By inferting two needles on one ligature, and introducing each of them at the bottom of the wound, they are to be pufhed outwardly, at a proper diflance from the edges of the wound; then the needles are to be taken off the ligature, which is now to be pulled a little, fo as to bring the edges of the wound into con- tact. A number of thefe are to be intro- duced, according to the extent of the wound. When the retraction from the edges of a wound is very confiderable, a future, termed frjoijled, has been recom- mended ; particularly when the wound is not very deep. It is executed by intro- ducing two or more pins, according to the extent of the wound, through both its edges. After placing the edges in contaft upon the pins, a wax ligature is to be twilled, fo as to form a figure of 8. In wounds of the abdomen and inteflines, a future has been recommended, named Glovers future. It confifls of a great number iLofs of Continuity. 235 * ‘ number of flitches, connected in a fpiral dire£lion, along the edges of the fore. • * O. 299. On what does the want of fuccefs in the Cure of fmple incifed Wounds de- pend ? A. When the difcharge from the fore is exceffive, fo as materially to weaken the the patient ; when no proper pus is formed on the furface of the fore; when the retrafdion is fo confiderable, that the edges cannot be brought into contafi, and when high degrees of inflammation and pain occur, fuch circumflances are always prejudicial to the healing of wounds. ^ * • Q. 300. How are the circumflances (O. 299.) tending to prevent the Cure of fmple incifed Wounds to be obviated ? A. When the difcharge from the fore is exceffive, the patients ftrength is to be fupported by a proper diet. Wlfen no pus is formed on the furface of the fore, the application of heat, by means of poultices, and a proper regimen are to be ufed. Poultices236 Lojs oj Continuity. Var. Poultices are not, however, to be too early applied, as a certain degree of inflammation is necefl'ary, for fecreting the ferum (O. 2.), which is afterwards converted into pus. Poultices are immediately to be laid aflcle as foon as pus is formed; for, when they are continued longer, they feem to do harm. When the retraftion of the edges of the wound is confiderable, to haften the cure, the edges are to be brought as nearly in contafl: as poflible, by relaxing the neigh- bouring mufcles. High degrees of inflam- mation are to be obviated, by an antiphlo- giftic regimen (Q. 8.), particularly by both general and topical blood-letting. In cafes of extraordinary pain and irritation, opiates are to be ufed and the irritating caufes re- moved, if poflible.• 4 '<33 Lofs of Continuity. 237 V Var. b. punctura§. - ' Syn. Punctured Wound. Q- 301- From whence cirifes the danger of Punctured Wounds? A. From their form, which is always 1 ' more favourable for allowing matter to lodge within them; from the chance of a nerve or tendon being partially divided, and of fome great blood veffel deeply feated, being wounded, which cannot be readily fecured, or laid hold of. 0.302. How are PunElured Wounds to be treated ? A. To effe6t a cure of a Pun&ured Wound fome recommend a certain decree of in* flammation to be produced, by means of a feton, or irritating inje&ion, and then, by compreffion, to keep the fides of the wound in contaft. Others recommend a free and extenfive incifion to be made in the fore, fo as to convert it into the form of a fimple * Pun&ura, Sauvagtfius^ Linruzus. Sagarus. inched23 8 Lofs of Continuity, incifed wound (O. 297.). The firft of thefe may be fometimes ufed with propriety, when no extraneous body is lodged in the wound ; when no confiderable hemorrhagy takes place; when the punftures lie deep and contiguous to fome large blood veffels; when the punftures pafs into the oppofite fide of the integuments, fo that a counter opening can be made oppofite to the punc- ture. But when on the contrary the direc- tion of the wound is fuch, as not to admit of a counter opening, when there is reafon to underhand fome extraneous body is lodged in the wound, or by the hemorrhagy, that fome confiderable blood vefiel has been wounded, which cannot be laid hold of, then an extenfive incilion is to be made into the wound, fo as to convert it into the form of a fimple incifed wound. In fome cafes, when the feton cannot be introduced, throwing in injeftions of mild aftringent fubftances, may have fome effefl; but thefe are never to be attempted until every other method has failed, as they are apt to pro- duce a degree of callofity on the furface of th^ wound, which is always unfavourable 3 for 1Lofs of Continuity. for the healing. The injections generally ufed, are oak bark, wine, lime water, and faccharum faturni. In fome cafes, alfo, the external opening of the wound heals, before Granulations are formed at the bottom. o This ought to be guarded againft by proper tents, which {well by the moifture of the fore, and fo keep the wound of the fame fize. O. 303. When a Nerve or Tendon is par- tially divided, what are ike confequences ? A. When, in performing the operation of blood-letting, a nerve happens to be partially divided, from the prick of a lancet, the whole of the part foon after the operation affumes cm eryfipelatous appear- ance; the parts about the wound become tenfe, and the pulfe becomes hard and quick; the pain grows intenfe; the patient is exceedingly reftlefs; twitchings of the tendons, and a locked jaw, often take place; and the patient is at laft carried off in a fit of convulfions. 0.- 304.240 Lofs of Continuity. Var. ■ % * O. 304. How are Wounds of Nerves and Tendons to be treated ? * A. From the degrees of inflammation that enfue from wounds of the nerves, the antipldogifiic regimen has been generally recommended. Several topical applica- tions have alfo been ufed; particularly folutions of faccharum faturni, which is preferable to any warm application. By many the warm bath has been recommend- ed, and by others the cold bath. When locked jaw has taken place, mercurials and emollients have been recommended. When the pain is exccflive, opiates, in full dofes, are attended with the bell effefcfo. When all thefe remedies fail, it has been advifed to make a free mcifion in the parts, above the place chiefly aiTetted, when immediate relief is laid to be obtained, by a divifion of the contiguous nerves and tendons. The after treatment of the wound, is the fame as recommended already for Ample incifed wounds (O. 297).fOH ■ 4.33 ■ ' 1 ' ~ Lofs of Continuity. 241 Var. C. LACERATURA * Syn. Lacerated Wound. O. 305. What is a Lacerated Wound, and how is it to be treated ? i \ A. A lacerated wound is occafioned by forcibly tearing afunder parts, without a cutting inftrument, and is attended with ragged edges. Such wounds are to be treated, by ufing an antiphlogiftic regimen, and by applying the edges of them as dole together as poffible, as already recommend- ed (Q. 297.). 0 0 Var. D. CONTUSURA Syn. Contused Wound. Q. 306. From whence arifes the danger of Contufed Wounds ? A. From the chance of the organization of die part being completely deftroyed, fb * Laceratura, Linnccus. § Contufura, Linnceus. R that242 Lojs oj Continuity. ■ \ that circulation may be impeded, and mor- tification be the confequence. The irrita- tion of contufed wounds is alfo fometimes fo very confiderable, as to excite' fuch a de- gree of inflammation, as will terminate in gangrene, notwithftanding every method • taken to prevent it. / \ Q- 307- Hozo is a Contufed Wound to be treated ? A. When the injury done to the part has been fo very confiderable, as to deftroy the veflels of the part intirely, and when, in confequence of mortification, a feparation of the contufed from the found parts takes place, or when the contulion has been ex- tenfive, it may prove fatal, particularly when it happens upon parts eflential to life. The principal objefi, in the treatment ol contufed wounds, therefore, is to obviate gangrene as much as poflible, by preventing high degrees of inflammation from taking place, by a ftrifl: antiphlogiflic regimen, and particularly topical bleeding with leeches. The parts are to be covered with emollientfOH • Ll.<33 243 Lofs of Continuity. emollient poultices, to favour the forma- tion of pus, but when, notwithftanding every attempt, gangrene has once come on, all further difcharges are to be prevented, and the molt nourishing diet., with wine and bark, are to be ufecL The bark is to be taken into the ftomach, in fuch quantities > as it can bear. Q. 308. How are Wounds, penetrating the Capjular Ligaments of the Joint to be treated ? A. Though wounds of the Capfular Liga- ments of the Joints, do not feem at firfl alarming, yet by expofurc to the air the lining membrane of fuch cavities ac- quires fuch a degree of fenfibility, as to endanger life, when it happens to be the cavity of fome of the great joints. As foon, therefore, as any extraneous body pufhed into the joint, is removed, the ad- miflion of the external air is to be guarded againfl, as much as poffible. But when, from, inattention,’ or mifmanagement, high degrees of inflammation are produced, an antiphlogiftjc regimen becomes neceffary- R 2 When241 Lojs of Continuity. I When matter, in confequence of fuch in- flammation, is found within the cavity of the joint, it is to be evacuated, as recom- mended for dropfical fwellings of the joint (Q. 97.). Where the ligament is much contufed amputation becomes neceffary. O, 309. How arc Wounds, penetrating ■ ike Trachea and CEJbpfiagus, to be treated? A. The hemorrhagy is to be fecured, as already recommended (O. 238.V Should the carotid arteries happen to be divided, they are to be fecured by ligature, as it gives the patient a fmall chance of life, from the brain being fupplied by the vertebrals. If the jugular vein is wounded it is to be treated in the fame manner. When wounds of the Trachea are of a longitudinal direc- tion, flraps may keep their edges in con- tact. The mod common direction, how- ever, of wounds of the trachea, is, a tranf- verfe incifion between two of the cartilages. When they happen to run deep, the in- terrupted future (Q. 298.) is to be ufed. The head of the patient is to be at the fame time kept in a bended Hate, during the cure. Wounds /lOH H..33 ■ ■ • •• ■ ~i ' 1| Lofs of Continuity. 245 Wounds of the CEfophagus are to be treated in the fame manner. In longitudinal wounds of the CEfophagus, a cure may be comnleted, without the affillance of art. A. 1 • O. 310. How arc Wounds penetrating into the cavity of the Thorax, dijiinguijhed from Juperficial Wounds of the Thorax ? A. From the length, into which the in- ftrument inflicting them, has penetrated. It may be alfo diilinguifhed, whether wounds have penetrated into the cavity of the thorax, by throwing mild injections into them. If they are only fuperficial, the injeCtions return immediately. When air is extravafated in the cellular fubftance (O. 41.), it is a proof of the lungs being wounded, particularly when the quantity Oi blood difeharged, is confiderable, and of a frothy red colour. When blood is thrown up by the mouth, we may be certain of the lungs being, wounded. The pulfe alio becomes feeble, and the breathing la- borious, in wounds of the lungs, by the compreflion on them from the extravafated blood. R 3 Q-3”- I246 Lofs of Continuity. O. 311. How are Wounds penetrating into the Cavity of the Thorax, and injuring its contentsto be treated? A. When confiderable hemorrhagy oc- curs, from the intercoftal arteries lodged in the grove of the ribs, it is to be obviated, by a doffel of lint over the artery, and by furrounding the artery, rib, and portion of the pleura, by one ligature. The extra- vafated blood is, then, to be removed, as already recommended (Q. 127.). When the hemorrhagy proceeds from the lungs, a ftrift antiphlogihic regimen is advifeable. When the heart or any of the great velfels are divided, death is very foon the confe- quence, either from the immediate hemorr- hagy occalioned, or from the partial debi- lity, occafioned from the cicatrix. Should the wound happen to heal, an aneurifm is formed (O. 204.). When the thoracic du£t happens to be divided, the patient ought to be kept for fome time on a fpare diet, which (hould be repeated frequently, and in f nail quantities. Whatever haftens the motion of the heart, or of refpiration, is to * ~ beit 4 blood ■ 4.<ag Lofs-of Continuity. 247 1 be guarded againft. When the diaphragm, or mediaftinum, is wounded, all that can be done is to ufe a drift antiphlogiftic regi- men. In fuperficial wounds of the thorax, the cure is to be attempted by a feton or incifion (Q. 302.). When in confequence of the inflammation of fuch wounds matter is formed, it is to be difcharged as foon as • pollible, to prevent its penetrating the thorax. . > * ' ' Q. 312. What are the Diagnojlic Symp- toms, whether Wounds have penetrated into the Cavity of the Abdomen ? * ‘ ‘j A. By attending to the depth, to which the inftrument infliftinq; the wound has penetrated, and to the difcharge from the wound, it can be readily diflinguifhed, whether wounds have penetrated into the Cavity of the Abdomen. When a difcharge of fceces, liquor pancreatis, or bile, takes place, it is a proof of the wound not only 1 having penetrated the cavity of the abdo- I men, but alfo injured its contents. The I Rate of the pulfe may likewife aluft the I diagnofis ; for when a great quantity of • I248 Lofs of Continuity. blood is effufed, fainting fits and cold fweatx come on, and the pulfe becomes low. When the ftomach is wounded, fingultus and vomiting of blood generally take place. When blood is alfo palfed by ftool, there is reafon to fufpeft, that fome of the bowels have been wounded; particularly fome portion of the alimentary canal. When blood is difcharged by the - urine (Q. 243.), there is reafon to fuppofe, the ureters or kidnies have been wounded. Wounds of the fpleen and liyer may be readily diftinguilhed, from their fituation. When the myfentery is wounded., a difk charge of chyle takes place. Q. 313. Horn, are Wounds, penetrating into, the Cavity of the Abdomen, and injuring its contents, to be treated? A. When no alarming fymptom occurs, immediately after a wound fuppofed to have penetrated into the Cavity of the Abdomen, the principal thing to be attended to, is, the prevention of the external air, as much as polfible, from finding accefs into the cavity of the abdomen; as the confeque'nce, from . ' . ' ’ ' theLofs of Continuity. 249 the admiflion of it, might prove fatal, inde- pendent of any wound of the bowels. When any of the vifcera protrude through the wound, and a mortification of them has taken place, they are to be treated as re- commended for Hernia (O. 144.). When any portion of the intefline is divided, it has been recommended to flitch it with the Gcover’s future (O. 298.). The fame fu- ture maybe alfo ufed in wounds of the fto- mach, when a ftrift antiphlogiftic regimen ought to be adhered to, and nourifhing in- jections fhould be thrown up by the anus to fupport life. When any of the lafteals are wounded, they are to be fecured, ifpoflible, by ligatures. When the kidnies happen to be wounded, the urine palling through the external wound, renders its edges callous, and fo prevents it from healing, When this takes place, the callous edges of the fore are to be removed from time to time, by lunar cauftic. When the bladder happens to be wounded,, the Glover’s future may be alfo ufed (O. 298.)- In wounds of the uterus, when in a pregnant ftate, the lie- morrhagy that fucceeds, is generally very confi--5° Zfl/* of Continuity. confiderable. Little can be done to obvi- ate it, until the foetus is expelled. The con- traction of the uterus will generally then effeft a doppage of further hemorrhagy. Should abortion, therefore, be threatened, upon wounds being inflicted on the uterus, nothing fhould be done to obviate it. O. 314. How are tranfuerfe Wounds of the Orbicularis Mufcle of the Eye, to be treated ? A. When the divided portions are at too great a diftance from one another, rather than draw them forcibly together, nature is to be traded to make up the deficiency ; hut when the retraflion of the edges is not confiderable, the twilled future (O. 298.), is to be ufed, to retain the edges in conta£i< It mud be ufed in fuch a nice manner, as not to render the eye-ball too tight, or im- * pede its motion in the lead. The eye diould be clofed, and a comprefs laid over it, fo as to prevent its rolling. The comprefs is to- be fecured by a proper bandage. Q-3j5-Lofs of Continuity. 251 O. 315. From whence arifes the Danger of Wounds of the Eye-Ball? A. From the high degree of inflamma- tion, occafioned by fuch, either a partial or complete blindnefs is occafioned. The bones of the orbit being exceedingly thin, fuch wounds are in danger of affefting the brain. The danger of fuch wounds arife alfo from the extent of them ; particularly when they are fo confiderable, as to allow the whole of the humours of the eye to efcape. Specks are generally the confe- quence of wounds of the lucid cornea: Thefe alone may occaiion complete blind- nefs. O. 316. How is a Divifion of the Duel of the Parotid Gland to be treated,? A. When the divifion is of a recent na- ture, and the faliva has not rendered the edges of the wound callous, by running over the cheek, both the Tides of the wound I are to' be applied as clofe together as pof~ I Able. But when the du£l is entirely obli- j terated, and the faliva runs along the cheek, anan artificial paflage is to be made, which is to be kept afterwards open, by inferting into them a piece of bougie, until the edges grow callous. The bougie fhould then be removed, and the external wound treated in the common manner, Var. E. MORS UR A*. \ I Syn. Bite of Mad Animals. O. 317. How arc Wounds, arifrng from the Bite of Mad Animals, to be treated? A. The injured part ought to be re- moved by the a final cautery, or fcalpel, as boon as poffible after the accident. It fhould be attempted, however, at any time before hydrophobia takes place, as there are inftances of no alarming fymptoms oc- curring forfeveral weeks after the accident. Mercurial friftions, and fea bathing, are faid to be of lome fervice in preventing hy- drophobia. The fame method of cure has * Morfura, Linnecus, alfo■ 4 ■<33 \ Lofs of Continuity. 253 1 . f . , v ' alio been recommended for the bite of the viper The cutting out of the part ought, however, to be more early performed, as the poifon of vipers operates more quickly than that of other animals. In fome cafes, a few hours after the accident, languor, nau- lea, and vomiting, cold fweats, convulfions, and a yellow colour over all the body, takes place. Florence oil has been recommend- ed in fuch cafes. Whatever produces a co- pious fweat is found in general to alleviate the effeft of the poifon. When wounds are poifoned by the matter of lues venerea, cancer, or by fome of the vegetable or mi- neral powers, the fame mode of treatment is applicable, of cutting out the poifoned part. ' Var. F. S C L OPE TOPI: AG A f * Syn. Gunshot Wounds. Q. 318. From whence arifes the Danger or Gun [hot Wounds ? ./ */ A. From the great degree of contufion * Vulnus VirulentuTtij Sauvagsfius. t Sclopetoplaga, Sudanis. Vulnus Sclopetarum, Sate- vagcjhts, attending oLofsof Continuity. 254 attending them, and the high degreeof inflam- mation, which generally enfues, and which* when it does not terminate in direct morti- fications, is apt to produce fuch a difcharge of pus from their furface, as to exhauft the patient. The danger of gunfhot wounds arifes alfo, from their being fometimes at- tended with a fracture of the bones. Q- 3*9- How are Gunfhot Wounds to be treated ? A. The mode of treatment 'mull be the fame as recommended for contufed wounds. Unlefs the hemorrhagy be profufe, there is no occafion for flopping it. The ball, and any extraneous body happening to be pufhed in along with it, are to be extracted ; particularly when they happen to be lodged in a bone, on account of the pain and ten- lion they occafion from the unyielding na- ture of the bone. The ball may be extract- edby the common forceps; if it cannot be effected in this manner, a counter opening' is to be made in the oppofite fide, and the bail in this manner may be extracted. WhenLofs of Continuity. 255 When a flough happens to form on the fur- face of the fore, nothing removes it fo ef- fectually, as a plentiful fuppuration : but when the difcharge happens to be very great, it is to be obviated, by fupporting, in the firft place, the ftrength of the pa- tient, and afterwards removing any irritat- ing fubftance, that may happen to be flill lodged in the wound. When, in confe- quence of gunfhot wounds, the large joints have been injured, by the ends of the bones being much fhattered, or wdren one of the large bones of the extremities is fhattered in its whole length, and attended with much O 5 contufion, and laceration of the cor respond- ing foft parts, immediate amputation is ad- * vifeable. ♦ % O. 320. Providing a Surgeon has his ' choice, what are the mojl eligible parts cf per- fm nning Amputation in the Extremities ? A. It always ought to be an unvaried rule, to fave as much of the upper extremi- ties as poffible. When amputation is ne- ceffary below the knee, although the affec- tion be in the ancle joint, nine inches X • be- i 9mm« 255 Lofs of Continuity. below the knee anfwers beft in the adult. But when the alfeftion is fituated above this, amputation above the knee has been found, in every cafe, to anfwer beft. O. 321. How is Amputation above the Knee Joint to be performed ? * 1 A. After laying the patient in an hori- zontal pofture, on a proper table, or bed, a culhion is to be laid on the courfe of the \ « femoral artery, above which the ftrap of the tourniquet (O. 238.), is to be applied, a few inches above the part >vdiere the firft incifion is intended to be made. An aftift- ant is now to fit on a low feat, before the patient, and to lay hold of the limb, while another pulls up the integuments. The furgeon now, handing on the outfide of the patient, is with one fweep of the knife to divide the greateft part of the integuments; with a fecond fweep, which fhould be a continuation of the firft, he is to complete the circle. As loon as the integuments are divided, a portion of them is to be differed, by a fcalpel from the mufcles, fo as to cover'OH-4.<33 Lofs of Continuity. 257 \ cover the flump completely. Then the fur- geon is to take the amputation knife a fe~ cond time, and he is to divide the whole of the mufcles, a little higher up than the firft incifion in the integuments, perpendicularly to the bone. Then the mufcles are to be feparated a little from the bone, to admit of its being divided a little higher up than _ \ the mufcles. Two retra&ors are then to be applied to fupport the foft parts, and keep them from being injured by the faw, with which the bone is now to be cautioufly, and with gentle flrokes, divided. As foon as the leg is removed, any protruding fpi- culae left by the faw are to be taken off by a pair of pincers made for that purpofe. If the femoral artery is difcovered, it is imme- diately to be fecured by a ligature. The tourniquet is then to be flackened a little, to difcover any other veflels which may be eafily laid hold of and fecured (O. 238.). Then the clotted blood is to be removed by a fponge, and the ligatures are to be allowed to hang out, at the inferior angle of the wound. The edges of the wound being now brought into contact, by drawing the s integu-258 Lofs of Continuity. integuments over the furface of the wound, they are to be retained by adhefive (traps, fo as to effect a cure by the firfl intention. The wound is then to be covered by foft lint, and the patient is to be laid in bed, and an opiate given him. The (lump is then to be laid on a pillow, to which it* (hould be fixed by (traps, and the pillow fhould be alfo fecured to the bed, to prevent any fpafmodic ftarting of the (tump. To obviate the inconvenience attending the preffure of the bed cloaths upon the (tump, a frame with a number of hoops is gene- rally recommended. The tourniquet (hould be allowed to remain (till upon the limb, but in a very (lack (late, as it may be im- mediately (traitened by the perfon attending the patient, upon any fudden hemorrhagy occurring, until the furgeon is called for, to fecure the bleeding veffels. ' \ - ■ - Q. 322. In the after treatment of Ampu- tation, zohat are the principal Circumfances to be attended to ? A. To prevent exceffive inflammation fromZeA ^ Continuity. 259 fOH Ll .<33 from taking place, by ufing a drift anti- phiogiftic regimen. But this rule is not to be always followed in weak relaxed habits* where a different mode of treatment is ne- ceflary. The firft dreffings ought to be re- moved the third day after the operation, and new dreffings are to be applied, as at firft, every fecond day, until the inflamma- tion has entirely fubfided. Then the liga- tures are to be removed, pulling them gra- dually and gently every day, until they are come eafily offl * Q. 323. How is Amputation performed below the Knee-Joint? A. The firft incifion is to be made through the integuments as recommended (Q. 321.) for amputation above the knee. The mufcles are to be divided in the fame manner alfo ; then the interofieus ligament is to be divided by a fcalpel, or catalene, and the retraftors applied in Rich a way as to proteft the foft parts from the faw, with which the bones are to be divided, in fuch a manner as to have them both cut through s 2 atat the fame time. The wound and after treatment is the fame as recommended for amputation above the knee (Q. 321. and 322-)- ' ’• ' ; . Q. 324. How is Amputation with a Flap performed, in the Hip Joint? A. A fmall cufhion being placed over the femoral artery, immediately as it paffes below Paupert’s ligament, a circular incifion is to be made, about four inches below the cufhion, through the integuments. Then the mufcles are to be divided perpendicu- larly down to the bone. A longitudinal incifion is now to be made, on the pofterior part of the thigh, with a fcalpel, as far up as the acetabulum; a fimilar incifion being made on the oppofite and anterior part of the thigh, fo as to form two flaps. The botle is to be turned inwards, to allow the point of the fcalpel to reach the ligamenr turn rotundum of the joint. As foon as it is divided, the operation is finifhed, after fecuring the hemorrhagies as already re- commended (Q. 238.), the flaps are to be applied clofc together, and kept in contaft, untilr\ Lofs of Continuity. until a cure is completed by adhefive ftraps. Q- 325- How is Amputation performed at the Shoulder Joint, Toes, and Fingers ? A. The hemorrhagy may be managed, by preffing with the fingers on the fubcla- vian artery, as it pafTes over the firft rib; or by making an incifion on the courfe of the artery, and fecuring it with a ligature, before beginning the operation. A circu- lar incifion is to be made about three inches below the head of the humerus ; then two other incifions are to be made, one on the anterior, the other on the pofterior part of the humerus, fo as to form a flap, as recom** mended for amputation at the hip joint (O. 324.). Amputation of the toes and fin- gers are generally performed in the joints, in the fame manner, by leaving a flap of the foft parts, to cover the flump. ^3 FRAG * ♦ y262 Lofs of Continuity. FRACTURA* COMPLICATE Syn. Compound Fracture. ' ' ' V S Q. 326. What is a, Compound FraBure ? A. It is a lofs of continuity in the fub- fiance of the bones, attended with a corref* ponding wound in the foft parts* and oc- cafioned by external violence, » • , - b- Var. A. THLASIS Syn. Fracture of the Bones of the Head, with Compression. . t Q. 237. What are the Diagnojtic Symp- toms attending FraBure of the Bones of the Cranium ? A, The bones of the Cranium being beat in by external violence, diminilh its cavity, by the deprelfed pieces occupying fome of the natural fpace allowed for the brain. The * Fraftura, Sauvagejius, Culltnus, Linnaus, Gaubius, Villars. i ThUfts, Fogdius, blood- 4 ',-QQ Lofs of Continuity. 263 blood effufed, in confequence of fraftures, may have alfo the fame effeft; fo that, in either cafe, compreffion of the brain is the confequence. When this takes place, its funftions are obftrufted; an appoplettic ftertor of the breathing comes on; lofs of voluntary motion, ‘convulfions, tremor, in- voluntary difcharge of the urine and fceces, giddinefs, dimnefs of fight, dilatation of the pupil; fometimes a hemorrhagy from the nofe, eyes, and ears, occur, and fometimes the fratlure of the bone may be diftinguiffied through the external wound in the integu- ments. In forne cafes, however, frafture of the bones of the cranium occurs, with- out any external wound. In fuch a cafe, it is difficult to determine, whether a frafciure , 1 has taken place or not. When a tumour, however, arifes from a recent contufion, at- tended with the above fymptoms, there can be no doubt of the exiftence of a frafture. But, in a few cafes, compreffion has been found to take place, without any tumour arifing. In fuch cafes the head ought to be fhaved, and an equal degree of preffure ought to be laid over the whole of it, when s 4 the 7,I 264 Lojs of Continuity. the injured part is eafily difcovered frorp the reft, by its being more painful. Whep compreftion of the brain arifes from extra- vafation of fluids, as blood, ferum, or pus, in confequenee of inflammation, occafioned by frafture of the bones, the feat of it is difficult to determine ; particularly when no • depreffion takes place, or when no external wound is feen in the integuments, t O. 328. How is Comprefjion dtfinguiflied from Concujfion of the Brain? A. The fymptoms attending compreftion pf the brain, occur alfo in concuffion, but, in a comprefted ftate of the brain, they are more permanent. There is alfo ap apopleftic ftertorin the breathing, which js always want- ing in patients labouring under concufiion; for they leem in a found natural fleep. The pulfe is alfo foft and equal in concuffion, and not irregular and flow, as ip cafes of compreftion. When, upon extrafling a fmall quantity of blood, the pulfe is found to fink confiderably, there is reafon to fup~ pofe it depends upon concuffion. When, on^ OH • 4.£3 Lojs of Continuity, 265 \ 1 on the contrary, the pulfe grows ftronger and fuller, there are good grounds for fuf- peciing that the affeftioti depends upon compreffion, O. 329. How is CompreJJion of the Brain, arifingfrom a DcpreJJion oj the Bones of the Cranium, to be treated? A. The wound is firft to be enlarged, to afcertain the exiftence of the fra&ure. Its fituation and extent is then to be attend- ed to. When feveral detached pieces of the cranium prefs upon the brain, they are to be removed by a forceps. But when a portion of the cranium preffes upon the brain, and is not detached from the other bones of the cranium, and is fo fituated, that it can neither be removed, nor raifed into the fame level with the reft of the bones, without a confiderable rifle of injuring the brain very materially, an inftrument, named trepan, has been generally employed, to make a perforation, at the points, prevent- ing the bone from being raifed, fo as to admitLojs of Continuity. 266 admit of an inftrument for elevating the de- prefied portion of the bone. Such perfor- ations are, however, attended with more danger in fofrie parts of the cranium than in others. A complete knowledge, there- fore, of the anatomy of the head, is abfo- luteiy necefiary. The mod dangerous parts are the frontal fmufes and the back part of the occipital bone. As Toon as this opera- tion is determined to be performed, a fmall portion of the pericranium maybe removed by a fcalpel, juft equal to the modeolus of the trepan. A fmall hole is, then, to be made with a perforator, to admit of the center pin of the trepan, which ought to be of a cylindrical form. A portion of the depreffed piece may be included within the circular divifron, made by the trepan. The weight of the inftrument, during the oper- ation, is to be laid on the contiguous found bone. Several turns being now performed by the faw, the center pin is to be re- moved. The furgeon may ufe either a trepan or trephine; but the former exe- cutes the operation much quicker, and an- swers equally well, by moving it flowly and cau-cautioufly, when he has nearly penetrated through the bone; or the burgeon may be- gin the operation by the trepan, and finilh it by the trephine. The trepan ought to be frequently removed, to examine what depth it has penetrated. Every time it is removed, it is to be rubbed with a fmall brufh, made for the purpofe. As boon as the burgeon has come to the diploe, he is to fecure any hemorrhagy of conbequence, that may occur (O. 238.). When the bone is nearly divided through, if one portion of the bone is completely divided, and the reft ftill uncut, the prefbure of the inftrument is to be entirely applied to the undivided portions. As boon as the bone is found loobe, it is to be removed by a fmall forceps, made for that purpofe. The depreffed por- tion of the bone is now to be raifed, by an inftrument termed a levater, introduced at the opening made by the trepan, below the depreffed portions of the bones. If, after applying a conbiderable degree of force, the bone cannot ftill be raifed, and if it feems to be wedged in by borne other procefs ot bone, the trepan is to be applied again at that*68 Lojs of Continuity. that part. The depreffed piece being now raifed, and any extraneous body that may Jiappen to have been pufhed in upon the dura mater, extrafted, the clotted blood, or ferum being alfo removed, the wound is to ■i ° be dreffed with a little lint, fpread over with fome Ample ointment, and the patient * is to be laid in bed in the eafieft manner. Inflammation of the brain is now particu- larly to be guarded againft, by a ftrift anti- phlogifiic regimen. The matter formed on the furface of the wound, is to be removed cautioufly, by a fponge. By degrees, new granulations form on the furface of the dura mater, and fometimes extend beyond it, and form tumours ; which may be eafily removed, by ligature, or they may be touched by lunar cauflic. Q. 330. In Cafes of Comprejfion of the Brain, f rom Extravafation of Fluids, when the feat of the Injury cannot be afeertained, ought the Trepan to be applied ? A. An ambiguous remedy is always pre- ferable to leaving the patient to certain death. The prognofis as to its fuccefs, {houldLofs of Continuity. 26g l Q- 332. » \ 9 r t * fhould therefore, be always guarded. When an operation is to be attempted, the firfl: perforation ought to be made in the molt inferior point of the cranium, in which an operation can be, with propriety, attempt- ed. If any fluid is difcharged by the open- ing, another perforation ought to be made. If the colleflion happens to be between the dura and pia mater, a fmall hole may be cautioufly fcratched in the dura mater. ■ 1 * 1 - * • . / , Q- 331- What are the Symptoms, that prognojlicate Succefs, from the Operation of the Trepan ? \ A. When, upon the removal of the compreffion, an immediate advantage feems to be derived, by the patient becoming lefs ftupid, and his breathing lefs oppreffed, and when the pupils begin to contradl upon be- | ing expofed to a ftrong light, a deal of fuc- cefs may be expefted, from the operation; and even although thefe favourable fyrnp- j toms do not immediately occur, upon the compreffion being removed, flill the fuccefs I may be compleat, II 270 Lofs of Continuity. 9 Q. 332. Ought the Trepan to be applied in every fimple fijfwre of the Cranium ? A. Whenafimplefiffure is not attended with the fymptoms of compreffion, the trepan fhould never be applied, as the application of it, by the mod cautious operator, cannot, fail to injure the dura mater materially. A fimple fiffure may extend through one ta- ble of the fkull only. In fuch cafes the ap- plication of the trepan does a great deal of harm, by admitting the external air upon the furface of the dura mater. Should any ex- travafation take place, from a laceration of veffels, in fimple fifTures, the compreffion induced by fuch is indicated by the fymp- toms (O. 329.), attending compreffion. In fuch cafes the trepan is to be applied ; but in fimple fiffures, not attended with fuch fymptoms, the antiphlogilfic regimen alone is fufficient. Q. 333. How is Concufion of the Brain to be treated ? A. As the caufes feem to aft by produc- ing a derangement of the organization of theLofs of Continuity. 271 the brain, confecjuently a diminution ol its natural powers, ftimulants have therefore been ufed with greater fuccels in cafes of conculhon, than any other remedies; par- ticularly wine, cordials, nourifhing diet, and external ftimuli to the furface of the body, as blitters and rubefacients. O. 334. What Prognofs Jhould be given of AffeElioris of the Brain in general,produced ■ by external violence? A. From the delicacy of the orginaza- tion of the brain, from its fituation, from its being often affefted, when no mark of external violence is obferved, from the dif- ficulty of removing affections of the brain, although the feat of the injury was ascer- tained, and from the molt violent fymptoms not always occurring from the largeft frac- ture, but from feveral circumflances, per- haps unknown, the prognofis in affections of the brain from external violence, ought always to be guarded. 3 Var.Var. r. fractura complicata OSSIUM EXTREMITATUM. i * Compound Fracture of the Extre- mities. Q- 335- How are Compound Fractures of the Bones of the Extremities to be treated ? A. The hemorrhagy attending fuch frac- tures, is to be obviated, as already recom- mended (Q. 228.). But when the veffel, from which the hemorrhagy proceeds, is lituated fo deep, that it cannot be brought into view, or fecured, without making ex- tenfive incifions into the fubftance of the limb ; or when the ends of the bones are much fhattered, and detached from one an- other, fo that there is an impoifibility of their uniting again, immediate amputation is advifeable. But when the hemorrhagy can be eafily fecured, the fraciured ends of the bones are to be placed as exafily into their natural fituation as pofiible, by relax- ing the mufcles, and by ufing a fmall degree ofof extenfion, if the fra&ured ends happen to overlope one another. The hisrh decree JL O O of inflammation that generally fucceeds, is now to be guarded again!!, as much as pof- fible, by preventing the acceffion of the ex- ternal air into the wound, and by a ftri6l antiphlogiftic regimen. But when, notwith- ftanding of every precaution, the inflamma- tory fymptoms run fo high, as either to oc- cafion extenfive mortification, or to endan- ger the patients finking under the dif- charge, amputation is to be performed, as foon as the inflammation is diminifhed, as amputation can only be at this period of the affection ufed with propriety. For the hemorrhagy in the extremities can be for fome time flopped, by means of the tourni- quet, and the detached portions may have fome chance of uniting. Mortification ne- ver takes place after the accident, and the diicharge from the wound is never confider- able, until the firfl inflammation is over. Therefore amputation fhould never be per- formed immediately after the accident; as it is afcertained, as a fa£l, that a greater proportion have died, of thofe on whom the .t operation274 Lojs oj Continuity. operation was early performed, than of thole where it was delayed, until the firli inflammation was over. All that is, there- fore, requifite, in the firft ftage of the af- feftion, is, to alleviate the inflammatory fymptoms as much as poflibie. The limb is to be placed in fuch a fltuation, as to allow it to be drefled without moving it. Any portion of bone, protruding through the wound, is to be removed, and the wound itfelf is. to be treated, as recom- mended already (Q. 305.), for lacerated wounds. ■ > % Gen. XXIV. INCRUENTA. FRACTURA SIMPLEX. Simple Fracture. Q- 336- What is aftmple Fracture ? A. It is a lofs of continuity in the fub- flance of the bone, not attended with any wound in the correfponding integuments.T 2 Q- 338. 'OH 14.33 Lofs of Continuity. 275 O. 337. What are the Diagnofic Symp- toms of Jimp le FraRure? A. By the tumefaftion, occafioned by the alteration of the fhape of the limb ; by the lofs of funfiion, and the acute pain ge- nerally occafioned by the fraftured ends ol the bone, lacerating; the contiguous foft parts, a diagnofismay be eafily found. The pain is fometimes fo intenfe, as to occafion convulfions, and even death, before aftual gangrene has taken place. The grating noife of the bones may be alfo obferved. By attending alfo to the degree of violence, the fituation of the wound, when the injury is infli&ed, and the habit of body of the patient, the diagnofis may be confirmed. For it is evident, that the bones are render- ed more brittle by difeafe, fuch as the lues venerea, and fea-fcurvy. Bones are alfo j more brittle in elderly perfons, and are 1 more eafily broken in their middle, it being i the hardelt and mod unyielding part, i Bones are alfo more eafily frafctured, when > laid on uneven furfaces, at the time the in- • jury is inflifted. V ' IF,'> 276 Lofs of Continuity. Q- 333- What Prognofis Jhould he given of fimple Fracture ? \ A. When the fraflure occurs in the flate of youth, in a found healthy conflitu. tion, when the fmail bones of the extremi- ties are only affefted, when the fra flu red ends can be eafily kept in contafi, or when the fra ft u re happens in the middle of the long bones, the prognofis may in general be favourable. But when a fraflure is at- tended with lues or fcurvy; when the pa- tient is of an old, infirm confcitution; when any of the large bones, as that of the hu- merus, are fraflured near their extremities, fo that the retention of them becomes dif- * * ficult; when exfoliation takes place, and when the injury done to the foft parts has been c'onfiderable, fo as to occafion high degrees of inflammation, the prognofis fhould be always guarded. O. 339. How are fimple Fractures to be treated ? A. The bones are to be placed as nearly as pofllble in their natural fxtuation, as recomm-I 'oh -i+.aa Lofs of Continuity. 277 recommended for compound fraclure (Q> 327.). The inflammatory fymptoms are to be obviated, by a ftrift antiphlogiftic regi- men, to prevent the formation of deep feated abfcefles, which are generally the confe- quence of inflammation, produced by con- tufion, attending Ample fraclures. Q. 340. cefs in the pend ? On what does the want of Sue- A. The want of fuccefs generally arifes from the extremities of the fraftured bones, not being properly applied together ; or owing to their not being retained with ex- attnefs, after they had been once replaced. The want of fuccefs alfo arifes from a fu- perabundance of callus, growing fo lux- uriantly that nothing is found to prevent it. In fuch a cafe, prefllire with a plate of lead has. been recommended, together with ardent fpirits to be rubbed upon the part. Conftitutional difeafes alfo retard the cure of fradture. Sometimes the fraflured ends of the bone become fmooth by their t 3 rub-278 Lofs of Continuity. rubbing againft one another, as to prevent them from uniting. In fuch cafes an inci- fion is to be made upon the fraftured part, and a fmall portion of the callous and fmooth edges are to be removed from the ends of the bone. When detached portions of the bone are deprived of the circulation neceftary for the formation of callus, and when their union with the reft of the bone cannot be effected, they are to be removed, as they a£t as extraneous bodies. When a portion of mufcle, or any other foft part, intervenes between the fradiured ends of the bone, it occafions the moft excruciating pains, upon the leaft motion of the limb, and is always highly unfavourable to the cure. In fuch a cafe, when the part can- not be difengaged from between the ends of the bones, after placing the limb in va- rious pofitions, an incifion is to be made, over the fractured parts, which are to be then difengaged. When colledtions ol blood are formed between the mufcles, by the {harp fpiculee of bones wounding fome of the blood-veffels, they are to be removed, and the veflels, from whence they proceed.FRAC- ’i+.aa Lofs of Continuity. 279 are to be laid hold ol, and lecured as al- * ready recommended. J \ FRACTURA OSSIUM NASI. I Fracture of the Bones of the Nose. 9- 1 1 0. 341. How are Fractures of the Bones of the Nofe to be treated ? A. Fra&ures of the bones are found to deflroy the fenfe of fmelling altogether, and lay the foundation of troublefome ulcers. The bones of the nofe, when fractured, are to be laid as exa£lly in their natural fituation as poflible, in the fame manner, as recommended for diflocation of the bones of the nofe (Q. 217.). The inflammatory fymptoms are to be particularly guarded againft, as they often occafion exfoliations of the bones of the nofe, and lay the foun- dation for polypi (Q. 217.). * T 4 \s8o \ FRACTURA OSSIUM FACIEI, Fractures of the Bones of the ’ r , • Face. \ * ' O. 342. What are the Diagnojtie Symp: toms of Fractures of the Face ? A. Frablures of the Bones of the Face are generally attended with deformity, owing to tAe bones being pufhed into the antrum max- ibare. . Fractures of the lower jaw are alfo diftinguiflied, by the degree of deformity they occafion, and from the pain and in-* equality felt. 1 ( t . . » . • Q. 243. How are Fractures of the lozver Jaw and Face to be treated? ' A. They are to be replaced, as exactly as poffible, into their natural fituation. The burgeon is to introduce the fingers of one hand on the infideof the jaw, while he direffs with the other, the fra&ured ends on the outfide of the jaw. As foon as the bones are properly placed, they are to be• 4 be fupported by proper fplints and a bandage. The patient is to avoid moving the jaw, for fome time. In fra&ures of both jaws, the fame mode of treatment is equally applicable. When any. of the bones of the face are deprefled into the an- trum maxillare, they are to be elevated, by a proper forceps, and kept in a level with the reft of the bones of the face, by adhe- sive *plaifters. FRACTURA OSSIUM THORACIS. Fractures of the Bones of the Thorax. ( * O. 344* What are the Diagnojlic Symp- toms, of Fractures of the Clavicle, Ribs, and Sternum. A. In fra&ures of the Clavicle, one end of the fraftured bone feems to be more de- prefled than the other, owing to the weight of the arm, drawing the fractured end of the bone along with it. Fraftures of the Ribs are diftinguifhed, by the inequality felt iLofs of Continuity. 282 Felt by the fingers. They are often fo flight as not to be attended to; at other times they produce alarming fymptoms, as ipitting of blood (O. 240.), and extrava- fation of air into the cellular fubftance (O. 41.). Fractures of the Sternum are at- tended with fymptoms fimilar to thofe of the ribs; as cough, and oppreffion of breathing. Very often a frafture of this bone takes place, without the fraftured ends changing their fituation* O. 345. Hove arc Fractures of the Cla- vicle, Ribs, and Sternum, to be treated ? * x 1 A. In Fraftures of the Clavicle, merely raifing the arm, and keeping it for fome time in a proper height, fully anfwers all that is neceflary. This is to be executed by a fling hung round the neck. In frac- tures of the Ribs, all that can be done, is, to furround the body by a wide roller, to prevent any ltiecjuabty that may arile from the fractured ends of the rib. \V lien the Sternum is frattured, and produces alarm- ing fymptoms (O. 344.), an incifion is to beLofs of Continuity. 283 I * 'f be made over the part fufpeSed to have been fraftured, and the deprefled portion is to be raifed by means of a levator, as in operation for the trepan (Q. 329.). i * FRACTURA OSSIUM SPIN,®. » .if* Fractures of the Vertebra. I Q. 346. What are the Diagnojlic Symp* toms of Fractures oj the Spine ? A. Fra6tures of the Spine are diftinguifh- ed, by the lofs of motion in the lower ex- tremities. From the injury done to the fpinal marrow, there is alfo a degree of paralyfis produced. When the os facrum is fractured, the fymptoms occur, as in frac* tures of the reft of the fpine. Q- 347- How are Fractures of the Spine and Offa Innominata to be treated? A. When a deprefled portion of a vertebra preffes upon the fpinal marrow, and is the occafion of all the alarming fymptoms fQ„ 346.), it is to be elevated by making a per- / /284 Lofs of Co ntinuity. q FRAC- perforation with the trepan, as in fra&ures of the cranium (O. 329.). When the os facrum is fra&ured near its extremity; the furgeon after introducing his finger into the anus, is to pufh the bone into its natural place. In fraflures of the offa innominata the fame mode of treatment, as recom- mended for frafture in general, is to be adopted; by keeping the patient in an eafy unconftrained poflure, and by the appli- cation of a proper bandage, according to the fituation of the fracture, ayd the judge- ment of the furgeon. \ FRACTURA SCAPULA. Fracture of the Scapula. O. 348. How are Fractures of the Sca- pula to be treated? > * N A, The fraftured portions of the bone are to be brought as nearly into contaft as poffible, and then retained, by a long roller, during the cure. The arm is to be fufpend- ed at the fame time as much as poffible, in order to relax the contiguous mufcles.FRACh / [ 285 ] 0 I ) FRACTURA OS SIS HUMERI. J * Fractures of Q. 349. How the Shoulder Bone. \ . are Fractures of the Os Humerus to be treated? A. After relaxing the whole of the mufcles, as much as poflible, if the frac- ture is diftinguifhed to be of an oblique direftion, fo that one of the fraCtured bones overlaps the other, a moderate degree of extenfion is to be ufed, fo as to bring the fraCtured ends, as nearly as polfible, into their natural fituation; when they are to be retained, by means of a long roller, and by Iplints, and the arm is allowed to hang* But when the fraCiure happens to occur in a tranfverfe direction, the arm is not to be allowed to hang, as it prevents the frac- tured ends from coming into contaCt. In fuch cafes, therefore, it is to be fufpended by a proper bandage, or fling, hung about the neck. An antiphlogiftic regimen is in every cafe necefiary, to prevent inflam- mation.286 Lofs of Continuity in the Bones ‘ I FRACTURA OSSIUM ULNAs, RADII. CARPI ET DIGITORUM. Fracture of the Ulna, Radius,Carpi and Fingers. '< * 4 Q- 35°- Hozu are FraElures of the Bones of the Fore-Arm to be treated? A. As foon as the furgeon has replaced the bones, as already recommended (O. 32?.), fplints are to be applied, in fuch a manner, as not to impede the circulation, in the fore-arm obferving always, that the Radius be uppermoft, when the fplints are applied. The arm then is to be fupported, in the fame way as recommended for frac- tures of the humerus (O. 349.). But in fraftures of the Olacranon only, the arm is to be kept for fome time in a dillended (late, with fplints laid along the courfe of the Olacranon, and fecured by a proper bandage, which is to be loofed once a week, to prevent any contraftion, or ftiffnefs of the joint; which (hould be from time to time rubbed with fome mild ointment. Whenwithout Ilemorrhagy. 287 .. 1 # When the bones of* the Carpus happen to be fraftured, little can be done, for the retention of them. A11 antiphlogiftic re- gimen is to be enjoined and a final 1 fplint of pafteboard applied according to the lituation of the fraflured bone. When any of the bones of the fingers happen to be fraftured, fplints of pafteboard are to be ufed. They are to be applied when wet, fo as to alfume the form of the finger more readily. Thefe fplints may be afterwards fecured by a narrow roller, which ftiould be looled from time to time, to prevent a ftiffnefs or contraction of the joint. FRACTURA OSSIS FEIvIORIS. t ' Syn. Fracture of the Thigh Bone. f % , Q* 351. Hozo are Fr affaires of the Os Femons to be treated? . / / v A- By relaxing the mnfcles as already recommended (£.327.), either by the hand or by inftruments; and, as loon as the frac- tured ends of the bone are brought as nearly into contaft as pollible, retaining them in that Bate, by a proper bandage, and two fplints288 Lojs of Continuity in the Bones fplints of pafteboard. One of thefe fhould extend, from the top of the thigh, to a few inches below the knee; the other fhould extend, from the fpinous procefs of the os ilii to a little below the knee alfo. Both of - thefe fplints are to be covered with flannel, and the limb is then to -be laid on a pillow, fixed with flraps to the bed. An eighteen- tailed bandage being laid over this pillow, the leg is to be laid over the bandage. The firfl of the fplints is then to be laid on the outfide of the thigh, and the other of them is to be applied on the infide ; both of which are now to be fecured by the bandage, with fuch a degree of tightnefs, as not to obflru£l the circulation in the part. The leg, being now fecured by the bandage, is to be fixed by flraps to the pillow, to pre- vent any convullive flartings from taking place during the cure. When frafiure happens to be of an oblique direction, the retention becomes more difficult. Several machines have been invented to effefl a retention by Dr. Ait ken and others. d a. Q- 352-^OH -4.33 without Hemorrhagy. 289 O. 352. From whence arifes the want of fuccejs in the Cure of Fractures of the Thigh ? A. From the difficulty of difcovering, with exaftnefs, the direfciion and extent of the fra&ure, and from the quantity of mid- cles, covering that bone. Fratlures of the neck of this bone being miftaken for a dif- location of it (O. 184.), often prevents the cure. The want of fuccefs alfo arifes from .the difficulty of knowing precifely when the ends of the fra&ured bones are ex- s - a6lly in contact, from the difficulty of re- taining them in that fituation, and from the extraordinary ftrength of the mufcles of thofe parts, which contraft upon the leafl change of polture of the body. FRACTURA OSSIS PATELLAE. Fracture of the Patella. O. 353. How are FraEtures of the Patella \ to be treated? A. In no cafe of frafture, is it more ne- u ceffaryI 250 Lofs of Continuity in the Bones % ceflary to relax the whole of the mufcles, and to obviate the inflammatory fymptoms, than in thofe of the patella. They gene- rally occur in a tranfverfe direction; the leg is to be kept, therefore, for fome time, in an extended pofture ; two cufhions are to be applied, one above and the other below the frafture. They are then to be furrounded, together with the leg, by two circular ftraps, with two tranfverfe firaps fixed to them, which being tightened, make both compreffes approach one another. The bone is now to be kept in this fituation for a fortnight, unlefs the pain or inflam- mation render it neceffary to remove them * earlier. FRACTURAOSSIUM TIBLE, FIBULAE, TARSI, and BIGITORUM PEDIS. Fractures of the Bones of the Leg and Foot. O. 354. How are Fractures of the Bonej of the Leg and Foot to be treated ? A. In the fame manner as recommended for 1RUP- U 2 I ■ 4.(33 cL , —— without, Hemorrhagy. 291 for fracture in general, by applying fplints of pafleboard, and an eighteen-tailed band- age (Q-351*)’ laying die ^eg on lts fide, with the knee a little bent. Fraftures of the bones of the tarfus and toes, are to be treated in the fame manner, as recommenc- ed for thole of the fingers (O. 350.). CONTUSIO * Syn. Contusion and Sprain. O. 355. How are Contujions and Sprains to be treated? ' t ■> 1 A. The fwelling of the part is to be ob- viated, by an antiphlogiflic regimen, par- ticularly by topical bleeding, by leeches. When the pain is exceffive, opiates are found to be of fervice. Aftringent folu- tions are applied fometimes to the part with advantage. ' o * Contufio, Sugar us, Sauvagcfms, Vogclius.2Q2 Lofs of Continuity in the Bones, &e, RUPTURA * «. ' • % r Ruptured Tendon. Q. 356. How is a Ruptured Tendon to he treated ? 0 A. By relaxing the mufcles of the part, as much as poffible, and bringing the rup- tured ends of the tendons as nearly into contaft as poffible, and endeavouring after- wards to keep them in that fituation, until an accretion of the ruptured ends take place. * Ruptura, Saiivagcjtus, Linnecus.■ 4 '<03 C «93 3 Gen. XXV. CUTANEUS. EXCORIATIO *; Syn. Excoriation of the Skin. O. 357, How is Excoriation of the Skin to be treated ? A. By removing the irritating caufe as much as poflible, and covering the part with Tome liniment of wax and oil. When the pain attending it is excellivej emollient poultices are advifeable. „ % RHAGASf. Syn. Chopped Nipple. O. 358. How are Chopped Hippies to be treated ? A. When the Nipples are much chopped, * Excoriatio, Sagp.rus» Excoriatura, Linnaus, Sawd* gefius. + RhagaSj Sauvagejius, VogdiuLinnceus, Sagarus. v 3 the294 ■£oft of Continuity. % the child fhould not be allowed to fuck them. An aftringent folution of port wine and water, is generally recommended to wafh them with frequently; after which they are to be covered by a fmall pledget of Goulards cerate, which fhould be, how- ever, cautioufly rubbed away again, before the child be allowed to fuck. Small cups . of glafs are alfo ufed, to prevent the clothes from rubbing upon the nipples during the cure. Their tops are perforated with a number of holes, to allow the milk to efcape as foon as it is fecreted. Gen. XXVI. ESCHARA * Eschar. X COMBUSTURAf. X, X Syn. Burning. O. 3^9- Afow are Burns to be treated ? . A. The mode of treatment in Burns muff * Efchara, SauvartSus. f Combuftura, Linnceus} Encauris, Verdins. Sagarus, Bumcardu . ; i Ambuftio, dependv 4 over -4-<33 Lofs of Continuity. ■ <iy5 « 'S depend upon the extent of the injury, and the occafional caufes. The pain is to be obviated as much as poflible3 by plunging t the patient into water of the fame tempe- rature with the body, or into brandy, aftringent folutions of oak bark, and fac- charurn faturni. Opiates are alfo fuceefs- fully ufed, to relieve the pain. As foon as vehicles are formed, the liquor is to be al- lowed to efcape, by a (mail puncture, to prevent the acceffion of the air as much as poffible; but thefe punclures are never to be made, until the inflammation has com- pletely fubfided. When there is a lofs of fubftance, as is often the cafe when the burn is occafioned by hot metallic bodies, a liniment of equal parts of linfeed oil and lime-water is found to give eafe. In fome cafes, the pain has been alfo relieved, by expofing the part for a fhort time to the aftion of the air. Gangrene is to be anxioufly guarded againft,- by all the re- medies recommended (O.y.) for the cure of inflammation. The cure of the wound, occafioned by burning, is always accele- rated by covering it with foft lint, fpread2gS Lofs of Continuity, over with faturnine cerate. When par- ticles of gunpowder happen to be pufhed into the cutis vera, they are to be picked out by a needle, and the fmall openings occafionecl by them, are to be covered with fimple ointment to exclude the air from ?hem. , , % SPHACELUS- Syn. Slough. - / O. 360. What is a Sphacelus ? A. It is a complete mortification of the fluids and folids of a part, proceeding from high degrees of inflammation, whereby they lofe their natural colour, and become black, foft, and of a putrid cadaverous fmell (O. 2. and. 11.). 0. 3S1. How is Sphacelus to be treated? $ A. The remedies already recommended for gangrene (Q. 11.) are equally applicable here. But when a Sphacelus extends to the bone, in any of the extremities, fo that the mufcular\ Lojs of Continuity. mul’cular parts all round it come to be completely deflroyed, amputation is ad- vifeable; but this is never to be attempted until a Sphacelus or Hough begins to lepa- rate, when there is a lira itput to the progrefs of the inflammation. * 0.362. How is Sphacelus of the Glcms Penis to be treated ? * p1 A. The difeafed parts are to be removed. A circular incifion is firft to be made through the {kin, which is then to be drawn bark by the aiTiftant. The parts are now to be removed by one ftroke of the knife. The bleeding arteries, which are feldom lefs than fix branches, are to be immediately fecured, A canula of filver is to be alio introduced into the urethra, and to be fecured by a proper bandage, which fhould be tightened fo as to comprefs a little the bleeding veffels. The tube is to be allow- ed to remain in the urethra, during the cure. This operation anfwers alfo when the glans is in a fcirrhous ftate. 3 ■ Gen.I 298 Lojs of Continuity. Gen. XXVII. NATURALIS. LAGOCHEILOS. Syn. Hare-Lip. O. 263. What is a Lagocheilos? A. It is a divifion of the upper lip, com- monly termed Hare-lip. Sometimes there are two fiffures, which, in fome meafure, prevent fucking or fpeaking, and is attend- ed with a want of power to retain the faliva. The divifion alfo, in fome cafes, is found r to extend through the bones of the palate. » O. 364. How is Hare-lip to ke cured ? A. By reducing the edges of the fifibre to the ftate of a fmiple incifed wound (O. 295.), by removing a portion of its edges, providing the lofs of fubftance be not fo great as to prevent them from coming afterwards into contaft. O. 365. How is the Operation for Hare* Up performed? A« After the patient is put into a proper pofture.r\ (OH 4- -<33 pofture, the furgeon is to divide the froenum connefling the lip and gums together. Then he is to lay hold of one fide of the fiffure by a pair of common crooked fciiTars, when he is to remove a fmall portion of its ed^es. Pie is then to make a fimilar cut on the other edge of the fiffure, fo that the piece cut out may refemble the letter V. As foon as* this is completed, the edges of the fiffure are to be.brought into contact, and kept in that date by the twifted future (X 298.}* If two fifibres' happen to take place at the fame time, the one is to be » cured before the other. Any tooth pro- jecting and becoming unfavourable for the healing of the fiffure. is to be removed. When the retraftion is considerable from a great lofs of fubftance, pieces of leather fpread over with fome adhefive fubftance, ’ are to be applied to the cheeks, furnifhed with a number of ligatures, which are to be tied between the pins. When the bones of the palate feparate, pieces of fponge have been recommended to be plunged into it. HYPOS- 1 / 1LoJs of Continuity« HYPOS PAD LEOS. Syn. Natural Division of thif Urethra. O. 366. What is an Hypofpadiczos ? A. It is a natural opening of the urethra* not at the extremity of the glans, but be* liind it, and below the frcenum, through which the urine palfes. O. 367* How is Hypofpadixos to be cured? . / A. By rendering the callous edges of the orifice, through which the urine paffes, raw, by removing a fmall portion of its edges. If the glans is imperforated, an opening is to be made from the point of the glans, by means of a trocar, drilled into the urethra. This perforation is to be carefully kept for feme time open, by a canula,until a cure is completed. * A Qrd.[ 3oi ] Ord. II. OBSTRUCTIO, Gsn. XXVIII. CONSTRICTURA, SUFFOCATIO. Syn. Suffocation, O. 368. What are the caffes inducing Suffocation ? # % A. Spafmodic contraction of the trachea induced by irritating fubflances, fuch as mechanical preffure from a piece of bone or flefh flicking in the top of the cefopha- gus; from polypi hanging in the pharynx (Q. 212.), or from enlargement of the amygdalae (O. 224.). Q. 369. How is Suffocation to be treated? A. When Suffocation arifes from irri- tating fubflances, producing fpafmodic contraction of the parts about the trachea or cefophagus, opiates are found to be at- tended with the belt effefts. When a .piece of bone is fixed in the top of the cefophagus, it is to be removed by a fmall forceps3 02 Oljlntclions, forceps invented for that purpofe. When it is owing to polypi, the method of treat- ment recommended for the removal of • « . polypi (O. 216.), is equally applicable here. When fuffocation is threatened from en- largement of the tonfils, the method of treatment recommended for their removal, is alfo neceffary (O. 224.). When, how- ever, fuffocation comes on of a fudden, fo as to threaten immediate death, and when it does not feem to yield to any remedy, the trachea arteria is to be opened, and refpi- ■ration is to be allowed to £0 on through the wound. This operation has been termed Bronchotomy. i ! / O. ojo. How is the operation of Bron- chotomy to he performed? A. The patient being properly fecured, a longitudinal incifion is to be made an inch and a half long, on the anterior part of the trachea, beginning at the inferior part of the theroid cartilage. The flerno hyoid and theroid mufcles are then to be fepa- rated. The theroid gland is to be avoided as much as pofiible, on account of its being copioufly' I I 1 \ • 1 * , ObflruEtions. 303 I ■ 4 ■ I I i| h copioufly fupplied with conhderahle blood- veflels. As foon as the trachea is laid bare, all the blood veflels are to be fecured in the manner already recommended (O. 238.). Then, with a common lancet, an incifion is | to be made between two rings of the trachea, of fuch a length as to admit of a double canula, one within the other, to be intro- duced, of a fuflficient fize for allowing ; refpiration to go on freely. When mucus feems to obftruQ; the canula it can be re- moved from time to time and cleared of it. Thefe canuhe are to be fecured by a pro- per bandage, to which they are fixed, and allowed to move according to the motions of the trachea. As foon as the caufes in- ducing fuffocation are removed, the wound is to be treated as already recommended (Q-3°9-)-Obfiruclions, I Var. a. suffocatio sub aqua. Syn. Drowning. Q. 371. How are per Jons apparently drowned to be treated ? 1 A. As loon as the body is taken out of the water, it fhould be covered by fome warm fubftance, as by the warm bath. Blowing air into the lungs is next to be attempted, fo as to imitate refpiration as much as poffible, by a conical tube put into the noftrils, applying at the fame time a piece of leather, or wet paper, over the mouth. Next the ftomach and inteltines are to be roufed into attion by warm li- quors, fuch as wine palfed into the ftomach by a tube in the form of a male catheter. Injeftions are generally ufed to roufe the motion of the inteftines. They may be thrown in by means of fyringes. Other ftimuli are alfo to be applied to the body. Externally friction is particularly recom- mended. AG LIEfOH -4.33 ObjiruEiions* 3 °5 >% AGLUTITIO. Syn. Difficulty of Swallowing. O. gy 2. From whence arifes the difficulty of Szc allowing ? I ^ A. From fpafmodic contractions of the cefophagus, arifing from irritating fubPiances flicking in the trachea, and fometimes oc- curring from no evident caufe. Difficulty of fwallowing may alfo arife from the fame mechanical caufes with thofe inducing fuffocation (Q. 368.). O.373. How is Aglutitio to be treated? ✓ * A. When Aglutitio arifes from fpafmodic affections of the cefophagus, the lame re- medies, recommended for fpafmodic af- fections of the trachea, are equally appli- cable here. But when the affeCtion arifes from (harp pointed bodies flicking in the cefophagus, a cure can only be expefted by a removal of them. When this cannot be done by the exertion of vomiting, and when it lies fo far back in the cefophagus, x that306 Objlruclions. that it cannot be extracted, fo that the patient is in danger of fuffering from want of nourifhment being thrown into the fyftem, an opening is to be made into the cefophagus. This operation has been termed CEfophagotomy. O. 374. How is the operation for Gtjo- phagotomy performed ? A. This operation can never be attempt- ed, but in cafes of the utmoft danger, as it is attended with a great deal of hazard, from the deepnefs of the cefophagus, from its being furrounded with a confiderable number of great blood vclfels. It is exe- cuted by making an incifion, as recom- mended for bronchotomy (Q. 370.), until the trachea is brought in view; an alfiftant is then to pull it gradually afide, by means of a hook, while another alfiftant, with a hook, pulls the mufcles on the oppofite fide. If any confiderable vefiel fprings, it is immediately to be fecured. The oefo- phagus is then to be opened, and whatever fubftance is found fixed in the palTage, is to be removed. The after treatment of theObJlruElions. 3°7 the wound requires the greateft attention. The patient ftiould live for fome time on fluid food, and by nourilhing injeftions of broth by the anus. The head is to be kept in a Heady pofition during the cure, DYSECCEA* * * §. t Syn. Deafness, Q- 375- What is a Dyfeccea ? A. It is a complete deafnefs, or a total want of hearing, occafioned by ob{frac- tion of the Euftachian tubes t, from pref- fure of tumours J, fuch as polypi §, or enlargement of the amygdala; ||. Extrane- ous bodies fixed in the meatus auditorius externus, particularly polypi, preternatural fecretions of wax, a fmall fkin covering the * Dyfeccea, Sagarus, Linn at us, Sauv&gefius, Vogelius. + Dyfeccea a tuba obftrufta, Morgagnius. Cophofis a tuba, Haller. J Dyficoca a tumore palati tubas obflruenti3 Tullpus, § A polypo tubae, V&lfalva* (1 Dyficcea ab angina tubis obflru£lis3 Botrhave* Dyfi- coea a Catarrh o3 Haller, X 2 meatus3°8 Objl ructions. meatus externus, and mal-conformation of the external ear, are alfo found to be caufes of deafnefs. \ 1 ’ 4 . Q. .376. How is Deafnefs to be treated? A. When the affection arifes from the preffure of tumours upon the Euftachian* tube, they are to be removed, as recom- mended (Q. 219.), by ligature. When deafnefs arifes from extraneous bodies be- ing pufhed into the meatus, if they hap- pen to be of a round nature, they may be turned out by a probe, after dropping fome oil into the ear, which effectually removes infects fhould they happen to creep into it. When any fubftance is introduced, that fwells by moifture, as a pea, they are to be broken by means of a fmall forceps, and extracted piece-meal. Excrefcences of the meatus auditorius are to be removed, as already recommended for polypi (Q. 210.) in the ear. When deainefs is occa- fioned by extraordinary fecretions of wax4, acquiring a folid confiftence, the wax is to be foftened, and wafhed out by injections of warm water. When deafnefs ariies from a thinObjlrunions, ' 309 a thin membrane covering the external meatus it is eafily divided. When deaf- nefs arifes from a mal-conformation of the external ear, different inftruments are re- commended to colled found. ISCHURIA* * * § " . « » - r * *» Stoppace of Urine. O. 377. What is Ifchuria ? / A. It is a fyppreffion of urine, com- plete or partial, attended either with or without pain, and arifing from a variety of caufes. O. 378. What are the Caufes of Ifchuria ? A. Ifchuria may arife from inflamma- tion of the neck of the blader, produced by the irritation of calculi t, from fpafmodic ftridure of the proftrate gland, and neck of the bladder §; from fchirrofities of the ' * Ifchuria, Sauvagefius, Sagarus, Linnams, Vogclius, Cul• lenus. + Ifchuria Cyftqlithica, Tulpius. § Ifchuria Cyftofpaflica, Mercatorius• x 3 proftrate31 o ObJlruElions. proflrate gland; from obflruCtions of the urethra ; from caruncles * * * § ; from adhefions of the fides of the urethra, by inflamma- tion, or cicatrices of old fores; from the mechanical preffure of the uterus, in the laft months of pregnancy +, from tumours in the perineum J vagina, as polypi, pro- lapfed uterus, or enlargement of the corpus* fpongiofum of the penis itfelf, prefling the fides of the urethra together Ifchuria may alfo arife from a lofs of tone in the body of the bladder, fo as to render it in- capable of contra&mg itfelf ||, and from ftones impafted in the urethra T. O. 379. How is SuppreJffion of Urine to be treated? j * A. When the affe&ion arifes from an * Ifchuria Carunculofa, Lujxton. * + Ifchuria Urethritica, Hildanus, Ifchura a Gravido, Nordman. + Ifchuria Perineali's, Galenus. § ifchuriaa Tumoribus diflenta, Gaubius• || Ifchuria cyftoplegica, Linnczus. f Ifchuria Urethrolithica, Schneid. inflammatoryObjt ruffiions. 311 ' - \ / inflammatory (late of the neck of the bladder, *• • the antiphlogifl ic regimen becomes neceflary. Blood is to difeharged freely. Opiates and injections of warm water are to be thrown up into the retium, and the patient is to be plunged afterwards into the warm bath; particularly when the pain from the inflam- mation is fo confiderable, as to produce fpafmodic conftriction of the neck of the bladder. When the affeflion arifes from feirrhofities of the proftrate gland, the me- thods already recommended (O. 200.), can only be attempted. When fupprellion of urine arifes from infiammationof the urethra, an attempt fhould be made either to difeufs it immediately or bring it into a Rate of fuppuration, and the pus difeharged as foon as formed. Bougies fhould at the fame time be ufed which ati entirely mechanically. After they are rubbed over with fome oil, they are to be introduced into the urethra to prevent adhelions of it from taking place, and removing the itrifture previoufly occalioned by the inflammation. They are to be introduced into the urethra, until a refiftance is met with. When caruncTs are x 4 formed, 13*2 ObJlruEtions* formed, they are alfo of fervice. When an introduction of them cannot be effeded to a fufficient length, one with a fmaller point is to be ufed, a day, at lead, after the in- troduction of the firft has failed. They are not to be allowed to remain long at firft, particularly when they are attended with much pain. They are to be kept in the urethra by means of a tape, furround- ing the body, to prevent their flipping into the bladder. When ifchuria arifes from the preflure of the uterus, in the latter flages of pregnancy, change of pofture may have fome effeCf. When from polypi it is to be treated as recommended (Q. 218.) already for polypi of the uterus ; and when from prolapfus of the uterus, it is to be treated (O. 154.) by reducing it. When from a want of tone in the body of the bladder itfelf, the urine is to be removed from time to time by the catheter, until fuch remedies are applied as will recover the tone of the fyftem, Q- 380.I (OH • i\.. <QQ 0 OhJiruUions. 3 \ 3 r O. 380. A the Unne extracted by the Catheter ? A. The patient is to be laid in a proper pofture, with the thighs and Ihoulders a little elevated, fo as to relax the mufcles of the abdomen. The furgeon is to (land on the left fide of the patient, with a catheter of a proper fize and curvature, brought to the temperature of heat of the human body and befmeared all over with bland oil. He then lays hold of the penis with his left hand, while, with his right he intro- duces the catheter, with its concave fide towards the abdomen. He is now with his left hand to draw the penis gently forward on the catheter, until it eafily paffes into the bladder. If any difficulty occurs about the proflrate gland, the finger • has been advifed to be introduced into the anus, fo as to elevate the point of the catheter; the handle oftheinftrument being, however, depreffed, anfwers better. As foon as the catheter has got within the bladder, the urine is to be allowed to run off.314 ObJlruEtions. off, and then the inflrument is to be re- moved, « - * "s ■ < Q.381. When from fever al circumflances the introduction of the Catheter cannot be effected, how is the Cafe to be treated ? A. When alarming fymptoms are produced from retention of the urine alone, the introduction of the catheter failing, an opening is to be made into the bladder. It may be pun&ured above tile offa pubis, when the bladder is in a very difrended irate. A trocar of about an inch and a half long, may be at once introduced, through the integuments, about one inch and a half above the offa pubis, into the body of the bladder. The Rillete beinsc removed, the urine is allowed to flow freely through the canula, which is‘to be fecured to the body, by means of a ban- dage. But there are objections to this me- thod, that the bladder is fufpended for a long time on the canula, whereby its tone is deffroyed, and that if it happens to flip off the canula, the operation muff be re-ObJlruBions. 315 peated, and the urine mud be effufed in the furrounding cellular fubftance. The blad- der has alfo been recommended to be punftured from the perineum, by making an incifion one inch and a half long;, and at fome little diftance from the rapha perinei. The furgeon is then to introduce a trocar into the bladder, a little diftant from the proftrate gland, the point of the inftrument is then to be direfted upwards, to avoid wounding the vafa deferentia or the vehicular femiaales. Asfoon as the urine begins to flow through a grove formed in the fiillete, the ftillete is to be withdrawn and the canula allowed to remain; but it is to be removed from time to time to prevent any concretions from forming on the end of it. The blad- der has been recommended to be punftured from the reflum, but this can, in no cafe, be with propriety attempted. The blad- der of the female has been recommended to be punftured from the vagina, where the fluftuation of the bladder caji be eafilv felt by the finger. Wounds of the vagina do not heal readily. Therefore the trocar 1 mouldgi5 O'bf ructions, fhould be introduced on the outfide of the nymphe, parallel to the urethra. * O. 382. What are the, Caufes tending to the formation of Calculi in the Bladder of Urine? * - • A. Variety of caufes have been affigned, fuch as a decomposition of a iuperabundant quantity of earthy matter, from the blood, by means of a fedentary life. This theory is abundantly hypothetical, for it has not yet been fufficiently proved, that a fuper- abundant quantity of earthy matter exifts at one time, more than at another, nor that a decompofition of it takes place by means of a fedentary life, became the mold aftive, laborious, and induftrious are often found to be affefled with calculi. Certain arti- cles of diet, containing a greater quantity of earthy matter than others, has been given as a caufe of calculi. This theory is equally fuperficial, becaufe it cannot be proved that the lafteals take up this earthy matter in greater quantities than ufual, and allowing them to do fo, it is highly impro- bable, that it can pafs in a compofed (late from \ObJlruElions. 3x7 % , N from the blood, through the fine fecreting veflels of the kidney. Several otlier theories ' have been advanced, equally frivolous. The moft probable caufe yet difcovered, feems to be a certain ftate or change of the veffels of the kidney, which form the urine, poffeffing properties different from any yet difcovered in the blood, before it has pafied through the kidneys. That a peculiar' action of the kidney is capable of forming urine, predifpofed to the formation of calculi, is evident from the faccharum urini formed in cafes of diabetes. O. 383. What are the diagnqftic fymp- toms of Calculus in the Bladder of Urine? A. Upon the patient’s ufing any exer- cife, particularly riding on horfeback, a dull uneafy fenfation is felt about the neck of the bladder, with a correfponding fenfation in the glans penis, which by degrees be- come more confiderable, and more frequent, efpecially on voiding the urine, to which the patient has frequently a flrong defire, but cannot void it, except in finall quan- tities. Sometimes it comes only by drops, 1 while318 Objlrutlions. while at other times it comes in a full dream but is fuddenly flopped. The pa- tient, upon this occurring, finds nothing relieves him fo much as change of poflure. The urine is fometimes limpid, but for the mod part a quantity of mucus is difcharged along with it. Sometimes it is tinged with blood, efpecially after riding on horfeback, or after any other violent exertion. When, at the fame time, fmall pieces of done are often difcharged along with the urine. The dronged mark of calculus is difcovered, however, by an operation termed Sound- ing. It is executed, by introducing an in- drument of the harded materials, finely poliihed, in the fame manner as recom- mended for introduction of the catheter (Q.380.). As foon as this indrument enters the bladder, if it happens to touch the done, a tremulous motion is communicated to the fingers of the operator. A great deal of care is requifite here, becaufe a few particles of fand will occafion a tremulous noife. When the done is not difcovered by the found, the indrument is to be turned in various directions, and the furgeon is to introduce(OH • 4.^3 • 1 , QbJlruEtions. , 319 1 introduce Ins finger intothe anus, andtoraife the undermoft part of the bladder againfl the found. The body is always to be turned in various directions, fo that a ftone may be difcovered eatily in this manner, providing it is not contained in a cyft. After the furgeon has explored for it for fome time, and has, however, failed to dif- cover it, the inftrument is to be withdrawn, and a fecond attempt is to be made next day. Q- 384- How is the Stone to be removed from the Bladder ? A. Various lithontriptics have been re- commended, with a view to diffolve the ftone within the bladder. Such as' lime water, cauftic alkali, &c. Though thefe have conhderable effe£i in diffolving the ftone out of the body, yet they undergo the greateft change in the courfe of the cir- culation. To obviate this, it has been re- commended to throw fubftances into the bladder by the urethra. But this is not attended with any manifeft cffetf, and is found to injure the bladder materially, particularly320 ObJlruElions. Q 385• ' V / particularly the fphin&er at the neck of the bladder. The only proper method of removing Hones out of the bladder, is by means of a chirurgical operation. Several methods have been recommended for exe- cuting this; two of which only deferve at- tention. The one is excited by cutting over the offa pubis into the body of the bladder, from whence it has been called the High Operation for Lithotomy, and the other is executed by cutting below the * pubis, befide the urethra in the perineum, from which it has been termed the Lateral Operation for Lithotomy. Both of them have been ufed for a confiderable time, and experience alone has at laft decided in favour of the latter. It is faid, that the urine, by the high method of operating, palfed from the wound in the bladder into the cellular fubftance, among the mufcles and integuments of the abdomen, where it formed finufes, and that the bowels pro- trude through the external wound, which Q is difficult of healing from the urine ren- o dering it callous.(OH • 4. .53 # Objlruclions. 321 O. 385. //Ira is the High Operation for Lithotomy performed ? A. In performing this operation, the bladder mud be always in a diftended Hate, fo as to make it rife above the ofla pubis. The patient is therefore to drink plentifully of mild and diluent liquors, previous to the operation, and to retain his urine as much as poflible. He is then to be laid in a hori- zontal pofture, having the head a little lower than the pelvis. The furgeon is now to make an incifion on one fide of the linea alba, four inches long, and down to the fymphyfis pubis. Both the pyramidales mufcles are then to be feparated; then the bladder is to be cautioufly pun&ured, and an opening made into it large enough to admit of the finger being introduced, which a£ts now as a directory for the knife to enlarge the opening, fo as to admit of the calculi being extratted, which may be eafily laid hold of, either by the finger, or by a forceps invented for that purpofe. The integuments are to be immediately brought into contact, upon the calculi being re- y moved.322 ObjlrucUons, moved, and are then to be retained by the twifted future (O. 298.). .A , Q- 385- How is the Lateral Operation for Lithotomy to be executed? A. After introducing a found, or Haft’ with a groove, in the fame manner, and with the fame precautions, as recommend- ed for the introduction of the catheter (O. 380.), the thighs of the patient are to be fecured by affiftants. The furgeon is then to place himfeif between the pa- tient and the window. He is next, with one ftroke of the knife, to make an in- cifion at leaft four inches long, running in the direction between the crus penis and bulb of the urethra; the tranfverfales peri- nei, and levator ani middles being divided, the furgeon is to fearch for the groove ot the fluff, which he foon difeovers, through the membranous part of the urethra. He is then to cut with a common fcalpel, upon the groove of the flaff, the membranous part of the urethra, fo as to admit the beak of an inftrument, termed a gorget, to be lodged in it. The furgeon is now to take(OH ■ 4.,-33 y 2 dreffins[s Y 2 /, I ObjlruRions. 393 take the handle of the ftaff from the affiflant, and raifing it a little with his left hand, while, with his right, he puflies for- ward the gorget, through the proPiate gland, into the bladder. The flaff is then to be immediately removed. The flone is now to be laid hold of, if poffible, when the finger is to be introduced, to difcover if it is properly fixed in the forceps. The furgeon then gradually extrafts it, moving the forceps in the direflion of the wound. When the flone happens to be fo large, that it cannot be extradled by the incifion, nor even through the bones of the pelvis, it is to be broken, when the greatefl attention is neceffary, in order to remove all the frag- ments, which ought to be wafhed out by tepid water and milk, injetted through the wound. After fecuring ali the veffels, the patient is to be laid in a proper poflure, with the body a little raffed above the pelvis, to prevent any accumulation of blood from taking place in the body of the bladder, from a rupture of an artery. A piece of foft charpee is to be inferted between the lips of the wound, and the &324 Objl ruElions. dreflings are to be removed often. Ardent fpirits may be rubbed upon the parts, to prevent excoriation from taking place. The patient generally upon being laid in bed, and an opiate given him, falls afleep. But in the courfe of a few hours, pain and tcnfion of the abdomen is felt, which o;ra-* dually increafmg, is attended, at laft, with the fymptoms of pyrexia. In fuch cafes, warm fomentations are to be applied to the region of the abdomen, and opiate injec- tions are to be given by the anus, as the affe6iion feems to be of a fpafmodic nature. Q- 387- What Prognofis can be given of the Lateral Operations of Lithotomy ? A. A confiderable degree of danger al- ways attends the operation. Men in their full vigour of life are in greater danger from it, than either young children, or old men whofe conllitutions are not broken. When ulceration has taken place in the body of the bladder itfelf, the chance of fuccefs is lefs. The danger is always in- creafed by the inflammatory fymptoms fucceeding(OH • I4 .QQ Q- 389- Y 3 ObflruElions. 325 fucceeding the operation (^. 38S.); parti- cularly when they proceed without any intermifiion, notwithftanding every attempt to prevent them; and when the wound looks lloughy (O. 360.) the danger is very confiderable. The time in which a com- plete cicatrix is formed, varies in different perfons. The age and habit of body of die patient muff in a great meafure deter- mine this. Sometimes a complete cicatrix is formed in the courfe of a month, while, at other times, it takes three months before it occurs. Q. 388. How is the Operation for Litho- tomy performed on the Female ? \ A. A grooved ftaff, or found, is to be introduced into the urethra, and pufhed as far forward as the bladder. The beak of the gorget is to be introduced into the groove of the ftaff, when it is to be carried forward into the bladder, dividing the urethra its whole courfe. The other fteps of the operation are exaftly fimilar to that recommended for the male.f I 326 ObjlruElions. r ^ , « Q. 389. When a Stone is impacted in the Pelvis of the Kidney, ought an Operation to be attempted? A. As the prefence of ftone in the kid- neys cannot he accurately afcertained, the fymptoms alone not being fufficient to give an effential aiagnofis, the kidney alfo- lying fo deep and covered with a con- fiderable quantity of mufcle, an operation fhould feldom or never be attempted. For although all thefe objections were re- moved, the kidney is fo made up of con- fiderable blood veffels, fo as to render an incifion into it impracticable. When the kidney, however, is in a dropfical Rate, and very much enlarged, there may remain fome probability of fuccefs from an ope- ration. But the danger is greater than any advantage that can be procured from it. O. 390. How are Stones imp a fled in the Urethra to be removed? A. Stones paflTmg off by the urine may flop in the urethra, and create a great deal^OH • 4 .(33 Obftruclions. 327 * of pain; particularly when they are of an angular fhape. Sometimes they burft the urethra and occafion a difcharge of urine into the cellular fubfiance. Several methods have been recommended for the removal of calculi; fuch as pufhing them forward with the fingers; but it is plain, that every effort of this kind is attended with excruciating pain, and mud aggravate the complaint by producing a fpaftic con- ftri&ion about the ftone. After every trial of this kind has failed and that neither di- luents, opiates, injections of bland oil, nor any other antifpafmodics have effeft, an incifion is to be made diretlly over the ftone, which is to be then turned out, the Ikin being drawn paft its natural fituation, previous to the incifion, being allowed to return again to its natural ftate, covers the wound in the urethra, where fometimes a cure is obtained by the firft intention.Objlrudions. 32§ \ Gen. XXIX. VERSICOLOR. I Cataracts *. Q- 391- What is a Catarad ? i A. It is an opacity of the cryftalline lens, or its capfule, fo as to prevent the rays of light from falling upon the retina arifmg from obftrutiion of the veffels of the lens, or from external violence. 0.392. What are the Diagnoflic Symp- toms of Catarad? A. The fight at firft feems weaker than ufual; the patient imagines fome dull has got into his eyes. This diminution of fight gradually advances, until at laft the patient can fcarcely diftinguifh different colours. A total blindnefs then enfues. On infpefting the lens, it is found to be of a dufky colour, or brown fimilar to amber. Sometimes a fmall white fpot is obferved; * Cataracta, Ciillmus, Vogelius, Linnaeus. Suffufio, Platner. Glaucoma, Sharp, Plenck. Glaucofi , Hippocrates. Hypo- chyris, Galenas. * at(OH • 4.^ 4 ObJlruElions. 329 at other times it is entirely white, and fome- times of a pearl colour. The difeafe fome- times comes on rapidly, while at other times, its progrefs is flow and gradual. ' During the whole courfe of the difeafe, the pupils contraft on the impreffion of light, and little pain occurs from the difeafe. It is eafily diftinguifhed from the gutta ferena, from the pupils in that difeafe being never affefted with light, and from no opacity being obferved, through the pupil, into the lens. It is eafily diftinguifhed from hypo- pyon and ftaphyloma, from no pain occurr- ing, as is the cafe in the beginning of thefe affections. It is not eafy, however, to de- termine, whether the opacity fubfifts in the capfule, or in the lens. Q- 393■ How is the CataraEl to be cured ? A. Mercurial preparations have been in fome cafes attended with the belt effects, in removing the *opacity, when given in- ternally. But after they have been ufed for fome time, and no fuccefs enfues, the cure has been attempted by chirurgical opera- tion. Two methods for executing this have been *Objlruclions, 33° \ been equally ftrongly recommended. The firtt of thefe is to remove the lens from its capfule, fo as to allow the rays of light to fall upon the retina, and then to lodge it in the bottom of the vitreous humour, where it is fuppofed to diffolve in courfe of time. This method of operating has i o been termed couching'. The fecond method is to extraft the lens from its capfule, through the pupil, by an incifion made into the cornea. This operation has been term- ed extraction of the cataradi. O. 3Q4. At what time can the Operation for Coucfling, or Extraction, be with pro- priety attempted? A. When the opacity is fo confiderable, as to prevent the patient from following his ordinary occupation. An operation can never with propriety be attempted, when one eye is only affetted. But, when the cafe is otherwife, the operation may at any time be attempted, providing the eye in other refpedis is found at its bottom, the^OH . n_ .33 Obfructions. 331 the pupil has power of contraction and dilatation, and the cornea is tranlparent. Q. 395. How is the Operation for Couch- ing of the CataraEl executed ? f A. The patient being properly lea ted with his face towards the window, the fur- S - - geon is to fit before him; he is to be pro- vided with proper affiftants; one for fup- porting the head and the other for fecuring the arms. The eye is now to be fixed, by a proper fpeculum, in fuch a manner, as to allow the whole of the tranfparent cornea, and one eighth of the tunica fcle- rotica, to protrude through it. The arm of the furgeon being now properly fup- ported on a table placed befide him, he is then to take the couching needle into his right hand, when the operation is performed on the left eye, in the fame manner as he does a writing pen. He is then to bear the little finger and ring finger on the cheek of the patient, and to carry the point of the inflrument along the external canthus of the eye, into the fclerotic coat, which he is332 Obstructions. is to punfture one tenth of an inch behind the iris; and now he plunges the inftru- rnent into the capfule of the lens, which he muft endeavour to difengage, fo as to carry the lens, on the point of the inftrument, into the bottom of the vitreous humour. As foon as this is effected, and the cataract is feen to difappear through the pupil, the inftrument is to be immediately removed, and the eye (hut. The patient is to be then laid in bed, in a dark chamber, and a ftrift antiphlogiftic regimen enjoyned, to obviate the inflammation that generally fucceeds. In four or five days, the fuccefs of the operation may be known. Some- times the patient grows gradually better after the operation, while in others imme- diate fuccefs is obtained. If the lens (till V rifes from the bottom of the vitreous hu- mour into its natural fituation, it is to be depreffecl a fecond time, after the inflam- mation induced by the firft attempt has fubfided. / . Q- 396.fOH • 4 .<33 Obstructions. 333 \ \ * r \ O. 396. How is the operation for ex- traction of the Cataract performed? A. Both furgeon and patient being feat- ed, the eye properly fecured by a fpeculum, and the furgeon laying hold of the knife, as recommended (Q. 395.) lor couching, he is to introduce the point of it, which ought to be of a conical form, into the lucid cornea, one fixteenth part of an inch dif- tant from the iris, when he is to carry it * acrofs the pupil into the oppofite fide of the eye, through which he is to pufh it nearly one fourth part of an inch. The preffure from the fpeculum is then to be leffened, to prevent the aqueous humour from being entirely dilfufed. A femilunar cut is now to be made in the fuperior part of the cornea, the flap of which is to be raifed by a blunt probe, which is then to be cautioufly paffed through the pupil, fo as to fcratcli a hole in the capfule of the lens, to admit of the lens efcaping. A moderate -degree of preffure is now necef- fary with the fpeculum, fo as to make the lens pafs through the pupil. When the lens334 Objlruciions, / • I lens flops in the anterior chamber of the eye* enlarging the opening in the cornea is neceflary, or a fcoop may be ufed for its removal. When the opacity is fituated in the capfule, a removal of it, without difehargdn^ the vitreous humour becomes impoflible. The after treatment of the operation for extra&ion of the lens, is exaftly the fame as recommended for couching (0.395.). \ * * » O. 3gy. ‘ Whether Jhould the operation of Couching or Extraction, have the preference? A. The objections to the operation for couching, are, that it always fails, when the lens is found in a dilfolved ftate; that, by allowing the matter of the catara6l to mix with the vitreous humour, a permanent blindnefs is the confequence. The opera- tion for couching alfo fails, from the cataraft arifing again into its natural flot- ation. When the opacity is in the capfule, couching will not remove it. The objecr tions againft the operation for extraftion, are, that the vitreous humour is apt to efcapeObflruElions. 3 35 efcape along with the lens. The cicatrix from the wound in the cornea renders it fo opaque, as to prevent the rays of light to pafs through it. The lens is faid to be often fo very large, as materially to injure the iris in palling through the pupil. The operation for extraftion fliould, however, be preferred before the other; becaufe the one is a radical cure, while the other is only a palliative. When the operation of . extraction is properly performed, the vitreous humour need never efcape; be- fides, the chance of the lens diffolving in the vitreous humour, is very improbable. 1 x . V * LEUCOMA. " . # Syn. Albugo Nubicula. \ Q-398* What is a Leucoma ? I . / A. It is a fpeck or film, formed on the tranfparent cornea, produced by inflam- mation,. occafioning an eiTufion between the lamella; of the cornea, and rendering: it $ % a s. liL336 ObJlruElions. it fo opaque, as to prevent the rays of light from falling upon the retina. Q. ggg. How are Specks or Films of the Eyes to be removed ? A. The remedies recommended for in- flammation (O. 7.) are alfo proper in in- flammation of the eyes. When any film or fpeck is elevated above the furface of the cornea, efcharotics or the knife are generally recommended; but thefe are improper, when an effufion takes place be- twixt the lamellae of the cornea. In fuch cafes, therefore, remedies tending to pro- mote abforption moil powerfully, fuch as mercury, are to be ufed. Sometimes it is impoffible to confine efcharotics to the part affected. In fuch cafes the powder ufed as an efcharotic is to be inferted with- in the eye-lids; by the motion of the eve- ball it can be fpread over the whole fur- face of the eye, confequently to the part affected.Gen. XXX. IMPERFORATUS. IMPERFORATUS ANUS. Syn. Imperforated Anus. Q. 400. Hozo is Imperforated Anus to be treated? A. An mcifion is to be cautioufiy made in the natural direction of the anus, for one or two inches. If no meconium ap- pear, a trocar is to be cautioufiy drilled forward into the direflion of the refclum. If the futgeon is fo fortunate as to pene- trate into the re flu m, meconium is gene- rally difcharged* Sometimes the intefti- num reflum terminates in the bladder : even in fuch a cafe the operation is to be at- . tempted. The greateft caution is nec'ef- fary to keep the opening, made into the reffum, open by proper tents of lint, to prevent its fides from growing together. IMPER- ( 1Objtruciions. 338 IMPERFORATUS MEATUS AUDI- TORIUS. > V % Imperforated Ear. \ O. 401. How is Imperforated Meatus Auditor ms to be treated? A. A thin membrane only covers the paffage into the ear. It is eafily divided by a fimple incifion. The accretion of its Tides may be obviated by doffils of lint inferted between the edges of the wound, until it is rendered callous. CARENS ORIS. « * Imperforated Mouth. 4 « Q. 402. How is Imperforated Mouth to be treated? A. In the fame manner, and with the fame precaution, as recommended for an imperforated meatus auditorius (O. 401.). NASUS/ * • ObJlruElions. 339 NASUS IMPERFORATUS. * . ^ • j. * f « 4 j ■ » ’ t 1 • Imperforated Nostril. % O. 403. How are Imperforated Nojtrils to be treated ? \ A. In the fame manner, and with the fame precaution, as recommended for im- perforated meatus auditorius (Q. 401.)* 9 HYMEN IMPERFORATUM. Imperforated Hymen. ' . , Q. 404. How is Imperforated Hymen to be treated ? A. No difference of treatment is here neceffary from that recommended for im- perforated meatus auditorius (Q. 401.). z 2 DENTITIO.310 ObJlruElions. v r , DENTITIO. • ■ 4 *Sy?z. Teething. Q- 4°5- What are the diagnojlic fymp- fora.* of Teething ? A. The gums are inflamed, and a degree of pyrexia occurs. Sometimes convulfive affeftions take place. • The difcharge of faliva is increafed in fome cafes; while in others, it is diminilhed. Troublefome diarrhoea often takes place, while at other times extreme degrees of coftivenefs occur. i i Q. 4oS„ Hcrju is Dentition to be relieved ? * . * 1 * ' t A. After the warm bath and opiates have been perfifled in for fome time, to no purpofe, and that the pain is confiderable, from the tearing of the gum by the tooth, an incifion is to be made in a crucial form over the tooth.n fOH ■ Ll.,93 ObftruElions. 34* Gen. XXXI. CONCRETIO. . ** V >N ANCYLOBLEPHARON * ' ' - N \ • ' S > ' , Syn. Adhesion of the Eye-lids. I O. 407. How is Adhejion of the Eye-lids to be treated? A. Adhefion of the eye-lids in confe- quence of inflammation, may be feparated by pulling them afunder by the fingers, if they- adhere {lightly. But when a firm adhefion has taken place, they are to be divided cautioufly by the knife, and after- terwards to be kept from adhering together by dreflings infinuated between the lips of the wound until it is rendered callous,. SYNIZESISf. 1 tld * • - Syn. Obstruction of ti-ie Pupil by Concretion. O. 408. How is Synizefs to be treated? A. Excifion is to be made cautiouflyAo * Ancyloblepharon, Vagtlius. + Synizefis, Vogdius. - , z 3 as342 Obf ructions. as to render the uvea pervious to the rays of light. This is-to be executed by the point of a couching needle, introduced in the fame manner and with the fame pre- caution as recommended for couching;. ADHESIO AB URETHRITICA. ^ \ Syn. Adhesions of the Urrethra • from Inflammation. Q. 40g. Hozo are Adhejions of the Urethra to be treated ? A. The method of treatment is exaftly the fame as recommended for ifchuria. See Q- 379- % / ANCYLOGLOSSUM *. O. 410. What is :Ancyloglojffum, and how is it to be treated? A. It is a concretion of the tongue to the parts below, preventing fpeaking, fucking, a^fwallowing ; and fometimes is the con- * AncylogloITum, Vogdius, fequenceOrb. z 4 c ObJtruUions. 343 fequence of inflammation. The afleclion is removed by dividing the frenum of the tongue cautioufly. by a linall pair of fcilfars guarded at the point by a flit piece of lilver. Syn. Concretion of the Fingers; O.411. H010 is Webbing to be cured ? A. By fimple incifion and keeping the parts at a diftance from one another, until a cure is completed. DACTYL ION *. Webbing.( 344 ) »■ Ord. III. DISTORTIO. 4 ' U Gen. XXXII. MUSCULOSA. Q. 412. How is Dijlortion from con* tr acted Mi fetes to be treated ? \ \ , ,A. A cure can be only expefted from gradual extenfion, which (hould be executed by proper inftruments, applying emollients at the fame time to the part, particularly animal fat, &c. • > CAPUT OBSTIPUM* Syn. Wry Neck. O. 413. How is Wry Neck to be treated? V A. When the Wry Neck is owing to a contraction of the maftoid mufcle, dividing the mufcle by gentle ftrokes is faid to dfect a cure. The fame method may be alfo * Caput Obltipum, Vogelius. Obflipitas, Sagarus, Sau- vagejius. ' ufed,> 4 Distortion* 345 * v ufed, when the fldn is contracted about the * . * * 1 neck by burning, and the head is to be kept in a proper pofture during the cure, until new granulations form, and fill up the {pace between tho divided ends of the niufcle. When the wry neck is occafioned by a mal- conformation of the bones of the neck, a cure becomes impoiTible. STRABISMUS. • 1 \ Syn. Squinting. O. 414. IIoio is Squinting to be treated ? A. When fquinting is occafioned by a contraction of fome of the oblique mufcles of the eye, particularly the inferior, it may in fome meafure be obviated by dividing the contracted mufcle. Gen. XXXIII. OSSIFICA. VACILLATION O. 415. What is a Vacillatio? A. It is a derangement of the teeth, * Labarium, Linnczus* 1 occafioned3#- Dijlortion. occafioned by a want of room in the jaw- bone for allowing the whole of them to appear in a circle, generally occurring be- fore the firft fet have entirely difappeared. > . * - • Q. 416. How are Derangements of the Teeth to be treated ? A. The Teeth that ought to have been filed, are to be pulled out, in order to make room for the fecond fet : and when the fe- cond fet are fo large as not to find room in the jaw-bone, they are to be pulled out alfo, fo as to make room for the reft to come in a circle. When the teeth happen to be de- ranged by accidents, a fmall plate of filver, perforated with a number of fmall holes, is to be placed on four of the oppofite teeth : a piece of wire doubled, is to be paffed through the holes, and the doubling of it is to be thrown over the tooth intend- ed to be drawn into the circle. Both ends * " . % of the circle are, then, to be pulled tightly through the holes, and fecured by a pair of pliers. When diftortions of the teeth are occafioned by their being loofe, they are to belOH • 4.<33 ' Dijlortion. 347 •» be fixed by means of a ligature to the neigh- bouring found teeth. When they are loofe from old age little can be done to fix them. Tartarous incruftations of the teeth may alfo occafion a derangement of them. Acids, in fuch cafes, have been recommend- ed to diffolve fuch concretions, but they feem to injure the teeth materially. The furgeon, therefore, in fuch cafes, is to prefs, with the thumb wrapped in a piece of linen, upon the tooth intended to be cleaned of fuch tartarous concretions ; and then he is cautioufly to fcrape the incruftation off; avoiding, at the fame time, the root of the tooth, as much as poffible. All the broken fragments of the incruftation are to be cau- tioufly removed, by a fponge, to prevent irritating the gums. LORDOSIS *. Syn. Club Foot. \ O. 417. What is Lor dojis ? A. When the bones of the leg are * Lordofis, Vogelius, Sauvagefius, Linn am sy Sagarus. bended* 348 Diflortion. bended in any dire&ion, it has been com- monly termed Lardoji-s. When they hap- pen, however, to be bended outwards, the difeafe has been termed Valgus : and when O 3 they are bended inwards, it has got the de- nomination of Varus. All thefe chiefly arife from original malconforrnation ; fuch as the accidental pofition of the patient before birth. They may arife alfo from rickets. O. 418. How is Lordofis to be treated ? A. By ufing moderate preffure, on the convex fide of the bones, fo as to bring them at kill into their natural filiation. GIBBOSITAS*. 4 • Syn. Hump Back. O. 41 g. What are the Caufes of Dijtor- iion of the Spine ? A. It is frequently the confequence of rickets, but may be alfo occafioned by a lateral attitude, too long continued, imped- ing the growth, and altering the fnape * Gibbofitas, Sauvagefius, Sagaras. ofDiftortion. 349 of the vertebrae, by which means the bow- els are often injured, and degrees of para- Ivfis produced. I O. 420. How is a Cure of Hump Back to be treated ? A. By endeavouring, as much as pof- fible, to avoid that pofture of the body, occasioning the diftortion, and by diminifti- mg the weight of the parts above the {pine, by ufe of the machinery : fuch as that of Jones5 See. DISTORTIO OS SIUM PELVIS. Distortion of the Bones of the Pelvis. Q. 421. When the Diftortion cf the Bones of the Pelvis is jo conjiderable as to render the Tranfmijfion of a living Child impojfible9 how is the cafe to be treated ? ► • 1 A. The child is either to be extracted, ' •' by350 Dijlortion. by dividing the fymphifis pubis, by dimi- nilhing its fize, by excifion, or by extract- ing it through the integuments of the abdomen and a correfponding incifion into the uterus. The firft of thefe methods can never be performed, when there is an im- poffibility of faving the child. The latter can never be performed with propriety, but when the pelvis is fo much contrafted, as not to admit of a delivery any other way. The fecond method is performed with propriety, to fave the mothers life, when every method of effeffing the delivery of a living child, has failed. % O. 422. How is the Syviphifis Pubis di- vided ? A. The patient is to be laid in a hori- rizontal poflure; an incifion is to be then made longitudinally, through the integu- ments, extending four inches above the ofla pubis ; then the cartilage is to be cautioufly divided, to avoid wounding the neck of the bladder/ The pains occuring generally produceDif onion. 351 produce a fufficient reparation of the bones-, but if this is not the cafe, the bones may be feparated about one inch and a half: when the diameter of the pelvis is enlarged about half an inch, the bones cannot be farther feparated without injuring the pofterior ligaments, and the joinings of the os facrum, moft materially. The greateft attention is neceflary in the after treatment of the wound. 1 Q. 423. How is the Size of the Child to be dzminified, fo as to favour the extraction ? A. A perforation is to be made in the moft accefiible part of the head, fufficiently large for allowing the brain to pafs out. The labour pains, now contra&ing the head, make the bones overlope one another, fo that a delivery is eafily effefted. Q. 424. How is the Ccejarian Operation performed ? A. The patient being placed in an hori- zontal pofition, a longitudinal incifion is to be made on one fide of the linea alba, be- 3 ginning /* • ’ «• X ' » ■* \ \ < 352 Diftoftwiy •» ginning two inches above the umbilicus, and continuing it to the length of fix inches: a correfponding incifion is next to be made into the uterus, of a fufficient fize for ad- mitting of the child and placenta being ex- tra£ied ; which is to be done as foon as pof- fible, to allow the uterus to contraft, and to prevent the hemorrhagy. Some of the confiderable arteries may be fecured by liga- tures ; which may be allowed to hang out, by the wTound in the integuments; the edges of which are to be brought into contatf, and retained by the twilled future (O. 298 A The os internum may be kept for fome time open, to allow any effufed blood to run off. F I N I S. 1INDEX. i The Figures refer to the Questions, ■j % T^BDOMEN, Wounds of, 312 Bandage for, 74 Paracentefis of, ibid* Abfcefs, what, 47 Suppuration of, how excited, 10 Mode of Treatment, 48 Degree of Inflammation neceffary for the Cure^ ibid. of the Gums, 21 in the Thorax and Lungs, diagnofis, 66 of the Lungs, how treated, 50 of the Liver, diagnofis of, 51 how treated, 52 of the Eye-ball, 58, 60 Lumbar, diagnofis of, 53 Mode of treatment, 54 Antri Maxillaris, caufeof, 56 Diagnofis, 55 Cure of, 57 Adhefion of the Fingers and Toes, 411 of the Urethra by Inflammation, 407. A a t yEgilopsI I N I) E X. vEgilops danger from, whence arifing, 251 caufe of, ibid. Treatment of, 253 Aglutitio, what, 372 How treated, 373 Air injurious to Wounds, 296 Airy Tumours, 41, 45 Albuginea Tunica, Scarification of, 31 Amputation, choice of place, 320 of the Arm at the Shoulder Joint, 325 of the Toes and Fingers, 325 above the Knee, 321 Leg and foot, 323 Hip Joint with a flap, 324 of the Penis, 362 of the Tongue, 202 after treatment of, in general, 302 Anafarca, what, 75 caufe of, 76 . cure of, 77 of the Scrotum, 85 of the Spermatic Cord, caufe, 90 Diagnofis, 91 Cure of, 92 Ancle, Luxated in different Dire&ions, 189 Treatment of, 190 Ancyloblepharon, how removed, 407 Ancyloglolfum, 410 Aneurifm, what, 104 termination of, 105 caufe of, 106 mode of treatment, 107 operation for, 108 Prognofis of, 109 diffufed, what, 110 , caufe of, 111 cure of, 112 varicofe, what, 113 mode of treatment, 114 Antiphlogiftic Regimen, what, 8 Antrum Maxillare, Abfcefs of, 55. See Abfcefs Anus, Abfceffes of, how treated, 261 Fiflula in, 259. See Ulcer imperforated, 400 Anus.A a 2 fOH • 4-. QQ INDEX. 1 Anus, Tubercles of, 227 how treated, 228 Prolapfusof, 156. See Exania Aorta, Wounds of, rportal, 311 , Arm, Fra&ure of, 349 Amputation, Shoulder Joint, 325 Luxated, Shoulder Joint, 178. See Luxation Artificial Eyes, 204 Teeth, 280 Arteries, Wound of, occafion Aneurifm, m how fecured, to prevent Hemorrhagy, 238 Carotid, to be fecured by Ligature, 309 Afcites, what, 70 Diagnofis of, 71 caufe of, 72 mode of treatment, 73 operation for, 74 of the Spermatic Cord, caufe, 88 cure, 89 Afpera Arteria, Wounds of, 309 (Atheroma, what, 131 treatment of, 132 Auditory Paffage, opening of, 40I cleared of infefts and other Bodies, 376 B Bark of Service in Ophthalmia, 31 Bites of Mad Animals, 317 Bladder pun&ured, in Suppreffion of Urine, 381 Stone in, caufe of, 382 Diagnofis of, 383 how removed, 384 Operations for, 385, 386 Bloodletting, Operation, how performed, 9 Bleeding, Piles what, 121 Boils, Gum, 20 Bones, Fra&ures of, 327. See Fra&ure Carious of, 274 caufes of, 275 Prognofis of, 276 Mode of treatment, 277 Brain, Compreflion of, Diagnofis, 328 treatment of, 329 Brain*INDEX. » Brain, Concuftion of, Diagnofis, 328 treatment of 333 affeftions of, Prognofis in general, 334 Inflammation of, 33. See Phrenitis Breaft, extirpation of, 199 Inflammation of, 15 Cancer of, 197. See Scirrhus Bronchocele, what, 210 Mode of treatment, 311 Bronchotomy, what, 369 how performed, 370 Bubonocele, 143, fee Hernia Buboes, what, 12 mode of treatment, 13 whether ought to be opened, 14 Burns, how treated, 359 the pain in, how obviated, 339 c Caefarian Operation, 424 Calculi, Caufc of, 382, fee Bladder Cut out under the Tongue, 137 Extra&ion from the Urethra, 390 Bladder, 385, 386 Callous Ulcers, 258, fee Fiftulous Ulcers Callofity of Fiftulas not to be removed by the knife, 262 Cancer Occult, what, 297 Open, ibid how treated, 273 ^ of the Lips, 203 of the Tongue, 202 of the Breaft, 197, fee Scirrhus of the Eyes, 204 of the Penis, 362 of the Tefticles, 193, fee Sarcocele of the Breaft, how extirpated, 199 Caries of the Bones, what, 274, fee Bones Carotid Arteries wounded, 309 Caruncles in the Urethra, 378 Caftration, how performed, 196 Catara&s, what, 391 Diagnofis of, 392 Operations for, when proper, 394 Catarafls,• 4 .<33 INDEX. CataraCts, Cure of, 393 Couching, operation for, 395 Extraction of, 396 Couching or Extracting, which is to be pre- ferred, 397 Catheter, how palled into the Bladder, 380 introduction of, failing, what to do, 381 Cauftic applications to the Throat ufcd with caution, 216 Styptic in Hemorrhagy, 238 Chilblains, what, 24 caufe of, 25 mode of treatment, 26 Cicatrices on the Cornea dellroy Vilion, 397 Cirfocele, what, 117 mode of treatment, 118 Clavicle, Luxation of, 176 Clavus, 229 Cleaning of the Teeth, 416 Coccyx, Luxation of, 175 Cohefion of the Fingers, 411 of the Eye-lids, 410 Urethra, 409 Combuftura, how treated, 3 59 Concuffion of the Brain, 328, fee Brain Condyloma, what, 227 How treated, 228 Contracted Mufcles, 412 Contufed wound, 306 Contulions^ 355 Convulfion from Wounds, 301, 303 Cornea, Spots oh, 298, fee Leucoma Corns on the Feet, 229 Coryza, what, 285 how treated, 286 Couching of CataraCts, 395, fee CataraCts Cranium, FraCture of, Diagnolis, 327 Trepanning of, 329 ' Prognofis from, 331 Depreffion of, 328 from Fluids, 330 Trepan not to be applied in every fimple FilTure <?£> 332 Crooked Spine, 419 Crural Hernia, 148, fee Fl^rnia Cubitus,t % INDEX. Cubitus, Fra&ure of, 350 —Luxation of, 180 Cupping, what, 9 Cynanche Tonfillaris, 17 Cyftocele, what, 143 D. Da&ylion, 411 Debility caufe of inflammation, 5 Dentition difficult, 405 how relieved, 406 Depreflion of the Cranium, 328 Diflocation, 167, fee Luxation Diftortion of the Bones of the Pelvis, 421 of the Legs, 47 Drawing of Teeth, 279 Dropfy of the Abdomen, 70, fee Afcites of the Joints, 96, fee Hydarthus of the Scrotum, 78, fee Hydrocele of the Thorax, 67, fee Hydrothorax of the Ovarium, 93 Drowned Perfous, how treated, 371 Dyfcccea, what, 375 how treated, 376 E. Ears, Excrefcences in, 219 Ecchymolis, what 119, fee Thrombus E6fropium, what, 163 how treated, 164 Elytrocele, 153 Elbow Joint, ftiffnefs of obviated, 350 Embryotomy, 423 Empyema, what, 62 Diagnofis of, ibid mode of treatment, 63 Operation for, 64 of both hdes of the Thorax, 65 Emphyfema, what, 41 caufe of, 42 Diagnofis of, 43 Operation for, 44 Eneurens,D X, I N E ^■Ll.Q3 Jll . . ' ' / • Eneurefis, what, 288 how treated, 289 Entrocele, what, 143 Entropium, what, 165 mode of treatment, 166 Epiphora, what, 286 how treated, 287 Epiplocele, what, 143 Epiftaxis, 239 Epulis, 223 Eryfipelas, 22 Diagnofis of, 3 mode of treatment, 23 Everfion of the Eye-lids, 163 Exania, caufes of, 156 Cure of, 157 Excoriation, how treated, 357, Exopthalmia, what, 161 how treated, 162 Exomphalocele, what, 150, fee Hernia Exoftofis, what, 231 how treated, 232 Extenfion in Fraftures, 335 in Luxations, 169 Extra&ion of Bodies from Wounds, 297 of the Stone from the Bladder, 38S> 386 Eyes, wounds of, how dangerous, 315 Operations of, capital, 395, 396 Bulb of Scirrhus, 204 Specks on, 398 treatment of, 399 F, Fauces, Excrefcences in, 212 expulfion of Bodies from, 374 Femur Frafture, 351, fee Frafture Luxated, 183, fee Luxation Amputation of, 321 Fibula, Frafture of, 354 Ficus Condyloma, 227 Fi 1ms on the Eyes, 398 how treated, 399 Fingers Luxated, 182 A a 4 1 Finger*INDEX. • *■ \ Fingers Fra&ured, 350 Fiffure of the Cranium, how treated, 332 Fiflula Lachrymalis, what, 265 caufe of, 366 Prognofis of, 367 treatment of, 368 Operation for, 369 of the Anus, 258, fee Ulcer of the Perineum, caufe of, 263 treatment of, 264 Flatulent Tumours, 41, 45 Fra&ures, Simple, Diagnofis, 337 Prognofis of, 338 treatment of, 339 want of fuccefs in the Cure, 341 what, 336 of the Fingers, 350 of the Carpus, ibid of the Plumerus, 349 of the Bones of the Nofe, 341 of the Bones of the Face, 342 Bones of the Thorax, Diagnofis, 344 mode of treatment, 345 of the Spine, Diagnofis, 346 mode of treatment, 347 of the Thigh Bone, 351 want of fuccefs in the cure, 352 of the Tibia and Fibula, 354 of the Ulna and Radius, 350 of the Lower Jaw, 343 of the Patella, 353 of the Scapula, 348 compound what, 326 of the Bones of the Cranium, 327 Fungus, what, 226 G Ganglion of the Tendons, what 100 how treated, 101 Gangrene, what, 2 Gibbofitas, caufe of, 419 Gonorrhoea /(OH ■ 4 .,-33 £_ . ^4 INDEX. Gonorrhoea Virulenta, what, 290 how treated, 291 Gums, incifion of in Teething, 406 Gunfhot Wounds, danger from, what, 318 treatment of, 319 II Hemorrhagy, flopped, 238 Haemorrhoids, blind, what, 121 caufe of, 122 mode of treatment, 123 Open, what, iat Haemoptyfis, what, 240 Haemate mails, 241 Haematuria, 243 - 9 Uamiatocele Scroti, what, 1*24 how treated, 125 Pe&oralis, 126 how treated, 127 Oculi, caufe of, 128 how treated, 129 Articuli, 130 Hare-lip, what, 363 how cured, 364 k Operation for, 365 Hernia, Diagnofis of in general, 138 caufes of, 139 danger, from whence arifing, 140 Strangulation, of, its Symptoms, 141 treatment of, 142 warm applications improper, ibid, redu£tion of, ibid. Umbilical operation, 150 Inguinal operation, 144 Prognofis of, 146 Congenita, what, 143 Cruralis, what, 148 operation for flrangulation of, 149 Ventralis, how treated, 147 Ovularis, 151 Vaginalis, 153 Herniary Sac to be reduced unopened, 144 ^ HighINDEX. High Operation for Lithotomy, 385 Hollownefs of the Teeth filled up, 278 Hordeolum, what, 221 Humerus, Fra&ure of, 349 / Luxations of, 178 (fee Luxation) Hump Back, 419 how treated, 420 Hydarthus, diagnolis of, 96 mode of treatment, 97 Hydrocele, what, 78 diagnolis of, 79 termination of, 80 caufes of, 81 mode of treatment, 82 radical cure of, 83 operation for, 83 prognofis of, 84 Hydrops Sacci Herniofi, what, 86 O varii, mode of treatment, 93 Burfse Mucofas, caufe of, 98 mode of treatment, 99 Hydrophthalmia what, 94 mode of treatment, 95 Hydrothorax, what, 67 Diagnofis of, 68 mode of treatment of,' 69 Hymen imperforatum, 414 Hypopyon, Diagnofis of, 60 mode of treatment, 61 Hypofpadiaeos, what, 366 how treated, 367 Hypoftaphile, what, 159 how treated, 160 Hyfterotomy, 424 Hyfteroptofis, what, 154 how treated, 155 I. Jaw Luxated, 172 Fractured, 343 Incifion of the Gums crucial in Dentition, 406 Inciion# INDEX. 0 Incifion of the Cornea caufe of Specks, 397 Incontinency of Urine, 288 how treated, 289 Inguinal Hernia, 143 Inflammation, caufe in general, 5 method of cure, 7 Prognofis of, 6 of the Breads, 15 of the Tedicle, 16 of the Tonfils, 17 Introduction of the Catheter, 380 (fee Catheter) Intedines, wounds of, 312 Inverfion of the Eye-lids, 165 Ifchiatocele, what, and how treated, 152 Iffues, formation of, what to attend to, 246 how formed, 247 Ifchuria, what, 377 caufe of, 378 how treated, 379 K. Knee Luxated, 188 joint concretions within, 237 inflammation of, to be guarded againd, 97 \ L. Lacerated wounds, 305 Lachrymal Fidula, 265 Lagocheilos, what, 363 (fee Hare-lip) Lateral Operation for Lithotomy, 386 Prognofis of its fuccefs, 387 how performed in the female* 388 Leeches, bleeding with, 9 Leg, fraCtures of, 354 amputation of, 323 Leucoma, what, 398 how treated, 399 Lips, cancerous, 203 fiffure of, 363 Lithotomy, High Operation for, 385 Lateral Operation for* 386 Lordofis, what, 417 LordofisINDEX, 7 Lordofis, how treated, 418 Lungs, wounds of, diagnofis, 310 Luxation in general, diagnofis of, 167 prognofis of, 168 cure of, 169 of the Shoulder, its dire&ion, 178 how treated, 179 of the Arm, 180 of the bones of the Head, 170 of the bones of the Nofe, 171 lower Jaw, 172 Head and Neck, 173 of the Ribs, 177 of the Clavicle, 176 of the Metatarfi, Carpus and Fingers, 182 of the Thigh, its dire&ion, 183 how reduced, 185 diagnofis of, 184 Patella, how reduced, 186 of the Tibia and Fibula, 187 Knee Joint, 188 Malleoli, its dire&ion, 189 treatment of, igo M Machines, for extending the Arm, 173 Mad Animals, Bite of, 317 Mammse, inflammation, 15 extirpation of, 199. See Scirrhus Maxillary Bone Luxated, 172 Maffodvnia, what, 15 Meatus Auditorius, imperforated, 401 Meliceris, Tumours, 133 Mercury oflervicein Inflammation of the Liver, 19 Merocele, what, 148 how treated, 149 Mouth, Ulcers of, 253 Mufculus Orbicularis, divifion of, 314 N Neck, crooked, operation for, 413 Luxated, 173 N Nephro* . V ■• 4'<33 INDEX. Nephrotomy, 389 Nerve, punfture of, 303 Nipples chapped and fore, 358 Nodus, what, 233 how treated, 234 Nofe, fraffured, 341 Luxation of, 171 Noftrils, imperforated, 403 Polypi in, 217* o 4 Odontalgia Canofa, what, 278 CEfophagus, Wounds of, 309 Subdances flopped in, 37/ (Efophagotomy, 374 CEzena, what, 283 how treated, 284 Opacity of the Cornea, 398. Sec Leucoma of the Cryftalline Lens, 391 Ophthalmia, what, 29 caufe of, 30 mode of treatment, 31 Bark of fervice in, ib. Os imperforatum, 401 Ovarium, Dropfy of, 93 * P Pain inW^ounds, to be obviated, 299 in Burns, how relieved, 359 Paraglofle, what, 158 Paraphymolis, what, 36 mode of treatment, 37 Paracentchs of the Abdomen, 74 of the Thorax, 64 of the Scrotum, 82 Paronychia, what, 27 caufe of, 28 mode of treatment, ib. Parotid Duff, divifion of, 316 Parulis. what, 20 how treated, 21INDEX. Patella, Fra&ured, 353 Luxated, 186 Bandage for, 353 Penis, Sphacelus of, 362 Amputation of, ib. Perineum, Fiftula in. See Ulcer, 263 Pernio, what, 24 caufe of, 25 mode of treatment, 26 Phimofis, what, 38 how treated, 39 operation for, 40 Phlegmone, what, 1 termination of, 2 proximate caufe, method of cure, 7 Phrenitis, caufe of, 33 what, 32 Diagnofis of, 34 mode of treatment, 35 Piles, Blind, 121. See Haemorrhoids Poifonous Wounds, 317 Polypus, what, 212 caufe of, 213 Prognohs of, 214 treatment of, 215 how removed, 216 oftheNofe, 217 of the Uterus, 215 in the Meatus Auditorius, 219 occafion Deafnefs. 37$ Prolapfus Ani, 156. See Exania of the .Eye, 161 of the Uterus, 154 Proflate Gland, Scirrhus, 200 Ptergyium, 222 Pun&ured Wound, 301 Pus, its formation, 2 proper, favourable in healing Wounds, 300 within the Thorax, 41. See Empyema R Radius, Fra&ured, 350 Ranula, ■4$ /'OH 1+.3Q • i- * i INDEX. ‘ Ranula, what, 136 • mode of treatment, 137 Redu&ion of Fra£lures, 339 of Luxations, 169 of Strangulated Hernia, 142 Refolution, what, 2 how attempted, 7 failing what to have recourfe to, 10 not to be in every cafe attempted, 1 Rhagas, how treated, 358 Ribs, Fra&ureof, 354 Luxation of, 177 Rupture Crural, 148 Inguinal, 143, fee Bubonocel® Umbilical, 150 Ifchiatic, 152 Vaginal, 153 Congenial, 143 Oval Hole, 151 Ruptured Tendons, 356 r S. Sarcocele, what, 193 caufesof, 194 Prognolis of, 195 Operation for, 196 Sarcoma, what, 221 Tonfillaris, 224 Scapula fraftured, 348 Scarification of the Coats of the Eye, 31 Tonfils, 17 Scirrhus, what, 191 how treated in general, 192 Arifing fometimes from Inflammation of the Mammas Diagnofis, 1979 how treated, 118 operation for, 99 Tefticle, 193, fee Sarcocele of the Tongue, 202 of the Lower Lip, 203 of the Bulb of the Eye, 204 Sclopetoplaga, danger from what, 318 treatment of, 310I N D E X. *• V . * W, . ' * * \ Scrophula Diagnofisof, 205 Tumours opening of, 207 fuppuration of, 206 Articularis Diagnofis of, 208 Mode of Treatment, 209 Scrophulous Ulcers, 270 Scrotum Dropfy of 78, See Hydrocele Anafarcal fwelling of, treatment, 85 Setons, what, 246* See IiTue ' Sigaultian Operation, 422 Sinous Ulcer, what, 255 Prognosis, 256 Treatment of, 257 Slings for the Arm in Fra&ure, 349 Spaims from Wounds, 301, 303 Spermatic Cord encylled Dropfy of, 88 treated, 89 Spina bifida, what, 102 Mode of Treatment, 103 Spine Diftortion of, 419 how treated, 420 Fra&ure of, 346. See Fraflur© Spiniculi Genu Articuli, 237 * Sphacelus, what, 360 how treated, 361 of the Penis, 362 Splenocele, what, 143 Staphyloma, what, 58 Treatment of, 59 Steatoma, what, 134 how treated, 135 Sternum, Fra£ture of, 344 Strabifmus, how treated, 414 Suppreflion of Urine, 377, See Ifchunst Suppuration, how attempted, 10 Symptoms of Fra&ures, 337 of Luxation, 167 Synizefis, what, 408 Syphilitic Ulcer, 271 , N T. Teeth, derangement of, how treated, 416 cleaning of, 416 % Teeth,.3 h Valgus I lOH • i\. .QQ L INDEX1. ! ’ y • Teeth, hollow and darious, 278 drawing of, 279 artificial, what, to attend to 280 Teething, what, 405 how relieved, 406 Tenaculum, 238 Tendons, Pun&ure of, 303 how treated, 304 Ruptures of, 356 Teflicle Schirrous, 193. See Sarcoceld, inflamed, how treated, 16 Extirpation of, 196 Thigh fra&ured, 351 Amputation of, 321 Luxated, 183 how treated, 185 Diagnofis of, 184 Thlafis, what, 327, fee Brain Thorax Wounds, Superficial Diagnofis* 310 penetrating its cavity, ibid* how treated 311 Paracentefis of 64 Thrombus, what, 119 Thymus, what, 227 Tibia fra&ured* 354 luxated, 187 Tobacco Glyfterof Smoke inHernia, 14s Tongue fchirrous and cancerous,-202 Amputation of, ibid• Tonfils enlarged, 224 Scarification of, 17 Inflammation of, ibid. Tourniquet, 238 Trachea, Wounds of, 309 Trepanning of the Cranium, 329] Sternum, 345 Tumours Scirrhous, never to be partially removed, 192 Tympanites, what, 45 Treatment of, 46 V. I Vacillatio, what, 415 Vaginal Hernia, what, 1530 INDEX. Valgus, what 417 Varicocele, what, 117 Mode of Treatment, 118 Varix, what, 115 Treatment of, 116 Venereal Buboes, 12. See Bubo Ulcers, 271 Venefe&ion, 9 Ventral Hernia, 147 Vertebras fra&ured, 346 Verruca, how treated, 230 Ulcer Simple, what, 244 cure in every cafe not proper, 245 how treated, 249 Difcharge vitiated, how fituated, 250 in general, Prognolis, 248 Sinous, 255. Sinous Fiftulous, what, 258 in Ano, 259 termination of, 260 treatment of 261 operation for, 262 in perineo, 263 how treated, 264 Ulcers, Fiftulae Lachrymalis, 265 (fee Fiflula) Scrophulous, 276 Venereal, diagnolis, 271 how treated, 272 Scorbutic, diagnolis, 281 cure of, 282 Carcinomatous, 273 in the bladder, 264 of the Mouth, 253 of the Eye,^251 (fee /Egilops) Umbilical Hernia, 150 (fee Hernia) Ulna, fra&ure of, 350 Urethra, imperforated, 366 Calculi, in, 390 Urine, incontinency of, 288 ' treatment of, 289 fuppreflion of, 377 (fee Ifchuria) Velicles of Burns, when to be opened, 350 Uterus, Scirrhus, 201 Prolapfus of, 155 *} %_ ' \ «r Uvula(OH • i+.aa INDEX. Uvula, tumefied and prolapfed, 159 how treated, 160 W. Warts, cure of, 230 White Swellings of the Joints, 205 Scrophulus, 205 Rheumatic, 205 how treated, 209 Whitlow, what, 24 caufe of, 25 treatment of, 26 Women, extra&ing the Stone from, 388 Wounds, fimple, what, 294 prognofis of, 295 treatment of, 297 want of fuccefs in the cure, 299 how obviated, 300 of the Abdomen, fuperficial diagnofis, 312 treatment when penetrating, 313 of the Arteries from Aneurifm, 111 Gunfhot, danger frorn whence arifing, 318 treatment of, 319 Contufed, 306 treatment of, 307 Pun&ured, danger from whence, 301 how treated, 302 Lacerated, treatment of, 305 of the inteftines, 313 of the Thorax, diagnofis, 310 treatment of, 311 of the Eye, dangers from whence arifing, 313 Tranfverfe of the Orbicularis mufcle, 314 penetrating the Joints, 308 of the Trachea, 309 Wry Neck, operation for, 4134..,;. ■- ’• •• ^ ■ , * \ r ' V ♦ : • ' v - . k - - - - . • • «V - <* ' 4. I 4 y. /i . .... ■ ) * 1 k ■ > t ' H „ „ .41 i »•'* • , A/-1 V-f. •* v ' 7 ‘ ♦. ■ ■ -V ■ . V*v;, . * •• <- * rV, ' r V < n ' $./’ ;,*> ' ' - - "< ' ■ ■' y ERRATA. .. ^.r J4"', « , . ■ ' Wherever the word Prognous occurs, previous to page 117, read Prognojis—p. 22, 1. 23, for retiring, r. returning p. 26, 1. 7, after fails, infert the—p. 28, 1. 5, for cure, r. cafe—p. 3 1. 13, for luficles, r. Veficles—p. 28,1. 9, for (0^28) r. (Q^8). —p. 48,1. 12, for (Q^2o) r. (Q;ja)—p. 60, 1. 13, for irritate to the, r. irritate the—p. 80, 1. 18, for Staphylema, r. Staphyloma —p. 87, 1. 14 ; p. 91, 1. 22 ; and p. 93, 1. 2, for dilation, r. dila- tation—p. 93, 1. 16; and p. 120, 1. 16, for head, r. heart—p. 113, 1. 20, after emptied, infert/^—p. 128, 129,130, for Extropium, r. Eftropium-—p. 142, 1. 4, for Treaks, r. Freaks—p. 149, 1. 10, after have, infert been—p. 185, 1. 2, for Hyocenofes, r. Apoceno- fes—p. 204, I. 1, for Biftay, r. Bijloryy p. 209, 1. 1, for remofa, r, remora—p, 214, for bone, r. Cure—p. 224,1. 2, for Seufluxus, r. Serifiuxus—p. 247, 1. 23, for injured, r. of injuring—p. 267, for Levater, r. Levator—p. 299, 1. 25, for plunged into it, r. plugged into the fifsure—p. 309, 1. 17 ; p. 310, 1. 1; p.311, 1. n, for proftrate, r. projlate—p. 316, 1. 25, for compofed, r. decom- pofed—p. 320 1. 7 for excited, r. executed. ERRATA of the NOTES. Page 30, for Lennert, r. Sennert—p. 3r, for Purulis, r. Pa- rulis—p.36, for Horalius, r, Horatius—p. 39ydele Opthalmia Sep- hiluca, Baglivi.—p. 120, for Oniphaloceli, r. Omphalocele—p. 126, for Dioners, r. Dionis—p. 234, for Hamonica, r. Harmonica —p. 128, for Blepharoptoris, r. Blepharoptojis—p. 151, for Plat* noris, r. Platner. DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER. The Table to come immediately after page 12. *n ■3* 1 •. ' t / I f 0. „■A ^I r igJiTTu A ■ ziiUl&T? 1 '. / I fiji l 1 m 1 Sr /