NOTES. 47 the undesirable condition called Disease was the result of the neg- lect or infringement of those laws. In this way, he laid the foundation of those great advances which are now going on so rapidly—those, namely, which elucidate the laws of hygiene, and tend to prevent the generation and the spread of disease. 39. The following anecdote was often repeated by the late Dr. Garthshore, a physician of the old school, and intimate with Hun- ter. ' One morning, finding Mr. Hunter very busy in his collection, I observed, " Ah ! John, you are always at work." " I am," re- plied Mr. Hunter; "and when 1 am dead, you will not soon meet with another John Hunter." Whoever was acquainted with the parties, will never suspect that this sentence implied more than that, if his whole collection should not be in order during his life- time, it would be accomplished with great difficulty after his death.'—'Memoirs of J. Hunter,' by J. Adams. London, 1818, p. 260. 40. See a ' Memoir of Callender,' by Sir James Paget, Bart., in the 15th vol. of ' St. Bartholomew's Reports.' 41. 'Schools Inquiry Commission,'vol. i. ' Report of the Com- mission,' 1868, ch. i. In further support of this statement see an ' Address to the Students of the Westminster Hospital,' by Dr. Dupre. * Lancet' for 1879, vol. ii. p. 498. Dupre says : ' Looking back to his school-days he could re- member the enthusiasm with which the advantages of a so-called technical education as opposed to the old classical education were supported by many great scientific men of the day, and foremost among these by Baron Liehig. ' The efiect of this movement was such that for a time, at least, classics were considered only secondary in importance as a factor in education. ' But a reaction took place, and Liebig himself admitted in after years, that, among his own students, those who had received a classical education were superior to the rest.' .... LOXDON ; rHHTTISD IIT SrOTTISWOODK AND CO., NKW-STnUKT SQUARE AND PARLIAMENT STBEET GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARY