46 THE IIUNTERIAN ORATION. Nor did he stop in the vegetable world—he even studied the common inanimate matter of the globe—for he says, ' the better to understand animal matter, it is necessary to understand the pro- perties of common matter, in order to see how far these properties are introduced into the vegetable and animal operations.' ' In their decay, both animals and vegetables go through a series of regular spontaneous changes, until the whole return to common matter from whence they arose, for to the earth they must go from whence they came.' Thus Hunter's reach of thought and work carried him into in- organic science, where he clearly saw the foundations of all organic science must be laid. With this view he examined the structure of crystals, of which he had a valuable collection, both of regular and irregular forms, which he was accustomed to use in his lectiures to exemplify the difference between the laws of growth of organic bodies and the in- crease of inorganic bodies. His idea was that irregular crystals were pathological crystals. So far, it is universally admitted that Hunter laid, in his Mu- seum, the materials of the basis of a new science, comparative physiology. Having, in this manner, i.e. by an appeal to nature, obtained an insight into the general laws of the animal and vegetable economy in health, Hunter was satisfied that he had the key to the right understanding of pathology, not only in the animal, but in the vegetable world. Hunter's great mission was pathology. Of the laws of patho- logy he was constantly in search. To discover them was his high aim. He knew that the discovery would raise surgery to a science. His observations led him to the conclusion that the laws of pathology were identical with the laws of physiology; and that the best way to get a knowledge of human pathology was to survey the whole of nature as he had done. As an instance, I may refer to his showing his class an oak-leaf which he had picked up in his garden. On this leaf were several excrescences which we call oak-galls. These excrescences he found to be the results of irritation occasioned by a small insect—the ex- crescences being the organised exudation following inflammation. ' Lectures on the Principles of Surgery,' p. 391. Hunter showed that the comfortable condition which we call Health, was the result of observing certain rules of life; and that