SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 70 LECTURE VII. Changes perceptible to the Naked Eye in Wounds with Loss of Substance.—Finer Pro- cesses in Healing with Granulation and Suppuration.—Pus.—Cicatrization.—Ob- servations on “ Inflammation.”- J>emonstration of Preparations illustrative of the Healing of Wounds. It now icmains for us to inquire what becomes of the wound, if, under the above circumstances, it does not heal by first intention. Then, as the flaps gape, we have an open wound before us; and the circumstances are the .same as if the gaping wound had not been closed, or as if a piece had been cut out, as in a wound with loss of substance. Accurate ob.servation of such wounds, which are usually covered Avith some unirritating body, as wdth a fold of linen dipped in oil, with oiled or dry charpie, etc., shows the following changes—if we examine it daily, this is not necessary, it is true, and may even be in- jurious : after twenty-four hours, you find the borders of the Avound slightly reddened, someAvhat swollen, and sensitiv-e to the touch ; the same symptoms as in closed Avounds. As in healing by first inten- tion, these symptoms may be very insignificant or entirely absent, as in old, relaxed, flabby skin, also in strong skin Avith thick epidermis. We obserA'e these symptoms best in the skin of healthy children. An extensi\"8 and increasing redness, swelling, and pain about the Avound, make us suspect an abnormal course; just as, Avith the same symptoms in a AA^ound healing by first intention, A'arious individual circumstances are to be considered, and the vibrations from the normal to the abnor- mal are so numerous, that the dividing line is often difficult to deter- mine. After the first tAventy-four hours, the surface of the AVOund has changed but little ; aU over it you can still recognize the tissues quite distinctly, although they have a peculiar gelatinous, grayish appear- ance ; you also find a considerable number of yelloAAush or grayish-red small particles over the surface; on close examination, you find these to be small fragments of dead tissue, Avhich still adhere, hoAvever. Tlie second day, you m.ay already notice a trace of reddish-yelloAV, thin fluid over the wound, the tissues ajjpear more regularly grayish red and gelatinous, and their boundaries become more indistinct. The third day, the secretion from the wound is pure yelloAAq somcAA'liat thicker, most of the yelloAV dead particles are detached and floAV off Avith the secretion; the surface of the Avound becomes more CA’cn and regularly red—it cleans off^ as AA'e say technically. If you had not bound up the Avound (a stump from amputation, for instance), and had received in a basin the secretion that formed, the first and second day you Avould find it bloody, broAvnish red, then of a gelatinous dirty gra}'.