BURNS AND FROST-BITES. 270 suppuration; in most cases, however, this will be unnecessary, and the treatment by nitrate of silver m.ay be continued till the eschar is completely detached. If large granulating surfaces remain, e.specially on parts of the surface that are moved much, and where the neigh- boring skin is not very movable, it may take a long time, often months, for them to heal. Very luxuriant granulations form, and their ten- dency to cicatrize is always very slight. Of the remedies already given for promoting the healing of such wounds, I particularly recom- mend to you the compression of the wound by strips of adhesive plaster, which are of excellent service in some of these cases. In the treatment of cicatricial contractions resulting from these burns, com- pression of the cicatricial bands by adhesive plaster is one of the most important remedies, and you would always do well to try this per- sistentlj’' before resorting to excision of the cicatrix, or to plastic ojDerations. If, in a burn of the third degree, there has been charring of a limb, it may often be advisable to amputate at once ; not only because the detachment of a large part of the body is not free from danger, but also because the stumps thus left are unfit for the apifiication of an artificial limb. If called to a case where there is a burn of the greater part of the body, you must give your whole attention to the general condition of the patient, and try to prevent collapse, by the use of stimulants, such as wine, hot drinks, hot baths, ether, ammonia, etc. Unfortunately, in most of these cases, our efforts to preserve life are in vain. Hebra praises the treatment of extensive burns by the continued warm bath, which, under proper circumstances, may be kept up for weeks. Persons with delicate skins, long exposed to the sun's rays, may have slight degrees of burns of the face and neck. This is often ob- served in persons travelling on the mountains. When persons, espe- cially women, who do not usually pass the day in the sun, travel for several bright days in summer, without carefully protecting the face and neck, the skin becomes red, swollen, and very painful; after three or four days the skin dries to brown crusts, cracks, and peels off. In other persons, Avith still more irritable skins, A'esicles form, which sub- sequently dry up, without, however, leaving any cicatrices ((jczenia solare). Besides prophylaxis by veils, sun-shades, etc,, it is avcII to cover the skin of such mountain traA’^ellers with cold cream or gh'cc- rine ; the same remedies may also be used in developed sunburn ; if the lAurnt parts be very painful, Ave may apply cold compresses. Here Ave must also speak of sunstroke, or i?isolation. In our cli-