METHOD OF AMPUTATION. 125 a bony envelope has formed around it, which replaces the lost bone. When speaking of complicated fractures, we have already stated that osteophytes may form at the amputated end of the bone. Osteo- myelitis of the stump is difficult to recognize at its onset ; but you may assume its presence if on the third or fourth day after the operation the patient, who has previously been free from fever, sud- denly has a high fever with chills and diarrhoea, while the stump shows no signs of inflammation, or perhaps most of it has healed by first intention. Hence, as the cause of the fever is not inflamma- tion of the soft parts, it must be in the bone, unless there be some ex- ceptional complication. At all events, in such cases you should open the stump and expose the bone, to evacuate any pus that may have formed. Occasionally you may in this way save the patient, but usually it is too late; for, from the uncertainty of the symptoms, we rarely have the courage to lay open the beautifully-healed wound, although it would do no great harm even if we were mistaken in the diagnosis. In amputations and exarticulations the chief points are: 1. To do the operation with as little loss of blood as possible. 2. To arrest the bleeding completely, so that there may be no secondary haemorrhage. 3. To cover the end of the bone wit'h soft parts, so that they may unite easily and completely. In regard to the first two points, I have nothing to add to what I have already said. Before the operation JEsmarch's bandage should be applied; the amputation may then be done without losing a drop of blood. After the operation I twist the small arteries, and close the larger ones by acupressure or catgut ligature. After exarticulation of the femur or humerus I ligate the femoral and axillary arteries, because I have found it such slow work to apply the needles securely. The end of the bone must be covered with soft parts, which must heal over it; if this does not occur, and the bone projects,the granu- lations growing out of it either fail to cicatrize and form an ulcer, or, if they do cicatrize, the cicatrix adherent to the bone has so little vitality that wearing an artifical limb soon makes it sore. This is very unfortunate, as it prevents the patient from using the stump, and condemns him to two crutches and pain in the ulcerated stump for the rest of his da3’S. Hence the bone must be sawed higher up than where tlie soft parts have been divided. In oxarticulations the soft parts must always be divided below the end of the bone. In accordance with tlicse principles, the soft parts may be divided as follows, and properly shaped to cover the stump :