334 GANGRENE. ergotin. If bread be made from such grain, persons eating it are affected with peculiar symptoms, which are comprised under the name ergotismus or rapliania. As the above disease of the grain is usually limited to certain regions, it may be readily understood that the dis- ease should occur epidemically in men and beasts. It has been known for a long time, but the first accurate descriptions are of an epidemic in France in 1630. The disease seems to have occurred rarely in Germany, England, or Italy. Of late it hardly ever occurs, probably because the diseased grain is better known and is no longer used for food, and because less of the grain is grown since potatoes have come into common use. From former descriptions, various forma and courses of the disease may be distinguished, of which sometimes one and sometimes another prevailed in the different epidemics ; possibly the poison is not always the same, or is at least of variable intensity. In the acute cases, the patients were soon attacked with severe gen- eral cramps, and death resulted in from four to eight days; cramps only occur occasionally; at the same time, and previously in the pro- dromal stage, there are great itching and crawling in the skin, but par- ticularly in the hands ; there, is also a feeling of deafness, of anaesthe- sia in the ends of the fingers, rarely moist gangrene of the skin, then of whole extremities. In more chronic cases, the result is usually favorable, although several fingers or toes may be lost. 4. We have still to speak of several forms of gangrene whose causes are not exactly known, in -which probably several influences unite. Among these is so-called water-canker, noma, a spontaneous gangrene of the cheeks, especially common in children, which is most frecpient in cities along the Baltic, and more rare inland. Very puny children, living in cold, damp dwellings, are particularly prone to this disease, in which, without any known cause, a gangrenous nodule forms in the middle of the cheek or lip and spreads rapidly till the child finally dies of e.xhaustion. It is doubtful whether this is due to anmmia with feebleness of the heart, to miasmatic influence, or to some peculiar disease of the blood. In occasional remarks about sepli- cremia, we have already stated that certain morbid states of tlie blood predispose to gangrene. Under this cause we must class the cases occurring after tyjjhus, intermittent and exanthematous fevers, in diabetes mellitus, morbus Brightii, etc. After and during these dis- eases, gangrene of the tip of the nose, of the ear, cheeks, liands, and feet, occurs ; and in rare cases an exanthema of tlie skin may pass into rrano-rene. In such cases we may consider that the miasma which has induced the constitutional disease also influences the occurrence of the gangrene; and, on the other side, there seems reason for the idea that these cases are mostly the result of feeble action of the heart.