CARCINOMATA. 685 fibrous tissue contracts to a firm cicatrix. Besides tliis cicatricial shrinking, and not unfrequentlj along with it, there is often softening; it is, perhaps, even more frequent than contraction; at all events, it is more extensive. This softening is mostly preceded by fatty degen- eration of the cells and caseous metamorphosis; central'softening, opening outwardly, formation of a putrid ulcer, with fungous edges, is very characteristic of carcinoma. Mucous metamorphosis of the cell- protoplasm also takes place in some glandular carcinomata, relatively most often in those of the liver, stomach, and rectum; in rare cases, this also affects the connective-tissue stroma. This mucous cancer is also called gelatinous or colloid. "^Vlien cancerous degenerations oc- cur on the surface, the papillary layer may develop so as to become very prominent, as in &ora.Q papillary cancers (destructive papillomata) of the mucous membrane of the lips, stomach, and portio vaginalis, and as in villous cancer., which develops on the mucous membrane of the bladder, in the form of dendritic, branched, large papillae. If the cicatricial contraction predominate in a carcinoma (as it does in some forms of cancer of the breast), hard tumors or ulcers are developed, which have for ages been called scirt'lius. Some carcinomata are brown or black, but still melano-carcinomata are rare. Most soft melanomata are sarcomata,^" You will more readily acquire an idea of the different forms of cancer by studying attentively their origin and the localities where they chiefly occur, 1, Skin (cutis) and mucous membranes with pavement-epithelium. Common epithelial carcinoma (specially so called because it was the first, and, until lately, the only form in which the main body of the cancerous tumor was known to consist of epithelium), or cancroid (cancer-like tumors ; this name was chosen because these cancers of the skin were considered less malignant than those forms observed in the breast, which were considered as the t}q>e of time cancer). The cutis is covered by a layer of epithelium, from which in the foetus there are various ingrowths into the subjacent tissue, namely, the hair-follicles, hair, sebaceous, and sweat glands. Mucous glands are formed on mu- cous membranes in the same way. Many assert that all these tissues may have epithelial outgrowths, I shall not deny this, but ejiithelial ingrowths may be most readily proved in the rete Malpighii, Next to this, a considerable collection of epithelium in the sebaceous glands and glands of the oral mucous membrane, and their enlargement, are also frequently witnessed; less frequently, the hair-follicles and sweat- glands are implicated. During this ingrowing, the young cells of the rete at first preserve their size and form; even their relation to the connective tissue of the cutis remains the same, for those cells Ij’ing 45