722 AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. will you be so cruel as to say, “ I told you so ” ? It is a trying mo- ment for the surgeon. If there is the slightest prospect of a cure, even under such circumstances, he will amputate ; the hope of saving under such circumstances a patient who has been “given up ” is an evidence of youthful and justifiable pride in surgical power. But when we fail to succeed time after time, and grow weary of trying for the rare successes, we become more resigned, and watch with re- gret the sinking ship without sending out the life-boat of our surgi- cal skill. Seductive as may be the hope of accomplishing wonders by unusual skill, v/e must still shun the danger of showing our skill to be impotent. For too many mishaps finally annul in every con- scientious surgeon the pleasure and trust in his art. I hope what has been said will make you think seriously, before any important operation, whether jmu should operate, and how. You must remember that in any serious operation you require the patient to put his life in your hands, and you owe him your best knowledge and skill. It is difficult to give general indications for amputations and re- sections ; almost any general rule in surgery might be criticised in special cases; but it will be w’ell to epitomize what I have said on these points during the present lectures, and I will add something about the performance of the operations and the after-treatment of the patient. AMPUTATIONS AND EXARTICULATIONS. In some injuries of the exti’emities, it is certain from the first that the limb must become gangrenous, or that the consequent sup- puration will be so great as to seriously endanger the life of the patient. But if primary amputation is not submitted to, and gan- grene is far advanced, amputation will probably not prevent death ; and the same is true in advanced phlegmonous inflammation with septicaemia. The only hope of success is in cases where you can am- putate in perfectly healthy tissue; for instance, when, in traumatic gangrene which has spread from an injury of the hand or forearm to the elbow-joint, you can amputate high in the arm or at the shoulder-joint. Under analogous conditions, similar operations on the thigh or hip-joint are much less favorable. If conservative treatment has been successfully tried for a time, and then symptoms of pyrnmia appear, amputation may be resorted to with some hope of success in the upper extremities, but rarely so in the lower limbs. In these so-called secondary amputations, a favorable result is more probable when pyEemic symptoms have not appeared, but from