408 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. ally accompanied by secondary softening of the mass, which is at fu st dry and cheesy, and tliis fluid pulp under tlie microscope is found to be composed almost entirely of molecular granules, some fat, shreds of tissue, and half-atropliied cells. The above process may be seen especially often in chronic inflammation of the lympliatic glands; but in them the spontaneous throwing off of the caseous deposit takes place very slowly, hence these fistulaj of lymphatic glands often re- main stationary for months or years. Another termination is for the caseous deposit to attain only a slight extent, then to atropliy entirely, and to take up such a cjuantity of lime-salts as to finall}'^ form a chalky concrement^ which is concen- trically enclosed by a cicatrix. But, as was stated, this only occurs in small caseous deposits. 5. There is still another form of chronic inflammation, which is ac- companied by the deposit of a peculiar substance, the so-called larda- ceous or amyloid, from the blood. But I shall not enter into this subject further, for this form of disease occurs chiefly in the internal organs, and hence has only an indirect interest for us. First, as regards the results of chronic inflammation in a purely histological view, they vary. The cell-infiUration and the neojslastic process goes on chiefly in the connective tissue, and after its termina- tion the final result is either a restitutio ad integrum or a cicatrix after the part has been destroyed by ulceration. Wiien this process attacks muscles or nerves, the tissues suffer severely secondarily. The con- tractile substance in the muscle, as well as the axis-cylinder and medullary sheath of the nerve-filament, is not unfrequently destroyed by molecular disintegration or fatty degeneration, due to the disturbance of nutrition. Hence atrophy of the muscles and paralysis may result from chronic inflammation. How far the regenerative power of muscles and nerves goes under such circumstances is not decided. Molecular destruction and fatty degeneration may also occur without inflamma- tion of the connective tissue enveloping the muscles and nerves. But I do not think we are justified in terming such a process of fatty disintegration of the protoplasm inflammation of the muscles and nerves, as has been done by Virchow in the muscles, at least, althougli it must be acknowledged that, in the great majority of cases, the a])- pearance of fat-granules in tlie protoplasm may be regarded as the first expression of pathological (but not always retrogressive) pro- cesses in the body of the cell {Strieker). The fatty disintegration of a tissue may be the result of inflammation, or may even accomjiany it; but to seek in it the nature of the inflammation, and to regard the latter as a disturber of nutrition to so wide an extent, does not seem to render it more comprehensible or of practical benefit. Vhe regard