172 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. matic and indammatory diseases, wlncli you may regard as a coiitiiii^ ation of this study of fever. I will only remaik here that both the septic and purulent primary and secondary inflammations, with their accompanying fever, may also occur from incised wound.s, especially after extensive operations (as amputations and resections). We have considered this condition along with contused wounds, because it complicates them much more frequently than it does ordinary incised wounds. Now we pass to the treatment of contused wounds. In many cases contused wounds require no more treatment than incised wounds ; the conditions for healing exist in both. Hence, in a contused wound it is only necessary to anticipate any accidents, or at all events to master them so that they may not become dangerous. In both respects we may do something. Formerly it was always sup- posed that the air -with its oxygen and its ferments particularly favored the decomposition of dead, organic bodies, hence of contused parts ; to prevent this, the wound was excluded from the air, and, to prevent warmth acting as an aid to decomposition, the Avounded part was kept cool. We attain both objects by placing the injured part in a vessel of cold water, whose temperature is always kept cool by ice. This treatment is called “ immersion ” or “ continued cold-water bath.” I first saw this used with excellent eflect by my earliest teacher in surgery. Prof. JBaum, in Gottingen. This mode of treatment is only really practical in the extremities; in the leg as high as the knee, and in the arm to a little above the elbow. We place suitably-constructed arm and foot vessels filled with cold water in the patient’s bed, and have the Avounded extremity kept in it day and night. The patient’s position should be such that he lies easily, and that the extremities may never press too hard on the edge of the vessel. This is all very simple ; you Avill often see this apparatus in my clinic. In the most common injuries of the hand, a basin Avith cold Avater is sulBcient in private practice. In parts Avhich cannot be kept in Avatcr in this sim- ple Avay, Ave try to exclude the air by applying moist linen compresses, which readily adapt themselves to the injured part; over these Ave apply a rubber bag (or a bladder) filled Avith ice, which is to be re- placed as it melts. It is still more efficacious to Avrap up a limb Avell and pack it in a vessel Avith ice. A third method of applying cold Avater is the so-called irrigation. For this Ave require special appara- tuses. The injured extremity is laid in a tin trough, sujiplied Avitli an escape-tube. Above the extremity avc place an apparatus from Avhich a continued stream of cold Avater drops from a moderate height on the wound. Lastly, Ave may simply coA'er the avouiuI from lime tc time Avith compresses dij)ped in ice-water.