CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. 660 more satisfactory than the i^revious hypothetical explanations, which mostly referred the affection to foetal myelitis, with consecutive paral- ysis and contraction, that the latter scarcely deserve menticn except for their historical interest. Some other congenital deformities of the feet are proved to be due to abnormal positions, and especially to abnormal pressure. VolJcmaim has collected some very interesting observations on this point; but these cases differ among themselves, showing that there was something accidental in their occurrence. In still other cases large portions of bone remained undeveloped, e. g., the lower end of the tibia, fibula, or radius, or the whole radius (manus vara). In the sjDinal column, lateral halves of the vertebrae sometimes do not develop fullj’-, or superfluous pieces may be formed, causing lat- eral curvature (scoliosis) ; but these congenital cases of curvature are very rare ; the Vienna collection has a few of these rare specimens. Lastly, we must here mention the faulty develoiDinent of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle, which is not rarely congenital and is quite t3'pical; the vertebrae remain normal, so far as is known ; we know nothing of the causes of this deformity ; the hypotheses I have seen seem to me scarcely probable. II. DEFORMITIES DEVELOPING ONLY IN CHILDREN AND YOUNG PER- SONS, CAUSED BY DISTURBED GROWTH OF THE JOINTS. All conditions of the body, such as standing, walking, sitting, etc., depend on the forms of the joints and their ligaments, and on muscu- lar action. The effect of the latter on all our positions, even in the way wc lie, you ma\- best perceive by trying to give a certain position to a cadaver, from which the rigor mortis has passed away; you would then see that we rarely take the natural positions given by the form of the joints and ligaments, but generally aid them by the mus- cles. Persons whose muscles tire easily, from weakness, exhaustion from disease, or lack of exercise, in assuming any position will of course seek the one most natural, and requiring least muscular action. The articular pressure due to muscular action is always evenly dis- tributed over the whole articular surface, and, when this action dimin- ishes or ceases, individual parts of the ends of the bones forming the joint have to bear all the pressure. If the bones were fully developed and firm, this unusual burden would have no further results, if it were of short duration. But when growing bones, which are still soft, and will remain so for a time till their forms arc fullj'’ developed, arc re- peatedly and for a long time exposed to pressure, acting on the same point, the form of the articular surface and of the articular ligaments gradually change.s; the bones also sometimes fall into a state of