TUBERCULOSIS. 423 every new formation that has undergone caseous degeneration is not considered as tubercle. It was reserved for Buhl^ by careful experi- ments, to arrive at the idea that acute miliarj' tuberculosis was the pro- per type of tuberculous disease; he found it mostly combined with old caseous or purulent inflammatory foci ; he made the bold assertion that it alwa\ s resulted from absorption of substances from these foci. According to this, tuberculosis was an infectious disease, a scrt of nodular exanthema ou and in internal organs, caused by the absorp- tion of an injurious substance, particularly from old caseous points of inflammation in the lymphatic glands, lungs, bone, etc., and some of these particles may have a specific infectious action, as emboli in the lymph- and blood-vessels. Investigations of late years have shown that many destructions—in the lungs, for instance—which previ- ously had been considered, due to miliary tuberculosis as a matter of course, are insjDissated, caseous, and partly-softened spots, that must be regarded as the result of a simple chronic, ulcerative inflammation, as no miliary tubercles are found in them, but only large-celled infil- tration. It seems, indeed, tliat even in pulmonary tuberculosis the formation of true tubercle is to be regarded as secondary and fre- quent, but by no means necessar\-. Niemeyer deserves great credit for his practical application of tliis view, according to which a diathe- esis to chronic2>nrulent inflammations of certain organs, but not the tuberculous infection, would be congenital. This view is of late greatly supjDorted by the fact that attempts to render animals, espe- cially Guinea-pigs and rabbits, tuberculous, have succeeded. In these little animals irritation of very short dur-ation excites inflammation with caseous purulent products, and from this focus results a tuberculous dyscrasia, which evinces itself in the]woduction partly of miliary tuber- cles, especially on the serous membranes, partly of yellow nodules in the lung, liver, spleen, etc., and causes death. These very interesting ex- periments, which were begun by Villemin, aud repeated hy Bebert and Wgss, Fox, Klebs, Cohnheim, Waldenburg, Menzel, and others, with the same result, but with different interpretations, seem to me to prove, what I have always maintained, that tubercle is merely a peculiar form of inflammatory new foianation ; that is, that BuhVs view is coriect. But it is important to remember that these inoculations only succeeded in animals having a tendency to cheesy degeneration, as rabbits, etc. liindfleisch says these animals become tuberculous w henever they have a chronic inflammation. In dogs the inoculation does not succeed. If from what has just been said we recognize to the full extent the immense progress recently made in the knowh'dgo of tuberculosis, still we must not fail to see that it docs not fully explain the interest-