495 RACHITIS. so as the operation may last some time; amputation is a trifle in comparison. Local anmmia (as induced by Esmarch's bandage) greatly facilitates the recognition of the anatomical conditions in these operations. Formerly amputations were frequently performed for total necrosis, a thing that no surgeon would do now. Hence, in old museums, you find the most beautiful preparations of extensive necroses; now these are rarely found, because almost all sequestra are removed at the proper time. Locally the operation is quite ex- tensive, but the febrile reaction is usually slight. Severe as the in- flammator}’- symptoms and fever might be if you were to treat a healthy bone in the same way, the effect on the bony case of the sequestrum is but slight. From my own experience, I do not know of a case which, after such an operation, even where the entire bony case was opened in total necrosis of the tibia, turned out badly; and I am satisfied that the operation for necrosis is one of the most successful of operations, and that by it many lives are saved, such as were formerly lost from amputation, from constitutional diseases due to continued suppuration from the bone, or from fatty degeneration of internal organs, morbus Brightii, and tuberculosis. LECTURE XXXVI. APPENDIX TO CHAPTER XVI. Rachitis: Anatomy, Symptoms, Etiology, Treatment.—Osteomalacia.—Hypertro- phy and Atrophy of Bone. Rachitis and Osteomalacia.—We must still touch on two consti- tutional diseases, which are chiefly manifested in certain changes of the bone, nameljq softening. They are called rachitis and osteoma- lacia. Their effects in changing the form of the bone are much alike, but their natures differ somewhat. They cannot be exactly classed among the chronic inflammations, although nearest related to this process, , Let us begin with rachitis. The name comes from the backbone, and properly signifies inflammation of the spine; but the vertebras rarely suffer much in rachitis ; hence the origin of the name is not very clear; subsequently it was often called “Englisli dis- ease,*’ because it was particularly well known to English writers, and probably also was especially frequent in England. Tlie essence of the disease consists in deficient deposit of chalky salts in the growing bone, and remarkable thickness of the epi- physeal cartilages. You will already see that this disease is peculiar