LYMPHOMATA. 663 Fio. 148. From the cortical layer of a hyperplastic cervical lymphatic "land. Magnified 350 diameters, rt a, section of vessels with thickened walls, brushed-out alcohol preparation. to a yellowish-red. These tumors are firm and elastic; they are easily diagnosed, from their locality. All lymphatic glands are not equally disposed to this disease ; the most frequently affected, are the cervical either on one or both sides; more rarely the axillary and inguinal, most rarely the abdominal and bronchial. These tumors are hardly evmr congenital, but they may occur from the first to the sixtieth year, although the}’’ are most frequent between the eighth and twentieth. Not unfrequently, hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands is multiple; but only one or a few glands in the neck may be affected ; if this be the case, the tendency to such neoplasia runs out in the course of time, Avhile the tumors ■which have grown painlessly, and continued free fi-om pain, have their growth arrested, and may be carried till death. In rare cases, the new formation appears almost at the same time in all the lymphatic glands of one or both sides of the neck, so that the latter is thickened, and the movements of the head are much impeded ; if these tumors continue to grow, they finally compress the trachea and cause death by sufibcation ; but even in these severe cases there is occasionally a spontaneous arrest of the disease, and then even large tumors of this kind may be successfully extirpated; some of these glands, too, are finally destroyed by ulceration and caseous de- generation. The worst cases are those where the tumors quickly grow to large medullary tumors (not unfrequently under the form of fasciculated medullary fungi), and where the neighboring tissue is also changed to lymphoma. Patients with such tumors rarely escape ; anccmia comes on, the nutrition is impaired, and hypertrophy of the spleen may appear, and the patient die of excessive anmmia and marasmus. These malignant lymphomata, which LucJce calls lymphosarcomata^ cannot be anatomically distinguished from the benignant forms. But thev