V02 TUMORS. been able to attend to their household duties. In this stage (say twc years after the coinmenceinent of the first tumor) another sjTnptom has usually appeared, or does so shortly, namely, ulceration. This generally begins with the following symptoms : Part of the tumor be- comes prominent, the skin grows thinner and redder, is traversed by visible vessels; finally a fissure or vesicle forms on the elevated, red, fluctuating tumor; now part of the cancerous tissue which is exposed to the air becomes gangrenous, breaks into shreds, and a crater-like, excavated ulcer is left, which long maintains this shape, if the sur- roundings and base of the ulcer be still hard ; but, if the parts about the ulcer be already soft, the substance of the tumor begins to prolif- erate at the edges and from the depths, and to cover the parts around like a fungus. An ulcer, sometimes torpid, sometimes fungous, is thus developed; its secretion is always sero-sanious; badly-smelling, gangrenous shreds are often thrown off. But, what is still worse, parenchymatous or even arterial haemorrhages occasionally occur from the surface of the ulcer, and exhaust the patient. We have followed the condition of the patient till he has become partly or entirely bed- ridden ; we now soon come to the catastrophe: the patient becomes pale and greatly emaciated ; the appetite is lost, the strength grows less, the nights are often sleepless from the i^ain; opiates must be re-sorted to, to give the patients sleep and temporary relief. We now have the well-marked picture of cancerous dyscrasia or cachexia. It may go on in this way for months; the smell from the cancerous ulcer infests the chamber, the patients become weaker, the skin grows grayish-yellow and claj'ey. Pains on breathing and in the region of the liver, as well as in the bones of the limbs, come on. The patient becomes marasmic, and dies in agony after protracted, painful suffer- ing, unless the end is hastened by pleurisy or peritonitis. On au- topsy, in most cases we find carcinomatous tumors of the plemn, liver, and (»ccasionally of the bones, it may be of the femur or of the vertebrae, or else of the ribs on the side where the tumor of the breast was. The whole disease has lasted two years and a half. For many cases of cancer of the breast the above description Avill be very accurate, but there are some modifications of this course. First, the rapidity of the local course varies; the tumor may remain confined to the breast, without any affection of the lymphatic glands —a very rare case. The disease of tlie glands appears almost simul- taneously with the tumor of the breast; this always leads us to ex- pect a very ra])id course of the disease, while converselj'^ a very late and moderate local spread to the lymjihatic glands indicates a mild, slow course of the whole disease. Carcinomata may come in the two breasts simultaneously, or in one soon after the other; this makes the