SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 104 recognized under the microscope as fine dust; placed in water, they swell and throw out more or less small pale spheres, micrococcus {a, Fig. 21 a). According to external circumstances, these assume the following forms : 1. While increasing by segmentation, they throw out a slimy cement {fflia), by which they hang together in balls, like frog-spawn (coccoglia, or gliaccecus, b, Fig. 21 a) ; on the surface of fluids this form often appears as coherent bright-brownish mem- branes, and it also grows into the interstices of tissues, and is found as whitish-gray flakes in fluids ; this form is always without motion. Under certain circumstances the glia around these spheres and cyl- inders thickens to a membrane, the coccus becomes movable and es- capes through an opening in the capsule (ascococcus, from doKog, tube). 2. The coccus divides always in one direction, and some of the divisions remain, like frog-spawn, united by a delicate envelope of glia (c. Fig. 21 a) ; these streptococei are sometimes in motion, wriggling slowly across the field of the microscope, but usually they are at rest; we may find them in fresh secretion from the wound or in pus, and often in alkaline urine, without there being necessarily any bad odor; the streptococcus, along with the isolated micrococ- cus and gliacoccus, aie the forms of coccobacteria which occur most frequently in decomposing secretion from wounds or in diphtheria of wounds. With absolute rest the streptococcus may form lung upright filaments, but this is very rare in living organisms, and is difficult to see under the microscope. '3. The coccus grows to rods, which increase in length and then divide across j thus we have bacteria chains Fig. 21 a), which may be moving or motionless. In some fluids the division of the bacteria goes on very rapidlj'’, the rods becoming shorter, till they are finally square or rounded ; and so between coccus and bacteria there are numerous transition forms. Bacteria are m^t apt to enter the secretion from wounds, pus, or decomposing blood ; on the other hand, they develop and remain in all fluids of the cadaver and in watery exudations of almost all tis- sues ; in the latter they are vei’y movable. All of these vegetations require plenty of water and organic substances, especially nitrogenous matters, for their rapid piopaga- tion ; they bear abstraction of water up to a certain point, but if entirely dried out they die; and although they will subsequently swell if placed in water, they have lost their power of vegetating. They can bear temperatures as low as the freezing point, and nearly up to the boiling point ; but when it reaches the boiling point they die. In fluids or moist tissues completely excluded from atmos- pheric air, they will vegetate till all the air contained in the tluid has been used up ; then, no more air being absorbed by the fluid.