G38 TUMORS. well be taken for gray filaments containing no medulla, as Virchow considers them ; this would make true neuromata a large class, and di- vide them into mjmline and amyaline forms. I do not always trust myself to distinguish an amyline neuroma from a fibroma in a nenm, and hence should not require it of others. Tumors composed of spin- dle-cells arranged in bundles are probably far oftener young myomata and neuromata than young fibromata, but it would be difficult to prove to which class they belong. Multipbcity and tendency to regional recurrence are peculiar to neuromata, hence the prognosis should always be guarded. It is rarely possible , to dissect a neuroma from the nerve; part of the latter must generally be removed with it. 7. ANGIOMATA-VASCULAR TUMORS. By this term we mean tumors composed almost exclusively of ves- sels held together by a slight amount of connective tissue; they have also been called [nrevi, mother’s-marks] “ erectile tumors,” being firm- er or softer, larger or smaller, according to the fulness of the vessels. The ordinary foims of varicose dilatations of the veins and the aneu- risms of different arteries are excluded by this definition. But circoid aneurism and some forms of aneurismal varix might be classed here ; yet, as this is not customary, we treated of these diseases earlier. Here we have to consider two different varieties of vascular tumors: (a.) The plexiform angioma or telangiectasis (from reAof, ayysiov, eKTaatg). This is the most frequent form ; this neoplasia is composed entirely of dilated and tortuous capillaries, and anastomosing vessels, and, according as the proliferation of the vessels or the pure ectasia predominates, it appears more as a tumor or as a red spot on the skin. Plexiform angiomata, of the variety we are about to describe, occur almost exclusively in the cutis. They have sometimes a dark- cherry, at others a steel-blue color ; arc sometimes as large as a pin- head, again as large as a hemp-seed; some are moderately thick, others scarcely rise above the level of the skin. There are very rare forms where there is not a red spot or a tumor, but a diffuse redness over a large surface ; in such cases, even with the naked eye, we usu- ally see tlie distended and looped fine vessels on the surface of the cutis, showing through the epidermis. Anatomical examination of large extirpated angiomata of this variety shows that they are com- posed of small lobuli as large as a hemp-seed or a pea; and, if, after artificial injection or other mode of preparation, we examine them microscopically, avc shall find that these lobuli are formed by the ves- sels of the sweat-glands, hair-follicles, fat-glands, and fat-lobuli, being independently diseased, and that the different small proliferating, vas- cular systems form tlic above-mentioned lobuli, which are visible to