388 TEAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. patient’s body is bathed in sweat, his mind being clear 5 occasionally the urine contains albumen; sometimes the fever rises to a height that is rarely seen, even to 104° Fahr., or over. But I have seen cases of trismus prove rapidly fatal, without the temperature becoming ele- vated; JRose has made similar observations. Death may occur within twenty-four hours from the commencement of the disease, but the lat- ter may also last Avith considerable seA^erity for three or four days ; these cases also are to be classed among the acute. There is a more subacute or chronic form of trismus, and of trismus and tetanus, in which there is merely a gradual development of a moderate trismus and of contractions Avithout pain, extending to single groups of mus- cles of the injured limb. In these chronic cases fever is usually en- tirely absent. It is rare for an acute case to become chronic. All the symptoms indicate that there is an irritation of the spinal medulla and of the portio minor of the fifth pair. The symptoms re- semble, although remotely, those which may be induced by poisoning by strychnia. Unfortunately, the results given by autopsy of these patients are usually A’ery unsatisfactorj'-; in the acute cases, especially, nothing can be found in the spinal medulla; in cases of some days’ duration, JRokitansky claims to have seen a development of young connective tissue in the sjainal medulla, which Avould make it appear that there Avas an inflammatory alfection of this nerve-centre. My ex- aminations of the spine and nerves in tetanus have thus far given only negative results. In preparations made from cross-sections of the spinal medulla, and sent to me by excellent specialists in examining the nervous system (Dr. Goll, in Zurich, and Dr. 3Ieynert, in Vienna), I saw the connective tissue remarkably developed at some places, it is true; but, as there Avas no collection of young cells, I Avas in doubt Avhether this increase of connective tissue Avas really neAv formation, or Avas due to mere accidental SAvelling. The symptoms during life, in cases Avhere we find decided evidences of sjDinal inflammation, are so different from tetanus as to render it improbable that the latter de- pends on myelitis spinalis. The discovery of small extravasations of blood in the muscles and nerve-sheaths, on autops}'^, shoAVS little about the nature of the disease, for they may be caused by ruptures of the capillaries during the great muscular contractions. There are many vieAvs as to the causes of this disease, as there usually are about affections Avith no anatomical, pathological charac- teristics. At first, it was natural to examine the nerves, and in many cases the nerve-trunks are crushed by the injury, or torn or irritated by foreign bodies. I myself have seen some such cases ; a few years since, I saAv a sporadic case Avhere, in an open splintered fracture of the lower end of the radius, the median nerve Avas half torn through; the