TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISKASES, ETC. 340 three tlie redness grows less, tlie skin desquamates, partly as a bran-like powder, or in scales and tags of epidermis. In some cases, even at the commencement of the erysipela.s, the epidermis rises in vesicles, which are filled with serum [enjsipelas hidlosum). Jiut lliis erysipelas is not a peculiar form of the disease; it only indicates rapid exudation. We not unfrequentl}' see vesicles appear on the face in erysipelas, while on the rest of the body the disease has the usual form. If erysipelas attacks the scalp, the hair often falls, but grows again quickl3^ According to rny experience, the disease is most fre- quent on the lower limbs, then on the face, upper extremities, brea.st and back, head, neck, and belly. This scale of frequency probabl\' depends on the proportionate numbers of injuries in the different parts of the body. Erysipelas, like other exanthemata, may be accompanied by vari- ous internal diseases, as pleurisy, and erysipelas capitis by meningitis; but, on the whole, these complications are rare, and when they occur are usually a result of the disease advancing to the deeper parts. The course of erj’sipelas is usually favorable. Of one hundred and thirty-seven cases of the uncomplicated disease, which I observed in Zurich, ten died; children, old persons, and patients debilitated by previous disease are most endangered, and, according to my experi- ence, they usually die of exhaustion from the continued fever ; on autopsy, we find no remarkable change of any organ that can be re- garded as the cause of death. Cloudy swelling and partial granular degeneration of the liver, kidneys, and epithelium, and softness of the spleen, are found in cases of fatal erysipelas, as after all intense blood- diseases. The nature of erysipelas is not fully understood, as its cause and the mode of its progress are not quite clear. Dilatation of the capillaries of the cutis, serous exudation in the tissue itself, and an active development of the cells of the rete INIaljiighii are all we can find anatomically. The disease rarely extends to the subcutaneous cellular tissue ; it is true, this swells enormouslv in some places, ns in the eyelids and scrotum, being greatly saturated with serum ; but in most cases this oedema recedes without any sequela*. In rare cases this oedema attains such a grade that, as a result of the great distention of tissue, the circulation of blood is arrested, and the jiarts (as the eye- lids) may become wholly or partly gangrenous. Shoidd all the skin of an upper or lower eyelid bo lost in this wa_v, it would cause great deformity ; but usually only small ]")ortions mortify, and, in the upper lid particularly, the skin is so jilenty in most jiersons that the defect is subsef|uenlly but little notic('d. In other cases, after the subsi- dence of tlie erysipelatous inflammation, there remains a swf'lling of the subcutaneous tissue, in which we may distincth' feel tluctualion,