INTRODUCTION. 4 the Art of Life ”) is the most important Sanscrit work for medicine ; it is the production of JSus)'utas. It very probably originated in the time of the Roman Emperor Augustus. The art of healing was regarded as a whole, as is indicated by tlie following: “ It is only the combina- tion of medicine and surgery that makes the complete physician. The physician lacking knowledge of one of these branches is like a bird with only one wing.” At that time surgery was without doubt by far the more advanced part of the medical art. A large number of op- erations and instruments are spoken of; still, it is truly said “ the best of all instruments is the hand; ” the treatment of wounds given is simple and projDer. Most surgical injuries were already known. Among the Greeks all medical knowledge at first centred in.^s- culapivs, a son of Apollo, and a scholar of the Centaur Chiron. Many temples were built to Aesculapius, and the art of healing Avas handed down by tradition through the priests of these temples ; the number of these temples induced various schools of AEsculapides, and, although every one entering the temple as a priest had to take an oath, Avhich has been handed down to our own times (although of late its genuineness appears rather doubtful), that he would only teach the art of healing to his successors, still, as appears from various cir- cumstances, even at that time there were other jjhysicians besides the priests. From one part of the oath, even, it is evident that then as now there were phj'sicians Avho, as specialists, confined themselves to cer- tain operations ; for it says: “ Furthermore, I a\t.11 never cut for stone, but will leave this operation to men of that occupation.” Of the different varieties of phj’sicians we knoAV nothing more accurate till the time of Hippocrates ; he Avas one of the last of the Asklepiades. He Avas bom 460 b. c., on the island of Cos; lived partly in Athens, partly in Thessalian toAvns, and died 377 b. c. at Larissa. We might e.xpect that medicine Avould be considered scientifically at this time, when the names of Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle, Avere shining in Grecian science ; and in fact the Avorks of Hippocrates, many of Avhich are still preserved, arouse our astonishment. The clear classical de- scription, the arrangement of the Avhole material, the high regard for the healing art, the sharp critical observations, that appear in the works of Hippocrates, and compel our admiration and respect for an- cient Greece on this branch also, clearly shoAV that it is not a case of blind belief in traditional medical dogmas, but that there Avas already a scientific and elaborately perfected medicine. In the Hippocratic schools the art of healing formed one AA'hole; medicine and surgery Avere united, but there Avere A^arious classes of medical practitioners ; besides the Asklepiades there Avere other educated physicians, as Avell as more mechanically instructed medical assistants, gymnasts, quacks,