THROMBOSIS. 357 creases, the abscess heals, and complete cure may result. Anatomical examination of these cases shows that there has been suppurative inflammation in the connective tissue around the vein. e also find that the coats of the thrombosed veins are greatly thickened; this is to be regarded as a result, not as a cause of the thrombosis. I will here add that the diagnosis of a venous thrombus cannot alwa}'s be made, from the vein feeling like a hard cord; for occasionally in6am- mation in the cellular tissue around the vein may extend, and cause condensation and tube-like thickening of the sheath of the vessel, which may readily cause it to be mistaken for thrombus, though it does not nec^sarily lead to it. I have twice seen this mistake of periphlebitic cellular induration for thrombus of the saphenous vein, and I consider it impossible to make a certain diagnosis in all cases. The fact that such a periphlebitis, which is perfectly analogous to perilymphangitis, and in which the walls of the veins certainly parti- cipate, can exist without thrombosis, proves beyond a doubt that the latter is not necessarily the cause of inflammation of the veins, as was formerly supposed. Another possible metamorphosis of thrombus is friable disintegration. In this, softening of the clot usually begins at the point where the thrombus began, that is, at the oldest part. The fibrine breaks down into a pulp, which is yellowish or brownish, and smeary in proportion to the number of red blood-corpuscles contained in the coag-ulum. This disintegration spreads more and more ; even the tunica intiina of the vein does not escape, it becomes wrinkled and thickened. The thrombus changes to pus, which mingles with the detritus of the fibrine, while the walls of the veins and surrounding cellular tissue are greatly thickened; occasionally, although rarely, small abscesses form in the walls of the vein. Hence, here the inflam Illation of the wall of the vein is to be regarded as the result of soft- ening of the thrombus, and the pus which we then find in the vein does not come from the wound (the old idea), but forms in the vein from the blood-clot. Often, also, the puriform fluid is only fluid fibrinous detritus, while in many cases good thick pus, with fully-de- veloped corpuscles, may be found in these veins. If the wound be putrid, the fibrinous detritus in the vein may also assume a iiutrid character, putrid fluid being taken up by capillary action of the throm- bus from the wound and acting as a ferment on the disintegrated fibrine. This capillary action of the thrombus might also be supposed to cause an action of the decomposed secretion on the blood. Of course there can be no extensive flow of pus or other secretion from the wound into tlie vein, as the opening in the vessel is plugged by the thrombus. Sliould there be a rapid disintegration of the venous throm- bus from the peripheral to the central ends, which is rare, there would