271 FROST-BITES. mate, this disease occurs almost exclusively in young soldiers, who have to make fatiguing marches in full uniform in very hot, bright weather. There are severe headache, dizziness, unconsciousness, and sometimes death in a few hours. In the Orient, especially in India, this disease is not rare among the English soldiers; some cases are quite acute, ending with tetanic spasms; others begin with long pro- dromata, and drag on tvith symptoms of severe headache, burning sldn, continued fatigue and depression, palpitation of the heart, twitching of the muscles, etc.; even when this state ends in recoverjq relapses are common. Patients with sunstroke are to be treated like those with congestion of the brain. Cold affusions and bladders of ice to the head, rest in a cool chamber, purgatives, leeches behind the ears, sinapisms to the nape of the neck, are the proper remedies. Ac- cording to the experience of Enghsh surgeons, venesection is injuri- ous. We also have something to say about the effect of being struck by lightning. Probably all of you have at some time seen houses or trees that had been struck by lightning; we usually see a large rent, a fissure with charred edges. Men . and animals may also be struck so as to lose single limbs, but this is not always the case; usually the lightning travels along the body, in at one place, out at another; the clothes are rent, or even torn off and cast aside; peculiar, branched, zigzag brownish-red lines are found on the body; these have been regarded as representations of the nearest tree, or as blood coagulated in the vessels and shining through ; both views are incorrect; we do not know why the lightning runs this peculiar course on the sldn. If a person be directly struck by lightning, he is usually killed on the spot. If the lightning strike in his immediate vicinity, it induces symptoms of commotion of the brain, paralysis of certain limbs or or- gans of special sense, and occasional extravasations and burns. Tlie latter heal like other burns, according to their degree and extent. Paralysis from lightning is not usually of bad prognosis; the nervous and muscular activity may return after a longer or shorter time. FROST-BITES. We may oivide frost-bites into three grades analogous to those of burns; the first of those is characterized by redness of the skin, the second by formation of vesicles, the third by eschars. The first degree of frost-bite is quite well known ; we might regard the so-called dcad- ness of the fingers as its mildest form ; probably each of you has some- time had this in a cold bath, or in winter-time. The finger becomes