295 PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. destruction is being bounded; tlien the decomposing tissue enters the open lymphatics and acts as a ferment in the blood, causing fever. Although inflammation of tlie cellular tissue (cellulitis) may occur at any part of the body, it is most frequent in the hand, forearm, knee, foot, and leg. It is often accompanied, and, when extending, preceded, by lymphangitis, of which we shall speak among the accidental trau- matic diseases. The intensity and duration of the fever, accompanying these in- flammations, depend on the quantity and quality of the material re- absorbed. At first a quantity of these matters is thrown into the Iflood at once, hence at the onset there is usually high fever, some- times chill; as the inflammation progresses, the fever continues; it ceases when further absorption of the inflammatory product is arrest- ed by the above changes of tissue, when the process stops and the abscess is formed. The quality of the inflammatory material formed in cellular inflammation certainly varies greatly; for instance,in some cases deep in the neck in old people there is such intense poisoning that the patients die without other symptoms. It is here the same as in carbuncle—some cases cause little fever, others produce fatal septic fever. If a phlegmon be due to a dangerous poison, such as that of glanders, we do not wonder at the fatal termination; but for the spontaneous cases it often seems very strange why some should be so very severe, while most of them are relatively mild. The prognosis of phlegmonous inflammations varies immensely with the location, extent, and cause. While the disease, occurring as a metastasis in a genera>l phlogistic or suppurative diathesis, or in glanders, gives little hopes of cure, while deeply-seated abscesses in the walls of the abdomen or in the pelvis are very slow in their course and may prove dangerous from the locality, or, by destruction of fas- cicC, tendons, and skin, may impair the functions, most cases of phleg- mon on the fingers, hand, forearm, etc., are only moderate diseases of short duration, although very painful. The sooner suppuration occurs and the more circumscribed the inflammation, the better the prognosis. As regai’ds the treatment^ at the commencement of the disease its aim is to arrest the development of the disease if possible, that is, to attain the earliest possible reabsorption of the serous and plastic in- filtration. For this purpose there are various remedies: first, the ex- ternal use of mercury; the inflamed part may be smeared with mer- curial ointment, the patient placed in bed, and the inflamed extremity enveloped in warm, moist cloths or large cataplasms. Ice also may be enqrloyed at first, it the whole inflamed part can be covered with several bladders of ice. Compression by adhesive plaster and band- ages is also a very cllective remedy for aiding absoi’iation, but it is