483 DETACHMENT OF THE SEQUESTRUM. b(igin partly in the surface of tlie bone, jjartly in the softer parts of the periosteum, in its outer layers; the tendinous portion participates but little; indeed, it is mostly destroyed. In proof of this I have very decided anatomical evidences. The anatomists and surgeons who believe in the elevation of the periosteum consider the shaded layer, e e, as infiltrated, thickened periosteum; this is only conditionally true: it may happen that part of the periosteum does not suppurate and enters into the composition of this layer; however, other adjacent parts may also be so indurated by plastic infiltration as to form a firm abscess membrane, as is often seen in abscesses of the soft parts. 'V^^loever maintains the exclusive power of the periosteum to produce bone will, on theoretical grounds, regard this layer, e e (where bone is subsequently formed), as thickened periosteum. But, in the forma- tion of callus, after fractures, we have already seen that bone in con- siderable quantity may under certain circumstances be produced in other soft parts lying near the bone, and hence we are not obliged to demand periosteum in this thickened layer of the abscess. But we are going on too rapidly. Let us return to our example. Tlie pus-cavity around the sequestrum cannot close till the latter is out of it; but this remains attached at both ends. You already know how” the detachment is effected : at d d, in the edges of the living bone, there is an interstitial proliferation of granulations, by which a slight amount of bone is consumed, so that at last the osseous substance is entirely replaced by soft granulations at these ends; this completes the detachment of the sequestrum (see page 220); the granulations form- ing here break down somewhat, soften to pus, and then the seques- trum lies loose in a pus-cavity, which is filled with proliferating granu- lations. In the thick hollow bones this detachment of the sequestrum requires a long time, usually several months, sometimes over a j^ear; up to this time the pus has escaped from the places where it had jaer- forated the skin; if, during this time, you introduce a probe through the openings, you may usually feel the smooth surface of the diaphysis. But, during this process of detachment of the sequestrum, something else is generally going on in the immediate vicinity, to which we shall now turn our attention. In the thickened layer of the pus-cavity, e e, new osseous tissue has formed regularly around the sequestrum longi- tudinally ; this ossification has also continued to the part where the tliickened layer again joins the periosteum of the epiphysis and the capsule of the joint, so that the bone-capsule is intimately connected witli the epiphysis above and below. The longer the sequestrum remains in the cavity, the more the bony envelope increases in thick- ness ; in time it becomes very thick; in the course of years, if the sequestrum does not come out, it may be over half an inch thick ; at