TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 3G2 LECTURE XXVI. n.—General Accidental Diseases wliich may accompany Wounds and Local Inflamma- tions. 1. Traumatic and Inflammatory Fever; 3. Septic Fever and Septictemia; 3. Suppurative Fever and Pysemia. n —GENERAL ACCIDENTAL DISEASES WHICH MAT ACCOMPANY WOUNDS AND OTHER LOCAL INFLAMMATIONS. The local accidental traumatic diseases which we have so far de- scribed are always accompanied by constitutional disease, which is chiefly though not always feverish in its nature. Fever is such a com- plication of symptoms that it may seem very different according to the addition of one or other symptom ; now it is generally determined only to say that there is fever when the temperature of the blood is elevated, and to measure the intensity of the fever by the height of the temperature. I do not think it advisable to combat this position, for by abandoning it we should lose the common idea of what we call fever, and throw it back into the old chaos. But I must tell you that there are many and very dangerous general diseases in patients with wounds or other local inflammations, in which no change of tempera- ture of the blood can be discovered; hence the latter is only condi- tionally a measure of the patient’s danger. Besides the elevation of temperature, in fever we have the following chief s}Tnptoms: Increased rapidity of cardiac action and respiration, loss of appetite, frequently nausea, feeling of weakness, great sweating, not unfrequently trem- bling of certain groups of muscles (in chills), more or less mental excitement and blunting of the senses. Fever is a general disease, which may result from many causes; in other words, the number of pyrogenous, like that of jihlogogenous substances, is innumerable. According to the quantity and quality of these substances (which we term poisons) that have entered the blood, one or other set of symp- toms is more prominent: thus there is fever with very high tempera- ture, while all other symptoms are slight; fever with great blunting of the senses, and but little elevation of bodily temperature; fever whose prominent symptom is severe shivering, so-called chills; fever with disturbance of the gastric functions, fatigue, etc., for the chief symptoms. Why, then, shonld we not have fever (a state of intoxi- cation caused by materials absorbed from wounds or points of inflam- mation) with all the symptoms, except elevation of the temperature of the blood ? From some cause or other this particular symptom might in some cases be concealed or prevented from appearing. But, as alreadv stated, we shall accept the present view of fever, and only