SECONDARY HyEMORRHAGE. 163 While I made ready to ligate the femoral artery, the patient died he had bled to death. A very sad case ! A man otherwise healthy, strong, in the bloom of life, near recovery, must end his life in this miserable way! Rarely has a case so depressed me. Still there was no blame anywhere, as it happened all the circumstances had been very favorable. The nurse was awake in the next room, the physician was only down one flight of stairs in the same house, and was with the patient in three or four minutes ; but the bleeding must have existed before he woke. He was probably awakened by the feeling of wet- ness in the bed. On autopsy, a small spot of the femoral artery was found suppurated and ijerforated. Fortunately, it is not always a femoral that bleeds, nor does the bleeding always come so precipi- tately, or at night; hence, W'e should not become dissatisfied with our art from such a rare case. Usually such arterial hgemorrhages from sujjpurating wounds are at first insignificant, and soon cease under styptics or comiDression ; but after a few days the bleeding comes on more actively, and is more difficult to arrest; finally, the haemorrhages recur more and more quickly, and the patient constantly becomes worse. In all severe arterial haemorrhage instantaneous compression is the first remedy. Every nurse should understand compressing the arterial trunks of the extremities; but they soon lose their presence of mind, as in the above case, and, in their first terror, run themselves for the surgeon, instead of compressing the vessel and sending some one else. Compression is onl}" a palliative remedy. The bleeding may cease after it; but, if it be considerable, and you are sure of its origin, I strongly advise you at once to ligate the artery at the point of election, for this is the only certain remedy. You should do this the sooner if the patient be already exhausted; remember that a sec- ond or third such bleeding will surely cause death. Hence, in the operative course, you should particularly practise ligating the arteries, so that you may find them so certainly that you could operate when half asleep. In these particular cases much time is unnecessarily lost in applying styptics, which usually act only palliatively, or not at all. Ligation of arteries is only a trifle for one who knows anatomy thor- oughly, and has employed his time well in the operative courses. Anatomy, gentlemen 1 Anatomy, and again anatomy! A human jfe often hangs on the certainty of your knowledge in thi-s branch. While treating of secondary haemorrhages, we shall speak of parenchymatous lioemorrhayes. The blood rises from the granula- tions as from a sponge ; we nowhere see a bleeding, spirting vessel. The whole surface bleeds, especially at every change of the dressing. This may be due to various causes: great friability or destructibility of the granulations, that is, their defective organization, may be the fault,