AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. 732 tubes are inserted and light compressing dressing applied, which at first is to be replaced whenever it becomes saturated with blood and serum. Lately I have treated some amputation-stumps by Lister's method with good results ; most Gei'man surgeons employ this method exclusively after amputations. Treating the stump in the water-bath was attended by so many difficulties that it was soon given up. When treating of circular amputations made in one plane, we spoke of the unfortunate occurrence of conical stumps. They may be due to unsuitable incisions through the soft parts or deficiency of soft parts; but these are not the only or even most frequent causes. In marasmic patients there is sometimes such an atrophy of the soft parts of the stump that they grow thinner and shorter, and sink more and more on the bone; this is particularly the case at the lower end of the femur, where few muscles are inserted and none originate. Moreover, where the covering was plenty, inflammation and suppura- tion of the stump induce subsequent atrophy, wliich retracts the soft parts so much, and so attaclies them to the bone, that they cannot be brought into place by the cicatricial contraction of the granulating wound. This is the most frequent cause of conical stumj^s. As in- flammation cannot always be prevented, the operator is not alwa^'s responsible for conical stumps. One might think this could be avoided by providing for plenty of flap to cover the stump; but an excess of flap is also objectionable. If we make long skin-flaps, their ends become gangrenous ; the loss of substance thus entailed is not the worst of this, but we should try to avoid the decomposi- tion thus induced. If we have made too long a funnel of muscles, there is another objection; that is, the flap is so heavy that its weight presses it strongly against the edge of the bone ; we can to some extent prevent this by placing a splint under the stump to support it. If we see that a conical stump is forming, we may appl}* adhe- sive plaster and weights, as in coxitis, to draw the skin down, or at least to aid the concentric contraction of the granulating surface by freeing it from the opposition. If the patient bears this without pain in the stump or fever, it may be of benefit; but if these symp- toms appear, it must be abandoned. If, as a result of osteomyelitis, extensive necrosis of the stump occurs, it is indeed shortened, but ihe osteophytes which have formed prevent too much shrinkage, and they do not atrophy for years. l\Iy experience does not show that the stump becomes less conical by the detachment of the seques- trum ; usually an operation is required. I split the mass of granula- tions upward into the skin and downward to the bone, then push the