THROMBOSIS, EMBOLISM. 359 Pig. 67 point where the next branch joins, and has a conical end, which projects a little (Fig. 67,«), and, if the coagulum loses its firmness, a portion of the coagulum may be torn off by the current of blood, and pass into the circulation ; this passes into the larger veins, thence into the right heart, thence to the pulmonary artery, in whose branches it is finally arrested at some point of bifurcation, as its size does not allow it to pass farther. This branch of the pulmonary artery is now closed by a clot of fibrine, as by a cork, a so-called embolus; the immediate consequence is a lack of blood in the parts of the lung previously supplied by the plugged artery. This local lack of blood (ischaemia of Virchow) does not usually last long, but blood enters the empty artery from small collateral arteries; it is true, blood may thus again enter the vein, but it comes from the small collateral branches, and flows very slowly, and niaj'- at last stop altogether, and coagulation extend back- ward through the capillaries even into the throm- bosed arterial branch. Thus, as a result of em- bolus in the artery, the whole corresponding vasciflar territory is thrombosed; there may also be ruptures of the vessels, hemorrhages ; as the arteries of the lungs, spleen, and kidneys, con- stantly divide into smaller branches, and thus the vascular ten-itory constantly enlarges toward the periphery, and resembles a cone with the apex in the organ, so the part in which the above coagulation occurs must be shaped like a wedge or cone. In pathological anatomy these coagulations due to embolism have been called “ red or hmmorrhagic wedge-shaped infarctions.” Frequently as these wedge-shaped infarctions occur, they are not a necessary result of embo- Biagram : a, central end of a venous thrombus pro- jecting into a large tiiink; 6, a branch with- out thrombus; the blood flowing through it may detach and carry into tlie circulation the end o( the thrombus a. lisni; for, when the arterial collateral circulation is strong enough in the ischemic part to drive the blood through the capillaries, as is the case in otherwise healthy persons and in animals, as Avell as iti emboli causing little mechanical or chemical irritatioii of the tissue, tliere is no infarction, at all events no considerable dis- turbance of circulation, but we have simply to consider the local processes around the embolus, as foreign bodies in tlie branch of the artery. Tliese local processes depend on the character of the embolus; if the latter be a pure fibrinous clot, there is a sliglit thickening of the wall of the vessel at the point wliere the embolus is