CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 51G i mend to you the plaster-splint; this treatment appears very inefficient, yet it is more useful than all the other remedies that we have for combating this disease. I can assure you that, since following this treatment perseveringly, my cases are less frequently complicated with suppuration and fistulm. Even when there is evident fluctuation you may apply the dressing; it is true you will rarely see the abscess reabsorbed, still, when it opens spontaneously under the bandage, as the i:>atient will readily notice from the moistening of the dressing, this will take place more quietly, propitiously, and painlessly, than under any other plan of treatment. When fistulae have formed, w<} may still use the plaster-splint, simply slitting it up and putting in new wadding; it should be removed daily and the sores dressed, then re- applied ; at the same time the constitutional treatment should be persevered in. If the limb be very painful, and there are any fistu- las present, we should use splints with openings. In this way I have occasionally preserved a good, useful position in joints moderately movable, Wuere the prognosis was at first very bad, and have indeed been frequently most agreeably surprised at the results of this treat- ment. Extension must be undertaken very carefully in joints that are suppurating or much diseased in any way, and, if even during anmsthesia there should be resistance, complete extension should never be made at one sitting, but it should only be carried so far as may be done without great force. In knee and hip diseases I use, with great benefit, the extension by weights which has been so often recommended, and occasionally thus prepare patients, especially chil- dren, for the application of the plaster-bandage. VolJcmann deserves many thanks for his energetic recommendation of this plan of treat- ment, which he calls the “ Distractionsmethode.” He attaches great importance to the fact that the extension reduces to a minimum the pressure of the articular surfaces on each other, that is caused by the tension of the muscles and contraction of the ligaments. The mode of applying the extension is so very important for the practical use of this method, that I must particularly recommend you to give }*our special attention to its mechanical application in the clinic.’'® Perseverance on your part and on that of the patient is absolutely necessary, for the cure of chronic inflammations of the joints; repre- sent to the patient, at the outset, that this is a disease of at least sev- eral months’, possibly of some years’ duration, and that the dressing is not to be left oil till the limb is free from pain, and strong enough to walk on, whether motion be lost or not. Regarding cold abscesses, I repeat the advice only to open them, when you ])roposc to follow them at some time by an operation ; if this eannot be done, or you do not intend to do it, leave the opening to Nature, even if it should re- quire vears.