105 ORGANIC FERMENTS IN WOUNDS. the coccobacteria die, as they cannot cause decomposition of water or any organized combination. Under these conditions some of these coccobacteria may be thrown into tlie atmosphere and be generally distributed by the evaporation of fluids, so common in nature. Still, when the air be- comes very dry, these vegetations might dry out, die, and become oro-anic but no longer organizable dust ; but such an occurrence is provided against. As in many of the algae of stagnant water, hav- ing similar peculiarities and subject to being dried out, so in some of the elements of coccobacteria a larger quantity of peculiarly con- centrated protoplasm unites to form a glistening sphere with dark contours, which may be distinguished from other coccus, but hardly from fat globules. These little spheres have the peculiarities of fungus-germs and very resistant seeds; the\' may be entirely dried, cooled far below the freezing and warmed above the boiling point, and kejat hermetically closed for a long time, without losing their germinal activity ; hence they are called permanent germs [Dauer- sporen). According to my experience, they form very certainly and not very rarely, under certain circumstances, in bacteria ; but they also occur in coccoglia balls; I cannot state whether some spheres of streptococcus also become permanent germs. These Dauersporen are the dried germs from which we started for development ; they require quiet in or on some fluid or moist body. I have here given you a brief review of the results to which my investigations on this point have led. Bat I must call attention to the fact that botanists nave not yet proved the correctness of my views, and that they are at variance Avith those of most others who have investigated this subject, and who consider eacli of the forms above described as separate plants, and also make numerous species of each kind, especiall}' according to the diseases induced by each. Let me also remind you that most pathologists term these algrn fungi, and often call them all bacteria. It is to these small organisms that Pasteur, and after him Lister, attributes decomposition, at least those forms of it whose products are local and general poisons. If we could prevent their entrance into the wound or its secretions, according to this view, there would be no decomposition of the secretions, even if some of them did re- main in the wound. With this idea. Lister writes a number of rules to be followed in the operation and dressing of the wound, all aim- ing at the destruction of the germs of coccobacteria which mierht roach the wound through the hands of the operator and assistantror the air. After the operator and assistants, before each operation or dressing, have carefully washed with soap and water, they dip their