511 TUMOR ALBUS, pecially in adults otherwise healthy; there may be extensive destruc- tion of the cartilages and bones, with the consecutive dislocations al- ready mentioned under caries, without a drop of pus. If, in such a case of so-called caries sicca, you examine the granulations in the joint and bone, you will find them firmer than usual, and occasionally of almost cartilaginous consistence, like granulations that are about to atrophy or cicatrize; indeed, they do partly atrophy, but the pro- liferation often goes on again, and the bone is destroyed; the pro- cess is thus analogous to cirrhosis. Hence suppuration is by no means a measure fot the extension of the process in the bone; on the con- trary, the more luxurious the proliferation of the granulations, the more extensive the destruction. The dislocation of the bones, the deformity of the joint, is the most important measure of the extent of the changes in the bones and ligaments; if in a case of diseased knee the leg begins to rotate outwardly, and the tibia to shove backward, there is certainly destruction of part of the bone, and of a large part of the ligaments of the joint. In many cases fungous inflammation of the joint is accompanied by suppuration ; the pus is produced either by the granulations, or else forms on the surface of the syno- \dal sac which is not much diseased; sometimes in the same sac there is a subacute synovitis, while another part of the sac remains intact, and still another is completely degenerated; the knee and el- bow joints are especially liable to these circumscribed separate dis- eases of individual synovial sacs, which only communicate with the cavity of the joint by small openings. These suppurations are usu- ally accompanied by acute exacerbations of pain and fever, especially when the abscess opens externally, and synovial sacs, which have pre- viously participated little in the inflammation, suddenly become acutely or subacutely diseased. An early profuse suppuration of a joint is sometimes an evidence of the previously slight degeneration of the synovial membrane, as most pus is given out by serous mem- branes in the stage of purulent catarrh. The pus from the synovial granulations is usually of slight amount, and of serous or mucous con- sistence. The symptoms may be dift’erent, if, as often happens, there be also suppuration in the cellular tissue around the joint, and periarticular abscesses (which, indeed, may occur without disease of the joints) accompany the fungous inflammation of the joints. All of these suppurations are important, from the fact that they impair the general health, partly by the loss of juices, partly by the fever. Lastly, we must give some attention to the vital condition of the inflammatory neoplasia. The vitality, the luxuriance of growth, and the future fate of the chronic inflammatory new formations, greatly de- pend, as you already know, on the general constitutional condition of