41 GAPING OF THE WOUND. bloody urine, and other symptoms, following this operation, show that it has a very decided influence on the physiological action of the organism. As this operation has always been performed in vain by myself and my assistants, I am much less in favor of it than formerly, when I onlv knew it from the accounts of others. I cannot here enter on the treatment of the later results of con- siderable hmmorrhages; it will be evident to you that, in general, the chronic effects, the deficient formation of, new blood, must be com- bated by strengthening and nourishing diet and medicines. LECTURE IV. Gaj>lng of tlie Wound.—Union Try Plaster.—Suture ; Interrupted Suture; Twisted Su- ture.—External Changes perceptible in the United Wound.—Healing by First In- tention. After entirely arresting the hEemorrhage from a wound, cleaning its surface with cold water, and satisfying yourself of its depth, and of the character of the parts divided, in doing which you must notice whether a joint, or one of the cavities of the body, has been opened, a large nerve divided, or a bone exposed or injured, etc., you will turn your attention to the third S3anptom in the fresh wound, that is, its gaping. On division skin, fascia, and nerves will separate, partly from their own elasticity, partly because they are attached to the mus- cles, which, from their contractility, shrink together immediately after being divided, and whose cut surfaces, consequently, especially in transverse wounds, are more or less separated. At first we shall consider only those incised Avounds where there has been no loss of substance, but only a simple division of the soft parts. For such a wound to heal quickly, it is desirable that the two edges should be brought exactly together, as they were before the injury; to accomplish this, we make use of strips of adhesive plaster or of sutures. In wounds where the cutis is scarcely divided, as so often happens in the common incised wounds of the fingers, we may use isinglass- plrxster with advantage. It consists of a solution of ichthyocolla in water, mixed with a little spirits of wine, painted over a thin, firm silk stuff or paper; the back is often painted with tincture of benzoin, which gives the plaster a pleasant odor. As the plaster readilj loos