IXTUODUCTION. 10 Ill again taking up the thread of the historical development of surgery, as we enter the period of “ Renaissance ” in the sixteenth century, vre must first think of the great change which then took place in almost all sciences and arts, on account of the Reformation, the discovery of printing, and the awakening spirit of criticism. Obser- vation of Nature began to reassume its proper position and gradually but slowly to free itself from the fetters of the schools; investigation after truth again assumed its claims to being the only true way to knowledge—the Hippocratic spirit was again awakened. It was chiefly the new investigations, we might almost say the rediscovery, of anatomy and the subsequent restless progress of this branch, that levelled the road. Vesal (1513-1564:), Falopia (1523-1562), and Eus- tachio (fl579), were the founders of our present anatomy ; their names, like those of many others, are known to you from the appellations of certain parts of the body. The celebrated Bomhastus Theophrastus Paracelsus (1493-1554) was among the first to criticise the prevailing Galenical and Arabic systems, and to claim obsen^ation as the chief source of medical knowledge. Finally, when 'William Harvey (1578-1658) discovered the circulation of the blood, and Aselli (1581- 1626) discovered the lymphatic vessels, the old anatomy and physiol- ogy were obliged to give place to modern science, which thence grad- ually progressed to our times. Even then it Avas a long time before practical medicine escaped in the same way fi-om philosophic thral- dom. System was founded on system, and the theory of medicine constantly varied to correspond to the prevailing philosophy. We may claim that it was not till pathological anatomy made its great ad- vances in the present century that practical medicine acquired the firm anatomico-physiological foundation on which the whole structure now moves, and which forms a strong protection against all philosoph- ical medical systems. Even this anatomical direction, however, may be pushed too far and too exclusively. We shall speak of this hereafter Now Ave Avill turn our attention to the scientific development of surgery from the sixteenth century to our times. It is an interesting feature of that time that the adA’ance of practi- cal surgery depended more on the surgical societies than on the learned professors of the universities. German surgeons had to seek their knoAvledge mostly in foreign universities, but part ot it the} worked out for themselves independently : Heinrich von Pfolsprundt, a German friar (born the beginning of the fifteenth century), Hieron- ymus Brunschwig (born 1430), Hans von 6rersr?o?y (about 1520), and Felix Wilrtz (fl576), surgeons at Basel, are first among these. e have writings of all of them; Felix WiXrtz seems to me the most original of them; he had a sharp, critical mind. Fahry von Ihlden