599 GENEliAL REMARKS ABOUT TUMORS. and with which we became acquainted in inflammatory new forma- tions. Until within a few years I believed that these young cells were actually as indifl'erent as the primary segmentation-globules of the egg [vitelline spheres of Dalto'ix\, i. e., that any tissue might finally develop from them ; and more especially I thought that not only all forms of connective-tissue substances (connective tissue, cartilage, bone), vessels, and nerves, but also epithelial tissues, glands, etc., could proceed from the derivatives of the connective- tissue cells. Against this still prevalent view Thiersch, in an excel- lent work on “ epithelial cancer,” has produced such proofs that I must entirely agree with him. As I propose returning to this point hereafter, when treating of cysts, glandular tumors, and epithelial cancers, I shall here merely point out the general outlines of m}- views. From the account of development you know that the body of the young embryo very early shows three different layers, so- called germ-layers. As soon as the division of the cellular embrj’o- nal elements into the three germ-layers is accomplished, all observers agree that each of these three germ-layers produces only a certain series of tissues. From the horny layer are formed the nerve-sys- tem, the epidermis, and their derivatives, the cutaneous glands, the sexual glands, the labyrinth of the ear, the lens; from the middle germ-layer are formed the connective substance, the muscles (?), the vascular system, the lymphatic glands, the .spleen, the peripheral nerves (?); from the inferior or glandular layer are formed the epi- thelium of the intestinal canal, that of the lungs (?), all the secret- ing elements of the liver, pancreas, kidneys, etc. This is one of nature’s laws, for whose discovery we are greatly indebted to JR,e- maJc, Reichert, Kolliher, Heis, Waldeyer, and others, and which may probably be carried back into the composition of the ovum. In the whole subsequent course of development a derivative of one germ-layer never develops a tissue which was originally formed from another ; in other words, if the division of the cellular embryo- nal plan has advanced to the three germ-layers, there are no more wholly indifferent cells, but all newly-formed cells develojied from previous ones can only develoii to tissues lying within the territory of the germ-layer whence they originate ; cells originating from true genuine epithelium can never produce connective tissue, and true epithelium or glands can never come from the derivatives of connective-tissue cells. There is no reason for supposing that the natural law would be annulled if the cellular elements of the com- plete organism were excited to production by any irritation ; the young brood can only develop to certain prescribed types of tissue, which depend on the embryonal origin of the mother-cells. When