TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 374 evacuated; a few hours later the patient has a severe chill, then drj burning heat, and, lastly, profuse sweating. The appearance of the wound improves somewhat; but this does not last long ; we soon no- tice a new abscess near the wound, but rather behind it in the calf; there is another chill; more counter-openings are required at different spots to give exit to the pus, which forms in quantities. The left leg is the injured one; some morning the patient complains of great pain in the right knee-joint, which is somewhat swollen, and is painful on every motion. The nights are sleepless, the patient eats very little, drinks a great deal, and becomes much debilitated; he emaciates, especially in the face, the color of the skin changes to yellowish, the chills recur; the patient then begins to complain of pressure on the chest; he coughs some, but raises little sputum; on examining the chest, you find a moderate pleuritic exudation on one or both sides, from which, however, the patient does not suffer much, but he com- plains more of the right knee, which is now much swollen, and con- tains a great deal of fluid; as the patient sweats a great deal, the urine becomes very concentrated, and is occasionally albuminous. Finally, there is decubitus, but the patient does not complain much of this; he lies quietly, half insensible, muttering to himself. This would be about the twentieth day after the injury ; the wound is dry, the patient looks miserable; the face, and especially the neck, is ema- ciated, the skin is very jaundiced, the eyes dull, the trembling tongue is perfectly dry, the skin cool, the temperature low, and only elevated at evening, the pulse small and frequent, the respirations slow, the breath of a peculiar cadaveric odor ; the patient becomes entirely un- conscious, and may, perhaps, remain so for twenty-four hours before death. On autopsy^ you find nothing pathological in the skull; heart and pericardium normal; in the right auricle and ventricle a firmly-coagulated, white, fibrinous clot; both pleural cavities are filled with a cloudy, serous fluid; the surfaces of the lungs are covered with a net-like layer of jaundiced fibrine; on tearing this off, under it, in the substance of the lung, but particularly on its surface, you find quite firm nodules, as large as a bean or chestnut. These are found chiefly in the lower lobes ; sections through them show that they are mostly abscesses. The parenchyma of the lungs, somewhat condensed, forms the capsule of a cavity, which is filled with pus and disintegrated lung-tissue; others of these nodules are bloody red, and, on section, the cut surface is somewhat granular, and in their midst there are oc- casional spots of pus of various size, and it is evident fhat they change to abscesses. They are the red infarctions^ terminating in abscesses, with which you are already acquainted. Some of these abscesses lie so near the surface that they implicate the pleura, and