153 ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. have the peculiarity in some pathological processes of forming ragged proliferations, whose basis is connective tissue and ultimately ves- sels, and whose covering consists of multiplied and enlarged endo- thelial cells. Well-developed shreds of synovial membrane in arthri- tis deformans, shreddy proliferations of the pericardium and endo- cardium on the valves, the plexus choroidei, and the Pacchionian granulations of the cerebral membranes, are the types of this neo- plasia. The tumors which to a certain extent may be regarded as the highest stages of development of this variety are only found in the membranes of the brain or the nerve-sheaths directly proceeding from it ; some of these neoplasite have a villous character, at least exteriorly; others form compact masses, the dendritic tissues grow- ing through each other. These tumors form thus: A circumscribed cellular infiltration {a, Fig. 139 a) begins in the adventitious sheath of the vessel, which gives rise to clubbed, shreddy outgrowths, which soon become hya- line or filamentary connective tissue, and then develop a cavity in them, which gradually unites with the caliber of the vessel (&). Part of the cells assume epithelial forms and envelop the above club- shaped neoplasia3 (c). Between these cell-masses we find spheres of flat compressed cells (e), which in part become dry and under some conditions even calcareous. Whether pearl-tumors {Virchoic) starting from the cerebral membranes, which are composed of jDearly non-vascular nodules from the size of a millet-seed to a pea, are com- posed of such endothelial spheres, or are true epithelial formations, I shall not attempt to decide, as I have made no personal observa- tions, and there has been nothing published on this point recently. According to 'Virchovi's investigations, the pearls of the intracranial tumors are composed of connective-tissue cells; hence they should be classed with sarcomata. Thymus pearls are the physiological examples of this form, which from their non-vascularity also have an analogy to tubercle. Another tumor described by Virchow and renamed belongs here, the psammona. This also has only been observed in the brain or in the orbit, and is related to the villous and to plexiform sarcoma, which we shall soon describe. This variety of tumor is characterized by the occurrence of calcareous spheres, having the form of the con- crements which are found in the pineal gland, and are there known as brain-sand (~aami6g, sand). Like the thymus pearls, these are mostly connected with the vessels, and are probably mostly calcified endothelial pearls; but Virchow says that direct calcification of connective tissue may lead to the same forms. (A.) Plexiform (cancroid, adenoid) sarcoma. This form of sar-