TRAUMATIC AXD INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 342 does not entirely prevent the spread of the disease, as the contagion may possibly be carried by the air from a diseased to a healthy wound, still experience shows that it interferes with the spread, fn some epidemics in military hospitals it was necessary entirely to va- cate certain localities. Locally we should apply strong chlorine- water, or spirits of camphor or turpentine, to these wounds. Some- times painting the part every two hours with tincture of iodine acts well, or solution of acetate of alumina applied on a compress till the wound becomes clean; but the solution should not be too concen- trated, and its application should be stopped when the process ceases to spread. If this also prove ineffectual, it has been recommended to burn the wound down to the healthy tissue, so that the slough shall remain attached six or eight days, as in a healthy w’ound. 1 find it just as efiectual to cauterize the wound with fuming nitric acid or carbolic acid, but these cauterizations also should extend to the healthy borders of the wound, and be repeated till the slough remains adherent. The general treatment should be strennthenino- or even stimulant. The fever occurring in hosjjital gangrene is due to reabsorption of putrid matter, and does not differ from other forms of putrid fever. The pulpous phagedenic gangrene above described is especially apt to occur in wounds of the mouth or urinary bladder, even with- out any external source of infection. I mention this here because these diseases are doubtless allied to phagedenic diphtheria, al- though, from their limitation to certain parts of the body, they more properly belong to special surgery and the clinic. After extirpation of large portions of the tongue and resection of the lower jaw, T have sometimes seen a rapid pulpy breaking down of the wound fol- loAving hard and extensive infiltration of the cellular tissue ; here there is a combination of diphtheritic phlegmon with phagedenic ulceration. Most of these cases ended fatally from septica?mia ; others recovered after the whole cellular tissue had become necrosed and been thrown off by free suppuration. Although mucus and saliva coming in contact with these wounds may have no plilogogc- nous or septic qualities of their own, putrid ferments may be mixed with them, such as are occasionally found in the coating on the gums and between the teeth of patients who do not clean their mouths ha- bitually, or neglect this on account of painful ulcers in the mouth. So this ferment will be carried to wounds in the mouth by the mu- cus and saliva, thus justifying the name mucous salivary cUphtheria. This disease only threatens the patient during the first five da^'s after operation ; only recent Avounds in the mouth are infected by the ferment in question; if good granulations have once developed.