214 OPEN FPiACTURES AND SUPPURATION OF BONE. An open fracture may unite in various ways. The skin-wound, as well as the deeper parts, occasionally heals by first intention ; this is the most favorable case. Under modern treatment this occurs more fre- quently than formerly, although, from the nature of the case, the re- quirements for this result are not often present. Far more frequently (and this is also favorable) the wound only suppurates superficially, and not between and around the ends of the bone, but union of the bone takes place as in simjile subcutaneous fracture. The cases where the wound only affects the skin, and does not communicate with the fracture, should not be counted among complicated fractures; but the limits are difficult to trace. The process of cure must of course differ greatly from the above, if the skin-wound be large, the soft parts greatly contused, so that fragments are detached from them; if the suppuration extends deep between the muscles and around the bone, and even into its medullary cavity; if the fragments are bathed in pus; if half-loose pieces of bone lie about, and longitudinal fissures extend into the bone. The actiUty of the soft parts will remain essentially the same as in subcu- taneous fractures, excejot that in this case the inflammatory new forma- tion does not directly become callus, but, after detachment of the crushed, necrosed shreds of tissue, granulations and pus are formed, the former of which are transformed to ossifying callus. Tlie form of the callus will not be much changed, except that, where the open suppurating wound exists for a long time, there will be a gap in the callus-ring till it is closed by the after-growth of deep ossif^’iug granu- lations. Hence the process will terminate far more slowly than in subcutaneous fracture, just as healing by suppuration takes longer than healing by first intention. Now, what becomes of the ends of the fragments which, parf ly or entirely denuded of periosteum, lie in the wound ? What becomes of pieces detached from the bone, and only loosely attached to the soft parts ? As in the soft parts, so here one of two things may happen, according as the ends of the bone are living or dead. In the first and most frequent case, granulations grow directly from the surface of the bone. In the latter, as in the soft jiarts, plastic actmty in the bone occurs on the boiders of the living; interstitial granulations and pus form ; the bone melts away ; the dead end of the bone, the sequestrum^ falls off. The extent to which this process of detachment goes natu- rally depends on the extent to which the bone is dead, or, expressed more physiologically, on the extent to which the circulation has ceased from stojDpage of the vessels. This extent may vary greatly : it may possibly extend only to the superficial layer of the injured bone: and, since the whole jirocess is called necrosis, this superticirl detachment