482 CUROXIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. fractures: when the broken ends or nearly loose fragments of bone become necrosed, the formation of new bone in the vicinity may not only induce future firmness in the bone, but the sequestrum may be entirely enclosed by the new bone, and it may be necessary to remove it by operation. But this formation of new bone is most important in total necrosis of entire diaphyses; it is intended to replace the bone which dies. This very important process, which is so wonder- fully accomplished by Nature, we must no\v study more carefully. Let us suppose an acute total periostitis and osteomyelitis wth ne- crosis of the diaphysis of the tibia. The entire periosteum and me- dulla have suppurated ; within the bone the pus falls to detritus, or actually putrefies ; the pus from the periosteum has perforated the skin at various points, the circulation in the diaphysis has ceased; the entire diaphysis is a sequestrum. A longitudinal section gives the following appearance (Fig. 80) : Fiq. so. Diagram of total necrosie of the diaphysis of a hollow bone. a, the sequestered bone; b b, its upper and lower extremities; c c, pus surrounding the sequestrum; d c?, where it has perforated exter- nally. The darkest layer, e e, is the wall of a large abscess-cavity, which consists of tissue (connective or tendinous tissue, or even of muscle), infiltrated with plastic matter, and on its inner surface, which lies next the sequestrum, like any abscess-cavity, it has a granulation- layer, which constantly produces new pus. I will mention at once that this view, as in acute periostitis, differs from that of other sur- geons and anatomists, because they suppose the tendinous portion of the periosteum is lifted, like a vesicle, from the bone by the pus; this is incorrect, because the tendinous portion of the periosteum iS not sufficiently elastic to be quickly elevated like an epidermis \ esicle, and because this elevation would fail to occur at those points where there is no periosteum, i. e., where tendons are attached to the bone; but the latter is not the case. The inflammation and suppunition