SIMPLE FRACTURE OF BONES. 19G m groups, or from looping of the vessels, AA'hich press against the cells first come between the connective tissue in the Haversian canals; should this cell-infiltration be very rapid, it would entirely compress the blood-vessels, and cause the death of the bone, a process which we shall hereafter learn. ]3ut, if the cell-increase in these canals goes on slowly, their walls are gradually absorbed, as it Avould appear, by the inflammatory new formation itself; the canals are dilated, the cells fill them, and at the same time the blood-vessels increase by forming loops. From the observations of Cohnheim, we must suppose that in inflammation of bone, also, the young cells in the Haversian canals are not newly formed, but are white blood-cells escaped from the ves- sels. This has no eifect on the subsequent course. Now, let us turn to the changes of form that Ave observe in the osseous tissue. As the connective tissue of the osseous canals is con- tinuous, both with the periosteum and medulla, the cell-infiltration into the bone, periosteum, and medulla, is also continuous. The cause of the atrophy of bone along the walls of the Haversian canals, Avhich takes place in this, as in most other neAV formations in the bone, is difficult to explain; the disappearance of the connective tissue and muscular substance, as well as of other soft structures, when the in- flammatory neAV formation occurs in them, is less strange ; but it is truly remarkable that hard bony substance should thus be dissolved. This process might be represented by the folloAving diagram (Fig. 49): Fio. 49. / Dia"rnm of inflammatory new formation in the Haversian canals, a, aurface; b b, Havorsian 'canaU, dilated, filled with cells and now vessels; c, poriosteum. Magnified 400 diameters. You see that the dilatation of the osseous canals is not regular, but of uneven AA'idths; the bone looks as if gnaAA’cd out; this is not necessarily so, the atrophy of the bone may be more regular; accord- ing to my idea, these irregularities result from the collection of cells