HEALING BY THIRD INTENTION. 107 coccobactel-ia vegetations have been found in completely closed, deeply-seated points of inflammation, which never communicated with the air, can only be explained in the way above mentioned. Apart from the fact that Lister's dressing is expensive if followed out in all its details, and that more or less severe poisoning is often caused by the annoying dermatitis induced by the carbolic acid, this incongruence of theory and practice has led to the employment of more and more dilute solutions of carbolic acid, and its replacement by other antiseptic and less irritating acids and salts (salicylic acid, Thiersch; sulphide of sodium, Minich). Various changes have also been made in the mode of applying the dressing ( Volkmann, Barcleleben) ; the spray has been entirely omitted, and in its place after the operation the wound has been washed with a more concen- trated antiseptic solution, etc., etc. Thus Lister's dressing has been variously modified, and from each modification the same favor- able results have been obtained as from the original dressing. This confirms me in the oj^inion formed when this method Avas Krst de- scribed, and which I have already stated, that the scrupulous clean- liness and the careful removal of secretion from the wound is the most important part of if, and that it is chiefly popular among sur- geons who formerly jaaid less attention to these points, and left the dressings to the dirty hands of nurses or to careless students or young physicians, while now the dressings are all apj^lied according to definite principles of cleanliness. Moreover, the constantly spreading and more energetically preached doctrine of local infection from wounds, of which we shall treat hereafter, has led to a rec- ognition of the necessity of a rational treatment of wounds, and has contributed essentially to opening the way for the open treat- ment of wounds—to Lister's method and antiseptic lotions. There is still another mode of adhesion of the edges of Avounds, Avhich consists in the direct union of tAvo adjacent granulating sur- faces. This mode of healing, Avhich you may call healing by the third intention, is unfortunately very rare. The reason of this is evident: pus is constantly secreted from the surface of the granulations, and Avhile this goes on the surfaces are only apparently in contact, for there is pus between them. Occasionally, it is true, we ma v, by press- ing the two granulation surfaces together, prevent the further forma- tion of pus, and then the two surfaces may adhere ; we accomplish this by drawing the flaps of the wound firmly together with good adhesive plaster, or by the application of secondary sutures, for Avhich it is well to employ wire. Unfortunately, the attempt to hasten the cure by