TUMORS. 606 cialW in anomalous development of the skeleton and its results (cre- tinism). We may also consider leontiasis and Oriental elephantiasis as chronic miasmatic infections, in which large masses of nodular fibrous tumors form in the skin on different parts of the body; still, I acknowledge that this is disputed territory, and that reasons may be advanced for classing these among the chronic inflammatory diseases, instead of among tumors. As regards local infection^ or the transfer of fixed contagions from without, we know that inflammations of va- rious kinds may be thus induced. By putrid substances only inflam- mations are induced; here I class, also, the so-called “dissecting tubercle,” which I cannot consider as a tumor, because it disappears spontaneously, as soon as new infection ceases to occur. Inflamma- tion is excited by inoculation with pus; the character of the pus determines the specific nature of the inflammation; pus may also ex- cite a constitutional disease, which again may evince itself by multiple localized processes, as in sjqDhilis. Can tumors be induced by inocu- lation with the juices of tumors, or with small portions of them ? This is a disputed point; I consider it possible, but not proved; the difficulty of coming to a decision lies in the fact that it is not allowable to make such. experiments on men. When such experiments often fail on the lower animals, it only shows that tumors from man are not transferable to them; tumors from beasts must be inoculated on beasts of like species; a few such experiments have been made hj Doittrele- pont, in which the inoculations of carcinoma from dogs on dogs had no eftect. At all events, we cannot induce a tumor by inoculating with pus, which again seems to show the specific difference of the products. Perhaps some pathologists may here answer that “ molus- cum contagiosum ” is an example of tumor-juice or constituents of tumors being inoculable on other persons. This fact, which has been proved by Ebert and Virchow, is very interesting; still, the right of moluscum contagiosum, a cystoid secretion-hyperplasia of the sebaceous glands, a sort of large comedones, as well as that of re- tention-cysts geiiera%, to a position among tumors is disputed; and, moreover, the contagiousness of this neojfiasia is still too isolated for us to draw any valuable conclusions from it. The most striking proof of the distinctness of inflammatory products and tumors is offered by observation of the local and general infection, which Ave have innumerable opportunities of making. e have jircAiously said a good deal about progressive and secondary inflammation of acute lymphangitis, ivluch is always secondary (deuteropathic, Vir- chow), of the secondary acute and chronic swellings of the lym- phatic glands in acute and chronic inflammations, especially of the extremities; I then told you that I considered it more prob-