16 INTRODUCTION. side of the patient. General surgery is only one part of general pathology, hence you should study the latter before entering the sur- gical cHnic. First, }^ou should gain a clear understanding of normal histology, at least of its general parts; pathological anatomy and histology should come with general surgery, about the fifth semestre. General surgery, the subject of the present lectures, is a part of general pathology, as we have already stated; but it is nearer to practice than the latter. It eomprises the study of wounds, inflam- mations, and tumors of the external parts of the body, or of those parts that may be handled from without. Special or topographical surgery occupies itself with the surgical diseases of different parts of the body, so that the most different tissues and organs are to be con- sidered according to their location; for instance, while we here treat only of wounds, of their mode of recovery and treatment in general, special surgery treats of wounds of the head, breast, and abdomen, paying special attention to the participation of the skin, bones, and viscera. Were it possible to pursue 4he study of surgery for several years in a large hospital, and could careful clinical consid-r eration of individual cases be carried on continuously with the regular studies, it would probably be unnecessary to treat of special surgery in separate systematic lectures. But, since there are many surgical dis- eases that jserhaps may not occur for years even in a large hospital, but which should be known to the surgeon, the lectures on special surgery are by no means superfluous, if they are short and to the point. During my student days I occasionally heard the remark : “ Why should I go to listen to special surgery and pathology ? I can read them more conveniently in my room.” This may be all true, but un- fortunately it is rarely done, unless in the final semestres, when exam- ination is approaching. This reasoning is false in another respect also: the viva vox of the teacher, as old Langenhech, in Gottingen, used to say (and he had a viva vox in the best sense of the word), the winged word of the teacher is, or should be, more exciting and effective than what is read, and the accompanying demonstrations of diagrams, preparations, experiments, etc., should render the lectures on practical surgery and medicine particularly valuable for you. I attach great value to demonstration in medical instruction, for I know by experience that this land of teaching is most exciting and per- manent. Besides these two sets of lectures on general and special surgery you have to practise operations on the cadaver; this you may post- pone to the last semestres. I always like students to take their course in operations in the sixth or seventh semestres, along with their special surgery, so that I may give them the opportunity of oo-