92 SIMPLE IXCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. nerves would induce increase of the general change of tissue and con- sequent increase of the production of warmth. Tliis hypothesis, wliich is supported hy some facts, such as tlie great difference in febrile irri- tability, and which I formerly maintained, no longer appears to me tenable; it is opposed by the experimental researches of Breuer and ChrobaJc, which prove that fever occurred even when all the nerves were divided, by Avhich there could be any conduction from the periph- eral injury to the nerve-centres; the recent investigations oi Ley den also oppose tliis hypothesis, since they prove that there is no constant re- lation between the loss of nitrogenous material, or consumption, and development of warmth. 3. Since, from the nature of the process, in the inflamed part some of the tissue is destroyed, while some new tissue is formed, it is not improbable that some of the products of this destruction enter the blood, partly through the blood-vessels, partly through the lymph- vessels ; such material acts as a ferment, excites change in the blood, as a consequence of which the entire amount of blood may be Avarmed. We might also admit a more complicated mode of development of warmth, which, by including the nervous system, might in some re- spects be more servdceable theoretically; the blood changed by taking up the product of irritation might prove irritant to the centres of the vaso-motor nerves, and thus induce increased production of warmth. The decision between these different hypotheses is diflScult; they are all about equally justifiable, and all have the common factor of pollu- tion of the blood by material from the seat of inflammation or the Avound, which is recognized as having an effect on the production of heat; these substances must have the effect of exciting fever (a pyrogenous action). This Avas to be proved. It has been proved by experiments of 0. Weher and myself, which I can notice only briefly here. In most open wounds, especially in contused wounds, shreds of tissue are always decomposed; in many idiopathic inflam- mations, the circulation is arrested at different points in the inflamed tissue, and there is partial decomposition of these dead portions. Decomposing tissue, then, was an object to be examined in regard to its pyrogenous action. If you inject filtered infusions of this substance into the blood of animals, they have high fever, and not unfrequently die Avith symptoms of debility, of somnolence, Avitli coin- cident bloody diarrhoea. The same effect is induced by fresh pus in- jected into the blood; a Aveaker effect folloAvs the employment of juice and pus serum pressed out of the inflamed part, but the secretion from the wound taken during the first forty-eight hours is especially active. Hence the products of decomposition, as Avell as those of new formation, have a pyrogenous action in the blood. Tliese jirod- ucts are of a A-ery complicated and variable nature ; some of the