239 TRAUMATIC ARTICULAR INFLAMMATION. But, unfortunately, the inflammation in and around the joint occa- sionally e.xtends uncontrollably. And, finally, the only thing to be done is to enlarge the wound, to make new openings in various places; we then have complete suppuration and destruction of the synovial sac. All the communicating synovial sacs do not partici- pate equally in the suppuration; on tapping, you may at one part of the joint evacuate serum, at another, pus; this is probably because the swollen synovial membrane closes, like a valve, the openings of communication, which are often narrow between the cavity of the joint and the adjacent sacs. In bad cases the suppuration extends to the soft parts of the thigh and leg, the patient is thus exhausted more and more as he also is by severe fever and chills, his cheeks sink, and we hesitate about our treatment. Recovery is possible, even in this stage; the acute suppurations gradually cease, and the disease becomes chronic, and after several months may terminate in complete stiffness of the joint. In many cases we strive in vain to keep up the strength of the patient with tonics and strengthening remedies, but he dies of exhaustion as a result of new suppurations which even occur at points having no connection with the wound. This unfortunate termination we can only prevent by amputaion; this remedy which is so deplorable, but which in these cases frequently saves life. The difficulty here lies in the choice of the proper time for operating. Observations at the bedside, which you will make in the clinic, must teach you how much you may trust the strength of your patient in individual cases, so that you may determine when the last moment for the operation has come. In hospital, you will always see many such cases die of purulent infection (pyasmia), with or without amputation. Since, in describing traumatic articular inflammation, we held to the presentation of a special case, and let the treatment follow the symptoms, we must add a few remarks about the pathological anafi omy, as it has been accurately studied on the cadaver, on amputated limbs, and by aid of experiments. The disease affects chiefly, and at first exclusively, the synovial membrane. If this has not been accu- rately observed, as I know from my own experience, we are apt to consider it too thin and delicate. But, by examining a knee-joint, you may readily satisfy yourselves that at most ijoints it is thicker and more succulent than tlie pleura and peritonaeum, and is separated from tne fibrous articular capsule by a loose subserous cellular tissue, which sometimes contains much fat, so that you may detach the syno- vial sac of a knee joint from the cartilage as an independent mem- brane. As is well known, it consists of connective tissue, has on its surface pavement epithelium, and contains a considerable capillary net-