FORMATION OF THROMBUS. 121 more firm and homogeneous, and even more difficult to separate than previously; a laige number of spindle-shaped cells with oval nuclei, showing distinct divisions, appear. From the above, it appears that even quite early a number of living cells appear in the blood- clot, whose fui-ther development will be seen from what follows. Since we obtaiji a more accurate understanding of the changes in the thrombus and its relation to the arterial walls, by making transverse sections of the thrombosed artery, we shall proceed to do this. Tliis preparation shows a transverse section of a recent throm- bus in a small artery; within, the delicate mosaic formed by the crowded red blood-corpuscles, among them a Fig. 2S. few round white blood-cells (-Cvliich have been rendered visible by car- mine) ; next comes the tunica iiitima, laid together in regular folds, in which the blood-clot clings; then the tunica muscularis; then the tunica adventitia, Avith the net-work of elas- tic fibres ; to the right some adherent loose connective tissue. The next preparation (Fig. 26) is the transverse section of a human artery, closed with a thrombus for six days; we see no red blood-cells; the white ones are greatly increased, mostly round; but, in the tunica adventitia and surrounding connective tissue, there has already been some cell infiltration. If we now examine a ten-day-old thrombus from a large muscular artery of the thigh of a man (Fig. 27, a), we find it already containing numerous spindle-cells, which are partly arranged in strim (subsequently vessels) ; the intercellular substance is filamentary, here rendered transparent by acetic acid. Finally, there is also formation of blood-vessels in the organized thrombus, as you see in the following preparations (Figs. 28 and 29). It has been established, by the investigations of 0. TFeSe?*, that the vessels of the thrombus communicate partly with the calibre of the thrombosed vessel, partly with its vasa vasorum. The process of healing in transversely-divided veins appears at the first glance to be much simpler than in the arteries; even in the large veins of the extremities, the divided ends fall together, and ap- pear to heal at once, as soon as the blood has been obstructed at the next valve above ; at these valves clots form, and they are often much larger than is desirable; this formation of clots extending toward the heart will hereafter occupy our earnest attention. But I have of late Transverse section of a fresh thrombus. Mu^'nilied 300 diameters.