399 CARBUNCLE. But we may doubt if it cannot exist without bacteria, as it is asserted that with blood from carbunculous animals, which contains no bac- teria, other animals may be infected. In Leube's cases, already men- tioned, countless cocci and bacteria wei-e found in the intestinal mu- cous membrane fmykosis intestinalis, Siihl), Many assert that the bacteria found in carbuncle differ from those resulting from decompo- sition. Bollinger asserts that small cocci (bacteria germs) exist in the blood of every animal affected with carbuncle, but that from their small size they often escape observation; he considers their veo-etation as the essential cause of the disease, which is, however, favored by the species of the animal, its nourishment, and the char- acter of the soil and stabling. My own observations have shown me that the bacteria of carbuncle, like those in the blood and peri- cardium of decomposing bodies, belong to the meso- and megalo-bac- teria ; and also that cocci and even permanent germs (Dauersporen) often form in them. On inoculating blood containing bacteria in the cornea, of rabbits, Frisch saw stellate figures form, evidently com- posed of bacteria, which developed enormously and led to suppura- tion of the eyeball, but never to general infection or the death of the animal. The inoculations of blood from horses and cattle which had shortly before died of carbuncle on rabbits. Guinea-pigs, sheep, and dogs, in the cases I witnessed, proved more certain in proportion to the certaint}’" of the presence of bacteria; and uncertain results oc- curred, as they did in the cases of other observers. We must also mention the mouth and hoof disease of cattle, as recent observations have proved its transfer to man. In cattle the disease consists in the formation of vesicles and pustules on the mucous membrane of the mouth, at the roots of the hoof, and on the udders of cows ; these heal spontaneously in from five to fourteen days ; and although the animals often emaciate greatly, only the young ones ever die. The disease seems to spread ejiidemically through the secretion from the pustules, the milk, and perhaps also through an evanescent contagion. The transfer of the alTection to man results from contact of abrasions of the skin with the matter from the pustules, or from free use of uncooked milk of the diseased animals. If the latter has been the mode of origin, vesicles and pus- tules form in the mouth and on the hands and feet, as in the cattle. Catarrh of the throat and stomach may be added. The treatment consists in frequently rinsing the mouth, painting the vesicles with solution of borax (five parts to thirty of honey), and touching the pu.stules on hands and feet with nitrate of silver. Cooking destroys the infecting matter in the milk. It is not improbable that some aphthous diseases of small children arise from infection by milk thus