TUMORS. 650 as well as the alveolar sarcomata of which we shall soon treat, often so much resemble carcinomata in their structure that they are very difficult to distinguish. According to recent observations, especially those of iSattler, what I formerly described as cylindroma, and erro- neously classed with adenoma, also belongs in this class. (f?.) Net-celled sarcoma. Mucous sarcoma. (Gelatinous sarcoma of JRoJcitansJcy.) For the offshoots from cells to develop well and be distinctly seen, there must be considerable soft intercellular substance present. Hence sarcomata with gelatinous mucous intercellular sub- stance, which contain any stellate cells, are the most beautiful. Hut this is not always the case. There are also granulation-sarcomata, that have a claim to be regarded as mucous or gelatinous tumors. If we should wish to class the tumors from the above groups, when they appear gelatinous, together because they contain much mucous we may call them myxomata (Virchow), or retain their old name, collonema (Jl Milller). Virchow's true mucous tissue (Fig. 135) undoubtedly belongs to the developmental series of the connec- tive tissues; occasionally it also occurs in mucous granulations. But frequently also we find spindle-cells and round cells in myxoma, and, if there be at the same time any developed cartilage, the mucous tis- sue may be regarded as young or softened eartilage-tissue, which be- comes the more probable if a myoxoma contains honey-comb-like septa such as are found in chondroma. We may use the terms myxosarcoma, myxochondroma, etc. (e.) Alveolar sarcoma. This rare form of tumor (occurring in the cutis, muscle, and bone) is very difficult to characterize anatomically; from the size and arrangement of its cells, it may in spots so much resemble carcinoma, that I would not trust myself to decide correctly on everf piece of such a tumor placed under the microscope. The cells of these elements are much larger than lymph-cells, about the size of cartilage-cells, or of moderately large flat epithelium, and usually have one or more large nuclei, with glistening nucleoli. The cells are embedded in a fibrous, or more rarely homogeneous, slightly- developed intercellular substance of exquisite alveolar typoj in such a way that they lie together separately, or more rarely in groups (Figs. 138 and 139). They are most intimately connected with the fibres, and are diflicult to detach from the fibrous mass. The latter two pe- culiarities arc important for the histological diagnosis of “ sarcoma,” for they show the large cells are connective-tissue cells, not epithelial cells, as in true carcinoma-tissue. Occasionally the cellular elements of these sarcomata lie in immediate contact, without any intercellular substance; the resemblance to epithelial carcinoma may prove de- ceptive. Virchow has d.escribed and deduced this form from soft warts of the cutis.