662 TUMOas. 9.—LYMPHOMATA. These iieoplasi00 are very difficult to define accurately. According to the mode of develojDment we may assume a secondary inflammatory swelling of ilie lymph-glands from infection, and an idiopathic hyper- plasia. In diseases from the most varied causes, the lymjffiatic glands almost always present a similar appearance ; they are enlarged, more succulent, firmer than normal. The microscopic examination of lym- phoma shows the following appearances, if made from a hardened, jmoperly-imepared specimen : All the cellular elements are multiplied and enlarged ; the lymph-cells in the alveoli, the connective-tissue cells of the trabeculm, the capsules of the alveoli and the net-work; thns, the structure of the gland is gradually lost entirely; the whole organ becomes a mass of lymjah-cells, although a fine net-work is gen- erally preserved, into which the hard connective tissue of the capsule and of the trabeculm is also transformed, while the blood-vessels are preserved, and their walls greatlj'- thickened (Fig. 148); the cellular infiltration may be so great, that an exact distinction between lyni- johoina and glio-sarcoma (Fig. 148) may be impossible at some points. Usually there are glands of various sizes, and we find the large ones of the same structure as the smaller. Neither the macroscoj^ic nor microscopic ai^pearances will determine exactly the causes of the hyperplasia, whether it be idiopathic or due to chronic inflammation; we can only say, in general, that glands much enlarged by chronic inflammation more frequently contain abscesses and caseous foci Than those which are apparently idiopathic hyperplasia. Perhaps I am too conscientious in using the term “ idiojDathic disease of the l3mphatic glands ; ” for in many of these cases we can discover no peripheral irri- tation, although many things speak in favor of the disease of the glands being secondary; it is possible that slight, temporary inflam- mations have existed, that have excited disease of the glands, and have disappeared before the aflection of the glands has shown itself. We formerly spoke of a similar secondary jjlastic process in the lym- phatic glands, after the primary peripheral irritation had ceased, as being a chief symptom of scrofula; hence we might term lymphomata as tjqiical scrofulous tumors (scrofulous sarcoma, von Ziangenbeek), Let us study them further, anatomically and clinicall3^ For a long time the glands preserve their kidne}--sliape till finally, as they continue to grow, this also is lost, and the adjacent glandular tumors unite to form a lobulated mass. To the naked eye, the extir- pated tumors ajipear roundish, oval, or kidney-shajicd; on section, they are of a light, gra^dsh-^'ollow color, which, on exposure, changes