FIBROMATA. 619 fibroma) belong to this class. These tumors are apt to occur toward the end of middle life; in women, we not unfrequently find them hanging from the labia majora; as growths on this part are concealed as long as possible, they are usually quite large when first seen by the surgeon. Virchow terms the disease, in which these multiple, soft, fibrous tumors develop, leontiasis / in the course of time they are occasionally accompanied by general disturbances of nutrition. Al- though these tumors are not infectious, in the meaning we have at- tributed to this word, they occasionally lead to a cachectic state, and in the course of years to death by marasmus. There is also a relation- ship between this disease and Oriental elephantiasis, although by this name we mean a more nodular, but at the same time rather diffuse hypertrophy of the cutis of certain parts of the body (labia pudenda, scrotum, legs), which runs its course with repeated erysipelas. There would be less misunderstanding if these developments were briefly termed hypertrophy of the skin or pachydermata. Elephantiasis Groscorum is a similar disease as far as regards the cutaneous thick- ening, but it is strongly endemic, and is accompanied by some ner- vous symptoms; it occurs in Greece, Asia, and Norway (under the name of Spedalsked), and, after inducing long suffering, usually proves fatal. b. Firm fibromata^ fibroid^ des- moid tumors appear to the naked eye to be composed of very firm, interlaced fibrous tissue, e always very hard, and of roundish or tuberous form; their cut surface is pure white, or pale reddish; to the naked eye many of them show on their cut surface a very peculiar, regular layering, and a concentric arrangement of filaments around distinct axes (see Fig. 115); according to my investi- gallons, this results from the fibrous »»*” formation taking jilace around nerves and vessels, the latter being consequently embedded in the midst of tlie fibrous layers ; frequently the nerves arc thus destroyed. With the c.xternal peculiarities just described, the histological ap- pearance renders it difficult to classify these tumors. There can be no doubt that those of Uiem which consist chiefly of connective tissue such as old uterine fibroids, should be called fibromata; but the younger tumors of this variety, with the same appearance and con