CHONDROMATA. 629 of disease in the immediate vicinity, partly from transformation of the adjacent tissue into cartilage (local infection). Among the anatomical metamorphoses, the pulpy and mucous softening, and the ossification of individual parts, have been already mentioned; the former causes mucous cysts in these tumors, which give a feeling of partial fluctua- tion to the otherwise hard chondroma. It is imaginable that, with complete ossification of the chondroma, the tumor would cease to grow; and this has been seen in some cases, although rarely. In large chondromata superficial ulceration is apt to occur, especially if the skin is very tense, or from occasional traumatic irritation, but it is of no great importance. Ulcerative central softening and perforation outwardly are rare, but once I saw it occur in a typical chondroma, the size of a large apple, on the sheath of one of the tendons of the foot. Virchow calls the ossifying cell-layer between the periosteum and growing bone, osteoid cartilage; hence he terms periosteal and ossi- fying tumors, which have a formation similar to this osteoid cartilage, “ osteoid chondromata.” I am doubtful about any one being able to distinguish such tumors, which I have often examined, from periosteal ossifying round-celled or spindle-celled sarcomata; hence I jarefer not separating Virchow's osteoid chondroma from the sarcomata. Occurrence. Cartilage-tumors are particularly apt to develop on the bones. The phalanges of the hand and the metacarpal bones are the most frequent seat of chondromata; much more rarely the analo- gous bones of the foot. On the hand, chondromata are almost alwaj^s multiple ; they even occur in such numbers that scarcely a finger re- mains free from them. The bones next most liable are the femur and pelvis ; here the tumors attain the largest size, and lead to com- plete destruction of these bones. Chondromata are rarer on the bones of the face and skull, but somewhat more frequent on the ribs and scapula. They occasionally, but rarely, develop in the sheaths of the tendons. In the soft parts also, especially in the glands (tes- ticles, ovaries, mammae, sahvary glands, etc.), cartilaginous growths have been observed, sometimes in the shape of fully-developed chon- droma, sometimes as single pieces of cartilage, with a predominance’ of sarcomatous or carcinomatous growth. The development of chondroma is chiefly peculiar to youth ; not that it occurs exactly in children, but shortly before the age of pu- berty. Most chondromata are referable to this age, even if they are first recognized much later in life. The tumors occasionally develop after injury, grow very slowly for twenty or thirty years, and occa- sionally seem to cease growing entirely. I have heard patients as- sert that the tumors had remained unchanged for years, and some ac-