353 PHLEBITIS. out of the vessels vve may imagine that pus-cells developed in the wound thence pass into the lymphatic vessels, wander through the walls of these vessels, and as' bearers of an irritating substance excite perilymphangitis, while the cells, flowing more rapidly in the centre of the vessel, enter the blood, and thus perhaps induce fever before the local disease has attained any considerable extent. The object of treatment in recent cases of lymphangitis is to ob- tain resolution if possible, and to prevent suppuration. The patient should keep the affected limb as quiet as possible; should there be gastric derangement, an emetic is very beneficial. The disease not unfrequently subsides after the purgation and sweating induced by the emetic. Among the local remedies, rubbing the whole limb with mercurial ointment is particularly efficacious; then the arm should be covered warmly so as to maintain an elevated, regular tempera- ture. For this purpose we may employ wadding or moist Avarmth. Should the inflammation increase in spite of this treatment, and dif- fuse redness and swelling occur, suppuration will take place at some spot. This diffuse inflammation is no longer limited to the lymphatic vessels, but the entire subcutaneous tissue participates in it more or less. As soon as fluctuation is distinctly perceived, an opening should be made, and the pus evacuated. Should healing be retarded, it may be hastened by daily warm baths ; these are particularly use- ful where there is a great tendency for the disease to return to a spot once attacked. A septic poison encapsulated in the lymphatic glands, if forced into the circulation by fluxion to the glands, may in- duce new lymphangitis and phlegmonous periadenitis; this explains the repeated relapses, and the latency of the disease after infection, especially in dissecting wounds. LECTURE XXV. 6. Phlebitis; Thrombosis; Embolism.—Causes of Venous Thrombosis ; Various Meta- morphoses of the Thrombus.—Embolism.—Red Infarction, Embolic Metastatic Abscesses.—Treatment. 0. Phlebiiis ; Thrombosis ; Embolism ; Embolic Metastatic Ab- scesses.—Besides the above forms of inflammation, there is often another phlebitis and thrombosis, which, starting from a wound or point of inflammation, is at first local, but afterward spreads in a pe- culiar manner to several organs. In persons dying Irom this disease we find pus, or friable, purulent, or pvitrid clots, in the thickened or partly-suppurating veins near the injured part. Often, also, there