SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. lOG hands in a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid; in the same way the parts about the seat of operation are to be carefully washed and moistened with the same solution of carbolic acid; and all instru- ments, sponges, and dressings used lie in this solution, which is sup- posed to kill all germs of coccobacteriii. To prevent these germs from reaching the wound through the air during the operation and dressing, a two per cent, solution of carbolic acid is constantly sprayed on the part with a special apparatus, so that it falls on the wound in the form of a fine rain. We have already described the occlusion or “ antiseptic ” dressing, as it is termed, although the open treatment of wounds and some other methods are just as anti- septic. There is no reason for going any further into details here, where we are chiefly explaining principles. Lister's dressing, which seems so complicated, is in practice much simpler than would appear from the description ; for every step and rule the inventor had a definite reason, and there is nothing arbitrary or intentionally mys- terious. If we inquire into the practical working of this treatment, we hear chiefly praise, and many speak enthusiastically of its won- derful effects. Although my own experience with it is not very great, I can recommend it as being generally very good ; it is cer- tainly more popular than the open treatment of wounds; it is still a disputed point which of these methods answers best in treatment of wounds of the extremities. I urgently recommend you to perfect yourselves in the principles and practical application of Lister'’s treatment, and you will have many favorable results. It is different if we accurately examine the correctness of the theoretical vie'ws from wliich Lister starts, and inquire whether by his mode of operating and dressing he has attained his object. In regard to the latter point, it has been often proved that in the secre- tion of wounds treated according-to Lister's method, and which healed rapidly without reaction, coccobacteria were found about as often as in secretion from wounds which were merely dressed with attention to cleanliness. This shows : 1, that the presence of these vegetations in itself proves nothing about the phlogogenous or other poisonous qualities of the secretion ; 2, that Leister's dressing is no guarantee for the destruction of bacteria. Against this second point it might be urged that there is no proof that these germs reach the wound from without; it is possible that permanent germs enter the blood through the respired air, and, though they may not develop under normal circumstances, do so in the .secretion of Avounds. If this be possilfie, there is no sense in the theory of Twister's method as far as regards its attaeking organic germs by chemical means. Indeed, it is my opinion that those not very frequent cases where