GOO TUMORS. of cancer of the skin is from the infiltrated form ; in fiat epithelial cancer the outgrowing cell-cylinders rarely grow deeper than the deep layers of the cutis, and consist chiefly of the small, round cells of the rete. Along with these proliferations the sebaceous glands become larger, fill up with developed large-celled epithelium, and the connective tissue is richly infiltrated with small-celled elements. In these new formations the development of epidermis pearls is rela- tively rare. As viewed on the patient in this commencing stage, the whole forms a hard, slightly-elevated infiltration of the cutis, covered with desquamating epidermis. This epithelial proliferation is not, however, very solid; occasionally there are disintegration, softening, and detachment of the glandular proliferations and sebaceous glands. The highly-vascular connective tissue remains, and may continue to grow as granulations, or it may partially cicatrize. While this goes on in the centre of the new formation, the latter continues to grow, it may be very slowly, in the periphery. At their very commencement, the cut surfaces of epithelial cancer are pale red and hard; in a short time they appear white and granu- lar ; occasionally we may see the large epithelial pearls and rods with the naked ej'^e. Ulceration takes place from without inward, even more frequently than by medullary softening from within outward, and usually quickly follows their development. Mucous softening is rare in these forms. In regard to the topography^ we may mention the following regions of the body as the most frequent seats: (a.) Head and neck / here these tumors develop chiefly on the eyelids, conjunctiva, skin of the nose and face, the lower lip, oral mucous membrane, gums, cheeks, tongue, larynx, oesophagus, ear, and scalp. The first appearance va- ries greatly : the worst cases begin as nodules in the substance of the mucous membrane or skin, and quickly ulcerate from central soften- ing ; other cases begin on the surface; a fissure, crack, indurated ex- coriation, epidermoid scab, or a soft wart, forms; this at first apparently insignificant affection may remain superficial for a long time, slowly extending laterally, less so in depth, and having indurated borders. If the carcinoma develop from a wart-like formation, it may perma- nently preserve the papillary character. The parts once diseased are forever destroyed by the metamorphosis into cancerous tissue; in typical epithelial carcinomata there is no cicatricial slirinking; the ulcers which rapidly develoj? from these new formations var}q like other cancerous ulcers; sometimes smaller or larger shreds of tissue • from the depths of the ulcer become gangrenous, leaving a crater-like loss of substance; sometimes the new formation proliferates, forming an ulcer with fungous, overgrowing edges. Not unfrcquently, a