730 AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICDLATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. of the lower half of the forearm and leg, we choose a knife with a blade about 15 centimetres long; for the upper part of the forearm, the arm, upper part of the leg, and the lower part of the thigh, the blade should be from 15 to 25 centimetres long ; for high amputa- tions and exarticulations of the thigh, it should be 25 to 35 centi- metres long. If you have two small knives with blades 5 centi- metres, and one each of 15, 25, and 35 centimetres, it will be enough. In amputating I do not like changing knives, and so prefer having the cutting edge somewhat rounded in front, so that the skin may be dissected up with the point of the same knife. Other operators prefer doing this with a scalpel, then taking another knife to divide the muscles, and still another for the periosteum. For pushing back the periosteum, I use a raspatorium, though sometimes this may be done by the nail alone. A skilled assistant will with his hands re- tract the soft parts sufficiently to give the operator room to cut and saw ; but pieces of clean linen may be used for this purpose. Some operators take pride in amputating even thick limbs with small knives, thus pushing the simplicity of instruments to tlie utmost point. Tliese points, while not unessential, depend greatl}’- on habit and tradition, and each one ma3'’ follow his own taste. Saws for amputation are usually bow-shaped. The bow should not be too high, or it will make the saw unsteady; the handle should be broad and lie securely in the hand. The blade should not be more than two centimetres broad, and the teeth should be bent out- ward, else the saw will catch; and it will be still more apt to do so if the assistant holding the lower part of the limb raise it instead of depressing it somewhat. After sawing the bone, I usually cut off the sharp edges with bone-nippers. When the amputation is completed, the vessels are twisted, com- pressed with needles, or ligated; the instruments required for this should be all ready. In one of these ways we first close all the ves- sels we can find, then relax the elastic band or tourniquet, doing it in such a way that the assistant can renew the compression if the bleeding becomes excessive ; then we apply acupressure or ligatures to any other arteries we see bleeding. In amputations of tlie thigh or arm we may have venous hmmoiThages, as the valves are insuffi- cient. The veins may be ligated or compressed bv needles ; torsion of veins is dangerous. Arterial hgemorrhage from the medullary cavity of bones is very unpleasant ; it is rarely severe. But either poking into the medulla with forceps or firm pressure with a sponge is dangerous ; and we should entirely avoid the application oi styp- tics, especially liq. ferri. I advise letting the bleeding alone till all other vessels are cared for; if by that time it has not ceased spon-