i6 SIMPLE IXCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. lenfyth of the wound ; generally sutures half-an-inch apart suffice, but where perfect apposition and small cicatrices are very desirable, as in wounds of the face, they must be closer, and should alternate between coarse ones at a distance from the edge of the wound, and fine ones enclosing but a small portion of the edge. The second variety of suture, hoisted or hare-lip suture, is made by passing a long pm with a lance-shaped point through the flaps of the wound, and passing a strong cotton or silk thread around it, as I now show you. You take the thread in both hands, lay it parallel to and immediately over the pin, that is, transversely to the wound, pass it under the two ends of the pin from above, and draw on it, so as to approximate the edges of the wound exactly (this is the so-called Nulltour); now you change the threads to the other hands, and, with the right thread in the left hand, pass around the left end of the pin from above downward, and, with the left thread in th e right hand, do tiie same for the right end of the pin; you change the threads again and make four to six similar, so-called figure of eight turns; then tie a double knot and cut the ends off close; then cut off the ends of the pin to aprojDer length, so that they may not press on the sldn, but not so short as to prevent their being readily withdrawn subsequently. There are a great number of other sutures, which for the most part are only of historical interest, and which we here pass over; some peculiar forms of suture will be treated in si3ecial surgery, under wounds of the different parts, as in wounds of the intestine. Where are the advantages of the twisted over the interrupted suture ? and when do you employ it ? These indications may be re- duced to two factors, so that you will consider the interrupted suture as the simpler and more common. The twisted suture is preferable— 1. When the flaps of the wound are very tense; 2. When the skin- flaps to be united are very thin and without support—in short, where the lips of the wound have a tendency to roll in. The needle, remain- ing in position in both cases, renders the suture more secure and firm; the needle serves as a sort of subcutaneous splint for the edges of the skin ; they are supported by it, and are also held more securely by the folds of thread on the outside. In many cases, in applying sutures in the face, the interrupted and twisted sutures are applied alternately; the latter serve as supports and to resist tension, the former to in- duce more exact union of the edges of the wound. When the bleeding has been sto]^ped and the wound united, all has been done that is at first necessary. Now let us observe what takes place in the closed wound.