606 TUMORS. Hypertrophy of the thymus gland does occur, but is rare. Tlie analogous diseases of Peyer’s glands and the spleen have no special interest in surgery. Lymphoma also occurs in tissues which do not belong to the lym- phatic glands. I class as lymphomata all those medullary tumors, usually soft, in which, by hardening and preparation, we may see a net-work analogous to that of the lymphatic glands. In this sense, I liave seen lymphomata of the upper jaw, scapula, cellular tissue, eye, etc.; tumors whose structure frequently can only be imperfectly dis- tinguished from granulation sarcoma (especially from Virchow’s glio- sarcoraa), and which form their ordinary medullary consistency, are briefly called “ medullary fungi.” According to my experience, the mixture of the above forms has no special prognostic significance, as these tumors are alike malignant and infectious; but the importance of the most accurate examination of these tumors should not on this account be limited or undervalued; during the last ten }mars we have learned interesting and important clinical differences for the more ac- curate distinction betwe-en sarcoma and carcinoma. Ten years ago we could not have spoken as decidedly about sarcoma and lymphoma as we now may. What we now include under “lymphomata” were formerly treated of partly under glandular h}q)erplasia3, parti}' as sar- comata, partly as medullary fungi. LECTURE XLIX. 10. Pa'piLlomata.—11. Adenomata.—12. Cysts and Cystomaia.—^Follicular Cysts of the ^kin and Mucous Membranes.—Neoplastic Cysts.—Cysts of the Thyroid Gland.— Ovarian Cysts.—Blood-Cysts. 10. PAPILLOMATA—PAPILLARY nYPEETEOPIIY. Hituekto we have spoken exclusively of new formations from the series of connective-tissue substances, muscles and nerv'es. We now pass to the neoplasiae of true epithelium, derived from the upper and lower germ-layer of the embryo. The epitheliums form a great part of two normal tissues, namely, of the papillae (tufts, intestinal villi), and of the glands; the former are wavy or finger-like elevations, the latter pouched or cylindrical sinkings in of the membranes, which the epithelial covering accurately follows. Both give the physiological paradigms for certain forms of tumors, of Avhich we shall mention the purely hyperplastic forms of the first series, impillomay and those of the second scries, adenoma