349 ERYSIPELAS TRAUMATICUM. CHS. It is doubtful whether the suppurations induced in rabbits by inoculation with the serum from erysipelas blisters is identical with the erysipelas of man. The most recent work on erj’sipelas, by hulcomsky, shows the near relation of micrococcus to erysipelas ; I can confirm his observations from others made at my clinic by Ehrlich / but interesting as these are, they cannot settle the vexed question as to the etiology of erysipelas. The disease always begins with a rapidly-increasing fever, which continues as long as the eruption lasts; it may be either remittent or continued, sometimes terminates with critical symptoms, sometimes gradually. I have no extensive experience of the so-called idiopathic erysipelas capitis et faciei ; from what I have seen, it seems to me very probable that this also starts from slight wounds (excoriations on the head or face) or inflammations (nasal catarrh, angina), and is also chiefly of toxic origin. The treatment of erysipelas is chieflj' expectant. We may try proph^'laxis by carefully cleansing the wound, and thus keeping off every thing that can favor the occurrence of erysipelas ; and when several cases occur in hospital, we sliould carefully guard against too many of them being in one ward, and occasionally some of the wards should be entirely vacated and ventilated for a time, to prevent the development of a more intense erysipelas contagion (little as we cer- tainly know of it). As to the local treatment, a series of remedies has been tried to prevent the advance of the erysipelatous inflammation and arrest the disease at its commencement. Ifor this purpose we circumscribe the borders with a stick of moist nitrate of silver or with strong tincture of iodine. According to my experience, this does little good, so that of late I have entirely left off this treatment. Older phvsicians thought that cold might force the cutaneous inflammation back, and thus greatly favor inflammation of the internal organs. Although this cannot be regarded as proved, a series of facts renders the use of cold apparently unadvisable. We have already mentioned that the occasionally great oedema may induce gangrene, which of course w'ould be greatly favored by intense cold ; and the application of bladders ot ice to a large surface, as to the back or the whole face, is scarcely practicable; lastly, the ice does no good, as in spite of it the dis- ease runs its typical course, for here almost more than in any other inflammation the local process and general infection go hand in hand. In the affected skin the patient has a disagreeable tension, a slight burning, as well as great sensitiveness to draughts or other changes of temperature. Hence it is advisable to cover the diseased skin and protect it from the air. This may be done in various ways :