CHRONIC SEROUS SYNOVITIS. 527 propria testis, in the cure of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, or water-rupture ; after injections of iodine in hydrocele, there has been an opportunity of making many examinations, from which the course of the cure appears to be as above stated; the shrinkage of the serous membrane, with new formation of endothelium, seems to me to be the final cause of the arrest of the secretion. Iodine injections in hydrarthrus are made by few surgeons; I have seen them made three times, and have made two, always with good result; but this is not always the case; then they must be repeated, but I warn you against repeating them too soon: you should at all events first allow the acute stage after the operation to subside. Cases have also occurred where severe inflammations of the joint have resulted after these iodine injections, which have been most used in France because they are a French invention (of JBoinet and Velpeau); as so often happens in traumatic articular inflammations, the acute serous synovitis became purulent; in favorable cases there was re- covery with anchylosis, in some cases amputation was necessary, in other cases the patients died of pymmia. These unfortunate termina- tions of an operation done for a disease, which is obstinate it is true, but not dangerous to life, have justly rendered injection of iodine into the joints unpopular; it is always dangerous to the joint and to life, and hence should be done as rarely as possible. The diagnosis of hydrarthrus is usually simple, and the disease always very different from chronic fungous purulent synovitis; how- ever, I would caution you that, in the commencement of tumor albus, also, there is occasionally a slight amount of serous exudation, and even fluctuation, in the joint, so that at first the diagnosis cannot always be exactly made; but observation for a few weeks suffices to show the nature of the disease, and, moreover, hydrops articulorum occurs chiefly in young adults, while tumor albus is most frequent in children. APPENDIX. CKRONIC DROPSIES OF THE SHE.\TnS OP THE TENDONS, MUCOUS BURS^, . AND SYNOVDVL HERNIAS. We shall now say something of the chronic dropsies of the sheaths of the tendons. The disease consists in an abnormal increase of the synovia, secreted from the sheath of the tendon, for facilitating the motion of the tendon, and in abnormal distention of the sac. The sheaths’ of the tendons of the hand are most frequently aifected. There is a gi-adual formation of a swelling in the hollow of Ihe hand and lower end of the volar side of the forearm ; and wo may distinctly feel the passage of a fluid in the sheath of a tendon from the vola