TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. 173 I have seen all these modes of treatment in practice. Here is m}' opinion of them : none of them act certainly as prophylactics. In contused wounds of the hands and feet the water-bath is best; for, under this treatment, extensive suppuration is rarest. To attain the same favorable results by the ice-treatment, we must cover not only the wound but the parts around with the ice-bladders ; pack the parts in ice. In applying cold-compresses, we shall only really obtain the effect of cold if we change the compresses every five minutes, for they warm very quickly, and the usual treatment with cold-compresses actually amounts to nothing more than keeping the parts moist; hence, this is, strictly speaking, no peculiar mode of treatment; never- theless, as I have already remarked, most small contused wounds heal under it spontaneously, without our placing them under unnatural conditions by the use of cold. Irrigation is not a bad plan of treat- ment, but it is troublesome, and it Is often difficult to avoid whetting the bed ; the condition of the wound subsequently does not differ from that in the more simple treatment by immersion or ice, so that I have not felt obliged to resort to irrigation. In France, this method is practised and highly esteemed by some surgeons. Apart from the prevention of accidents, for which all remedies are as useless here as venesection is in pneumonia, we have still in the above modes of treatment important means for combating the usual local accidents, I have still a few special remarks to make about the water-bath. As we here leave out of consideration injuries of the bones and joints, I know of no contraindication to it in contused wounds of the hand, forearm, foot, and leg. In most cases of these injuries the bleeding is so slight, and ceases so soon spontaneously, that the patient can place the extremity under water very soon if not immediately after the injury, without the occurrence of haemorrhage; but the blood clinging to the part should first be washed off, the water itself be perfectly pure and transparent, and, if it becomes clouded by the secretion of the wound, it should be kept clear by frequent re- newals. Even when the wound is two or three days old, the water- bath may still be employed with advantage ; later, it is of little use. If the patients lie comfortably in bed with the tub, they are more contented and free from pain under this treatment than under any other. The temperature of the water may vary greatly without much changing the condition of the wound ; only ice temperature, and the high temperature obtained by cataplasms, cause a somewhat different appearance; but from 54° to 90° or 100° F. it does not vary much in looks. Perhaps suppuration comes on a littU sooner at the higher temperature, but the difference is not great. Hence, we may adapt