241 SUPPURATIONS OF JOINTS. passes, m tbe first stages, most resembles acute catarrh of the mucous membranes. As long as there has been only superficial suppuration without disintegration of tissue (without ulceration), the membrane may return to the normal state ; but, if the irritation be sufficient not only for the formation of pseudo-membrane (which may also be again disintegrated), but to cause suppuration of the synovial membrane it- self, the only result will be formation of cicatrix. In describing a typical case of suppuration of the knee-joint, we have already shown that the pus perforates from the knee-joint into the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue; this undoubtedly occurs, but periarticular subcutaneous suppurations, after penetrating wounds of joints, also occur occa- sionally without depending on perforations of pus; we see them both in acute and chronic suppurations of joints, without being able to detect a direct communication with the cavity of the joint. From my experiments on the phlogistic action of pus, I think this must be due to the reabsorption of quickly-formed poisonous pus by the lym- phatic vessels of the synovial membrane, and its conduction to the periarticular cellular tissue; at the same time the neighboring lym- phatic glands are always swollen. When treating of Ij^mphangitis, we shall have to return to this subject. The cartilage does not par- ticipate in the inflammation for some time; its surface becomes cloudy, and, when the process is very acute, it begins to disintegTate to fine molecules, or even to become necrosed in large fragments, and to be detached from the bone by the occurrence of inflammation and suppuration between cartilage and bone (subchondral ostitis). Al- though the cartilage with its cells is not wholly inactive in these inflammations—for, from various observations, we can scarcely avoid believing that the cartilage-cells may also produce pus—still, I consider this state of the cartilage is essentially a passive softening, a sort of maceration such as occm’S under like circumstances in the cornea when there is severe blennorrhoea of the conjunctiva. Indeed, there are scarcely two parts of the human body so analogous in their relations as the conjunctiva in its relations to the cornea, and the synovial membrane in its relations to the cartilage. We shall frequently have occasion to return to this point, and shall here cease the considera- tions, which we shall resume more particularly hereafter. If the acute process becomes chronic, and a stiff joint results, an anchylosis (from liyKvXi], bent), it always occurs in the same way in all suppurative inflammations of the joints. We shall investigate this more exactly when treating of chronic articular inflammations.