6G4 TUMORS. may be recognized from the fact that they proliferate rapidly, and especially that they unite with the parts immediately around. It seems to me they are certain to recur, and are the most dangerous of tumors. Quite recently I saw two cases Avhere autopsy revealed me- tastatic lymphomata in the lungs and spleen. In some of these cases of lymphoma, typical leucocythemia has been observed, and Virchoio thinks that in these cases the increase of white corpuscles in the blood is due to the excess supplied by the hyperplastic lymphatic glands. I do not entirely share this view, first, because even with extensive tumors of the lymphatic glands leucocy- Ihemia is rare, and secondly, because it is very improbable that, when their normal formation is entirely destroyed, the lymphatic glands should continue their functions physiologically, or even in excess. As Frey, 0. ~\Veher, and myself, have made a number of unsuccessful attempts to inject the lymph-vessels of such glands, this also Avould favor the view that these hypertrophic lymphatic glands are physio- logically insufficient, although in lymphatic glands especially such negative results at injection are to be very carefully judged. The fact that Muller (in Jena) succeeded in injecting a small, slightly- swollen gland, of course proves nothing, as the destruction of the lymph-ducts only comes on gradually. However, the interesting fact, that leucocythemia occurs especially with enlargement of the lymphatic glands and spleen, is not to be denied, only the connection is not so direct, there must be some other cause at present unknown, for the development of this disease.^^ What has been said shows that the prognosis of lymphoma varies, and can only be pronounced with any certainty after a period of ob- servation of the rapidity of its growth; in general terms, we may say the disease is the more dangerous the younger the patient. I have rarely seen it develop after the thirtieth year, and formerly thought it hardly occurred after that; but not long since I met a case of large lymphoma of the bronchial g’lands in a stout woman, forty-five years old, who had suffered lor five years Irom asthma j the disease had finally induced suffocation. In another case, in a man sixty-five years old, there was immense lymphoma of the axillary glands.’^ The treatment of this disease of the lymphatic glands will at first often be internal, usually antiscrofulous—cod-liver oil, brine-baths, and, if the constitution ol the patient does not contraindicate it, iodine remedies; if there be considerable anaemia, iron alone, or with iodine, is indicated. In favorable cases, recent lymphomata disappear under this treatment. In still other favorable cases, we arrest the growth of the tumor; but, unfortunately, the number of cases curable b^'ined- cine is slight, and in those very cases, where Ave wish most from these