167 INFLAMMATION OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. much motion of the part, oi- by great bodily exertion, as well as by exciting drinks, mental agitation, in short, by any great excitement; in wounds of the head, such congestions are particularly dangerous. Congestion, as caused by too tight bandages, may prove injurious in the same way. 2. Local or general catching cold ; about catching cold as a cause of inflammation we know little more than the simple fact that, under certain circumstances, which cannot be accurately defined, a sudden change of temperature induces inflammations, especially in a locics minoris resistentice of an individual; in a wounded person the wound is always to be considered as a locus minoris resistenti(B. The danger of catching cold after injury was certainly over-estimated formerly; I hardly know of any certain examples. 3. Mechanical iiritation of the wound. This is very important. The pus from the wound is never reabsorbed by the uninjured granulations ; but, if they be destroyed by mechanical manipulations, as by improper dressings, much probing, etc., which cause the wound to bleed frequently, new inflammations may be induced. Any foreign bodies in the wound might prove serious in this way, such as pieces of glass, lead, or iron, or sharp splinters of bone; for the first changes which take place in the wound, the vicinity of such foreign bodies is less important, but, when, from muscular movements, and the motion communicated to tiie tissue from the arteries, the sharp angles of a foreign bod}^ keep up constant friction in a part, severe inflammation occurs after a time. 4. Chemical ferments / here I mention first soft foreign bodies, such as pieces of clothing, paper wads, which have entered the tissue through gunshot wounds ; these substances become impregnated with the secretions from the wound, then the organic material (paper, wool) decomposes, and acts as a caustic and ferment in the wound. I am in- clined to believe that necrosed splinters of bone also act rather as chem- ical than as mechanical irritants ; in the Haversian canals, or medullarv cavity, they always contain some organic decomposing substance; all such pieces of bone have a putrid smell when extracted; if the sur- rounding granulations were partly destroyed by the sharp angles of such a fragment of bone, the putrid matter passes from it into the open lymphatic vessels, or possibly even into the blood-vessels, and so induces, not only local, but, at the same time, constitutional infec- tion. Necrosed tags of tendon and fascia at the bottom of suppu- rating wounds may induce the same results, although this rarely hap- pens. In hospitals, especially, there are some rare cases where we can find none of the above causes; such occurrences naturally induce pe- culiar alarm, and attemjDts have been made to explain them by certain injurious influences of the hospital atmosphere, especially such as is filled with the smell oi pus. Many circumstances sjieak against the