612 TUMORS. aftenvard forms, is as purely hyji^thetical as any that has yet been advanced. Let us take arthritis as an analogy: ZalesJci induced tlie most typical arthritis in a goose by ligating the ureters; an articular disease resulting from disturbance of the function of the kidneys. Possibly tumors might just as well develop in any tissue from dis- turbance of the hepatic function ! Very many things are possible. We know nothing certain on this point, and move entirely in h}^oth- eses. For my part, I find it just as allowable to assume a diathesis here, as in scrofula, arthritis, etc.; that, partly from unknown, partly from known causes of general nutrition and ordinary conditions of life, abnormal matters proceed, which have a specific irritant action on this or that part of the body, analogous to that of certain drugs. Lastly, if to this we add that the diathesis for production of tumor is hereditary, although not to such an extent as the chronic inflammatory diathesis, the doctrine of weakness localized in certain systems of ti.s- sue, or certain parts of the body, seems entirely untenable. Tliere is certainly a local cause for the members of one family having large noses; in proportion to the face, they have grown larger than in other men, still the large nose of the father cannot descend directly to the son, it can only be inherited from the father through the spermatozoa, and there the original cause is to be sought; all peculiarities that de- scend by inheritance are unquestionably to b,e termed constitutional. I have now occui:>ied you some time with reflections which some of you may consider very tedious; they will ask me. Of what use are these things in practice ? Then, unfortunately, I must acknowl- edge that practice pays little attention to them, because they are so hypothetical. Those of you to whom such ideas as we have just spoken of do not occur, I advise to pay no further attention to them; not to be obliged to speculate as to the final causes of things is, in a certain sense, an enviable quality. For convenience, let us comprise, in a few short propositions, what we have said regarding the etiology. Tumors, like inflammatory neoplasiae, result from irritation of the tissue ; the diflFerence in the causes lies: 1. In the specific quality of the irritation. Infection of healthy tissue about a tumor, neighboring lymphatic glands, etc., is considered sufficient proof of this. It is supposed that, under some unknown circumstances, this specific irri- tant may be formed locally {JRindJlcisch). I think that, partly as a result of hereditary predisposition, partly from a developed tendency, that is, where there is a diathesis, we may imagine the fonnation of materials in the fluids of the body, which shall have a specific irritant action on one or other tissue. 2. Any, usually an inflammatory, irri- tation may excite a tumor, if the irritated tissue is specifically disposed