CHAPTER VII. mJUEIES OF THE JOINTS. Oontusion—Distortion.—Opening of the Joint, and Acute Traumatic Articular Inflam- mation.—Variety of Course, and Results.—Treatment.—Anatomical Changes. Hitherto we have studied injuries of simple tissue-elements; now we must occupy ourselves with more complicated apparatuses. As is well known, the joints are composed of two ends of bones covered with cartilage ; of a sac frequently containing many appen- dages, pockets, and bulgings; the synovial membrane, which is classed among the serous membranes; and of the fibrous capsule of the joint with its strengthening ligaments. Under some circumstances, all these parts participate in the diseases of the joint, so that at the same time we may have disease of a serous membrane, of a fibrous capsule, as well as of cartilage and bone. The participation of these different parts varies exceedingly in intensity and extent; but I may state at once that the synovial membrane plays the most important part, and that the peculiarity of joint-diseases is chiefly due to the closed and irregular form of the synovial sac. First, a few words about crushing and contusion of the joint. If one receives a heavy blow against the joint, it may swell moderately ; but in most cases, after a few days of rest and applications of lead- water or simple cold water, the swelling and pain subside, and the functions of the joint are restored. In other cases, slight pain and stiffness remain; a chronic inflammation develops, which may lead to serious disease, of which we cannot at present speak more fully. If we have a chance to examine a moderately-contused joint, the patient having died perhaps of a serious injury received at the same time, Ave shall find extravasations of blood in the synovial membrane, and ei'en blood in the cavity of the joint itself; in these contusions without fracture the effusions of blood are rarely so extensive (hat the joint is tensely filled with blood; but this may occur. This condition is cnWed hoemarthron (from at/tci, blood, and opdpov, joint). If a joint that has swollen greatly just after an injury remains painful for some