267 DEGREES OF BORNS. ally last a few hours, in other cases several days. But it is not neces- sary, and not at all practical, to make several grades on this account. Second degree (formation of vesicles): Besides the symptoms of the fij'st degree, vesicles arise on the surface of the skin; before burst- ing these contain serum, clear or mixed with a little blood. These vesicles form immediately, or in a few hours after the reception of the burn, and may vary greatly in size. Anatomically we find that in most of these cases the horny layer is detached from the mucous layer of the epidermis, so that the fluid rapidly escaping from the capilla- ries lies between these two layers, just as results from the action of a blister. The vesicles rupture or are punctured; from the remaining- rete Malpighii a new horny layer of the epidermis forrr.e quickly, and in six or eight days the skin is the same as before. It may also hap- pen that after removal of the vesicle the denuded portion of skin is excessively painful, and for several days, or even a fortnight, there may be superficial suppuration; the pus finally dries to a scab, under which the new epidermis forms. You may induce this state also artificially by lea-^ung a blister for a long time on one spot. Here also it is un- necessary to make new grades of these variations, for they only de- I pend on a little greater or less destruction of the rete Mal^Dighii, while the greater or less pain corresponds to the amount of denuda- tion of the nerves in the papillm of the skin. Third degree (formation of eschars): By this terra we may desig- nate all those cases where there is formation of eschars, i, e., where i portions of the skin, and even of the deeper soft parts, aie destroyed by the burn. Of course, the varieties may be very great, as in one case there may be only burning and charring of the eiDidermis and papillas, in another death of a portion of the cutis, in a third charring of the skin or of an entire limb. In all cases where the papillary layer, . with the rete Malpighii, is destroyed, there w-ill be more or less sup- puration, by which the mortified portion will be detached, which of course will leave a granulating wound, that will follow the ordinary course in healing. If only the epidermis and the surface of the pa- pillas be charred, there is only slight su2')puration, with rapid replace- ment of the epidermic layer from the remains of the rote Malpighii. From what has been said, you may understand how from four to seven or more degrees might be formed; but, to make the subject com- prehensible, the three degrees of redness, vesicles, and escliars, are enough. In extensive burns we often find these different degrees combined, and, when the injured part is covered with charred epider- mis and dirt, it is often diflicult to determine the degree at anj'- point. If there be suppuration, it may be either superficial or deep; occasion- ally it appears as if islands of young cicatricial tissue formed in the J