203 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. while in dislocations we must occasionally resort to different meclian- ioal appliances. By the above method accurate reposition will only be impossible when, from excessive swelling or from peculiarly un- favorable dislocation of the fragments, we are unable to correctly recognize the variety of the displacement. F^i'om our present ideas, which are based on a large number of observations, the sooner reposition is made after the occurrence of the fracture, the better; we then at once apply the bandage. This was not always the belief, but formerly the adjustment of the frac- ture and the application of the dressing were delayed till the disappear- ance of the swelling, which almost always occurs if a dressing is not at once applied. It was feared that under the pressure of the dress- ing the extremity might mortify, and the formation of callus would be hindered; with certain cautions in the application of the dress- ing, the former may very readily be avoided, and there is little truth in the latter belief. Regarding the choice of the dressing also, surgeons have of late reached an almost unanimous opinion. It may he regarded as a rule, that a solid, firm dressing should be applied as early as possible in all cases of simple subcutaneous fractures of the extremities; this may be changed altogether two or three times, but in many cases does not need renewal. This mode of dressing is called the immovable or fixed, in contradistinction to the movable dressings, which must be renewed every couple of days, and are only provisional dressings. There are several varieties of firm dressings, of which the most serviceable are the plaster of Paris, starch, and liquid glass. I shall lirst describe the plaster dressing, and show its application, as it is the one most frequently used, and answers all requirements in a way that can scarcely be improved. Plaster of Paris Pandage.—After adjustment of the fragments, the broken limb is extended and counter-extended by two assistants, then one or more layers of wadding applied over the point of fracture, and over parts where the skin lies directly over the bone, as over the crest of the tibia, the condyles, and malleoli. Now it is best to en- velop the limb with a new fine flannel roller-bandage, so as to make regular pressure on it, and cover all joarts that are to be surrounded by the plaster-bandage. In hospital and poor practice, where we can- not always have flannel, we may use soft cotton or gauze bandages. Now comes the application of the plaster-bandages prepared for the purpose; the plaster-bandage that I here have is cut from a very thin gauze-like stuff; it is prepared by sprinkling finely-powdered plaster (modelling plaster) over the unrolled bandage and then rolling it. In private practice a number of these bandages of various sizes may be