478 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. or of a large, spongy bone, such as the calcaneus; if severe pain and other previously-mentioned symptoms of bone-abscess gradually ap- pear, it may become proper to cliisel out the bone, or open the cavity of the bone and let out the pus; but I only advise this operation when you are sure of your diagnosis, for it is no slight injury to a patient to have a healthy medullary cavity opened. Very acute osteomyelitis, with its often dangerous results, may arise from untimely interference, while a similar operation on a diseased bone is not usually very seri- ous. In other cases you will await the spontaneous opening of the abscess through the bone; then you may use a probe, and judge accu- rately of the state of affairs. The obstacles to the healing of such excavations in the bone have been previously mentioned; should the process remain stationary for a long time, it may be best to enlarge the 0]Dening in the bone, expose the abscess, and remove its walls; this will be the more necessary if there are any small necrosed por- tions of bone in the abscess-cavity which prevent its healing; that is, if the case be one of caries necrotica. But all these manipulations are only indicated if the general health be good; if there be ad- vanced tuberculosis or marasmus, and the disease will necessarily prove fatal, no surgeon would wish to do an operation which can only prove successful when the local changes in the new wound of the bone go on normally. These operations, part of which, at least, may be classed among the partial resections in the continuity, have lost their cruel and terrible appearance since the introduction of chloro- form, by whose aid the patients escape feeling the chisel, hammer, and saw. In tliose cases where the caries is so extensive as to affect the whole thickness of a long bone, we might think of sawing out the en- tire diseased part. This case is very rare, and such operations are of extremely doubtful benefit. We might, it is true, saw out a piece from tlie middle of the fibula, radius, or ulna, from the metacarpal or meta- tarsal bones, without greatly impairing the function of the extremity; but, should we do the same for the humerus, femur, or tibia, and re- covery take place, the function of the extremity would, at most, only be partially restored by aid of an apparatus ; in the lower extremity an artificial leg would be of more use than a leg that had lost a con- siderable portion from the continuity of the bone. It has becTi thought that the periosteum, detached from the bone before it is sawed, and left in the wound, would form new bone; but after opera- tions for caries this regeneration of bone is very sciinty, so that we cannot count much on it. Moreover, caries is the rarest indication for these total resections in the continuity. Lastly, in regard to those cases which are on the whole rare, where