694 TUMORS. simple papilloma and villous cancer may be just as difficult to define as those between adenoma and carcinoma. As above stated, a tumor like a mushroom forms on the inner sur- face of the bladder, growing into its cavity, and floating in the urine, its base being attached to the wall of the bladder, like a carcinoma, and its long, branched villi being covered with very large epithelial cells, while the ground-work of the papillae is composed of connective tissue, Avhose meshes contain epithelial cell-cylinders, such as occur in carcinoma (Fig. 157). Now, a few words about the course of the above carcinomata as a class. They usually appear in elderly persons, say from the fortieth to sixtieth year, rarely later, but, unfortunately, it is not so rare for them to come earlier; I have seen cancer of the tongue in a boy of eighteen, and cancer of the uterus in a woman of twenty years. On the whole, country people are more subject to cancer of the li]3 than city people are. The earlier these carcinomata appear, the more pro- liferant the local tumor, the earlier the lymphatic glands are implicated, and the more rapid the whole course. It has often been observed that, after entire removal of the tumor, there is no recmTence. In some cases the disease runs its course very quickly, in a year; in oth- ers it lasts three, five, ten years, or longer (flat cancer of the skin) ; sometimes, also, the recurrence is only in the lymphatic glands, as when a cancer of the lip has been completely extirpated, but at the time of operation cancer-germs were already present in the cervical lymphatic glands. The new formation in the gland at first appears pale red, is a rather hard, diffuse infiltration, or a white kernel, but with time it becomes softer, and, to some extent, puljjy and purulent. The cervical lymphatic glands infiltrated with cancer have a great tendency to ulcerate ; their microscopical structure is the same as that of i^rimary cancer. I think there is no doubt that secondary cancer in the lymphatic glands is always due to transplantation of cancer- germs from the original focus (see page 607). The above forms of cancer scarcely ever go beyond the lymphatic glands; infection of in- ternal organs (liver, lungs, spleen, kidneys) is very rare. The con- stancy with which carcinoma occurs at certain points, especially where mucous membrane passes into skin (vagina, penis, lips), has justly always excited much attention. It was natural to seek the causes of the disease in the structure of these parts, and in the irritations to which these openings were subjected; the dislike that most modern pathologists have to specific, unknown irritations has induced them to seek different causes for explaining the obscurity about the specific