INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 24G and you may readily understand that in a certain direction you may not unfrequently slip the head of the bone into place with very little force, while in another position it might be entirely impossible. When the head of the bone enters the articular cavity, it occasionally causes a perceptible snap; but this does not always occur; we are only per- fectly assured of successful reposition by the restoration of normal mobility. If we do not succeed alone, or with a few assistants, we have various aids, by applying long slings to the limb, and having sevei’al assistants draw in one direction. This traction, Avhich of course must be ojjposed by a counter-extension of the body, must be regular, not by starts. If we do not succeed, even in this way, we call in the aid of machinery to increase the jaower. For this purpose various instru- ments were formerly employed, such as the lever, screw, ladders, etc. Now the multijDlying pulleys, or Schneider-MeneVs extension-appara- tus, is almost exclusively used. The multiplying pulleys, an instru- ment that you already know from your studies in physics, for increas- ing power, and which is greatly resorted to in mechanics, are used as follows : One end of the rope is fastened to a strong hook in the wall, while the other is applied to the limb by straps and buckles. Counter- extension is made on the body of the patient, so that it shall not be moved by the extension. An assistant draws on the pullej's, whose power of course increases with the number of rollers employed. Schneider-MeneVs apparatus consists of a strong gallows, to the inner side of one post of which is attached a movable windlass, which may be turned by a handle and held by a toothed wheel; over this wind- lass runs a strap which is attached by a hook to a bandage applied around the luxated extremity. In luxation of the lower extremity the patient lies on a table placed lengthwise between the posts of the gal- lows, or for reduction of an arm he may be seated on a chair placed the same way; the counter-extension is made by straps by which the patient is fastened to the other post of the gallows. Both of these apparatuses have certain advantages, but both are troublesomfe to aj> ply. In your practice you will have little to do with them, as they are almost exclusively employed in old dislocations whose treatment is more rarely undertaken in private practice than in hospitals and surgical clinics. At present, when we undertake this forcible reduction, it is always under the influence of anaesthetics. To produce complete relaxation this anaesthesia must be very profound, and, as the chest is often cov- ered with straps and girdles for counter-e.xtension, the amcsthctic must be very carefully employed to avoid dangerous results. But there are also other dangers which were known to (he older surgeons.