101 OPEN TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. with its evil results would be impossible, he will soon find practi- cally that the object of the open treatment of wounds will not be attained by absolute inattention, but that the form and position of Uie wound may greatly impede the escape of secretion, and also that the early, firm union of the skin may shut off certain parts of Ihe wound as elfectually as if a suture had been introduced, and thus the same severe diseases may be induced as by the old methods of treatment. In operations we may do much to make wounds of such a shape that the secretions will run off at once ; but in accidental wounds this is often difficult to do, and requires a certain experi- ence. In regard to the above-mentioned formation of pockets, we should prevent it by daily breaking up the adhesion, or from the first lay drainage-tubes in all the angles and hollows of the wound, through Avhich any secretion fiom the deeper parts may readily es- cape. These drainage-tubes, introduced by Chassaignac, are made of vulcanized rubber of various calibre, w'ith holes along the sides. The term “ drainage ” is taken from agriculture ; land may be drained by laying a system of porous tubes at a certain depth through the soil; the water trickles into these tubes, and flows through them to large ditches. The results from careful trial of this method of open treatment for years far surpassed all previous ones. From the publications of liartscher, Vezin, and Buroxo.^ I had my attention called to this plan over ten years ago ; and as it fully agreed with the views I had arrived at from clinical and experi- mental observations and investigations on the poisonous peculiarities of the first secretion from wounds, I have pursued it with particular care, and have resorted to it in almost all deep wounds of the ex- tremities, whether incised or contused. It was only after being assured by some of the most prominent German surgeons that better results were obtained by Lister''s careful antiseptic dressing that I Avould try it, so little did I think of the correctness of the theoiy. There is no doubt that it would be a great advantage for the pa- tient and a triumph for surgery if we could without danger induce healing by first intention in all large deej} wounds. It is true, even in the open treatment of wounds, the surfaces may so come in con- tact as to heal almost entirely by first intention ; but this is rare, although partial adhesions arc frequent and do not require breaking up if the patient remain free from fever and pain. Formerly, by applying bandages to press the surfaces of the wound together, or by deep sutures, attempts were made to induce immediate union ; although this succeeded in some cases, it proved so dangerous in those where the surfaces of the wound were separated by blood or exudation, which putrified and could not escape, that conscientious