112 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TUE SOFT PARTS. Linear cicatrices of wounds, that have healed by first intention, rarely undergo subsequent degeneration. Large, broad cicatrices, especially when they lie immediately on the bone, often oj)en again; the epidermis, which is tender at first, being torn off by motion or by the least blow or friction, and there is superficial atrophy, an excoiia- tion of the cicatrix. Sometimes the young epidermis is elevated like a vesicle, by exudation from the vessels of the cicatrix; there may also be some haemorrhage, so that the vesicle will be filled with bloody serum. Then, after removing the vesicle, you have an excoriation, as after simple rubbing off of epidermis. This opening of the cicatrix, if often repeated, may prove very annoying to the patient. You 2Dre- vent this most readily by causing the patient to protect the young cicatrix for a time with wadding or a bandage. If the excoriation nas taken jDlace, apjDly only mild dressings: oil, glycerine, zinc-salve, etc., or emplastrum cerussa. In these cases, irritating salves enlarge the wound, and consequently should be avoided. If the granulating surface be once perfectly covered with epider- mis, as already stated, the retrogressive changes to solid connective tissue take place in the cicatrix, and it atrophies. But in rare cases the cicatrix grows independently, and develops to a firm connective- tissue tumor. This is seen almost exclusively in small wounds that have long suppurated and been covered with spongy granulations, over which the epidermis formed exceptionally. You know it is the custom to pierce the ear-lobes of little girls, so that they may subse- quently wear ear-rings. This little operation is done with a coarse needle by the mother or the jeweller, and a small ear-ring is at once introduced through the fresh puncture. As a rule, this ^^uneture soon heals—the ring preventing the closure of the opening. But in other cases there are active inflammation and supjjuration; indeed, if the suppuration continue, the ring may cut downward through the lobe; granulations develop at the openings of entrance and exit; finally, the trial is given up, and the ring removed; then the ojaening often heals quickly. In other cases the graTiulations cicatrize, the cicatrix continues to grow, and on both sides of the lobe oi the ear small connective-tissue tumors, small fibroids, form. These look like a thick shirt-button drawn through the hole of the ear, and they grow inde- pendently like a tumor. If you examine tliese tumors, on section you find them of pure white tendinous appearance, like the cicatrix itself. Microscojjically the tissue is found to consist of connective tissue with numerous cells; it is simifly a proliferation, an hypertrophy of the cicatrix. I have seen this twice in the ear; another case is mentioned by Dieffenhach in his operative surgery. I once saw similar tumors on the back of the neck, Avhere they had formed at tlie