415 SCROFULA. glands to swell after dentition, for instance, there must be an abnor- mal irritability of tlie lymphatic system such as does not exist in all children ; moreover, such local irritations cannot always be found for the affections of the bronchial and mesenteric glands, which are almost as frequent. It is also a morbid state for the swellings of the lymphatic glands to last longer than the irritation, and even subse- quentlv to increase without apparent cause. It may be acknowledged that some of the above affections—for instance, part of the scrofulous diseases of the joints—are caused by injuries, contusions, etc.; but the fact that they take a chronic and to some extent entirely peculiar, constant course, is due to abnormal condition of the tissue, which ab- normal condition is so spread over the entire body that it cannot be regarded as a purely local, but must be considered a universal condi- tion. Various attempts have been made to explain this local and gen- eral abnormity, especially to refer the “ chronicity ” to a continuance of the irritation, so as to escape the enigma of an organism reacting differently to one irritant from what it does to another. Hence it has been assumed that the matters formed by a chemical change in the tissues, from whatever cause, were not taken up by the lymph- and blood-vessels and removed from the diseased organ, but remained there and induced continued inflammatory irritation. I am far from denying that this takes place occasionally; but even if it were alwaj^s true, the peculiarity just mentioned of this or that organ still remains abnormal in these persons. In short, we do not thus escape the fact that tliese persons differ from the majority either in certain tissues or in toto. Children fall times without number on knee, hip, or elbow, without any disease resulting, or else the effects pass off in a few days, even without treatment and when there has been consid- erable bruising, as shown by the extensive extravasation, swelling-, and pain. But even after slig-ht injuries some children have chronic inflammations of the joints ; these are exceptions; there is, however, no objection to regarding them as a peculiar j^athological race. At- tempts have been made to diagnose the scrofulous diathesis from the general appearance and condition of the child. The following is the picture usually drawn of a scrofulous child : blond hair, blue eyes, very white skin with thick cellular membrane, thick lips, pot-belly, voracious appetite, and tendency to constipation {torpid scrofula). In practice you will meet some of the originals of this portrait, but you will see many other cases not at all like it, which nevertheless suffer from typical scrofula. I do not attach much importance to these external symptoms. In regard to the course and terminations of chronic inflammation in scrofulous children, Ave may make the fol- lowing remarks : In a few cases the chronic inflammatory swelling