43 UNION OF WOUNDS—SUTUKES. able for a time, bare been thrown aside.. The suture has not yet been dropped, and probably never will be, any more than ligation. There are certain parts of the body, as the scalp, hands, and feet, where we try to avoid sutures, because there certain inflammatory processes, which have often been ascribed to the suture, readily assume a dangerous character; but I think there is a good deal of prejudice in this. Wounds of the head are especiall}’ prone to cause inflamma- tions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue ; extensive statistics have never shown whether this tendency is particularly increased by the irritation from sutures. There are many articles of faith handed down from preceptor to pupil, from one text-book to another ; many of them are a sort of Hippocratic traditions, full of practical truth ; to these I pay full respect; others are based on accidental observations and consequent judgments ; among the latter, I class the objection to sutures in scalp-wounds. Reviewing my own experience, I remember more cases of inflammation following wounds where no sutures were introduced than where they were. It is very important, however, at once to recognize inflammations beginning in the head, and to remove the sutures. The amount of gaping and the forms of the wound (e. g., a flap-wound or not) at once show the necessity for sutures. One would never take any unnecessary trouble in introducing sutures, un- less urged by excess of surgical zeal; but where, for the reasons above given, adhesive plaster will not answer, we should employ sutures. For the interrupted suture we use surgical needles and silk thread or wire. Surgical needles differ from ordinary ones, in having a lance- shaped, ground point, which pierces the skin more readily than the round point of a sewing-needle; they are also of somewhat softer steel than English sewing-needles, so that they do not spring so much. Their thickness and length vary greatly, according as we wish to apply a strong thread deeply where the edges of the wound are tense, or only to use a fine thread to bring the edges together ex- actly. All needles should, however, have a good-sized eye, so that we may not, like a tailor, lose time in threading them, but do so readily and quickly. The needle maj'- be either straight or curved. The curve should vary with the locality where we wish to sew; for in- stance, very fine, strongly-curved needles are required for sewing about the inner canthus of the eye; large, strongly-curved needles are needed for sewing up a perinaeum, ruptured during labor, etc. The curvature may either be in the whole needle or only at the pointed end ; for instance, for certain operations, it is shaped like a fish-hook ; the variety is very great. For sewing such wounds as usually present themselves in practice, you need oidy a few fine and coarse straight and variously-curved needles.