TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT-WOUNDS. 2G1 be erected for those remaining'—the severely wounded—that will be best. If this be not practicable, they may be distributed in private houses; it has proved unadvisable to leave the wounded in school- houses and churches. The war in North America, as well as that between Austria and Prussia in 1866, showed that there were still improvements to be made in military sanitary arrangements. A factor has been added that never before came as an aid, namely, extensive assistance from societies. Sisters of Charitj^, civil surgeons, and many other persons who, either personally or by money and stores, aided in the care of the wounded. When this private aid is properly organized, under proper management of the military officers, it may be very useful. Concerning the treatment of gunshot-wounds, views have greatly changed from time to time, according to the point of view from which they were regarded; The oldest surgeons whose opinions we have, considered them as poisoned, and thought, consequently, that they should be treated with the hot iron or boiling oil. The first to op- pose this ■«dew successfully was Ambrose JPare^ whom you already know to have introduced the ligature for arteries. He relates that in the campaign in Piedmont (1536) he ran short of oil for burning the wounds, and he expected the death of all the i^atients who could not be treated according to the rules of the time. But this did not hap- pen ; on the contrary, they did better than the chosen few on whom he used the remains of his oil. Thus a lucky accident tolerably soon freed medicine of this superstition. Later it was very correctly ob- served that the great difficulty in healing gunshot-wounds was due to the narrowness of the canal, and attempts were made to obvi.ate this by plugging the wound with charpie or gentian-root. But sensible surgeons soon saw that this still more impeded the escape of pus from the deeper parts, and the correct view commenced to make some headway, that a gunshot-wound was a tubular contused wound. They sought to improve this in a peculiar way, by laying down the rule that every superficial gunshot-wound should be laid open, the opening of a canal leading into the deeper parts was to be enlarged by one or more incisions; various methods were proposed for chan- ging the contused wound into a simjfie incised wound by these in- cisions, Avhilc, in fact, the only thing that was done was to add an incised wound to the gunshot-wound. The case was somewhat dif- ferent when the rule was given to cut out the whole course of the canal, and close the resulting canal by sutures and cornin-esses, so as to obtain healing by first intention ; this proceeding cannot often be applied, and obtained little reputation. Of late, since the treatment of all Avounds is so much simplified, the same thing has happened to