33 TREATMEXT OF HAEMORRHAGE—COMPRESSION, must sometimes be eontinued half an liour to an liour, or longer, for ligation of the internal iliac in the former case, and of the carotid in the latter, are as dangerous as they are uncertain for a permanent ar- rest of the bleeding. ‘ Quite recently the genial surgeon and obstetrician, Simpson, of Ed- inburgh, whom you already know as the introducer of chloroform, has recommended a method which I cannot recognize as a perfect sub- stitute for ligation, but which is in manj’- cases of practical use; this is the compression of the bleeding artery by a needle—acupressure. Acupressure may be made in various ways. For instance, in an am- putation-flap, you introduce a long insect, or sewing-needle, nearly vertically through the skin and soft parts to witliin one-quarter or one-half an inch of the artery; turn the needle horizontally, bring its point close over or under the artery, and at about the same distance from the artery you push it into the soft parts, and pass it out through the skin nearly vertically, so that the artery shall be compressed be- tween the needle and the soft parts, or, still better, against a bone. Should this compression not act perfectl}'-, as it would rarely be likely to in large arteries, if the first needle was applied above the artery, pass a second one below it, and so compress the artery between the two needles, or else press tlie artery against the needle by means of a wire loop. In amputations I prefer acupressure by torsion; I pass the needle transversely through the artery, which is drawn forward, and with the needle make a half or Avhole rotation in the direction of the radius of the surface of the flap, until the bleeding is arrested, and then insert the point of the needle into the soft parts. The needles may be removed after forty-eight hours, without renewal of bleeding. The extensive experienee of English surgeons in the suc- cess of this bold operation first gave me courage to try it, and I must acknowledge that in several amputations, even of the thigh. I have seen no objection to it. I cannot quite believe that acupressure will altogether displace ligation, as Simpson prophesied. In this opera- tion, to Avhich I have resorted in most of my amputations for several years, I employ long golden needles with large heads, because other metals rust easily, and silver is too soft, and platinum too expensive. Quite recently Von Bruns has applied small ligature rods, with which loops of silk are applied around and retained against the artery, previously drawn out. These, like acupressure-needles, are re- moved after forty-eight hours. I have just tried this procedure with perfect success on the femoral artery in an amputation of the thigh. In venous hajmorrhage, or bleeding from numerous small arteries, especially in so-called parenchymatous hemorrhage, a regular tampon must be applied, by means of bandages, compresses, and charpie.