ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. 609 Views vary greatly about mechanical and chemical influences as causes of tumors. Various as the irritations may be, and much as they have been experimented with, in no single case has a tumor been caused intentionally by mechanical or chemical irritation; inflamma- tory new formations thus developed do not long outlast the external Imtation. Wherever and however we apply such mechanical and chemical irritants, we only induce inflammations ; if there be any spe- cific mechanical and chemical irritation (I mean one acting on the or- ganism from without, not starting’ from the tumor), i. e., one from whose action a tumor must develop, it is at present unknown. Then the question arises whether there are any reasons which render it absolutely necessary to assume such mechanical and chemical irrita- tion outside of the organism. I cannot agree to this. It is true there are many cases where a tumor forms after a blow, kick, or injury, but the number of such cases is very small in proportion to those where, after similar causes, there is acute traumatic inflammation, with a typi- cal course, or, if the irritation be continued, chronic inflammation also with typical course. We must regard this also as a rule : if a porter gets a thickening of the skin, with new mucous bursa under it, on the spinous process, or if he gets an ulcer .at the same point, it is to some extent a normal result, they are products of a chronic inflammatory irritation, and disappear as soon as the irritation ceases; but if from the same causes a person gets a fatty tumor, which does not disap- pear, but even continues to grow when the irritation ceases, we can- not here regard the irritation as specific, but must seek the peculiarity in the affected part. Previously in general and local infections we recognized the specific effects of imtation, now we must also acknowl- edge that there is a specific, qualitative, abnormal reaction of the tis- sue. Virchow and 0. Weber especially have maintained that exter- nal irritation always plays an important role in 'the development of tumors ; this follows undoubtedly from the fact that primary tumors are most frequent at points most subject to external irritation. Sta- tistics show that the most frequent seat of tumors is the stomach, then the portio vaginalis uteri, then face and lips, ‘then the mammary glands, rectum, etc. But the reason for the development of tumors, and not of chronic inflammation in such cases, must be a specific dis- position of these parts in certain pei'sons. Individuals who drink much spirits usually have gastric catarrh ; if, among one thousand topers, one or even ten, instead of catarrh, had cancer of the stomach, he should be considered as an abnormal subject, when compared with the mass who do not have it. Up to this point I agree entirely with Virchow, who speaks as follows: “ Although I cannot tell in what particular way an irritation must occur, to induce a tumor in some