651 EXTENSION OF ANCHYLOSES. restore tlie normal function even approximately ? Unfortunately, this is rarely possible. What shall then be done ? What, then, is the use of treatment ? This latter question is sometimes a just one, but is not usually so. We have already said that, in inflammations of the joints, the limbs usually assume an abnormal position, a position in which they are very unserviceable ; a leg bent at right angles at the knee is a useless, unnecessary burden, hence such limbs were formerly amputated, as the patient could go about better with a good wooden leg than with two crutches. An arm entirely extended at the elbow, or only slightly flexed, is also a very inconvenient member, and very unsuitable for seizing and holding objects, etc. By simply bringing the anchylosed limb into a position Avhere it is relatively most useful, as the knee into the extended position, the arm to a right angle, we may do the patient much good; hence, these operations of straight- ening or bending anchyloses are veiy satisfactory. Anchyloses in an inconvenient position were very frequent for a time; they are becoming rarer, and will disappear entirely as soon as universal attention is paid to the princqDle we urge of placing the joint in the best position for anchylosis, wlien we are treating acute or chronic inflammations. No surgeon of modern times will have occasion to operate on anchylosis for the improvement of position, in a patient that he lumself treated for inflammation of the joint. But there are still many cases that have to be treated in the country undermost unfavorable circumstances, where angular anchylosis of the knee or hip results, so that extension of anchylosis is still among the tolerably frequent operations. Attempts to straighten deformed and stift' limbs are quite old. Even in the surgical writings of physicians of the middle ages we And illustrations and descriptions of machines constructed for this pur- pose, for the method of relieving the deformities by slow extension with machinery is the older. A large number of apparatus for the various joints have been constructed, by whose aid the extension and flexion of the extremities may be induced by the action of a screw. Now these instruments are chiefly employed in cases where it is thought that, while straightening the joint, we may retain its mo- bility ; but as these cases are very rare, and as they also may be really improved by rapid extension, these machines are much less used. In contradistinction to slow extension of anchyloses, we have the rapid, forcible extension, which is falsely termed brisement force. Before chloroform was known and employed in these cases, this operation was, on many accounts, objectionable. It was very painful, and not free from danger; it required a great deal of power in the forcible ex- tension of anchylosis for breaking and tearing them up ; this was due not only to the obstimctions in the joint, but also very greatly to the