CONTUSIONS OF BLOOD-YESSELS. 149 mode of healing when treating of abscess; we call any pus-tumor, i. e., circumscribed collection of pus under the skin at any depth, an abscess: hence we term the above process the conversion of an ex- travasation of blood into an abscess. This process may be very pro- tracted, it may last three or four weeks, but, if not dangerous from its location, it generally runs a favorable course. We recognize the sup- puration of an extravasation of blood by the increasing inflammatory redness of the skin, the growth of the tumor, increasing pain, occasion- ally accompanied by fever, and finally by thinning of the skin at some point, where it is finally perforated. Lastly, there may be rapid decomposition of the extravasation; fortunately, this is rare. Then the tumor grows hot, tense, and very painful, the fever usually becomes considerable, chills and other severe general symptoms may occur. This termination is the v/orst, and the only one that requires speedy relief. AWiether there shall be reabsorption, suppuration, or putrefaction of an extravasation, depends not only on the amount of the effused blood, but very much on the grade of the contusion that the tissues have suffered; as long as these may return to their normal state, re- absorption will be probable; if the tissues be broken down and pass into disintegration or decomposition, they will induce suppuration oi decomposition of the blood; briefly, the effused blood will have the same fate as the contused tissue. While the skin is uninjured we cannot judge accurately how much the muscles, tendons, and fascim, are injured; occasionally the size of tlie extravasation may give some aid on this point, but it is a very uncertain measure; it is better to test the amount of functional ac- tivity of the affected muscles, but even the results thus given must be carefully accepted; the amount of force that has acted on the part may lead to an approximate estimation of the existing subcutaneous destruction. In contusion of muscles, as in wounds, healing takes place from the crushed muscular elements undergoing molecular disin- tegration and being absorbed, or by being eliminated with the pus on suppuration of the extravasation, but then there is new formation both of connective tissue and muscle. The largest extravasations, either diffuse or circumscribed, are usually accompanied by injuries of the bones; but it will be better to consider the injury of the bone in a separate section. If a portion of the body be so crushed as to be entirely or mostly incapable of living, it becomes cold, bluish red, brownish red, then black; it begins to putrefy; the products of putrefaction enter the neighboring tissues and the blood; the local inflammations, as well as the fever, assume peculiar forms. As this is the Siame in contusions with or witliout wounds, we shall speak of it later.