142 CONTUSIOXS OF THE SOFT PARTS WITHOUT WOUNDS. m wounds, but pain of a duller, more undefined character, although it may be very severe. In many cases, especially when he has struck against a hard body, the patient has a peculiar vibrating, threatening feeling in the injured part; this feeling, which extends some distance beyond the seat of injury, is caused by the concussion of the nerves. For instance, if we strike the hand or finger quite hard, only a small part is actually contused, but not unfrequently there is concussion of the nerves of the whole hand, wdth great trembling, dull pain, on account of which the fingers cannot be moved, and there is almost complete loss of feeling for the moment. This condition passes off quickly, usually in a few seconds, and then a burning pain is felt in the contused part. The only explanation we have of this temporary symptom is that the nerve-substance of the axis cylinder suffers molecular displacement from the blow, which spontaneously passes off again. These symptoms of concussion (the commotion) do not by any means accompany all contusions ; they fail especially in cases where a heavy body comes against a limb at rest, but they are not unfrequently of great signifi- cance in contusions of the head; here commotio cerebri is not unfre- quently united with contusio cerebri, or the former appears alone, for instance, in a fall on the feet or buttocks, whence the concussion is prop- agated to the brain and may induce very severe accidents or even death, without any preceptible anatomical changes. Concussion is es- sentially a change in the nervous system, hence we speak chiefly of cerebral or spinal concussion. But the peripheral nerves also may be concussed with the above symptoms; but since in such cases the more localized contusion is especially prominent, this nervous state is per- haps too much neglected. Severe concussion of the thorax may in- duce the most dangerous symptoms simply from concussion of the cardiac and pulmonary nerves, whereby the circulation and respiration are disturbed, althougii for the most part only temporarily. Nor can a reflex action of the concussed nerve, especially of tlie sympathetic on the brain, be entirely denied. Doubtless some of you, when wrestling or boxing, have received a blow in the abdomen; what terrible pain ! a feeling of faintness almost overcomes you for a time; here we have an action on the brain and on the heart; one holds his breath and gatliers his strength, to prevent sinking to the earth. Concussion of the ulnar nerve often occurs, when we strike the elbow hard ; most of you proba- bly know the heavy, didl pain, extending even to the little finger. Compression of sensitive nerves is said to cause contraction of the cerebral vessels, as is shown by recent experiments on rabbits; possi- bly this explains the faintness from severe pain. All these arc symptoms of concussion in the pcri])heral nerves. Now, as we do not know what si^ecially takes place in (he nerves, we