SARCOMATA. 645 sia (there is also a fibrous form) ; in young persons it sometimes oc- curs at different parts of the subcutaneous cellular tissue (lips, cheeks, chin, thigh). 2. jSTcevus vasculosus, the so-called fire-mole; this is a plexiform angioma of the most superficial cutaneous vessels, which ceases to grow from the moment of birth. There is no other difference be- tween fire-mole and growing angioma. I have already said that there are various combinations of hjrpertrophy of the skin, pigmentation, ectasia of the vessels, and formation of hair in these congenital marks. If these marks be on the face, and not too large (sometimes they im- plicate half the face), we may extirpate them partly or entirely, and subsequently make a plastic operation, or we may resort to cauteriza- tion. Some of these marks, where only the tops of the papillte are affected, may be greatly improved or even cured by a very superficial peeling of the skin. LECTURE XLVIII. 8. &rco;»a<a.—Anatomy: a, Granulation Sarcoma; 5, Spindle-celled Sarcoma; c, Giant- celled Sarcoma; d, Stellate Sarcoma; e, Alveolar Sarcoma;Pigmented Sarcoma. —Clinical Appearance.—Diagnosis.—Course.—Prognosis.—Mode of Infection.— Topography.—Central Osteosarcoma.—Periosteal Sarcoma.—Sarcoma of the Mam- ma, of the Salivary Glands.—9. Lymphomata.—Anatomy.—Relations to Leucaemia. —Treatment. 8. SARCOMATA. Over no group of tumors has there so long been uncertainty about their anatomical position and extent as about sarcoma. The old name, taken from <7ap^, flesh, merely meant that on section the tumor had a fleshy look; of course, this did not make a diagnosis, as it was greatly a matter of choice Avhat should be called flesh. The attempt to employ the name “sarcoma” solely for tumors com- posed of muscle filaments [Schu/i), that is, to identify it with those tumors now called “ myoma,” was not popular. Subsequently the term became somewhat more definite, as it was made to include all tumors rich in cells which had no decided alveolar formation, and Avere not carcinomatous. It is only for the last ten years that the folloAA'- ing histological definition has received general acceptance and has become quite common. A sarcoma is a tumor consisting of tissue be- longing to tlie developmental series of connective-tissue substances (connective tissue, cartilage, bone), muscles, and nerves, Avhich, as a mle, docs not go on to the formation of a perfect tissue, but to pccu- Uar degenerations of the developmental forms. Some pathologists ’.vould gladly see “muscles and nerves” excluded from this definition, but when speaking of spindle-celled sarcoma I shall shoAV why I can-