02 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. development of cells and tissue from lymph, coagulated blood, and librine, was firmly believed in. The first observations on cell-division as a result of abnormal irritation were made on cartilage by liedftrn in England ; then followed the observations of Virchow and Jleis on in- flamed cornea. In both cases it was seen that after cauterization with nitrate of silver, or after introduction of a seton, the tissue was filled with young cells; in the original tissue-cells, biscuit-shaped, then double nuclei were seen, from which a division was decided on; young cells were seen grouped together, and their origin from the tissue-cells seemed indubitable. Hence arose the idea that inflammation was a process in the tissues, which, entirely independent of the vessels, was associated with a rapid luxuriant proliferation of tissue-cells, and par- tial softening and disintegration of the intercellular tissue. Von liecklinghausen's discovery of the two varieties of cells found in con- , neclive tissue, as well as his discovery of the varied movements of pus-cells, might well have given rise to the question whether the pro- liferation of the cells, on irritating the tissue, started from the fixed or movable connective-tissue corpuscles, but failed to do so. But now observation is piled on observation ; and we are driven to the supposition that all young cells which in inflammation we find ab- normally in the tissue are wandering white blood-cells. Observers who have recently investigated this point do not all ao^ree: some still ascribe to the stabile cells of the connective tissue O ' a part in the inflammatory process. Strieker, in his latest publica- tions, maintains that, on irritation, the stabile tissue-cells are filled with neoplasma, increase by segmentation, and aid in the formation of pus ; but he does not deny the wandering of white blood-cells. Cohnheim, Key, Eberth, and others have denied the correctness of Strieker's observations, or rather of his interpretations. Observa- tions on this point are so tedious that we cannot wonder at the delay in elucidating a question apparently so simple. Of course, from the various errors to which we are liable in inter- preting the significance of what has been observed, we should be very careful about announcing general principles. In regard to the in- flammatory changes in connective tissue, however, as far as my obser- vation and criticism extend, I would maintain the above statements. In cartilage alone, nothing has been observed diderent from for- mer appearances. As the hyaline cartilage-substance has no canals passable for cells, so far as we at present know, there is little left except to suppose that the increase of cells in the cartilage-cavities after irritation results from division of the protoplasm of the cartilage- cells; of this I shall hereafter show you preparations ; still hyaline cartilage has never yet been watched for days in a living and irri-