238 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. joint may contain more fluid in the flexed than in the extended posi- tion, which has been proved experimentally by Bonnet^ who usually brought the joints in the cadaver to a flexed position, by injecting fluid into them. But these experiments do not seem to me to prove any thing about the above-mentioned flexed position, for these also occur in articular inflammations where there is no fluid in the joint; on the other hand, they are often absent where there is a great deal of fluid. Observation shows that acute painful synovitis most disposes to flexion of the joint. If the above symptoms have presented themselves, antiphlogistic remedies assume their historic value, but we must not forget that at the same time the position of the limb should not be neglected, so that if absolute stiffness of the joint should occur, this may result in the position relatively most favorable for its usefulness, that is, in the knee-joint fully extended, in the foot and elbow at a right angle, etc. If attention to this point was neglected at the commencement of the treatment, you should repair the error by anaesthetizing the patient, so that you may, ndthout difficulty, give the limb the proper position. Among the antiphlogistic remedies, I attach most importance to pla- cing one or more ice-bladders on the inflamed joint, and painting it Avith concentrated tincture of iodine, which should be used till a con- siderable extent of epidermis is elevated into a vesicle. If the fluid in the joint increases very rapidly, and the tension becomes insupportable, and if there is no free escape for the pus through the wound, so that there is danger of ulceration of the cap- sule from within, and of the pus flowing from the joint into the cel- lular tissue, we may carefully draAV off the pus with a trocar, of course guarding against the entrance of air into the joint. This tap- ping of the joint, which of late has been specially recommended by R. VolJcmann, I formerly used with good results, and by it cured, as I believe, four successive cases of severe, acute, traumatic inflamma- tion of the knee-joint, with perfect restoration of mobility. Since I have applied the plaster-bandage in simple penetrating wounds of the joint also, I have not resorted to tapping. If the patient is kept aAvake at night by pain, he should have a dose of morphine in the evening, and antiphlogistic diet and cooling drinks during the day. By this treatment Ave may succeed in cutting short the acuteness of the disease, even in this stage; but even then the function of the joint may not be fully restored, although this is possible in case the suppuration of the synovial membrane remains chiefly superficial (catarrhal). Frequently, hoAvever, the disease passes from an acute to a chronic course, the suppuration attacks the tissue more deepb*, then after recovery there remains more or less stiffness.