4G2 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE FERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. point. In such cases pus may form quite early in the centre of the )( inflammatory new formation, and subsequently be evacuated. It is 5 this disease that is especially termed hone abscess. The periosteum S does not remain unaffected; it is thickened and new bony deposits form in this case also from the surface of the bone, which is not at first perforated but is irritated from within. The hollow bone is thus enlarged externally at the point where the abscess forms in it, and gives the impression of the bone being here pressed apart and in- ' flated. It is difficult, indeed often impossible, to distinguish such a • bone-abscess from a circumscribed osteoplastic periostitis, hence we ’ should not be in too great haste to operate. This central caries may | be accompanied by partial necrosis of certain portions of bone on the J inner surface of the cortical substance, forming a caries necrotica 9 centralis. Lastly, we have the worst cases, where chronic internal || and external caries are accompanied by necrosis and by suppurative || or osteoplastic periostitis. All these develop in one and the same hollow bone at the same time; abscesses appear at different points; with the probe we sometimes touch rotten bone, sometimes a seques- trum ; in one place we enter the medullary cavity of the bone, in another only the surface appears diseased; the whole bone is thick- ened, as is the periosteum, and a little thin pus escapes from the ' fistulous openings. The macerated preparation of such a bone has a < peculiar appearance; the surface is covered with very porous osteo- ‘ phytes; between these, here and there, we find necrosed portions - which belong to the surface of the bone ; some openings lead into the medullary cavity; if you saw through these bones longitudinally, you •, find the medullary cavity also partly filled with porous bony sub- stance ; the cortical layer has lost its even thickness, and it also is porous, so that it is only at some few points that it can be distin- • guished from the osteophyte deposits; in the original medullary cavity we find occasional round holes, and in some of these necrosed ^ portions of bone. These bones are in such a state that their recovery cannot usually be expected, and either their extirpation or amputa- tion of the limb is necessary. _ In the short, spongy bones the case is somewhat different; in ; them, when there is proliferating, inflammatory neoplasia, solution of the bone with secondary suppuration comes on quite rapidly, although it is not an absolutely necessary result. There are cases of ostitis of the short sjiongy bones of the wrist and ankle, and especially in the 4 epiphyses of the hollow bones, where, without aiiy decided swelling (which is usually caused by the resulting periostitis), the bone is en- tirely dissolved by interstitial granulations growing all through i*, without any necessary accompaniment of the slightest trace of sup J