614 TUMORS. developed tissue—fibroma, cliondroma, osteoma, etc. We speak of multifile tumors when a series of similarly-organized growths occur only in one certain system of tissue j for instance, when numerous chondromata occur only on bones, or numerous lipomata only in tlie subcutaneous cellular tissue, or many fibromata only in the skin, etc. As generally acknowledged, there is at the same tinle a predisposition, which Virchow regards as purely local, but winch, as already stated, I must consider constitutional. In general, we may say that all sorts of tumors may occur as solitary or multiple, although the latter is very rare in some forms of tumors. We apply the term infectious to a tumor which not only grows into the parts around it, infiltrating them and thus constantly growing by apposition of new foci, but which may also infect the next lymphatic glands and finally other or- gans. In this respect there are very great differences: in some tumors the infection extends regularly only to the next lymphatic glands (carcinoma of the lips and face); in other cases from that point it extends farther, especially to internal organs (carcinoma of the breast); lastly, infection of the entire body with metastatic' tumors, without infections of the lymphatic glands, sometimes occurs (some forms of sarcoma). Moreover, the rapidity with which infection fol- lows, varies greatly. If we examine the conditions under which in- fectious tumors develop, and their anatomical structure, we shall see that they occur especially in advanced age, about equally in men and women, and particularly often in certain organs; that the age of child- hood is disposed to infectious growths, esj^ecially to malignant sar- comata, while in youth and the first years of adult age very fcAV tu- mors of any kind, and especially few malignant tumors, develop. I\Iode of bfe, good or bad food, poverty, I’iches, character, nationality, and cultivation, appear to have no special influence on the develop- ment of tumors generally; nor can we recognize any specific influence of these powers on infectious tumors. The study of the anatomical structure of tumors has been pursued with great zeal of late, and it appears that a large number of malignant growths have characteristic macroscopic and microscopic peculiarities, but that a correct progno- sis cannot always be based on them ; in general we may say that they are usually very vascular tissue formations, disposed to ulceration, and in their course proving to be infectious. As it is most probable that the infection results from the locomotion of specific tumor-ele- ments, some of the factors relative to reabsorption may here have some effect. Tlie quantity of blood and lymphatic vessels in the tumor and its immediate vicinity, the conditions influencing opening and closure of these passages, and the activity of the circulation gen- erally, arc to be considered.