305 ACUTE TERIOSTITIS. Here it causes more su23puration, and thus the process advances to the surface. Moser asserts that in these cases fluid fat is pressed, by the strong arterial pressure, from the cavity of the bone through the Haversian canals of the cortical substance to the surface of the bone, so that we may diagnose osteomyelitis from pus mixed with fat-drops rising from under the periosteum. Moreover, in a few cases, Moser found a remarkable elongation of the bone, and a relaxation of the neighboring joints, after osteomyelitis. He refers this to too rapid growth of the articular ligaments and epiphyseal cartilages. In the prognosis of acute periostitis and osteomyelitis we have to distinguish between the danger to the existence of the bone and to life. If the disease induces partial or total necrosis of the bone, the disease may be very protracted; it may last several months, or even years. Acute periostitis and osteomyelitis, especially in the femur, and still more when double, is always dangerous to life, because pym- mia is so aj3t to occur, and in children, because of the profuse sujDpu- ration, it is the more dangerous the longer the condition remains acute and the further it spreads. In treating this disease we may accomplish more if we are called early ; one of the most efficient remedies is painting the whole limb with strong tincture of iodine. This remedy should be continued tih large vesicles form. Of course the patient is to be kept recumbent, which in most cases does not need to be urged, as the pain keejDS him quiet. Since commencing this treatment I am so well satisfied with it, that I have almost given up the other antiphlogistics; cups, leeches, mercurial ointment, etc. When the vesicles formed by the iodine up, you apply more.- Derivation to the intestinal canal by saline purgatives aids the treatment, as it does in all acute inflammations. Some surgeons greatly praise the local application of ice at the com- mencement of the disease. Should suppuration nevertheless occur, and distinct fluctuation be felt at the thinnest part of the skin, we may make several openings in such a way that the pus shall escape without being pressed out; then the swelling usually subsides quick- ly; it is riiost favorable when the fever ceases early and the disease becomes chronic. If the fever continues, the suppuration remains profuse, the pains do not cease. We may try to relieve this condi- tion by continued applications of bladders of ice, with which we also try to alleviate any inflammations of the, joint that may occur. I have also derived great advantage from the application of a fenestrated plaster-splint, which should be supported with hoops on account of the large openings that must be made in it; in cases where there is detachment of the epiphysis, it is absolutely necessary that the limb should be fixed, if only to render the daily dressing less painful