ELEVATION OF TEMPERATURE IN INFLAMMATION. 91 getic contraction of the cutaneous vo.ssels, especially of the smallei arteries, and that thus the giving off of heat to the air is decreased, and more heat collected in the body, without its actually producing more. x\lthough this hj'pothesis is advanced by its author with w’onderful ability and acuteness, and is apparently supported by the work of Senator, I, with most i3athologists, cannot agree with it, especially as the premises, the contraction of the cutaneous vessels, can only be ac- knowledged in the cases begining with chill; but this chill is by no means a constant symptom in the fever. Hence, in what follows, we shall start from the point that in fever there is increased production of heat. Then arises the question, How does inflammation generally, and traumatic inflammation particularly, effect the increase of bodily temperature ? This question is answered in various ways: 1. At the point of inflammation, as a result of the lively interchange of tissue, heat is produced; the blood flowing through the inflamed part is w^armed more, and distributes the abnormal amount of heat here acquired, to the whole body. That the inflamed part is warmer than the non-inflamed is readily proved, especially in superficial parts, as in the skin, but this does not prove that more w^armth is produced here than is usual, but is probably simply due to the circulation of more blood through the dilated capillaries ; if the inflamed jDart be not w-armer than the blood flowdng to it, it is not probable that it should produce heat. The investigations on this point are numerous and contradictory. The thermometiical measurements of 0. Weber and Hnfsclimidt have given various results; usually the temperature in the wound and in the rec- tum (which has about the w’armth of arterial blood) were equal; occa- sionally the former was higher than the latter, sometimes the reverse; the difference was never great, not being more than a few^ tenths of a degree in any case. Recently 0. Weber has hit on a new method of measurement, the thermoelectric: by his very difficult investigations the question seemed to be decided that the inflamed part is always w-armer than the arterial blood; indeed, that the venous blood coming from the seat of inflammation is warmer than the arterial blood going tc it. Quite recently tliese investigations w^ere repeated in Konigsbers by Jacobson, 3f. Bernhardt, and G. Baudien, with the* final re suit of showing no increase of warmth in the inflamed part. Fi’om the contradiction of the results of observation it is impossible to form a judgment on this point. Nevertheless it seems certain that in the in- flamed part there is not enough heat iDroduced to elevate the tempera- ture of all the blood in the body several degrees. 2. The irritation induced by the inflammation on the nerves of the mflamed part might be supposed as advancing to the centres of Ihe vasomotor (nutrient) nerves ; the excitement of the centres of these