601 GENERAL REMARKS ABOUT TUMORS. greatly. In the first place, the diseased portion of tissue, the first tumor-nodule, may grow in itself, without new jDoints of disease de- veloping in its vicinity ; in the midst of the tumor itself, from the cells collected at a circumscribed spot, new ones constantly form, with a tendency to develop in the same direction, predestined as it were for the type of development taken by the new formation. It was formerly supposed that the distention of the vessels was a very essential indication of inflammatory neoplasia ; numerous researches in this direction have shown me that the enlarg’ement and new for- mation of vessels in tlie development of the first tumor-nodules are not inferior to those in inflammation. It has not yet been proved that there is a softening of the capillary and venous walls, as in inflammation. The original focus of disease may also grow by new foci constantly forming in its immediate vicinity; an organ once diseased in this way is not only compressed by the tumor, and its elements separated, but it becomes more and more diseased, and so becomes infiltrated and destroyed by the tumor, and is finally trans- formed into it; for you have already seen that a neoplasia forms in normal tissue, the matrix ceases to grow, and is partly transformed into the new tissue, partly is destroyed. So in the first ease we have an isolated focus of disease which, once existing, draws the material for its increase from its own cells; in the second case we have a con- tinual extension of the foci of disease. The first variety, the to some extent pure central growth, is decidedly less unfavorable to the organ diseased than the latter, the peripheral growth, which, when it con- tinues ad infinitum^ must cause complete destruction of the org-an, just as when an inflammation or inflammatory new formation continues progressive. A combination of these two modes of growth is the most unfavorable, but unfortunately is quite frequent. If we study the life of the tumor itself further, we find that the neoplastic tissue does not by any means remain stable, but is subject to some changes, such as are also seen in inflammation. From various causes, acute and chronic inflammations may develop in the tumors, i. e., with pain, swellinc, and enlargement of the vessels ; there is an infiltration of small cells into the tissue of the tumor, which may even lead to suppuration; this disease of a tumor is the more frequent the less its elements are or- ganized to a stable vital tissue, esjiecially the less its vascular system is regulated and fully organized. Tumors in which the cell-formation is so excessive and progresses so rapidly that the formation of vessels only follows up the growth of the tumor slowly are least capable of living; slight disturbances then suffice to impede the whole process of development, or, as they do not arrest it entirely, to cause destruction. We must examine somewhat more minutely the metamorphosis of the