729 METHOD OF AMPUTATION. The method of fcrining the flaps by transfixing the limb with a long, pointed knife, and then cutting, usually results with beginners in making a muscular flap, which is occasionally tongue-like, is cov- ered with too little skin, and does not well cover the wound. If before entering the knife we have the skin strongly retracted, and pass the knife flat alongside the bone, we may make good flaj^s ; but it requires more experience and practice than the former methods. Flap operations are possible at any part of a limb, but are not everywhere advisable. By drainage-tubes we may lead off the secre- tions, even in flaps formed from below. If the flaps do not unite by first intention, the after-treatment is always tedious; for we have to guard against cicatricial contraction rolling them in. 3. Finally, in a third method, the wound made is between a circle and a flap ; it is called the oval amputation. The plane of incision of the oval lies obliquely from above down ; the upper part of the oval is more pointed, the lower more rounded. After making the in- cision through the skin, it is to be drawn back, and the soft parts and bone are to be divided, as in the circular operation. For am- putations the oval incision is rarely used, as it has no advantage over the circular or flajj operations. -In exarticulations of the fingers and toes at the metacarpo- and metatarso-phalangeal articulations, or of the big toe or thumb, the oval incision is very useful. In exarticula- tions at the shoulder or hip joint, I would only employ this method when there was not skin enough to form a flap. I have still something to add in regard to preparations, assistants, choice of instruments, and after-treatment of amputations. While the patient is being ana3sthetized, or previously (for it is hard to bring some patients under anaesthesia when their attention is excited by manipulation of the affected part), we carefully cleanse the part with soap and water, especially at the point of operation. Then the bandage for preventing haemorrhage is applied, and taken off again except the upper band. Now one assistant holds the up- per part of the limb, another the lower. In amputations the operator stands so that he may assist in retracting the soft parts, and that the part to be amputated falls to his right; in exarticulations he should stand so that he can himself, with his left hand, control the move- ments of the limb to be removed. For amputations and exarticulations of the toes, we use small knives with blades four or five centimetres long; they should not be too much curved in front, or the point will not enter the joint readily. For exarticulations of the hand and foot, as well as for amputations