386 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. But we may also use other remedies, intended, by increasing the change of tissue, to separate the organic poison fi-om the blood. See- ing the profuse diarrhoea in dogs artificially made septicsemic, and finding them to recover frequently after these diarrhoeas, we might suppose the poison to be most naturally excreted through the intes- tinal canal. In fact, Breslau has had favorable results from repeated doses of laxatives in puerperal fever. I am sorry not to have had similar experience in pyaemia. In this disease diarrhoea is a severe complication, which quicldy induces collajese. It might also be thought advisable to increase the secretory activity by giving emet- ics ; but they are followed by such collapse that we must be careful in their administration. In septicaemia I have often tried to induce profuse perspiration, when the sldn was very dry. This was occasion- ally done by a warm bath, lasting for an hour, and then wrapping in blankets. This occasionally does good ; indeed, I think patients have thus been saved that I had thought incurable. Further trials should be made with this remedy. Copious diuresis also may be induced by plenty of drink, but it has not much effect on the general condition. Lastly, we might think of arresting the further absorjDtion of inju- rious substances from the injured or inflamed part by amputation, even after the aj^pearance of severe constitutional symptoms. In acute cases of septicaemia and pytemia this very rarely has a perma- nently beneficial effect, although there is almost always temporary improvement. But in subacute and chronic pyaemia amputation may, indeed, save life ; unfortunately, however, such cases are rare. So we finally come back to what we said at first, that much may be done to prevent severe traumatic and suppurative fever, but that there is little to be hoped from treatment of these diseases Avhen fully developed.” LECTURE XXVII. / 4. Tetanus; 5. Delirium Potatorum Traumaticum ; 0. Delirium Nervosum and Mania.— Ai>pendi.\ to Chapter XIIL—Poisoned Wounds ; Insect-bites, Snake-bites; Infec- tion from dissooting Wounds.—Glanders.—Carbuncle.—Hydrophobia. Tjie group of diseases which belong to the traumatic and phlogistic infectious conditions, and of which we still have to speak, conqirises tetanus, drunkard’s madness, and the psychical disturbances which so rarely occur after injuries and operations. The views, as to tlieir ori- gin, vary greatly; as, from their symptoms, the processes in question would be referred to irritation of the brain and spinal cord, their cause