SIMPLE FRACTURES OF BONES. 192 cartilage formations in the vicinity of the fracture. Tlie hrohen bone sticks in this cartilage as if the two fragments had been dipped in sealing-Avax and stuck together; the periosteum is still tolerably dis- tinct in the cartilaginous mass, but it is swollen, and its contours are ^ indistinct. Although there are traces of ossification even now, they do not become very decided or evident to the naked eye for some days (perliaps the fourteenth to the twentieth day after the fracture). Then we see the following (Fig. 44): In the vicinity of the fracture there is young soft bone: 1. In the medullary cavity (a). 2. Immediately on the cortical layer (d), and some distance up and down beneath the periosteum, Avhich has disap peared in the whole spindle-shaped callus tumor. 3. In the periphery of the callus, which is still mostly cartilaginous (c). The periosteum Avhich jDreviously lay within the callus has now disappeared; in its place a thickened layer of tissue has formed on the outside of the callus, which represents the periosteum (d). The young bone-sul> stance is soft, white, and in it we may see a kind of structure; for small parallel pieces of bone, corresponding to the transverse axis of the bone, may be distinctly seen, especially on examination with a lens. The cartilaginpus callus formed from the surrounding soft parts, into which the periosteum also has been partly transformed, now j forms an enclosed whole, and ossifies entirely, partly from without (c), j partly from within (d), till finally the ends of the bone stick in bony, j as they previously did in the cartilaginous callus. This bony callus, | which consists entirely of spongy bone-substance, is called by ^ imytren i^TOvisional callus^ As it is completed, the bone is ^ usually firm enough to be again capable of function ; but the callus does not remain in its present condition any more than a recent cica- trix of the soft parts does. A series of changes occurs in it in the course of months or years, for up to this point j^ou may still compare the union to that by sealing-wax, which is not a true organic union. So far the firm cortical substance is only united by loose young bone- substance ; the medullary ca^dty is plugged with bone; the healing is not yet solid ; Nature does far more. We shall now study the subsequent changes; they are confined to the spongy substance of the callus. At a certain time this ceases to increase, and then changes, by reabsorption of the bony substance that has formed in the medullary cavity (Fig. 45), and by the disappearance of a great part of the external callus. Meantime, formation of neAV bone has commenced between the fractured cortical layers, so that this has become solid by the time the external and internal callus disap- pears. This connecting bony substance between the fragments grad- ually increases in density, to such an extent that it becomes as hard as