71 HEALING BY GRANULATIONS. then dirty yellow: at the points where the secretion flows from the wound, fibrine not unfrequently stiffens in drops. If you examine care- fully with a lens, even the third day, you will see numerous red nod ules, scarcely as large as a millet-seed, projecting from the tissue —small granules, granulations, fleshy warts. By the fourth or sixth day these have greatly developed, and gradually join into a fine, granu- lar, bright-red surface—the granulating surface ; at the same time, the fluid flowing from this surface becomes thicker, pure yellow, and of creamy consistence ; this fluid is pus, and, when of the quality here described, it is good pus, pus bonum et laudabile of old authors. Of this normal course there are many varieties, which chiefly de- pend on the parts injured, and the mode of injury; if large shreds of tissue from the surface of the wound die, the wound is longer in clean- ing off, and then you may sometimes see the white, adherent shreds of dead tissues still clinging for days to the surface, most of which is al- ready granulating. Tendons and fasciae are particularly apt to have their circulation so impaired, even by simple incised wounds, that they die to an unexpected extent from the cut surface, while there is little loss of loose cellular tissue or muscle. This is undoubtedly due partly to deficient vascularity of the tendinous parts, partly to their firm- ness, which does not permit rapid collateral dilatation of the vessels; the same is true in injuries of bone, especially of the cortical substance, where there is often death of the injured bone-surface, that requires a long time for detachment. Other obstacles to active development of granulations are constitutional conditions; for instance, in very old or debilitated persons, or badly-nourished children, the develop- ment of granulations will not only be very slow, but they will look very pale and flabby. Hereafter, at the close of this chapter, I will give you a short review of those anomalies of granulation wliich are daily occurrences in large wounds, and, to a certain extent, may be regarded as normal or at least customary. But, to return to the observation of the normally-developing layer of granulations, with the continued secretion of pus, you perceive that the granulations become more and more elevated, and sooner or later attain the level of the skin, and not unfrequently rise above it. With this process of growth, the individual granules become thicker, and more confluent, so that they can hardly be recognized as separate nodules; but the entire surface assumes a glassy, gelatinous appearance. Occasionally the granulations remain for a long time at this stage, so that we have to use various remedies to restrain the proliferating neoplasm Avithin bounds that are requisite for recovery; on the periphery, particularly, the granulations should not rise above the level of the skin, for the cicatrization has to commence at this point.