139 YENESECTIOX. sary result of communication between arteries and veins, or else they may in some cases not develop for some years. Aneurisms of the arteries, in whatever form they come, if they only remained small, would cause no great inconvenience. But in most cases the aneurismal sacs grow larger and larger; functional dis- turbances occur in the affected extremity, and finally the aneurism may rupture, and a profuse haemorrhage terminate life. In most cases the treatment must consist in ligating the aneurismal artery; but of this hereafter. I have considered it practical to explain to you here the development of traumatic aneurisms, as in practice they are m()stly due to punctured Avounds; Avhile in other text-books you will find them systematically treated of among diseases of the arteries. We shall speak, in a separate chapter, of spontaneous aneurisms and their treat- ment. Punctured wounds of veins heal just like those of arteries, so that I need add nothing here to Avhat was said above; we need only re- mark here that extensive coagulations form more readily in veins than in arteries; traumatic venous thrombosis after venesection, for in- stance, is far more frequent than traumatic arterial thrombosis after punctured wounds of arteries, and, what is far worse, the former variety of thrombosis has much more serious results than the latter; on this point 3’ou will perhaps hereafter hear more than will be agreeable to you. We ha\'e frequently mentioned venesection^ Avhich is a very frequent small surgical operation. We shall here briefly revicAV its performance, although 3'ou comprehend such things quicker and better by once see- ing them than I could represent them to you. Should I attempt to tell you under Avhat circumstances venesection should be performed, I should have to enter deeply into the Avhole subject of medicine; quite a large book might be written on the indications and contraindications, the admissibility, the benefits ajid injuries of venesection; hence I pre- fer to say nothing on these points as on so many others Avhich you A\dll pick up in a fcAV minutes at j^our daily visits to the clinics, and for whose theoretical exposition Avithout special cases Ave should require hours. In regard to the history, Ave Avill only mention that, while for- merly venesection Avas performed on any of the subcutaneous veins, noAv it is only done in the veins of the bend of the elboAV. If j’-ou wish to bleed a patient, you first apply a pressure-bandage to the arm, to cause obstruction of the peripheral veins; for this purpose Ave em- ploy a properly-applied handkerchief or the old-fashioned scarlet bleed- ing-ribbon, a firm bandage two or three finger-breadths Avide Avith a buckle; Avhen this is firmly applied the veins of the forearm SAvell up and the vena cephalica and basilica Avith their -corresponding median