OPEN FrwVCTURES AND SUrPURATION OF DONE. 222 an increase of fever, and, generally speaking, this is the more decided the deeper the suppuration. In accidental osteomyelitis and perios- titis the evening temperature of the body not unfrequently rises above one hundred and four degrees Fahrenheit; rapid elevation of tem- perature with chills is, unfortunatel}’’, a frequent symptom ; septicajmia and pyemia, trismus, and delirium potatorum, are especially apt to accompany suppurating fractures, so that I can only repeat here, what I said at the beginning of the chapter, that any open fracture may be or may become a severe and dangerous injury. Hence, the greatest circumspection and care are necessary. I can tell you, from ray own experience, that the most successful operation never gave me such pleasure as the successful union of a severe complicated fracture. Let us now pass to the treatment of open fractures. After the advantages of firm dressings had become apparent, it was natural to try them in modified forms in open fractures; indeed, some time since, Seutin., the inventor of the starch-bandage, used the so-called fenes- trated bandage, i. e., in the firm starch-bandage he made an opening corresponding to the wound in the soft parts, so as to leave the latter open to observation during treatment. The primitive forms of these fenestrated starch and plaster bandages also, Avhich are now often used, had great objections, that may now be considered as overcome. The chief objection to the fenestrated bandage was that the under-band- age and the wadding were readily saturated with pus, which decom- posed and became offensive. Extensive experience has shown me that these objections may be overcome; it is only necessary to make the openings large enough, to round off the edges with strips of muslin attached by plaster, to make the dressing firm by means of ms's position-splints, by introducing strips of wood, etc., and to catch the secretion from the wound in basins placed beneath. If this dress Ing remain firm and clean, the trouble of its first application is Avell repaid, not only by the brilliant success of this mode of treat- ment, but also by the great saving of time in the subsequent care of the wound. For some time I employed plaster-bandages in open fractures in this way : at first I applied them closed, just as in simple fractures, and soon slit them up lengthwise, opened them, and dressed the wound every day or two as required, without moAung the frag- ments, and continued this till the Avound Avas healed, then applied a neAV closed bandage. This method is good for some cases, and shoAvs some good results. The essential thing in these dressings is that, after deciding not to amputate, even the most complicated fractures should be placed in the plaster-dressing immediately after the injury, just as in the case of simple fracture, only Avilh the difference that the Avound should first be covered Avith charpie or compresses previ- ously dipped in lead-Avatcr or solution of chloride of lime, and that