VARICES AND ANEURISMS. 586 but practically they have very little value. I shall only mention in addition that, on subcutaneous bursting of an aneurism composed of all the arterial coats, it assumes more the anatomical peculiarities of an aneurysma traumaticum or spurium. A short time since I saw an apparently healthy man, about fifty years old, who, when turning in bed, had an enormous tumor develop in the thigh, which soon proved to be a diffuse traumatic aneurism; I had no doubt that the femoral artery was diseased, and had suddenly burst at some point in the middle of the thigh. After compression had long been used in vain, the femoral artery was ligated; it proved to be covered with yellow spots ; the ligature healed well and became detached in four weeks, still the aneurism became larger and painful; the sixth week after the ligation gangrene of the foot began ; I then made a high amputa- tion of the thigh; the patient recovered. There was an immense aneu- rysma spurium, and an opening an inch long in the atheromatous fem- oral artery, which was not aneurismatic. The further fate of the aneurism, and its effect on neighboring tissues or the extremity affected, are very important. As regards the anatomical changes in and about an aneurism, one is its increase in size, which not only displaces the neighboring tissues, but, by its pressure and pulsation, causes them to atrophy ; this refers not only to the soft parts but to the bones, which are gradually broken through by the aneurism; the last effect is especially apt to be induced by aneurisms of the aorta and anonyma, which may induce atrophy of the vertebra, sternum, or ribs. A further accompaniment is inflam- mation in the immediate vicinity, which, how’ever, rarely leads to sup- puration, often becomes chronic, and very seldom induces gangrene of the anurism. Lastly, there is often coagulation of blood in the aneurism; hard layers of fibrine may form on the inner surface of the sac, and at last entirely fill it, and so cause a spontaneous oblitera- tion, one variety of cure of the aneurism. The wmrst accident is when the aneurism increases in size, and finally bursts; this may take place outwardly, but more frequently, especially in the large arteries of the trunk, it is inward, perhaps into the oesophagus, tra- chea, thoracic or abdominal cavity; sudden death from haemorrhage is the natural result. It is not our present object to show wnat may be the results of aneurism of arteries of internal organs; I shall merely mention that particles may be detached from the clots which fonn in the aneurismal dilatations, or on the roughnesses of the atheromatous arteries, and may pass as emboli into the peripheral arteries. These emboli occa- sionally cause gangrene; but this is not so frequent as is believed, for usually the coaguloe in aneurisms are lirmlv attached.