ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. 749 25.—P. 505. Among the local symptoms I may add that for each joint certain muscles gradually become permanently contracted ; usually it is the flexors ; in the hip-joint the adductors and rotators are also affected, and the joint is permanently held in such a position as to give lit- tle or no pain. If these pathological positions are caused by the muscular contraction alone, and have not continued too long, they may at once be overcome by anassthesia. But after months or years atrophy begins in the fasciae, and afterward in the muscles, which even under anaesthetics can only be broken up by force. After long disuse the muscles are greatly atrophied by fatty degeneration and cicatricial contraction. The articular capsule too, which was much infiltrated and swollen, as well as the accessory ligaments, also con- tract on the side toward which the joint has been bent; thus, in the case of the knee-joint this contraction would be greatest in the hol- low of the knee. Cases where the disease begins with a seropurulent effusion in the joint (catarrhal, blennorrhoeal synovitis) are rare. I have seen them chiefly in tuberculous patients. The symptoms are at first the same as in chronic dropsy of the joint, but the joint is painful and its function more impaired. Comparatively often ostitis and periostitis near a joint are the causes of synovitis; one or other side of the condyles of the femur, tibia, or humerus, or the posterior surface of the olecranon, become painful ; the pain remains localized for some time at one point ; then there is a doughy^ oedema, and finally an abscess. Meantime the functions of the joint may remain unim- paired for months, till the suppuration (occasionally with acute in- flammatory symptoms) attacks the joints; then the course above described begins. In some cases these abscesses always remain periarticular, and heal before the joint is opened; this might cause periarticular cicatricial contraction, while the joint was perfectly healthy. Lastly, the bones may be primarily attacked by ostitis inalacis- sans ; this occurs particularly in the carpus, tarsus, and capnt femo- ris of feeble patients ; the joints may long remain unaffected, even if periosteal abscesses with great oedema and suppurating fistulre form. In primary diseases outside of the epiphyses muscular con- tractions are less apt to develop than in primary disease of the sj-no- vial membrane and primary subchondral ostitis. 49