SIMPLE FRACTURE OF BONES. 202 be unnecessary, as when there is no dislocation, for instance, in some fractures of the ulna, fibula, etc. In other cases it is very difficult, and cannot always be done perfectly. The obstacles to the reposition may be in the position of the fragments themselves ; one fragment may be wedged into another, or a small fragment lies between the chief ones, so that the latter cannot be brought together accurately; fractures of the lower articular extremity of the humerus are very obstinate in this respect, for small fragments may be so dislocated that neither flexion nor extension of the elbow-joint can be performed perfectly; hence its functions remain permanently impaired. Muscular con- traction forms a second obstacle to the reposition of the fragments; the patient involuntarily contracts the muscles of the broken limb, thus rubs the fragments together or presses them into the soft parts, causing severe pain; this muscular contraction is occasionally almost tetanic, so that, even by great force, it is hardly possible to overcome the opposition. Indeed, formerly these difficulties Avere, to some ex- tent, insurmountable; and, although attempts Avere noAV and then made to attain the object by dividing tendons and muscles, it Avas often only possible to attain an imperfect reposition. All these diffi- culties Avere at once removed by the introduction of chloroform as an anaesthetic. Now, in all cases where Ave do not readily succeed in reposition, we anaesthetize the patient Avitb chloroform, till his mus- cles are perfectly relaxed, and Ave can then usually place the frag- ments in position Avithout difficulty. Some surgeons go so far as to use chloroform in almost all cases of fi-acture, partly for the examina- tion, partly for the application of the dressing. Tliis is unnecessar}’, and may even prove very unjileasant, for some persons, especially those in the habit of drinking, at a certain stage of the anesthesia are affected Avith spasmodic contractions of the extremities, so that, in spite of being carefully held by strong assistants, they rub the frac- tured ends against each other with fearful force, and Ave must be very careful that a sharp fragment does not pierce the skin. This should not frighten you from using chloroform in fractures, Avhen it is neces- sary, but simply AA’arn you against being too free Avith it. Ihe meth- od of reposition is usually as follows : The fractured part is grasped by two strong assistants at the joints above and beloAV the point of fracture, and regular, quiet traction employed, Avhile the surgeon holds the extremity at the point ot li'acture, and, by gentle pressure, attempts to force the fragments into position. All sudden, impul- sive, forced traction is useless, and should be avoided. Here you have to notice two technical expressions; we term the traction on the loAver part of the extremity, extension, that on the upper jiart, counter-extension. In fractures, these arc both made bA*^ the hands