CnilONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 50G ly. At this time the synovia is rarely increased, but is cloudy, or even resembles muco-pus. These changes in the synovial membrane gradu- ally increase; it becomes thicker, more ojdematous, softer, redder; the tufts grow to thick pads, and in places resemble spongy granulations. The surface of the cartilage loses its blue lustre, though it is not yet visibly diseased; but the synovial outgrowths begin to grow over the cartilages from the sides, and to push in between the two adjacent surfaces of cartilage; meantime the capsule of the joint is also thick- ened, and has acquired an evenly, fatty appearance, and is very oedema- tous; this swelling and oedema gradually extend to the subcutaneous tissue, and to the skin. From this point, the changes in the cartilage claim most of our attention. The synovial proliferations, in the shape of red granular masses, advance gradually over the entire surface of the cartilage, and cover it completely, lying over it like a veil (Fig. 93); Fig. 93. DISErnm of a section of a knee-joint (the Interarticnlar cartilages have been left out. .Hie ar- ticular cartilages shaded) with fungous inflammation: a a, ffbrous.capsule; 6 crucial Hot- raent: c, femur; d, tibia; e e, fungous synovial membrane growinir into the cartilage, at/it even grows into the bone; at g are isolated proliflcatious of the granulations into the bone on the border between bone and cartilage. if we attempt to remove this veil, we find that in some places it is attached quite firmly by processes entering the cartilage, just as the roots of an ivy-vine cling to and insert themselves into the wall against which it grows (as is also the case in pannus of the cornea); these roots not only elongate, they spread out, and gradually eat up the cartilage, which, when the covering of fungous prolifications is re- moved, appear first rough here and there, then perforated, and finally disappear altogether; then the fungous prolification extends into the bone, and commences to consume this; the result is fungous caries, as