TREATMENT OF TRAUMxVTIC FEVER, ETC. ' 385 they rnay be regularly occupied in turns. "With the same object, there should not be more than six or eight beds in one ward, so that enough patients may be discharged every week to empty one room. The new patients should always be brought into the ward last cleaned. This is the only way to prevent the extensive development of miasm in hospital. To attain the best possible results in hospital we must have plenty of room, and plenty of money for nurses, linen, etc. We can thus use even badly-located hospitals. Large wards, with twenty or thirty beds, which, from press of patients and other causes, cannot be emptied at will, are very unsuitable. The director of a surgical division should, above all things, have at his disposal a large number of well-ventilated rooms of medium size, which can be emptied and cleaned at certain times. Bad hospitals, and especially badly-kept rooms for surgical patients, are worse than the poorest tenements ; they may become slaughter-pens for the wounded. Sur- geons should never forget that they themselves are often to blame if their patients have erysipelas, hospital gangrene, diphtheria, etc.; for, if, after old customs, we ascribed every thing to the invisible, omni- present, intangible, ethereal miasm and genus epidemicus, it would be death to all our future progress. Coming now to the treatment of traumatic fever, septicmmia, and pyfemia, we may say that, for simple traumatic and suppurative fever, which does not pass the usual limits, we generally use nothing but cooling drinks, fever diet, and a bttle morphine at night to secure good rest. If the fever lasts longer, or assumes a peculiar character, we may resort to febrifuges. Digitalis is here of little use, on account of its slow, uncertain action. Veratria reduces the temperature, but appears to do little good in toxic traumatic fevers; still, further obser- vations must be made on tins point, especially in pymmia. The ac- curate studies of Biermer show that this remedy should be used very carefully. Formerly aconite was highly recommended in pjrtemia by 2'extor. I have seen no good from it. Quinine is the most effica- cious remedy for the intermittent suppurative fever, especially in com- bination with opium; 6-8-16 grains of quinine in the course of the afternoon, and one grain of opium at night, often arrest the chills; in severe suppurative fevers I employ these remedies with benefit; in decided pyaemia they do less good. After careful observation, Lieber- meister found that quinine only showed its antifebrile action in typhus and other infectious diseases with certainty when given to the extent of fifteen grains or more daily. There ai’e plenty of observations, too, on remedies for directly opposing the blood-poisoning. I have found no effect from the antiseptic internal remedies, the acids, chlorine-wa- ter, and sulphurets of the alkalies (which are greatly praised bv PolU).