282 ACUTE KON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT PARTS. from personal observation. First, a nodule as large as a pea or bean forms in the skin ; it is red and rather sensitive. Soon a small white point forms at its apex, the swelling spreads around this centre, and usually attains about the size of a dollar; sometimes the furuncle re- mains quite small, about the size of a cherry; the larger it is, the more painful it becomes, and it may render irritable persons quite feverish. If we let it run its own course, toward the fifth day the central, white point, becomes loosened in the shape of a plug, and pus mixed with blood and detached shreds of tissue is evacuated; three or four days later siqapuration ceases, the SAvelling and redness gradu- ally disappear, and finally only a punctate, scarcely-visible cicatrix remains. AVe rarely have the opportunity of anatomically examining such furuncles in their first stage, as they are not a fatal disease ; but, from what we see of the develojament and from incision, the death of a small portion of skin (perhaps of a cutaneous gland) seems to be the starting-point and centre of an inflammation, during which the blood finally stagnates in the dilated capillaries; by infiltration wdth plastic matter, the tissue of the cutis partly turns to pus, partly becomes gangrenous. The peculiarity in all this is, that such a point of in- flammation should, as a general rule, show no tendency to spread, but should throughout remain circumscribed, and terminate with the de- tachment of the little plug above mentioned. There is no doubt that in many cases the cause of single furuncles is purely local. Some parts where the secretion of the cutaneous glands is particularly strong, as the perinmum, axilla, etc., are espe- cially predisposed to furuncles; they are also particularly common in persons who have very large sebaceous glands and so-called^ pim- ples, maggots, or comedones. But there are also undoubtedly consti- tutional conditions, diseases of the blood, which dispose to the forma- tion of numerous furuncles on various parts of the body. This morbid diathesis is called fio'unculosis ; should it continue long, it may prove very exhausting; the patients grow thin, and are greatly pulled down by pain and sleepless nights; children and wealdy old persons may die of the disease. It is very popular to refer furuncles to full-blooded- ness and fatness ; it is believed that fatty food predisposes to them. In my country (Pomerania) they say that persons Avho suffer much from pustules and furuncles have “bad blood.” I should very mucli doubt the truth of the supposition that fatty food especially disposes to furuncles. You will often find that miserable, atrophic children, and emaciated, sickly people, are frequently attacked by furuncle, and, although the lack of care of the skin has something to do with this, it is not the sole cause. On the other hand, it is also true that well-