TREATMENT OF GANGLION. 529 dorsal surface of the hand, we take the flexed hand of the patient be- fore us, place the two tliumbs close together on the ganglion, and make strong pressure ; this sometimes ruptures the sac, the fluid is effused into the subcutaneous tissue, and then readily reabsorbed. When this method succeeds readily, there is not ranch objection to it, except that it does not always cause a radical cure. The small subcutaneous opening of the sac soon closes, the fluid collects again, and the disease continues as before. If we cannot rupture the sac with the thumbs, it has been recommended to do so with a quick blow by a broad hammer; although this succeeds now and then, I would not recommend it to you, for if unskilfully done it may cause a severe contusion, whose consequences we cannot always master. When the sac is too thick to rupture with the finger, I employ subcutaneous dis- cision; I pass a narrow, short, curve-pointed knife [Dieffenhach's tenotome) horizontally into the sac, and with the point of the knife make numerous incisions on the inner wall of the sac, I then draw the knife slowly out, meantime pressing the fluid out of the sac. I then at once apply a compress, envelop the hand and forearm in a wet bandage, to prevent any extensive motion, and have the forearm car- ried in a sling four or five days. Then the bandage is removed, the small opening is healed, and the ganglion does not usually return, as it is apt to do after simple evacuation. The entire hernial sac has often been entirely removed, sometimes successfully without subse- quent inflammation, but at other times with suppuration of the sheath or loss of motion of the finger, so that I do not recommend this pro- ceeding to you. The difference in result after extirpation of these sacs may depend on whether there is a large or small commnnication with the sheath of the tendon, or whether there be none; that the latter state does occur I have satisfied myself by examination of the cadaver; but I cannot say whether in such cases the sac near the sheath of the tendon is newly formed, or whether the opening, b}’ Avliich most of these hernige of the sheaths communicate with the lat- ter, has been obliterated in the course of time. The treatment of extensive dropsies of the sheaths of tendons in the palm of the hand and forearm is much more difficult, since, for various reasons, subcutaneous discision is not available here, and re- sorbents are of little use ; the only thing left is to try other methods, which often at least induce some suppuration. Take into considera- tion then whether it be really necessary to do any thing severe. If the disturbance be not so decided as to greatly interfere with the pa- tient’s business, you had better leave things alone. But, if somethin^ must be done, your choice is almost limited to two methods, viz.: an extensive incision and punction, with subsequent injection of iodine.