CONGENITAL LUXATIONS. 251 the soft parts be not great, we may sometimes hope for a cure by suppuration, with a subsequent stiff joint; but, as experience shows, this is always a dangerous experiment. According to the principles of modern surgery, in such cases we avoid amputation by dissecting out and sawing off the fractured articular ends of the bones so as to make a simple wound. This is the regular total resection of a joint, an operation concerning which very extensive observations have been made during the last twenty years, and of which modern times is justly proud; by its means many limbs have been preserved, which, according to the old rules of surgerjq should unhesitatingly have been amputated. In regard to their danger, these resections vary greatly according to the joint on which they are made, so that it is difficult to make any general remarks about them. But, in a subsequent section (in the treatment of chronic fungous diseases of the joints), we shall study tills very important point more carefully; what has been said will give you a general idea of a resection of the joint. CONGENITAL LUXATIONS. Congenital luxations are rare, and we must distinguish them from luxationes inter partum acquisitm, i. e., those that have resulted at birth from manoeuvres in extracting the child, and which are merely simple traumatic luxations which may be reduced and cured. Al- though congenital luxations have been observed in most of the joints of the extremities, they are particularly frequent in the thigh, and not unfrequently occur on both sides at the same time. The head of the bone stands somewhat above and behind the acetabulum, but in many cases it can readily be replaced. As a rule, the disease is first noticed when the child begins to walk. The most noticeable symptom is a peculiar wabbling gait, which is caused by the head of the bone standing behind the acetabulum so tliat the pelvis inclines forward, and also because in walking the head of the thigh moves up and down; tliere is never any pain. To examine the child more accurately, ycu may unclothe it entirely and watch its gait; then lay it on the back and compare the length and position of the extremities. If the luxa tion be one-sided, the luxated limb will be sliorter tlian the other, and the foot turned inward; if you fix the pelvis, you may often reduee the dislocation by simple traction downward. The anatomical exami- nation of such joints lias led to the following results : not only is the head of the bone out of the socket, but tlie socket is irregularly formed—too shallow; later in life, in adults, it is greatly compressed