76 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. give its red appearance. Tlie extensive vascular loops that must form on the surface of the wound, and which in the diagram (Fig. C) are too small and too few, commence, with the growth of the surround- ing granulation tissue, to elongate and become more tortuous; tow- ard the fourth or fifth day new vessels develop as fine lateral capil- lary communication, as in healing by first intention, and the tissue is soon traversed by an excessive number of vessels, which have so much effect on the appearance of the entire granulation surface that it is hardly recognizable on the cadaver, where the fulness of the ves- sels is wanting, or is at least less marked than during life, and the tissue consequently appears pale, relaxed, and much less thick. The question arises, Wlience come these remarkable, small, gradually-con- fluent red nodules, which are visible to the naked eye ? Why does not the surface look even ? Indeed, this is frequently the case ; the granules are by no means always distinctly defined; but it is not easy to explain the cause of their form. It is usually assumed that the granules are to be regarded as imitations of the cutaneous papilla?; but, independent of the fact that it is incomprehensible why such structures should be imitated in muscle and bone, and that the gran- ules are usually ten times as large as the cutaneous papillae, this is no real explanation. The appearance of the granules, doubtless, de- pends on the arrangement of the vascular loops into tufts, on certain boundaries between the different groups of vessels. Hence we might suppose that the vascular loops acquire this form without known cause. Still, it seems to me natural to compare them to the circum- scribed capillary districts, already formed in the normal tissues, of which we have numerous examples, especially in the skin and in fat. You know that every sweat and sebaceous gland, every hair-follicle and fat-lobule, has its nearly-closed capillary net-work, and, by the enlargement of such capillary net-works, the peculiar closed vascular forms of the granules might arise. In fact, in the cutaneous and fatty tissue you will find the individual fleshy growths, joarLicularly sharply and clearly defined, while this is more rarely the case in muscle, where these bounded capillary districts do not occur. It can only be decided by artificial injections of fresh granulations, whether this explanation is correct; till then, it remains simply an attempt to refer this pathological new formation to noi-mal anatomical con- ditions. The following sketch, in which, on account of the great enlarge- ment, and the small injured district, nothing can be seen of the granu- lar layer, may serve you as a diagram of the development of the gran- ulation tissue with its vessels, and of its relation to pus and to the subjacent matrix, as it has developed from Fig. 4.