518 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. complished by tlie careful application of cataplasms, compresses wet with warm water, or even the continued use of warm baths for weeks. This treatment maybe indicated when the course of tlie disease is ex- ceedingly torpid, when bad-looking fistulous ulcers, deficient v’ascularity of the granulations, or bad, thin secretion, seems to indicate a moder- ate irritation of some kind. However, when high teni])eratures are applied, they should not act too long, or their effect will be lost, and there will be complete relaxation of the parts, instead of the fluxion that it was proposed to excite. From the above description of the benefits of treatment, 3mu may see that in fungous inflammations of the joints the results are gener- ally good, if we leave out of consideration the greater or less stiff- ness of the joint which remains; this is particularl}'^ the case if the patient is treated early. Still, some cases are not cured, in spite of the most careful treatment; this is partly due to the anatomical con- dition of the joint, partlj”^ to the general health of the patient. For anatomical reasons, disease of the joints of the hands or feet is the most unfavorable; from the many small bones and joints affected, the progress is usually excessively tedious ; the disease may begin quite chronic at one of the small joints of the hand or foot, may remain stationary at this point for a time, then spread to the next tAvo, again halt a Avhile, or even recede; but a neAV joint is attacked; suppui-a- tion begins first in one place, then in another, the patient grows anasmic and weak, he is condemned to inaction for years, and finally longs to have the affected limb amputated, so that he maj" once again feel well, after his j’^ears of suffering. In other cases a scrofulous or tuberculous cachexia gradually induces anmmia, indigestion, fatt}’’ de- generation of the internal organs, tuberculosis of the lungs, etc., so that from the general health of the patient we must give up all hopes of a cure. If, under such circumstances, we leaA’e the disease to itself, the patients die after j-ears of suffeiing; the end comes the sooner the larger the joint affected (knee, hip), and the greater the number simul- taneousl}' affected, as is apt to be the case in scrofula and tuberculosis. Under such circumstances we may resort to two modes of treatment: 1. Give up the limb to save tlie life, that is, amputate y 2. Give uj) the attempt to cure the joint-affection, cut out the diseased ends of bone, so as to save both life and limb, that is, resect the joint. Co7uparing these two remedies theoreticalh', there can be no doubt th.'it reseclion is preferable to ani])utation, and in principle this is ccr- tainlj' true; modern surgery is justly proud of the institution of le- section of joints. Nevertheless, certain circumstances inav combine to render am2)utation preferable in an}’ given case ; chief among these