TUMORS. G54 growth, but the reverse of this never occurs. Usually, sarcomata develop in strong, well-nourished, often in particularly healthy and fat persons; I saw a medullary sarcoma of the mamma in a blooming, strong, healthy girl eighteen years old ; she died of sarcoma of the lungs a few months after operation. The mode of development of sarcomata which appear successively is very charaoteristic. The first tumor is completely extirpated; after a time, in, under, or near the cicatrix, a new tumor appears; this also is completely removed; again, a new tumor appears at the point of operation, or at a slight distance from it, and near it other new ones; the patient begins to emaciate ; possibly further operations are not practicable, marasmus occurs, pos- sibly lung or liver tumors, with their symptoms, develop ; the patient dies from suppuration from the primary tumor, or from disease of in- ternal organs. The course just described differs from that of carci- noma, because in the latter continuous recurrence is the most frequent, while in sarcoma the regional predominates, provided the tumor has been entirely extii’pated. Tliis may readily be explained by the fact that the bounds of infiltrated carcinoma are much more difficult to determine than are those of encapsulated sarcoma : hence, ceteris pari- bus^ the latter may be more certainly removed; if portions of sar- coma be left, of course there will be continuous recurrence. After comjjlete extirpation of sarcoma, years may elapse before the regional recurrence, and sarcoma may always remain a local trouble for years, possibly till death. I know one case of fibro-sarcoma of the back of the head, where it was twenty-three years from the development of the first tumor till death from recurring tumors ; meantime, the j^atient was operated on five times, and, on each occasion, he was cured for some time. From an old woman I extirpated a medullary sarcoma (alveolar cancerous form. Fig. 138) from the deltoid muscle; the wound had scarcely healed when a new sarcoma, like the first, formed in it; now the woman remained i3crfectly well four years, then a new tumor came in the deltoid ; it was removed by an operation, probably imperfect, and recurred in the incomplete cicatrix; exarticulation of the arm was followed by recurrence in the pectoral and latissimus muscles, and death from sarcoma of the lungs and pleurisj'. A year since, I extir- pated a melanotie, large-celled sarcoma from the scalp of an old man, from whom Schuh had, six years previousl}'’, removed a similar tumor; up to the present time there has been no recurrence. When we am- putate the thigh for sarcoma of the leg, after years it may recur in the amputation-cicatrix, and be followed by sarcoma of the lungs. 1 he local tendency to recur could be explained by an extensive sjjrinkling of seed in the vicinity of a tumor, if the recurrences succeeded each other rapidly, but, when years elapse between the recurrences, this ex-