528 TREATMENT OF GANGLION. manus to tlie forearm, under the ligamentum carpi volare and back again. The fingers are generally flexed and cannot be fully extended; the movements of the hand and fingers are somewhat limited; there is not necessarily any pain, and the patients do not usually apply to a surgeon till the disease has attained a high grade. Another form of this disease is partial hernial ectasia of the sheath of the tendon, with dropsy. On the sheath there forms a sac-like pro- trusion, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, containing an abnormal amount of synovia of the sheath. Fig. 9T. DlaQrram of the onlinary gniii'lion. a, tendon; b, sheath of the tendon with dropsical hernial lirotnision upward; c, skin. In ordinary surgical language this is called a ganglion when it comes on the back of the hand. It is of far more frequent occurrence than dropsy of tlie whole sheath of the tendon, but it only comes at certain places. Ganglia are most common on the dorsal surface of the ^vrist, where they arise from the sheaths of the extensor tendons; they are more rare on the volar surface of the hand and higher up the fore- arm, rarer still on the foot, where I have found them most frequently on the sheaths of the peroneal tendons. These ganglia usually con- tain a thick, mucous, vitreous-looking jelly. The contents of previous- ly-described extensive exudations in the sheaths of the tendons may also consist of clear jelly ; but frequently there are also innumerable white bodies, like melon-seeds, which are not organized, but usually consist of pure amorphous fibrine. These bodies may be present in such numbers that no fluid can be evacuated on puncturing these sacs. Sometimes Ave can diagnose these fibrine-kernels beforehand, from their giving rise to a strong friction-sound, such as occurs in subacute inflammation of the sheath of the tendons. In the treatment, we must, above all, bear in mind that ive should avoid any operation that might induce sujijiurative inflammation of the sheath of the tendon, and might disable for a long time or possibly cause a stiff hand in a patient who had been but little inconvenienced by his ganglion. Remedies, such as mercury and iotliiie, which so stimulate reabsorption in cases of acute or subacute inflammation, are of little use hci-e. The sim]ilest and their most frequent o]icration is rupture of the ganglion. If, as is customary, the ganglion be on the