TUMORS. GG8 The tendency to horny excrescence, rare as it is, rather belongs to ad- vanced age, just as most of the other epidermoid neoplasia?, of which we shall hereafter speak. Anatomically, hystricismus would also be- long to the above forms of horny growths. Ilystricismus, or porcupine- disease of the skin, is a peculiar variety of papillary hypertrophy, with hornifjdng of the epidermis of such a nature that porcupine-like formations develop on the cutis. Like ichthyosis (a scaly thickening of the epidermis over the whole body), this affection is mostly congen- ital ; but I have seen analogous formations in some forms of elephan- tiasis nostras. The i?redisposition to warts is entirely devoid of danger, and in many cases ceases spontaneously. Popularly, warts are considered contagious, jjossibly not altogether without reason. I saw a case where an ordinary wart formed on the side of a toe, and, on the part of the neighboring toe lying in contact with it, another wart formed. Horny excrescences are more important; although they occa- sionally break and fall off spontaneously, they grow again if they are not operated upon; indeed, in some cases epithelial cancer forms at the point where a horny excrescence was located. In most cases warts may be left to themselves. As in all dis- eases that recover spontaneously in the course of time, there are numerous popular remedies : old women regard the placing of a hand covered with warts on the hand of a corj5se, or rubbing it with various leaves and w^eeds, as sovereign remedies. If you wish to get rid of certain large warts that are peculiarly annoying to their owners, it may best be done by caustics. For this purpose I use fuming nitric acid, ajDplying it to the wart and the next day cutting off' the cauterized portion till a drop of blood flows, then repeating the cauterization. This should be continued till the wart has entirely disappeared. Horny excrescences can only be cured radically by cutting out the piece of skin on which they are located. By soft, sarcomatous papillomata, we mean those neoplasia? that have the form of papillte, consist of soft connective or sarcomatous tissue, and are covered by an epithelial coating analogous to that of the matrix. Sarcomatous papilla? (soft warts) occur rarely on the cutis, but occasionally appear congenitively on one side of the face as cock’s- comb-like proliferations. The broad and also the pointed condyloinata on the mucous membranes are products of syiihilis and of the specific irritating pus of gonorrhoea; we do not class them among tumors. Sarcomatous papillomata develop much more frequently on the