29 TREATMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE—COMPRESSION. tissue with a small scalpel, then ligate carefully and accurately; in most cases, when you have the central and peripheral ends exposed in the wound, you should ligate both, for the anastomoses in the arterial system are so free that, if the peripheral end does not bleed at once, it may do so later. The wound from which a copious haemorrhage comes may be very small, as a punctured or gun-shot wound. From your anatomical knowledge you should know what large vessel may be injured by such a wound. If, from the free haemorrhage or its frequent recurrence after compression, you are satisfied that ligation is the only certain remedy for the bleeding, you have the following alternatives: either enlarge the existing wound by careful, clean incisions, and seek for the vessel in the wound while the artery is compressed above, and ligate the divided ends of the artery; or else, while you have the bleeding vessel compressed in the wound, you seek the central part of the vessel above the wound, and then ligate in the continuit}\ Both op- erations demand accurate anatomical knowledge of the positions of the arteries, and practice. Which of these two operations you sliall choose depends on how you can soonest prudently attain your object, and on which of them will require the smaller new wound. If you think you can expose the artery in the wound without enlarging it much, choose this method as the more certain; but if you consider this very difficult, if at the seat of the wound the artery lies deep under muscles and fascia, especially in very muscular or fat persons, make a regular ligation of the artery above (toward the heart from) the wound. I shall not here discuss the points chosen after years of trial, on theoretical and practical grounds, for the ligation of arteries. In op- erative surgery, in the text-books on surgical anatomy, and especiallv in the operative course, you will be instructed on this point, and must attain practice in certainly finding, neatly exposing, and carefully ligating, the artery, in doing which, you cannot accustom yourself to too much pedantry and technicality. Although the value of the ligature is recognized by all surgeons of the present day, still attempts have been constantly made to find simpler substitutes which should be just as safe. Some have con- sidered it (unjustly, as it seems to me) a great evil to leave in the wound a silk tliread and a portion of ligated vessel to die and be- come putrid. I pass over the attempts and proposals made for allow- ing the ligature to heal in the cicatrix, and merely mention torsion of the bleeding artery as a mode of closing the vessel mechanically till its walls grow together. The bleeding vessel is seized with strong, accurately-closing forceps, drawn forward half an inch, and twisted on its axis five or six times ; I usually draw it out as far as