252 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. and filled with fat; when the ligamentum teres exists, it is abnoi mally long ; the head of the bone is not properly developed ; in some cases it is not half as large as normal; the articular cartilage is usually completely formed, the capsule very large and relaxed. Under such circumstances, you may understand that it is exceed- ingly difficult, in most cases impossible, to effect a cure. If the head be only partially developed, the upper border of the acetabulum al> sent, and the capsule enormously distended, how shall we restore the normal conditions ? As to the causes of this malformation, the most varied hypotheses have been advanced; the op23ortunity has never occurred of studying it in the embryo. There is an arrest of develop- ment from some cause. It is assumed that these disturbances followed previous pathological processes in the foetus, and the most probable hypothesis is that, in very early embryonal life, the joint was filled with an abnormal quantity of fluid, and so distended as to induce ru}> ture or at least great dilatation of the capsule. Hoser thinks that abnormal intra-uterine 230sitions may give rise to these luxations. Cure of this state has been attempted in those cases wdiere direct examination has shown the existence of a tolerably-developed head. In such cases the luxation has been reduced, and attempts made to preserve the normal position of the thigh by aid of dressings or band- ages—the child being kept quiet for a year or more. The result of this treatment, wdiich requires great patience on the jsart of the sur- geon and parents of the child, is shown by experience to be only jDartially satisfactory, as after this treatment there lias only been an improvement of the gait, but rarely a perfect cure; and, when you read in orthopedic pamphlets of the frequent cure of congenital luxations, you may be sure that in most cases there have been errors of diag- nosis, or there is intentional deception. Congenital luxations of the thigh are never dangerous to life, but, since they are accompanied by a change in the centre of gravity of the body, in the course of time they have an effect on the position and curvature of the vertebral column ; this, and a limping, w^abbling gait, are the only inconveniences they cause. There can only be a hope of successful treatment in very early youth ; but, as the surgeon cannot promise a successful result in less than one to three years, few patients are put under treatment. I will here mention a very rare occurrence, W’hich I have only met with once. In certain movements the tendon of the long head of the biceps brachii may slip out of its groove and hang on the bor- der of the greater or lesser tubercle; then the arm stands fixed in a slightly abducted position. If we hold the shoulder-blade steady and relax the tendon by slowly raising the arm, then by slightly