TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 380 tient becomes pyemic cannot be decided any more accurately than can the passage of primary traumatic fever into septicosmia. I retain the designation “ pj-asmia ” for the disease just described. I have told you that the reabsorption of pus is the cause ; intermittent course of the fever, with rapidly-increasing marasmus, the chief symptom ; and the metastatic inhammations very essential anatomical conditions; but it is sometimes very difficult to decide whether a given case shall be termed severe traumatic fever, septicmraia; or severe supjjurative fever, pyaemia. Tire chills may not oceur; then it is difficult to de- termine the intermittent course of the fever ; the metastases may not be diagnosticated during life. If you have a case of osteomyelitis with frequent chills, if the patient dies and you find no metastases, is that pyaemia ? Or an old marasmic man has a compound fracture; he dies with symptoms of complete exhaustion in the fourth week, Avith- out having had very high fever or chills ; you find no metastases ; is that pyaemia ? For the beginner who would like to have every thing Avell systematized, these questions, and their doubtful ansAvers, are A'^ery embarrassing. You will find surgeons Avho call the above cases pyaemia, others Avho term them simply intense suppurative fever or febrile marasmus. If you adhere to the above description, and haA^e correctly comprehended the relation of infection to A'^enous throm- bosis and embolism, it is to be hoped you will not be perplexed about the names. Indeed, it is scarcely possible to make a name for every link betAveen septicaemia, puralent infection, diffuse metastatic inflam- mations, thrombosis, embolism, etc. For instance, septicaemia occurs Avithout a trace of metastases, Avith diffuse metastases, with throm- bosis and embolism ; purulent infection Avithout a trace of metastases, with diffuse metastases and thrombi, with thrombi alone, Avith thrombi and emboli; there are thrombi Avith local sequences without emboli, Avith emboli, with haemorrhagic effusions, Avith apoplexies, etc. Be- sides the words already given, some others have been introduced to designate combinations of the various processes. For pure jDurulent infection (infection with thin, bad pus—ichor) Virchow has proposed the name ichorrheernia. 0. Weber uses tlie name embolheemia for the condition in which emboli are found in the blood. The classification given by Meuter, in his excellent Avork on this subject, appeai-s to me very practical. In pure cases of purulent infection Avithout metastases he calls the disease “pyohasmia simplex;” in cases A\fith metastases, “ pyohsemia multiplex.” The course of purulent infection is usually acute (8-10 days), often subacute (2-4 Aveeks), rarely chronic (1-3-5 months). The ra- pidity of the acute cases is due partly to the intensity and frequent repetition of the infection, partly to the extent of the metastases