FIBROMATA. 623 Sometimes the nerve-fibromata follow the nerve-trunks and form nod- ular cords (plexiform neuromata, Verneuil) (Fig. 118), on whose con- lluence, as already stated, the peculiar appearance of the cut surface of the fibroma (Fig. 115) occasionally depends. Fibroma is rare in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; in the glands, except, perhaps, in the mamma, it hardly ever occurs. The fibrous tumors just enumerated are particularly apt to develop in middle age (from thirty to fifty years) ; they are rarer in youth, and still more rare in advanced age. Wlien we find them in the uterus of old women, there will probably have been there many years. Only fibroid neuromata, and bone and periosteal fibromata, occur in young persons, not exactly in children (though I saw one case of neuro-fibroma in a boy seven years old), but usually after puberty. Fibromata are somewhat more frequent in women than in men; uterine fibromata develop about the thirty-fifth to the forty-fifth year, although the trouble from them is often experienced later; they are rather more frequent multiple than solitary; periosteal fibromata usually remain sohtary, but not unfrequently return, though, perhaps, not for years (regional recurrence; relation to sarcoma). Usually the growth of fibroma is purely central, and they arc not infectious ; but infectious fibromata are said to occur. Several such tumors near together unite, infiltrate the surrounding parts, and occasionally cause fibroid degen- eration of the neighboring muscles, bones, and lymphatic glands. The infectious fibromata that I have seen were always fibro-sarcomata; like pure sarcomata, they may appear as metastases in the lungs. Fibromatous neuromata are quite frequently multiple, especially in different branches of the same nerve. Some time since I extirpated six neuromata from one man ; three from the left arm, three from the left lower extremity. Cases have been seen where there were twenty or thirty neuromata at once. Pure fibromata usually grow very slowly, and in age their growth is occasionally checked. This is best known of fibroma of the uterus, which usually ceases to grow after the change of life, and then often becomes calcareous. Combinations with other tissue-formations, es- pecially with sarcoma, as already stated, occur, and take place in such a way that the primary tumors present a fibrous consistence, while the recurring tumors and secondary tumors resulting from infection are soft cellular sarcomata. I have seen such cases. A man about twen- ty-five years old, of healthy appearance, had a libro-sarcoma as large as a walnut, in the abdominal walls; it was entirely removed ; a new tumor appeared in the wound; subsequently several soft tumors aj> peared at other points on the surface of the body ; at the same tune the patient became marasmic and died in a few months; the whole lung was filled with soft sarcomatous tumors.