692 TUMORS. attacked by this form; it is most frequent between the fiftieth and sixtieth year, and I find it as often in women as in men. Often the whole cutaneous surface, and especially that of the face and hands, appears very dry, and is covered by numerous dry, flat, yellow epider- mis-crusts, as well as by numbers of small infiltrations, which often disappear again. This cancerous infiltration extends very slowly; occasionally it is six or eight years before a portion of skin as large as a dollar, or a side of the nose, or an ej^elid, or portion of the ear, is destroyed; it rarely proceeds more rapidly. As the patients are gen- erally old, they occasionally die of other diseases, and, for the same reason, there is often no recurrence after operation. But, even in cases not operated on or treated in any way, this form of carcinoma appears infectious in but few cases; the infection never extends beyond in- filtration of the lymphatic glands, which does not occur till late, and then goes on just as slowly as the primary infection. Some writers have wished to banish this form of cutaneous cancer from the lists of carcinomata, and to place it among chronic inflammations as ulcus rodens [Hutchmson), or as a form of lupus peculiar to old persons. The various combinations of this neoj^lasia with distinctly-marked cancer in some points of the infiltrated edges, the possibility of its changing to proliferating cancer of the skin, and some other anatomi- cal and clinical peculiarities, render it certain, in my opinion, that this form of infiltration and ulceration belongs among the cancers, and is the mildest and most feebly infectious among them. {b.) The second part of the body where this form of carcinoma is frequent is about the genitals. The portio vaginalis uteri, vagina, labia minora, and the clitoris, the penis, especially the glans and pre- puce, are the parts most frequently afl'ected. Of all these parts, the portio vaginahs uteri is especially liable to the disease, and here car- cinoma ulcerates rapidly, and, as the surface of the tumor becomes deeply fissured and assumes the appearance of a cauliflower, this is often called cauliflower cancer, but, as sarcomatous laapillomata may ^ produce the same forms, this designation is uncertain. On all of the above localities the ulcerated tumor may have a destructive ul- cerating or a fungous character, it may also be either infiltrated or superficial. The separation of uterine cancer is accompanied by very badly-smelling sanies, and often with repeated paj-enchymatous hmmorrhages. As regards the subsequcTit course of the disease, the retroperitoneal lymphatic glands are affected sooner or later; death usually results from marasmus; in these cases, also, wo very rarely find metastasis in the internal organs, except in the neighboring glands which are directly infected. (e.) Of other parts of the body that require the attention of the