CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 550 ma}' be half dislocated outwardly and posteriorly, so that the sui faces which belong together no longer lie in apposition, and in the abnormal position there is no motion at all, or only a slight amount. Besides these causes of immobility which lie more or less in the joint, there may be external ones, especially the above-mentioned muscular contractions, as well as cicatrices which may become adherent to the muscles, tendons, or bones, and thus materially aid in fixing the joint in a false position. Generally, the diagnosis of anchylosis is not difficult; but it may not be easy to decide which of the above-mentioned factors should be blamed for the deficiency or entire absence of motion. When the stiffness is complete, we readily suppose that there is bony anchylosis, but this is not always the case; very short, strong adhesions, espe- cially if very broad, must also cause absolute immobility. The longer such an anchylosis remains entirely immovable, the greater the prob- ability that there is bony anchydosis; even when the joint is propor- tionately little diseased, and the greater part of the articular cartilage is normal, if the joint has remained at rest many y^ears (perhaps only as a result of shrinkage of the capsule), complete bony anchydosis will often form gradually; for even a healthy joint will finally become anchydosed if kept immovable for years; motion is an absolute ne- cessity for the continued health of the symovial membrane and carti- lage ; you may even conclude this to be the case from the fact that all the articulations which are subject to little or no motion (as the inter- vertebral, jDclvic, and sternal), have a very slightly-developed symovial membrane, and are very deficient in cartilage. When the motion of tlie joint ceases, the secretion of a useful synovia is arrested, the sy- novial membrane becomes diy, tough, the cartilage becomes filamen- tary, and the entire beautiful apparatus finally changes to a cicatricial connective tissue which may ossify; then the function of the joint ceases. We have made these statements for the purpose of calling attention to the possibility of deciding, from the duration of an im- movable anchylosis, about its firmness. But if the anchydosis be mov- able, even if very slightly, the synovial membrane is rarely destroyed; part of the cartilage also is usually preserved in such cases. We may be greatly deceived as to the mobility or immobility of anchydosis, if we leave out of consideration the tension of the muscles ; frequently, we do not fully comprehend the amount of this mechanical hinderance, till we arrest the muscular contractility by anaesthesia, which must be pushed to the point of total relaxation of the muscles. Now, what is to be done for these anchyloses ? Can we render the stiff joint movable again ? In most eases this question can be an- swered affirmatively. Can we permanently preserve this mobility and