TUMOK ALDUS. 507 we have already learned; as a result of the changes from chronio inflammation, the bone is destroyed in the manner before described, and here you have the whole course and the relation of fungous in- flammation of the joint to caries. The morbid process advances un- equally ; one condyle of a joint may be almost consumed while another partly preserves its cartilaginous surface. The other parts of the sy- novial membrane may also proliferate outwardly toward the capsule; capsule, subcellular tissue, and skin, are transformed at one place or another into fungous granulations, with or without suppuration, and thus we have external openings, and fistulm, which either communicate directly with the joint, or with a synovial sac. Here let us stop a moment to notice what may be seen with the microscope at the affected part; on this point I can give you least that is new. The normal sjmovial membrane consists of loose con- nective tissue with moderately rich capillary net-work, which forms complicated folds in the tufts; on the surface of the membrane there is a simple layer of endothelium, composed of flat polygonal cells, just as there is on most serous membranes. The tissue of the membrane is gradually permeated with cells, becomes softer, loses its firm, fibrous character, and the vessels dilate and increase decidedly. The en- dothelium is destroyed in limited layers of flat scales; its place is sup- plied by small, round, newly-formed cells, which soon unite with the constantly-degenerating tissue of the synovial membrane, and cease to be distinguishable as separate layers. Through the progress of the plastic infiltration the synovial membrane gradually loses ils former structure; the connective tissue, filled with innumerable new cells, gradually becomes homogeneous, and from the constantly-increasing vascularization the tissue histologically exactly resembles that of gran- ulations. In these spongy granulations small white nodules form here and there ; these are sometimes like mucous tissue, some- times they are composed chiefly of pus-cells and even gianf-cells. Anatomically there is no objection to calling these nodules “ tuber- cles ” {Kuster), but we then run the risk of regarding them as the expression of the infectious disease now known as “ tuberculosis.” Similar changes take place on the surface of the cartilage, particularly at the points where it is covered by the fungous granulations. The cartilage-cells begin to divide up rapidly, while the hyaline intercel- lular substance melts, and is dissolved (Fig. 94); if from such a changed, perforated cartilage you cut a superficial piece parallel to the surface, around the defect you always find numerous cartilage- cells commencing to proliferate, and of course there is at the same time atrophy of the cartilage-tissue. At the points whore the carti- lage is thus transformed to a non-vascular cellular tissue, it melts in