55 Ux\ION OF WOUNDS—IRRITATION. cal, that we cannot attach any value to it, Lotze asserts that there is no objection to the supposition that capillaries are afifected differently from arteries by irritation; by nervous influence they may expand ac- tively on irritation, by their molecules separating. But this view is pure hypothesis, which not only has no analogy, but is even opposed to recent observations. It is well known that, with the microscope, we can follow the circulation in the smaller arteries and veins, as Avell as in the capillaries of the web in the foot, in the mesentery and tongue of the frog, or in the wing of a bat; but the immediate effect of a mild chemical or mechanical irritant does not at once show in the capillaries, but first in contraction of the smaller arteries, occasionally also of the veins ; this is very evanescent, of scarcely a second’s dura- tion, indeed, it often escapes observation, and we then suppose that its dm-ation and grade are too slight for us to measure. This brief contraction is followed by the dilatation, whose immediate cause is indistinct even on microscopical observation. We shall soon see that this is insufficient, that the fluxion is the result of paralysis of the ves- sels, active as the symptom appears. Even the recent very interest- ing- observations of Goluhew, who had the kindness to show me that the capillaries of the nictitating membrane of the frog contract trans- versely, as the result of strong electrical shocks, did not appear to me, on thinking the matter over, to apply perfectly to the question of fluxion. Virchoio appears to think that the irritation, which is certainly the immediate cause of the contraction, is followed by quick fatigue of the muscles of the vessels ; that after a tetanic contraction there is a relaxation, just as in irritated nerves and muscles—a view which may find some support in a communication from Dubois-JReymond about the painful tetanus of the muscles of the vessels in the head as a cause of headache on one side, so-called hemicrania, since this sup- posed tetanus of the muscles of the vessels, induced by strong excite- ment of the cervical portion of the sympathetic, was certainly followed by their relaxation and great distention of the vessels, and shortly by symptoms of cerebral congestion. But, in this view (by which a relaxation or temporary paralysis of the walls of the vessels and a consequent decrease of their resistance to the pressure of the blood would, it is true, be explained as a se- quent of their contraction), we must not forget that it is by no means proved that the muscles of the vessels, once irritated and excited to rapid contraction, arc indeed paralyzed, while in other muscles this fatigue usually occurs only after repeated irritation. It is necessary arbitrarily to assume that the muscles of the vessels very readily be- come fatigued, which is directly refuted liy experiment. From physi-