INTRODUCTIUxV. 1} have been Avritten so clearly by any one avIio had no practical knowl- edge of his subject. Hence Ave see that, since the time of Hippo- crates and the Alexandria school, surgery, especially the operatiA-e part, had made no great progress. Celsus speaks of plastic opera- tions, of hernia, and gives a method of amputation which is still occa- sionally employed. One part, from the seventh book, Avhere he speaks of the qualifications of the perfect surgeon, is quite celebrated, as it is characteristic of the spirit Avhich reigns in the book ^ I giA'e it to you: “ The surgeon should be young, or at least little advanced in age, Avith a hand nimble, firm, and never trembling; equally dexter- ous with both hands; vision, sharp and distinct; bold, unmerciful, so that, as he wishes to cure his patient, he may not be moved by his cries to hasten too much, or to cut less than is necessary. In the same Avay let him do every thing as if he Avere not affected by the cries of the patient.” Claudius Galenus (131—201 a. d.) must be regarded as a phe- nomenon among the Roman physicians; eighty-three undoubtedly genuine medical writings of his have come down to us. Galen re- turned again to the Hippocratic belief, that observation must form the foundation of the art of healing, and he advanced anatomy great- ly; he made dissections chiefly of asses, rarely of human beings. Galen's anatomy, as w'ell as the entire philosoj^hical sj^stem into which he brought medicine, and which seemed to him even more im- portant than obserA^ation itself, has stood firm OA'^er a thousand years. He occupies a very prominent position in the history of medicine. He did little for surgery in particular; indeed, he practised it little, for in his time there Avere special surgeons, either gymnasts, bathers, or barbers, and so unfortunately surgery was handed doAvn by tradition as a mechanical art, Avhile internal medicine was, and long remained, in the hands of ])hilosophic physicians; the latter knew and com- mented freely on the surgical writings of Hippocrates^ thp Alexandri- ans, and Celsus, still they paid little attention to surgical practice. As Ave are only giving a faint sketch, Ave might here skip several cen- turies, or even a thousand years, during Avhich surgery made scarcely any progress, indeed retrograded occasionally. The B\'zantine era of tlie empire Avas particularly unfavorable to the advance of science, there Avas only a short flickering up of the Alexandria school. Ea'Cii the most celebrated physicians of the later Roman times, Antyllus (in the third century), Orihashis (32G-403 A. n.), Alexander of IVallcs (525-605 A. D.), Paidits of JEgina (660), did relatively little for sur- gery. Some advance had been made in the position and scholarly at- tainments of ])hysicians; under Nero there Avas a gymnasium ; under Hadrian an athenanm, scientific institutions Avherc medicine also Avas