TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 394 stings on the tongue, in the palate, or on the eyelids, may from their locality cause certain clangers by the swelling induced. But, as these inflammations subside in a relatively short time, a physician is rarely called; the poi^ular treatment is by various cooling remedies to allevi- ate the pain, among which I shall merely mention the application of moist clay, raw mashed potato, cabbage-leaves, etc. In more severe inflammations, lotions of lead-water and other antiphlogistic remedies may be resorted to. Still more severe than the stings of bees and wasps are those from tarantulce and scorpions, that are seen in southern countries. The}’- are followed by more extensive inflammation of the skin, with severe burning pains, occasionally by formation of vesicles; there may also be fever, but there is usually no danger, unless it arise from the locality of the injury. The treatment should be that above given. Fortunately, with us there are few varieties of poisonous serpents, and even they are not frequent. Among them are the Vipera Berus (cross adder), and Vipera JRedii, with two hook-like, curved fangs, containing the excretory ducts of small glands, -which, at the time of the bite, pour their poison into the wound. The bite of these ser- pents is not so dangerous as is supposed; according to statistics, about two die out of sixty persons bitten. The pain is very severe; there are great inflammation, tension and swelling of the skin, with high fever, great anxiety, depression, vomiting, and occasionally sliirht icterus. The best treatment is to suck out the wound at once, as the poison is not absorbed by the gastric or oral mucous membrane. The wound should be washed at once, and it is advised to ligate the injured limb above the wound to prevent the absorption of the poison; but this has usually taken place by the time the patient reaches the surgeon; it is a disputed point whether the application of cups, the cauterization, burning or excision of the wound, be now of any ser- vice, but I should think its cauterization advisable. The local cutane- ous inflammation is treated with special attention to the intense pain; by applications of oil, protecting the skin from the air by various rem- edies, with which we become acquainted in the treatment of superfi- cial burns. Internally we usually give an emetic, then antiseptic remedies. Of all snake-bites in southern countries, those of the rattle- snake are most dangerous ; sometimes they prove fatal in a few hours; the local inflammation of the skin, which is very severe and extensive, not unfrequently ends in gangrene ; those bitten die with high fever, delirium, and sopor. [Prof. Halford, of Australin, treats snake-bites by injecting diluted liquor amraonim into the veins. See London Medical Times and Gazette, 18C9, page 123.] Cadaveric poison is a very phlogogenous substance, which proba- bly varies greatly in its chemical composition. Some of you may have