2&6 ACUTE NON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATIOX OF SOFT PARTS. result. But, as the decomposition of the blood must have its cause, it has been supposed that an insect which has alighted on some car- rion, or on the nose of a horse with glanders, or a cow with carbun- cle, etc., lights soon after on a man and infects him; you will here- after learn that malignant carbuncles result particularly from carbun culous cattle. I know of no cases where this has been actually observed, but I do not consider it impossible in certain cases; this supposition is supported by the fact that these carbuncles are most frequent on parts of the body which are usually exposed. At all events, the high fever and fatal blood-infection are mostly results of the local disease; hence, we must suppose that in these carbuncles, under circumstances which we do not exactly understand, peculiarly intense poisons are formed, whose reabsorption into the blood causes death. But the causes of malignant carbuncle are in most cases en- tirely obscure.’^ In diabetes mellitus and uraemia carbuncle occurs, just as sugar is observed in the urine of persons otherwise healthy, who have furuncles and carbuncles; these are enigmatical facts.*^ For- tunately, carbuncles are not frequent; even simple benignant carbun- cles are so rare that in the extensive surgical policlinic of Berlin, where every year five or six thousand patients presented themselves, I only saw a carbuncle once in two years or so. In Zurich also they were rare. The diagnosis of ordinary carbuncle is not difficult, espe- cially after you have seen one; difiuse carbunculous inflammation can only be recognized after a period of observation ; at first it resembles erj^sipelas. The treatment of carbuncle must be very energetic, if we would prevent the advance of the disease. As in all inflammations disposed to gangrene, numerous incisions should be made early, to permit the escape of the decomposed, putrid tissues and fluids. Hence in every carbuncle you make large crucial incisions, dividing the whole thick- ness of the cutis, and long enough to divide the infected skin clear through to the healthy. If this does not suffice, you add a few other incisions, especially where from the white points you recognize gan- grene of the skin. The bleeding from these incisions is proportion- ately slight, as the blood is coagulated in most of the vessels of the carbuncle. In the incisions you place charpie wet with chlorine-water, and renew it every two or three hours; over this warm cataplasms may be regularly applied to hasten suppuration by the moist v armth. If the continued warmth be not well borne, as in carbuncle of the neck, where it may induce cerebral congestion, the cataplasms may be omitted and the antiseptic dressings continued alone, or even cold may-be resorted to. If the tissue begins to detach, you daily pick off the half-loose tags with the forceps, and so try to keep the wound as