OPENINGS OF THE JOINTS. 235 time, and feels hot, a somewhat more active antiphlogistic treatment is indicated. This consists in the application of leeches, regular en- velopment of the joint in wet bandages, causing moderate compres- sion, and in applying an ice-bladder to the joint. As a rule, inflam- mation of this grade may be readily relieved, although chronic dis- eases and a certain irritability of the joint that has been injured not unfrequently follow. It is very important to determine whether the crushing of the joint be accompanied by fracture or fissure of the end of the bone, in which case, it would be necessary to apply a plaster- dressing, and give a guarded prognosis as to the future usefulness of the joint. If the continued aiDplication of cold increases the pain, make inunctions of mercurial ointment, and apply moist, warm com- presses covered with gutta-percha and wadding. A form of injury peculiar to joints is distortion (literally, t-wist- ing). This is an injury that occurs especially often in the foot, and which is commonly called “ turning the foot.” Such a distortion, which is possible in almost any joint, consists essentially in a tension, too great stretching and even partial rupture, of the capsular liga- ments, "with escape of some blood into the joint and surrounding tis- sue. The injury may bfe very painful at the time, and its consequences are not unfrequently tedious, especially if the treatment be not rightly conducted. Usually abstraction of blood and cold are resorted to in these cases also, but with only temporary benefit. It is much more important to keep the joint perfectly motionless after such in- juries, so that, if any of the ligaments be ruptured, they may heal and acquire their previous firmness. The simplest way of attaining this object is by applying a firm dressing, such as the plaster-bandage, with which we may permit the patient to go about, if it gives him no pain. After ten, twelve, or fourteen days, according to the severity of the injury, we may remove the dressing, but renew it at once if the patient has pain on walking. It may sometimes be necessary to wear this dressing three or four weeks. This appears a long time for such an injury; but I can assure you that, without the application of a firm dressing, the consequences of these sprains often continue for months, at the same time the danger of subsequent chronic inflammation of the joint is increased. Hence you must not promise too speedy a cure, and must always treat these, often apparently insignificant injuries, conscientiously and carefully.' OPENINGS OF THE JOINTS, AND ACUTE TRAUJtATIC ARTICULAR INFLAJIJIATIONS. In now p.assing to wounds of the joint, we make an immense spring as regards the importance of the injury. While a contusion