CAUSES OF ULCERS. 443 mation. Hence all the causes that induce chronic inflammation are ac^ain to be enumerated here; we will call particular attention to a few of these. If we first consider more carefully the local causes of ulcers, the most important of them is continued mechanical or chemi- cal local irritation. Continued friction and irritation are frequent causes of such irritable ulcers ; a tight boot, the hard edge of a shoe, may induce ulcers on the feet; a rough tooth or a sharp piece of tar- tar may cause ulcers of the mucous membrane of the mouth or tongue, etc. Ulcers of this variety usually bear the marks of irritation; the vicinity is red and painful, as is the ulcer itself. Among the chemical irritants we have the action of schnaps and rum on the gastric mucous membrane ; as a rule, topers have constant gastric catarrh, during whose course catarrhal and specific ulcers, of various kinds, not unfre- quently form. A second and still more frequent cause of chronic inflammation, resulting in ulceration, is congestion, especially venous congestion, distention of the veins, varicose veins. These are very intimately connected with the origin of ulcers of the leg; we shall speak of them later (Chapter XIX). There we will only mention that, as a result of the continued distention of the small cutaneous veins, there is chronic serous infiltration of the skin, to which is gradually added cellular infiltration, thickening; and, lastly, there are frequently suppuration and disintegration. Ulcers due to varices, which are generally briefly termed varicose ulcers, may have very varied characteristics. At first they are ordi- narily simple, often proliferating ulcers; subsequently they assume a more torpid character, and then the borders become callous. We hav'e already noticed how quickly such ulcers change when they are only treated by rest and cleanliness. In regard to treatment, the already- lauded dressings with adhesive plaster are excellent both for inducing healing of the ulcer and arresting further development of the varices. But in most cases I prefer rest in bed, on the principles above given, and only subsequently apply the adhesive plaster to prevent further increase of the varices. Although we have here shown the intimate relations between varicose veins and ulcers, and have thus called attention to the point of greatest practical importance about this disease of the veins, you must not conclude that varices are always followed by ulceration; on the contrary, there are many cases of enormous varices that are not followed by secondary ulcers. We come now to a short description of those ulcers that are due to internal causes, and are connected with various dyscrasia the symptomatic ulcers.