425 GOUT. the tendency to chronic inflammations, ending in suppuration and caseous degeneration, is hereditary ; in other words, the scrofulous diathesis, not the tuberculous, is hereditary. We must bear this in mind ; the experience of family physicians agrees with it entirely ; but we must understand that such general rules are onl}’ true in theory. The hereditary tendency to diseases of certain organs, and to certain forms of disease, is such a complicated question that we should be very reserved in stating general laws about it. Apart from the occasional accidental complications, such as meningitis, haemorrhages, pneumothorax, empyema, peritonitis from perforation of intestines, pyaemia, etc., tuberculosis may prove fatal by extensive suppuration and the rapid febrile marasmus, or by amyloid degener- ation of internal organs due to the suppuration, or, lastly, by acute miliary tuberculosis, i. e., by an extensive eruption of tubercles in internal organs, accompanied by general poisoning*, where the pa- tient is in a typhoid state. In the earlier stages recovery may take place, but leaving a tendency to relapse. If we put together what may be said about the indications for treatment of tuberculosis, it would be about as follows: We cannot prevent either the development or progress of tubercles. Hopeless as this sounds, it remains to be added that medical care may accom- plish something in hindering the development of those processes Avhich are so often followed by tuberculosis. The early, careful, general dietetic and local treatment of chronic diseases of the bones and joints, and even the amputation of limbs, or the resection of bones at the proper time, may prevent the development of tubercle. In the same way, great care of catarrhs of all sorts, and their most perfect removal, is undoubtedly the most effectual thing we can do to remove the tuberculous infection. In tuberculosis the treatment is the same. All the remedies, baths, and places for treatment, that are prescribed, have for their object—1, to remove or diminish the existing catarrh or other primary disease ; 2, to improve the nutri- tion of the patients, who are generally emaciated ; 3, to avoid every thing that can render the patients feverish. I must leave it for the lecturer on clinical medicine to make you better acquainted with the important principles of treatment in tliis frequent and fearful disease. 3. Arthritis, or gout, is a tendency to disease which usually ap- pears first about the thirtieth to the forty-fifth year of life and later ; it is often confounded with chronic rheumatism, but really differs from it considerably. True gout is a rare disease with us, and is dis- tinguished from rheumatism by the fact that it occurs iu attacks, often recurs only once a year, or at stated intervals, while meantime