509 TUMOR ALBUS. Now that you have a general view of the anatomical changes in fungous inflammation of the joints, we may go more minutely into the various modifications; in so doing Ave shall start from the above- described course. So far I have represented the course of the dis- ease as it occurs when originating in the synovial membrane, but there are also other starting-points for the disease; there may be a central, or more rarely a peripheral, caries in the spongy epiphysis of a holloAV bone, or in one of the spongy bones of the wrist or ankle, and this may perforate from within outwardly through the cartilage, and thus excite synovitis. It also happens that, sometimes, along with the fungous proliferation of the synovial membrane, there is an inde- pendent proliferation under the cartilage, in the boundary between it and the bone (Fig. 93, g), which subsequently unites with that from above, so that the cartilage lies partly movable between the two granular layers. This occurs quite frequently, especially in the hip, elbow, and ankles. The cartilage is so loosened by this primary osti- tis of the ends of the bone or sub-chondral caries, that it may be re- moved apparently intact from the subjacent, vascular, soft bone. It has already been mentioned that inflammation of a joint may be in- duced by acute periostitis and osteomyelitis; the inflammation then extends from the periosteum to the capsule of the joint, and thence to the synovial membrane; the anatomical changes are as above de- Fig. 95. Subchondral caries of the astragalus. Perforation of the proliferating granulations into the ineXiia'"'^”''^^^' •^"'euty diameters; a, curtilage; &, granulations; c, normal bone, with scribed. The infiltrations which we so often find around the sheaths of the tendons on the dorsum of the foot are often independent diseases of the cellular tissue of the periosteum and sheath of the tendon, but frequently they are due to ostitis of the ankle- bones. When an acute traumatic inflammation of a joint or an idiopathic acute suppurative synovitis passes into the chronic stao-e 34 “ ’