646 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. among hypej-assthesias with their reflex complications ; in short, would class them with hysteria and hypochondria. The cases that I have seen, which from the descriptions of authors were to be placed in this class, I formerly regarded as slight diseases of the joints, whose s3unptoms were exaggerated in, or even simulated by, hyster- ical women and girls, or sometimes as commencing and not yet well- deflned diseases of joints or bones ; and lastly, sometimes as great sensitiveness remaining after the disease had run its course. Tt is well to have a name for this group of cases, but tliey are not all to be viewed from the same point or treated in the same way. Gen- eral medical experience and knowledge of human nature must aid most in the treatment of hj’sterical patients; the peculiarities and persistence of women in carrying out simulated contractions and spasms is incredible to any one but an experienced jDhysician. Hys- teria is really a mental disease, often incurable, or only temporarily curable. For lessening the sensitiveness of joints we may trv cold douches, baths, sea-baths, or active use of the joint ; the last is especially advised by Esmarch. Still, in just such neuroses, which had remained after disease of the joints, I have' seen beneficial ef- fects from thermal mud-baths and electrical treatment. Benefit may also be expected from massage. LECTURE XLI. Anchyloses: Varieties, Anatomy, Diagnosis, Treatment; Gradual Forced Extension ; ■ Operations with the Knife. You know that by anchylosis we mean a stiff joint, but I must add that this designation is used only when the process which causes the stiffness of the joint has ceased ; that is, when the limitation or total loss of mobility of the joint is the only morbid symptom present. For instance, if during an inflammation of the knee or hij> the limb be strongly flexed by involuntary continuous contraction of the muscles, and the joint cannot be extended on account of the pain, although it should be mechanically possible, we do not call it anchj’losis of the joint, but articular inflammation with contraction of the muscles. The causes why a joint cannot be extended after the subsidence of the acute inflammation are partly mechanical hinderances either in the joint or exterior to it, or in parts actually belonging to the joint. A muscle shortened by atrophy and shrinking, a stronglv’-contracted cicatrix of the skin, especially when on the flexor side of the limb, may greatly impair the normal mobility' of the joint; such cases are not meant when we speak briefly of anchjdosis; they are termed mus- cular or cicatricial contraction. Should we term these varieties of