CHRONIC OSTITIS. 467 as a rule, they are bad signs; their treatment, of wliich hereafter, is one of the most difficult points in surgical therapeutics. In speaking of the sinking of pus, it is meant that, following the laws of gravity, the pus sinks mechanically; it will do so most readily where there is simply loose connective tissue present, and no opposition from fascia, muscles, or bone. But I must call your attention to the fact that this purely mechanical picture is only partly correct; for it is partly an ulcerative suppuration that progresses in a certain di- rection, which is only slightly influenced by the pressure of the pus ; the abscess enlarges as it does in other cases; if the pus reaches a point under the skin of the thigh, perforation usually results, not from the mechanical pressure of the pus, but from ulceration from within outward, as in the opening of other abscesses; such a congestion ab- scess may last one and a half to two years before opening spontane- ously. We come now to the etiology of ostitis and caries interna^ which we may treat very briefly, as the chief factors act here as in chronic periostitis, or in chronic inflammations generally. It is, on the whole, rare for injury to induce ostitis chronica ; but this may develop in the form of an osteomyelitis in one of the larger hollow bones, from severe concussion and bruising, with extravasation of blood in tlie medullary cavity; the same thing may occur from contusions of the bones of the wrist or ankle. But it is more com- mon for such causes to induce acute disease, such as acute periostitis. If suppuration take place after contusion of the wrist or ankle, if the cartilage be destroyed and the suppuration extend to the bone, we may have fungous ostitis of the small spongy bones, and their complete destruction. Even healthy, strong persons may, from protracted traumatic inflammation of the joint, become so anaemic and cachectic that the disease will not go on to its normal termination, but becomes chronic. Most frequently scrofula and syphilis are the causes of chronic in- flammation of the bones; in scrofula, while the children are fat and well-nourished, the fungous forms predominate. In thin, badly-nour- ished, scrofulous children, on the contrary, ostitis with caseous degen- eration and other atonic forms not unfrequently develop; both of the latter lead to partial necrosis. The most frequent seats of scrofulous ostitis and periostitis are the vertebras, articular epiphyses, phalanges, and metacarpal bones; the jaw-bones and large hollow bones are rarely affected. In syphilis, ostitis and periostitis osteoplastica are most frequent in the tibia and cranium; caries sicca fungosa also occurs, some- times primarily in tlie diploc of the skull, sometimes after periostitis;