98 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. mucous membrane from the mouth (with flat epithelium) and from the nose (with cylindrical ciliated epithelium) may be successfully grafted on wounds. [Is this, perhaps, one cause for animals licking their wounds?] Ihe epitheliuin of these membranes preserves its character but a short time, then it is transformed into epidermis. [March 6, 1871, Dr. B. Iloioard presented, at the meeting of the New York County Medical Society, a case in which, after skin-grafting, cicatrization had progressed for a time, then seemed to be arrested ; whereupon he grafted small portions of the biceps muscle and thus induced a continuance of tlie cicatrization. The question was raised whether the renewed activity was not due to the previous sA;fn.-graft- ing. Dr. Stein stated that he had aroused these old ulcers bv sprin- kling epidermis scales over their surface.] Regarding constitutional treatment, we can accomplish scarcely any thing with internal remedies in preventing or cutting short the sub- sequent fever. Still, certain dietetic rules are necessary. After the injury the patient should not overload his stomach, but, as long as he has fever, must live on low diet. This he usually does spontane- ously, as fever patients rarely have any appetite ; but, even after subsidence of the fever, the patient should not live too high, but only eat as much as he can digest while lying in bed or confined to his chamber, where he has no exercise. If the fever be high, and the patient desires some change of drink from cold water, which is generally preferred by fever patients, you may order acid drinks, as lemonade or some medicinal substance; the patients soon grow tired of the ordinary lemonade; they bear phosphoric or muriatic acid in water with fruit-juice, raspberry-vinegar in water, apple boiled in water, toast-water (infusion of- toasted bread with some lemon-juice and sugar) ; some patients prefer almond-mucilage, water-ice dis- solved in water, oatmeal gruel, barley-water, etc. We may give the taste of the patient full play ; but it is well for you to attend to such things yourself. The phvsician should know as much about the cel- lar and kitchen as about the apothecary-shop, and it is even well for him to have the reputation of being a gourmand.