397 CARBUNCLE. better prognosis. The glanders and farcy of animals are only con- veyed to man by accidental inoculation. If some of the j)us of a glan- dered horse enters a wound or excoriated spot on a man, or if very in- tense poisonous glander-pus fall on the uninjured skin at a point where the epidermis is thin, there may be very acute inflammation with gen- eral septicasmia, which in most cases proves fatal. The chronic form of glanders is rare in man; the symptoms are chiefly pustulous inflam- mations of the skin, and formation of abscesses at different points in the subcutaneous tissue; it is not so dangerous. In some cases of acute glander-poisoning there is lymphangitis and suppuration, limited to the injured extremity; in others a diffuse erysipelatous redness of the skin with great swelling develops quickly, while at the same time there is very intense fever. The local inflammation may go on to gangrene; there is dehrium, and soon coma occurs; there may also be diarrhoea, purulent discharge from the nose, and pain in the muscles, with which symptoms the patient dies. The disease may run its course very rapidly; I remember, when a student in the Got- tingen clinic, seeing a strong, robust man die of glanders in a few days; but patients with acute glanders may live from ten to fourteen days, and all the symptoms of pymmia may develop in them, and nu- merous hmmorrhagic abscesses form in the muscles, which are so characteristic of glanders that they confirm the diagnosis. In rare cases acute, rapidly-fatal glanders may develop from the chronic; the reverse is also seen. Of com’se, persons that have much to do with horses are chiefly exposed to this disease, which never occurs primarily in man. Unfortunately, there is little hope from treatment in this disease; as in acute pyaemia, we treat the most prominent symptoms. Iodine, arsenic, and creosote, have been recommended as antidotes in glanders. Carbuncle (anthrax, pustula maligna) is an infectious disease oc- curring primarily most often in cattle. It is called in German “Milzbrand” (gangrene of spleen), because in animals that have died of it the spleen is found greatly swollen, dark red, and gangre- nous ; in many cases also the intestinal mucous membrane is bloody- red and swollen ; the loose subperitoncal cellular tissue, and occa- sionally the subcutaneous cellular tissue, of one of the limbs is often the scat of brawny infiltration ; in the intestinal mucous membrane and sometimes in the skin, carbuuculous infiltrations may occur. As in all infectious diseases, the course varies in rapidity accordino- to the amount and intensity of the poison absorbed and the resisting powers of the patient; it mav be fondroyante (apoplectiform), or may go on for several days. The herbivora are more readily infected than ornnivora or carnivora. The contagion adheres to the products