PYAEMIA. 375 Ihe pleuritis is secondary. The liver is quite vascular and friable, but is otherwise apparently normal. The sjDleen is somewhat enlarged, and, on section, shows a few firm, wedge-shaped nodules, with their points inward, and their broad outer ends along the surface; they re- semble the red infarctions of the lungs, and within they also have partly broken down into pus. The intestines, urinary and genital organs, show nothing abnormal. An incision into the right knee, which was painful during life, evacuates a quantity of flocculent pus; the synovial membrane is swollen, and in part haemorrhagic, injected; the lustre of the articular cartilage is dulled. Examination of the wound shows little more than we found on the living patient; that is, extensive suppuration of the deep and subcutaneous cellular tissue, as well as pus in the ankle-joint; the walls of all these collections of pus consist mostly of broken-down tissue, true granulation has onlj' oc- curred at a few points. The fracture is, however, more complicated than had been supposed, for a longitudinal fissure reaches to the anlde-joint, and on the posterior aspect of the tibia, which we could not examine during life, there are several detached fragments of bone. In the veins of the leg there are old plugs of fibrine here and there, also yellow puriform detritus, and in some places pure pus. Let us make some reflections on this case, and suppose that you have seen a series of such cases, so that you are convinced that it is not an accidental association of various diseases, but a regular com- bination. You have an extensive, steadily-increasing suppuration in an extremity, with intense continued fever, which has exacerbations. To this are added suppuration in some distant joint, and circumscribed inflammations, ending in formation of abscesses in the lungs and other organs. These multiple points of inflammation keep up the fever, and they disturb the functions of the affected organs, and the patient dies of exhaustion. The peculiar and essential feature, as you will readily see, is the appearance of various points of inflammation, after the primary suppuration has attained a certain grade. You know the explanation of the occurrence of metastatic abscesses: they are al- ways caused by venous thrombosis and embolism; it is unnecessary to recur to this. It is more difficult to explain the diffuse metastatic inflammations which occur both in septicmmia and i^yremia; they by no mes.ns always depend on abscesses of the lungs, as does pleurisy in the cases above mentioned; there are metastatic dilTnse abscesses of the eye, cerebral membranes, subcutaneous tissue, joints, periosteum, liver, spleen, kidneys, pleura, pericardium, etc., which arc independent of abscesses or emboli. The occurrence of these metastases cannot always be exactly explained. If the metastatic disease be nearly united to the original abscess, it might be attributed to conduction