473 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC) PERIOSTITIS. greatly predispose to fatty degenerations; hence, in patients with e.\tensive caries vve should carefully attend to this point, though fre- quently we cannot avert it. Besides tuberculosis and amyloid degen- eration, which unfortunately not unfrequently combine, these poor patients are occasionally also endangered by the common forms of acute and chronic diffuse nephritis, or morbus Brightii. I will also mention that, in chronic inflammation of the periosteum and bone, the proximal lymphatic glands often participate in the dis- ease. As in acute inflammations the lymphatic glands are often infiltrated and excited to acute inflammation by material coming to them from the point of disease, so in chronic inflammations the same thing occurs and from the same cause. The lymphatic glands swell slowly, painlessly, but often enormously in the course of months and years; the tissue of their frame-work thickens, some lymphatic ves- sels are obliterated, while others increase in size; rarely it goes be- yond this hyperplastic swelling; occasionally there are small abscesses and points of caseous degeneration. Now, after having examined chronic periostitis and ostitis from all sides, it is time to think of the treatment. In so doing, after having spoken of these diseases in their most varied extent and combination, we must again begin with simple chronic periostitis. The treatment should be at once general and local; in all cases where dyscrasial causes are evident, they should be chiefly treated, and on this point I refer you to what was said in the general consideration of these dys- crasim in the chapter on chronic inflammation. Therefore in this place we shall chiefly consider local remedies. Rest of the diseased jjart is the first and most general rule in the treatment of chronic inflamma- tion of the bone; for movement, accidental blows, falls, etc., may change what would have been a mild, not injurious course, to an acute and dangerous one; hence, in most cases of disease of the bones of the lower extremities lying quiet is of the first necessity, in the upper extremities carrying the arm in a sling. This rest is particularly im- portant in diseases of the bone near the joints; under such circum- stances rest is often spontaneously resorted to because motion is pain- ful. Some fonns of fistulous caries become so quiet and painless, when suppuration externally begins, that motion has no effect on the diseased bone, and in such cases moderate motion may be allowed. Elevation of the diseased part is a good adjuvant to the treatment, for it avoids venous congestion. This mechanical aid to the escape of the blood must not be undervalued. Wlien the first symptoms of chronic periostitis and ostitis begin.