PROGNOSIS OF CARIES. 471 1878, Dr. S. W. Gross expresses his belief that the circulation and nutrition of the walls are disturbed by the withdrawal of the con- tents; more blood is sent to the sac, its surface becomes studded with granulations from dilated capillaries, and pyogenesis is in- creased. After evacuation he recommends compression by adhesive plaster and bandages, and keeping the parts at rest.] The possi- bility of the chronic process becoming acute in this way justifies the prognosis that opening of the abscess increases the danger. We may here add that the general health is first decidedly affected by the suppuration ; caries fungosa, whether running its course without suppuration or with only a slight amount, is consequently' less dangerous to life than caries atonica, with great tendency to suppuration and decomposition. This prognostic point is also based on good grounds, for, as we have previousl}' stated, proliferatiug inflammatory new formations more frequently occur under compara- tively favorable constitutional conditions. If the fungous prolifera- tions break down quickly, if the suppuration becomes more profuse and thinner, it is a bad sign, a sign that the general health has also become impaired. The strength is used up partly by the production of pus, partly by the fever, and is only partly replaced because reabsorption does not go on properly from the stomach, digestion is not good; this reacts again on the local disease, and thus the general and local state are most intimately connected. The smaller the carious spot, the less dangerous it is for the general health; still there are certain localities where it is more dangerous than elsewhere; thus suppuration of the vertebrae, with large congestion abscesses, is very dangerous, while caries of the phalanges, even if several be attacked, has little efi’ect on the general health; there is great difference in the danger to life according to the joint and diaphyses attacked ; caries of the hip, knee, or ankle, is far more dangerous than in the shoulder, elbow, or wrist. Of this we shall speak more particularly when treating of diseases of the joints. The age is also of great prognostic importance in caries—the younger the patient the better hope of recovery; the older he is, the less hope: in caries coming after the fiftieth year, whether a sequent of periostitis or primanly as ostitis, the prognosis as to recovery is very doubtful, insignificant as the local disease may be at first; I do not remember ever to have seen caries in old persons so frequently as at Zurich. Lastly, the prognosis depends greatly on the constitutional disease to which the caries is due. Relatively, syphilitic caries is the most favorable, because we can treat syphilis the most successfully. In well-nourished children scrofulous caries also is rarclv dangerous to