678 VARICES AND ANEURISMS. even induces oedema of the feet. Often there are varic(;s in all the parts supplied by the saphenous vein ; again, in those supplied by the pudic, as in the labia majora. It is far more dillicult to find the causes of the more rarely-occurring varices in man. Large collections of laeces may, by pressure on the abdominal veins, prove an exciting cause of varices, but this is rarely seen. In many men with varices you will find disproportionately long lower limbs, especially long be- low the knee; in some cases this may also favor congestions in the veins. Possibly, also, the collection of hard fat, or else shrinkage in the falciform process of the fascia lata, may cause congestion in the saphenous vein, as the latter sinks into the femoral at this point. So far as I know, there are no anatomical investigations on this point. The obstruction to the flow of blood need not always be directly in the territory of the dilated veins: for instance, gradual narrowing and final obliteration of the femoral vein, below the opening of the sa- phena, might very readily cause enormous distention of the branches of the latter by collateral circulation. Varices occur at some other parts of the body, especially at the lower part of the rectum and in the spermatic cord. Varices of the hmmorrhoidal veins in the lower part of the rectum cause hmmorrhoids, which, as is well known, occur chiefly among persons who lead a sedentary life. The disease is very rare in other parts of the body; it occasionally occurs in the head, usually without known cause, it may form after an injury, if this be followed by union of the walls of the arteries and veins and passage of arterial blood into the veins; this would be a varix aneurysmaticus, of which we spoke in the second chapter. In the pathological ana- tomical atlas of Gruveilhier you find given as a great rarity a picture of large varices of the abdominal veins; there is a similar preparation in the pathological museum at Vienna. The diagnosis of varices is not difficult Avhen the cutaneous veins are affected; those of the deep muscular veins can rarely be diag- nosed with certainty ; in the leg, and thigh the whole course of the tortuous veins is so evident through the skin that they may be readily recognized, but in other cases we see only a few light-blue, fluctuat- ing, compressible nodules; these chiefly correspond to the sac-like dilatations of the veins, and to the points where the valves are. Here we occasionally find hard, round bodies, phlebolites or 'oein-st07ies j on examination, these prove to be nodules in layers, at first consisting of fibrine; they may subsequently calcify entirely, so as to assume the appearance of small peas. In the great majority of cases, varices of the lower extremities cause no difficulty, cxce]>t, perhaps, a feeling of tension and heaviness in the limbs after long standing or walking. But in other cases there are occasionally thrombi in single venous dila