343 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. this diphtheria does not occur, unless there be infection from with- out, or the wound be mechanically injured and the granulations partly destroyed. In this disease the constitutional symptoms ma\’- be very severe, and the patients are particularly subject to sudden collapse, which is the more dangerous as, from the impairment of nutrition which has often gone before, the patients are usually much debilitated. After operations for stone, urethrotomy, vesico-vagina.1 fistula, or ectopia vesicae, pulpous breaking down of the edges of the wound, ■with fibrinous coating of the walls of the bladder or of the vagina, is not rare, especially when the urine is alkaline. As tliis disease is associated with decomposition of the urine, it is called urinary diph- theria. This form of diphtheria is the mildest of those above men- tioned, from having little tendency to spread, and running its course without constitutional symptoms, if the wound is kept clean. Rarely the mucous membranes break down, but more frequently the process becomes a purulent retroperitouitis, which becomes a peritonitis and causes death. Diphtheritic inflammation of the vagina also may spread as superficial suppuration to the inner surface of the uterus, and thence through the oviducts to the peritoneum ; this suppurative peritonitis also is usually fatal. Under sucii circum- stances I have never seen fibrinous inflammations. In the latter cases, which unfortunately are not rare after confinement, but do not often occur after operations for vesico-vaginal fistula, severe consti- tutional symptoms are early manifested. In the pulp from raucous-salivary and from urinary diphtheria micrococci and streptococci are constantly found ; they are just as regularly found in the coating of the gums and tongue, and in urine which lias become alkaline, but seem to develop with particular ra- pidity in this pulp. The contagious principle of this pulp has not yet been separated from the micrococcus; so we may suppose the latter has in or on it the contagious material. There is no proof that micrococci from any source can excite this process ; but man}'- observations tend to show that these vegetations take up contagious substances very readily, and so become vehicles of contagions and ferments. If we inoculate the cornea of a rabbit with a fluid con- taining micrococci, the interesting experiments of Nassiloff, Eberth, Leber, Stromeyer, JJolschenJcow, Orth, Frisch, and others show that tile coccus grows to a certain point, and in some cases (when unac- conipanied by any peculiarly injurious substances) causes irritation, chiefly mechanically, by separating the corneal lamellie, so that the coccus colony gradually becomes enveloped in pus, and then is thrown off with the pus ; but in other cases (if the inoculated mat-