LOCAL REMEDIES. 439 ulcer of the leg begins to improve in appearance as soon as the patient has taken a warm bath, simply applied a wet compress to the ulcer, and remained in bed quietly for twenty-four hours. The ulcer, which previously looked dirty or grayish-green, and had a pestilent odor, looks quite dilferently; it has a tolerably fair if not very actively gran- ulating surface, and secretes good pus; a fortnight’s rest and great cleanliness sometimes suffice for a perfect cure of small ulcers of this Idnd. But the patient is hardly dismissed, and in his old mode of life, before the cicatrix again opens, and, in a few days, his condition is as bad as ever. So it goes on: the patient again enters the hos- pital, and is again dismissed, to be again received in a short time We have, however, some means of protection against these relapses, of which we shall speak hereafter. All ulcers are not inclined to heal so quickly; many require various remedies and a long treatment. We shall now run through the various forms, according to their local symptoms, and mention the local remedies to be employed. 1. The ulcer with inflamed borders, and the erethitic ulcer. Fre- quently, while the patient is constantly going about, an ulcer ap- pears ver}-- red and painful, and, after a period of rest, this slight amount of inflammation spontaneously subsides. But there are other ulcers Avhose borders are constantly red and sensitive, the ulcer bleeds easily, and the granulations are painful to the touch. Such ulcers are called erethitic or iri'itahlethe highest grades of erethism of the surface of the ulcer are very rare; in Zurich, I had a patient, who, as a sequent of a severe inflammation in the thigh, lost a large portion of skin by gangrene; after the detachment of the eschar, there was left a very luxuriantly proliferating, granulating surface, with Httle tendency to heal, which was so painful to the lig’htest touch that the patient would cry out and shrink away. The cause of this excessive sensitiveness in such cases has already been mentioned when speaking of nerve cicatrices. In treating inflamed and erethitic ulcers, we first try mild salves of fresh butter and wax, rgiguentum cereum, tlien so-called cooling salves, such as those of zinc and lead, also fomentations with lead- water ; if under this treatment the granulations continue painful and look badly, while the inflammation of the suiTOunding parts is less, we may cauterize the surface of the ulcer freely with nitrate of silver, or, still better, with the hot iron; the latter remedy, with subsequent compression by adhesive plaster, finally caused healing in the case above mentioned. In such cases, the local emjfloyment of narcotics is usually recommended, such as cataplasms, with the addition of bel- ladonna, hyoscyamus, opium, etc., but these remedies do so very little good, that, in my opinion, their employment is only time lost.