64 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TEE SOFT PARTS. This will show you what part the questions to-day under con- sideration, which you might regard as a superfluous exercise of the mind and imagination, have played at various times; you will here- after learn, from the history of medicine, that entire systems of medi- cine, of the greatest practical importance, are based on hypotheses that were formed for the explanation of this symptom in the vessels, of this irritability and of irritability of the tissues generally. This is not the place to enter into a thorough historical considera- tion of this question; I will only call to mind a few h}’-potheses which have been advanced lately, under the alread3’-existing knowledge of the vessels and parts visible to the naked eye, concerning the occur- rence of vascular dilatation from iiritation. From histology and physiologj’’, you know that, until they pass into capillaries, the arteries and veins have transverse and longitudi- nal muscular fibres in their walls, and that in general these are more scanty in veins than in arteries, although this varies great!}'. Now, although it may be very difficult to make direct observations of the effect of irritation on these smallest arteries and veins, it is very simple to see its effect in the intestine, where we have essentially the same conditions, namel}', a tube pi’ovided with longitudinal and transverse muscular fibres. But, irritate the intestine as you may, you will never induce dilatation at the.constricted part, but only a shortening or con- striction and a consequent motion of the contents of the intestine, whose rapidity will depend on the frecpencj'’ of the repetition of the contractions. But can dilatation of the capillaries be induced by such increased rapidity of motion of the vessels and blood ? Certainly not. In the general pathology of Lotze, the celebrated medical philosoj^her of Gottingen, you find some remarks which are so apt, and, like all the chapters on this subject, so well show the brilliant genius and criticd acumen of the writer, that I shall make use of his expressions. He says : “ Pathologists who seek to explain congestion by increased con- traction of the arteries, assume the thankless task of the Danaides; they cannot show the stopper that prevents the escape of the blood that is pumpe i in with so much difficulty. Over-fulness results if more is introduced and the same amount escapes, or if the same quantity is introduced but less escapes. If we suppose a portion of a vessel to contract more actively and rapidly, it Avill have as little ten- dencv to induce increased afflux or diminished efllu.x of blood as the stamping of a person in a river would to regulate the amount of water.” This refuted hypothesis, of the dilatation of the capillaries depend- ing on more rapid and energetic contraction of the arteries, was ai least based on known observations ; but Lotze's explanation, on the contrary, is so far from all analogy, I might almost say' so metaphysi-