CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 556 bone has often been done unintentionally, and has generally turned out well. Several times in extending anchylosis of the knee-joint, once in the hip-joint, without intending it, I made a partial or com- plete fracture of the bone; the joint remained as before, but above the knee and below the hip the bone bent so as to compensate for the angle at which the joint was anchylosed, and straiglitening was prac- tically accomplished, although not by rupture of the anchylosis. In all these cases I applied the plaster-bandage; the course was just the same as in simple subcutaneous fractures, the pain Avas even less than after breaking up anchyloses, and the result was perfectly satis- factory. I cannot see why Ave should reject this operation of substi- tuting a fracture of the bone for an unsuccessful attempt at straight- ening the anchylosis, and I should much prefer it to any resection of the knee or hip, where it can be done easily, Avithout great force or hard jerks; I even believe that we should always try to substitute fracture of the femur, if it can be easily broken, for resections of the knee at least, no matter how they are done ; in other joints resection is of course to be preferred for various reasons. The perfected meth- ods of extension by weights not only enable us to improve the posi- tion in most cases of acute and chronic inflammations of the knee and hip joints Avith unexpected facility, thus avoiding angular deformity ; but even in developed anchyloses they prove very effectual, except- ing, of course, cases Avhere there is bony anchylosis. Hence extension by Aveights seems to come more into use and to be an adjuvant to treatment by apparatus as well as by hrisement forc'e. Tliere are three methods of resecting bony anchylosis: 1. HJwa jBarton's (published in 1825); in angular anchylosis of the knee, after dividing the soft parts, close above the joint, you saw out from the femur a triangular piece, Avhose base is upward, and Avhose angle pointing doAvnAvard must compensate the angle of the anchylosis (aa’C might also saAV this piece out of the anchylosed joint itself); then the limb is straightened, the joint is untouched, the distortion is jflaced in the thigh, as it is after fracture of the bone. This operation has been done frequently with good results in anch3'loses of the hip and knee. 2. We may make a subcutaneom osteotomy through the anchylosed joint after B. von Langenheck's method; this operation, Avhich Ave found to be very useful in fractures that had united obliquely and in rachitis (page 232), has hitherto been little used in bony anchylosis, hence we can give no opinion of it. Gross has employed a modified form of it Avith great benefit; he bores ol)liquel3' through the anch}'* losis in many places, and divides the adhesions AA’ith fine chisels.