V18 TUMORS. tlie location, from its seat in the connective tissue, its slow, painless growth, etc., it can scarcely be any thing but a lipoma, or possibly a soft connective-tissue tumor; but the former is most probable. Let us take another case : A woman with a tumor of the breast comes to you ; this tumor is hard, nodular, as large as an apple; over the sur- face the skin is retracted at spots, and is adherent to the tumor. From time to time there has been piercing pain, the tumor is sensi- tive to pressure, the axillary glands on that side feel hard. The woman is forty-five years old, well nourished, and looks healthy. Here also the diagnosis is easy; it is a carcinoma: 1. Because the patient is at the age when cancerous tumors of the breast are most frequent, while adenoma and sarcoma usually occur earlier; 2. The consistence might point to fibroma, but this very rarely occurs in the breast, and the swelling of the lymphatic glands speaks against this view, and in favor of carcinoma; 3. Carcinomata are painful, as this case is, while sarcomata and fibromata are not so, usually. We might give further reasons for the diagnosis, but these will suffice. Let us take a third case: A boy ten years old has had for two years a slowly-enlarging, moderately painful swelling of the middle part of the lower jaw; at this point the teeth have fallen out without being diseased; the en- largement of the bone is evenly round, and reaches from the first back tooth of one side to the similar point on the other; below, it is hard as bone, above (in the mouth) it is covered by mucous membrane, is firm and elastic. Can this bony swelling be the result of chronic in- flammation, of a caries or necrosis ?. This is not probable: 1. Because the pain has always been slight; 2. Because there has been no sup- puration, which would scarcely fail to occur in an inflammation of the jaw that had lasted two years; 3. Because the swelling is more bounded and regular than it is apt to be in bony dejjosits in caries and necrosis; 4. Because, at the patient’s age, osseous inflammation in the lower jaw is not apt to occur unless from phosphoreous poison- ing, Avhich has not occurred here. Plence this is a case of tumor; is it an osteoma ? The part projecting into the mouth is too soft for this; we may pass a fine needle into the tumor from above. Is it a chondroma? Consistence, form, mode of growth, and age of the patient, agree with this view, but the locality does not; chondroniata in the middle of the lower jaw at this age are very rare. It is a cen- tral osteo-sarcoma, probably a giant-celled s.arcoma; all the symptoms speak in favor of this idea, and you know that these tumors are fre- quent in the lower jaw during youth. I say you know—I might better say you will gradually learn; and I can only advise you, whenever you have examined a patient with a tumor at the clinic, to read about it when you go home, and to coinjiare the individual case with tiie