400 TRAUMATIC AXD INFLAMMATORY *DISEASES, ETC. clisea.sed. In man the disease runs its course without much danger, as it does in cattle; only very young, feeble children could be endan- gered by it. [x^ccording to Letheby (“ Lectures on Food ”), “ Dr. Living.stone tells us that when the flesh of animals affected with pleuro-pneumonia is eaten in South Africa by either natives or Europeans, it invarial)ly produces malignant carbuncle. He says, indeed, that the effects of this i3oison were often experienced by the missionaries who had eaten the meat, even when the presence of the disease was scarcely per- ceptible. . . . The virus, he says, is neither destroyed by boiling nor by roasting, and of this fact he had innumerable instances. Now it is a remarkable circumstance that ever since the importation of this disease (pleuro-pneumonia) into England from Holland in 1842, the annual number of deaths from carbuncle, ^Jhlegmon, and boils has been gradually inci’easing.”] Canine madness (hydrophobia, lyssa), which is transferred from animals to men, is better known and more frequent than either of the above diseases. From unknown reasons, the disease appears to de- velop primarily only in dogs; but from the bite of this animal, and the entrance of its saliva into the wound, it may be transferred to any animal, and apparently the poison does not decrease by inoculation, but is always propagated with equal power. For instance, a inad dog bites a cat; the disease develops in the latter, and she bites a man; an animal being inoculated with the saliva or blood of the man will' have the disease. The symptoms in the dog are described by the veterinarians as follows: We distinguish a raving and a quiet madness; previous to both of them the dog is downcast and eats little. After this state has lasted about a week the raving madness begins; the dog runs about in an objectless, unsteady way, apparently urged by some in- ward anxiety ; if irritated, he bites at any thing coming in his way; the mouth is dry; he tries to drink, but soon runs from the water without taking it; he emaciates, he totters, then his hind-legs become par- alyzed, his barking changes to a kind of howl, twitchings come on, and in three or four days are followed by death. In the still mad- ness, paralysis of the muscles of the lower jaw occurs early, render- ing biting and eating impossible. The other symptoms are the same ! as just described. Some do not consider the.se two forms of the i disease as distinct, but as different stages, only lasting a longer or j shorter time. On autopsy of animals dying from this disease, we usually find the gastric and intestinal mucous membrane much red- dened ; this is probably merely due to the various foreign bodies that the dog has swallowed. Deyond this, we find nothing abnor-