DISEASES OF THE GRANULATIONS. 109 traction of the cicatrix is difficult; a foreign body at the bottom of a tubular granulating wound (a fistula) j this abnormal j^rolifeiation is also particularly apt to occur in large wounds, which can only contract slowly; it appears as if the activity of the tissue was occasionally ex- hausted, and no longer capable of continuing the requisite condensa- tion and cicatrization, so that it only produces relaxed, spongy granu- lations. As long as there are granulations of the above character, rising above the edges of the skin, cicatrization does not usually pro- gress. The wound would probably heal, but not for a very long time. We have plenty of remedies for hastening the healing under such cir- cumstances ; these are especially caustics, by which we partly destroy the granulation surface, and thus excite a stronger growth from the depth. At first you may cauterize the granulating surface daily, es- pecially along the edges, with nitrate of silver, whereupon a white slough will quickly form, which will become detached in twelve to twenty-four hours, or even sooner; repeat this cauterization as re- quired, till the granulating surface is even. Another very good rem- edy is sprinkling the wound with powdered red precipitate of mercury (hydrar. oxyd. rubrum), which also should be repeated daily, to im- prove the granulating surface. Compression with adhesive plasters also acts very well occasionally. If the granulations be exceedingly dense and large, we often may succeed soonest by cutting some of them off with the scissors ; the consequent haemorrhage is readily arrested by ajeplying charpie. Where the proliferation is less, as- tringent lotions, such as decoction of oak-bark, cinchona-bark, lead- water, etc., may answer to excite the sluggish cicatrization. 2. By erethitic granulations we mean those characterized by great pain on the slightest provocation ; they are usually very proliferant granulations, which readily bleed; it is a very rare condition. In excessive erethism of the granulations, they are so sensitive that they cannot endure the slightest touch or any dressing; a less degree of sen- sitiveness of the granulations is not so rare. On what it depends, is not very certain; granulation tissue itself has no nerves ; in most cases touching it causes no sensation, only the conduction of the pressure to the subjacent nerves causes sensation. In the above excessive sensibil- ity, probably the ends of the nerves at the floor of the wound are degen- erated in a peculiar manner; perhaps there are miniature thickenings of the finest nerve-ends, like those that we shall hereafter see on large nerve-trunks. It would be a thankworthy task to make a careful ex- amination of this question. We occasionally observe similar condi- tions in the cicatrices in large nerves, and shall speak of this hereafter. For this very painful sensitiveness, which not only interferes with .healing, but greatly worries the i^atient, you may first try soothing