673 ADENOMATA. Deck or to both sides, in numbers or solitary, may attain a consider- able size, compress the trachea, and cause suflfocation. Much more rarely the regular double-sided hypertrophy of the thyroid attains a dangerous size. Goitre is chiefly remarkable for its endemic occur- rence ; it is found mostly in mountaineers: it is seen in the Hartz, Thuringian, Silesian, and Bohemian mountains, and in the Alps, although not equally frequent in all parts. Some valleys of Switzer- land and of the Austrian Alps are entirely free from it. It has been ascribed to the most different causes, especially to the water and soil, Avithout any definite scientific reason having been found by accurate investigations. Undoubtedly, climatical and geological conditions have much to do with this disease. Complete similarity in the con- stitution (probably often hereditary) of goitrous patients can hardly be proved; a certain connection with cretinism cannot be denied, in- asmuch as most cretins have goitre; but the disease is more frequent in persons with well-developed bones and brain. Goitre may be con- genital in some rare cases, but does not usually increase till the com- mencement of puberty; the growth rarely continues beyond the fiftieth 3^ear; goitres which have continued harmless till then, usually cease to grow, and subsequently canse no trouble; to this rule there are onl}’- a few exceptions, where cancerous goitre develops from the above hyperplastic form, infecting the neighboring Ij^mphatic glands; these almost alwaj^s prove fatal by suffocation. It is scarcely necessary to consider struma aneurysmatica as a peculiar variet3q as it is merely a goitre accompanied by great dilatation of the afferent arteries. Prep- arations of iodine are usually emplo3'ed against this disease; they are only efficacious, howcA'er, at the commencement; later they are almost useless; they are, however, used both internally and externall3', as we have no other remedy. Extirpation of hypertrophied thyroid glands, as well as of large goitrous tumors, is very dangerous; it is often fol- lowed by severe haemorrhage or occasionally by sudden death from the extent of the operation, so that we should only try it in small movable goitres in 3'oung persons. Even then the operation is occasionally dangerous, and some experience is necessary to tell beforehand which tumors can be safely operated on. In general, I would warn 3"ou against performing such operations for the cosmetic effect; if there be danger of suffocation, we may be obliged to try even doubtful opera- tions. The best chances are offered Iw movable goitrous tumors in the median line of the neck in 3’oung persons, while the removal of even small ones deeply embedded in the hypertrophied lateral lobes is difficult and not free from danger. Even the slightest operations of this sort must be pci formed with the greatest care, especially in regard