DISLOCATION OF BONES AFTER PARTIAL DESTRUCTION. 463 puration {ostitis intQT7i(i fiinfjoscC). TI16 result of such a solution of bone in these, or in other joints, is that by muscular traction the bones are displaced in the direction where the destruction is most advanced. And from this deformity we may judge approximately of the extent of the destruction. A short time since, I amputated a foot which was BO distorted by such a destruction of bone, without any suppuration, on the inner side of the talus and calcaneus, that the inner border of the foot was greatly drawn up, just as in well-marked congenital club- foot, and the patient walked very insecurely on the outer border of the foot. A good-sized ulcer had also formed on the outer edge, which had latterly entirely prevented walking. I saw a similar case in the wrist-joint: A girl twenty years old had suffered for a long time from pain in the left wrist, without swelling of the soft parts; pressure on the wrist was very painful; gradually, without any swell- ing or siippuration, the hand became very much abducted; if the pa- tient were anesthetized, the hand could be returned to its normal position, and then it was found that part of the wrist had entirely dis- appeared. In the larger spongy bones, as the calcaneus, and in the epiphyses of the larger hollow bones, a central cavity, or a bone-abscess, may form, and this may be accompanied by a necrosis centrahs. In the great majority of cases, however, the ostitis is accompanied by a ; purulent periostitis; this is particularly the case in the small bones of the wrist and ankle; these are so small that, when the periosteum be- ;i comes diseased, the disease readily extends to the entire bone and its ‘articular surfaces, and that conversely primary disease of the bone quickly shows its effect on the periosteum and articular surfaces. In these cases also there is implication of the sheaths of the tendons and of the skin, which is perforated at various places by ulceration from within outward. In the hand the radius and ulna as well as the articular ends of the metacarpal bones may also be implicated, and in the foot the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, as well as the posterior lends of the metatarsal bones. The wrist and ankle joints are thus iswollen out of shape; in many places thin pus escapes from the ijfistulous openings, and the bones of these joints are jjartly dissolved iiand partly replaced by spongy granulations, or else are entirely or [jpartly necrosed. It is hardly necessary to tell you that the course *Df this form of primary suppurative ostitis also, in regard to vital re- flations, is just as variable as that of chronic periostitis, and that here lalso you see cases of a typical atonic, and others of a fungous wariety, while there are a variety of cases between these extremes. I must particularly mention one other form of chronic ostitis, viz., tostitis with caseous derjeneration of the intlarnmfitory neoplasia. You ftre already acquainted with this variety of chronic inflammation; it