213 PKOGNOSIS IN OPEN FRACTURES. m the question as to whether we shall try for union, or proceed to amputation, we must consider how useful the limb can be if union results and all unfavorable chances have been overcome. In compli- cated fractures of the foot and lower part of the leg this question may be particularly important, and it has frequently been necessary to amputate a foot because of the change of form and position result- ing after union of an open, comminuted fracture, which rendered it useless for walking. The same thing is to be considered when, in a case of moderately extensive gangrene of the foot, we wish to decide if it should be amputated or not. The dead portion of the foot may be detached in such an inconvenient shape that the remaining stump is neither useful for walking nor for the adaptation of an artificial Hrab. In such cases we should amputate, for all our methods of am- putating are designed for the future application of artificial limbs. Since the nature of the subject has led us directly to the indica- tions for amputation in injuries, I shall at once proceed to the sub- ject of secondary amputations. In the question as to whether a complicated fracture should be amputated or not, you might readily satisfy yourself with the idea that it might be done at any future time if the fears of an unfavorable course should be realized. On this point attentive observation shows that there are two periods for this secondary amjDutation. The first danger threatens the patient from an acute decomposition about the wound and the consequent putrid intoxication of the blood. The question as to this danger is settled during the first four days; if it arises, and you then amputate (this must be done far above the point of putrefaction), it is just at the most unfavorable period for the operation, for you will very rarely succeed in saving your patient. Somewhat more favorable, but still unfavor- able as compared with rimary amputations (those made within the first forty-eight hours), are the results of amputations made from the eighth to the fourteenth day; they are particularly unfavorable if the symptoms of acute purulent infection, pj’-mmia, are distinctly present. If the patient has survived two or three weeks, and profuse exhaust- ing suppuration or other local indication for amputation arise, the results are again relatively favorable. When some surgeons have asserted that secondary amputations give better results than primarv, they have almost exclusively considered these later secondary ampu- tations. But, if v/e bear in mind how many patients with open fr.ao- tures die during the first three weeks, that is, how few of them live till the favorable time for secondary amjoutations, it seems to me we can liave no doubt about the decided advantages of primary amputations. Up to the present time I have rarely found indications for late second- ary amputations.