39 TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD. use styptics. In parencliymatous bleeding- from the face, neck, or perinmum, we may resort to styptics with advantage, if it makes no difference whether the wound suppurates subsequently; but, if the hemorrhage be considerable, and styptics fail, subsequent ligation is much more difficult, as the womid is often terribly smeared up by the previous applications. In surgery you have nothing to expect from the internal adminis- tration of remedies recommended as styptics. Absolute quiet, keeping cool, narcotics, purgatives, may occasionally be of great assistance in congestiv'e haemorrhages, but their action is far too slow for the bleed- ing that we have to deal with in surgery. The general debility from profuse haemorrhage will, of course, be most effectually combated by arresting the bleeding; but, while doing this, you may have the assistants, not otherwise employed, try to resuscitate the patient by smelling-salts, sprinlding with water, etc. You should not yourself join in these attempts, till the bleed- ing is stopped; then you may give wine, rum, or brandy, warm coffee, or soup; cover the patient up warmly ; let him take a few drops of spir- its of ether or acetic ether, and smell ammonia, etc. I have never had a patient bleed to death under my hands, but have met two cases where the patients died, two and five hours after extensive operations, with dyspnoea and spasmodic contractions, apparently as a result of the great loss of blood; these cases decided me, under similar cir- cumstances, to inject the blood of a healthy person into the veins of the bleeding one. This operation, which is called transfusion, is quite ancient; it originated in the middle of the seventeenth cen- tury. After the world had been for a time astonished at its boldness, it was laid aside and derided, but, toward the end of the last century, it was again drawn from the shade of oblivion by English physicians, es- pecially the obstetricians. After Dieffenbach had made some attempts again to introduce transfusion into Germany without success, Mar- tin has of late the credit of again calling attention to it as a mode of saving life, while Panum has exhaustively treated the subject in physiological experiments. Statistics show that the operation was favorable in the great majority of cases, and was very easy to per- form. Although formerly lamb’s blood Avas successfully injected into man’s veins, it is best and most natm-al to choose blood from a young, liealthy, and strong human being. The instruments required are a knife, forceps, scissors, a fine canula, and a 4—6 oz. glass syringe to fit it. We open the vein of a healthy, strong young man, in the man- ner liereafter to be described, and receive first about four ounces of the blood in a rather high bowl, standing in a basin full of blood-Avarm water; the blood, flowing into the bowl, is beaten with a twirling