615 TREATMENT OF TUMORS. Infectious tumors are usually at first solitary, very seldom multiple in the sense above indicated. Tumors that are multiple from the start are rarely infectious. ’Wlien we use the terms dangerous, malignant, and infectious, as synonymous, we do so without regard to the locality where the tumors are developed. A solitary benignant tumor in the brain is always malignant, fi-om its loeality; an infectious tumor at the same point possibly never goes beyond local infection, as it soon proves fatal. All these things are to be carefully weighed, if we would obtain clear ideas on these points. Tumors are not always to be termed infectious (malignant, cancer» ous) because of a return at the point of operation. In this case it is very important to decide whether the recurring tumor has started fi’om portions of the original tumor, that have been left at the time of operation (continuous recurrence, I'hiersch), or, possibly years after a perfect operation, a new tumor has occurred from similar causes in the cicatrix or in its vicinity (regional recurrence). If the point of operation remains free, and, after the operation, swellings of the lym- phatic glands, of the same nature as the extirpated tumor, appear, or if, under similar circumstances, without swelling of the lymjahatic glands, growths occur in other organs, it may be considered certain that these lymphatic glands and other organs were already infected at the time of operation, although this may not have been susceptible of proof on examination. When a person is infeeted from a tumor, we term it a dyscrasia, just as we do when one is infected from a focus of inflammation. In such persons foreign materials circulate in the fluids of the body, inducing in them a pathological condition. In infectious tumors this dyscrasia displays itself by general disturbance of the nutrition—ema- ciation, marasmus; how soon and how extensively this shall occur depends very essentially on the seat of the tumor and its peculiarities (softening, becoming gangrenous, ulceration, bleeding, etc.) as well as on the strength and age of the patient. About the treatment of tumors in general I shall here merely mention that they are only curable by removal from the body, whether by the knife, ligature, 6craseur, caustic, or any other means. The removal of intense and rapidly-infecting tumors is usually merely a means of prolonging life or of alleviating the sufferings of the patient; tumors that cannot be operated on we can only treat symptomati- cally, to ease the patient. I shall speak of the indications for opera- ting when treating of the diflbrent forms of tumors.