TREATMENT OF OPEN FRACTURES. 226 usually unnecessar}'^ and injurious; we should only draw out splinters of bone when we think we feel or see them entirely loose; the less you examine the wound the better. We leave all adherent splinters of bone; sawing- off pointed ends of fragments (primary resection of the fragments) I consider unnecessary and generally injurious ; I have only done it when, even under chloroform, they projected so that it was impossible to replace and keep them in position. The reposition of the fragments should be accurately made before the application of the dressing; subsequent bending and traction should be decidedly avoided, and, if it should be necessary on account of great dislocation, should be postponed till healing of the wound. In the same way early traction on half-detached splinters of bone is entirely inappro- priate and useless ; a piece of dead bone adherent to the periosteum or other soft parts is gradually detached spontaneously, and may then be removed. We should not examine till quite late, when the wound is fistulous, to see if fragments situated deeply are necrosed, and should then do it very carefully and with very clean instruments. If there be extensive necrosis of one or both fractured ends, their ex- traction may be very difficult; we then resort to the same operations as for necrosis from any cause ; we shall speak of this when treating of diseases of the bones, but this should not be done till the process has become chronic. The union of complicated fractures always requires longer than in simple fractures ; indeed, in protracted suppurations it may take double the time. We have to decide this by manual examination, and not allow the patient to attempt walking till the fracture is perfectly con- solidated. The disappearance of the callus, its condensation, its atro- phy externally and its reabsorption till the medullary cavity is re- stored, go on just as in simple subcutaneous fractures. The treat- ment of complicated fractures is one of the most difficult things in surgery ; we never cease learning on this point.