riiOGXOSIS IN OPEN FRACTURES. 211 mentioned the severe general diseases, erysipelas, putrid-blood poison- ingj pya3mia, tetanus, and delirium tremens. The difference between contusions and contused wounds is even more strongly marked in simple and compound fractures, as regards course and prognosis. While in many cases we can scarcely call a person with simple frac- ture sick (we have not spoken of fever there, for it rarely occurs), and under the present convenient treatment such an injury is rather an inconvenience than a misfortune, a compound fracture of a large bone of an extremity, or sometimes even of a finger, may induce severe, and too frequently fatal, disease. But, not to alarm you too much, T Avill at once add that there are many grades of danger even in open fractures, and, moreover, that their treatment has been much improved of late. It is very difficult and important, but not always possible, to make a correct prognosis about an open fracture at once. The life or death of the patient may occasionally hang on the choice of the treatment the first few days, so that we must study this subject more accurately. Tlie symiDtoms of an open fracture are of course essentially the same as of the subcutaneous, except that discoloration from extravasated blood is often wanting, because at least part of the blood escapes tlirough the wound. The fractured ends not infrequently project from the wound, or lie exposed in it, so that a glance may suffice for the diagnosis of an open fracture. But this is not enough. We must do oui- best to ascertain how the fracture was caused, whether by direct or indirect force, and how great the force; if it was accompanied by crushing and twisting ; whether arteries and nerves have been torn; if the patient lost much blood, and what is his condition at present. There are cases where we can say, at the first glance, healing is im- possible ; amputation must be resorted to. When a locomotive has run over the knee of an unfortunate railroad hand, when a hand or forearm has been caught in the wheels or rollers of machiner}q when a premature explosion in blasting stone has crushed or torn off a limb, or hundred-weights have completely mashed a foot or leg, it is not difficult for the sm-geon to decide at once on primary amputation, and usually in such cases the state of the limb is such that the patients also, though with a sad heart, quickly consent to the operation. These are not the difficult cases. And in other cases it may be just as easy to foretell, with considerable certainty, the probability of a favorable cure. For instance, if fracture of the leg from indirect force has fol- lowed too great bending of the bone, the broken pointed end of the crest of the tibia may puncture and force through the skin; in such a case there is no contusion, but simply a tear through the skin. Wlien a pointed body strikes forcibly against a small portion of a