278 ACUTE NON-TKAUMATIC INFLAMMATIOX OF SOFT PARTS. it would induce temporary hyperaemia and swelling of the oral and gastric mucous membrane; should one continue the use of so acrid a substance for a length of time, he might excite a severe gastritis. Except in cases of the first example, these rapidly-repeated irritations ai-e not frequent in practice, but they have a great deal to do with the origin of chronic inflammation ; when, of themselves insignificant, they act on parts more or less weak. We must again return to this point. 2. Catching Gold.—You all know that by catching cold one may acquire various diseases, especially acute catarrh and inflammations of the joints or lungs ; but we do not know what is the particular inju- I’ious influence in catching cold, or what immediate changes it causes in the tissues. The rapid change of temperature is blamed as the chief cause of catching cold, but by this means we cannot experi- mentally induce an inflammation, or any similar disease. One catches cold from being heated, and then being exposed to a cold draught for a length of time; by careful observation he may say just when he caught cold. The cold may have a purely local action; for instance, one sits for a time at the window, and the cold wind blows on the side of his face toward the window ; after a few hours he is attacked by paralysis of the facial nerve. We may here assume that molecular changes have occurred in the nerve-substance, by which the conduct- ing power of the nerve is lost. Another might get a conjunctivitis from the same cause. These are purely local colds. Another case is more frequent, viz., that on catching cold that part is attacked which in the person afl'ected is most liable to disease, the “locus minoris resistenticeP Some persons, afl^ catching cold in any way, liave acute catarrh of the nose (snuffles); others have gastric catarrh, others muscular pains, and still others have inflammations of the joints. Now, as these parts are not always directly affected by the injury (as when one has nasal catarrh from getting his feet wet), we must sup- pose that the whole body is implicated, but the action of the injury is only shown at the locus minoris resistentice. Whether this transfer of such injurious influences to a special part of the body is due to the nerves, or to the blood and other fluids of the body, is a question which cannot at present be decided, and about which physicians are divided into the tAvo great bodies of neuropaths and humoralists. Reasons may be adduced for both A'iews. I rather incline to the humoral view, and regard it as possible that, for instance, chemical changes may occur or be prevented in the skin while sweating, Avhich may have a poisonous effect on the blood, and may act as an irritant noAv on this, now on that organ. According to the old form of speech, these in- flammations due to catching cold are called “ rheumatic ” (from ^tviia.