CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 424 ing connection between some chronic surgical diseases and tubercu- losis of internal organs, especially of the lungs. Although there are a good many cases where pulmonary tubercles follow chronic sup- puration of bones or joints, and caseous degeneration of swollen lymphatic glands, just as often death of the patient results, after years of illness, from exhaustion, and on section we do not find a trace of tubercle. Under some circumstances, too, there is no ab- sorption of the caseous masses, or else, if absorbed, they do not in- duce tubercle. This would go to prove that there must not only be a disposition of inflammatory foci to become caseous, but also a dis- position to the dissemination of tubercles, and that these two dispo- sitions are not necessarily combined as in the rabbit and Guinea-pig. The fact that around a small inoculation a cheesy focus forms, and from this disease is disseminated to the internal organs, is a peculiar- ity of these animals, as it is of some human beings. This peculiarity is called the tuberculous diathesis. Nor must I hide from you that some pathologists only acknowledge a frequent coincidence between chronic su]Dpurating or caseous foci and tubercle, and refer both to a common, unknown cause. But all this cannot prevent me from rec- oo-nizins: the exceeding value of the above-described recent observa- tions, and regarding them as one of the greatest" advances of modern pathology. The new etiology of tuberculosis has given treatment a peculiar, and, at a casual glance, a changed position. We now have to ask ourselves the following question; Is there any remedy or mode of treatment by which we can prevent a person, who has on or in him any caseous pus, from being infected with tuberculosis ? To this we must at once say no. The mode of infection is so little Imown, that on this account alone we could not speak of its prevention. The in- terval between the development of the primary point of inflammation and the succeeding tuberculous infection is entirelv incomputable. In some cases the formation of tubercles in the lungs appears to fol- low' almost on the heels of chronic bronchial catarrh, wdiile in other cases the two forms of disease are separated by years. Tj'pical tuber- cles may also dry up and become indurated in various ways, or they may rapidly increase, unite, and soften. In short, the variety of the process is very great. But all this gives no starting-point for the treatment. As regards hereditary influence, to w’hich so much im- portance is properly attached in tuberculosis, some enigmas have been solved by, and some former experiences readily adapt themselves to, the new views. If true tubercle could only develop from infection through the patient himself, of course there could be no talk of direct inheritance of tuberculosis in the strict meaning of the term. Only