45 UNION OF WOUNDS. this is especially apt to happen with our German wire, which has not yet attained the softness of the English. The pleasantest wires are those made of a mixture of gold and silver and of platinum, of which A-ery fine, pliable, and, at the same time, firm wire may be made. [Very nice Avire is made of lead, and it is supposed by some to be an advan- tage that this AAull break if the parts should swell excessively.] Still, hoAV ridiculous it Avould be to try to substitute these expensive articles for ordinary silk, by AA'hich millions of wounds have been healed excel- lently, and will be in future ! I pass over the many newly-recommend- ed modes of fastening the wire by knots or twisting; they show that even those who advocate metallic sutures have found some trouble in fastening the knot, I first make a simple knot, draw it together, make two or three short twists, and cut off the ends close to the twdsted part. Wire cuts the edges of the wound, just as silk does, if it be very fine. I have rarely found the little objections to silk sutures sufficiently annoying to make me replace them by metal sutures. Beginners generally err in making sutures too tight; this constricts the edges of the Avound. When they swell, as they mostly do, this constriction is rarely enough to kill the tissue at once, but causes inflammation with redness and suppuration about the puncture, which may spread and impede healing of the wound if the sutures be not removed in time. Straight needles may be best introduced with the fingers; but curved needles, especially when they are small or the wound deeply seated, are introduced better and more certainly by means of a needle- holder. There are numbers of these; I am in the habit of using DieffenhacKs. It consists of a forceps with short, thick blades, be- tween AA'hich we hold the needle firmly and securely, and introduce it through the skin in the direction of its curvature. This perfectly sim- ple instrument suffices for almost all cases, and in good hands is sur- passed by no instrument for security in holding and introducing the needle. Comphcated instruments are especially suited for unskilful surgeons, says JDieffenhach, in the unparalleled introduction to his Ope- rative Surgery; not the instrument, but the hand of the surgeon, should operate. Practice and habit render this or that instrament indispen- sable. Thus some find it complicated and inconvenient to seize the lips of the Avound Avith forceps, as I taught you, although this is bet- ter than holding them Avith the fingers; for me, the latter Avould be very inconvenient. In this matter any one may do as his habits and inclination lead him. When I have to sew some deep part—as the velum, rectum, or vagina—I always use needles Avith handles. Of course the number of sutures to be applied depends on the