INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 250 exercise, to make his limb as useful as possible in its new position, which it may have occupied for months or years. We may facilitate this exercise by breaking up the adhesions about the head of the bone, by rotating it forcibly while the patient is anaesthetized. If, as occa- sionally happens in shoulder-dislocations, the head of the bone in its abnormal position so presses on the brachial plexus as to cause paraly- sis of the arm, if reduction be impossible, it may be advisable to make an incision down to the head of the bone to dissect it out and saw it oflF, i. e., to make a regular resection of the head of the humerus. I have seen a case where, in complete paralysis of the ai-rn after a luxa- tion of the humerus dowmvard and inward, decided improvement of the function of the arm was attained by the above operation, although there was not complete recovery of the paralysis. COMPLICATED DISLOCATIONS. A dislocation may be complicated in various ways; most fre- quently with partial or entire fracture of the head of the bone, which is difficult to cure, and in which reposition is often only partly suc- cessful ; in treatment, attention must always be paid to the fracture; i. e., a dressing must be worn till the fracture has united. At the same time it is advisable to renew the dressing frequently, say every week, and to apply it in a different position each time, so that the joint may not become stiff. Nevertheless, we cannot alwa3fs succeed in attaining perfect mobility, so that I can only advise you in your practice always to give a doubtful prognosis in such cases. Another complication is a coincident wound of the joint. For instance, the broad articular surface of the lower epiphysis of the humerus or of the radius may be driven out of tlie joint with such force as to tear through the soft parts and skin, and lie exposed. Of course the diagnosis is cas}’^ in such cases ; reposition is accom- plished according to the above rules, but we still have a wound of the joint; and we are liable to all the chances spoken of under Avounds of joints, so that for the prognosis, the varieties of the possible results and the treatment, I refer you to Avhat has already been said (p. 224). Of course, it is worse Avhcn there is an open fracture through the joint; here we can neither expect rapid closure of the Avound nor restoration of the function of tlie joint, and Ave run all the dangers tliat threaten complicated open fractures and Avounds of joints. The decision as to Avhat must be done in such cases is easy, Avhen there is at tlie same time considerable crushing or tearing of the soft parts; under such circumstances, primary amputation must be done. If the injuiy of