UXION OF WOUNDS—IRRITATION. 57 the vagus nerve, of the movements of the intestines from irritation of tlie splanchnic nerve, etc. Here a vaso-motor nerve-system is sup- posed which arrests the contraction of the muscles; could not such a vaso-motor nerve-system also be supposed for the vessels—nerves, iri-itation of which lessens the tone of the muscles of the vessels and thus renders the walls less capable of resisting the pressure of blood ? The doctrine about vaso-motor nerves is so difficult to explain, that even a brief exposition of the probable possibilities of the process would lead us too far ;■ hence I must content myself with having called attention to the analogous physiological processes. Yirchoio and Hmle agree in the view that the symptoms of fluxion are due to paralysis of the vessels, although they refer this paralysis to dift'erent causes; on the whole, most credence is attached to the vieAV that the muscles of the vessels, like those of the heart, are partly under the influence of sympathetic, partly of cerebro-spinal nerves, and that the former cause the rhythmical (automatic) contractions of the vessels, and tiie latter act as regulators or obstructors of these contractions. Irri- tation of the sympathetic filaments would increase the contractions of the vessels, dividing them would result in paralysis of the mus- cles of the vessels and their consequent dilatation ; but the latter might also be caused by irritation of the cerebro-spinal obstructive nerves. The discovery by Aeby, Eberth, and Auerbach, that the blood- capillaries are entirely composed of cells, might excite new hypotheses about the irritability of the capillary cells and their influence on dila- tation and contraction of the capillaries, although even this would not solve the mechanical difficulty which opposes the idea of an active vascular dilatation. In the action of local irritation and entirely local dilatation of the vessels we have the choice of considering that irritation of the nerves of the vessels (or of the living cell-substance of the capillary walls) directly disturbs their function, or that this dis- turbance is due to reflex irritation.’ You have now material enough for meditation. None of the hypotheses advanced can claim to fully explain the ej'^mptoms of fluxion, although some of them perhaps contain the germ for future perfect development. Still the recognition of this truth, the dis- tinction of hypotheses from observation, is useful; it does not limit the onward progress of experiment, but constantly reanimates it. Congratulate yourselves that it is permitted to you and the coming generation-to clear up this point. We shall now leave this question, and the next hour shall again return to the field of certain observation, to study the effect of the wounding on the tissue itself.