681 CYSTOMATA, CARCINOMATA. light, and, before we have time to look around, they are turned into history by the careful labors of energetic young experimenters. In the natural sciences we always dislike to give short definitions, because this is often impossible, on account of the passage of one pro- cess, or of one formation, into another. We may say that carcino- mata are very infectious tumors, and that this infection, which first attacks the lymphatic glands, afterward more distant organs, is prob- ably due to the passage of elements from the tumor (whether of cells or juice is not yet kno-wn) through the lymphatic vessels and veins into the blood. This common clinical definition of carcinoma should be controlled by the anatomical structure of these tumors. Anatomical peculiari- ties, easily recognized with the naked eye or with the microscope, are sought for. The classical monographs of Astley Cooper on diseases of the testis and breast (the latter, unfortunately, unfinished) show that, by a careful study of the points perceptible to the naked eye, a great deal may be attained by studying a single organ; but a general- ization by aid of the anatomical preparations alone is impossible, as we have often felt, in the course of these lectures—it is frequently difficult, even with our present aids; so that I cannot blame Virchow for try- ing, in his great work on tumors, to give most minute descriptions of the different forms of tumors at certain localities. Here, where we must express ourselves briefly, to give our descriptions an anatomical basis, we must be somewhat more decided and summary. When the naked eye no longer sufficed for the diagnosis of tumors, the aid of the microscope was invoked, and characteristic aj^pearances were sought that might occur in the same way in all the tumors we have described. Still, whether the characteristics of the cellular elements were sought in their processes, the size of the nucleus or of the nucle- olus, the clinical and anatomical peculiarities would not always remain congruous. When the cells proved inefficacious as evidence of carci- noma, it was sought for in the general structure of the tumor; alveo- lar formation was asserted to be the anatomical peculiarity. We even come in collision with this idea occasionally; the net-like forma- tion of neoplastic lymphatic gland-tissue may also be tprmed “ alveo- lar,” and even acknowledging that the lymphoma net-work is so pecu- liarly characterized by its form that it may be readily excluded, there still remain some forms of chondromata and sarcomata, especially the giant-celled, and other large-celled sarcomata forms, which we have already designated as alveolar sarcomata (pages CIS and 651), as the ghosts of cancer. Since anatomical study, especially the origin of neoplasms, has been regarded as an essential principle of division, we escape all the