LOCAL TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 429 and anti-mercurialists have disputed for a long time ; and in the last decennium it has entered new stages, without, however, having brought all physicians to a conclusion on this question. I incline to the views of tlie anti-mercurialists. In the course of your studies you will hear still more about this important and interesting point. Iodide of potash is generally recognized as one of the most important and efficacious remedies for syphilitic diseases of the bones and glands, while it does little good in other syphilitic diseases. LECTURE XXX. Local Treatment of Chronic Inflammation: Rest, Compression, Eesorbents, AntipUo- gistics, Derivatives, Fontanels, Setons, Moxaj, the Hot Iron. It still remains, at the close of the chapter on chronic inflamma- tion, to run through the remedies that we may employ locally, and which are more or less prominent according to the case. Where we do not succeed in finding a constitutional cause for a chronic inflam- mation, we are limited to local remedies. Absolute rest of the inflamed part is necessary in all cases where there are pain and congestion. When possible, these are combined with elevation of the diseased part, by means of suspensories or pads placed beneath. This, by facilitating the return of the blood, has the effect of relieving and finally removing the venous tension, which is favored by the absolute rest, and hence is especially important in cases where venous congestion has induced or increased chronic inflammation. Compression. This is applied by wrapping the diseased part with moist or elastic bandages, plaster-dressing, strips of adhesive plaster, or even by covering with moderate weights (as in compressing swollen inguinal glands). Compression is one of the most important, and, when made to act regularly, is the most certain means of re- moving chronic inflammatory infiltrations. Massage, of which we spoke when treating of distortions, is par- ticularly serviceable for getting rid of old infiltrations; it sometimes accomplishes wonders ; but this method of treatment must be fol- lowed with great energy and perseverance. Moist warmth in the form of cataplasms, continually applied, is also very efficacious, as are also the hydropathic wraps. These are applied by dipping a cloth, folded several times, in cold water, wring- ing it out, enveloping the affected part with it, and covering with some air-tight substance, such as oil-silk, gutta-percha cloth, etc., and