193 UNION OF FRACTURES. the bone in the normal cortical substance. In case there has been little or no displacement of the fragments, the bone is thus so fully restored that Ave can no longer determine tlie point of fracture, either on the living person or the anatomical preparation. The above changes occur in a long bone of a rabbit, where there has been little displacement, in about twenty-six or twenty-eight Aveeks, but in the long bones of man last much longer, so far as Ave can judge from preparations that Ave accidentally have the opportunity of ex- amining. The entire process, so excellently con- trived by Nature, is essentially the same as what we observe in the normal devel- opment of the Iona: bones : for there, too, Lonqitudinal secHon of a fractured ^ ® ^ bone from a ralibit, after twenty- the same reabsorption and condensation four weeks. Progressive reab- ^ 111 sorption of the callus. Rcstora- take place in the medullary canal and the tion of the medullary cavity, *■ naturai size ; after Gunt. cortical layers of the long bones, as Ave have just studied in formation of callus. Ei^cept the regeneration of nerves, no such complete restoration of a destroyed part takes place in any other part of the human body as Ave have seen occurs in the bones. I must still add a feAV remarks about the healing of flat and spongy bones. In the case of the first, which we see most frequently in the healing of fissures of the cranial bones, the development of proAU- sional callus is very slight, and occasionally appears to be entirely Avanting. In the scapula, where dislocation of small, or half or Avholly detached fragments is more apt to occur, external callus forms more readily, although even here it never becomes very thick. On the union of spongy bones, too, in Avhich, as a rule, there is also but little dislocation, there is less development of external callus than in the long bones; Avhile, on the other hand, the cavities of the spongy sub- stance in the immediate vicinity of the fracture are filled with bony substance, of Avhich part, at least, subsequently disappears. As may readily be imagined, the conditions Avill be somewhat more complicated when the ends of the bone are much dislocated, or Avhen fragments are entirely broken off and displaced. In such cases there is such a rich development of callus, partly from the entire sur- face of the dislocated fragments and from the medullary cavity, and partly in the soft parts betAveen the fragments, that for some distance all the fragments are embedded in a bony mass, and organically glued Fig. 45.