ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. V51 29. —P. 523. Less attempt is made than formerly to obtain movable false joints after resection; but more frequently we seek by partial re- moval of the bones chiefly diseased under Lister's method, and with the least possible suppuration, to cause anchylosis of the joint. 30. —P. 523. Unfortunately, return of the disease is not rare, even in joints which had been healed by anchylosis for j'ears. Persons who have suffered from the above forms of chronic articular inflammation rarely attain old age. You will find few persons above forty or fifty years old with anchylosis from tumor albus. This seems another proof that these diseases are associated with some constitutional taint, difficult as it is in all cases to prove this, and to demonstrate it to those who are inclined to explain all diatheses and dyscrasise as vague theories of old ]3hysicians. 31. —P. 524. Tedious and painful as they are to the patient, they are not as- sociated with severe constitutional affections, such as tuberculous and lardaceous diseases ; hence they are rarely fatal, and are less dis- eases of youth than of mature age. 32. —P. 577. Careful examinations of veins by Soboroff have shown that their walls are in very different conditions ; he examined especially the saphenous vein and its branches ; he found that normally in differ- ent persons its layers varied essentially, and that even adjacent parts of the same vein were not exactly alike. This is very interest- ing, for it explains why the occurrence of varices is so unequally in- duced by the same cause, and is due to purely individual circum- stances. Among varicose veins we may distinguish those with thiu and those with thick walls. The enlargement of the muscular fila- ments and the lack of change in the endothelium are common to all. The variation in the diameter of the walls of the veins is chiefly due to thickening of the adventitia, whose vessels also increase, and of the cement which unites the muscular filaments; slightly also to thickening of the intima ; but sclerosis of the latter, as in arterial sclerosis, is very rare. Hence, under increased pressure the anatomi- cal conditions in the walls of veins arc the same as in the urinary