549 ANCHYLOSES. the cartilage remains intact; the secretion of synovia ceases, in the course of years the cartilage may degenerate into connective tis- sue (as in old, immovable luxations), or may even ossif}’^, and the anchylosis will thus become more immovable. Similar circumstances exist in almost all the joints; you will find the best representations Fig. lOT. Fig. lOS. K SECTION OP TEB SHOULDER-JOINT, SEEN FROM THE FRONT. Fig. 95, the capsule folded above, at a. Fig. 96, the capsule folded below, at a. of these in Senle's anatomy. R. Volkmann had previously described this variety of anchylosis, which occurs especially often in young persons after subacute coxitis without suppuration, but with great tension of the muscles, as “ cartilaginous anchylosis.” The name is well chosen, in so far as in them the cartilage long remains intact. 4. A further mechanical obstruction may lie in the bony deposits which form in the joint on the articular surfaces of the bones impli- cated ; for instance, if the fossa sigmoidea, anterior or posterior of the lower end of the humerus, fill up with newly-formed bone, neither the processus coronoideus nor anconeus of the ulna can enter it, and in the former case the arm cannot bli^ fully flexed, in the latter it cannot be fully extended. This hinderancSKa. jgiost common in arthritis de- fonnans; it is rare in fungous inflammations of'the joint (Fig. 101). 5. Lastly, as a result of caries of the ends of tlie bones, there may be such loss of substance that the ejiiphyses will stand obliquely to each other and cannot be brought into position again, because their surfaces arc too much changed, and do not fit on each other in the abnormal position (pathological luxation), or cannot be moved at all. Examine Fig. 105 again; as a sequence of the destruction of the trochlea humeri, the ultia is so drawn toward the humerus that, even if some motion were possible, complete flexion could not take place, because the processus coronoideus strikes on the humerus anteriorly, as the fossa sigmoidea is absent. In caries of the knee also the tibia