302 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE BONES, FEBIOSTEUM, ETC. dition : The vessels of the medulla and periosteum are greatly dilated and distended with blood; perhaps there may be stasis of Idood at diflbrent points. The medulla, instead of its usual bright-yellow color, is dark bli#, and permeated with extravasations; the perios- teum is greatly infiltrated, and on microscopical examination of it you find numbers of young cells, as you also do in the medulla; that is, there is plastic infiltration. In this stage, a complete return to the normal state is possible, and, if proper treatment is begun early, this is not so rare, particularly in the more subacute cases. The fever falls, the swelling' decreases,and the pain ceases; a fortnight after the commencement of the disease the j^atient may be recovered. Even when the process is somewhat further advanced, it may stop; then a part of the new formation on the surface of the bone ossifies, and thus, for a time at least, there is thickening of the atfected bone, which may again be absorbed in the course of months. In most cases the course of periostitis is not so favorable, but the process goes on, and terminates in suppuration, the symptoms being as follows : The skin of the swollen, tense, and painful limb is at first reddish, then brownish red; the oedema extends further and further; the neighboring joints become painful,- and swell; the fever remains at the same point; the chills are not infrequently repeated. The patient is much exhausted, as he eats little, and at night is kept awake by the pain. Toward the twelfth or fourteenth day of the dis- ease, rarely earlier, but often later, we may clearly distinguish fluctu- ation, and may then greatlj" alleviate tlie sufferings of the patient by letting out the jdus through one or more ojienings, if the skin over the abscess is sufficiently thinned; for the opening of deep, stiff-walled abscesses Avhich do not collapse may prove dangerous from deconqjo- sition of blood and pus in the insufficiently-encapsulated abscess. The spontaneous perforation, especially the suppuration of the fascias, occasionally takes a good wdiile, and, moreover, the openings thus formed are usually too small; they must subsequently be enlarged If you introduce the finger through one of these artificial openings, you come directly on the bone, and in many cases find it denuded of periosteum. The extent to which this denudation occurs depends on the e.xtent of the periostitis. It may extend the wliole length of the diajfliysis, and in these worst cases tlie symjitoms are the most severe. Probably, however, only a half or a tliird of the periosteum is dis- eased, nor is the entire circumference of the bone necessarily affected, but perliajis only the anterior, lateral, or posterior portion is so. llie periostitis is jiarticularly apt to stop at the points of origin or inser- tion of strong muscles. In tliose cases of slight extent all the symiJ- toms -will be milder.