C16 TUMORS. Now, when passing to the consideration of the different fonns of tumors, we shrink from the mass of material before us. We require a leading principle to enable us to arrange the various forms of tumors which differ so much anatomically and clinically, and to consider them in their relations to each other and to the organism at large. The principles on which tumors have been classed have for ages been just as different as those on which diseases generally have been and are still divided. None of the classifications of disease proposed so far have held their place long. Medicine is now taught in various groups of smaller systems, and the principles for forming such groups are chosen for various reasons. Before pathological anatomy was de- veloped, some prominent symptom was taken; hence we still have in medicine the terms icterus, apoplexy, etc., to denote certain diseases; in the same W’ay, as you know, we have tumors designated “ polypus, scirrhus, lupus, fungus, carcinoma,” etc. As soon as the symptoms icterus and apoplexy w’ere analyzed and found to depend on very different anatomical causes, these terms were banished and replaced by others denoting the anatomical condition. The pathologico-ana- tomical airangement of disease, as proposed by Itokitansky, for in- stance, is undoubtedly scientific, as is the system of general pathology of Virchow; still, neither of them is accepted without reserve by clinical teachers. It was desired to divide diseases according to their peculiar nature and cause ; but Schonbevi’s attempt to found a system with this idea failed, for our knowledge of the causes and nature of disease is not sufficient fully to carry out the plan. A\ hat, then, is to be done ? Practical medicine and surgery start partly from the ana- tomical system, consider this as generally known, and use it for sub- dividing moi’e extended descriptions of disease founded on an etiolo- gical, prognostic, symptomatological, or physiological basis. It would certainly not be unscientific even now to write a monograph on icterus or apoplexy—then the anatomical conditions would come in the second rank; pathological anatomy is used as any other aid to science, as chem- istry, physics, etc.; we always try to bear in mind that the object in fathoming the whole process of disease lies not in simply fathoming the morphological conditions; it is desmable to understand not only the anatomical change, but also the mode and causes of the physiologi- cal disturbances. It Avould be decidedly unscientific in typhus, even if a number of j)alpable changes were found, to admit nothing except the peculiar intestinal inflammation ; we may regard this as something of the past. Could we group all diseases from an etiological point of view, it Avould be an immense advance; then pathological physiology would take the place of j^athological moqDhology, while with our present knowledge we are quite proud if we accurately recognize the