TUMORS. rm new nerve-filaments formed in the nerve-cicatrix ; in all these changes the development of new blood-vessels played an important part; still, as above said, the typical termination of the inflammation, whether it was acute or chronic, superficial or deep, was in the cicatrix. Although connective tissue, nerve, and bone tumors, may ex- ceptionally form from connective tissue, nerve, and bone cicatrices, still these constitute a very small part of the various tissue-formations found in tumors; forms the most varied and complicated, such as newly-formed glands, teeth, hair, etc., are occasionally to be found in the tumors; indeed, tissues are there seen which, as then arranged, nev’er under other circumstances occur in the body or even during foetal life. To enable you to form a correct idea of the anatomical characteristics of tumors, I will recall to your memory a few general laws from general pathology about the formation of new growths; in the large works on this subject by Virchow and 0. W^er you may find very excellent and exhaustive representations of these conditions. When a part of the body is abnormally enlarged, Ave make a dis- tinction as to whether the enlargement is caused by an abnormal in- crease of volume of the different elements {simple hypertrophy) or by a formation of new elements, which are deposited between the old ones. This new formation may be analogous to the matrix, or mother- tissue {homoeoplastic), or not {Jieteroplastic^. The homoeoplastic neAv formation proceeds either from simple division of the existing ele- ments (thus a cartilage-cell by segmentation forms two, then four cartilage-cells) ; then it is called hyperp>lastic (numerical hypertrophy); or at first ajDparently indifferent, small, round cells form from the ex- isting cellular elements, and from these a tissue analogous to the mat- rix is developed—homoeoplastic new formation in the strict sense. Heteroplastic new formations always begin with the development of primary cell-tissue, so-called indifferent formative cells (granulation stage of tumors, Virchow), and from these develops the tissue heterolo- gous to the matrix (as cartilage in the testicle, epidermis in the brain, etc.). This nomenclature, proposed by Virchoio, seemed perfectly suit- able and natural in a purely anatomical point of view ; and I can still accept it if the term of heteroplasia be limited, as will be hereafter stated, and if we dismiss the idea that homoeoplastic is synonymous with benignant and heteroplastic with malignant. We must here add that there is every probability that xoandering cells escaping from the vessels very materially aid in the formation of tumors, at least to the formation of tumors of the connective-tissue series. But, apart from this, we should err if we supposed that in the aboA'e nomenclature all cases of new formation, even considered in a purely anatomical point