275 TREATMENT OF FROST-BITE. occasionally some pain in tlie limbs, especially if they -va ere warmed too rapidly; in these cases it is well to envelop the painful parts in cloths dipped in cold water. The patient may remain for hours or davs in a benumbed, senseless condition, which disappears gradually Of late, experiments have been made in resuscitating stiffened ani- mals, which appear to show that animals are more certainly saved from death by rapid than by slow warming. I should not readily de- cide, from these experiments on animals, to depart from the rules already empirically employed for treatment of persons frozen stiff, and which appear to be correct for local frost-bites, but the question is worth further experiment. Such cases of general freezing rarely escape without loss of some limbs, or parts of them, and, in regard to the treatment of these frozen parts, I can give you little advice. The vesicles are punctured and evacuated; the feet or bands may be wrapped in cold, wet cloths; then we must wait to see whether and how extensively gangrene will occur. If the bluish-red color passes into a dark cherry-red, the chances of restoration to life are slight. Gangrene will occur in the great majority of such cases. By testing the sensibility with a needle, and noting the escape of blood from these fine openings, we test how far the bmb has ceased to live ; tut this only becomes certain when the line of demarkation forms; that » is, when the dead is sharply bounded from the living, and ixiflamma- tory redness develops on the border of the gangrenous parts. But the general condition may become dangerous before the line of de- markation is fully formed; hence amputation must not be delayed too long if the inflamraation after freezing assumes a phlegmonous charactei-. The detachment of single toes or fingers we may leave to itself; but where there is gangrene of a large part of a limb, amputation is decidedly preferable.® I will here return to chilblains (perniones), not because they may become particularly dangerous, but because they are an exceedingly annoying disease, and are in some cases very difficult to cure, and for which, as good family doctors, you must have a series of remedies. Chilblains are caused by paralysis of the capillaries, with serous exu- dation in the tissue of the cutis; they are, as most of you know, bluish-red swellings on the hands and feet, which prove excessively annoying from their severe burning and itching, and from the occa- sional formation of ulcers. They result from repeated slight freezing of the same -spot, and do not occur with equal frequency in all per- .sons; they are less annoying in very cold weather tlian during the change from cold to warm. At night, on going to bed, when the hands and feet become warm, the itching occasionally becomes so troublesome that the patient has to scratch them for hours. In gen- eial, females are more disposed than males, and voung persons more