SIMPLE INoiSED WOUNDS OF TUE SOFT PARTS. 18 wounds, altliougli lliey may have been due to a blow from a blunt l>ody, or from striking the head against a stone, beam, etc.; similar smootli wounds Of the skin also occur on the hand, especially on the volar sur- face. Sharp angles of bone may so divide the skin from witliin that it will look as if cut through, as, for instance, when one falls on the crest of the tibia, and it divides the skin from within outward. As may be readily understood, sharp splinters of bone perforating the skin may also make wounds with smooth surfaces. Lastly, the open- ing of exit of a birllet-wound, i. e., of the canal which represents the passage of a bullet, may sometimes be a sharp slit. The knowledge of these points is important, for a judge may ask you if a wound has been caused by this or that instrument, in this or that manner, points which may greatly atfect the bearings in a crimi- nal suit. Hitherto we have only considered wounds made Avith. a blow or stroke. But, by repeated cuts on a wound, the edges may acquire a hacked appearance, and thus the requirements for recoA'ery may be very much changed. For the present, we leave such wounds out of consideration; their mode of recovery and treatment is just the same as that in contused wounds, unless they can be artificially converted into simple incised wounds by paring off the jagged edges. The various dii'ections in which the cutting instrument enters the body generally makes little difference, unless the direction be so oblique tliat some of the soft parts are detached in the form of a more or less thick flap. Tn thesej^ap-wounds, the Avidth of the bridge, uniting the half-separated portion Avith the body, is important, because on this depends the question as to Avhether circulation of blood can continue in this flap, or if it has ceased, and the detached portion is to be re- garded as dead. Flap-Avounds are chiefly due to cuts, but may also arise from tearing; they are very frequent in the head, Avhere pari of the scalp is torn off by a hard bloAV. In other cases a portion of the soft parts may be entirely cut out; then Ave have a wound with loss oj^ substance. By penetrating wounds Ave mean those by Avhich one of the tliree great cavities of the body or a joint is opened; they are most fre- quently due to stabs or gun-shot injuries, and may be complicated by Avounds of the viscera or bones. By the general terms longitudinai and diagonal Avounds we of course mean those corresponding to the long or diagonal axes of the trunk, head, or extremities. Diagonal or longi- tudinal wounds of the muscles, tendons, vessels, or nerves, are of course those diAuding these parts longitudinally or diagonally. Ihe symjv toms in the person Avounded, induced more or less directly by the wound, are, first, jpai/iy then, bleeding and gaping ol the wound.