569 TENOTOMY. right hand should be placed over the point of the knife to feel it and prevent passing it throug’h the skin 5 we then press on the knife and draw it from within outward through the tendon ; being careful not to let it cut through the skin when the jerk occurs that accompanies the completion of the division. This method seems more difficult than it is, but, like any operation, it requires practice on the cadaver. When the tenotomy is completed, there is usually but little bleeding from the puncture, though sometimes there may be considerable, as in some persons a tolerably large branch of the posterior tibial artery runs alongside of the tendon, and is divided with it. If the bleeding be slight, a piece of ichthyocolla-plaster may be placed over the puncture, and rendered firmer by collodium; if the hmmorrhage be more jjrofuse, the puncture should be covered with a small compress, and the foot bandaged as high as the calf; the bleeding then ceases. Tliis dressing should be replaced by plaster after twenty-four hours. The healing is almost always by first intention; the puncture is closed in three or four days. But there may be suppuration; then the wounded part grows red, swollen, sensitive; blood mixed with pus flows from the wound, an abscess often forms on the opposite side; this must be opened, and, although this suppuration is not dangerous to life, it may continue two or three weeks, and much impair the results of the operation, for it is a long time before the resulting thick cicatrix is suited for extension. Immediately after the tenotomy, at the point of division you may feel a hollow, as the muscle contracts after division of the tendon; this hollow disappears in the course of twenty-four hours, and for a few days it is even replaced by a swell- ing ; the latter gradually subsides, and in fourteen days at most, after a normaUy-healed tenotomy, the tendon appears perfectly restored. The course of this healing has been carefully studied experimentally; formerly it was supposed there was something very peculiar about it; I have often made these experiments on animals, and find that healing takes place as it usually does, and most resembles that process in nerves and bones. When the tendon is divided, and the muscle con- tracts, there would be an empty space at the point of division if the external atmospheric pressure did not at once press the surrounding cel- lular tissue into the space between the ends of the tendon; the space is thus filled up; as in any wound, this tissue is infiltrated with plas- tic matter and serum, and becomes very vascular; the cellular tissue around the ends of the tendon is metamoq^hosed in the same way, and the latter are surrounded and united by the inflammatory new formation developed from the adjacent cellular tissue, just as the fragments of bone are by the external callus (which, however, here presses