SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 20 jaw removed for a malignant tumor, and, during this difficult and painful operation, she did not once cry out, although several branches of the trifacial nerve were divided. Women generally stand suffer- ing better and more patiently than men. But the necessary exercise of psychical strength not unfrequently causes subsequent fainting, or excessive physical and psychical relaxation, of longer or shorter du- ration. You will certainly meet persons who, without any exercise of will, show so little pain from severe injury that we can only be- lieve that they really feel pain less acutely than others; I have ob- served this most in flabby sailors, in whom all the sequelae of the injury are also generally very insignificant. The quicker the wound is made, and the sharper the knife, the less the pain ; hence, in large and small operations, it has aiwa3’s seemed, and very correctly too, for the advantage of the patient, that the incisions should be made with certainty and rapidit}’-, par- ticularly in dividing the skin. The feeling in the wound, immediately after its reception, is a peculiar burning. It can scarcely be termed any thing but the feel- ing of being wounded ; there are a number of provincialisms for it— in Northern Germany, for instance, they say “ the wound smarts.” Only when a nerve is compressed by something in the wound, twisted or irritated in some way, there are severe neuralgic pams immedi- ately after the injury; if these do not soon cease sj^ontaneously, or after examination of the wound and removal of the local cause, if j30ssible, they should be arrested by the exhibition of some internal remedy ; otherwise, they will induce and keep up a state of excite- ment in the patient that may increase to maniacal delirium. To avoid the pain in operations, we now always use anesthet- ics ; this subject will be treated of in the course on operations. Recently ether has come more into use on account of the number of deaths from chloroform. I now use a composition of 3 parts chloro- form, 1 sulphuric ether, and 1 absolute alcohol, which seems less dangerous than chloroform alone. In England, for some years, Spencer Wells, among others, has used and recommended bichloride of methyline, claiming that it acts as quickly as, and is less dan- gerous than, chloroform. TjOOqX ancesthetics, which have for their object temporary blunting of the pain in the part to be operated on, by application of a mixture of ice and saltpetre, or salt, have been again abandoned, or nither they have never been generally received. Recently these attempts have again acquired a general interest, as it seemed that a suitable method of local aniesthesia had at last been found. Aii English physician, Jiichai'dson, constructed a. small apparatus, by which a stream of pure ether [or, better, rhigo-