165 INFLAMMATION OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. slowly from smaller or larger openings, which have formed sponta- neously, and this pus which has remained for a time in the depth is not infrequently thin and bad smelling. Should the process con- tinue long, the patient becomes more miserable and weak; he has high and continued fever. A wound, which perhaps at first appeared insignificant, perhaps about the hand, has extended horribly, and in- duced severe general disturbance. The sheaths of the tendons about the hands and feet are particularly favorable for the extension of deep suppurations, which readily attack the joints, while, on the other hand, articular inflammations of the e.xtremities readily attack the sheaths of the tendons. These states may take a very dangerous turn, and you should be constantly on your guard. From the constant pu- rulent infection, as well as from the daily loss of pus, even the strong- est man maj’’ emaciate in a few weeks, and die with symptoms of febrile marasmus. We now know two forms of inflammation which may attack con- tused wounds: 1. Rapid, progressive, septic inflammation, which begins about the wound during the first three or four days (rarely in less than twenty-four hours, and just as rarely after the fourth day), and which is caused b}^ local infection from parts that decompose in the wound. 2. Progressive purulent inflammation, which is particu- larly apt to occur in wounds of the hands or feet during the cleansing of the wound from necrosed shreds of tissue, without the pus becom- ing ichorous, although butyric acid often formed in it. But, even when the wound has entirely cleaned off and granu- lated, when the inflammation is bounded, and the wound begins to cicatrize, new inflammation, with severe results, may begin. These secondary progressive inflammations of suppurating wounds, occur- ring even several weeks after the injury, and sometimes coming as unexpectedly as lightning from a clear skyj are of great importance, and are sometimes very dangerous. They are almost always of sup- purative nature, and may be fatal from intense, phlogistic, constitu- tional infection, just as often as the primary progressive suppurations. In some cases, also, they prove dangerous from their location, as in wounds of the head. These cases are so striking and tragical that we must giv'e them special consideration. Suppose you have brought a case of severe crushing of the leg, with fracture, successfully through the first dangers. The patient has no fever; the wound granulates beautifully, and has even begun to cicatrize. Suddenly, in the fourth week, the wound begins to swell; the granulations are croupous or spongy, the pus thin; the whole limb swells. The pa- tient again has high fever, perhaps repeated chills. The symptoms may pass off, and every thing go on in the old track; but it often