244 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. certain directions, and to a very limited extent. Manual examination must finally settle the question in most cases ; it must show that the articular cavity is empty, and that the head of the bone is at some other point, at one side, above or below. If the soft parts be consid- erably swollen, this examination may bo quite difficult, and the aid of ancesthesia is often necessary for a correct diagnosis, especially if the exhibitions of pain and the motions of the patient interfere. On moving the extremity, which we find springy or slightly movable, there is occasionally a feeling of friction, an indistinct, soft crepitation. This may result partly from rubbing of the head of the bone on torn capsular ligaments and tendons, partly from the compression of firm blood-coagula. Hence, in such varieties of crepitation, we should not at once conclude on a fracture, but be urged to more careful examina- tion. Fractures of certain parts of the articular ends, with disloca- tion, are most readily mistaken for luxations. And formerly the mode of expression on this point was not exact, for displacements about the joint, combined with fractures, and caused entirely by them, were also termed luxations. At present we distinguish these fractures within the joint, with dislocations, more sharply from luxations proper. Should you be in doubt as to whether the case is one of dislocated articular fracture or of luxation, you may easily decide the question by an attempt at reduction. If such a dislocation is readily reduced by moderate traction, but at once returns when you leave off the traction, it is a case of fracture; for a certain art is necessary to the reduction of a dislocation, and, when once reduced, it does not readily recur, although there are exceptions to this rule. A contusion and sprain of the joint may also be mistaken for lux- ation, but this error may be avoided by careful examination. Old traumatic luxations may sometimes be mistaken for dislocations caused by contraction. Lastly, in paralyzed limbs, where there is at the same time relaxation of the articular capsule, the joint may be so very movable that in certain positions it will look as if dislocated. In these cases, also, the history of the case and careful local examination will lead us to a correct conclusion. Regarding the state of the injured parts immediately after the in- jury, in cases where there has been a chance to examine them, it has been found that the cajjsule of the joint and the synovial membrane are torn. The capsular opening is of variable size ; occasionally it is a slit like a button-hole, sometimes it is triangular, Avith more or less ragged edges; ruptures of muscles and tendons immediately around the joint have also been observed. The contusion of the parts varies greatly, as does also the effusion of blood. The head of the bone does