132 SOME PECULIARITIES OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. Bomethin^ could be said against all these hypotheses. After a few da}^s the reddened skin became very thin, the abscess pointed about the height of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, a few fingers’ breadths above Poupart’s ligament, and I made an incision through the skin; there was evacuated a gassy, brownish, sanious pus, with a strong fecal odor. As I examined the abscess-cavity with my finger, I felt a hard, rod-like, firm body in the depth of the abscess, and projecting slightly into it. I began to extract it, and pulled and pulled till I brought out a knitting-needle almost a foot long, which was somewhat rusty and pointed down toward the pelvis. The ab- scess-cavity was clothed with flabby granulations. When I tried to examine the opening that the needle must have left behind, I could no longer find it; it had closed again, and was covered by the granu- lations. The abscess took a long time to heal; it at last did so without further accident, so that in four weeks the patient was dis- missed. As I showed the unfortunate cretin the extracted needle, she laughed in her idiotic way ; that was all we could make out of her ; perhaps this may have indicated some slight recollection of the needle. It is most probable that the patient had inserted the needle into the vagina or rectum—procedures in which even women not idiotic find some incredible pleasure, as you may see in DieffenhacKs operative surgery in the chapter on extraction of foreign bodies. It is not im- possible that in this case the needle passed by the side of the vaginal portion of the uterus through the cascum, for, from the gas-containing pus of the abscess, we may decide that there was at least a temporary communication with the intestine. It is true this cannot be regarded as absolutely certain, for pus in the vicinity of the intestines by the development of stinking gases may putrefy, even when no communi- cation with the interior of the intestines exists or has existed. The extraction of recently-entered needles may be very difficult, especially as the patients are not unfrequently very undecided in their information about the location of the body, and occasionally from shame will not acknowledge how the needles (in the bladder, for in- stance) obtained entrance. We should, with the left hand, fix the spot where we shall most probably find the foreign body, carefully endeavoring to press the skin together in folds; w’e must at the same time be careful that the needle does not again change its position while we are making the incision. Sometimes we feel the body more or less distinctly, and can cause pain by jiressing on it; these attempts must decide the point of our incision. After dividing the skin, we attempt to seize the needle with a pair of good dissecting forceps; very tense bands of fascia may readily deceive us, especially about the fingers, for with forceps our sense of feeling is always uncertain.