HEALING BY FIRST INTENTION. 69 injury. Here, under some circumstances, it would be a decided fault to unite the wound, although of late the views on this particular point differ somewhat from those of former days. 4. Lastly, from a contusion, whose effect on the flaps of the wound we may fail to observe, there may have been an extensive disturbance of circulation and destruction of minute tissue, which has induced the partial death of certain parts or of the whole sm-face of the wound. Then, as there is no cell-formation in the edges of the wound, but only where the tissue is still living, we have small tags of the destroyed tissue lying as foreign bodies between the edges of the wound; these must jDrevent healing by first intention. If this mortification attack only minute particles, these may possibly quickly undergo molecular disintegration and absorption ; this may occur not unfrequently. We shall speak more extensively of this mortification of the tissue, and of its detachment from the healthy parts, when treating of contusions. Experience, arising from many observations in judgingof wounded surfaces, will hereafter enable you in most cases to say whether heal ing by first intention may be expected or not, and you will also learn when it may be useful, even in doubtful cases, to try to aid this union by applying dressings. You will occasionally hear of wonderful cases where parts of the body, completely separated, have again become united. This ajDpears to be actually the case. I have never had the opportunity of making any observations on such cases; still, even in late days, very trust- worthy men have asserted that they have seen small portions of skin again unite after being removed from the fingers by a blow or cut, then carefully replaced and fastened on with adhesive plaster. For- merly I contended against the possibility of this healing, but must now admit it, also on theoretical grounds, after it has become imaginable tliat, through the movements of the cells, the detached portions, if not too great, may soon be restored to life again by the entrance of wan- dering cells. That we may successfully transplant a twig, cut from one tree, into another one, is well known ; but, as the circulation in plants is not by pumping, but the sap runs simply by cellular force, the anal- ogy is not very close ; it was more remarkable, it is true, that a cock’s spurs could be transplanted to his comb, but between birds and men the differences in the formative process are also very great, and any immediate transfer of observations is inadmissible in practice. When treating of the cicatrization of wounds with loss of sub- stance, we shall investigate the discovery of lievenlm that we may cause epidermis to grow on granulating surfaces.*