174 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. the temperature of the water to the feelings of the patient. At first the patients generally prefer a lower temperature (54°-G8^ F.), later a rather higher one (88°-95° F.) ; but there are also patients who, even during the first day, complain of chills if the temperature of the water falls below 68° F. Hence we see that it is rather indifferent whether we employ warm or cold water baths. In some persons, on the third or fourth day, there arises a state which renders immersion unbearable, that is, swelling of the epidermis of the hands or feet, and the accompanying tense, burning sensations, which somewhat re- semble the action of a blister. The thicker the epidermis, the more disagreeable this accident. It may be avoided by rubbing the injured extremity with oil, before placing it in the water, and adding a hand- ful of salt to the water; this does no harm to the wound. An im- portant question is, Hoav long shall continued immersion be employed ? Rules for this can only be given after considerable experience. I have found from eight to twelve days enough. After this we may leave the limb out of the water at night, enveloping it in a moist cloth cov- ered with oiled silk ; a few days later we may employ this dressing during the day also, and use the Avater-bath only morning and even- ing, or mornings alone, leaving the limb in it half an hour or an hour to bathe and cleanse it. Finally, we leave off the water entirely, and treat the granulating, cicatrizing wound after the simple rules already given. The changes in wounds under this treatment ai’e somewhat different from those previously described. In the first place, all goes on much slower; sometimes, especially in the treatment with the cold-water bath, the contused wound looks as fi-esh for four or five days as when first received. The same thing is noticed for some time under the treatment with bladders of ice. This is not so astonishing as it at first seems, for, as is well known, decomposition of organic substances goes on more slowly in water than in the air. Subse- quently the pus usually remains on the wound as a flocculent, half- coagulated layer, and must be washed or syringed off to obtain a view of the subjacent granulations, which are infiltrated with water, and often quite pale. This observation is ^■ery important, and protects us from illusions in regard to the efficacy of the water-bath in deep su|i- purations; we might suppose that the pus flowed from the wound directly into tlie water and Avas there diffused, so that it would simply be necessary to place the suppurating part in water to have it always clean. The water-bath does not favor the escape of pits ; it rather jirevents it. Pus on the granulations, or in cavities, coagulates at once on contact with water, and usually remains on the Avound; Avasli- iiig or .syringing is necessary for its removal. S'.velliug of the granu- lations entirely prevents the escape of pus from deep jiarts. Hence