533 HOUSEMAID’S KNEE. Only the acute cases come under the surgeon’s notice. They should be treated as follows: First of all, the patient should be kept quiet; then paint the swelling freely with tincture of iodine. Under this treatment the dropsy generally subsides rapidly; any remaining fluid you may attempt to remove by conqDression with adhesive plas- ter or bandages; or you may from the first employ compression with wet bandages, or envelojD the knee in wet compresses; mercurial salve and mercurial plaster are also of good service. Chronic dropsy of the bursa praspatellaris usually causes so little inconvenience that it is generally of long standing before it comes to the surgeon’s notice. Most persons scarcely have their movements impaired by the disease; others say that they tire sooner than for- merly in the affected limb. The affection is usually limited to one side, but may attack both. It is generally very difficult to cure chronic dropsy of the bursa preepateUaris by the remedies above mentioned. The trouble may be removed by operation. Tapping is no more a radical cure here than in other dropsies, as new fluid collects ; for tap- ping to prove efficacious it should be followed by injection of tincture of iodine. This is free from danger, if the patient subsequently keeps quiet; the result is generally a radical cure. Another treatment is splitting up the sac, which is followed by its suppuration. If the sac be very thick, it is justifiable to extirpate it entirely, which, however, should be done very carefully to avoid injuring the adjacent capsule of the joint. li. Volhmann has recommended a plan of treatment which I have often employed with good results, i. e., forced compres- sion ; a well-padded, hollow sphnt of tin or wood is applied to the back of the knee, and the knee is drawn as firmly as possible against it by means of flannel bandages; this compression, which usually causes oedema of the foot, and sometimes severe pain, should be con- tinued several days. Reabsor2otion results, in two or three days, in small hygromata; in six or eight days, in large old ones. I have seen very good results from this plan, not only in hygroma prmpatellare, hut also in dropsy of the knee; in dropsy of the sheaths of the ten- dons it rarely does any good.