93 PYROGENOUS MATERIALS. chemical substances in them have been independently tested in re- o-ard to their fever-exciting qualities: we may induce fever by inject- ing leucin, sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphides of ammonium and car- bcni, and other chemical substances resulting from the decomposition of tissue, or even by injecting water ; decomposing vegetable matter also has a fever-exciting effect. Hence there are no specific fever- exciting substances, but the number of pyrogenous materials is in- numerable. I may here mention that the bad-smelling substances developed by the decomposition of the tissues are probably the least dangerous. I intentionally distinguish the products of decomposition in acute inflammations, which are usually odorless at first (whose activity as poisons we first learned by experiment), from those of decomposing dead bodies, which generally smell bad at once, although their pyro- genous action is similar. If a wounded patient has fever, it is for me a proof that there is decomposition going on in his wound, and that the products have passed into the blood, whether the wound smells or not. After the pvrogsnous effect of the products of inflatnmation and decomposition had been absolutely confirmed, it remained to be proved that this material could be taken from the tissue into the blood, and to be shown how this took place. For this purpose it was injected into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, where it spread around in the meshes of the tissue ; the effect, as to fever, was the same as when the injection was made directly into the blood; hence the pyrogenous material is absorbed from the cellular tissue. Here there is another observation to be made : after a time, at the point where decomposing fluid or fresh pus has been injected, there is severe and not unfrequently rapidly progressive inflammation. For instance, I injected half an ounce of decomposing fluid into the thigh of a horse ; in twenty-four hours the whole leg was swollen, hot, and painful, and the animal very feverish. T did the same thing with the same result, with fresh (not decomposing) abscess pus, in a dog. This action of pus and putrefy- ing matter in exciting local inflammation I call All pyrogenous substances are not at the same time phlogogenous; some are more so than others, and, especiall}’- in the putrefying fluids, it makes a great deal of difference whether the poisonous power, which we do not know accurately, is present in greater or less quantities. It is not certainly determined whether the pyrogenous materials enter the blood through the lymph or blood-vessels; they may vary in this respect. Some points are in favor of the reabsorption taking place chiefly through the lymphatics.“