683 ATHEROMA OF THE ARTERIES. and a small aneurism is formed, whose rupture causes severe haem- orrhage. Other ulcerations also may (though this rarely happens) find their way to an artery and destroy its walls, so as to induce bursting of the artery, and fatal haemorrhage if the artery be a large one. I have seen several such cases: an old man had an abscess deep in the neck which opened into the pharynx; this was diagnosed from the gradual formation of a painful swelling in the neck and the free ex- pectoration of badly-smelling pus; the patient had only been in the hospital a few hours when he threw up a large amount of blood, was quickly asphyxiated, and died; autopsy showed that, as a result of cir- cumscribed suppuration of the superior thyroid artery, it had thrown out a quantity of blood w^hich had passed directly into the larynx and caused suffocation. In another case in a young man who had caries of the right temporal bone, there were repeated limmorrhages from the right ear; I diagnosed an abscess on the under side of the temporal bone wdth suppuration of the internal carotid artery. The bleeding could not be checked by tampons to the ear; I ligated the right com- mon carotid. The bleeding ceased for ten days, then began again; af- ter repeated tamponading and digital compression of the left carotid without permanent result, I also ligated the left common carotid; but in two days the patient died of profuse hasmorrhage from the right ear, nose, and mouth; the abscess, which was filled with blood, and could now be regarded as an aneurysma spurium, had also opened into the pharynx. The post mortem fully confirmed the diagnosis. We now come to chronic diseases of the arteries and their results, to true aneurisms. In advanced age it is very common for the arteries to become exceedingly thick and hard and occasionally even looped, especially those of the diameter of the radial or smaller. If we ex- amine these arteries more accurately, w'^e find the tunica intima thickened, of cartilaginous firmness, it is more rigid than usual, and gapes; in places it is even as hard as chalk, or even quite calcified or ossified. The chalky parts are not diffusely sjDread through the w-alls of the artery, but form circles corresponding to the transverse muscles of the tunica media; it is the muscles of the vessels that ossify. In such persons, on the inner surface of the aorta and its first large branches, we find whitish-yellow spots, strim or plates of chalky firm- ness, or rough as if gnawed, with their edges holloAved out. If we cut into these spots, we find the whole intima of cartilaginous hardness, whitish yellow, and completely calcareous or hard as bone, or else friable, granular, or pulpy. Where this disease has attained a high grade, the arteries become bulged out. This is atheroma of the ar- tery as it appears in the cadaver. We often find the recent and old stage near together or in different arteries. If w'c examine these spots