168 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. view that the injurious substances are gaseous; by good vent)laiion the air of the hospital may be kept pure, but this is no protection against the affection in question ; moreover, we cannot excite inflam- mations by any of tne gases developing from pus or putrefying sub- stances, unless, perhaps, by sulphuretted hydrogen, when dissolved in water and injected into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Putrid fluids and pus from other patients would not intentionally be brouglit in contact with wounds; we have previously shown that the vicinity of the wound may, under some circumstances, be infected by pus from the wound, and excited to new inflammation. Hence there is little left but the supposition that the injui-iously-acting substances ai-e of a molecular, dust-like nature; they may float about in the air of the hospital, but they may also adhere to the bandages, charpie, com- presses, etc., with which we dress the wounds, or to the insti-uments, forceps, probes, sponges, etc., with which we touch the wound. May they not be fungi, or other organic germs, w'hose nature we do not at present know, like those we know to excite fermentation ? lliis is possible, for in every cubic foot the air holds quantities of such germs, and in the hospital such organic gei’ms of animal or vegetable nature might develop in the secretions from wounds, in the sputum or excrement, and the more so in proportion as the readily-decomposing secretions and excretions are collected in hospitals, or in badly- built Avater-closets and sewers. On this point we can only haz- ard conjectures, while we may make experiments with dry putrid sub- stances and dry pus, by powdering them, and then introducing them into the healthy tissue of animals. Such expei’iments have been made by 0. Weher and myself, and they have shown that both aninnd and vegetable putrid, dry substances, as well as diy jdus, induce inflam- mation ; if we pulverize these substances, stir them up quickly Avith Avatei’, then inject them into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of ani- mals, they Avill excite progressive inflammation, just as putrid fluids and fresh pus do. Now, it must at once be acknoAvledged tlnit in a hospital such injurious dust-like bodies niay readily cling to di’essings and bedclothes ; possibly, also, to instruments. In short, it is possible that the direct injurious influence of hospital air on :i wound may be due to fine dust-like particles of putrid or punilent matter coming in contact with it from the dressings or instruments. Thei’e can be no doubt that such injuiaous materials may enter the body in other ways besides through wounds, as thi’ough the lungs ; indeed, Ave explai)i the occurrence of all so-called infectious diseases b}^ the entrance in the or- ganism of substances Avhich have a sort of fei'inenting influence on the blood; but, wdiether the Jnorbid materials Avhich excite the infectious diseases chiefly occun ing in the Avounded be diilerent from those arising