j 498 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. ease, under proper treatment it often subsides quickly; that is, the symptoms of distortion of the bone cease, or rather do not increase; > the children, who had ceased to walk, again desire to do so. As the normal growth of the bone goes on, the distortions become less per- ceptible, and often disappear entirely; this may be readily under- stood from the nature of tlie growth of the bone. Before the bones again acquire their normal consistence, at the end of the rachitic process, there is usually an abnormally rich deposit of bone, so that in certain stages the rachitic bones are abnormally hard and firm ; that is, in a sclerosed state. Rarely, rachitis lasts till the skeleton has attained its growth, and these cases furnish the excessive distor- tions and dislocations that are usually presented as types of this dis- ease. In every pathological anatomical collection you find examples of such rachitic skeletons. . The greater my experience, the more I am inclined to regard flat | foot^ genu valgum and varum^ as well as lateral curvatures of the i spine (scoliosis), as being due to weakness of the bones, which can- ^ not be distinguished from a mild form of rachitis. This localized j rachitis comes later in life, it is true, but it is generally between ten | and twenty years, while the disease briefly termed rachitis, as above , stated, is mostly seen in very young children; still both cases are | due to the bones remaining soft and to pliability of growing bones, r. besides which various other causes must act to induce, the above- ? mentioned distortions. j Hereafter you will often hear that some physicians think there is a direct relation between rachitis and infantile diseases of the brain, 1 especially paralyses, spasms, and psychical disorders. I will not deny ^ that this rather obscure disease may directly affect the development of the brain, but in most cases it does so indirectly. I he rachitic , process in the cranial bones is often followed by rapid sclerosis, by I such formation of new bone that even the cranial sutures may ossify ; , this interferes with the regular growth of the skull, which becomes * irregular, and here and tlierc too small for the growing brain, and ^ thence arise functional disturbances of the brain. ^ ' Rachitic children are rarely brought to the doctor before the parents notice the thick limbs or distortion, or until, as the mother expresses it, “ they are off their legs,” i. e., they' no longer wish to stand or walk, as they formerly did ; the disease is so common and so well known that often it needs no surgeon for its recognition. As a rule, treatment has only one indication, that is, to remo\e the diathesis; hence it is chiefly medical, and especially’' dietetic. Rf garding the latter, the patient should avoid too free use of bread, potatoes, mush, and flatulent vegetables; he should freely consume