TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 3G8 2. Septic Fever [Septiccemia).—By scpticajinia, we understand a constitutional, generally acute disease, which is due to the absorption of various putrid substances into the blood, and it is thought that these act as ferments in the blood, and spoil it so that it cannot fulfil its physiological functions. This disease may be induced in ani- mals by injecting putrid matter into their blood or subcutaneous tis- sue, and it has been found that large animals (large dogs, horses, etc.) may, under certain circumstances, live through the putrefactive blood- -poisoning, although it makes them very sick. Certain circumstances are necessary for putrid matter to be taken into the blood of man ; such substances are only taken through the healthy skin and mucous membranes when the putrid substances have a destructive or cauter- ant action, or an active po'wer of penetrating, like fungi and infusoria. Diseased skin or wound surfaces take up such putrid matters more readily, but even they only do so under certain circumstances; for instance, they do not readily pass through well-organized, uninjured granulations. If we dress a nicely-granulating wound on a dog Avith charpie dipped in the filthiest putrid matter, if the latter contain no cauterant substance that may destroy the granulation surface, the ani- mal will not sicken, nothing will be absorbed. Hence I conclude that the poison must in some way be prevented from entering the blood- vessels in the surface of the granulations. If the septic poison be in- troduced into the fresh tissue, it not only excites severe local inflam- mation, but quickly induces general fever. From these peculiar con- ditions under which infection from putrid substances usually takes place, it seems to me evident that the poison is absorbed chiefly by the lymphatic vessels, as I have already mentioned. Remember, also, that, in contused wounds, decomposing shreds of firm connective tis- sue, especially of tendons and fasciae, often lie for a long time on granulating wounds, without any septic poison passing from them through the superficial vessels of the granulations into the blood ; this observation verifies the experiments made on dogs. But, if the poison be not taken up by the blood-vessels, or be taken only under certain circumstances, it is very probable that its absorption is chiefly through the lymphatic vessels. I will not deny that possibly in certain swol- len states of the walls of the blood-vessels, as well as from capillary attraction, and also through the thrombi of the vessels, infectious mate- rials may reach the blood, nor that cells take up septic molecular substances and may wander with them into the blood-vessels; but, on the whole, I consider this mode of infection the exception, especially if the infectious substance be not dissolved, but exist as very fine molecules; if, for instance, it be taken up in the form of dust. Of the healthy parts of the body exposed to the air, it has only been proved