SIMPI^ INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 42 ens under moist compresses, it is often advisable to paint it with col- lodion, after it has dried. Collodion is a solution of pfun-cotton in a mi.xture of ether and alcohol. If this fluid be painted over the plaster and the skin immedi- ately adjacent, the ether quickly evaporates, and a fine membrane in- soluble in water remains, often puckering up the skin. A further therapeutic use may be made of this contractile action of collodion, by painting it on the inflamed skin, either directly, or, still better, after covering the part with a thin, coarse-meshed cot ton-cloth (gauze); this causes moderate, even pressure. When you use collodion to fasten the plaster, avoid applying it directly to the wound; this not only causes unnecessary pain, but may also induce inflammation and suppuration of the wound, which should be particular!}’- avoided. If the cutis be divided, and the plaster must resist any consi dera- ble tension in keeping the edges of the wound together, ichthyocolla- plaster proves insufficient, and adhesive plaster must be employed. Of this we have two varieties, besides innumerable modifications, from attempts to make it cheaper and better. Einplastrum adhoesivum, emplastrum diachylon compositum, our common adhesive plaster, con- sists of olive-oil, litharge, resin, and turpentine. While it is fluid from heat it is painted on linen, and it is generally used in strips, Avhich are laid over the -wound, and hold its edges together. When fresh, this plaster adheres excellently, but loosens after a time, if moist com- presses be applied over it. Very sensitive skins are irritated by this plaster if it is frequently applied; then we may resort to the other adhe- sive plaster, the emplastrum cerussoe (emplastrum adhaasivum album), which is prepared from olive-oil, litharge, and white lead, with hot water. This plaster adheres less firmly, but has the advantage of smearing the lips of the wound less than the yellow plaster. A mi.x- ture of equal parts of the two plasters lessens the objections and com- bines the advantages. In large wounds we now avoid the use of adhesive plaster more than formerly, and in its place employ the suture more commonly. Wlien we wish to unite -wounds by the suture, we generally choose between two varieties, the interrupted (sutura nodosa) and the twisted suture (sutura circumvoluta). There is some truth in the assertion that, by the introduction of a foreign body, such as a thread or needle, we maintain constant irritation in the edges of the wound, but this cannot equal the great advantage obtained by the certainty of ad- justment of the edges of the wound by means of sutures. Hence, except adhesive plaster, almost all substitutes for the suture, m which ancient and modern surgery has exhausted itself, after being fashion-