TUMORS. 62-t After what has been said, the diagnosis of fibroma is not difficult, the consistence, locality, age, mode of attachment, and form of the tumor, almost always lead to its correct recognition. The treatment consists exclusively in the removal of the tumor. When practicable, this is generally done with tlie knife ; but pedun- culated or hanging connective-tissue tumors and fibrous polypi admit of other methods of operation. Formerly the ligature was much re- sorted to in such cases, i. e., the pedicle of the tumor was tied lightly with a thread, so that it became gangrenous and fell off; this method was chosen especially in cases where bleeding from the cut surface was feared. Ligation has the great disadvantage that then the tumor decomposes in or on the body, and that the ligature must be tightened several times before it cuts through ; this may induce severe limmor- rhage. The ligature may be combined with incision, by cutting off the tumor in front of the ligature, and leaving only part of the pedicle to become detached spontaneously. In the nares and jiharynx, as well as in the vagina, there is of course great difficulty in applying a ligature, and for this jDurpose numerous instruments, simple and com- plicated, so-called loop-bearers, have been constmcted, by means of which the ligature is passed over the tumor on to the pedicle. But the ligature is now so generally rejected and so little used, that ail these instruments, some of which are very ingenious, are for the most part only of historical value. But the desire to remove pedunculated tumoi*s without hemor- rhage is still strong, and has lately led to new instruments and new methods, which, however, could not have become popular before the introduction of chloroform. Crushing and burning oft’ have now taken the place of the ligature. ^Jcrasement a?, done by Chassaignac we have already described ; this operation, if done slowly, is followed by no haemorrhage, even from arteries of the diameter of tlic radial; the resulting wound is perfectly smooth and regular, and heals well without much sloughing from the sur-face; although haemorrhage is not certainly avoided in all cases, it is in most; the instrument is made of various sizes; the smallest may be passed into the nose, and with it we may readily crush off small pedunculated naso-pharyngeal polypi. The galvano-caustic of Middleclorpf is a method of similar effect; its object is to heat a loop of platinum wire between the two poles of a galvanic battery, and with it burn ihrough the base of the tumor; the result is a simultaneous division and arrest of hmmorrhage; the latter fails about as often as it does in (Scrasement, that is, very rarely hence this method is advisable in certain cases. The trouble in pre- paring a strong, active battery (which is quite expensive) is such that galvano-caustic will probably never come into general use ; in spite of its elegance, it has been strangled almost at its birth by the intro-