DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. 589 tion of the blood on the coagulum, or in the opening of the sac, or by the ricochetting of the blood in the sac. The tumor ceases to pulsate if you compress the artery above it. These symptoms are so striking that it might be thought the diagnosis could not be mistaken ; still, errors have been made even by experienced surgeons, at times when they did not think of the possibility of aneurism, and were hasty. For, when the surrounding parts are much inflamed, the aneurism may be greatly masked by the swelling; it may be taken for a simple in- flammatory swelling or abscess ; it may even have originated from an abscess, as before stated. The latter mistake is the most frequent; it is punctured, and—what a disagreeable surprise—instead of pus, we have a stream of arterial blood. There is nothing at hand to arrest the hcemorrhage; the situation is shocking, even if the cool surgeon have presence of mind enough to make instantaneous compression till he decides what next to do. But I will not picture affairs too dismally; and I repeat that, on careful examination, such an error would scarcely be possible. If the aneurism be distended with clots, the pulsation of the tumor may cease, or be very indistinct, as may also the murmur; even here, however, furtlier accurate observation will lead to a correct judgment. On the other hand, a tumor of a dif- ferent sort may be mistaken for an aneurism. In the bones particu- larly, there is a sort of soft tumor (central osteosarcoma) which is very rich in arteries, and consequently pulsates distinctly. Numerous small aneurisms may form on these arteries, from the softening of the substance of the tumor and of the walls of the arteries; the sum of the murmurs in these small aneurisms may resemble a typical aneu- rismal murmur ; in these cases also, only the most accurate examina- tion and observation can show us the true state of the case. These pulsating bone-tumors are often regarded as true aneurism in bone. I do not believe there is any spontaneous aneurism in bone, but con- sider all these so-called bone-aneurisms as soft sarcoma in the bone very rich in arteries. Lastly, we may be tempted to regard a tumor, lying very near an artery and moved with the arterial pulse, as an in- dependently-pulsating tumor, or an aneurism ; the absence of the aneurismal murmur, the consistence of the tumor, the possibility of isolating it from the artery, and the further observation of the course, will guard you from error. The x>rognosis of aneurism varies greatly with its locality, so that nothing general can be said of it. We now turn to the treatment^ remarking, first, that in rare cases aneurism may recover spontaneously, by complete closure of the sac and a part of the artery by coagula; the tumor then ceases growing, and may gradually subside. As before mentioned, also, inflammation around tlie tumor may lead to local gangrene; if the artery lias jiro-