AFTER-TREATMENT OF AMPUTATIONS. 731 taneously, we may compress the main artery of the limb for a while with the finger. During the dressing we should only use new", soft sponges. We should wait till the bleeding is entirely arrested ; it is even desirable to leave the wound exposed to the air for a time. After circular or oval amputations, the wound is generally united in a ver- tical direction. I apply from two to four sutures in the upjoer part of the wound, leaving the lower part open. I secure flaps in the position they are to occupy by from two to four sutures, previously placing a drainage-tube dipped in glycerine in the wound across the bone, so that the two ends project from the angles of the wound. The stump should be so placed in the bed that the secretion from the wound will flow into a basin placed beneath without soiling the bed. After two days acupressure-needles may be removed, and after six or eight days the drainage-tube. In cases running a normal course, the stump should not swell nor the patient become fev'erisb. After ten to fourte'en days the parts which have not healed maj’ be covered with disinfected charpie and a bandage applied, so that the protecting frame may be removed from over the limb and the patient move more freely in bed. Should the stump swell, or the patient become feverish, the ad- hesions of the wound should be broken up with the finger, and any pus that has collected be allowed to escape. If there are neuralgic pains or frequent twitchings, subcutaneous injections of morphine may be made. If ^yvtevisl secondary hcBmorrhage occurs within twenty-four hours, the artery should be sought for and closed ; if it comes later, in the second or third week, when the w'ound is granulating, it is best first to seek the bleeding point and close it firmly; if this attempt is un- successful, and the hremorrhage recurs after prolonged digital com- pression, the main artery of the limb should be ligated. After amputation, many surgeons prefer closing the wound care- fully at once, and applying a bandage to hold the soft parts against the bone; other surgeons fill the wound with charpie dipped in styp- tics, and unite the soft parts over it by a bandage, which is not loosened for forty-eight hours. I have not seen good results from either plan. Neither the attemjit to force healing by first intention nor the endeavor to secure profuse suppuration from the first is good. Complete union by first intention may occur in the open treatment ; and if suppuration occurs, the pus can escape readily if adhesion does not take place too soon. The surgeon should learn by observation to detect this. In Listeds method the wound is completely united, but drainage-