479 TREATMENT OF BONE ABSCESSES. a hollow bone is diseased throughout with periostitis, external and internal caries, partial internal and external necrosis, there can only be a question of extirpation of the entire hone, or amputation of the affected limb. Cases of extirpation of the entire ulna or radius oc- casionally turn out well; extirpations of the first metacarpal bone are often successful. I also know pf a case where the whole humerus was removed, leaving behind the thickened periosteum; but the pa- tient died a few months after the operation from some internal dis- ease, morbus Brightii, if I mistake not, so that no decision could be made about the usefulness of the extremity ; in spite of the absence of the humerus, the hand might have been of service, which of itself would have been a great gain to the patient. Caries of the short, spongy bones, and of the articular epiphyses, is so intimately con- nected with diseases of the joints that we shall discuss it hereafter. The state of general marasmus that finally occurs from diseases of the bone, with extensive suppuration, is to be treated on general principles. We should try to prevent its occurrence, or at least ward it off to the utmost. It is the physician’s duty to preserve life as long as possible. It is also his duty, even in a patient almost cer- tainly dying, to give him every thing that can keep up his strength. Nourishing, tonic, strengthening diet is to be given from the time the first symptoms of emaciation show the failure of nutrition; later it is of no use. In children and young persons the inexperienced physician may readily be deceived as to the strength, and you will hereafter see that patients in a very bad state, emaciated to a skele- ton, and excessively antemic, pick up wonderfully and unexpectedly on amputation of the diseased limb, which seemed to be consuming their life; of course benefit could rarely result from resection under such circumstances. _ How far it is safe to carry the principle of pre- serving the limb by sawing out the diseased portion of bone can only be judged of in individual cases, and then only approximately. LECTURE XXXV. Necrosis.—Etiology.—Anatomical Conditions in Total and Partial Necrosis. Symp- toms and Diagnosis.—Treatment.—Sequestrotomy. Gentlemen': We have already frequently spoken of “necrosis” and you know that by this term we mean gangrene of the bone death of a bone, or part of a bone. I have also told you that tlie dead portion of bone is called a sequestrum. You also know tliat necrosis