215 UNIOX OF OPEN FPwiCTURES. of a plate of bone is termed necrosis superficialis^ while that of the whole fractured end of the bone may be called necrosis totalis / but the latter term is more usual for indicating that the entire diaphysis of a long bone, or at least the greater part of it, is detached, and the opposite of this is necrosis partialis. The opposite of the above- mentioned necrosis superficialis, which is also termed exfoliation.^ properly necrosis centralis., that is, detachment of an inner portion of bone. Necrosis superficiahs and necrosis of the broken ends and partly-detached fragments of the bone are so often combined with sup- purating fractures, of which we have to treat here, that we must treat of them in this place. It will at first seem strange to you that vascu- lar granulations should spring from the hard, smooth cortical substance of a long bone. From what has already been said, it will seem pos- sible that, under the influence of this plastic process, the hard osseous tissue should be so dissolved that there may be a spontaneous solu- tion of continuity between the dead and healthy bone. We shall now study more exactly these processes of formation of granulations and of suppuration in bone. You will remember, from the full description of traumatic suppu- ration of the soft parts, that in traumatic inflammation the process chiefly depends on free suppuration and extensive formation of new vessels, as well as on direct cell-infiltration from the blood, while the intercellular substance assumes a gelatinous or fluid consistence. Both of these processes can only take place to a slight extent in bone, especially in the firm cortical substance of a long bone, because the Arm osseous substance prevents much dilatation of the capillaries which are enclosed in the Haversian canals. I may at once call your attention to the fact that, from this slight distensibility of the vessels in the osseous canals, portions of bone may more readily die than Avould be the case with the soft parts, because, in case of coagulation of blood, even in the smaller vessels, the nutrition can be only imper- fectly kept up by collateral circulation. Moreover, the connective tissue and the vessels in the Haversian canals may be entu’ely de- stroyed by suppuration, so that necrosis at the ends of the fragments will be inevitable. Should a vascular granulation-tissue develop on the surface of the bone or in its compact substance, this can only occur as previously described, after the osseous substance (lime-salts as well as organic matter) has disappeared at the point where the new tissue is to appear; hence there must be solution and atrophy of the bone- tissue, just as there are of the soft parts under similar circumstances (see Fig. 39). The whole difference appears chiefly in the difference of time, for the development of granulations on and in the bone takes much longer than in the soft parts. I have already stated that the