CHAPTER XVII. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. LECTURE XXXVII. General Eemarks on the Distinguishing Characteristics of the Chief Forms.—A. Fun- gous and Suppurative Articular Inflammations (Tumor Albns), Symptoms, Anato- my, Caries Sicca, Suppuration, Atonic Forms.—Etiology.—Course and Prognosis. I^S" more than half the cases of chronic inflammation of the joints, the synovial membrane is the part first affected; this affection may be accompanied by more or less secretion of fluid, and this fluid may be purely serous or purulent. Chronic serous synovitis (liydrops articvlorum chronicus), unless from some external cause, is no more apt to become purulent synovitis than is chronic articular rheumatism. But other forms of chronic inflammation of the joints may be accom- panied by suppuration from the first, or else may be characterized by the formation of numerous granulations. The two chief groups of chronic articular inflammation are characterized by the condition of the synovial membrane even more than by the quality of the fluid contained in the joint; when the secretion is purely serous, the syno- vial membrane is somewhat thickened, it is true; the tufts are en- larged, and their apices are somewhat more vascular than normal, still these changes are never so extensive as to gieatly injure the membrane ; but in the other variety of chronic inflammation the mem- brane changes greatly, and is gradually transformed into a spongy (fungous) mass of granulations, which often, but not always, produces pus, opens outwardly (fistula, cold abscess), causes distortion of the cartilages and bones, and may thus induce peripheral caries of the epiphysis. This latter group, which has several subvarieties, we shall iorm fungom a,\\(\.sup2mrative inflammations of the joints ; they form the great majority of all articular inflammations, and hence will occupy our attention for some time. For a more exhaustive account of joint diseases, I refer you especially to the excellent works of Bonnet, Volk mann, and Hueter.