223 TREATMENT OF OFEN FRACTURES. quantities of wadding (two finger-breadths thick) should be laid on the limb before the dressing is apjalied, so that, even if there should be swelling, the limb may not be strangulated by the dressing. Tlie difficulty of applying any firm dressing is increased by the presence of a large wound or of several wounds at tho same time. Should there be extensive and deep suppuration in such cases, so that numerous counter-openings must be made, and the number of the Avounds thus increased, it will be impossible to keep the same dress- ing long, and we may then be obliged temporarily to return to splints and fracture-boxes, which must be completely renewed every day. Moreover, as you may gather from what has been said, these severe cases often stand on the borders of amj^utation, i. e., their union is very problematical. The more practice one has in the application of the plaster-dressing, the more rarely will bad accidents happen. Since I have applied the dressing in the above manner to complicated fractures, I see diffuse septic inflammations and secondary suppura- tions much more rarely. I am convinced that the treatment of open fractures by plaster-dressings is the best; but this method must be studied, we must not suppose we know it a priori. Should a surgeon of the old school see our present treatment of fractures, simple as well as complicated, he would consider it not only irrational but foolhardy, for formerly fractures, like all other injuries, were treated first by antiphlogistics, every thing else being secondary. Hence it Avas considered necessary to apply leeches to the limb in the vicinity of the fracture, to keep on cold compresses or bladders of ice, and to purge the patient freely. Subsequently, when suppuration from the open fracture began, they usually resorted to cataplasms, Avdiich Avere continued till healing Avas almost completed. Besides this, splints Avere applied and changed about every tAvo or three days, according as the Avound was dressed more or less frequently on ac- count of the suppuration. Larrey was one of the first to sjDeak against this frequent change of dressings in wounds, especially in open fractures ; if Ave may trust his notes, he carried this idea to an unjus- tifiable extent, for he did not ahvays remove the dressings even wliei' quantities of maggots had developed under them. Of late, the gen eral opinion is that, in the treatment of open as well as of simple frac- tures, the accurate fixation of the fragments is the first requirement for favorable union, and that nothing is more apt to excite inflammation around the wound than movement of the fragments. Hence a firm dressing is the most important and efficacious antqAhlogistic that Ave can use. We here repeat a previous remark, that cold and abstrac- tion of blood have no prophylactic and antiphlogistic action, as was for- merly supposed. If, on account of commencing progressive inHainma-