PSEUDARTHEOSIS. 227 cause, such as disease of tlie bone, that induces false joint. There are certain fractures of the human skeleton which from various causes very rarelj' unite by bony callus; among these, are intracapsular frac- tures of the neck of the femur, neck of the humerus, and fractures of the olecranon and patella. When fractured transversely the two latter bones separate so far that the osseous substance formed on the two ends cannot meet, so that only a dgamentous union can take place be- tween these tw'o parts of bone. When fractured within the capsule the head of the femur • has, it is true, a supply of blood through a small artery which enters it through the ligamentum teres, but this source of nutrition is very slight, consequently the laroduction of bone from the small fragments is slight. In fracture of the head of the humerus within the capsule, in the rare case of part of the head be- ing entirely detached from the rest of the bone, this portion of bone will receive no supply of blood, and will act as a foreign body; its union can scarcely be expected. In the above examples, we regard non-union so much as the rule that we do not usually call them cases of pseudarthrosis. But I wish to show you that there may be purely local causes that predispose to pseudarthrosis; among these espe- cially belongs complete loss of large pieces of bone, after the removal of which, in open fractures, there may be so large a defect that it will not be again filled by new bone-tissue. Protracted suppuration with ulcerativ'^e destruction, and extensive detachment of the ends of the fragments, may also lead to pseudarthrosis. Moreover, the treatment is occasionally blamed; too loose a dressing, or none at all, and too early motion, are occasionally accused. On the other hand, it has been asserted that too continued application of cold, the simultaneous ligation of large arteries, and, lastly, too tight a dressing, may inter- fere with proper development of bony callus. All this alone does not necessarily lead to pseudarthrosis, but may act as a second cause when the general conditions of nutrition in the organism predispose to it. Of the general predispositions and bone diseases, the following may bo mentioned as disposing to pseudarthrosis: bad nutrition, debility from repeated losses of blood, specific diseases of the blood, such as scorbutis, or cancerous cachexia. Of the diseases of the bones, it is chiefly osteomalacia, atrophy of the cortical substance, with enlarge- ment of the medullary cavity, in which, as already mentionecl, in certain stages there is not only decided fragilitas ossium, but in which also the chances for reunion are slight. I have stated all this, because it is gen- erally accepted, although, on sharp critical examination, some of the above-mentioned predisposing causes for pseudarthrosis are of very different value, while the significance of others is entirely doubtful. In the same way it is a common belief that fractures arc not consoH-