734 AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. plaints from these patients. Pains in the stump with each change in the weather, excoriations of the cicatrix, pressure of tlie artificial limb at one place or another, and constant repairs of it, are the most frequent complaints. Some sutfer for years from the sensation of still having their limb ; for instance, after amputation of the thigh they exclaim : “ I have a pain in the little toe ; the big toe is being torn; my foot lies in a bad position,” etc. During the first days and weeks after amputation these sensations are the rule, and are so decided and strong that by covering the stump we may deceive patients for weeks about the loss of their limbs; but I have seen patients who had the same sensations after years. As regards the substitute for the limb, much depends on the patient’s position in life and his means, not only for buying a limb, but for keeping it in repair and replacing it when worn out. Artificial arms and well-imitated hands are articles of adornment and luxury. Active movements of the fingers have not been attained, but mechanism for grasping has been arranged with springs which are opened by the other hand. I will not enter into more detail. For the arm or forearm, a workman may have a leather case held in place by straps, and having- a solid piece of wood at its lower end, into which may be fastened hooks, etc. On Sunday he may j)ut on a hand carved from wood. It is astonishing what intelligent j^ersons can accomplish with such apparatuses. I have a long, beautifully- Avritten letter from a man for whom I amputated both hands. He was an engineer, and got his hands caught and crushed in a rapidly- revolving water-wheel. Subsequently, without hands, he earned his living by writing. As regards the lower limbs, there are few stumps on which the patient can bear the entire weight of tlie body; and these are the stumps after amputations and exarticulations of the foot, and some- times after exarticulations at the knee. In all other cases the pa- tients rest on the condyles of the tibia or tuber ischii, Avhich bony parts are supported on a firm, cushioned ring, wliich forms the upper end of the shield of the artificial limb, and into which the stump is introduced. After amputations of the leg, it is desirable to divide the weight of the body on these two points. Another way is for a patient whose leg has been amputated to rest the bent knee on a Avooden leg; this, of course, prevents any motion at the knee-joint. In regard to the construction of artificial limbs and Avooden legs, I Avill say nothing, except to add that for their use a certain amount of skill and intelligence is required, as Avell as pecuniary means for attending to the repairs so often required by any artificial limb. Hence, for Avorking-peoplc, as most of our hosj)ital patients are, it