593 TREATMENT OF CIRSOID ANEURISM. After the operation there is suppuration of the whole aneurismal sac; in three cases of traumatic aneurism of the brachial, and one of the radial artery, I saw healing occur without any accident. If the aneu- rism be small and distinctly bounded, we might first ligate above and below, then extirpate the aneurism as we would a tumor. Of late, Syme has employed the method of Antylhts successfully in large arteries also. I should like to give you some definite advice about the choice of method among these different plans of operating, but this is scarcely possible, as one plan or another will best suit different cases. In gen- eral terms, I can merely repeat that of late so many favorable results from compression have again been published from different sources, that it should not be too quickly abandoned. If, however, as usually happens in aneurisms from venesection, there be great diffuse swell- ing of the entire arm, the method of Antyllus appears to me prefer- able to all others; with good assistants it is very practicable, and is not so dangerous as is claimed by many persons. When we do not wish to make Antyllus's operation, we may try AneVs or Hunter's. I have least to say for the injection of liquor ferri in ordinary cases of spontaneous and traumatic aneurism. In varicose aneurism and aneurismal varix, ligating the artery above and below the opening will be the most certain method. We must still add a few remarks about the treatment of cirsoid aneurism. The above methods of operation are only partially appli cable to it. Direct compression of the entire tumor may be made by means of bandages and compresses prepared for the special cases; we mean particularly the aneurisms of this variety coming on the head which are the most frequent, but compression has rarely proved successful. The injection of liquor ferri may here prove useful, for suppuration or gangrene of the entire convolution of arteries is not so much to be feared as in aneurisms of the large arteries of the extremities. The destruction might be accomplished by ligating all the afferent arteries, but this is very tedious and uncertain ; the result would be just as doubtful, and it might be dangerous to ligate one or both external carotids in a cirsoid aneurism of the scaljD. An- other method, having the same object, is to insert insect-needles through the skin at difi'erent points around the tumor, and apply a thread, as in the twisted suture; the result will be suppuration and obliteration, perhaps partial gangrene of the skin. Total extirpation may occasionally be resorted to; it is done as follows: Around the tumor we make numerous percutaneous mediate ligations close to- gether ; then we mjw c”t out the main body of the tumor, with the