TUMORS. 644 (c.) Cauterization; for this purpose fuming nitric acid is best; it should be applied by a rod about as thick as a goose-quill, till the angioma assumes a yellowish-g-reen color. (d.) By extii-pation with the scissors or knife. After some experience in operating, the choice of these methods in any given case is not difficult. In superficial angiomata, if not al- together too extensive, and not so situated that the subsequent cica- tricial contraction would cause decided deformity, as on some parts of the face, I regard cauterization with fuming nitric acid as the proper method. In extensive plexiform, and in the cavernous angiomata, re- moval with the knife and scissors is the most certain operation. Too profuse haemorrhages in such operations may be prevented partly bv compression of the parts around by skilled assistants, and the rapid application of the suture, partly by free mediate ligation of the whole periphery of the tumor. In many cases of angioma of the face also extirpation is to be preferred to cauterization, because the incision may be so directed that the subsequent cicatricial contraction shall induce no distortion of the eyelids or angle of the mouth. But there are cases where extirpation is entirely impracticable, partly from the size, partly from the seat or number of such tumors. I treated a child, with a still growing cavernous tumor wliich extended from the glabella, through the nose and whole upper lip. If it had been de- sired to extiqaate this, it would have been necessary to remove the whole nose and upper lip ; of course, this was not to be thought of; hence I tried cauterization with heated needles. The treatment had lasted three months, and Avould have taken as much longer, although a large part of the cavernous space was already obliterated, when the mother of the child unfortunately lost patience, and I never saw it again. I prefer this mode of cauterization to the injection of liquor ferri, as suppuration and gangrene occasionally follow the latter, .and as the injection is occasionally rendered difficult by the fine canula licing stopped by coagula. The other methods are of very secondary importance; vaccination frequently does not go deep enough, and the licature is a tedious, uncertain method, which is sometimes rendered dangerous by secondary luBmoin'hage. In the form of an appendix I may also mention ; 1. Cavernous lymphatic tumors (lymidiangioma cavernosum), a very rare form of neoplasm, which is of the same anatomical for- mation as cavernous blood-tumors, but with the difference that, in- stead of blood, there is lymph in the mesh-work. This variety of the tumor occihs congenitally in the tongue as a form of macrofflos-