Ill DISEASES OF THE GRAIIULATIONS. posed that in all inflammatory croupous process, especially in the ordinary form of acute inflammation of the lungs and pleura, the blood was over-rich in fibrine; that there was a fibrinous crasis in the blood, as a result of which, the excessive fibrine escaping from the capillaries, coagulates partly on, partly in, the inflamed surface, and so led to the formation of these pseudomembranous deposits, Vir- choic, on the other hand, proposed the idea that, by the inflammatory process, the tissue may be placed in a condition to cause coagulation of the fibrinous solution infiltrating it. I cannot here enter more par- ticularly into the various grounds on which Virchow bases this view, but shall only call attention to the fact that in the case in question (of fibrinous exudation on the granulating surface), at least there can be no rapidly coming and evanescent fibrous crasis of the blood; but evidently it is a local process which may readily be removed by local remedies. According to the repeatedly-mentioned observations of A. Schmidt, we may infer that in certain quantitative and qualitative irritations of the tissue, more fibrogenous tissue than usual escapes from the capillaries. Virchow had even previously called attention to the fact that, fi'om repeated irritation, simple serous exudation may become fibrinous or croupous. If you apjDly a spanish-fly blister to the skin, a vesicle filled with serous fluid fonns—the superficial layer being lifted from the rete mucosum by the rapidly-forming serous exu- dation ; if we remove the vesicle and reapply the blister, in many cases after a few hours we shall find the surface covered with a fibrin- ous layer, which contains innumerable newly-formed cells; indeed, is almost entirely composed of them. We may attain the same result by applying the plaster to skin already inflamed, or to a young cicatrix. The treatment of croupous inflammation of the granulations is purely local; we should carefully seek for any causes of new irrita- tion, and try to remove them. Daily remove the fibrinous rinds, and cauterize the exposed surface with nitrate of silver, or paint it with tincture of iodine, and you will soon see this abnormal state of the granulating surface disappear. 4. Besides the above diseases of the granulations, there is occa- sionally a state of perfect relaxation and collapse, in which they pre- sent an even, red, smooth, shiny surface, from which the nodular, granular appearance has entirely disappeared, and, instead of pus, a thin watery serum is secreted. This state almost always occurs in the granulations at the end of life; as already mentioned, you always find it in the cadaver. It is still necessary to add something about the cicatrices, con- cerning certain subsequent changes in them, their proliferation and their shape in difl’erent tissues.