5G4 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. paralysis from meningitis and encephalitis, especially in children. These contractions occur on one or both sides, chiefly in the lower extremities. From its mechanical construction a completely paralyzed leg hangs and lies with the foot extended, and turned somewhat in- ward ; of this you may convince yourself by examining any cadaver which is not rigid. If the foot be not purposely brought out of this position, it becomes gradually fixed there, partly by the ligaments on the back of the foot, the muscles of the calf, tendo achillis, and super- jacent fasciae atrophying, partly by the slower growth of these parts; gradually also the articular surfaces and the form of the bones change as a result of unequal pressm-e, as previously explained, and it becomes more difficult and at last impossible to bring the foot into a right-an- gled position; in attempting to effect this the resistance from the muscles and tendons is most readily perceived, hence the opinion that the gastrocnemius muscle and the tendo achillis were contracted, even in cases where it was just as much paralyzed as the other muscles of the leg. Then it was thought that only the extensor muscles were fully paralyzed, while the antagonists preserved some innervation, so that they alone acted on the foot and attained a relative preponder- ance. Thus arose the theory of antagonistic contractions taught especially by Ddpecli; which was sustained chiefly by those cases where there was really an unequal distribution of paresis and paraly- sis of the different groujDS of muscles. It was Hueter who first called attention to the fact that it was chiefly the continued position as- sumed b}'- the paralyzed limb, from its weight, that induced the con- tractions, and that these so-called antagonistic contractions were not at all muscular actions, but, as in congenital club-foot, were due to atrophy and lack of growth. After investigating this view, I must entirely agree with it. I had often met cases where the theory of antagonistic contractions seemed doubtful; as in one case where at tlie battle of Sadowa a soldier was shot through the right forearm and had the radial nerve torn ; four years subsequent!}’ there was to- tal paralysis of all the parts supplied by that nerve, but not a sign of antagonistic contraction. If we carry our investigations to paralyzed limbs, we find that, in cases where the patients sit all day with the leg and thigh flexed, contractions take place at the knee and hip, but, if the patients with partly paralyzed limbs still have strength enough to move about with siipport, the movements of the joints continue up to a certain point. This also you may best see on a cadaver that is not rigid ; the foot placed on the ground, with the body resting on it, . turns outward (pes plano-valgus paralyticus), the knee bends for- ward and outward (genu antecurvatum), while at the hip the body falls fmward till it is supported by the sound leg, crutches, or cane.