AITEXDIX TO CHAPTERS V, AND VI. 228 dated in pregnant females. This is not true in all cases; I have my. self seen numerous fractures unite in jn-egnant women, only once hardening of the callus was delayed a few weeks in a fracture of the lower end of the radius, which was recognized late, as might also occur in women not pregnant, or in men. The abnormity of the healing process in case of pseudarthrosis is not due to the non-formation of callus, but to the failure of ossificar tion in the new formation. The substance connecting the fragments becomes a more or less rigid connective tissue, by which the ends of the bone are held more or less closely together. If the fragments lie so close that they come in contact on motion of the limb, a cavity with smooth walls, filled with sero-mucous fluid, forms between them in the uniting tissue; and, on the fractured ends, cartilage has been found, so that there was, in fact, a sort of new joint. This does not, however, occur very often, but in most cases we have simply a firm connecting mass, which sinks directly into the fragments like a tendon. ^Vlien such a pseudarthrosis is in a small bone, such as the clavicle, or one of the bones of the forearm, the disturbance of func- tion is always bearable; but, if it be located in the arm, thigh, or leg, of course there must be considerable impairment of function. In some cases it is possible, by suitable supporting apparatus, to give the limb the necessary firmness; in other cases we cannot do this at all, or only incompletely, so that for a long time attempts have been made to cure this disease by operation, that is, by inducing ossifica- tion. Before passing to the methods used for this purpose, we must mention the attempts made to prevent false joint, and to cure it, when once established, by internal remedies. Preparations of lime are chiefly used for this purpose. Phosphate of lime was given internally in the shape of powder; lime-water was given in milk, but without much benefit. Of the lime given in this way, little is absorbed, and, of this superfluous lime taken into the blood, much was excreted through the kidneys, so that the pseudarthrosis had little good from it. We may expect more from general regulation of diet, and jire- scribing articles of food that contain lime. Residence in pure country air, and milk-diet, are to be recommended; but you must not expect too much from these remedies, especially in a fully-formed false joint that has existed for years. In a recently-published and very interest- ing work by 'Wegner^ it is shown, by a number of experiments, that by continued administration of small doses of phosphorus the forma- tion cf callus about fractures is particularly luxurious and hard, as well as that in growing animals the portion of bone formed during the ad- ministration of phosphorus is unusually dense and liard, and very rich in chalky salts. These experiments would lead us to try phos-