290 ACUTE NON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT PARTS. inflammations also occurring in the fingers and hand, panaritium sul>- cutaneum. If the inflammation affect the vicinity of the nail, or the nail-bed itself^ it is termed panaritium sub ungue. Let us first con- sider the symptoms of phlegmon of the forearm : it begins Avith j-ain, swelling, and redness of the skin, and usually with high fever; the skin of the arm is somewhat oedematous and very tense. With this commencement, which always announces an acute inflammation of the arm, its seat may vary greatly, and in the first day or two you may be unable to decide whether it is a case of inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, of perimuscular inllammation below the fascia, or even of periostitis or ostitis. The greater the oedema, the more considerable the pain, the less the redness of skin, and the less intense the fever, the more probably you have to anticiisate a deep- seated inflammation which will terminate in suppuration. If the in- flammation attacks only the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and goes on to suppuration, as it does in most cases (though resolution is seen), this emnces itself in a fcAV days by the skin becoming red at some point, and distinct fluctuation occurring. Then the pus either per- forates spontaneously, or is let out by au incision. If the inflamma- tion affect parts of the body where the sldn, and especially the epi- dermis, is particularly thick, as in the hands and feet, there is at first little perceptible redness, as it Avould be hidden by the thick layer of eiAidermis. Pain, and a peculiar tension and throbbing in the inflamed part, announce the formation of pus under the skin. In some of these cases a portion of the skin becomes gangrenous, the circulation being disturbed by the tension of the tissue, part of the skin loses its vitality. The fasciae also are occasionally threat- ened by these inflammations; in such cases they come through the openings of the cutis as large, white, consistent, thready tags. Tliis is particularly the case in inflammations of the scalp, which not un- freciuently extend over the entire skull; the Avhole galea aponeurotica may thus be lost. Let us now pass to the more minute anatomical changes that take place in acute inflammation of the cellular tissue; Ave shall not here return to the dispute as to whether vessels, tissues, or nerves, are first affected, but shall only speak of what Ave can find on direct anatomical examination. A series of observations on thecadaA'er, Avhere in various cases Ave see inflammation in dilferent stages, gives us sufficient infor- mation on this subject. The first things AA’^e find are distention of the capillaries and SAvelling of the tissue by serous exudation from the vessels, and a rich, plastic infiltration, varying Avith the stage, i. e., the connective tissue is filled with quantities of young, round cells. This, then, is the anatomical condition of the cellular tissue under the