508 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. with the superjacent synovial proliferations; the latter sinks loops of vessels into it, and the better the neoplasia is nourished by this means, the more rapidly it consumes the entire cartilage. From this description you see that the course of the dissolution of cartilage is about the same as in the case of bone, but with this important dif- Fig. 94. a Degeneration of the cartilage in fungous inflammation of the Joint, a, Grannlation-tissne on the surface, magnified 350 diameters; after 0. Weder. ference, that the cartilage-cells themselves actively assist in dissolving the intercellular substance, while the bone-cells remain inactive, and absorption results solely from proliferation of the cells in the Haversian canals. But I must here state that in cartilage there are also occa- sionally appearances which show that sometimes the cartilage-cells do not take much active part, i. e., participate little in the cell-prolifera- tion, so that there may also be a more passive absorjotion of the car- tilage-substance from proliferation of the synovial membrane. The histological changes in the articular capsule and ligaments consist in serous and plastic infiltration which only attain a high grade at certain points, but generally only induce connective-tissue neoplasia?, which to the naked eye resemble fatty thickenings. Since Cohnheim's observations have shown that a great part of the cells found in in- flamed tissues are wandering white blood-corpuscles, it seemed doubt- ful what part the cells of the stable tissues have in the inflammatory new formations. Although this question may not be answered for a time as regards the soft tissue, the new discoveries cau.se no change in the above observations, regarding the proliferation of carli- lage-cells by division. It is actually necessary to prove the latter over again by special new observations, because the surprising new facts regarding the former are so imposing, that one can scarcely believe his eyes.