468 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. the sternum, palatine process, and nasal bones, are often affected; ne- crosis often follows syphilitic caries. Some recent authors, such as H. Vblkmann, represent syphilis of the bone as something peculiar, under the name of ostitis gummosa / I acknowledge that certain com- binations are particularly frequent, giving rise to typical pictures of the disease; but, anatomically, syphilis in the bone is nothing more than ostitis and periostitis. In many cases, even on most careful ex- amination, we are unable to find any local or general cause for the existing caries, and I consider it better to admit this than to try with all our might to discover some dyscrasia. LECTURE XXXIV. ■ Process of Cure in Caries and Congestion Abseesses.—Prognosis.—General Ilealtn m H Clironio Inflammations of the Bone.—Secondary Lymphatic Enlargements.— ■ Treatment of Caries and Congestion Abscesses.—Reseetions in the Continuity. ■ Before passing to the treatment of chronic periostitis and ostitis, ■ we must add a feAV remarks about the process of cure in caries, and H about the prognosis. The first will vary somewhat with the activity ■ of the process, as it does in ulcers of the skin. Supposing the pro- cess of proliferation in the new formation to cease, the interstitial fl granulation-tissue will gradually shrink together, and be transformed into cicatricial tissue. Considered histologically, this process consists of the retrogression of the gelatinous intercellular substance into firm, filamentary connective tissue, while the richly-developed capillary H vessels are mostly obliterated, and the cells acquire the character of connective-tissue cells. If the caries was accompanied by suppura- tion, the latter gradually ceases, and the fistulas close. If part of the H bone had already been destroyed by the ostitis, and there was dis- placement, it does not disappear, but the loss of bone is supplied by a H retracted connective-tissue cicatrix, and the dislocated bones are united H in their false position by such a cicatri.x; this connective tissue gener* |H ally ossifies subsequently. The cicatricial union of two dislocated bones, as of two vertebras, Avhich have come into contact by the destruction of fil a vertebra previously lying between them, also ossifies, and thus jjk unites the vertebras firmly; the actual substitution of bone for any J neoplasia to such an extent as to straighten the S[)ine again, or en , ^ tirely or partly to replace any other bone, never occurs in caries. Should an atonic ulcer of the bone heal, it may do so in one of \ two ways: either any portion of bone that has become neciosed mus i