22 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. mucous membranes; it also has more elastic tissue and muscles, bv which (as we may feel and see in the cold and so-called goose-flesh) the vessels are more readily compressed than they are in the mucous membranes, which are poor in elastic and muscular tissue; hence simple skin-wounds bleed less than those in mucous membranes. Haemor- rhages from the capillaries alone cease spontaneously if the tissue be healthy, because the openings of the vessels are compressed by con- traction of the wounded tissue. In diseased parts, w hich do not con- tract, even haemorrhage from dilated capillaries may be very consider- able. • Haemorrhage from the arteries is readily recognized, on the one hand, because the blood floAvs in a stream, which sometiitles clearly show's the rhythmical contractions of the heart; on the other, by the bright-red color of the blood. If there be impaired respiration, this bright-red color may change to a dark hue; thus, in operations on the neck, performed to prevent threatening sufibcatiou, and in deep anaes- thesia, dark or almost black blood may spm-t from the arteries. The amount of blood escaping depends on the diameter of the totally- divided artery, or on the size of the opening in its wall. You .must not, how'ever, believe that the stream of blood corresponds exactly to the size of the arteiy ; it is usually much smaller, for the calibre of the artery generally contracts at the point of division; only the larger arteries, such as the aorta, carotids, femoral, axillary, etc., have so little muscular fibre that they contract, in their circumference at least, to a scarcely perceptible extent. In very small arteries, this con- traction of the cut vessel has such an effect that, from the increased friction, the blood flows from them without spurting or pulsating; in- deed, in very small arteries, this friction may be so decided that the blood flows wdth difficulty and very slowly, and soon coagulates, so that the hmmorrhage is arrested spontaneously. The smaller the dianieter of the arteries becomes, from diminution of the amount of blood in the body, the more readily htemorrhage wiU be arrested spon- taneously, while otherwise it would have to be arrested artificially. Hereafter, you wall often have occasion to see in the clinic how freely the blood spurts at the commencement of an operation, and how' much less it w'ill be toward the end, even when w'e cut larger vessels than were at first divided. Thus decrease of the total volume of blood may cause spontaneous arrest of limmorrhage ; the weaker contractions of the heart have also some influence in this. Indeed, in internal hajmor- rhages that we cannot reach directly, we employ rapid abstraction of blood from the arm (venesection) as a hasinostatic; in such coses the artificial excitement of anaemia is not unfrequently the only remedy we have for internal hmmorrhage, paradoxical as this may seem to