INJURIES OF THE JOINTS, 230 and sprain of the joint are scarcely noticed by many patients, the open- ing of a synovial sac, with escape of synovia, even if the w'ound be not large, always has a serious effect on the function of the joint, and is not unfrequently dangerous to life. Here, again, we have the differ- ence between subcutaneous traumatic inflammations and those wliich open outwardly, of which we spoke when on the subject of con- tusions, and which we also saw in subcutaneous and open fractures. Moreover, in the joints, we have closed irregularly-shaped sacs, in which the pus, once formed, remains, and, besides inflammation of the serous membranes, may result in very tedious processes, but in its acute state often has a bad effect on the general health of the patient. I think the quickest way to describe the process will be to give you a few examples. We are here speaking only of simple punctured, incised, or cut wounds, wdthout complications from sprains or frac- tures, and choose as our example the knee-joint; at the same time we must remark that injuries of this joint are regarded as the most se- vere. A man comes to }mu, who, in cutting wood, has received a wound half an inch long, near the patella, and which has bled but little. This may have happened some hours before, or even the pre- vious day. The patient pays little attention to the wound, and only asks your advice about a proper dressing. You inspect the wound, find that from its position it corresponds to the knee-joint, and around it you may perhaps see some serous, thin, mucous, clear fluid, which escapes in greater quantities when the joint is moved. This wiU call your attention particularly to the injury; you examine the patient, and learn from him that, immediately after the injury, there w’as not much bleeding, but a fluid like white of egg escaped. In such cases you may be certain that the joint has been opened, otherwise the synovia could not have escaped. In small joints the escape of synovia is so slight as to be scarcely noticeable, hence, in injuries of the finger-joint, and even of the ankle, elbow, and wrist, it may for a time be doubtful whether the wound has penetrated the joint or not. When a penetrating wound of the joint is certain, the following rule."’ should at once be pursued: The patient should keep quiet in bed, the wound should be united as quicldy as possible, to prevent the es- cape of more synovia, which would interfere with healing of the wound by first intention; hence we close the skin-wound, if it has a tendency to gape. This may best be done by sutures accurately applied; in some small wounds, carefully-applied adhesive plaster, or ichthyo- colla-plaster, painted with collodion, may suffice. Now the joint is to be kept absolutely quiet; this can only be done by firmly bandaging the limb, from below, with w^ct bandages. In the case before us, the whole leg should be kept securely and firmly extended on .a hoi-