G05 ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. of the mucous membranes result from long-continued catarrh; syphilis induces, first, inflammations; then, tumors. I would incidentally re- mark that I do not consider any product of syphilis a tumor; a gummy nodule or a caseous nodule, caused by syphilis, either heals by reab- sorption, or, after being slit up, by suppurating and cicatrizing, while in an incised tumor this is exceedingly rare. JI, Meckle von Hems- hach advanced the opposite idea, e. g., he says enchondroma of the finger is the mildest expression of a scrofulous diathesis. If we com- pare the products of inflammation with the histologically more devel- oped tumors, it must be acknowledged that, as being the more slowly developed neoplasias, tumors are probably due to a feebler local irri- tation, more allied to normal growth. All these considerations apply only to true growths. In what follows we shall treat of these alone. When Virchow classes encapsulated extravasations of blood and dropsies of serous sacs among the tumors, he goes beyond our pres- ent views. LECTURE XLV. Etiology of Tumors ; Miiismatic Influence.—Specific Infection.—Specific Reaction of tlie Irritated Tissues ; its Cause is always constitutional.—Internal Irritations; Ilypotlieses as to the Character and Mode of the Irritant Action.—Course and Prognosis: Solitary, Multiple, Infectious Tumors.—Dyscrasia.—Treatment.—Prin- ciples of the Classification of Tumors. Let us now go more minutely into the etiology of tumors. Here we should propose to find the differences and points of resemblance between the processes causing inflammatory neoplasite and tumors. Let us start with the causes of inflammation, and compare them with those of tumors. Many acute inflammatory processes (exanthemata, typhus, etc.), and some chronic ones (intermittents, scorbutus, etc.), are due to miasmata and contagions, which enter the body from with- out. I do not know any acute miasmatic tumors; but goitre must be considered as a chronic endemic-miasmatic tumor ; goitre cannot be regarded as a product of inflammation, as it never sjsontaneously ret- rogrades, suppurates, or shrinks up into a cicatrix ; the cause is a spe- cific extcnial one, to which every one, especially the young, is occa- sionally exposed, who comes into a country where goitre is endemic ; all are not equally disposed to it, there may be an hereditary tendency; infection probably occurs through the blood; at least, we cannot well imagine how the thyroid gland should be infected by local infection. Hence goitre is probably the local expression of a general infection, which occasionally evinces itself in the whole nutritive state, espe-