ACUTE PERIOSTITIS. 301 tilages continue, do not communicate with the vessels of the diaphj^sis, ^vhich have their own nutrient arteries. Tliis distribution of the ves- sels explains why diseases of the diaphyses in young persons rarely pass to the epiphyses and the reverse. Genetically the articular caj> sule is a continuation of the periosteum, and a certain connection is often observed between articular and periosteal diseases, the diseases of one readily passing to the other. In the course of the following observations we shall have occasion to recur to these anatomical con- ditions. First, let us speak of acute 2:>criostitis and osteomyelitis^ of which you have already heard something in the remarks on suppuration of bone in the chapter on open fractures (p. 221). This disease is not very frequent; it occurs chiefly in young persons, and in its t}q)ical forms almost exclusively in the long bones. The femur is most frequently attacked, next the tibia, more rarely the humerus and bones of the forearm. I have seen the disease occur primarily or secondarily in the vicinity of acutely-inflamed joints, after catching cold, and after severe concussions and contusions of the bones. It is possible that the extravasation into the medulla from crushing or con- tusion of a bone may be reabsorbed, without the occuiTence of any symptom but a continued pain as the result of the injury; but such injuries may occasionally induce chronic aflections of various sorts. In many cases we cannot discover whether only the periosteum or the medulla of the bone is affected; the distinction is usually only ren- dered certain by the subsequent course and by the termination. The symptoms are as follows: The disease begins M'ith high fever, not un- frequently with a chill; there is severe pain in the affected limb, whicli swells at first without redness. The severe pain prevents motion of the limb; every touch or the slightest jarring is very painful; the skin is tense, usually oedematous, and occasionally the distended sub- cutaneous veins show through, a sign that the flow of blood to the deeper parts is obstructed. The inflammation may affect the whole or only part of a bone. But these symptoms simply indicate the ex- istence of an intense deeply-seated acute inflammation. But as idip- pathic inflammation of the perimuscular and peritendinous cellular tissue is very unfrequcnt, and rarely begins with so much pain, we shall not err in most cases if, with the above symptoms, we diagnosti- cate acute periostitis, perhaps accompanied by osteomyelitis. If, while there are great jjain and fever, or com2)lete inability to move the limb on account of pain, swelling does not occur for several days, we may suspect that the primary seat of the inflammation is the medullary cavity of the bone, and that at first the periosteum participates but little. In this stage the diseased part is in about the following 21 con-