CONTUSIONS OP BLOOD-VESSELS. 147 Fig. 38. tions in various stages, we find that it is the coloring matter of the blood which gradually 23asses through the metamorphoses and shades of color. When the blood has escaped from the vessels and entered the connective tissue, the fibrine coagulates. The serum enters the connective tissue, and thence passes back into the vessels; it is re- absorbed. The coloring matter of the blood leaves the blood-corpus- cles, and in a state of solution is distributed through the tissue. The fibrine and blood-corpuscles, for the most part, disintegrate to fine molecules, and in this state are reabsorbed by the vessels ; as in the thrombus a few white blood-cells may attain a higher development. The coloring matter of the blood which saturates the tissues passes throug-h various, not thoroughly understood metamorphoses with change of color, till it is finally transformed into a permanent coloring matter, which is no longer soluble in the fluids of the body—Jicematoidin. As in the thrombus, this is jiiartly granular, partlj’- crystalline; in a 23ure state it is orange-colored, and if scanty gives the tissue a yellow- ish color, if plentiful a deeji orange hue. JReahsorption of the extravasa- tion almost always takes jrlace in diffuse suggillations, as the blood is very widely distributed through the tissues, and the vessels that have to accomplish the reabsorjr- tion have not been affected by the contusion; it is the most desirable and under favorable circumstances the most frequent result after sub- cutaneous and intermuscular effusions of blood. The case is different in circumscribed effusions, in ecchymoses. Here the first question is as to the extent of the eflusion, then about the state of the vessels surrounding it; the more developed the latter, the less they have been injured by the contusion, the more hope there is of early reabsorption ; but its occurrence is always less constant in large effusions of this variet}% There are various factors which inter- fere with it; in the first iilace, there is thickening of the connective tissue around the eflusion of blood, as around a foreign body (as in traumatic aneurism also), by which the blood is entirely encapsulated ; the fibrine of the effusion is deposited in layers on the inner surface of this sac, the fluid blood remains in the middle. Thus the vessels about the blood-tumor can take up very little fluid, as they are sepa- rated from the fluid part of the blood by layers of fibrine, which are Gninular and crystalline hsematoidin, partly orange, partly ruby-red in color. Magni- fied 4Ul).