PROGRESS OF AMPUTATIONS. 735 is better to have firm wooden legs. Even many from the higher classes, who have been amputated, and have worried over artificial limbs for years, finally resort to wooden legs. Walking with an ar- tificial leg and a wooden one differs so much, that one who has been accustomed to the latter for years can only use the former after very patient trial. Simple as the operations for amputation and exarticulation now seem, we must remember that from Hippocrates to the present time progress has constantly been made in them. That large portions of limbs could be lost without danger to life Avas first taught by their spontaneous detachment by gangrene ; the first amputations were made for the purpose of removing such gangrenous limbs, and the bone was sawed at the line of demarkation. The indications for amputation grew very slowly. What especially retarded the intro- duction of this operation was not knowing how to check the hremor- rhage with certainty ; styptics and the hot iron answered for the leg and forearm, but not elsewhere. Hence the progress of ampu- tations depended on that of the methods for arresting hmmorrhage. The greater amputations were only ventured on after the introduc- tion of the ligature and tourniquet. The method of amputating limbs by strangulating them with, a ligature was first introduced by Guy de Chaidiac and improved by Ploucquet. Of late this method has been tried again by the ecraseur (Chassaif/)iae), the galvano- caustic ( Pon Brims), and the elastic ligature {Bittel), but has met with little popularity. Later surgeons particularly directed their attention to amputating as rapidly as possible, so as to cause the least pain, and to dividing the soft parts so as to avoid conical stumps. Now that we have anesthetics, and can avoid hemor- rhage by the elastic bandage, rapidity in amputations and exarticu- lations is a matter of small moment. Attention is turned to the formation of the stump, and since the beginning of this century to attempts to secure healing by first intention, and especially to the avoidance of any infection from without or from the secretions of the Avound, and to escaping pyremia, the most dangerous enemy of amputations. The latter points noAv chiefly claim our attention, and recent proposed changes in the method of operating all haAm them in view. The first method Avhich Avas used in Celsus's time Avas a circular incision Avith retraction of the skin. This was gradually improved on. .Loicdham (1679) is usually regarded as the originator of tlie single flap, Avhich method was perfected by Verduin (1696). liava- toH and Verrnale are said to have been the first to use tAvo flaps.