TREATMENT. 519 IS tlie state of the patient’s general health. After resection of the joint we hare left a large wound with two sawed edges of bone, which Mull certainly continue to suppurate for weeks, possibl}'’ for months ; there may be suppuration of the subcutaneous tissue, of the sheaths of the tendons, and suppurative periostitis and necrosis of the sawed edges, things which patients may live through, but which al- ways require time and strength. If, then, in badly-nourished, cachec- tic persons, loss of strength should indicate operative interference, amputation is often a more certain remedy for saving life than resec- tion. The surgeon should always think more of saving the life than the limb. We have also to answer the question. Can the patient bear resection, with its sequelm ? It is difficult to give a general an- swer to this question ; even in individual cases a decision may be diffi- cult: we must determine whether the patient is emaciated, anaemic, and debilitated, simply by the drain on his system, or if there be more serious lesions of internal organs; in the latter case amputation would be preferable, if, indeed, any operation would be serviceable. Of course we do not operate on atrophic children vnth disease of several joints, cold abscesses, diarrhoea, aphthae, etc., or on persons with tuberculous cavities in the lungs, or with indurated, fatty liver and spleen, or on old marasmic individuals ; we cannot give any aid to such patients. But a still more important question is. Which opera- tion is less dangerous to life? We cannot give a general answer to this question ; we must separately consider the joints concerning which the question of resection arises. In caries of the shoulder-\o\nt resection is less dangerous than disarticulation of the arm at the shoulder-joint; the same is true of the hip-joint / hip-joint amputa- tions are among the most dangerous in surgery, while in young sub- jects resection is not so very fatal. Hence we are not to think of exarticulation at the shoulder or hip on account of caries; here the only question is. Is tlie general health of the patient such that we should let the disease run its course, or shall we arrest it by resection ? In the most favorable cases of spontaneous cure there will be anchy- losis in a bad position; if recovery takes place after resection, the extremity remains movable at the shoulder or hip joint. These chances speak strongly for resection, especially at the shoulder-joint; here we might decide on resection quite early, even in order to get the patient about soon and in good order. Resection of the hip is open to one grave objection: we cannot resect the acetabulum, which is usually diseased at the same time, or we can only do so imperfectly; hence, Avhen the joint is much diseased, the resection is imperfect; slighter grades of the affection may even recover without operation. In the elbowjoinl the state of affairs is more favorable, perhaps the