464 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. belongs generally to the atonic forms, with slight vascularization. It occurs chiefly in the spongy bones, and readily combines with partial necrosis; in the cheesy pulp which fills the cavity in the bone there are almost always portions of dead bone that have not been dissolved. The vertebrae, the epiphyses of the larger hollow bones, and the cal- caneus, are the most frequent seat of this ostitis interna caseosa. This form is only recogtiizable in a few cases during life; we grad- ually ai-rive at the diagnosis of os- titis interna, but can onl}’- deter- mine its special form in cases where the half-fluid caseous pulp is evacuated through an external opening. Lastly, we must not omit to mention that in rarQ,cases, usually in the vicinity of caseous deposits, true miliary tubercles^ small, at first gray, later cheesy nodules, come in the spongy sub- stance of the epiphyses in the an- Point of caseous degeneration In the spinal i i i , i j • j column of a man. kle-bones and vertebrae and mduce solution of the bone and partial necrosis. A diagnosis of this true bone tuberculosis cannot be cei> tainly made during life, we may onl}' consider it as probable where there is marked tuberculosis of the lungs or larynx. For all forms of ostitis, which induce softening of the bone-sul> stance, R. Volkmann employs the designation rarefying ostitis. I I From the occasional remarks that I have made concerning the diagnosis of chronic periostitis and ostitis, you will have already seen i that, after they have lasted a certain time, their recognition is not generally dillicult, but that it is not always possible to state tlie variety and extent of any given case, llicre are two verj* important factors for the diagnosis in those cases that cannot be examined di* rcctly by the sound, viz., the displacement of the bo7ies, whieh must result, in many parts of the body at least, from their partial solution, and formation of abscesses, Avhich often accompanies it. .1