OPEN EllACTUUES aXD SUrPUlt.\TIOX OF BO\E. 220 fragments takes plane either by reabsorption or by artificial removal outwardly; the former is the more frequent in small, the latter in larg'e sequestra; but union will not result as long as the sequestrum remains betw'een the granulations of the fragments. Since the open- ing at d may be much contracted by the develojjment of external callus, the operative removal of the necrosed ends is often very difli- cult. We find, by examination with the probe, whether such seques- tra in the deeper parts really existed, and if they are detached. If you suppose the sequestrum, a a (Fig. 56), removed from the wound, there is no obstacle to the filling of the wound with granulations and to their subsequent ossification. Such sequestra in complicated frac- tures are frequently the cause, not only of new exacerbations of the acute suppurative inflammation, but also of subacute and chronic peri- ostitis, "with protracted firm oedema of the extremity and annoying eczematous eruptions on the skin, as well as of long-continued bone fistulas and ulcerations of the ends of the fragment. The action oi this sequestrum combines the double effect of a foreign body and that of local or general purulent infection. We may speak here of conditions as they exist in the bone after amputation. Imagine Fig. 56 divided transversely at the point of fracture and the lower half removed, then the condition will be just the same as after amputation. Granulations either grow directly fi’om the wounded surface, or a portion (the saw-ed surface) is necrosed to a greater or less extent (Fig. 57). Let this be as it may, in the medullary cavity, as well as on the outside of the bone, a neoplasia (a half callus) is formed; this subsequently ossifies; if you examine an amputation stump several months old, you will find the medullary space in the stump of the bone closed by osseous deposits, as well as external thickening of the bone. We may here remark that t he name callus is used almost exclusively for the bony new formation in frac- tures, while the young bony formations on the outside occurring in various ways are called “osteophytes” (from dareov, bone, and ^vfxa, tumor); callus and osteophytes are not then very different, but both are designations for young osseous formations. In considering the j^rocess of suppuration, we have left out of con- sideration tw’O of the constituents of bone, namely, the periosteum and medulla. In observing the development of callus, we saw that the periosteum also had something to do Avith the formation of new bone. But, if, in open suppurating fractures, the suppurative inflammation spreads greatly as a result of extensive contusion, a large amount of