GANGRENE. 332 elastic, nor contractile, and hence, partly from the diminished calibre, partly from the lack of contractility, the onward movement of the blood, already moved less forcibly on account of the feeble action of the heart, is very much impeded, so that it is easy to understand how coagulation occurs in such cases, especially in parts distant from the heart. While the cases just described are with some justice termed senile gangrene, and their connection with arterial diseases has been gen- erally recognized since the time of Du2mytren, there is another form of spontaneous gangrene, which occurs in old persons, but is distin- guished from the above, because a large portion of an extremity, as of the leg as high as the calf or the knee, becomes gangrenous at once This takes place as follows: In the chief artery, say the femoral, along the thigh or in the hollow of the knee, a firm clot forms and adheres to the wall of the vessel by rough prominences on the internal coat, due to precedent atheromatous disease, or else forms in sac-like dila- tations of the artery and gradually grows by apposition of new fibrine, so as not only to fill the calibre of the artery, but to plug up the whole peripheral end of the vessel, and even a portion of the central end, by the fibrinous clot. The consequence of this stoppage of the artery by a thrombus developing on the wall, which gradually arrests the col- lateral circulation also, is usually gangrene of the whole foot and part of the leg, which is dry or moist according to the rapidity with which the clot has developed; it is occasionally possible to trace the growth of the thrombus by the spread of the gangrene. Not long since I observed an old man, who was taken into the hospital for spontaneous gangrene of the foot. He was so thin and the arteries were so rigid that the pulsations of the femoral could be distinctly followed into the hollow of the knee. Subsequently the gangrene progressed, and at the same time the pulsation in the lower part of the artery ceased. Aljout a fortnight later, shortly before death, when the gangrene had advanced to the knee-joint, the pulsation had ceased at Poupart’s liga- ment. The autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of complete arterial thrombosis. The gangrenous leg was so completely mummified that I cut it from the body, and, to preserve it from further destruction and worms, varnished it. It is still in the surgical museum at Zurich. Another case of arterial thrombosis is where the primary stoppage of the artery is caused by an embolus. A clot of fibrine, in endocarditis or detached from an aneurismal sac, may become wedged in an artery of one of the extremities ; this induces further deposit of fibrine. Of late, there is a tendency to refer most cases ol softening and desiccation, as of the brain, spleen, etc., to such emboli. In our clinic we saw a very interesting tyjncal case of this variety. Six weeks after confine-