53 UNION OF WOUNDS—IRRITATION. If the disturbance of circulation through the incision be not ex- tensive, it passes off very rapidly; these &o-cai\edi passim hy2Jer(Bmias are not exactly inflammations ; their extent accurately corresponds to the mechanical conditions, while in regular inflammations the redness often extends far beyond the point where the circulation is mechani- cally impaired. We do not call it inflammation till irritation of the tissues accompanies, or in fact arises from, the capillary distention. Such irritations, causing dilatation of the capillaries, are numerous ; we shall here speak only of the mechanical ones. You now see my ocular conjunctiva of a pure bluish white, like that of any normal eye. Now I rub my eye till it weeps, and the conjunctiva becomes reddish ; perhaps with the naked eye you may see some of the larger vessels —with a lens you will also see the finer vessels, full of blood. After five minutes at most, the redness has entirely disappeared. Look at an eye where a small insect has accidentally gotten under the lid, as so often happens ; the person rubs, the eye weeps and becomes quite red; if the insect be removed, in half an hour you will probably see nothing noticeable about the eye. Here you have the simplest obser- vation how vessels dilate on irritation, and empty again soon after the cessation of the irritation. What is the immediate cause of this symptom ? Why do not the vessels contract instead of dilating ? These questions are as difficult to answer as the observation is easy to make, and to repeat innumerable times, with the same result. The fact itself has been known as long as man has observed; the old say- ing “ ubi stimulus ibi affluxus ” refers to this. The increased flow of blood is the answer of the vascular part to the irritation. Of late, the process inducing this redness is called active hy- peroimia or active congestion. Virchow took up the old name, and made and congestion'''’ again popular. Assisted by your knowledge of general pathology, you will now perceive that it is desirable to give a theoretical explanation of symptoms which, through all time, have formed one of the most im- portant objects of consideration in medicine, particularly as the pro- cess of inflammation is always considered as closely allied to this ac- tive congestion, or indeed even considered as always a sequent of the latter. Astley Cooper.^ a celebrated English surgeon, wliose Avoi’ks you will read witli pleasure, when you take up the study of mono- graphs, a thoroughly practical surgeon, begins his lectures on sur- gery in the following words: “ The subject of this evening’s lec- ture is irritation ; which, being the foundation of surgical science, you must carefully study, and clearly understand, before you can expect to know the principles of your profession, or be qualified to practise it creditably to yourselves, or with advantage to those vdio may iflace tljemselves under vour care.”