CAUSES OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 413 terms which at first merely meant that the scrofulous, for instance, were especially predisposed to glandular diseases ; the tuberculous to the development of ulcerating nodules, etc. Subsequently this group- ing was carried further, and it Avas concluded that a certain morbid condition of the physiological processes of the entire body must lie at the root of such predispositions. A morbid material, or essence, a materia peccans, was supposed to exist in the body; the most natural bearer of this was the blood, for this passed through the entire body, and its condition certainly gave a measure for the more or less normal or pathological condition of the entire body. The word dyscrasia (a bad mixture) indicated such a pathological condition of the blood; hence a scrofulous, tuberculous, etc., dyscrasia were spoken of. It is, however, a strange idea to burden the blood alone with the patho- logical changes of the whole body, and assume, as it were, that infec- tion of the whole body resulted from it. This could only be acknowl- edged in cases Avhere an abnormal material Avas introduced into the blood from Avithout, as we have seen to be the case in poisoned wounds. But this is not the case in the dyscrasim under consideration, or at least it is only partially so ; but the morbid dispositions dcA'elojD in the body itself from causes little knoAvn, if they be not handed doAvn as an inheritance from the parents. The blood is- no more absolutely stable than any other tissue of the body ; it is constantly being reneAA’ed, partly used up and again reneAved, etc. ; Ave do not certainly know the source for the rencAval of the blood-corpuscles; you know from physiology that the serum of the blood is constantly being regenerated from the lymph, and this again from the chyle- vessels of the intestines, and you also knoAV that fluid constituents from the blood are excreted by kidneys, lungs, and skin. How little Ave know of these things, and hoAV complicated even these little affairs are ! I lead you to this consideration to add that normal blood can only form from a healthy body, and the reverse ; hence that Ave cannot physiologically speak of a one-sided disease of the blood. But there Avould be no use Avaging war against and ti-ying to root out the Avords dyscrasia and diathesis, now firmlj’’ embedded in medical lan- guage. It Avould do science no harm to use them forever Avith the above meaning; we must have a name for these things, for they are not myths, but are facts that have been observed for centuries, althoufrh their significance has varied greatly. We may go too far in classify- ing persons in this matter, if Ave ascribe to every one a pathological diathesis, or try to place every patient in one of the chief diAusions, Although there might theoretically be a certain amount of correctness in supposing that in our present state of cultivation there Ava-s no such thing as an absolutely healthy man, still, it would be very senseless 28