INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 313 tendon of the quadriceps femoris, and of the bursa poplitea ; to pre- vent this misfortune it was considered advisable to tap the joint with a trocar, in the above stage of the disease, to let out most of the pus, and then carefully close the opening. From my own experience I should consider this operation as rarely indicated, for I have convinced my- self, by careful examinations of patients, and occasionally of the cadaver, that these periarticular abscesses in the cellular tissue, oc- curring in acute synovitis, and also in ostitis of the articular extremi- ties, form separately, and break into the joint late, if they do so at all. With the development of these abscesses the general condition of the patient is usually impaired; he has high fever, with intercur- rent chills, his cheeks fall in, he emaciates, loses his appetite, and becomes sleepless. Quinine and opium finally lose their effect, and, unless you amputate the thigh early enough, the patient dies from the exhausting suppuration and continued fever; perhaps, also, he may have metastatic abscesses. If, by the applications of ice, by one or more incisions for evacuating the pus, by quinine and opium, you suc- ceed in breaking the acute stage of the disease, and making it chronic, you will not obtain a movable joint, but even if it is flexed at a right angle, the leg will be useful; this is the best result that we can gain after days and weeks of anxiety and care, if the inflammation reaches the above grade. The anatomical changes in a knee-joint in this stage of inflammation are as follows: The joint is filled with thick yellow pus, mixed with fibrinous flocculi; the synovial membrane is covered with dense purulent fibrous rinds, under which it is very red and puffy, partly ulcerated ; the cartilage is partly broken down into pulp, partly necrosed and peels off; the bone under it is very red or infiltrated (osteomyelitis ; usually in these cases a secondary, rarely a jirimary disease). The prognosis of this disease is not very bad in young, vigorous persons, when the proper treatment is resorted to early; it is very bad, almost absolutely fatal, in old, decrepit persons. In the above I have pictured to you typical cases of the two forms of synovitis, the serous and parenchymatous (purulent), and am satis- fied that in practice you will readily recognize these pictures again; and you will have no difficulty in applying what has been said of the knee to other joints. Now I must add that there is still another acute or subacute form of articular inflammation, which offers some jieculiarities. I refer to acute articul(ir rheumatism. This very pe- culiar disease, which will be treated of more fully in the lectures on