170 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. far more putrid matter enters the blood. If in anj' case the putrid matter is particularly intense, or very much of it is taken up (es- pecially in diffuse septic inflammations), the fever assumes the charac- ter of so-called putrid fever; the state thus induced is called septi- cemia; we shall hereafter study it more closely. If the suppurative inflammation extends from the wound, there is a corresponding con- tinued inflammatory or suppurative fever ; this has the character of remittent fever with very steep curves and occasional exacerbations, mostly due to progress of the inflammation, or to circumstances that favor the reabsorption of pus. If we call the fever, that often, but not always, accompanies traumatic inflammation, simple traumatic fever^ we may term the fever that occurs later secondary fever f or “ suppurative feverP This may immediately succeed the traumatic fever, if the traumatic inflammation progresses regularly; but the traumatic fever may have ceased entirely, and the wound be already healing, and when new secondary inflammations, of which we have fully treated, attack the wound, they are accompanied by new suppu- rative fever ; in short, inflammation and fever go parallel. Occasion- ally, indeed, the fever ap>pears to precede the secondary inflammation, but this is probably because the first changes in the wound, which may be only slight, have escaped our observation. At aU events, on every accession of fever that we detect, we should at once seek for the new point of inflammation, which may be the cause. I am far from asserting that it is necessary to measure the temperature in all cases of wounds ; undoubtedly any experienced surgeon, accustomed to examine patients, would know the condition of his patient without measuring the temperature, just as an experienced practitioner may diagnose pneumonia without auscultation and percussion ; but no one who understands the significance of bodily temperature doubts that its measurement may sometimes be a very important aid to diagnosis and prognosis. It is with it as with every other aid to observation ; it is uot difficult to detect a dull percussion-sound in the thorax where it should not exist; but the art and science of determining the sig- nificance of this dull percussion-sound in any given case must be learned ; so, too, with measurement of temperature : for instance, we' must learn whether a low temperature in any given case be of good or bad omen. I shall enter into more detail on this subject in tlie clinic. Experience teaches that secondary fever is often more intense than primary traumatic fever. While it is most rare for the latter to begin with a chill (a sliglit chilliness after great loss of blood and severe concussion is not usually accompanied by high temperature), it is not at all so for a secondary fever to commence with severe “chill.”