288 ACUTE NON-TRxiUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT FARTS. which appi-oach the surface as pus-cells, and that the connective-tis- sue layer of the mucous membrane takes no part in the process. Al- though many attempts have been made to find segregation of the cells in the deeper epithelial layers of mucous membranes affected with catarrh, they were unsuccessful till Bemak, Buhl, and Rindfleisch, discovered large mother-cells in the epithelial layers of such mem- branes. Fig. 62. Epithelial layer of a coujunctiva affected with catarrh (after Rindjieisch). Magnified 400 diam- eters. It was most natural to explain this observation by assuming that the mother-cells were formed by endogenous segregation of the pro- toplasm, and subsequently turned out their broods (as lous-cells). Since, in opposition to this view, it was repeatedly shown that, if this were the case, the mother-cells should alwaj’s be found on catar- rhal mucous membranes, while they were found only at first and then in small numbers, of late, they have been explained quite dif- ferently. Steudener and Volkmann first advanced the idea that the young cells do not form in the older ones, but that, under certain me- chanically favorable influences, the latter may enter from Avithout, but have nothing to do with the origin of the catarrh. Although this view is very difficult to prove, after much consideration and weighing of known facts, I consider it as very probable. This is not the place to go into details on the matter, but, since it has been proved by the cinnabar method that the white blood-cells escape from the vessels of the inflamed mucous membrane, and not only wander between the epithelium, but are also found as pus-cells in the catarrhal secretion I should think catarrhal pus had the same origin as other pus, viz. that it came directly from the blood. Besides catarrhal inflammation, mucous membranes are also subject to croiqjoiis and diphtheritic in- flammations. When, in inflammation of a mucous membrane, (he prod- ucts of inflammation (cells and transudation) apjicaring on the sur-