FATE OF THE SEQUESTFvUM. 491 nsually decomposition of tlie medulla; the smell from a large ex- tracted sequestrum is occasionally very penetrating. This decom- posing medullary substance is dangerous as long as no line of demarcation has formed, while the lymphatic vessels of the vicinity are still open; when the proliferation of tissue has occurred in the borders of the bone next the healthy parts, the inflammatory neopla- sia forms a wall through which reabsorption does not readily occur. How are we to recognize a deeply-situated sequestrum? This can only be exactly done by the probe. Through the opening from which the pus flows we pass a probe, as large a one as possible, with which we feel the surface of the sequestrum, which is usually smooth and Arm, more rarely rough and soft. We attempt to slide the probe along it, to determine the length of the sequestrum; we also press the probe firmly against the sequestrum, to find whether it be movable, detached, or whether it be still firm; as you vdll understand, this is important in relation to the question whether we may as yet attempt extraction of the sequestrum. A fiudiher aid to diagnosis is the in- creased thickness of the extremity; we feel the extensive new for- mation of bone; thick yellow, often mucous, pus flows from the openings; the bone is not especially sensitive to pressure; nor is careful probing usually painful, although the patient often dreads it, because some surgeons do it with unnecessary violence, but without any result. The patient is free from fever. From these points you will readily diagnose many cases of ne- crosis ; as long as there are no external openings, the diagnosis of cen- tral necrosis of a bone is liable to error. Caries is almost the only thing for which necrosis can be mistaken; the mode of origin and the locality aid greatly in the distinction, for necrosis occurs more frequently as a result of acute inflammation in the hollow bones {femur^ tibia, humerus), caries usually occurring more slowly in spongy bones; however, the objective symptoms are also difi'erent: in caries there is but little formation of new bone about the ulcer, often none can be felt; in necrosis this is extensive: in caries the pus is thin, bad, serous; in necrosis it is thick, often good, frequently mu- cous : in caries we pass the probe into rotten bone, and probing is usually quite painful; in necrosis the probe generally strikes on the firm sequestrum and is not often painful. From this comparison of the symptoms, which result from the different natures of the two dis- eases, you must acknowledge the possibihty of a diagnosis; in many cases, indeed, it is very easy and simple. In other cases, the anatom- ical conditions arc more dillicult to understand; when necrosis and caries occur together, all the symptoms, except feeling the sequestrum on probing, are in favor of caries. In central caries of the hollow