SUPPURATIVE PERIOSTITIS. 221 periosteum may necrose or suppurate, and in sucli cases we find mde-spread siqjpurative periostitis ^ the greater part of a long bone, as the tibia, may be bathed in jius. The bone thus losing its connec- tion with the soft parts, its supply of blood is withdrawn, and from this cause there may be extensive necrosis of the bone as a result of suppurative periostitis. But these local dangers are slight in com- parison to the dangers to the organism at large from these deep sup- purations ; we shall hereafter treat fully of these. In the same way the medulla either of a long or spongy bone may participate in the suppuration. From what has already been said, you know that, in the course of the normal union of fracture, new bone- tissue forms in the medullary cavity, and closes it for some time. In open, suppurating fractures there is also occasionally suppuration of the medulla, that may extend more or less. Such a suppurative os- teomj-elitis is quite as dangerous, both for the life of the bone and for the entire organism, as suppurative periostitis. From various causes, too, it may asssume a putrid character; the larger veins of the bone, that come from the medulla, may participate in the suppuration, and this disease is the more destructive because of its deep situation; it is often first recognized at the autopsy. Purulent osteomyelitis alone may also lead to partial and even to total necrosis of a bone, the more so when combined with suppurative periostitis. Although it was necessary to make you acquainted with all the above local complications of open fractures, I may say for your relief that they rarely occur so extensively as above described; neither total necrosis of both ends of the fracture, nor extensive purulent perios- titis and osteomyelitis are frequent results of these fracturesbut, for- tunately, healing of the deeper parts often takes place very simply, and suppuration only continues externally. Whether a traumatic inflammation leading to suppuration shall extend beyond the borders of the irritation (of the injury) depends, as in simple contused wounds, on the grade of the local infection by mortifying tissue in the wound, and later on all the circumstances that we have learned as direct or indirect causes of secondary in- flammation of wounds. The greater the shattering of the bone (espe- cially in gunshot-wounds), the greater are all mediate and immediate results of the injury. Now a few words about the general condition of the patient, espe- cially as to fever. While in subcutaneous fractures it is to be regarded as a rarity for a patient to have fever, the reverse is true in open frac- ture. If ever the fever evidently depends on the extent and intensity of the local process, it does so here. As we have already mentioned, in con- tused wounds, every extension of the inflammation is accompanied by