SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. firmly attached to the wall of the vessel, and con- 120 Passing now to tlie consideration of what has taken place in the end of the vessel from the eoagulation of the blood till the firm closure, experiments on animals and accidental observations on man have given the following : the blood-clot at first lying loose in the vessel gradually becomes more stantly grows harder, but still remains red for a long time ; it does not lose its color for weeks or months,, and then does so first in the centre, so that the rest of it still retains a slight yellowish tinge. After the detachment of the ligature, the thrombus is so hard and so firmly attached to the walls of the vessel that the calibre is entirely closed. The preparation (Fig. 24) shows you the thrombus formation in an artery after ligation in the continuity; the lower thrombus reaches to the point of departure of the first branch, the upper one not so far; the former is the rule as laid down in most books, the latter is a , j.- t:>i ■ «• i.1 j. Artery littaled in the not uncommon exception. Plugging of the artery continniiy. Tiirom- by a blood-clot, which becomes firm, is, however, only ^loriep. a provisional state, for the thrombus does not remain so for all future time, but the cicatricial tissue shrinks and atrophies; this takes place in the course of months and years, at which time the closure of the artery at the point of division has become solid by adhesion of the walls of the vessel. If you examine such an artery a few months after the ligation, you find nothing of the thrombus; but the artery termi- nates in a conical point of cicatricial connective tissue. The above changes, which we may follow with the naked eye, show that in the blood-clot there is a change which essentially consists in its increasing firmness and coherence to the wall of the vessel; we shall now study with the microscope on what this transformation of the blood-clot depends. If you examine the recent blood-clot, you find it to consist of red blood-corpuscles, a few colorless blood-cells, and of fine filaments and coagulated fibrine, arranged in irregular net- work. If you take a thrombus two days after the ligation of a small or medium-sized artery, it is firmer than at first, and is broken up witli difficulty; the red blood-cells are little changed, the white ones are greatly Increased; they have sometimes two and three nuclei as jire- viously, sometimes single pale, oval nuclei with nucleoli; some of these cells are almost double the size of white blood-cells. The fine filaments of the fibrine are united to an almost homogeneous mass, which is difficult of division. If you again examine a thrombus six days old, the red blood-cells have almost disappeared, the fibrine is Fio. 24.