CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT TARTS, 418 to the size of the batii, one to three pounds of salt to a warm bath. For a large cluld, sea-baths may be recommended; for weakly chil- dren, warm baths with the addition of malt and aromatic herbs. In fat scrofulous children, JSfiemeyer recommends wrapping the whole body in wet sheets; I have seen good I'esults from this in some cases. Some physicians also recommend sulphur-springs, especially the hot ones, in scrofulous diseases of the joints; so ikr, I have seen more harm than good from them. You see there is no lack of remedies ; still we rarely succeed in imj^roving the constitution b}' them, and can- not prevent relapses in all cases. Sometimes, too, the local process attains such a grade as to be of itself dangerous to life, and the local remedies must be mostly relied on. As before stated, the tendency to these diseases greatly decreases in the course of years; but many children die of the diseases of the bones and joints. 2. The tuberculoKS dyscrasia. Tuberculosis. The name of this disease comes from tiibercidum, the nodule, because chronic inflam- mations due to this disease appear as small nodules, or tubercles, at first scarcely as large as a millet-seed, often microsco]5ic. If you analyze one of these nodules with the microscope, you find it to con- sist of a number of medium-sized, round cells, which increase in the periphery of the nodule, while in its midst the short-lived cells have already broken down to a fine, molecular, dry pulp, which, when the nodule is very large, becomes yellow and caseous. The recent investigations of SchiXppel, Langhans., Rindfleisch, and others agree that large multinucleated masses of protoplasm, so- called giant cells, are often found in the centre of young tubercles ; we shall speak of these further when describing the new formation cf bone. The nuclei in the giant cells of tubercle are often exqui- sitely arranged about the periphery. But these giant cells do not alwavs occur in tubercles. We often see in the peritoneum an in- discriminate grouping of large and small cells as a commencement of tubercle; and near these distinctly round or very irregular but sharply-bounded new formations there are more diffuse (tuberculous) infiltrations, which can scarcely be distinguished from ordinary in- flammatoiy infiltration, except by the fact that the cells are nearly double the size of wandering cells which form the first cellular infil- tration in acute inflammation. A great peculiarity, especially noticed by Rindfleisch, is that tu- bercle often develops on and in tlie walls of small arteries and lym- phatics, but very rai-ely in veiits. There are various views aijout the origin of the cells which form tubercles. If they are w’andering cells, they must enhu’ge very rap- idly soon after thcii’ escape from the capillaries and veins; on the