744 APPENDIX. 15.—P. 297. The abnormal position of extremities after abscesses in muscles have healed is due to formation of cicatrices and their imperfect dis- tensibility. 16.—P. 306. My saying that I could not imagine an acute inflammation of hony tissue has caused some misunderstanding. In acute inflamma- tion of bone no changes are observed in the (fully developed) osseous tissue, but only in the medulla and jjeriosteum and their vessels. I do not underestimate the chemical changes (disturbances of nutri- tion) which go on in the tissues during inflammation ; hut we do not know them : we only conclude they occur from the changes we see in the tissues. We see that inflamed connective tissue swells, becomes cloudy, is infiltrated by wandering cells, softens, and finally breaks down into pus; and all this occurs within a few days. In bony tissue we see none of these changes ; we do not see that it swells in acute inflammation, or that its interspaces (except the Haversian canals) fill with wandering cells ; and Ave know that it does not suddenly break down into pus. We only know one termi- nation of acute inflammation of bone, that is, death—necrosis; be- sides this, it may pass on into chronic inflammation. Hence we can only say it is probable that in acute inflammation of bone changes of nutrition occur, as in that of connective tissue ; but there is, or rather from the nature of bone-tissue there can be, no morphological expression for this change. 17.—P. 316. At the opening of diis chapter I said: “The immediate cause of death of individual parts of the body is always the complete cessa- tion of the supply of nutriment, mostly due to arrest of circulation in the capillaries.” This admits the possibility of gangrene occur- ring in tissues where capillary circulation still continues. Formerly this seemed to me impossible; I could not imagine a dead gangre- nous tissue with capillary circulation. But observations at the bed- side, together with the impressions derived from SamueVs investiga- tions of inflammation, have made it seem to me probable that the inflammatory disturbance of nutrition of which we have spoken occa- siomdly starts up and extends so rapidly that it leads directly to arrest of the vital change of tissue, even before the occurrence of stasis and coagulation in the capillaries; the blood then circulates in