96 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TUE SOFT PARTS. P"'or some time past I have used as the immediate covering of recent wounds merely a moistened thin sheet of gutta-percha, over this a moist compress ; and to prevent the latter from drying, I cover it with some waterproof stuff, such as glazed paper, gutta- percha, or oiled silk, and then cover with plenty of dry wadding (de- prived of fat and made bibulous by cooking in lye). This dressing may be removed without wetting or giving pain ; it is to be retained in place by a bandage or adhesive plaster. For moistening the compresses and the sheet of gutta-percha, which lies directly on the wound, we generally employ liquids which arrest the decomposition of the secretion from the wound and prevent its smelling badhq that is, which are antiseptics and deodorants, and at the same time may destroy any infectious matters clinging to the dressings. In my clinic, for this purpose we employ saturated solution of chloride of lime, aqua plumbi, solutions of carbolic acid, carbolate of soda, and sulphate of soda (10 per cent.). I have not noticed any decided difference in their effect, and on the score of economy use solution of chloride of lime for ordinary dressings. The frequency with which the dressings of a simple Avound should be renewed depends on the amount of secretion. As a general rule, during the first four days the dressing above described should be removed at least twice daily ; if during the first and second days the secretion escapes in a few hours, the dressing should be changed at once. In doing this we no longer need to use a syringe, and to carefully work off the charpie from the wound, while the patient suffers tortures; should it ever be necessary to inject fistulous wounds, of which we shall hereafter speak, we may use either a sim- ple’syringe or an EsmarcJi’s douche, which consists of a cylindrical vessel 25 centimetres high and 12 in diameter, Avith a short tube in- serted at its bottom, on to Avhich a rubber tube with a nozzle is applied; Avhen this vessel is held up by an attendant, it acts as a syringe. It is generally enough to wipe off the Avound with a littlu wadding Avhen changing the dressing, and it is not necessary to remove every trace of pus. In many cases this dressing may be continued for Aveeks, being after a time applied only once daily, and then eA’^ery two or three days; cicatrization goes on and the AVOund heals Avithout doing any thing more. Nevertheless, independent of certain diseases of the granulations, of which Ave shall speak more particularly hereafter, it frequently happens that under a continuance of the same treatment the heal- ing is arrested ; for da3's the process of cicatrization does not ad- vance, and the granulating surface assumes a flabby appearance.