242 INJURIES OF TUE JOINTS. LECTURE XVIII. Simple Dislocations; Traumatic, Congenital, Pathological Luxations, Suhluxations.— Etiology.—Difficulties in Reduction, Treatment; Reduction, After-Treatment.— Habitual Luxations.—Old Luxations, Treatment.—Complicated Luxations.—Con- genital Luxations. SIMPLE DISLOCATIONS. By a dislocation {luxatio), we understand that condition of a joint in which tlie two articular ends are entirely, or for the most part, thrown out of their mutual relations, the articular capsule being gen- erally partly ruptured at the same time ; at least, this is almost always the case in traumatic luxations, i. e., in those that have occurred in a healthy joint as a result of the application of force. Besides these, we distinguish congenital, and spontaneous or pathological luxations. The latter result from gradual ulcerative destruction of the articular extremities and ligaments, since there is no longer the natural oppo- sition to muscular contraction; we shall speak of this hereafter, as it essentially belongs among the results of certain diseases of the joints. At the end of this section we shall say something about congenital luxations. At present w'e shall speak only of traumatic dislocations. V'^e occasionally hear also of suhluxations; by this expression we imply that the articular surfaces have not separated entirely, so that the luxation is incomplete. By complicated luxations we mean those accompanied by fractures of bones, wounds of the skin, or ruptures of large vessels, or nerves, or all of these. You must also observe that it is customary to designate the lower part of the limb as the part luxated ; as for instance at the shoulder-joint, not to sj^eak of a lux- ated scapula, but of dislocation of the humerus; at the knee-joint, not of luxation of the femur, but of the tibia, etc. Dislocations generally are rare injuries; in some joints tliey are so rare that tlie whole number of cases known is scarcely half a dozen. It is said that fractures are eight times as frequent as dislocations; it seems to me that even this is too large a proportion for dislocations. The distribution of luxations among the different joints varies very greatly; let me show you this by some figures: According to Mai- gaigne’s statistics, among 489 dislocations there were 8 of the trunk, 62 of the lower and 419 of the ujjper extremity, and among the lat- ter there were 321 of the shoulder. Hence you see that the shoulder is a very favorite joint for dislocations, which is readily explained by its construction and free mobility. Dislocations are more frequent among men than women, for the same reasons that we have already shown fractures to be more frequent in men.