195 FORMATION OF NEW BONE. It will now be interesting to investigate tlie true origin of the newly-formed bony substance ; is it produced by the bone itself, by the periosteum, by the surrounding soft parts, or is the extravasated blood transformed into bone, as was believed by old observers? Must formation of cartilage always precede that of bone, or is this unnecessary? These questions have received various answers, till quite recently. To the periosteum, especially, great power of pro- ducinff bone has at one time been ascribed, at another denied. In what follows, I will briefly give you the results of my investigations on this subject. The new formation that results from the fracture occurs in the medulla and Haversian canals of the bone, in .the periosteum, and in- filtrated in the adjacent muscles and tendons; possibly the extrava- sated blood may also have something, but very little, to do with the formation of the callus; a large extravasation is disturbing here, as in healing of wounds of the soft parts, for part of it must be organized, while the remainder is absorbed. The inflammatory new formation here, also, at first consists of small round cells, which increase greatly in number, and infiltrate the tissues mentioned, and then almost take their place. Before following the fate of this cell-formation further, I must briefly consider its course in the Haversian canals. The cell-in- filtration in the connective tissue of the medullary cavity ofiers nothing peculiar, except that the fat-cells of the medulla disappear in the mass as the wandering cells take possession of the territory. Suppose the following figure (Fig. 48) to represent the surface, or the fractured surface, of a bone on which, as you know, the Haversian canals open; in these canals lie blood-vessels, surrounded by some connective tissue. If this bony surface be in the vicinity of a fracture, numerous Fiq. 4S. Diagmm nf n lonfiltudliml noction fhrnnpli the corlical snbBtance of a Ion" bono. a. Burface: IInvcrBliin canals, with blood-vesselB and connective tisBue: c. nerioBleuni Wa^ulller 40J dlainctura. “