VARICES AND ANEURISMS. 588 volving the whole artery; then there is no possibility of a collaleral oirculation, either by the direct route or by neighboring branches. The arteries must be very generally diseased, and the coagulation very extensive, to cause gangrene, so that it is not very frequent in aneurism; that would also be very unfortunate for the treatment, which, however, as you will hereafter see, chiefly has for its object the obliteration of the aneurism, with or without ligation of the artery. We now come to the etiology of aneurism. Although atheroma is a very frequent disease of old age, and occurs everywhere, aneurism is by no means confined to old persons. In Zurich, atheroma of the arteries in old persons, and gangrena senilis, are quite frequent, but aneurism of the extremities is rare. The occurrence of aneurism is curiously spread over Europe: in Germany, aneurism of the extrem- ities is rare; it is somewhat more frequent in France and Italy, and most frequent in England. It is difficult to explain this, only it is' certain that diseases of the arteries, in common with rheumatism and gout, are more frequent in England than in any other country of Eu- rope. [During the past five years (1865-1870), of 11,344 cases of disease and injury, in the New-York Hospital, there were 33 cases of aneurism, or about one case to every 344 patients. Of these there ■were: of the thoracic aorta, 6; abdominal aorta, 10; innominate artery, 1; subclavian, 2; iliac, 1; femoral, 4; popliteal, 8; not named, 1.] As regards age (of course we are not speaking of traumatic aneurisms), the disease is rare before the thirtieth year, more frequent between thirty and fort}'- years, and most frequent after the fortieth year; men are more disposed to aneurisms than women. Special causes are little known; popliteal aneurism is most frequent among those in the ex- tremities ; the explanation of this has been sought in the superficial position of the popliteal artery, in the tension to which it is subjected on sudden movements, contusions, etc.; thus this form is said to occur especially often in England in footmen who stand behind the carriages; but I must acknowledge that to me this seems as improbable as the explanation given for chamber-maid’s knee. I am inclined to believe that the tendency to diseases of the artery, as to gout, is due to heredi- tary influence; hard work and free use of liquor are also given as causes ; in England especially, the latter is said to induce relaxation of the walls of the artery, even without atheroma. The diagnosis of an aneurism of the extremities is not difficult, if the examination be careful and the aneurism not too small. There is an elastic, more or less hard, circumscribed (except in false or rup- tured aneurism, which are diffuse) tumor connected with the artery; the tumor pulsates perceptibly to the sight and touch ; on applying the stethoscope, you may hear a pulsating murmur, caused by the frio-