DEALING OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. 161 if once formed, is particularly resistant to such influences. In many places it is a popular remedy to cover ulcers with cow-dung and other dirtv things; this never causes extensive putrefactions on granulating wounds. But if you apply such substances to fresh wounds, and bind them Hrmly on so that the tissue may be mechanically impregnated with putrid matter, they will usually become gangrenous to a certain depth, and then an energetic cell-formation opposes the putrefaction. The reason why decomposing matters act so injuriously on fresh wounds, and so slightly on granulating ones, I consider to be, that they are chiefly absorbed by the lymphatic vessels. If you inject a drachm of putrid fluid into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of a dog, the result will be inflammation, fever, and septicaemia. If you make a large granulating surface on a dog, and dress it daily with charpie soaked in putrid fluid, it will have no decided effect. Certain dis- solved putrid matters may pass through the walls of the veins and capillaries ; but surgical experience teaches that lymphangitis ac- companies poisoned wounds much oftener than phlebitis does. The more the tissue is saturated with fluid, the more it is disposed to decomposition. Hence, the cases where great cedematous swell- ing occurs after contusions are the most dangerous in this respect; but this oedema comes on very readily as the venous circulation is obstructed, from extensive rupture and crushing of the vessels, which indeed often extend far beyond the borders of the wound. Imagine a forearm caught under a stone weighing several hun- dred-weight ; there will probably be only a small skin-wound, but extensive crushing of the muscles, tendons, and fasci£e of the forearm, and mashing and rupture of most of the veins; great oedematous swelling will speedily result, as the blood from the arteries is driven with greater energy into the capillaries, and cannot escape by its cus- tomary passage through the veins, and hence, under the increased pressure, the serum escapes through the capillary walls into the tissue in greater amount. What a tumult in the circulation and in the whole nutrition ! It must soon appear where the blood can still cir- culate, and where not. In the wound, at first, under the influence of the air, decomposition of the parts incapable of living begins ; this advances to the stagnating fluids, and, in unfoi-tunate cases, it con- stantly progresses; the whole extremity swells terribly as far as the shoulder; the skin becomes bright red, tense, painful, covered with vesicles, from the escape of serum from the cutaneous capillaries under the epidermis. These symptoms usually appear with alarming rapidity the third day after the injury. As a result of this disturb- ance of circulation, the whole extremity may become gangrenous; in other cases, only the fasciae, tendons, and some shreds of skin die.