LUPUS. 445 rarely a purely local skin-disease. It is doubtful wlietlier we are jus- tified in claiming a particular lupous dysci’asia, for lupus very often attacks scrofulous persons, so that it may be regarded as one, and one of the worst symptoms of scrofula. It also comes as one symptom of s}^hilis, so that lupus syphiliticus aud lupus scroliilosus are spoken of. Lupus is most frequent during puberty, and attacks females oftener than males; it more rarely develops late in life ; beyond the fortieth year we are pretty safe from it. In the way of treatment I attach most importance to local treat- ment, especially in the ulcerative form, for here we must make every attempt to arrest the progress of destruction, which may endanger all the skin of the face, and internal remedies act very slowly. Here, as in all rapidly-spreading ulcerations, we should radically destroy the base and edges of the ulcer by cauterizing down to the healthy tis- sue. We generally employ the potential cautery and the solid stick of nitrate of silver or caustic potash, pushing them through the lupus into the healthy parts below. We may also use the caustic in the form of paste, such as chloride-of-zinc paste, which is most readily made by mixing chloride of zinc vdth rye or wheat flour, and making it into paste with a few drops of water, then spreading it on the ulcer. To attain our object more rapidly, and let the caustic act more in- tensely, it is advisable to scratch up the floor of the ulcer with the flat end of a probe, and, after arresting the bleeding, apply the caus- tic. Of the remedies above mentioned, I prefer caustic potash, as it unites with the tissues most rapidly, and consequently the pain ceases sooner. This cauterization may be done during anmsthesia, so that when the patient awakes there will be a moderate and tolerable burn- ing. Nitrate of silver causes the most protracted suffering, but has the advantage of liquefying less rapidly than caustic potash, and hence possesses special advantages for cauterizing some portions of the body. When the slough from the cauterization is detached, if the operation was thoroughly done, there is left a good granulating sur- face, which cicatrizes in the ordinary manner. A new lupus is not apt to form in this cicatrix, although cauterization cannot prevent the development of new nodules in the vicinity. Painting with tincture of iodine is the best local remedy in exfoliative and hypertrophic lupus. It is well to mix this remedy with glycerine, to render its ac- tion less intense. I hav^e repeatedly seen lupus nodules shrivel up under this treatment, but it does not prevent relapses. Lastljr, in some cases, the portion of lupous skin may be excised with advan- tage. Tlie only internal remedy from which I have seen benefit is cod-liver oil, of which four to six table-spoonfuls arc to be given daily, but this treatment must be continued for years. Decoctions of barks