VARIETIES OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. 18:7 muscles, the patella, the olecranon, and part of the calcaneus also, may be torn off by muscular action, that is, obliqiaely fractured. The way in which the bones break under these varied applications of force varies, but some types have been formed that you should know. First, we distinguish complete and incomplete fractures. Ineomiolete fractures are again subdivided into fissures, i. e., clefts, cracks ; they are most frequent in the flat bones, but occur also in the long bones, especially as longitudinal fissures accompanying other fractures; the cleft may gape or appear simply as a crack in glass. Infraction, or bending, is a partial fracture, which, as a rule, only occurs in very elastic, soft bones, and especially in rachitic children; you may best imitate this fracture by bending a quill till its concave side breaks in. In children, such infractions of the clavicle are not rare. What we mean by splintering is evident; the most frequent causes are machine-cutters, sabre-strokes, etc. Lastly, the bone may be perforated without entire solution of coiitinuity, as by a punctured wound through the scapula, or a clean shot through the head of the numerus. The latter variety of injury is called 2^ perforated fracture. Complete fractures are subdivided into transverse, oblique, longi- tudinal, dentate, simple, or multiple fractures of the same bone, com- minuted; all of these expressions explain themselves. Lastly, we must mention that persons as old as twenty years may also have a solution of continuity in the epiphyseal cartilages, although this is rare, and the long bones break more readily at some other point. Frequently it is easy to recognize that a bone is broken, and a non-professional person may make the diagnosis with certainty; in other cases the diagnosis may be very difficult, and occasionally can onl}'- be a probable one. Let us take up the symptoms one after another. First, accustom yourself to examine every injured part accurately, and compare it witli healthy parts; this is particularly important in the extremities. ^ ou may not unfrequently know what the injury is by simple ob- servation of the injured extremity. You ask the patient how it hap- pened, having him undressed meantime, or, if this be painful, have his clothes cut off, that you ma)’- accurately examine the injured part. The manner and severity of the injury, tlie weight of any body that has flillen on the part, may indicate about what you have to expect. If you find the extremity crooked, the thigh bent outward, for instance, and swollen, if suggillations appear under the skin, if the patient can- not move the extremity witliout great pain, you may with certainty decide on a fracture ; here you need no further examination to decide on the simple fact of a fracture, it is not necessary to put the patient to any pain on this account; you liave only to examine witli the