ULCERS. 442 possible, deep incisions have been made through the skin around the ulcer, and these incisions have been kept open by the introduction of charpie; I have never seen any great benefit from this treatment. As a consequence of the rigidity also, the new cicatrix is not suffi- ciently dense and readily reopens, so that the ulcer once healed soon develops again. To guard against this it is best to cover the cicatrix with wadding and apply a starch-bandage. This dressing should be worn six or eight weeks, till the cicatrix is firm and Avell organized. I have followed this practice for a long time in all cases of ulcer of the leg, and have every reason to be satisfied with it. 4. Suppurating ulcers. The causes of decomposition taking place on the surface of an ulcer are often due to unfavorable ex- ternal circumstances; but, in other cases, from constitutional causes, there is a tendency to more rapid disintegration of the tissue on the surface of the ulcer. Solution of chloride of lime, pyroligneous acid, turjDentine, spirits of camphor, and carbolic acid, are the remedies to be applied in such cases. If the destruction of tlie tissue go on very rapidly, so that the ulcer enlarges greatly from one day to another, it is called an eating or phagedenic ulcer ; this form closely resembles hospital-gangi’ene above mentioned. In some cases sprinkling pow- dered red precipitate of mercury quickly arrests the disintegration; should it not do so, I would advise not to postpone the destruction of the entire ulcer; free cauterization with caustic potash or the hot iron, destroying the edges of the ulcer down to the healthy tissue, almost always proves effective in these cases. 5. Sinuous and fistulous xdeers—ulcers with excavated edges and fistulm. They always begin as abscesses, Avhich gradually break through from within outward, and are particularly apt to depend on chronic suppuration of lymphatic glands. Such an ulcer will always heal more rapidly if you make an open ulcer of it, by cutting away the edges of skin, which are usually thin and undermined, or, if they are too thick for you to do this, at least split up the cavity and expose the deeply-seated ulcer. This treatment also answers for fistulous ulcers when they lead to abscesses; the latter must heal before the fistula can close firmly. Let me remark, in parenthesis, the word “ fistula ” has still another meaning, as it is api)lied to any tube-like abnormal opening that leads to any cavity of the body; thus we speak of breast, brain, gall-bladder, intestinal, vaginal, urinary, ure- thral, and other fistukc. We have still to consider a very important part of the chapter on ulcers, viz., the etiology. I have already told you that wo have to distinguish local and constitutional causes, just as in chronic inflain-