TREATMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE—STYPTICS. 35 serves as a sac for the charpie. You may also make a ball of cliarpie or linen by wrapping- a string around it, and leave a long string hanging out by which to remove it; as such a tampon may be either too large or too small, I prefer the first method, in which we may fill the linen sac to the extent we desire. If the bleeding come from the poi-tio vaginalis uteri, after an operation, for instance, a more certain way is to hold back the poste- rior wall with a large Sims’s speculum, thus bringing the portio vagi- nalis into view, and press a tampon firmly against the bleeding part; for it requires an incredible quantity of charpie to fill the vagina of a woman who has borne many children, so that no blood can pas.-^ through, and it causes great pain. In profuse bleeding from the nose, which mostly comes from the posterior part of the inferior meatus, and not unfi-equently from the posteriorly-situated cavernous tissue of tlie lower turbinated bone, plugging the nose from the front proves inefficacious and useless; the bV.eding- continues, and the blood either passes into the pharynx or flows out of the other nostril, as the patient presses the velum pen- dulum palati against the wall of the pharynx, and shuts off the upper part of the pharyngeal cavity. Hence, we must be prepared to plug the posterior nares; we may do this by the aid of JBelloe’s sound. This exceeding-ly convenient instrument consists of a canula about six inches long and slightly curved at one end; in the canula is a steel spring of much greater length, with a perforated button-head at one end. You prepare beforehand a thick plug large enoug-h to fill the posterior nares, and have a thread attached to it. (You may make this plug by lay- ing threads of charpie side by side and tying them tightly together in the middle with a silk thread.) You apply this plug by passing the instrument, with retracted spring, through the inferior nasal meatus, then pushing the spring forwai-d till it appeai-s below the velum in the mouth. Pass the thread attached to the plug through the eye in the head of the spring, tie it there, and draw both canula and spring out of the nose ; the thread attached to the latter and the plug fast to this must follow, and if you draw tightly on the thread the plug is pressed firmly into'the posterior nares; if the bleeding be now arrested, as it usu- ally is, if the plug (which should not be long enough for its end to reach the larynx) was not too small, you cut loose the thread, leave the plug in till the next day, then withdraw it by the thread left hanging from the mouth ; tins is usually easily done, as the i^lug is generally covered with mucus and is consequently smooth. As this instrument is not always ;it hand, we may use an elastic catheter or a thin slip of whale- bone for the same purpose, introducing it through the nose, seizing it