525 CHRONIC SEROUS SYNOVITIS. over; in the knee we have also the motion of the patella; it is lifted up by the iluid, and may be readily pressed again into the intercon- dyloid fossa, occasionally with a perceptible sound. As the surfaces of the joint are united by firm ligaments (in the knee by the lateral and crucial ligaments), which are not so easily stretched, the fluid collects chiefly in the mucous bursae adjacent to the joint, and on this account we may often diagnose the swelling as synovitis by simple inspection, especially in the knee-joint, where the bursae under the tendons of the extensors at both sides of the patella, and in the popliteal space, are greatly distended by the fluid; while, on the other hand, in regular swelling of the capsule, the enlargement is regularly round. Sometimes, also, patients with this disease can move their joints quite freely and without pain ; they can often walk quite a distance, and occasionally have so little inconvenience that they do not ask advice of the physician ; even examination of the joint by palpation is painless. Where the dropsy of the joint is considerable, great exertion readily causes fatigue of the limb, as well as pain and increased exudation; however, after resting a while, this passes off, and generally the inconvenience is very slight. The prognosis is good in so far as these di'opsies of the joint lead to nothing further; the fluid may increase enormously, but that is all; unless there be some overstraining or injury, the disease remains the same. As regards recover}', the jjrognosis is most favorable in those cases where the disease remains after an acute or subacute commence- ment; in these cases, as a rule, complete recovery takes place by reabsorption, although it may be slow. On the other hand, those cases where the disease is chronic in its commencement and course are very obstinate, and are often extremely difficult to cure. The treatment consists in the application of the remedies already described, which are to be perseveringly used while the joint is kejDt at perfect rest, viz., tincture of iodine, flying blisters, and compres- sion. The latter is the most eflective remedy, but it must be strong and continued (forced compression, according to Volkmann) ; we may apply firm dressings with moist or elastic bandages; the patient must lie still during the treatment; if there should be any oedema of the leg, it will do no harm, but, if tlie toes grow blue and cold, the band- age must be removed. If the patients will not submit to this treat- ment, we may let them wear a large mercurial plaster, with a snugly- fitting knee-cap of leather with elastic insertions, which prevents too much motion of the joint, and gives the limb more firmness and se- curity in walking. If all this treatment does no good after months or years, or if the improvement has only been temporary, we may still resort to simple tapping, or to tapping, followed by injection of iodine.