ATHEROMA OF THE ARTERIES. 585 arteries, sometimes disintegration and softening, witli consequent dila- tation or aneurism; for, when the media and adventitia become soft- ened to atheroma pulp at some point, the adventitia is no longer sti’ong enough to resist the pressure of the blood, and it bulges. If we now turn to the large arteries, aorta, carotid, subclavian, iliac, and femoral, in which, you know, the muscular coat is reduced to a mini- mum, or is even occasionally wanting, while the intima is composed of a large number of elastic lamellas, and lies almost immediately on the adventitia, which has more or less elastic filaments—here there is least plastic process in the adventitia; the pathological change, the disturbance of nutrition, evinces itself chiefly in rapid breaking doAvn or calcification of the pathological new formation, which occurs partly on the borders of the intima, partly in that coat. As already men- tioned, cases do occur where extensive circumscribed connective-tissue new formations occur in the intima in the form of cartilaginous callosi- ties ; but this is rarer than the change to atheroma-pulp. In the last mentioned arteries true atheroma pulp forms most frequently, hence aneurisms are most frequent in them. If you examine this atheroma- pulp microscopically, besides the above-mentioned molecular and fat granules, you find fat-crystals, especially of cholesterine, and crumbs of carbonate of lime, also hmmatoidin-crystals, which come from blood- clots depositing on the roughnesses in the arteries, but the haematoidin develops from their coloring matter. You have now a general view and description of atheroma in ar- teries of various calibre, and can now understand how, by softening the walls of the vessels, it may lead to partial dilatation of the artery, or aneurism. The form of this dilatation may vary somewhat, accord- ing as the whole periphery of the artery is regularly diseased or not, and as softening or calcification predominates. The dilatation of the artery may for some distance be perfectly regular; this is called aneurysma cylindriforme ; if the aneurism be more spindle-shaped, it is termed aneurysma fusiforme. If the soft- ening be limited to one side of the arterial wall, we have a sac-like dilatation, anemysma saceatum, which may communicate Avith the calibre of the artery by a larger or smaller opening. A further variety in the formation of the aneurism may arise from all the coats regu- larly participating in the formation of the aneurism, or from the intima and media being entirely softened and destroyed, so that only the gradually-thickening adventitia and infiltrated surrounding parts form the sac. Finally, under the last conditions the blood may press in between the media and adventitia, separate the two coats, as if the layers of the artery had been dissected uji anatomically; this is called aneurysma dissecans. These divisions may be carried still furth^'r,