CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 426 the individual remains perfectly well. Gout is a disease of the rich, and, as old physicians who had it tliemselves used to say, of wise men. It occurs chiefly in men who lead a comfortable, inactive life; it not unfrequently descends to the next generation, but always appears first after middle age. Harvey, Sydenham, and many other cele- brated physicians, sufifered from gout. The inflammations occurring in g(fut are chiefly limited to certain joints, and the parts around them. The joint between the metatarsus and the first phalanx of the big toe is affected particularly often; this is the seat of true podagra. The wrist and the joints of the phalanges may also be attacked by gout; here it is called chiragra. The skin over the joint is impli- cated in these inflammations. Duriuo- the attack it becomes bi-ifflit red and very sensitive, as in erysqaelas ; and, in rare cases, ulcers may form during this process. Arterial thickenings (atheroma of the artery), with their occasional results, cerebral apoplexy and senile gangrene, are not unfrequent in arthritic patients. Corpulence, dis- eases of the liver and kidneys, may also accompany gout; gravel, especially a fine granular excretion of uric or oxalic acid from the kidneys into the bladder, is not unfrequent, but, just as frequently, large renal and vesical calculi develop. In the diseased joints and sheaths of the tendons considerable quantities of urates have been seen, occasionally in such quantities that they covered the articular surfaces and capsule like a white granular coating. An attack of gout is usually preceded for some time by a general feeling of being out of sorts, which disappears as soon as the inflammation attacks some external point, usually a joint. These inflammations last two or three weeks, and then subside, often leaving permanent thickening of the joint; but in other cases the diseased limbs often remain un- changed for years. In some old arthritic patients these stone-like gout-nodules are also found in the skin, as in that of the ear, as well as in the joints and sheaths of the tendons. If these nodules break off, the masses of lime and urates may be scooped out with an ear- spoon ; the complete suppuration and closure of these open and very painful gouty nodules then last for months. Operations with the knife in such cases should be carefully avoided. The ordinary attack of podagra never ends in suppuration, always in resolution. From this etiological relation of the abnormal deposits of uric acid to the joint affection, gout has also been called arthritis urica. The treatment of the attack of gout, of the gouty articular in- flammation, is to be distinguished from the general treatment. Tlie former almost always runs a typical course, which is not materially changed by treatment. The lirst indicatioii for medical aid is to al- leviate the pain by moderating the inflammation; for this purpose