DELIRIUM TREMENS, 391 and, lastly, the curare, which is of late occasionally used, has not answered the hopes that some had of it. In t)ie chronic cases you need not employ any special treatment; the patient remains in bed, and should keep perfectly quiet; he should be guarded against all injurious influences, especially from physical or mental excitement. 5. DrunkarcVs madness. Delirium j)Otatorum traumaticum. Delirium tremens.—We now come to an enemy of the wounded which, fortunately, is not very dangerous. You have doubtless heard of delirium tremens, the acute outbreak of chronic alcoholic poisoning, which may come on spontaneously, or from some acute diseases, es- pecially pneumonia. Injuries are a frequent cause. You will become better acquainted with this disease from the lectures on medicine; as the attacks, from whatever cause they arise, are much alike, I shall be very brief on this point. The disease generally breaks out within two days after the injury, in some rare cases it is longer. It only attacks patients who have for years been accustomed to the free use of alcohol, especially of schnaps and rum ; but it is an error to consider beer and wine drinkers exempt from delirium. The first symptoms are sleeplessness, great restless- ness, trembling hands, unsteady look, tossing about in bed, and talka- tiveness, and then delirium. The patients talk constantly, see small animals, midges, flies, etc., swarming about them; mice, rats, mar- tins, foxes, etc., crawl from under their beds; they think they are in a smoky atmosphere, and feel dizzy. The delirium often has the most comical form; a soldier, whom I treated in Zurich for delirium tremens, saw numbers of other soldiers in his water-glass; when I entered the room, he spoke lowly to my assistant, taldng me for his major, etc. Generally the hallucinations are of a happy nature, never- theless, the patients are tormented with restlessness, constantly toss about in bed, and Avish to get up. If we have not two stout nurses to hold these patients, there is often no way of avoiding the applica- tion of a strait-jacket and tying them in bed. These patients are usually good-natured in their delirium, and if spoken to emphatically they give sensible answers, but soon fall back into their wanderings. Of all kinds of injuries, fractures, especially open fractures, most fre- quently give rise to the outbreak of the disease, and, before we had firm dressings for such patients, it was a difficult task to fix the broken limb, as the patients did not notice the pain, and moved the limb so forcibly that any splints were loosened in a few hours. Even where there is marked delirium, the prognosis is not unfavorable, according to most surgeons; from my somewhat meagre observations, I cannot agree in this opinion: of the patients with acute delirium tremens that