204 SIMPLE FRACTURE OF BONES. prepared beforeliand and kept in a Avcll-closed tin box. Here in the hospital, where these plaster-bandages are much used, they are pre- pared two or three times a week. This Ijandage you place in a basin of cold water and let it soak through, then apply it like any roller- bandage to the extremity prepared as above described. Three or at most four thicknesses of this plaster-bandage suffice to give the dress- ing the requisite firmness. In about ten minutes good plaster be- comes stiff enough for us to lay the extremity loose on the bed; in half an hour or an hour, the dressing becomes as hard as stone and quite dry; the time required for hardening depends partly on the quality of the plaster, partly on how much you have moistened the bandage. After many comparisons with other modes of applying the plaster-bandage, I have found this the most practical; but I must mention some modifications of the way of handling the plaster and of the material of the bandage. For instance, we may rub the plaster into the common muslin or flannel bandages, which makes the dress- ing somewhat heavier and firmer ; but this is not necessary and the loose gauze is very much cheaper than muslin-bandage. If the band- age does not appear sufficiently firm, we may apply a layer of plaster- paste over the dressing; this plaster-paste is to be made with water, and spread on the bandage very quickly with the hand or a spoon ; it should not be prepared till we Avish to use it, as it stiffens very quick- ly. The plaster-dressing as made with roller-bandages was first in- troduced by a Dutch surgeon, Mathysen / this method Avas first pub- lished in 1832 ; but it has only become Avell knoAvn since 1850 ; it has been spread through Germany chiefly by the Berlin school. A differ- ent mode of applying the plaster-dressing is by different strips of bandage; Pirogoff first hit on this method from lack of bandages in the army ; all kinds of material were cut into the shape of splints, then draAvn through thin plaster-paste and laid on the broken limb, then the Avhole Avas coated with plaster-paste and a firm capsule Avas thus made. Subsequently the same surgeon made a special metliod of this; he cut old coarse sail-cloth into certain patterns for eacli limb, and applied it in the above manner. Lastly, the so-called many-tailed bandage of Scultetus Avas used in the same Avay as a plaster-bandage. The foundation of the bandage has also been modified in various ways; it has even been used Avithout wadding or any under-bandage;, the Avhole limb being simply covered with oil so that the plaster- bandage, being applied directly, might not adhere to the skin by the fine hah’S. Others have employed thick layers of AAuidding Avithout any under-bandage. Lastly, thin wooden splints or strips of tin haAC been lately used in it, as we shall hereafter see; this may haA'C cei’tain advantages in fenestrated bandages.