SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. IIG stump. From these cells, just as in the embryo during intra-uterine life, new nerve'fibrillae develop upward and tlownwardj the filaments, which are at first very pale, subsequently acquire a sheath, and then cannot be distinguished from ordinary nerve-filaments. The most recent investigations as to the significance of wandering cells in new formation of tis- sue, as well as the special studies over the formation of nerves in portions of tadpoles’ tails regen- erated after iiijurv, have made me doubt the former view', that young regenerated nerve-filaments were composed of spindle- cells. It seems to me much more probable that the divided axis- cylinders grow out in- to young nerve-filaments, and that the elongated spindle-cells, wdiich undoubtedly exist in the nerv'e-callus in certain stages, either belong to the connective tissue of the neurilemma or are detached portions of young nerve-filaments containing nuclei. The last investigations of Neumann and Eichhorst confirm pre- vious ones in regard to the immediate results of division, but show' that the young nerve-filaments grow directly from the axis-cylinder, as w'ell from the central as from the distal part, meet together, and blend, as the offshoots fi'om a capillary wall sink into the wall of another vessel, and so may form a communicating canal betw'een two vessels [Arnold). The process in the wounded nerve corresponds most beautifully with that in wounded muscle. In the muscular as in the nervous filament several young filaments sprout fron. one prinaitive filament [a, Fig, 22 A; compare Fig. 20). So it is shown that muscles, vessels, nerves, and epithelium are not regenerated from proliferating connective-tissue cells or wan- dering cells, but from throwing out offshoots from their tissue, or from cells derived from the protoplasm of their (issue. It is verv probable that connective-tissue cells also, especially those still con- Fig. 21. Fig. 22. I'ejpneration of nervo=. Fi;?. 21. from a i-abbit fifteen days after division ; youmj spindk'-cells in the end of the nerve developed from the connective tissue and intimately connected with the neurilemma. Fi". 22, from the frosr ten weeks after division; development of youngr nerve-cells from the spindle-cells. Mag- nified 800 diameters, after JJj&lt.