296 ACUTE NON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT TARTS. little tised in these inflammations, partly because of the pain it causes in such cases, partly because the remedy is not free from danger, as gangrene may be easily induced by a little too much pressure. If the process be not moderated soon after the employment of tlie above remedies, but all the symptoms increase, we must give up the hope of resolution, and resort to remedies to hasten the suppuration which we cannot avert; the chief of these is the application of moist warmth, especially in the shape of cataplasms. Then, as soon as fluctuation is detected at any point, we do not usually leave the perforation to Na- ture, but divide the skin to give vent to the matter; if the suppuration extends under the skin, we make several openings, at least I prefer this to one very large incision, from the elbow to the hand for instance, because in the latter the skin gapes widely, and takes a long time to heal. If the pus escapes naturally from the openings, great cleanliness is the only thing necessary; this is greatly assisted by local Avarm baths.” While it is a A'ery simple thing to open subcutaneous abscesses, “ oncotomy ” of deep abscesses requires great attention to the anato- my of the locality: for instance, the diagnosis may be very difficult in suppurations deep in the neck, in the pelvis, in the abdominal Avail, etc., and can only be certainly made after a long period of observation; still, partly for the relief of the patient, partly to avoid a spontaneous opening into the abdomeli, perhaps it may be desirable to evacuate the pus early. In such cases Ave must not plunge a bistoury boldly in, but dissect up layer after layer, till Ave reach the fluctuating cover- ing of the abscess; then introduce a probe carefully, and dilate the opening by extending the blades of forceps introduced into it, so as to avoid hiBmorrhage from the deeper parts. Occasionally decompo- sition of the pus in an abscess causes so much gas as to give rise to a tympanitic percussion-sound; after being opened, these putrid abscesses should be syringed out and dressed Avith chlorine-Avater. 4. ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MUSCLES. Idiopathic acute inflammation of muscular substance is' rela- tively rare. It occurs in the muscles of the tongue, in the psoas, pectoral, and gluteal muscles, and in those of the thigh and calf of the leg; the usual termination is in abscess, although resolution has been observed. Metastatic muscular abscesses are veiy frequent in glanders. Regarding the special histological conditions, the in- terstitial connective tissue of the muscles, the perimysium is here, as in traumatic myositis, the chief seat of the purulent infiltration; from the very acute disease, the nuclei of the muscular filaments