ANGIOMATA. 043 riiere is no doubt that occasionally in the course of years these tumors cease to grow, but remain unchanged. But in other cases the growth continues so that tlie tumors, as I once saw on the neck of a boy five years old, may grow almost as large as a man’s fist. Frequently two or three telangiectases occur congenitally, or occur in quick succes- sion, especially on the scalp, more rarely there are six or eight. I have seen two cases of flat congenital plexiform angiomata of the left side of the face, which healed at some iDoints, partly from ulceration, partly from unknown causes; i. e.. cicatricial white spots occmred here and there, where the vessels were obliterated, while in the periphery the proliferation progressed. Cavernous angiomata are rarely congenital, but generally occur in childhood or youth, more rarely later in life. As already remarked, their seat is chiefly in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, more frequent- ly in the face, more rarely on the trunk and extremities. They often occur in large numbers, but in such a way that a certain vas- cular district is to be regarded as the seat of disease, as an arm, a foot, leg, or face, etc. Besides the disfigurement, the symptoms in- duced are a certain weakness of the muscles, and occasionally pain ir. the part affected. The tumors may attain considerable size, and thus especially on the head prove dangerous, the more so, as by further progress they enter and destroy the bone. Some observations that 1 know of show that in these tumors, as a result of thrombosis of the cavernous spaces, there may be atrophy and retrogression (especiallv in the cavernous tumors of the liver); but complete disappearance of the angioma by spontaneous obliteration has not been observed.— Ti'eatment for vascular tumors is very varied. The operations have two different objects: 1. Methods aiming at coagulation of the blood, with consequent obliteration and atrophy of the tumor. Among these are injecting tlie tumor with liquor ferri sesquichlorati; also transfixing them with hot needles, or the galvano-cautery, and drawing a platinum wire through, and subsequently heating it with the galvano-caustic appa- ratus (galvano-caustic setaceum). We must also mention continued compression of tlm tumor and ligation of the afferent artery. Both of the latter have gone out of use, as they have proved entirely worthless. 2. Methods aiming at the removal of the angioma ; (or.) By ligation; in telangiectasis with a broad base this must 1)6 double or multiple. A needle with a double ligature is passed through under the tumor ; one ligature is tied to one side, the other to the other side of the base of the tumor. (S.) In vaccinating on the tumor, so that, when the vaccine scat f'alls, the tumor may bo removed.