CLASSIFICATION OF TUMORS. G17 morphological development of the morbid product, for we can then say that we know at least one important factor of the pathological process. In fact, we know no more about normal development; it will be long before we understand the physiology of the growing foetus. After these considerations, we may not be any more particular about the classification of tumors than we are in the other diseases; we must see that there will be a difference according as we choose etiology, symptomatology, prognosis, or anatomy, as the principle for division. Formerly, surgeons preferred classing tumors according to the prognosis of the individual forms, into malignant and benignant, and adding a few subdivisions according to the appearance or con- sistence of the tumor or the looks of its cut surface. This was enough as long as observations on these subjects were made in the gross, and the surgeon made no great claims in prognosis. But the more accu- rate the observations at the bedside, and the more varied the forms in which the neoplastic tissue ajopeared under the microscope, the more impossible it became to make the anatomical jDeculiarities of tumors agree with the old views of malignancy and benignancy. While now most surgeons and pathological anatomists gave up the idea of letting the prognosis play a part in the classification, and since Johannes ^liXller's works on this subject turned their attention to working out the finer anatomy and developmental layers of the pseudo-plasms, I still made some attempts to retain the clinically- prominent symptoms of benignancy and malignancy in a more en- larged form, as a basis for the classification of tumors, and under these to arrange the modern acquisitions of pathological histology. Either I did not find the correct form and expressions for my ideas, or the task I tried was impossible, for I remained alone with my ideas on this subject, and have abandoned them. Although I am still of the opinion that we should not cease seeking for a physiological (etio- logical-prognostic, clinical), recognition of the process on which the formation of tumors depends, and although I should even now esteem a division of tumors on pli3’siological-genetic principles more highly than one on anatomical-genetic principles (which was Virchow's idea in his wonderful classic work on tumors), still I abandon further at- tempts in this direction, and follow the anatomical principles in clas- sification, passing gradually from tumors formed of simple tissues to those formed of more complicated tissues. Lastly, I must mention that I voluntarily and intentionally limit my lectures to those cases of tumors which, in the commencement of the disease at least, are seated in parts of the body belonging to sur- gery. This limitation is not so important as it seems ; wc may even say that the peculiar course of tumors can only be studied in its