526 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. Usually simple tapping does little good. You pass a fine trocar into the joint alongside of the patella, allow the fluid to flow out slowly, and close the canula a little before it has all escaped, so that no air \ may enter the joint, then cover the wound with adhesive plaster; now paint the joint with tincture of iodine and envelop it with wet bandages or a collodial bandage, and in some cases you may attain a cure ; there will be a rapid collection of serum and some pain in the joint; this new fluid may be completely absorbed. If this operation has done no good, if the fluid collects again to the same amount, and remains unchanged, you may make the tapping followed by injection of iodine. This operation is not free from danger; you perform it as follows: First tap the joint carefully, as above directed, then fill a well-made syringe with a mixture of officinal tincture of iodine and distilled water in equal parts, or, if you wish to be verv careful, one part of tincttire of iodine to two of water; after seeing that there is no air left in the syringe, you may inject from one to two ounces of this mixture, according to the amount of previous distention of the joint; keep the fluid in the joint three to five minutes, according to the pain induced, then let it escape slowly; now carefully close the wound, and make compression, as above described. A new acute serous exudation always results ; this remains stationary about eight days, and is then slowly absorbed, and recovery usually follows. Of course, under such treatment, as after simple ta^Dping, the patient must remain absolutely quiet, for there is always inflammation, and perfect rest is the first requirement in inflamed joints. It is not quite evident why it hajDpens that, when tincture of iodine comes in contact , with a serous membrane which was disposed to excessive secretion, ^ even for a short time, it should have such an influence in altering and V arresting the secretion ; formerly it was thought that after these in- | jections, which were advantageously used in many chronic dropsies '' of serous membranes, there was adhesive inflammation, a union of | the surfaces of the serous sac, and its consequent obliteration ; this is ^ by no means the case, at least after the successful injections of iodine • in hydrops articuli; if such adhesions occurred here, the joint would become stiff. What really occurs is as follows : The iodine is de- . | posited in the surface of the membrane and in the endothelium; it remains here for months, at least, and by its presence ajDpears to pre- vent further secretion. At first there is strong fluxion with serous exudation (acute serous synovitis), but the serum is again absorbed by the still-distended vessels, and subsequently the membrane shrinks to the normal volume by condensation of the connective tissue, wliich subsequently remains more dense. So we may consider the process of cure as analogous to the similar process in the tuuica vaginalis I