61 PLASTIC INFILTRATION. their irritation, as they here do the flaps of the wound? Of late, this cjuestioii has received the following wonderful explanation, 'vihicli ten years ago would have been considered as the fancy of a madman. Cohnheim made the following remarkable observation; he introduced finely-powdered anilin blue into the lymph-sac in the back of a frog, then irritated the animal’s cornea with caustic, and found that numbers of wandering cells (lymph-pus cells) containing anilin gradually col- lected at the cauterized point; hence the conclusion, at an irritated 2)oint white blood-corpiiscles wander from the vessels into the tissue ; these xohite hlood-corpuscles constitute the inflammatory cellular in- flltration. Cohnheim then confirmed, by direct observation on the mesentery of a living frog, the discovery already made by Strieker on the nictitating membrane that had just been removed, that under some circumstances the white blood-cells wander through the walls of the vessels into the tissues, and showed also that this occurred to a still greater extent in dilated capillaries and veins. Although it was afterward shown that an English experimenter, Aug. Waller, had several years previously made similar observations on the mesentery of the toad and the frog’s tongue, the works of the German observers, Strieker, Won Recklinghausen, and Cohnheim, were quite independent of his, and Cohnheim has the undivided honor of having correctly interpreted his observations on inflam- mation, which have constantly advanced to the present time, and of having presented them in a form to greatly affect all modern pathologv. It is difficult for you, gentlemen, to imagine the immense impression made on all histology by these new discoveries, which I have just imparted to you as simple facts, because you are not acquainted with the former point of view from which the origin of inflammatory new formations, and that of complicated organized growths, was regarded. From previous observation, our idea of the affair was about as follows: It was supposed that the cells of the connective tissue, of which only one variety, the fixed, was known, increased greatly by division as a result of irritation, and cellular inHltration thus resulted. Imagine yourselves back a few years, in a time when nothing was known of the vital peculiarities of young cells, of their amoeboid and locomotor ac- tion, and w^e only knew how to deduce the course of the pathological process from various stages of the diseased but not dead tissues, as is still the case in the normally-developing layer ; then you wdll readily understand that it was decided without hesitation that the cells l}dng packed together in the inflamed tissue were formed out of one an- other. Even this was a great advance, which was only possible after the overthrow of the generatio cequivoca ; for, not long before, the