GUNSHOT-WOUNDS. 258 of tlie bullet. In this respect, the encircling of the skull and thorax is most peculiar: for instance, a bullet strikes the sternum obliquely, but without sufficient force to perforate this bone; the bullet may run along a rib under the skin to the side of the thorax, or even to the spinal column, before escaping again; from the position of the points of entry and exit, we might suppose the bullet had passed directly through the chest, and be greatly astonished when such patients come, without any difficulty of breathing, to have their wound dressed. The complication of gunshot-wounds with burns by powder, such as results from shooting at close quarters, rarely occurs in war. It is not rare in cases of accidents from careless liandling or bursting of fire-arms, or flora blasting, and may cause the greatest variety of burn. Tlie burnt particles of powder often enter the skin and lieal there, giving it a bluish-black appearance for the rest of life. More of this in the chapter on burns. , In gunshot injuries, there is said to be scarcely any pain; the rapidity of the injury is such that the patient only feels a blow on the side from which the bullet comes, and does not for some time perceive the bleeding wound and actual pain. There are numerous examples where combatants have received a shot, especially in the upper ex- tremity, without knowing it till told by some one, or having their attention attracted by the flow’ of blood. In gunshot, as in contused wounds, the bleeding is usually less ^han in incised and jmnctured wounds; but it would be a great mis- take to sujjpose that arteries which have been shot through do not bleed. On the contrary, many soldiers never leave the battle-field, having died from rapid hmmoiThage from large arteries. When one has seen a fully-divided carotid, subclavian, or femoral artery bleed, he will know that in a very short time the loss of blood will be so great that the only hope of safety lies in immediate aid; so that a lucmorrha2:e of two minutes’ duration from one of these arteries is certainly fatal. But arteries, even as large as the radial, often bleed but little. The first surgeons who gave us descriptions of gunshot- wounds called attention to this point. Before passing to the treatment of gunshot-wounds, I would briefly picture to you the transportation of and first aid offered to the wounded in battle. For the first aid there are usually established certain temporary places for dressing the wounded, in some sheltered place close behind the line of battle, usually in rear of the batteries ; these arc designated by white flags. The wounded arc first brought to this spot, either by soldiers or by a trained ambulance corjjs. Of course, those wounded slightly or in the upper extremities walk to the