GENERAL REMARKS ABOUT TUMORS. 697 of view, could be easily labelled, ready to be placed away in a museum. The simple numerical hypertrophies and hyperplasias, al- though in some cases difficult to distinguish, are at least theoretically separable; the same way with those new formations which do not consist of similar, well-formed tissue-elements; a connective-tissue tumor occurring in connective tissue would always be termed homoeo- plastic; found in bone, brain, or the liver, it would be termed hetero- plastic, etc. Well-developed alveolar cancerous tissue also usually presents no difficulty of classification, for it does not normally occur in any part of the body, it is everywhere heterologous. But what shall we say of the neoplasim which have no fully-developed normal or entirely abnormal form of tissue, but consist of elements that can- not be found elsewhere ; what becomes of them ? or, can any thing develop from them (indifferent formative cells, primary-cell tissue, granulation-tumors) ? and where shall we place those neoplasioe which are not completed tissue, but are evidently normal tissue in the stage of development ? According to the above definition of heterology and homology, inflammatory new formation is at first heterologous every- where; but the connective-tissue cicatrix developing from it subse- quently becomes a homologous neoplasia in connective tissue; in mus- cle it almost always remains heterologous, the same way in the brain and in the bones, if it does not ossify. You see that here parts, which from their nature and mode of origin naturally belong together, are sundered by the anatomical nomenclature. But let us leave in- flammatory neoplasioe out of the question. Every tumor resulting from indifferent formative cells must exhibit a series of stages of de- velopment, if the cells are transformed to one or several sorts of tis- sue. Wherever they are grouped together, indifferent formative cells are heterologous; if a neoplasia show only such elements, we will let it pass for heterologous; but if it appear that a number of these cells have been transformed into spindle-cells, tlie question arises. Where does this neoplasia belong ? Spindle-cells collected in groups are heteroplastic in all parts of the body; but these cells occur in foetal connective tissue, foetal muscles, and foetal nerves ; what would finally become of the spindle-cells of this tumor ? if found in muscles, should not this tumor still be called homologous ? On this point we can only decide arbitrarily; you may look at it from different points of view. Now, what shall we do with tumors that contain the most different complete and incomplete tissues ? I will stop here, to avoid makino- you skeptical; it is mj^duty to help you learn, not to throw obstacles in your way. As the enlargement of the individual elements (simple hyper- trophy) cannot be observ^ed, and the increase of the elements from