197 FORMATION OF CALLUS. bone and cause its atrophy. Virchow and others believe that these protuberances correspond to the nutrient territory of certain bone- cells, which in this process aid in reabsorption of the bone. I think I have refuted this, by showing tliat even dead portions of bone and ivory are also affected by the inflammatory new formation ; we shall speak more of this when treating of pseudarthrosis. At present it is not known how the lime-salts are dissolved in this process ; I think nrobably the new formation in the bone develops lactic acid, which changes the carbonate and phosphate of lime into soluble lactate of lime, and that this is taken up and removed by the vessels ; but this is only hypothesis. It would also be possible for the organic basis of the bone, the so-called osseous cartilage, to be first dissolved by the inflammatory neoplasia, and then there would be a breaking-down of the chalky substance, whose molecules would be subsequently re- moved, even if undissolved. Although I have conversed with many chemists and physiologists on this point, none of them have given me a simple explanation of this process, nor could they indicate any mode of experimenting that might aid in solving the question. In the above diagrams, if we suppose the fractured surface where there is no periosteum, in place of the surface of the bone, you will understand how the new formation (the young callus) grows from it out of the Haversian canals as above described, similar neoplasia from the other fragment meets and unites with it, as in healing of the soft parts. It is evident that the bone through which the inflam- matory neoplasia thus grows must become porous, from the reabsorp- tion that takes place on the walls of the canal; if you macerate a bone in this stage, till the young neoplasia decomposes, the dry bone will appear rough, porous, gnawed, while young bone-substance is deposited on it and in its medullary cavity. I must again repeat that in drawings and descriptions we have, for the sake of clearness, made the callous formation appear much more extensive than it really is, and that here, as in wounds of the soft parts, the regenerative processes do not usually extend very far or very deep, but are merely enough for healing, rarely in excess. In this whole explanation we have not mentioned the bone-cells or stellate bone-corpuscles; I ani convinced that they have as little to do with these processes as the fixed connective-tissue cells, and that the bone-substance, like the soft parts, is dissolved by a certain amount of inflammation, and replaced by new. So far we only know the neoplasia in the state where it consists essentially of cells and vessels, as the soft parts do under the same circumstances; if there was retrogression to a connective-tissue cica- trix here as there is there, we should Imye no solid bone formed, but a