SIMPLE FRACTURES OF BONES. 186 is a better physician than surgeon. Of course, fractures of the bones may occur at any age, but they are most frequent between the ages of twenty-five and sixty years, for the following reasons: The bones of children are still pliable, and hence do not break so easily; if a child falls, it does not fall heavily. Old people have, as is commonly remarked, brittle, friable bones ; or, anatomically expressed, in old age the medullary cavity grows larger, the cortical substance thinner; but old persons are less in danger of fractures of the bones, because their lack of strength prevents their doing hard and dangerous work. It is during the age when men are most exposed to hard work that injuries generally and fractures especially are most liable to occur. The less frequency of fractures among women is due to the variety of their occupation. It is also due entirely to external circumstances that the long bones of the extremities, especially of the right side, break more frequently than those of the trunk. It is evident that diseased bones, which are already weak, break more easily than healthy ones; hence certain diseases of the bones greatl}'- predispose to fractures, especially the so-called English disease, “ rickets,” which is due to deficient de- posit of lime-salts in the bones, and only occurs in children; also softening of the bones or “ osteomalacia,” which depends on ab- normal dilatation of the medullary cavity, and thinning of the cor- tical substance, and which is, to a great extent, accompanied by a “ fi'agilitas ossium,” and even by total softness and flexibility of the bones. As special causes of fractures, we have the two follo'wing : 1. Tlie action of external forces, the most frequent cause'; this action may vary in the following ways: the force—for instance, a blow or kick— meets the bone directly^ so that it is crushed or broken ; or the bone, especially a long bone, is bent more than its elasticity permits, and breaks like a stick that is bent too much; here the force acts indi- rectly on the point of fracture. In the mechanism of the latter variety', instead of the single hollow bone, you may consider a whole extremity or the entire spinal column as a stick, flexible to a certain extent, and on this supposition found your idea of the indirect action of the force. Let us have a couple of examples to explain this: If a heavy body falls on a forearm at rest, the bones are broken by direct force; if a person falls on the shoulder, and the clavicle is broken obliquely through the middle, this is the result of indirect force. In botli cases there is usu- ally contusion of the soft parts ; but in the latter case it is more or less removed from the point of fracture ; in the former at that point, which evidently is to be regarded as less favorable.'' 2. Muscular action may, though rarely, be the cause of fracture. As I already indicated, when speaking of the subcutaneous rupture of