3V0 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. fluids with coccus and bacteria, and which died of septic poisoning ; nor could I find them some hours after death. Hence, it seems as if coccus and bacteria not only could n<-t grow in living blood, but soon disappeared from it. According to these observations, it is not justifiable to suppose that septicaemia is a haernatozymotic process due to organisms, Avhich, from analogy with fermentation, must be based on an enormous vegetative energy of the vegetable ferment. Numerous investigations on these highly interesting scientific ques- tions have failed to give a full explanation. From the works of ^l. Hiller and E. Anders, it seems certain that the putrid poison ad- heres not only to the microscopic organisms, but is found also dis- solved in the poisonous fluids, although not so constantly. Particu- larly interesting are the experiments of A. Hiller, in which the blood of a rabbit which was killed by putrid fluid free from bacteria killed another rabbit into which it was injected, and increased in poison- ous effect with each succeeding injection. According to previous views, this could only be explained by the presence of a constantly renewing and increasing inanimate ferment. When Havaine first published the same experiments made with fluids containing bac- teria, and they were confirmed by StrieJeer, it was considered almost certain that the results were only explicable by a living ferment; now this view is rendered less imperative by the above exjDeriments of Hiller. At all events, in future investigations more attention must be directed to distinguishing “ septogenous ferment ” from “ septic poison,” the final product of fermentation ; this may cost much labor. It is very possible that in some animals the septoge- nous ferment may at the same time be a septic poison. After these general observations, we shall consider those surgical cases that give rise to septic infection. First come the cases nhere there is decomposition on recent wounds ; it usually appears within the first three da}'^3 whether in such cases there will be intense, un- usual, local, and general infection. If the local infection merely ev ince itself in moderate inflammation, which soon leads to circumscribed suppuration, if the general infection be lollowed by moderate lever, the affection would come under the head of traumatic fever. But if the local infection be very extensive, with phlegmonous inflammation and putrefaction, and the general condition assume a character soon to be de.scribed, we call the state septicaemia. In other cases the re- absorption of putrid matter takes place from a traumatic or idiopathic extensive gangrenous spot (as from gangrene due to disease of the arteries) ; this is more frequently the case in moist than in dry gan- grene. In the same way the requirements for the rcabsorption of putrid substances exist, if after delivery the placental surface of the