155 H.'EMORKnAGE FROM CONTUSED WOUNDS. / I should have preferred postponing the operation till the following day, if, in spite of ligature and tourniquet, with the strengthening ol the heart’s beat, there had not been some bleeding from the Avound, so that I feared the patient might bleed to death during the night. Hence, with the able help of my assistants, I exarticulated the thigh as rapidly as possible. During the operation the absolute loss of blood was not great, but it was too much for the already-debilitated patient. At first all seemed to go well; the spirting vessels Avere all ligated, the wound cleansed, and the patient placed in bed; soon he suffered from restlessness and dyspnoea, Avhich increased, finally con- A'ulsions occurred, and the patient expired tAvo hours after the opera- tion. Examination of the femoral artery of the crushed extremity shoAved the following: In the upper third of the thigh there Avas a crushed and torn part, comprising about one-third the calibre of the artery. The tags of the tunica iutima, as Avell as the other coats of vessel, and the connective tissue of the sheath, had rolled up into the calibre of the artery, and the blood could only escape slowly; the surrounding tissue Avas completely saturated Avith blood. In this case, no clot had formed in the artery, as the escape of blood Avas still too free to permit this ; but, if you imagine that the contusion had affected the entire circumference of the artery, you may understand Iioaa^ the tags of the coats of the vessel pressing into its calibre from all sides might haA^e rendered the escape of the blood more difficult, or even impossible ; then a thrombus Avould have formed, and stopped the vessel, and gradually have become organized, so as to cause permanent closure, just as after ligation. If no liEemorrhage had followed the partial crushing of the artery in this case, if, for instance, the crushing had occurred Avithout an external Avound, possibly a clot would simply have formed at the part roxighened by the contusion, a thrombus forming from the Avail; in this case there might haA^e been crushing of the artery Avith preservation of its calibre, a result that is said to have been observed. If you apply the above-described condition of a large crushed ar- tery to smaller arteries, you will understand hoAV there may here more readily be complete spontaneous plugging of the calibre of the vessels partly by in-rolling of the fragile, torn tunica intima, partly by con- traction of the tunica muscularis and by the tags of the ad\-entitia, and that consequently bleeding may fail almost entirely in such con- tused Avounds. Observation of this led a French surgeon, Ghassaigiiac, to im-ent an instrument for crushing off' portions of the body; he terms this operation tcrasement, the instrument he calls an ecrasevr. It con- sists of a strong metallic ligature, composed of small links, Avhich