339 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. I LOCAL DISEASES WHICH MAY ACCOMPANY WOUNDS AND OTHER POINTS OF INFLAMMATION. 1. For the sake of completeness, we here mention again progres- sive suppurative and sanio-purulent diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue. Putrid matters which form on fresh wounds from gangrene of the surfaces of the wound, and may difiuse rapidly in the meshes of the cellular tissue, occasionally cause, on the second, third, or fourth day, those forms of inflammation of the cellular tissue that are char- acterized by rapid decomposition of the inflammatory product and by rapid extension. If the patient survives the demarkation of such a phlegmon, the process always ends with necrosis of the infiltrated cellular tissue and panniculus adiposus. The same thing occurs in fibrinous (diphtheritic) phlegmon. Both processes are usually ac- companied by severe constitutional symptoms. If suppuration has already begun, as long as tlie wound is open, phlegmonous inflam- mation may spread around the wound from mechanical irrilation, foreign bodies, great congestion, retention and decomjDosition of pus in the recesses of the wound, or infection of the wound with phlogogenous substances of various sorts (Lecture XXI.). 2. Hosjiital Gangrene^ Gangrcena Nosocomialis; Pourriture des Hopitaux.—I will first describe the disease, then add a few remarks about the etiology. At a certain time we notice, especially in hos- pitals, that a number of Avounds, as Avell those from recent operations as those that were granulating and cicatrizing, without known cause, become diseased in a peculiar manner. In some cases the granulat- ing surface changes partially or entirely to a yellow smeary pulp, which may be washed off from the surface, but more deeply it is firmly adherent. This metamorphosis extends not only to the granu- lating surface, but to the surrounding skin which was previously healthy, Avhich becomes rosy-red ; this also assumes a smeary yel- lowish-gray color, and in from three to six days the surface of the original wound almost doubles. The increase in depth is less in the so-called form of hospital gangrene. In other cases a fresh wound, or a granulating surface, rapidly assumes a crater shai^e, excretes a sero-putrid fluid, after the removal of which tlie tissues lie exposed. The surrounding skin is slightly reddened. The progress of this molecular disintegration to thin ichor is usually in sharjily-cut circles, so that the Avoimd may acquire a horseshoe or trefoil shape. This ulcerous form of hospital gangrene progresses more rapidly than the pulpous, and extends with esjDccial rapidity in depth. Although both of the above forms occasionally occur separately, they are also seen in combination. I have seen the ])ulpous form oftener than the ulcerous, but acknowledge that ni}’- individual experi- ence of diphtheria of wounds is based on a small number of ob-