392 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 1 have treated, at least the half have died ; they often declined suddenly, became unconscious, and soon died. Others recovered, especially when it was possible to make them sleep a while; this is the object of the treatment; opium in large doses is the almost universal remedy, for it we may substitute small doses of tartar-emetic. After this the patients fall into a comatose state, from which in favorable cases they awake cured, but sometimes sleep on till death. I can recommend no better remedy than opium in delirium tremens, although I must ac- knowledge that in large doses (gr. ii.—vi. every two hours till sleep is induced), I do not consider it free from danger [of late, hy'drate of chloral, in doses of gr. xx.— 3 i, is said to have been given with great benefit in such cases ; it is claimed that it acts well not only on the delirium tremens, but on the fever which so often accompanies the in- jury]. Of late, there has been a great outcry in England against the opium and tartar-emetic treatment, and a more expectant treatment has been recommended. Others have had good results from digitalis ; most surgeons are well satisfied with the opium-treatment, and the coincident administration of strong wine and cognac has been highly recommended. The more chronic cases of delirium potatorum, with- out maniacal attacks, have seemed to me of more favorable prognosis; there, strong grog is useful; I give the following mixture: one yolk of egg, one ounce of arrack, four ounces of water, two ounces of sugar; this does not taste badly, and may also be used as a stimulant for old persons (a tablespoonful every two hours). I must warn you against abstracting blood, which is very dangerous in drunkards, and not un- frecpiently induces collapse terminating in death. Autopsy of patients who have died of delirium tremens shows no special cause of death; we find the changes common to topers; chronic gastric catarrh, fatty liver, Bright’s kidneys, thickening of the meninges of the brain, but no constant changes in the brain-substance proper. 6. Delirium, nervosum and psychical disturbances after injury.— By delirium nervosum traumatiaum Ave mean a state of excessive nervous exaltation without fever, occurring after injury; this is said particularly to afl’eot hysterical persons. I liaA-e only seen one case to which I could apply this name: a man twenty-four years old (from Canton Thurgau, the land of peiTy), who had neA^er been accustomed to drinking, after a fracture of the leg, complicated AAuth a slight VA'Ound, soon had delirium Avithout fever, like an old toper; the fan- cies referred to the same subjects as in delirium potatorum, passed off under quieting treatment and opium, Avithout maniacal attacks; after four days the delirium ceased, and the patient remained reason- able. Lastly, I must mention those rare and interesting cases Avhere,