641 ANGIOMATA. the corpus cavernosum penis, we might draw some definite conclusions from them, on account of the great analogy of the two tissues. The three chief hypotheses about the development of cavernous tumors are as follows : 1. It is asserted that the cavernous spaces first develop from the connective-tissue, and secondarily become connected with the vessels; and it has even been suggested that blood might be de- veloped outside of the circulation, from the derivatives of the connec- tive-tissue cells; the strim of the mesh-work would increase by inde- pendent growth, by sprouting, and club-shaped growth of the connec- tive tissue {Roldtansky). This hypothesis, especially the formation of blood outside of the circulation, has some objections. 2. It is asserted that circumscribed dilatations of small veins occur close to- gether, and that at the points where they come in contact the walls are gradually thinned or entirely disappear. This view is supported by the fact that these gradual distentions of the veins may occasion- ally be distinctly followed out both in the cutis and bones when these tumors are developing, 3. Mindjleisch claims that vascular ectasia, especially in the cavernous tumors which form in the orbital fat, is always preceded by infiltration of the tissues with small cells, which is followed by a sort of cicatricial shrinking of the tissue, and conse- quent tearing apart of the vessels, whose calibre must constantly be increased by continued atroirhy of the intermediate tissue. For some reasons I have long supposed that both in plexiform and cavernous angiomata there was some process similar to inflammation, but neither the latter (scarcely applicable to the cavernous tumors in bones) nor the former two hypotheses appear to fully explain the causes and peculiar difierences in the distention of the vessels. We have still to mention one cliflFerence between cavernous tumors: they are either connected with the large venous trunks, as sacs to the sub- cutaneous veins, or numerous small arteries and veins sink into the capsule of the cavernous tissue. Lastly we must mention that these cavernous venous ectasiae may occur accidentally in other tumors as in fibroma and lipoma, as has already been mentioned. A few years since I extirpated a lobular lipoma, which had formed below the scapula of a vigorous young man, all of the lobes of which had centrally degenerated to cavernous tissue. Cavernous angiomata de- velop with especial frequency in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, more rarely in the cutis and muscles, very rarely in bones, but quite often in the liver, particularly on its surface, occasionally also in the spleen and kidneys. They are sometimes quite painful, other cases are not at all so. The diagnosis of cavernous angiomata is not always easy; when they occur in the cutis, they may be mistaken for more deeply-seated