TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY FEVER. 363 suppose it to exist where we find elevation of temperature of the blood, but must then add that there are cases of severe general, accidental traumatic and inflammatory diseases which run their course Avithout fever. But there is another common factor of these general diseases that Ave should bear in mind, viz., that they are all due to reabsorption of matters that form in the Avounds or the parts around them, or (what is about the same thing) in a point of inflammation. On this point Ave agree with the present AueAVS, as far as concerns traumatic fever, in- flammatory fever, pyaemia, and septicaemia, less so perhajDS as regards tetanus, delirium potatorum, delirium nervosum, and acute mania. But many imjjortant reasons favor the view of the latter diseases be- ing also of humoral origin; hence I shall make no further divisions among the above diseases. 1. Traumatic and Inflammatory Fever.—It has been already explained (page 92) that the fever appearing in Avounded patients is partly due to the blood taking up materials resulting from decompo- sition of mortified tissue on the substance of the Avound, partly to the absorption of materials formed by the traumatic or accidental inflam- mation ; hence, in the latter case, the nature of the traumatic and inflammatory fever is perfectly obscure. On this supposition, which Ave previously tried briefly to jerove, it Avill depend partly on the local advantages for reabsorption, partly on the quality and quantity of pyrogenous material in question, how great the poisoning AviU prove. There are cases Avhere the vessels opened by the injurj'- close so rap- idly, and the Avhole traumatic inflammation terminates so quicldy, that there is no general infection or fcA^er at first, and they may not occur at all; such cases are rare in extensive injuries, they are the ideal of the normal course; in them the plastic infiltration on the edges of the Avound leads quickly and throughout the Avound to solid organized neAV formations, growing firmly in the edges of the AAmund, and pass- ing on to cicatrization immediately or after precedent granulation. If Ave assume this case as a normal t}rpe, every traumatic fever is a pathological accident. We must acknoAvledge this in theory, but in the great majority of cases, in Avounds of any size, fever occurs sooner t)r later; hence Ave considei’ed it advisable to treat of traumatic fcAmr in the previous description of the general condition of the Avounded pa- tient. We have still, hoAvever, to add something to what Avas then said, Avhich at that time it Avould have been difficult for you to under- stand. Let us first speak of the period at Avhich traumatic fcAmr usually appears, and of its course. In many cases, especially Avhere the injury has affected tissues previously healthy, the fever docs not begin till the second day, increases rapidly, and, with evening remis-