166 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. turns out badly. In a few days the strongest man may become a corpse. Some time since such a case occurred in Zarich, in a fellow- student with a wound of the head; it may serve you as a warning example. The young man received a blow over the left vertex; the bone was injured very superficially; the wound healed quickly by first intention; only a small spot continued to suppurate. As the patient felt quite well, he paid no attention to the little wound, and went about as it perfectly well. Suddenly, in the fourth week, after a walk, he had severe headache and lever. The following dav there was about a teaspoonful of pus collected under the cicatrix, wdiich was evacuated by an incision. This did not have the desired beneficial effect on the general condition; the fever remained the same. In the evening delirium began, then sopor. The fourth day the previously vigorous manwms dead. It was easy to diagnose that there had been suppurative meningitis. This was proved on autopsy. Although at the s])ot, as big as a pea, where slight suppuration had been so long kept up, the bone was but slightly discolored by purulent infiltration, still the suppuration on, in, and under the dura mater was greatest at the part exactly corresjDonding to this point; so that the new inflam- mation undoubtedly started from the wound. A short time since, here iu Vienna, in private practice, I saw a jaerfectlj' similar case, also fatal, in a man who several weeks previously had received an appar- ently insignificant wound, from a piece of a soda-water bottle that burst, at the upper part of the forehead, along the margin of the hairy scaljj. Tlie inflammations occurring under such circumstances, as already remarked, are usually of a difl'usely purulent character, but other forms accompany it, or occur sj^ontaneously, such as diphtheritic in- flammation of the granulations [traumatic diphtheria, hosp>ital gan- grene), inflammation of the lymphatic trunks {}.ymphangiti&), and a specific form of capillary lymphangitis of the skin, erysipelas or ery- sipelatous inflammation ; and, lastly, inflammation of the veins [p>hle- hitis). Not infi'equently all of these processes may be seen mixed together. We shall hereafter study these diseases more accurately, under accidental traumatic diseases. But here we must consider the causes of these secondary inflammations, before passing to the treat- ment of contused w’ounds; and, in so doing, wo must anticipate somew’hat. All of these forms of inflammation, and their reflex action on the organism, are so intertwined, that it is impossible to speak of one without mentioning the oilier. As causes of secondary inflammations in and around suppurating vf-ounds that have begun to heal, w'e may mention the following : 1. Excessive flow of blood to the wound, such as may be induced bv too