NEEDLE WOUNDS. 131 slight that tlie patients rarely have any decided sensation of it; in- deed, they often cannot say whether the needle has really entered, and where it is. And in the soft parts this body usually induces no external symptoms, but may be carried in the body for months, years, or even a lifetime, without trouble, if it do not enter a nerve. The needle rarely remains stationary at the point where it entered, but wanders about; it is shoved along to other parts of the body by con- traction of the muscles, and thus may come to liglit a long distance from the point of entrance. Cases have been observed where hyster- ical women, from the peculiar vanity of attracting the attention of physicians, have inserted numerous needles in different parts of the body; these needles appeared now here, now there. Even when needles have been swallowed, they may without danger pass through the walls of the stomach and intestines, and come to the surface at any part of the abdominal wall. H. von LangenhecJc found a pin in the centre of a vesical calculus ; on more careful inquiry, it was found that, when a child, the patient had swallowed a pin. The pin may have passed through the intestine into the bladder ; here triple phos- phates were deposited around it in layers, and this was possibly the origin of the calculus. Dittle had a similar experience. When the needle has remained for a time in the soft parts without exciting- pain, or when needles, passing through the body from within outward, come to the surface close under the skin, they usually excite a little suppuration; the piercing feeling becomes more decided ; we make an incision at the painful spot, let out a little thin pus, and in the pus-cavity find the needle, which may be readily removed with forceps. It is difficult to explain why this body, which for months has moved about in the body, should at length excite suppuration when it arrives under the skin ; you must here satisfy yourselves with a simple knowledge of the facts. The following interesting case mav render the course of these injuries more clear to you: In Zurich a perfectly idiotic female deaf mute, thirty years old, was brought to the clinic with the diagnosis: typhus. No history of the case could be obtained from the patient or those about her, who were also lack- ing in intelligence. The patient, who often remained in bed for days, had complained for a short time of pain in the ileo-cmcal region, and had moderate fever. Examination showed a swelling at this point, which increased the following days, and was very painful on pressure; the skin reddened, fluctuation became evident. It was clearly not a case of typhus, but you may imagine what different diagnoses there were as to the seat of the suppuration, for there was undoubtedly an abscess; it might be inflammation of the ovarjq perforation of the vermiform process, an abscess in the abdominal walls, etc., etc. ; still.