CLUB-FOOT, ETC. 559 now genenillj mean bj' this term only the forms where the inner border of the foot is raised, while the plantar surface is usually flexed, and in children it cannot be brought into the normal position, unless with the greatest dilBculty. If children born with such feet (both feet are usually affected) learn to walk, they step on the outer side of the foot; this rolls more and more inward, becomes flat, the hol- low of the foot is contracted, the middle and anterior part of the foot are not well developed, the joints become anchylosed and the feet become misshapen clubs ; the outer part of the back of the foot is the part walked on, and at that point a thick callosity forms with a mu- cous bursa under it; as the foot is not moved, the muscles of the leg atrophy, so that little besides skin and bone is left; this causes the resemblance to a horse’s hoof. Various grades of club-foot have been distinguished, from the trifling deformity just after birth to that just described. It is to be remarked that the higher grades of club- foot result from walking; if the patient never got on his feet, the con genital deformity would probably change little, if any. The most varied hypotheses have been advanced as to the causes of congenital club-foot. The tyj^ical form of this congenital deformity appears to indicate that it depends on disturbance of a tj'pical devel- opment of the lower extremities; for if foetal disease, disturbance of an irritative nature, or abnormal pressure in the uterus, were at fault, cases would probably differ, as we shall see hereafter. The following views, recently published, seem to me very important inth'e exj^lana- tion of tliis deformity. EschricJit has shown that at the commence- ment of their development the lower extremities lie with their backs against the abdomen, the hollows of the knees being against the belly; so during the earlier months the legs must rotate on their a.xes, and the toes, which pointed backward, must point in the opijosite direc- tion. If the embryonic extremities lie so close as to appear united under a common skin, or be really united, the above-mentioned rota- tion of the limbs cannot occur, and in this deformity (sh'en) the feet are turned directly backward. This rotation on the axis, which Avas arrested in the above case, does not take place fully in club-foot, the rotation in the foot is not fully accomplished. According to this, congenital club-foot would come among cases of obstructed develop- ment; about its cause we know as little as we do of other deformities of the same class. The abnormal forms observed by Ilueter, espe- cially the obliqueness of the ankle-bones, unsuitable length of the mus- cles, among which shortness of the gastrocnemius is the most con- spicuous and longest known, must be regarded as consequences of this faulty direction of the foot in ntero, Avhich is subsequently in creased. This explanation, based on accurate observation, is so much