THROMBOSIS, EMBOLISM. 3G1 tlirougli the pulmonary abscess; portions from these thrombi pass into the left heart, and thence farther. As regards liver-abscesses, Busch has observed that retrograde movements of the blood from tlie right heart take place in the vena cava, and in this way hepatic emboli may occur. The embolic origin of metastatic abscesses is now so undoubted that, from the existence of one of these, we decide certainly on a venous thrombus undergoing putrid or suppurative liquefaction. The discovery of the connection may be easy in some cases, very difficult in others: very easy in cases of thrombus of large venous trunks, and embolism of branches of the pulmonary artery that may be readily reached with the scissors ; very difficult where tliere is simply coagu- lation in some small venous net-work (as in phlegmonous inflammation or decubitus) and embolism of capillaries of the lungs, spleen, kidneys, liver, muscles, etc.; still, these latter cases are almost innumerable. On favorable objects (as in cerebral capillaries) it has been proved, beyond a doubt, that capillary emboli exist in some cases ; it is also certain that small veins become thrombosed in all suppurative inflam- mations ; it is very difficult, often impossible, to demonstrate this anatomically in every case. From what symptoms we conclude whether a coagulum is old or recent, will be taught you in the lec- tm’es on pathological anatomy.'" Here we are only speaking of metas- tatic circumscribed inflammations, of infarctions, and abscesses ; these alone are connected with venous thrombi and emboli. For dilfuse metastatic inflammations another explanation must be sought; we shall treat of this more under septicaemia and pyaemia. Nor shall we here discuss the question of fever in phlebitis and in the formation of metastatic abscesses. As phlebitis, with its results, so very often comes as an addition to already-existing acute inflammations, it is dif- ficult to judge how far it of itself excites fever ; metastatic abscesses, like all other points of inflammation, undoubtedly induce fever; we should scarcely expect fever from a simple thrombus of the vessels. In dogs, by inducing numerous small emboli in the lungs by in- jecting flour or powdered coal into tlie jugular vein, we may, it is true, excite fever, as was shown by Bergmann, Strieker, and Albert; but this does not always occur in embolism in other vascular tracts, and possibly depends on increased action of the respiratory muscles. Tlie treatment of phlebitis and thrombus is the same as that of lymphangitis and other similar acute inflammations. Careful frictions with mercurial ointment, or, if we fear detachment of the coagulum, covering the part with compresses smeared with mercurial ointment, or with bladders of ice, and absolute rest of the aflected part, arc indi- cated. Under pyaemia we shall speak of the diagnosis and treatment of metastatic abscesses. If phlebitis and thrombosis cause local sup puration, the abscesses should be opened as soon as recognized.