TUMORS. 042 telangiectases, altliougli the blood may be pressed out of the cavernous venous tumors more readily than from telangiectases. IDeeply-seated tumors of this sort are always difficult to recognize with certainty; they usually show decided fluctuation, are somewhat compressible, swell on forced expiration; but the last two symptoms are not always distinct, hence they may readily be mistaken for lipomata, cysts, and other soft tumors; sometimes, indeed, this mistake cannot be avoided. Probably half the angiomata are congenital, or at least developed soon after birth. If they develop during life, it is usually in childhood or youth; it is rare for vascular tumors to occur during manhood or old age, which is very remarkable, as the disposition to vascular dis- eases, especially to ectasia of the vessels, greatly increases with ad- vanced age. Not only the larger arteries and veins dilate at this time, but also the small anastomosing A'^essels and capillaries, at certain localities, show visible dilatations through the skin. On the face of a ruddy, healthy old man we see red cheeks as we do in the young; it is not, however, the regular rosy bloom of a maiden’s cheek, but a more bluish red, and, if you look more closely, you find numerous tortuous vessels, visible to the naked eye; in some, this redness occurs in spots. These small vascular ectasim do not occur in all old persons, so that we must suppose them due to a peculiar predisposition. Hence, as we said, in spite of the fact that advanced age is more disposed to disease of the vessels than any other time of life, true vascular tumors develop almost exclusively in youth. There is no doubt that the te- langiectasiae, which jDopularly are often called “ mother’s-raarks,” are often inherited. This appears to be jDroved by a number of stories about children, that have been lost, being subsequently recognized by marks inherited from the father or mother. We should undoubtedly learn far more of the hereditary transmission of vascular tumors if we would attend more to that of diseases of the vessels generally. Even if jjlexiform and cavernous angiomata are to be regarded as anatomi- cally distinct from each other, and from the different varieties of va- rices and aneurisms, it is still clear that a predisposition to dilatation of the vessels is at the root of all of them; tliis is undoubtedly to a great extent inherited, and the above diseases can only be regarded as different modes of appearance of this predisposition at different ages. Hitherto attention has been so exclusively paid to tlie ana- tomical conditions of the tumors that the classes of diseases accom- panying them have been too little noted. As regards tlie further fate of angioma, telangiectasia', which are almost always congenital, may be either solitary or multiple. Their growth is always slow, painless, and is sometimes chicflj’^ superficial again in the depth, and usually at the exj:>ensc of the diseased tissua