G8 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. the consolidation of the cicalrix must take place : this is accomplished, on the one hand, by the partial disappearance of the newly-formed vessels, whose walls fall together, and they thus become solid, fine, connective-tissue strings ; on the other hand, by the intercellular sub- stance becoming firmer and containing less water, as above mentioned, the cells assume the flat form of connective-tissue corpuscles, or disap- pear; possibly some of them remain as wandering cells, and return again into the Ijnuphatics or blood-vessels. To this condensation and atrophy is due the great contractile power of the cicatricial tissue, by means of which large, broad cicatrices may occasionally be reduced to half their original size. At the first glance, it might appear to you contradictory, that an apparently excessive capillary net-work should be formed in the young cicatrix, and should subsequently be for the most part obliterated. We cannot explain this apparent excess, still there are plenty of analogies in embryonal development; I only need to remind you that there is a period in foetal development when, even in the vitreous body, there is a capillary net-work, which, as you know, disappears, leaving scarcely a trace. Not to fatigue you with so-called theoretical subjects, I leave this field for a short time, and, before leaving healing by the first inten- tion, as a point fully understood, I shall make a few remarks on the causes that may prevent this mode of healing, even when the flaps of the wound are in apposition. Healing by first intention does not take place : 1. When the edges of the wound are brought together by plasters, or sutures, but their tension or tendency to separate again is very great. Under these circumstances, either the plasters do not keep the wound accurately closed, or the sutures cut through the flaps; perhaps also the tension of the tissues obstructs the flow of blood in the capillaries, and thus disturbs the cell development and formation. How gi’eat this tension must be, and what means we have for relieving it, you can only learn in the clinic. 2. A further obstruction to*healing is, a large amount of blood poured out between the edges of the wound ; this interferes with the process of healing, partly as a foreign body, and partly, if it decom- poses, by the induence of the process of decomposition. 3. Other foreign bodies, as sand, dirt, alkaline urine, fieces, etc., also retard the healing, partly mechanically, partly chemicall}\ Hence these substances should be carefully removed before uniting the wound. In wounds of the urinary bladder, it is not usual to attempt the clos- ure of the skin-wound; the urine would force its way into the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, or into the peritoneal sac, and excite terrible