TUMORS. 714 of the lymphatic glands do not increase the predisposition to metasta- tic tumors. In reply to the question, whether carcinoma should ever be operated on, we may say that operation probably has no direct in- lluence on the diathesis, and that the operation, if done at all, must be done for other reasons. We said intentionally that the operation has no direct influence on the course of the disease, but we think it has an indirect influence, as the tumor induces other causes of disease; the weakness, anmmia, and disturbance of nutrition caused by the sup- puration and pain from a cancerous tumor, perhaps also the constantly gnawing care with the ever-recurring reflection on the incurable nature of their disease, are factors which may well hasten the course of the malady. Under some circumstances I consider it the duty of the physician to deceive the patient about the incurability of this disease, whether he considers an operation as possible or not, where the physician cannot aid the patient, he should alleviate his sufferings, mental as well as physical. Few persons have the quiet of mind, res- ignation, firmness, or whatever you choose to call it, to enjoy what remains of life, if they know they have an incurable disease. Although perhaps externally quiet, patients will thank you little for confirming what they may have feared. On this point you will have many trials, and I must leave you in each case to do whatever is dictated by your personal shrewdness, knowledge of men, and your feelings.—Although we may not get rid of the diathesis by the operation, as when, having removed a diseased portion of breast, we fail to prevent new nodules forming in the remaining portion which was pre\'iously healthy, or in the other healthy breast (regional recurrence), soon after the cicatrix has healed, still by the early removal of tlie primary tumor we may prevent the neighboring glands, or the adjacent portion of mamma, from becoming diseased. Few as are the complete recoveries from cancer of the breast after operation, I believe they will grow more frequent when the family-doctor, to whom they are generally first shown, urges operation earlier, for at present they usually let the best time for operation slip bjq and the women do not consult professed surgeons, till the local disease and the affection of the axillary glands are so far advanced that a complete operation is no longer practicable. Tlio favorable results from early extirpation of true cancer of the lip should embolden us to remove other cancerous tumors early. If it has hither- to rarely been possible to operate on cancers early and completely, there are still important local causes winch indicate even late opera- tions, to prevent as long as possible the advance of the tumor to parts where the disease would necessarily destroy life. Although in most cases there will be local recurrence, this will not take place for months, perhaps for a year, meantime, life will not be directly endangered;