4T0 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. eral health induced by long suppuration of the bone and soft parts. Regai'ding the late of the part diseased we have already said enough, having on the one hand described the process of destruction and its results on the parts around, and on the other the mode of the possible ciwe. Here I shall only add the remark that, in caries of the vertebrm, as we may readily see, the spinal medulla may be endangered, by participation in the suppuration, or by being so bent, by the inclina- tion of the vertebrJB, that its function is destroyed; thus we may have paralysis of the lower extremities, of the bladder, or of the rectum, from caries of the spine. Practically, this is rarer than might have been expected a priori^ because the spinal medulla is considerably protected by the hard dura mater, and bears quite an amount of grad- ual curvature without impairment of its function. The state of the general health, the grade and variety of the febrile reaction, are of general prognostic significance. Chronic diseases of the bone rarely begin with fever; indeed, in many cases, especially when there is no local treatment, and the consecutive abscess is allowed to open spontaneously, the patient escapes fever altogether. But this per- fectly afebrile course does not continue; if the patient has remained free from fever j^rewous to the opening of the abscess, after this there is usually hectic fever, which is generally a remittent fever with steep curves, i. e., low morning and high evening temperature. The earlier large cold abscesses are opened the sooner the afebrile passes into a febrile state, and not unfrequently there is an intense, exhausting, continued remittent fever; the chronic ulceration then often becomes an acute inflammation, with great tendency to disin- tegration of the diseased tissue; after the thin, flocculent, but not badly-smelling pus is evacuated, there is occasionally sanious sup- puration, which may be only temporary. In such cases pyremia may be the winding-up of the whole disease. It is difficult to state the cause of this change of course after open- ing of a cold abscess, Avhy the chronic inflammation should so quickly change to an acute form. The common supposition is, that the entrance of air excites severe inflammation in the walls of the large abscess cavity, which were already disposed to disintegrate, and tliat the oxygen of the air is the especial cause of the decomposition. This view may be correct in many cases, but it is not the air itself or the oxygen that is injurious, nor is it always the organic germs contained in the entering air. But it is certain that sometimes puncture or any method of opening gives enough irritation to excite an acute, spreading inflammation of the badly-organized walls of the abscess. In many cases also infectious matbws may bo inoculated by the in- struments or dressings. [In the Medical News and Library, July,