95 TREATMENT OF SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS. the joint, but is often dangerous to life from its secondary effects. External circumstances, the constitution and temperament of the pa- tient, have also a certain influence on the course of cure. Another source of danger is the accessory diseases which subsequently arise, and of which unfortunately there are many; of these we shall here- after speak in a separate chapter. You must for the time being con- tent yourselves with these indications, whose further elucidation forms a very considerable part of clinical surgery. We may give the treatment of simple incised wounds very briefly. We have already spoken of the uniting of wounds without loss of substance, and the proper time for removing the sutures, and that is about all that we can regard as directly affecting the process of heal- ing. Still, as in all rational therapeutics, here it is most important: 1. To prevent injurious influences that may interfere with the nor- mal course ; 2. Carefully to w*atch the occurrence of deviations from the normal, and to combat them at the right time, if ^Dossible. If we, first of all, limit ourselves to local treatment, we have no remedy for decidedly shortening the process of healing by first inten- tion or by suppuration, say to half its time or less. Nevertheless, most wounds require certain care, although innumerable slight wounds heal Avithout being seen by a surgeon. The first requirement for normal healing is absolute rest of tlje injured part, especially if the wound has extended through the skin into the muscles. Hence, in wounds at all deep, it is very necessary that tlie patient should not only keep his chamber, but that he should remain in bed for a time, as it is evident that the movement of injured parts, especially of in- jured muscles, must interfere with the process of healing. The sec- ond important point is cleanliness of the Avound and its vicinity. Formerly it was always considered necessary to cover the wound, and to apply dressings in all cases. Of late I have grown doubtful if this be indeed necessary ; indeed, T would go so far as to assert that in many cases it is well not to apply any dressings. In wounds that have been sewed up, it has often been observed that it does no harm to leave them uncovered. If we wish to cover sutured wounds, on account of pain, redness, and swelling, or because they are in a part of the body upon which the patient must lie, we may apply various kinds of dressing ; we may smear the edges of the wound with pure, fine oil, best with almond-oil, and lay on a fold of linen dipped in oil, which should be changed daily, till the sutures are removed ; or else Ave may apply a linen compress three or four layers thick, and the size of (he Avound, Avet Avith Avater, and cover it Avith oil-silk, gutta- percha sheeting, or parchment-paper, and make a fcAv loose turns of a bandage over it.