TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 384 jng every thing that may favor the disease. Even in operations ther^ are some points to be observed ; all the instruments used, the hands of the operator and his assistants, and the sponges (which should either be perfectly new or should be replaced by moist compresses), should be perfectly clean; hemorrhages should be entirely arrested, especially if sutures are to be applied, and the wound is deep; if the wound heals by suppuration, the compresses should be moistened with chlorine-water. In accidental injuries, all deep wounds, particularly if contused, should be kept quiet by dressings ; all that is necessary in compound fractures has already been said. Every thing that can excite secondary inflammation (page 16.5) should be most carefully avoided; the patient should lie quiet, and as comfortably as possible. I would remind you of the treatment previously given for contused wounds. Of course the greatest care must be used in dressing the wound; here the greatest jjedantry may be very beneficial. Hospital influences, which I only touch on here, are peculiarly interesting. Although few of you may have the fortune to control civil hospitals, any of you may desire knowledge on this point during war. Of course, hospitals should only be located where there is no marsh 'miasm. The hospital should be placed in a large, open space, with trees planted about it, and should have properly-located odorless wa- ter-closets. Of all artificial systems of ventilation, I think that Va?i Ueke's is the only one worth any thing. In it the walls of the whole building are traversed by canals, opening into every ward. All these canals start from cross-passages under the building, at whose points of intersection there is a sort of Avind-mill, driven by steam, so that new air is thus constantly driven into the wards of the hospital (pul- sionssystem). If there be no artificial system of ventilation, we must do as well as we can with the so-called natural ventilation, i. e., cor- responding draught-oi^enings should be made above and below in doors and windows, so that in their beds the patients may escape the draught as much as possible; these ventilators should never be en- tirely closed. An excellent English surgeon, S2Je7icer ^Vells, says: “ There is only one true means of ventilation: the impossibility of closing doors and windows.” I consider a proper use of the wards as important as their ventilation. No surgical ward should be used more than four weeks in succession; it should then be emptied for a few days anti carefully cleaned; the walls shoukl be painted Avith oil- paint so that they may be washed, or else they should be Avhitc- washed at least rtvo or three times a year, more frequently' if neces- sary. The beds should be frequently aired, shaken up, and sunned, and the straw in the sacks often reneAved. EA’eiy surgical division should have one, or, still better, tAVO siqiernumerary Avards, so that