387 TETANUS. is usually sought in the nervous centres. But it is known that by blood-poisoning, with strychnine, severe spasms, and with alcohol, psychical disturbances (drunkenness) may be induced ; hence, it is very possible that the following forms of disease may result from poisoning with peculiar substances, which possibly are very rarely formed in wounds, and thence absorbed, while in drunkard’s mania a series of ordinary pyrogenous materials may excite certain disturb- ances (namely, fever with peculiar, predominant psychical disturbances)' in the organism already poisoned by alcohol. The symptoms that we shall see in these diseases are all present in ordinary fever, although to a slighter and less prominent degree ; in the combination of the alfected muscles, chills have an undoubted similarity to tetanus, psy- chical disturbances, even to maniacal attacks, occur as so-called fever delirium in some cases of sei^ticaemia, but especially in typhus. In de- sciibing the individual diseases, we shall occasionally recur to these remarks, for which, unfortunately, we have no experimental foundation. 4. Traumatic Tetanus {Trismxis).—This disease, which consists in spasms of the muscles of the jaw alone (trismus), or of all the muscles of the body (tetanus), the muscles of the extremities being most affected sometimes, at others those of the front or back of the trank, occasion- ally occurs in the wounded; though it is rare in proportion to the traumatic diseases above described, it occurs still more rarely in per- sons without wounds. In large hospitals, years may pass without a case of tetanus being seen; again, at certain times, numbers of cases will appear, so that there has been an inclination to seek an epidemic cause. The disease is by no means confined to hospitals, but comes either in or out of them. However, before discussing the etiology, I will try to give you a brief description of an acute case. The third or fourth day after an injury, rarely sooner, often later, you find that the patient cannot open his mouth well when speaking-, and complains of tearing, drawing pains, and of stiffness in the masti- catory muscles. In very acute cases there is high fever even with these first symptoms, in other cases the patient is free from fever at this stage. The lines in the patient’s face gradually assume a pecu- liar, stiff expression, the facial muscles being to some extent spasmod- ically contracted. Subsequently there are tetanic spasms, -which may affect the trunk or extremities; in some cases these last several sec- onds or minutes, and are induced by any external irritation, just as in hydrophobia. These spasms are accompanied by severe pain. Occa- sionally, from first to last, some groups of muscles remain regularly but painlessly contracted; in some patients the twitchings (shocks of Rose) are entirely absent, and there is only permanent contraction of more or less distinct groups of muscles. Not unfrequeutly the