CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 538 it may originate in acute articular rheumatism or in a gonorrhoeal in* flammation of the joint; after the termination of the acute or sub- acute disease of the joints, stiffness, pain, and swelling, remain in some of the joints, most frequently in the knees. But the disease may be chronic from the start, with moderate, unsteady pains in the joints. At first the patients use their limbs very well; but in the course of months and years the mobility gradually decreases; after exertion and catching cold, subacute dropsies of the joint come on, a part of the fluid may be reabsorbed; but the joint always remains somewhat stiflFer after every exacerbation, sometimes also it is enlarged. In the morning, when the patient rises, the limbs are so stiff as to be scarcely mov- able, though, after a few efforts, he gets along better for the rest of the day, but toward evening the joint again becomes painful. Now a new symptom gradually arises ; the muscles atrophy, the legs become thinner, and are fixed in a flexed position ; the atrophjdng muscles have great inchnation to contract, which is constantly favored by the abnormal position of the joint. Meantime, the general health of the patient remains perfect; his appetite and digestion are good; he grows fat, and only has fever when there is an exacerbation of the joint-trouble. The joint is not very painful on pressure; if it be movable, we may feel and hear friction and grating sounds. This goes on for years. Finally, ihe patients emaciate greatly, the joints be- come deformed and stiff, or, as the laity say, “ all drawn up;” if tlie disease be in the hips or knees, they are bed-ridden, but with proper care may live for years; the knee, hip, wrist, ankle, and shoulder joints, are most frequentlj' attacked. 2. Arthritis deformans is almost always monarticular, rarely it attacks similar joints on both sides; it occm-s in persons otherwise healthy and strong; I have seen it somewhat more frequently in men than in women. This form received its name from the fact that in it the periarticular periosteal formation of bone and the ground surfaces become so extensive that the joint is deformed. I have seen tlie dis- ease once in the hip, in both knees of the same jierson, once in the foot and elbow, and twice in the shoulder. Usually there is no assign- able cause ; in some cases it was in-eceded by luxations or sprains. These joints are generally painless, stiff, dropsical, and often contain loose bony bodies, and the synovial membrane may be covered with fatty tufts. 3. Malum coxce senile. If the disease attack old people, it is usually somewhat milder than the bad forms of chronic rheumatism. The hip is the chief seat of the disease, hence the name “ malum coxae senile,” but it also comes in the shoulder, knees, and elbows, but especially in the fingers and great toes of old peojele. Its commence-