74 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. of the vessels will be interfered with. Let us suppose that the upper layer, shaded in the diagram, is dead from the changes in the circula- tion. What will now take place in the tissue itself? Essentially, the same changes as in the united edges of a Avound; wandering of white-blood cells through the Avails of the vessels, their collection in the tissue Avith the secondary action they induce; plastic infiltra- tion, and inflammatory new formation. But, since there is no oppos- ing wounded surface, Avith which the new tissue can coalesce, then to be quickly transformed to connective tissue, the cells, escaping from the vessels, remain at first on the sprface of the wound; the exuded fibrinous material on the surface of the Avound becomes soft and gelatinous; at the same time, the infiltrated tissue of the surface of the wound assumes the same peculiarities ; the soft connectiA'e tissue, into Avhich the young vessels shortly grow, even if only present in small quantities, holds together the cells of the inflammatory new for- mation, which constantly increase in number. The granulation tissue is thus formed; this is, therefore, a highly-vascular inflammatory new formation. At first, it groAvs constantly, the direction of its growth is from the bottom of the Avound toward the surface; the tissue is, however, of different consistence in the various layers, its superficial surface especially is soft, and most superficially of fluid consistence, for here the intercellular substance becomes not only gelatinous, but fluid; this uppermost thin fluid layer, Avhich is constantlj’^ flowing and being constantly renewed from the granulation tissue by cell-exu- dation, is^:>MS (Fig. 6). Hence, pus is fluid, as it were melted, dissolved inflammatory new formation. Where pus is present in quantity it must have come from some sort of granulation tissue or from some other highly-vascular and usually higlily-cellular source ; tliis source need not always be a surface, as in the jjresent case, but may lie deep in the tissue and form a cavity; the centre of an inflammatory ncAV formation anyAvhere in the tissue may break doAvn into j^us; then Ave have an abscess. We shall frequently have occasion to speak of this relation of pus and granulations to each other; hold fast to the idea of granulations being tissue (not granules), and of pus being fluid inflammatory new formation, and you will liereafter readily understand many processes, especially chronic inflammations, Avhose variable appearance you wouhl otherwise find incomprehensible. Let us now say a few Avorcls about pus itself. If left standing in a vessel, it separates into an upper, thin, clear la}mr, and a lower yel- low one; the former is fluid intercellular substance, the lattercontjiins chiefly pus-corpuscles. On sitnjile microscopic examination these are round, finely punctated globules, of the size of white-lflooLl corpuscles;