CHROXIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 510 the same anatomical changes go on as in fungous inflammation, (chronic periostitis in the vicinity of the joint may also cause inflam- mation of the joint, especially when it induces cold abscesses; as may also chronic granular proliferations in the capsule, remains of neg- lected sprains of the joint. The external appearance especially is greatly influenced i>y the extent to which the parts immediately around the joint participate in the inflammation; if the capsule participate very actively, the joint becomes regularly thick and round. This enlargement of the joint is also considerably increased by the formation of osteophytes, which form on the articular surfaces; these will be the larger, the more the capsule and periosteum of the articular surfaces have been implicated, and the more proliferating and productive the disease generally; wliile from the joint the condyles and sesamoid bones are destroyed, from without new bone is formed as described to you under caries. Caries of the joint has an old name, which is still occasionally used, it is arthrocace this word is combined with the name of the different joints, and thus we speak of gonarthrocace, coxarthrocace, omar- throcace, etc. Rust wrote a book about diseases of the joint, and gave it the fearful name “ arthrocacologie,” which it is not worth your while to remember ; I only mention it as a curiosity; it originated at a time when the study of eye-diseases also consisted almost exclu- sively in learning by heart the most frig-htful Greek names. The ex- tent to which the muscles suffer in tumor albus is important. In the vicinity of the inflamed joint, and often some distance from it, the contractile substance in the primitive filaments gradually disappears, usually after precedent fatty degeneration, and the affected limb atrophies more and more, in some patients more tlian in others; the thinner it becomes, the more striking grows the enlargement of the joint, which often is not really very decided when you compare its measurement with that of the sound one. \ou will occasionally Imar and read of the puffing up and enlargement of the articular ends of the bones in tumor albus; this is a false expression ; in caries of the joint the bones never swell; when they appear swollen, the swelling is due to the thickening of the soft parts or to formation of osteo- phytes. A further difference in the course of diseases of the joints lies in the greater or less tendency to suppuration; abscesses and fistuhe are by no means necessary sec[uela3 of fungous inflammations of the joints, they are rather accidents. You already know th.at caries fun- gosa not unfrer|ueutly runs its course without suppuration. Hie lun- gnus articular inflammations are often accompanied by caries sicca; the affection may go on for years Avifhout tlie formation of abscesses, es-