189 SYMPTOMS OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. —strictly to crepitate means to crackle; this is a sound, and still we say, we feel crepitation; it is no use to object to this ; this is an abuse of the word, which has so gone into practice, however, that it cannot be rooted out, and every one knows what it means. An edu- cated touch usually feels at once all that can be detected by the touch; hence it is unnecessary to make the patient suffer long under this examination. Crepitation may be absent or very indistinct; of course, it only exists when the fragments can be moved, and when they are quite near each other; if they be considerably displaced laterally or be drawn far apart by muscular contraction, or if there be blood between the fragments, no crepitation can be felt, and it is often difficult to detect when the bones lie deep. Hence, if we detect no crepitation, this, in opposition to all the other symptoms, does not prove that there is no fracture. Still, even where there is crep- itation, you may mistake its origin; you may have a feeling of fric- tion under other circumstances; for instance, the compression of blood coagula or fibrinous exudations may give a feeling of crepitation; this soft crepitation, which is analogous to pleuritic friction, you should not and will not mistake for bony crepitus after some experi- ence in examination ; when opportunity offers, I shall hereafter call your attention to other soft friction-sounds which occur especially in the shoulder-joint in children and old persons. For experienced sui'- geons, in certain fractures severe pain at a fixed point is enough for a correct diagnosis, especially as in contusions the pain on grasping the bone is mostly diffuse, and rarely so severe as in fracture. If we are examining an extremity, it is best to seize it with both hands at the suspected point, and attempt motion here; this manipulation should be firm, but not rough, of course. I must add something about the dislocation of the fragments; this may vary, but the displacements may be divided in various classes, which from time immemorial have had certain technical designations, which are still used, and which consequently must be explained. Simple lateral displacement is called dislocatio ad latus / if the fragments form an angle like a half- broken stick, it is called dislocatio ad axin. If a fragment be rotated more or less on its axis, we call it dislocatio adperipheriam ; if the broken ends be shoved past each other vertically, it is a dislocatio ad longitudinem. The expressions are short and distinctive, and easily remembered, especially if you represent to yourselves the displace- ments by diagrams. We now pass to a description of the course of healing of a frac- ture. You will rarely have the opportunity of seeing what happens when no bandage is applied, as the patient generally sends early for a surgeon. But occasionally the laity undervalue the importance of 14