169 INFLAMMATION OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. from the wound itself, may be a disputed point, so far as we at present know. We shall return to this point when speaking of accidental traumatic diseases. You will suspect me of contradicting myself here, because in yesterday’s lecture I said that no molecular body could en- ter the tissues through an uninjured gTanulation-surface. I must still claim this as usual; a strong, uninjured granulation-surface is a de- cided protection against infection through the wound. But, when the infecting material itself is very irritating, so that it destroys the granulating surface by causing decomposition, a passage-way is opened for the poison to enter the tissues. StiU more, there are certain sub- stances which are carried into the granulation-tissue, and perhaps even further, by the pus-cells. If you sprinkle a granulating surface on a dog with finely-powdered carmine, some cells take up the small carmine granules and wander with it into the granulation-substance; after a time you find cells with carmine in the granulation-tissue. I consider this an abncjrmal retrograde movement of the pus-cells, which we generally believe to pass from the granulation-tissue to the surface of the wound; it is true, no one has seen this. Nevertheless, from the above experiment, it is evident that even molecular substances may pass from without into the tissue of the edges of the wound, and, if these substances be very decomposable or cauterant, they will excite active inflammation. But all of the millions of molecular organisms in the atmosphere ai-e not taken up by the wound, nor do they each induce inflammation. My belief is that all micrococci do not neces- sarily have a phlogogenous action, but only those which are formed in certain products of inflammation, such as decomposing pus or fluids of the body, putrid urine, etc., and which have there ab- sorbed the ferment. This is the most frequent cause of micrococ- cus in hospital; hence its development there is to be combated with particular energy. I do not believe that these substances, whether lifeless or living molecules, are always the same, but I think they are very numerous, as are the causes of inflammation generally ; they may all have certain chemical peculiarities in eommon, as we might suppose from their similar action, although we know nothino- about them, except this action; they also differ somewhat in their mode of action on this or that tissue ; the absorbability of such sub- stances may vary with the part of the body, and possibly, also, with the individual; but the large number of these injurious substances is, in fact, small as compared with the innumerable variety of oro-anic substances generally. Febrile reaction is usually greater from contused than from incised wounds; according to our view, this is because, from the decomposi- tion, which is much more extensive in crushed than in incised parts.