SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TEE SOFT PARTS. 108 these means so rarely succeeds, that they are only exceptionally em- ployed. The best results are obtained from secondary sutures when, six or seven days after the injury, they are applied about four or five lines from the edge of the wound, because the tissue is then more dense and firm, and the sutures cut through less quickly. There is still another mode of healing, viz., healing of a superficial wound under a scab. This only occurs frequently in small wounds, that secrete but little pus, for in these alone does the pus dry on the wound to a firmly-attached scab ; in profuse suppuration it is true the superficial layer of the pus may dry by evaporation of tlie watery portion, but, while new pus is constantly being secreted under it, it cannot form an adherent, consistent scab. When such a scab has formed, the granulation tissue develops to only a very small amount un- der it; perhaps because on account of the slight pressure of the scab, the granulation tissue is less mucous, so that the epidermis can more readily regenerate under the scab; such a small wound may be wholly cicati’ized when the scab falls. The granulation surface niay assume a totally different appearance fi’om that above described, especially in large wounds. There are certain diseases of the granidations, whose marked forms I shall briefly sketch for you, although the varieties are so numerous that you will only learn them from individual observation. We may divdde granulation surfaces as follows: 1. Proliferating fungous granulations. The expression “ fungous ’ means nothing more than “ spongy; ” hence by fungous granulations we mean those that rise above the level of the skin, and lie over the edges of the wound, like fungus or sponge. They are usually very soft; the pus secreted is mucous, glairy, tenacious; it contains fewer cells than good pus, and most of the pus-cells, like granulation-cells, are filled with numerous fat-globules and mucous material, which is also more abundant than normal as intercellular substance; and in these granulations Mindfleisch also discovered collections of Virchow's mucous tissue, fully developed. The development of vessels may be very prolific ; the fragile tissue often bleeds on the slightest touch ; occasionally the gianulations are of a very dark blue. In other cases the development of vessels is very scanty, often to such a degree that the surface is light red, or in spots has even a yellowish, gelatinous appearance, in very anmmic persons, often also in young children and very old persons. The most frequent cause of development of such proliferating granulations is any local impediment to the healing of the wound, such as rigidity of the surrounding skin, so that the con