LOCAL TREATMENT OP CHRONIC INFLAMMATION, 431 Cciuses stronger fluxion to these parts, and. arouses the chronic, torpid inflammation into an energetic, active state. But we shall not worry ourselves trying to discover the physiological way in which these remedies act; this has always been a very thankless task. The fol- lowing remedies of this class are practically useful: Nitrate of silver in concentrated solutions mixed with fat, and rubbed on the skin a couple of times daily, induces a dark-brown hue, with silvery lustre in the skin, and a slow detachment of epidermis. It is one of the mildest derivatives, and is particularly suited to the joint diseases of sensitive children. Tincture of iodine, especially the strong tincture (^iodine 3 j to absolute alcohol f j dissolved with ether), if applied to the skin morning and evening, induces a tolerably sharp burning pain; if this painting be continued two or three days, the epidermis is elevated into a vesicle, occasionally all over the space where the remedy has been applied. Blistering plasters act more rapidly; they consist of powdered cantharides (lytta vesicatoria, meloe vesicatorius) rubbed up vdth wax or fat, and spread on linen, leather, or oiled mus- lin. Well-made ordinary emplastrum cantharidum, in pieces as large as a franc or a dollar, is fastened on the skin, and in twenty-four hours a vesicle forms under it; this is to be punctured, and a piece of wad- ding applied over it; this dries on and becomes detached in three or four days, at which time the detached hard layer of the epidermis has been regenerated from the rete Malpighii. A large spanish-flj'^ blister may be apphed once, or a small one may be applied new every day; the latter method is called vesicatoires volantes. Lastly, we may apply plasters containing only a small amount of cantharides, and only in- ducing continued redness. This is the emplastrum cantharidum per- petuum, or emplastrum euphorbii; it is worn several days or weeks in succession. Although the favorable action of the above derivative remedies in chronic inflammation cannot be denied, I may say that particularly tincture of iodine and blisters do much more good in sub- acute inflammations, or the slight intercurrent acute attacks in chronic inflammation, than in the painless torpid forms. The remedies still left to mention are those followed by long-con- tinued suppuration, a suppuration which is kept up by artificial ex- ternal irritation, according to the will of the physician. Their use is BO diminished during the last ten years that at present very few sur- geons resort to them. Tartar-emetic ointment and croton-oil. When repeatedly applied to the skin for a length of time, in about six or eight days, or in irrib able skins earlier, both of these induce a pustular eruption, which is not unfrequently painful. When these pustules begin to show them- aelves, we stop the applications and allow the pustules to heal. Con-