KESI STANCE TO AMPUTATION. 721 spread of the disease to neighboring parts, but also its injurious effects on the general system. The smaller and more unimportant for the life of the organism the diseased part is, the quicker we shall decide upon sacrificing it. The larger the part to be removed, the greater not only the danger attending the removal, but the more effect will it have on the subsequent usefulness of the patient. This brings an unscientific social element among indications for amputa- tion, which is frequently very important. Thus, a rich man could live, and to a certain extent enjoy life, even after losing all four ex- tremities ; for the physiological uses of the limbs may be supplied by the labor of other persons, and labor may be bought. But for any one dependent on the work of his hands or feet, the loss of a limb, or in some artisans the maiming of a finger, may ruin his pros- pects in life. How can a postman, bricklayer, or turner get on without sound legs, or a jeweler or shoemaker with only one hand ? I have often had to remove a finger which had been drawn into the hollow of the hand by a cicatrix, because it prevented the patient from grasping an axe or spade as his business required him to do. How often I have heard patients say : “ So you can’t cure my foot? T would sooner die than lose it; for what could I do without it ? I am a ruined man ; I cannot stand it; you shall never take it off ! ” But one does not readily die from chronic diseases of the extrem- ities; the pain, continued for weeks, months, or years, finally wears out the strongest; and then love of life, and becoming accustomed to the thought of being able to earn a livelihood even after losing a limb, finally decides most patients to submit to amputation, though sometimes not till it is too late. The opposition of severely wounded persons to amputation varies greatly ; it depends chiefly on the appearance of the injured part, and on the amount of pain. If the extremity be torn to shreds, and pieces of crushed bone be seen in it, there will be little opposition to , amputation; the same is true when there are excessive pain and great ecchymosis, and the fingers and toes are immovable. But if this be not the case; if the severity of the injury be only recognized by the surgeon—for instance, if it be a wound of a joint with fracture of a bone, without much deformity or functional disturbance, if the pa- tient can move his toes and fingers and has no pain—it is often dif- ficult to explain to him the necessity for an operation ; it requires confidence in the surgeon as in a superhuman being to induce him to permit amputation. You will often find your surgical notions met by insuperable objections. If, after a few days, the dangerous changes which you may liave foretold occur, and the patient begs to be amputated, you may sometimes have to say, “ It is too late ; ” but