308 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE BONES, FEIHOSTEUM, ETC. normal termination not only of traumatic but of spontaneous ostitis : the bony cicatrix ossifies, Tliere may also be suppuration, putrefac- tion of the medulla of spongy bones, as in long bones; osteophlebitis and its consequences may also occur. In the lecture on suppuration of bone (p. 216) and healing of open fractures we treated fully of the changes which occur afrer the bone has lost its periosteum, of the development of granulations on the surface of compact bone-sul> stance, and of the accompanying superficial necrosis. Here I will merely add that we sometimes meet multiple inflam- mations of the bones as we do multiple acute inflammations of the soft parts (acute polyarticular rheumatism); these may occur simul- taneously in the two corresponding bones of the lower extremities, or may follow each other; e. g., osteomyelitis of the tibia, suppura- tive inflammation of the knee-joint, osteomyelitis of the femur, puru- lent inflammation of the hip-joint; in one case tnere was also osteo- myelitis of the other femur and purulent coxitis of the other side. Even such cases may possibly terminate favorably, but this is very rare; they usuallj' end fatally.*® We now come to acute inflammations of the joints. As we have previously spoken of traumatic articular inflammations, you already know some of the peculiarities of diseased joints. You also know that serous membranes have a great tendency to excrete fluid exu- dation when irritated, but that this exudation may also contain pus, if the inflammatory irritation be very intense. As there is a pleurisy with effusion of sero-fibrinous fluid (the ordinary form), and a variety with purulent effusion (so-called empyema), so in joints we speak of serous synovitis, or hydrops, and of purulent synovitis, or empyema; both forms of the disease may be either acute or chronic, and they in- duce various diseases of the cartilage, bone, articular capsule, perios- teum, and surrounding muscles. You will see that it is always more complicated with these diseases the more complicated the affected part is. Of late, great importance has been attached (especially by French surgeons) to speaking, first, of diseases of the synovial mem- brane, then of those of the cartilage, articular capsule, and bone, cor- responding to the anatomical conditions. Correct as this division would be, if it were only a question of representing fhe pathological anatomical changes, it is of little use in practice. Tlie surgeon al- ways views inflammation of tlie joint as a whole, and, altliough he should know which part of the joint suffers most, this is only a part of what he should know ; course, symptoms, and cx)nstitutional state, equally demand his attention, and determine the treatment. Hence the entire clinical appearance will determine the divisions of this, ns of many other diseases.