430 CHROXtC INFLAMMATION^ OF THE SOFT PARTS. renewing this dressing every two or three hours. The skin, at first muqh cooled, soon becomes very warm ; then the dressing .should be renewed, so that the cutaneous vessels are kept active by the change from cold to warm, and are thus placed in the best state for absorb- ing. In some cases these wraps are very useful.’*® Hesolvent remedies. Fomentations with lead-water, infusion of arnica, camomile-tea, etc., have some reputation as resolvent appli- cations, which they do not, however, deserve ; they rather belong to the category of inactive domestic remedies. Mercurial salve, mercu- rial plaster, ointment of iodide of potassium, and tincture of iodine, are also absorbents which may be employed alternately in chronic inflammations. I am far from denying them any efficacy in such cases; but you must not expect too much from them. Of late, tincture of iodine, in doses of 5-10 drops, has been injected into lymphatic glands, but with very uneven effect. I pass over a series of resolvent plasters ; they do little good in this way ; their effect is partly as slight irritants to the skin, partly as protective coverings; in some cases I order sucli plasters to prevent the patient from ap- plying something injurious; mercurial plaster only has a medicinal effect when used for a long time. I may mention electricity as a discutient remedy ; its effect does not seem to be very great, but cases are reported where it has been used with advantage ; further investigations should be made on this point. Antiphlogistic remedies proper, such as ice, leeches, cups, etc., about winch you will learn in the clinic, are rarely used, and are only of slight temporary benefit in chronic insidious inflammations ; but, in intercurrent acute attacks, they are just as useful as in primarily- acute inflammations. Some surgeons of the present time, especially Von Esmarch, use ice continuously in chronic torpid inflammations, and praise the result of this treatment. Derivatives. These play an extensive rOle in the treatment of chronic inflammations. They are so named because they are said to remove the inflammation from its location to other points where it \\ ill be less dangerous; there are remedies by which we may induce cutane- ous inflammations of varied grades, and which have been proved b}' careful observers to havm an e.xcellent curative effect. Iho physio- logical explanation of the mode of action of these derivatives is as yet an unsohmd problem. It is supposed that, from the application of these remedies near a point of chronic inflammation in a bone oi joint, the blood and fluids are drawn outward to the skin. In some cases of inflammation accompanied by little energy or vascularization, the derivatives certainly'^ have rather an opposite eflect; i. e., the nev> acute inflammation induced in the immediate vicinity of the chronic one