590 VARICES AND ANEURISMS, viously been occluded, the whole aneurism may become gangrenous, and be thrown off without hasmorrhage. These natural cures are V'ery rare, but indicate the mode of treatment. I shall not here speak of the medical treatment of aneurism, except to mention one method, Valsalva's. The aim of this is, to reduce the volume of blood in the body to a minimum, so as to weaken the heart’s action, and favor the formation of coagula. Repeated venesections, purgatives, absolute quiet, low diet, digitalis internally, and ice locally over the tumor, are the remedies with which the patient is treated under this method; the results are doubtful: the patients are very much debilitated, and the symptoms may then be less; but, as the patients regain their strength, the former condition generally returns. We may employ the above remedies to a moderate extent in alleviating severe symptoms in in- ternal aneurisms, but they will not induce an actual cure; unfortu- nately, internal aneurisms must almost always be regarded as incura- ble. Let us pass to the surgical treatment of external aneurisms. This may be conducted in two ways ; it may aim at the destruction of the aneurism, or its complete removal. In most cases the destruction of tlie tumor will be enoug-h. The remedies for this purpose vary. 1. Gomjoression. This may be applied in various wa}"s: «, on the aneurism; &, on the affected artery, above the tumor. The latter is by far the most effective method, because even a moderate pressure on the aneurism is often painful, and may cause inflammation in its vicinity. The mode of employing compression also varies ; it may be continued, and complete or incomplete ; it may be temporary, but com- plete, i. e., such as to arrest the pulsation. The methods of compres- sion are about as follows : «, compression wdth the fingers, particularly recommended by Vanzetti, and used by other surgeons with advantage; it is made by the surgeon, nurses, or by the patient himself, at inter- vals, so as to arrest pulsation completely for a few hours; if the patient can bear it, this is continued for days, w'eeks, or even months, till the aneurism no longer pulsates, and has become quite hard; &, compres- sion of the aneurism by forced flexion of the extremity; this procedure, first used by 3Ialgaigm, is particularly suited for pojfiiteal aneurism; the limb is fastened in the position of extreme flexion by a bandage and retained thus till the pulsation in the aneurism has ceased c, compression with special apparatus, pads, compresses, etc., which must be so made that the pressure may be as much as possible on the artery, and that oedema m.ay not be induced by simultaneous pressure on the vein ; the pressure need not be hard enough to arrest pulsation entirely, but merely to diminish the supjily of blood. Views regarding the efficacy of compression in the treatment of aneurism varv. Irish surgeons land it highly; French and Italian surgeons