542 CHRONIC INFLAJniATION OF THE JOINTS. are ver}^ unhapiDily situated in regard to it. Since dry, warm air, good nourishment, protection from catching cold, and baths, are seldom to be found in the dwellings of the poor, and since these are ab- solute necessities for the treatment, the prescription of expensive medicines is a pure waste of money. Still, I again repeat, the sooner these patients come under treatment, the more recent the disease, the more you may expect from treatment. You may sometimes arrest the disease. If the malady be already far advanced, its arrest is more difficult, and a cure is rarely to be expected. I believe that most cases of malum coxae senile are incurable; still, even there the above remedies form the rational treatment. Arthritis deformans monar- ticularis is incurable. If the joint be much deformed, you may resect it or amputate the limb. APPENDIX I. LOOSE BODIES IN THE JOINTS (MERES ARTICULARES). By these loose bodies in the joints, we mean more or less firm bodies, forming in a joint. We exclude foreign bodies entering the joint from without, such as needles, bullets, etc., or detached pieces of bone, lying loose in the joint. There are two varieties of loose bodies : 1. Small, oval bodies, resembling melon-seeds or irregular in shape, which usually form in large numbers, and on microscopical ex- amination are found to consist of fibrine. These form in joints with chronic dropsy, and are deposits from the qualitatively and quantita- tively abnormal synovia, just as the analogous bodies are in dropsy of the slieatli of the tendons ; blood-clots may also possilily serve as a source of origin of such bodies. This form of loose bodies nei er requires any operation 5 it is simply an accidental accompaniment of hydrops articulorum chronicus. Occasionally we may predict their presence from finding soft friction when palliating the joint; this does not change the treatment of chronic articular dropsy, and only com- plicates it in that it renders more difficult the eventual reduction of the joint to its normal size. 2. The other variety of articular bodies is of cartilaginous firm- ness, generally containing bone-nuclei, sometimes adherent, at others quite loose in the joint. The form is quite varied, being sometimes very odd. The name “joint mouse” (Gelenkmaus) may have arisen from some accidental shape, resembling a mouse. These bodies are always rounded, but seldom regularly oval or round, being usually nod- ular or warty; their shape is that of the osteophytes in arthritis defor