745 ADDITIONS FROM TUB EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. tissues wliich fulfill no normal function of interchange of tissue, but ia -which the juices are being decomposed iu an abnormal -way, which may even be the same as putrefaction. Paronjmhiae and niore rarely phlegmons sometimes pass so rapidly to gangrene, that from analogy with other processes it seems very improbable that they should be due to arterial thi’ombosis; when the tissue has become gangrenous, the capillary circulation soon ceases, but not from disturbance of the circulation in the arteries and veins, as in gangrene from incarcera- tion, but from arrest of function of their walls from the inflammatory process, which I regard as a higher grade of the inflammatory altera- tion (Cohnheim) that takes place rapidly in such cases. It seems that such a rapid change from inflammatory alteration to destruction of tissue is particularly apt to follow septic poisoning; possibly snake- poison acts in the same way. More of this hereafter. Here we must again mention the fibrinous infiltrations of the cellular tissue (diph- theritic phlegmons). Some clinical observations seem to show that fluid blood can continue to flow for a time through the vessels of tissues whose juices have nearly hardened, that in some of these cases the thrombosis is only the result of the infiltration of tissue, and that the tissue sometimes dies before the circulation is fully arrested. At present we cannot fully explain this symptom ; I only wished to induce you when opportunity ofiered to attend to these practically important processes. The view is not new, for the old surgeons regarded gangrene as the highest point of inflammation. 18.—P. 355. Besides the mechanical cause of the compression, which favors coagulation, in inflammation of any tissue there is another factor having the same effect, namely, the changes in the intima of the vessels, especially of the veins. If we do not know tlie positive chemical conditions under which the blood in the vessels must coag- ulate, since the classical investigations of JiriXche we do know that the normal living intima of the vessels has the special property of keeping the blood fluid, and that coagulation occurs when the intima loses its normal qualities. But in the veins, as in the capillary walls, it loses its normal qualities through inflammation, as is shown by the more recent investigations (see Lecture XXII.) ; these show, indeed, that the inflammatory alteration of the walls of the vessel does not of itself at first induce cither complete stasis or thrombo- sis ; however, it is not improbable that tlie latter is at least favored by the alteration of the walls of the vessel. Hence, the recent views on inflammation would, in some cases at least, confirm the old view