240 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. • work near its surface. We have the investigations of Jlueter^ about the I lymphatic vessels of the s_ynovial membrane; according to them this ^ membrane itself contains no lymphatics, while the subsynovial tissue J is said to be very rich in them. This result is surprising, and hence , requires repetition with all the aids of modern anatomical art. Since r the synovial sacs are serous membranes, it is most probable that they ' contain lymphatic vessels, such as have been described in the perito- f iifeum and other serous membranes, by Von RecMinghamen, forming superficial nets covered with epithelium, and partly opening on the » surface of the membrane. The surface of the synovial membrane, es- pecially at the sides of the joint, shows a number of tufted processes ; / these have well-formed and often complicated capillary nets. Syno- i| vial membranes share with other serous membranes the peculiarity of secreting a considerable quantity of serum on being irritated. At i the same time the vessels become dilated and begin to grow tortuous ^ toward the surface, the membrane loses its lustre and smoothness, and [ first grows cloudy yellowish-red, and later more red and velvety on i the surface. In most cases of acute inflammation a more or less k thick fibrous deposit forms on this surface, a so-called pseudo-mem- | brane, hke that in inflammation of the pleura and peritonaeum. Mi- j croscopical examination of the synovial membrane in this state shows ; that its entire tissue is greatly infiltrated with plastic matter, and that [ on the surface the collection of cells is so considerable that the tissue < here consists almost exclusively of small, round cells, of which the more superficial have the characteristics of pus-cells; in the immedi- ate vicinity of the greatly-dilated vessels we find the collection of wandering cells particularly great, which is probably because in acute synovitis numerous white blood-cells wander through the walls of the vessels into the tissue, and collect in the vicinity of the vessels ; in this process red blood-corpuscles seem also to escape from the vessels in great quantities. The pseudo-membranes are composed entirely of small, round cells, held together by coagulated fibrine,of whose origin from fibrogenous and fibrino-plastic substance we have alreadj’- spoken (p. 63). The connective tissue of the membrane has partly lost its I striated character, and has a gelatinous mucous consistency, so that it ! greatly resembles the intercellular substance of granulation-tissue; j in the fluid in the joint, which is constantly becoming more cloudy and puruloid, there are at first a few pus-corpuscles, which constantly in- crease in number till the fluid has all the characteristics of pus. Still later the surface of the synovial membrane is so vascular that even to the naked eye it looks like a spongy, slightly-nodular granulation- surface, on which pus is constantly forming, as on an ordinary granu- lating surface. The condition into which the synovial membrane