ADENOMATA. 671 llie female urethra, the so-called urethral caruncles. The latter neo- plasite consist solely of oedematous and gelatinous connective tissue, with an epithelial covering. Most mucous polypi of the nares, large intestine, and especially of the rectum, consist to a great extent of elevated and also newly-formed glands of the mucous membrane, whose closed ends sometimes dilate to mucous cysts. Hence, in the anatomical system, according to the glands they contain, mucous polypi may be classed among pure adenoma (as rectal mucous polypi in children), among adeno-sarcomata (many nasal mucous polypi), among oedematous fibromata, or, lastly, among the myxosarcomata. The predisposition to mucous polypi reaches from infancy to the fiftieth year. In children the disease is limited to the rectum and large intes- tine, where sometimes one, sometimes several tumors of the same sort develop, but the latter occurs even oftener in adults than in children. From puberty till about the thirtieth year, it affects chiefly the nasal mucous membrane; sometimes giving rise to single polypi, again, to proliferations in both sides of the nose; the latter is the more frequent. Toward the thirtieth year, mucous polypi of tlie uterus occur; under some circumstances they may change to cancer. In all of these polypi there is a great tendency to recurrence, especially in those of the nose, which often do not cease growdng till they have been re- moved three or four times. Generally, in the course of years, the disposition to these new formations ceases spontaneously, and they cease to recur, or the smaller ones even cease to grow, as, for instance, in the uterus. Microscopic examination of these tumors may give some clew to the prognosis, inasmuch as those tumors which consist entirely of oedematous connective tissue have far less tendency to re- cur than those Avhich consist of tissue analogous to inflammatory new formation; lastly, in some cases anatomical examination alone can prevent mistaking them for ejiithelial carcinoma. Mucous polypi of the nose are most readily removed by tearing them out with the forceps made for that purpose; we do the same for those of the external auditory meatus [the latter may be most effectually cured by free applications of liquor ferri pcrsulphatis] ; those of the uterus and rectum we may cut oft’ at the base with scissors; if we fear hseraor- rhagc, we may previously apply a ligature, or employ the 6craseur. Of the glands without excretory ducts we shall here consider only the thyroid^ as it is a true epithelial gland; adenoma of the ovary so often becomes cystoid in form, that it may be more suitably treated of in the next section. Tumors of the thyroid gland have long been called goitre^ struma (in the middle ages “ strumous ” indicated what we at present call “scrofulous”). Considering the anatomical rcla-