390 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. but there are also a localized lympliangilis, localized erysipelas, etc.; the fact that, after amputation, for instance, twitching not unfrequently occurs in the stump before the spasms become general, might also indicate that the tetanus-poison formed in the wound first irritated the muscles and nerves of the stump, and then passed to the spinal medulla. Tliere still remains much to be investigated on this point. The high fever in most cases of acute tetanus, and the fact that the temperature rises even after their death, has gi’eatly occupied pathol- ogists ; this became still more interesting when Leyden showed that great elevation of the temperature of the blood was caused in a dog in which tetanus had been artificially induced by passing a strong current of electricity through the whole spinal medulla. A. Fick showed that a sur[)lus of heat Avas formed in the muscles, and thence distributed to the blood; also that the elevation of temperature, noticed in the rectum after death, was due to the equalization of Avarmth betAveen the muscles and the rest of the body. If these experiments, Avhich I have repeated, prove that tetanic muscular contractions con- siderably elevate the bodily temperature, they do not show that in traumatic tetanus in man the high temperature is solely or chiefly due to the muscular contractions; this vicAv is opposed by the fact that verv acute cases of tetanus may run their course almost Avithout fever, although this rarely happens; here, too, there are many enigmas to solve. Unfortunately, in most cases the prognosis is bad; very feAV of the acute cases recover; of the chronic cases, which last over a fort- night, some get Avell. Unfortunately, the latter are proportionately rare. From the lack of knowledge about the etiology of tliis disease, the treatment can be only symptomatic. Numerous remedies have been recommended at various times. Generally, the treatment most resorted to is by narcotics, with opium and chloroform; this is the plan I liaA'e adopted. Opium is given in large dr>ses, as high as fifteen grains or more in a day, or a corresponding quantity of morpliine may be given, best by subcutaneous injection; sometimes this arrests the spasms, sometimes it does no good. At all eA’euts, the sullerings of the pa- tient are lessened. During the attacks the patient may be greatly relieved by inhaling chloroform to narcotism. Under this treatment many cases have recovered. The general aim of the treatment is to alleviate the acute course, and make it more chronic, as this gives jiiore hope of recovery. Among other modes of treatment, I may mention the frequent emjiloyment of Avarm potash-baths; and the application of strong irritants along the spine, large blisters, moxa?, the hot-iron, remedies from Avhich I cannot jiromise any good eU’ects,