613 PROGNOSIS AND COURSE OF TUMORS. for the development of growths. Virchow, 0. TFeJer, Mindfleisch, find others, assume that such specific peculiarities are entirely local and limited to an accidentally irritated part of the body, or to a cer- tain system (bones, skin, muscle, nerves, etc.). I cannot imagine the localization of such specific peculiarities; hence, even with this hjrpoth- esis, it seems probable that the apparent local specific peculiarities are due to the intimate relations of the entire organism. From this representation you may see that the diflerent views only differ in the purely hypothetical part. If I entered into the sub- ject more fully than seemed necessary for these lectures, it was be- cause this very important branch of general pathology has latel}”^ been so exhaustively and excellently treated of by VircJioio, O. Weber, Hindjieisch, LUcJce, Thiersch, Plehs, Waldeyer, and others, that I considered it necessary to develop more fully those parts of my views where I differed from these authors, whose excellent vTitings I cannot too strongly recommend for your study. In regard to the prognosis and course of tumors, from what has been said you may infer: 1. That they seldom recover spontaneously, nor are they accessible to medicines; and, 2. That they are partly in- fectious, partly not so. The latter point is particularly striking to unprejudiced observation. There are some tumors which do not re- turn after extirpation, and others that not only return in the cicatrix, but come in the neighboring lymphatic glands and also in internal ori- gans, as already remarked. The former have for ages been called benignant, the latter malignant or cancerous. This observation is so simple that it would seem merely necessary to study exactly the peculiarities of one or other form of tumor, to arrive at an accurate prognosis. But accurate clinical and anatomical study did not lead to this desired simjile result of this dualism, but it showed that the latter did not exist, that the conditions were more complicated. After an exhaustive anatomical study and description of benignant and malignant growths, they were examined under the microscope and in the retort; it Avas thought that the characteristic marks had been found now in one point now in another, and soon one discovery after another proved erroneous: it was thus shown that an antithesis of absolute malignancy and benignancy did not exist in the sense meant, and that it was necessary to distinguish not only solitary, multiple, and infectious tumors, but that a scale must also be made in the grade of infectiousness. We must investigate this more closely. We call a tumor solitary when only one occurs in the body and causes purely local symptoms; they arc usually growths consisting of any fullv