CARCINOMATA. 713 tion may be done with the knife or caustics; the ligature or 6craseur can scarcely ever be employed here (the latter, perhaps, answers only in amputating the penis or tongue). But, before passing to the choice of either of these methods, we must consider the question, whether it is advisable to operate at all, even if it can be done easily and without danger to life, for the views, of experienced surg’eons differ on this point. Some surgeons never operate for cancer. They assert that the operation is ahvays in vain, because the disease recurs; if the re- curring tumors be operated on, new recurrence takes jDlace the sooner; these surgeons even assert that, the more we operate locally, the sooner secondary lymphatic tumors and metastatic cancers form, the local tumor acting as a sort of derivative for the tumor-disease; that this product of disease cannot be removed without favoring the out- break of the disease elsewhere; that, if we nevertheless wish to re- move the tumor, we should lead the morbid juices to some other point, as by establishing an artificial ulcer by means of a fontanel or seton. Concerning this view, which comes from the old humoral pathology, we may say that it remains unproved, and is partly also disproved by experience. We consider it as demonstrable by daily experience that the glandular swellings are essentially due to the development of the primary tumors; we have already stated our belief that the participa- tion of the lymphatic glands in carcinoma is, according to all analogy, caused by local contagion, let the process be what it may. When cases occur where, after removal of cancers of the breast or lip, swell- ings of the lymphatic glands appear, though previously imperceptible, we must consider that the commencement of the disease was so slisrht O as to escape observation.—How far the existence of a primary and secondary cancer of the lymphatic glands influences the subsequent course of the disease, the appearance of metastatic tumors and general cachexia, is a question which cannot be answered, because the disease does not run its course in a regular time; if it did, we might form a rule as to the advisability of operating, by comparing cases that were operated on with those that were not. Approximate results might be attained by classing together cases that were alike in age, consti- tution, variety of the tumor, etc. ; but, as the accurate distinction of the varieties of carcinomata, and consequently an exact arrangement of the cases, has only lately been attained, and even now is not gener- ally known, we cannot at present expect much in this direction; in- dividual observations rarely suffice for definite conclusions. The ex- perience from carcinoma of the face, that the most extensive disease of the lymj)hatic glands is very rarely accompanied by metastatic tumors, strongly favors the belief that the disease is not made more active by tlicse strongly-developed local tumors, and that carcinomata