SIMPLE FRACTURES OF BONES. 188 hands to find l)ow and wliere the fracture runs; this is less necessary, on account of determining the treatment, tlian to be able to decide M-hether and how recovery will result. In this case you have made the diagnosis at a glance, and in surgical practice it will often be easy for you to recognize very quickly the true state of affairs, when you are accustomed to use your eyes thoughtfully, and when you have ac- quired a certain habit in judging of normal forms of the body. Never- theless, you should know perfectly how you arrived at this sudden diagnosis. The first point was the mode of the injury, then the de- formity ; the latter is caused by two or more pieces of bone (frag ments) having been displaced. This dislocation of the fragments is due partly to the injury itself (they are driven in the direction that they maintain, from the bending of the bone), partly to the muscular action which no longer affects the entire bone, but only a part; the muscles are excited to contraction, partly by the pain from the injury, partly by the pointed ends of the bone ; for instance, the upper por- tion of a fractured thigh-bone is elevated by the flexors, the lower por- tion is drawn up near or behind the upper fragment by other muscles, and thus the thigh is shortened and deformed. The awelling is caused by the effusion of blood (we speak here of a fracture that has just oc- curred) ; the blood comes chiefly from the medullary cavity of the bone, and also from the vessels of the surrounding soft parts which have been crushed or torn by the ends of the bone; it looks bluish through the skin, if it works up to the skin, as it gradually does. The patient can only move the extremity with great pain ; the cause of this disturbance of function is evident, we need waste no words on it. If we examine each of the above symptoms separately, none of them, either the mode of injury, the deformity, swelling, effusion of blood, or functional disturbance, will alone be evidence of a fracture, but the combination is very decisive; and you will often have to make such a diagnosis in practice. But all these sj^mptoms may be absent Avhen there is fracture. If there has been an injury, and none of the above symi^toms are well developed, or only one or other of them distinctly exists, manual examination must aid us. AVhat will you feel w'itii your hands ? You should learn this thoroughly at once. I so often see practitioners feel about the injured part for a long time with both hands, causing the patients unspeakable pain, and after all finding out nothing by their examination. By the touch you may perceive three things in fractures: 1. Abnormal mobditg, the only pathognomonic sign of fracture ; 2. You may often detect the course of the fracture, and often whether there are more than two fragments; 3. By moving the fragments you will often experience a rubbing and cracldiig of the fragments against each other, the so-called “ crcjntar