TUMORS. 602 tissue of tumors in inflammations. They may come on in an acute or chronic manner; acute inflammations are on the whole rare, still they may be induced by injuries, blows, or contusions ; this traumatic in- flammation in vascular tumors rich in connective tissue may terminate in resolution with or without cicatricial contraction, but frequently they are followed by more or less extensive extravasations, gangrene, or suppuration. Chronic inflammations in tumors are far more fre- quent, both those characterized by production of inflammatory neopla- sia, fungous ulcerations with great vascularization, and those marked by torpid ulceration. Caseous and fatty degeneration of the tissue and its breaking down into mucous fluid are not very unfrequent occur- rences. In these processes of softening there are thrombosis and col- lateral dilatation of the vessels around the softening point, as in the transformation of a focus of inflammation to an abscess or to caseous matter. All these changes, by development and disease of the tumor, may so complicate its appearance as to render it sometimes difficult at once to tell correctly, in any given case, what was the original tissue of the tumor. Lastly, it sometimes happens that in the course of time tumors change their anatomical state; for instance, a connective-tissue tumor which had long continued in that state becomes softer by rapid proliferation of cells and greater vascularization; or, on the contrary, a soft tumor becomes hard from atrophy of the cells and cicatricial con- traction of the connective tissue existing in the tumo.'-. So you see what an amount of knowledge and experience is necessary merely to judge correctly in each case of these anatomical conditions, which form the basis of all our knowledge of tumors; indeed, we may occa- sionally be unable to give to the object we have examined a name by which it may be simply labeled in one of the regular groups ; as regards the nomenclature of tumors which are composed of various tissues, we generally choose the name from the tissue that is present in the tumor in the largest amount. It has been generally agreed to append difia to the name of the affected tissue, to characterize a tumor histologically ; as sarcoma, carcinoma, etc. There was no word wpa among the Greeks; it came from giving certain nouns the ternnnation oco to make them verbs, as : adp£, flesh, oapKooj, to make flesh ; mpKtvog, cancer, KapKivoio, to make like cancer. The Greeks used the expression adpKcjpa, fleshy tumor, KapKivupa, cancer, ulcer i^IIippocrates). Modern nomencla- ture has been developed from this, and has been carried out by Virchow with especial thoroughness. The old Grecian term for tu- mor in general is dyicog, bend, bending, bulk, mass, etc.; hence T'7;'- chow has termed the study of tumors “ onkologie.” The term (pvpa, (j)VT6v, growth, also used by Hippocrates, is now rarely employed.