455 CARIES. chronic ostitis and solution of bone, and at present this is very gener- ally done; but formerly the name caries was only used for ulceration accompanied by suppuration, for open ulcers of the bones. The inti- mate connection between chronic inflammation and ulceration, which we previously studied in the soft parts, also exists between chronic ostitis and caries. If you desire to designate the character of the inflammation more specifically, it may be done conveniently by certain additions which you already know from the chapter on ulcers. Per- haps it would be better to gradually drop the name caries and replace it by ostitis with various additions, such as rarefying, osteoplastic, ulcerating, granular, etc., or only to employ caries for bony defects caused by lacunar erosions. On macerated bones this is always readi- ly recognized; there we are never in doubt as to whether the bone is carious, for we call carious all defects that look as if gnawed out; they might very well be termed lacunar or corrosive defects. But on living patients it requires accurate knowledge and rich experience to decide certainly whether a bone which a sound enters readily is only softened or has large lacunar defects. Up to this point we have only studied superficial caries ; hereafter we shall come to central caries, which holds the same relation to the superficial that the ab- scess'does to an open ulcer. In the soft parts I showed you the de- velopment of the process of ulceration in a fungous ulcer, where the productive character predominates. This has its analog}^ in bone, in ostitis fungosa (by caries sicca, Virchow and Volkmann mean caries with proliferating granulations and destruction of bone without sup- puration), where there is as yet no destruction of the inflammatory new formation, but where interstitial granulation-tissue has grown all through the bone. This does not by any means always occur to the extent we have just supposed. If you bear in mind the atonic, torpid ulcer of the soft parts, and remember how the neoplasia rapid- ly breaks down into pus, undergoes caseous transformation, or disin- tegrates, and simply apply the same changes to bone, you will readi- ly understand the case ; this also gives caries another character ; there are very torpid, atonic forms of caries where the neoplasia causes but little destruction of bone, and then disintegrates or under- goes caseous metamorphosis, and thus in the living organism there is a sort of maceration of the diseased bone; the soft parts in the bone suppurate; if this happen hefore the bone is dissolved, the portion of bone that has suppurated is necrosed. Here, also, most of the fault of the disintegration is due to deficient vascularity. But we must look to constitutional influences for the causes why we have in one case fungous or proliferating, in another atonic caries. We shall become acquainted with other forms of ostitis when we come to speak of primary chronic inflammation in bones.