145 COXTUSIONS OF BLOOD-VESSELS. cause -visible symptoms which vary, partly from the quantity of the effused blood, partly from the distribution of the blood in the tissue. The more vascular a part, and the more severely contused, the greater the extravasation. The extravasated blood, if it escapes from the vessels slovvlv, forms a passage-way between the connective-tissue bundles, especially those of the subcutaneous connective tissue and muscles ; this must cause infiltration of the tissue with blood and con- sequent swelling. These diffuse and subcutaneous haesmorrhages we term sicggillatiom or suffusions. The more relaxed and yielding, and the easier to press ajjart the tissue is, the more extensive will be the infiltration of blood, if it flows gradually but continually from the vessels for a time. Hence, as a rule, we find the effusions of blood in the eyelids and scrotum quite extensive, because the subcutaneous connective tissue there is so loose. The thinner the skin, the more readily and quickly we shall recognize the suggillation; the blood has a blue color through the skin, or presses into it and gives it a steel- blue color. Under the conjunctiva bulbi, on the contrary, the blood appears quite red, as this membrane is so thin and transparent. Blood extravasations in the cutis itself appear as red spots (purpura) or stria3 (vibices); but in this form they are very rarely due to contu- sion, they are caused by spontaneous rupture of the vessels; whether because the walls of the vessels are particularly thin in some persons, as in those already mentioned as being of hmmorrhagic diathesis, or because they are especially brittle and tender from some unknown condition of the blood, as in scorbutis, some forms of typhus, morbus maculosus Werlhofii, etc. Contusion of the cutis may usually be rec- ognized by a very dark-blue color, passing into brown ; also by stria- fion of the epidermis with so-called cha]ys, or, as they are technically termed, excoriations., flaying of the skin. If much blood escape suddenly from the vessels and be effused in the loose cellular tissue, a more or less bounded cavity is formed. This form of effusion of blood is called ecchymosis, ecchymoma, hce~ matoma, or blood-tumor. Whether the skin be discolored at the same time, depends on how deep the blood lies under it. In deep effusions of blood, diffuse as -well as circumscribed, we often find no discoloration of the skin, especially soon after the injury; we only perceive a tumor wdiose rapid development immediately-after an injury at once shows its nature ; this tumor feels soft and tense. The cir- cumscribed effusion of blood offers the very characteristic feeling of fluctuation. You may most readily obtain a clear idea of this feeling by filling a bladder with water and tlien feeling its walls. In surgical practice the recognition of fluctuation is very important, for there are innumerable cases where it is important to determine whether we