Vll CAKCINOMATA. nwk on malignant new formations in tlie prostate by 0. W^ss, it ap- pears that, in almost every case, these carcinomata also prove fatal solely from the local symptoms. Lymphatic glands and adjacent parts become infected; there are very rarely secondary cancers of in- ternal organs, 5, Thyroid gland and ovary. I place these two organs together, as they both originate from true glandular epithelium, and both con- tain follicles, formed by choking off of glandular canaliculi. In can- cerous disease both organs fall back into the embryonal type, i. e., the follicles grow again to tubes and canaliculi, from which again new- foUicles are developed; but some of these carcinomata, which are rare, consist entirely of cell-canaliculi, without any development of follicles. Young persons, as well as old ones, may be attacked by this form of cancer. Its course is usually rapid, for the cancers of the thyroid grow into the windpipe or close it by pressure, while the ovarian tumors are characterized by their enormous growth and rapid adhesions with the surrounding parts, and by the speedy development of ascites prove dangerous. From variations in their course and anatomical structure we must separate the different forms of carcinoma; we may consider their treatment together. Treatment of the carcinomatous dyscrasia (car- cinosis) is usually regarded as ayxzr^fe honteuse of medicine, I can- not admit this. It is true we cannot cure the disease; but is not this also true of many other acute and chronic diseases ? Can we arrest a cold in the head at any stage ? Can we check the course of the acute exanthema or typhus ? Can -we cure tuberculosis ? Certainly not; in all these cases, as in many others, the disease runs its typical course; we give little medicine, at least we avoid all heroic reme- dies. In carcinosis our therapeutic impotence only appears so great because the disease almost always proves fatal, and we can do nothing to oppose its course; in fact, our treatment is as inefficacious in coryza as in carcinosis ; but the former is not a fatal disease, hence no special demand is made on the physician. We have become accus- tomed to failing to cure cold in the head ; we must grow accustomed to the course of cancerous as to that of some other diseases ; this tvill not interfere with our sympathy for these poor patients, nor must it prevent our striving for increased knowledge and improved treat- ment of the disease. I think that much may yet be attained in this direction. The indications for treatment are to remove the cancerous tumor as soon as possible, so as to avoid inlnction, or at least obstruct its course, and thus diminish the evils accompanying it.