148 CONTUSIONS OF THE SOFT PAllTS WITHOUT WOUNDS. often quite thick. Here we have the same conditions as in large fibrinous exudations in the pleura ; there also the fibrous deposits on the walls greatly interfere with reabsorption. This can only take place perfectly when the fibrine disintegrates to molecules, becomes fluid, and thus absorbable ; or when it is organized to connective tis- sue, and supplied with blood and lymph vessels. This is not so very rare in pleuritic deposits. But there ‘is also another fate for such extrava- sations. The fluid portion of the blood may be completely reabsorbed, and a firm tumor composed of concentric, onion-like layers may remain. This results occasionally from extravasations in the labia majora; a so- called fibrous tumor is thus formed; in the cavity of the uterus, also, such fibrous tumors occasionally develop. Some hmmatomata may be partly organized to connective tissue, and gradually take up lime-salts and entirely calcify ; a rare termination, but one that occurs in effu- sions of blood in large goitres. Another mode is the transformation of the blood-tumor to a cyst; this is seen in the brain, and in soft tumors. Besides other modes of origin, some cysts in goitres may owe their origin to such effusions. By a cyst or encysted tumor we mean sacs or bags containing more or less fluid. The contents of these cysts, resulting from extravasation of blood, are darker or lighter ac- cording to their age; indeed, the blood-red may totally disappear from them, and the contents become quite clear or only slightly clouded by fat molecules. In large circumscribed extravasations you will find numerous and beautifully-formed hematoidin crystals more rarely than in small diffuse ones, for in the former fatty disintegration of the elements of the blood predominates, hence excretion of choles- terine crystals is more common in them. The capsule enclosing these old effusions arises partly from organization of the peripheral parts of the blood-clot, partly from the circumjacent tissue. Buppiit'otion of circumscribed extravasations is far more frequent than the two last described metamorphoses, but is not so common as reabsorption. The inflammation in the vicinity, and the plastic pro- cess in the peripheral part of the extravasation, from which, in the two preceding cases, the thickened connective tissue was developed, which encapsulated the blood, assiune a more acute character in the case we are about to speak of; a boundary layer is formed here also, but not slowly and gradually as in the preceding cases, but by rapid cell-formation ; plastic infiltration of the tissue does not lead to devel- opment of connective tissue, but to suppuration ; the inflammation after a time attacks the cutis, and it suppurates from within outward, and is finally perforated, and the pus mixed with blood is evacuated; the walls of the cavity come together, cicatrize and grow together, and healing thus takes place. We shall speak more exactlv of this