517 TREATMENT. So far, I have briefly given you my maxims regarding- the tieat- ment of fungous inflammation of the joint, but I must not neglect to call your attention to the fact that other surgeons have different views on the subject. There are still advocates of the strong classical anti- phlogistic treatment, who, even in chronic inflammations of the joints, from time to time apply leeches or wet cups, put on compresses with lead-water, and give cathartics; later they use cataplasms, and finally moxse and the hot iron. If the disease continues to advance, if fis- tulm have formed here and there, if the patient has become very anaemic, they consider amputation indicated, especially when thei’e is crepitation in the joint. This was the old belief; the results were gen- erally unfavorable or favorable, as we may choose to consider them; that is, they were the latter so far as regards the favorable course of the amputation, which was made, sooner or later, under such circum- stances. Even now it astonishes me to see how often amputations of the thigh are made for tumor albus of the knee, in many hospitals; it is not saying much to mention that, in my own hospital service, I have rarely found thigh-amputations indicated for caries of the knee ; but it appeared to me very remarkable that, during the seven years [ was assistant in the surgical clinic at the University of Berlin, there were only two amputations of the thigh for caries of the knee, while formerly, in the reiJorts of the smallest hospitals, several such ampu- tations were reported every year. I am much inclined to refer the more favorable results, the rarer indications for amputation, to the treatment of the disease by the plaster-bandage, which was chiefly in- troduced and persistently carried out by Von Langenhech ; and I am firmly convinced that, by it, a large number of limbs have been preserved in a relatively good condition, which, in foi-mer times, would certainly have been amputated. I would not recommend the abstrac- tion of blood in chronic disease of the joints; it can only prove bene- ficial in subacute exacerbations, and in these verv cases we have better remedies, which are not at the same time injurious; for it is certainly improper to abstract l)lood once, or even oftener, from pa- tients who are inclined to anaemia by their disease itself. In some cases of subacute attacks in chronic inflammation of the joints, cold is an excellent application; in such cases I now use ice mth good re- sults ; but I cannot say that cold would be particularly beneficial in cases that run their course without outward symptoms of inflamma- tion ; and it is no slight affair to treat a patient with ice for years, keeping him in the same position in bed with a bladder of ice on his knee, which, at any rate, does not give him much pain. Esmarch claims very favorable results for persevering treatment with ice. Now I must speak of the persistent application of heat^ which may be ac-