SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 50 the essential part of the inflammation, and to term their occurrence and typical course the “ inflammatory process.” I would not weaken your interest in these things at the outset; but the prevailing tenden- cies render it necessary for me to call your attention to the fact that (as in all organic growth, and in each transformation of the tissues of the body) form is always the product of chemical or physical power inherent in the material sujDplied; the inflammatory, like every other physiological process, is chemico-physiological; this we never see, even with the best microscopes; we merely perceive the results of its action. These results, destruction and new formation of tissue, have something peculiar in their typical course; but they vary as widely as life and death; the tissue may die suddenly or not for years ; of two neoplasia of the same structure, one may form in a few days, the other may require months; very difi’erent causes may induce very similar new formations. But I dread confusing you, if I enter further into the difficulties always arising when we speak of inflam- mation in general. So let me go at once into detail; and we ^vill hereafter return to the general question of inflammation. The changes after injury of the different tissues are particularly seen in the vessels, in the injured tissue itself, and in its nerves. The influence of the latter on the process is, however, so obscure, that we shall not consider it. We shall at once dismiss as unanswerable the question, whether the finest nutrient (vasomotor) nerves, which lose themselves in the different tissues (for the question can only arise con- cerning T;hese), have any direct influence on the changes occurring in the tissues, and in the vessels themselves ; and the rather so, as the ends of the nerves have only been certainly recognized in a few parts of the body, while for other parts it is entirely unknown how the nu- ti’ient nerves act, and what relation they have to the capillary vessels. You will have already had your attention called to the imaginable pos- sibilities and probabilities on this point, in the lectures on physiology and general pathology. Hence, if we say but little about the nerves in what follows, it is because we know little of their action in this special process, not because we wish to deny their influence. Let us first consider the simplest tissue; let us suppose a vertical section, through the connective tissue, with a closed capillary system at the surface of the skin, magnified 300-400 times. Here you have a diagram of such a system. Let there be an incision down through the tissue; the capillaries bleed, the bleeding soon ceases, the Avound is accurately united. Now what takes place ? The blood coagulates in the capillaries as far as the next branches, •