INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 248 fectly quiet; it is surrounded with moist bandages, and cold compresses are applied; the swelling is rarely so great as to demand other anti- phlogistic remedies. In the shoulder-joint after ten to fourteen days we begin passive motion and continue it till active movements can be made and the arm is fully useful; frequently, it is many months before movements are quite free, and elevating the arm is the last motion to return. In other joints that have less mobility, active movements may be permitted much sooner; thus they are restored especially early in the elbow and hip-joints, and in the latter joints we may permit attempts at motion the earlier, because there luxations do not so readily recur. If active motions be permitted too soon after reduction of a dis- location, esiDecially in those joints where dislocation readily recurs, as in the shoulder and lower jaw, and if the luxation recurs once or sev- eral times before the capsular opening has healed, occasionally the capsule does not heal completely, or there is so much distensibility of the capsular cicatrix that the patient only has to make a careless motion to luxate the part again. Then we have the state called habitual luxation^ a very annoying state, especially in the lower jaw. I knew a woman who had a dislocation of the jaw and did not take care of herself long enough afterward, so that it soon returned and had to be reduced again ; the capsule was so much stretched that, if, in eating, she took too large a morsel of food between the back teeth, she at once luxated the jaw ; she accustomed herself to the manoeuvre of slipping it into place, so that she could do it with the greatest facility. Such an habitual luxation of the shoulder may occur in the same way. I have seen a young man, who, when gesticulating vio- lently, had carefully to avoid raising his arm quickly, as he almost alwa3's dislocated it by this motion ; such a state is very annoying, and is difficult to cure; recovery would only be possible by long rest of the joint, but patients rarely have inclination or patience for this treatment. It is well for such patients to wear a bandage that Avill prevent lifting or throwing back the arm too much; if the luxa- tion be avoided for a few years, it w'ill not recur so readily. If a simple dislocation be not recognized and reduced, or if, for various reasons, we cannot reduce it, a certain amount of mobility is nevertheless restored, which may be considerably increased bj' regu- lar use. From the relation of the head of the bone to adjacent bony processes, and from disjilacement of muscles, it may be readily under- stood that, for purely mechatucal reasons, certain motions will be im- possible, while others may approximate the normal mobility. But, if the movements be not methodically restored, the limb remains still, the muscles become atrophied, and the limb is of little use. The