CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 512 the patient; in fact, this is so to such an extent that from the vital condition of the local affection vve may often make a decision as to the general health of the patient. Fungous inflammation of the joint with caries sicca, and a disposition to cicatricial contraction of the new formation, usually occurs in persons otherwise healthy, and in these cases it is often difficult to find any cause for the chronicity of the disease, which was said to have been first induced by cold, fa- tigue, or injury of some sort. We also find the most luxuriant, spongy granulations and secretion of muco-pus in tolerably healthy, or at least well-nourished persons, in fat, scrofulous children, also as the chronic continuation of an acute articular inflammation in per- sons previously healthy, who have become anaemic from the long sup- puration. Great tendency of the neoplasia to break down into pus, or to molecular disintegration, is usually a sign of bad nutrition; we find thin, badly-smelling pus in large amounts, with excessive ul- ceration of the skin, and fistulous openings, that look as if cut out with a iDunch, in the articular inflammation, with or without caries, of old cachectic patients, in badly-nourished tuberculous subjects and scrofulous children. Here we may have the same course of affairs as in torpid cai-ies; the neoplasm is very short lived, it breaks down al- most as soon as formed ; and along with the caries we have necrosis, as in the small bones of the wrist, more rarely in the epiphyses, also caseous degeneration of the neoplasm. Fie. 96. Atonic nlccralion of the cartilage from the knee-joint of a child; the cartilage-cells, which.only proliferate slightly, undergo fatty degeneration, and they, with the intercellular substance, oroak down very rapidlj'. Maguiflea 250 diameters. We could distinctly separate this atonic form of chronic suppura- tive inflammation of the joint from the fungous variety, but avoid doing so : first, that we may not disturb the general description; sec- ondly, because this form also often begins as a typical fungous syno- vitis, and subsequently passes into the torjiid form as the nutritive state of the patient declines. We find it chiefly on autopsy, and should altogether mistake the earlier stages if we did not study the disease in resected and amputated joints. I shall not continue the anatomical details, which might be carried much further, but what has