179 TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. isfies me. No method guarantees a perfect immunity from acci- dental traumatic diseases, and even in the open treatment of wounds there may be superficial adhesions and formation of pockets in which decomposition of the secretion may occur. We must learn to antici- pate such things. Many surgeons now prefer the method of occlusion by thoroughly disinfected dressings and early application of drainage-tubes for car- rying off secretion, after method. It is asserted that by this means a milder course is secured, as in subcutaneous contusions ; that the shreds of dead tissue do not decompose, but dry up without smell and are thrown off with very little suppuration; that the blood-clots are either directly organized or escape from the wound as odorless gray crumbs; that acute septicmmia and jDrogressive sup- purations never occur; and that the severe accidental traumatic dis- eases, of which we shall hereafter speak, are never developed. 1 recommend this method to you most warmly. In general I would advise you, as students and practitioners, to study and accurately learn one of the modes of treatment recom- Tnended to you, and not to be easily led off from your therapeutic principles. In your practice employ what you have well and thor- oughly learned. Believe me, your patients and yourselves will thus come out the best. In the treatment of secondary inflammation, most careful prophv- laxis is to be recommended ; avoidance of congestion of the wound, catching cold, all mechanical and chemical irritations, and especially infection. Hereafter, when speaking of accidental traumatic diseases in general, v/e shall state what may be done in the latter respect by ventilation and proper use of the room in the hospital. For avoiding local infection of the wound by dressings or instruments, we would give the following advice: Be exceedingly careful in the dressings, cleansing the wound, choice of compresses, charpie, and wadding; al- ways see to the most perfect cleanliness of the mattresses, straw beds, covering.3, oiled muslin, parchment-paper, and in short of every thing about the patient. The bleeding of the wound on dressing should be avoided by carefully syringing it with Esm.archh wound-douche, of which there should be two or three in every ward ; we should never npply dry compresses, charpie, or wadding to the wound, but should previoasly wet all these articles in solution of chloride of lime or other antiseptic, and later, when the wound begins to cicatrize, with lead- water; and for removing the pus we should never use sponges, nor saould we use them in operating, but do it all by syringing or by wiping off with wadding wet with water or chlorine-water" if we cannot avoid the use of sponges, they should be new ones, and disinfect