389 TETANUS. tliii-d clay trismus and tetanus appeared suddenly, and proved fatal iu eighteen hours. It is no use to build theories as to how this particu- lar variety of injury of the nerves should induce tetanic spasms, while they are very rare after simple division of the nerves, for there a7’o many cases where tetanus has arisen from simple wounds of the skin, from granulating surfaces fully developed and cicatrizing, or even after a blister, the sting of a bee, etc. It is, however, remarkable that the disease is particularly frequent after injuries of the extremities, especially of the hands and feet, while it is rare after considerable injuries higher up the limb and on the body. I also think that I have found the cases, where tetanus developed from granulating wounds, tc be more chronic and milder than those where it has developed soon after the injuiy. Mose thinks that tetanus appears particularly in cases that are treated badly or not at all; my experience is opposed to this. After applying in vain to the nerves and tendinous tissue, the various changes of temperature were resorted to to explain the occurrence of tetanus; some said that it was favored by hot, sultry weather. I cannot altogether deny this view, for hitherto I have only seen numerous cases of traumatic tetanus in hot, sultry weather, but small epidemics of it have been seen in winter. Others ascribe the chief blame to catching cold from draughts or to rapid changes of tem- perature. Finally, there are still others who do not believe that the nervous system is primarily afiected, but think that the blood first becomes diseased and acts secondarily on the nervous system. Within a short time Hose has resuirected an old idea, that tetanus, like hydro- phobia, is to be regarded as a primary blood-disease. It cannot be denied that the two diseases are much alike; a proof of their being actually analogous would be most strikingly given by inducing hydro- phobia, by inoculating animals with the blood or secretions from a tetanus patient. Of course, we should not think of inoculating another man. At present, I strongly incline to the humoral view of tetanus as due to a peculiar poison, although I have no proofs of it. At all events, the blood of a tetanus patient should be injected into a dog, to show whether tetanus may be transferred through human blood to a dog, and also whether it has a pyrogenous action; should tetanus appear in the dog, it might be regarded as proved that tetanus was a humoral disease; if the experiment be negative, it proves nothing against the humoral causes of tetanus, it only shows that the blood of a mmi with tetanus will not induce tetanus in a dog; it would still have to be decided whether the blood of a dog with tetanus trans- ferred to another dog, would prove as inactive. The fact that tetanus may be confined to one limb, or even to one hand as I liave seen it speaks in favor of a local cause, which may be limited to the nerves •