486 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. if the individual affected be constitutionally diseased, or becomes so from the continued suppuration accompanying the process. In these long-continued suppurations from bone, albuminuria not unfrequently develops, although of rather mild form, I do not know whether this may in time spontaneously disappear after the cavity in the bone has healed ; it would be interesting and of prognostic importance to collect observations on this point. After removal of the sequestrum, the thick- ening of the osseous envelope ceases, and the process of ossification establishes itself in the cavity filled with granulations. What I have just demonstrated to you in diagrams, you here see in these beautiful preparations from the anatomical and surgical collection of Zurich, You now know the ordinary normal course of a necrosis. I must next introduce you to some deviations from this normal course. You will remember that, when speaking of acute periostitis, I told you that occasionally the epqDhyseal cartilages also ossified (where they still existed, that is, in young persons). When this takes place simulta- neously in the upper and lower ends (a very rare case), of course the sequestrum will be detached, and detached very early, so early that no bone can have yet formed in the pus-cavity, or, if it has, it must still be very weak. If the bone be now extracted, there is nothing yet formed to replace it, nor does any thing form, because the irritation which gives rise to the production of bone is absent, this cause of irri- tation being the sequestrum, as long as it remains as a foreign body in the bone ; hence, under these circumstances, if the sequestrum be extracted early, the extremity becomes boneless and unserviceable. When the epiphysis cartilage suppurates at one end, e. g., the lower end, the sequestrum remains firmly attached above, and the break- ing down of the bone must go on slowly as in other cases; it may, however, happen, as I sa^w in one case in the thigh,that the lower end, Fig. 85. Necrosis of the lower half of the tUapliysis of the femur, with dctacluncnt of the ciilphyjcsl curtilage, uud porfc rutlou of the sktu.