SIMPLE I^X'1SED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 58 LECTURE VI. Changes m the Tissue during Healing by the First Intention.—Plastic Inflltrntion.-- Inflammatory New Formation.—Retrogression to the Cicatri.v.—Anatomical Evi- deuces of Inflammation.—Conditions under which Healing by First Intention doe# not occur.—Union of Parts that have been completely separated The dilatation of the capillaries and the exudation of blood-serum that usually accompanies it, which we have found as the first effect of the wound, and which is most readily seen in the living tissue, as above mentioned, cannot of course by itself cause two flaps that are brought in apposition to unite organically—changes must take place on the surfaces of the wound, by which the latter are to a certain e.x- tent dissolved and melted into each other; just as you render two ends of sealing-wax soft by heat, to fasten them together, so here the sub- stance itself must become the means of union, in order that it should be firm and intimate. In fact, this is the final result of the healing process, both in the soft parts and in the bone. Let us keep in mind the above diagram (Fig*. 2), and suppose that only connective tissue and vessels have been wounded, and that their reunion is the question for consideration. As you already know, con- nective tissue consists of cellular elements and filamentary intercellular substance. The cellular elements are partly the stable, long- known connective-tissue corpuscles, i. e., flat, nucleated cells, Avith long processes, Avhich adhere to the connective-tissue bundles, partly the wandering cells discoA'^ered by JReclclinghausen, which are identical Avith white-blood and lymph cells, in form, species, and vital peculiar- ities, are probably formed for the most part in the lymphatic glands, through the lymphatics enter the blood, from the capillaries and veins, occasionally Avander into the suiTOunding tissue (as discovered by Striclcer), there become fixed tissue-cells, or again (as observed by Tiering) enter the lymphatic or blood vessels, or undergo metamor- phoses not yet discovered. If Ave examine the tissue of the flaps of the Avound a few hours after the injury, Ave shall find it full of Avandering cells. These in- crease enormously from hour to hour; they infiltrate the fibrous tissue, already softened by SAvelling, and eAmn Avander from one flap of the Avound to the other. During this cell-activity, and probably on ac- count of it, the connective-tissue intercellular substance gradually changes to a homogeneous gelatinous substance, Avhich gradually disa|> pears as the cells increase, possibly being consumed by them; so that there is a time Avhen the surfaces of the AVOund in apposition consist