INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 309 At present we are speaking only of apparently spontaneous acute inflammations of the joints. In many cases they are evidently due to catching cold, in other cases their causes are obscure. Some of the more subacute cases are of metastatic nature and appear as pymmia. But at present we shall speak oul}’’ of the idiopathic inflammations, which, in contradistinction to the traumatic, are termed rheumatic^ as they are often due to cold. Patients requiring your aid for such acute inflam- mations of the joints, will present somewhat dilferent symptoms. If, for illustration, we again take the knee-joint, you will have about the following picture: A strong, otherwise healthy man has taken to bed> because for a day or two his knee has been swollen, hot, and painful; you find this on examining the knee, you also find distinct fluctuation in the joint, and that the patella is somewhat lifted up, and always rises again if pressed down; the skin over the joint is not red ; the patient lies with his leg stretched out in bed, has no fever, and, if you ask him, can bend and extend the knee, though with some difliculty. You here have an acute serous spiovitis, or hydrops genu acittus. The anatomical condition of the knee is as follows : the synovial membrane is slightly swollen and moderately vascular; the articular cavity full of serum, which has mingled with the synovia; there are a few flocculi of fibrine in the fluid, the rest of the joint is healthy. Anatomically the state is just like a subacute bursitis tendinum or a moderate pleurisy. This disease is generally cured without difficulty ; quiet, re- peatedly painting with tincture of iodine, or a few blisters, or com- pression with wet bandages, suffice to remove the affection in a few days, or at least to take off its acuteness; all the symptoms of the acute inflammation may subside, the patient may go about with scarcely any difficulty, but there remains too much fluid in the joint, a hydrops chronicus of the joint is left. You may be called to another patient with inflammation of the knee-joint. A few days previously the young man has caught cold ; soon after this his knee has begun to pain, high fever has come on, perhaps a heavy chill; the joint has constantly grown more painful. The patient lies in bed, with the knee flexed so that the thigh is strongly rotated outward and abducted; he resists every attempt to move the leg, as it causes him terrible pain. The knee-joint is greatly swollen and feels hot, but there is no fluctuation, the skin is oedematous and red about the knee, tlie whole leg also is oedematous ; on account of the pain it is impossible to extend the knee or to flex it more. What a contrast to the former case! If you have a chance to examine the joiqt in this stage, you find great swelling of the synovial mem- brane ; it is very red, puffy, and microscopically appears infiltrated with plastic matter and scrum. In the joint there is usually a little