410 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. ceous disease, a whole year, during which he had a continued febris remittens; he finally died from general dropsy. The course of chronic inflammation maybe classed under two gen- eral heads. In the first case, even the commencement of the disease is indistinct, and can scarcely be stated with any certainty by the pa- tient. Sometimes it is a swelling, a moderate pain, or a slight dis- turbance of function that has called attention to a morbid state. Cases which have begun so insidiously usually maintain this character in their further course. In other cases, the chronic inflammation is a remnant of an-acute process; the chronic course is interrupted from time to time by acute attacks, with fever. We can say least that is definite about the duration of chronic inflammation in general, as this above all things depends on the exciting causes, to which we shall soon come. I only entreat you to bear in mind that chronic inflammation, like the acute, has a tendency to terminate, to have a typical end, for the new formation never goes beyond the develop- ment of certain characteristic metamorphoses of tissue, which lead to development of connective tissue, or of a cicatrix in some wa}', unless the diseased tissue is destroyed by disintegration. Why it is important to remember this will be clearer to you when we treat of the limitation of other new formations, such as actual tumors. Of course the new formation attains no typical end when its causes can- not be removed, or do not spontaneously disappear, and when organs are destroyed that are necessary to life, or when the strength is ex- hausted by suppuration. LECTURE XXIX. General Etiology of Clyonic Inflammation.—External Continued Irritation.—Causes ih the Body.—Empirical Idea of Diathesis and Dyscrasia.—General Symptomatology and Treatment of Morbid Diatheses and Dyscrasico. 1. The Lymphatic Diathesis tScrofula); 2. Tuberculous Dyscrasia (Tuberculosis); 3. The Arthritic Diathesis ; 4. The Scorbutic Dyscrasia; 6. Syphilitic Dyscrasia. To-day we come to one of the most important parts, not only of this section, but of all medicine, that is, to the causes of chronic in~ flammation. We saw how acute inflammation resulted from an irri- tant acting otrce, and varied according to the anatomical condition of the irritated part, and the nature .and extent of the irritation, but that it ran a relatively short and typical course. Now we have to deal with inflammations that last several months or years; here there must be a continued cause, a long-acting irritation, or some abnormal reaction to simple irritation. These continued irritations maj' be of