ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE CUTIS. 281 from the commencement. If, from an existing point of inflammation, a plilogogeuous material enter the blood, and thence specifically affect any other organ, we call this secondary inflammation “ metastatic.” But these metastatic inflammations may occur in another and much more evident manner, by means of a blood-clot in the veins, as we shall show in the section on thrombosis, embolism, and 23lilebitis. Non-traumatic inflammations may terminate in resolution, in firm organization of the inflammatory product, in suppuration, or in morti- fication. But we will now cease treating this subject in general terms, and pass to the inflammations of the different tissues. 1. ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE CUTIS. The simple forms of acute inflammation of the skin (spots, wheals papules, vesicles, pustules), which are grouped under the common name of “ acute exanthemata,” belong to internal medicine. Only erysipelatous inflammation, furuncle, and carbuncle, are generally spoken of as true primary inflammations of tlie cutis. I will here remind you that very frequently the skin is secondarily affected, from inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue and muscles, or even of the periosteum or bones. (a.) Erysipelatous inflammation is located chiefly in the papillary layer and in the rete Malpighii. The local symptoms are great red- ness and oedematous swelling of the skin, pain on being touched, and subsequent detachment of epidermis ; these are occasionally accom- j^anied by very high fever, out of proportion to the extent of the local afl'ection. The disease lasts from one day to three or four weeks. Any part of the skin or mucous membranes may be attacked, but idiopathic erysipelas is particularly frequent in the head and face Like the acute exanthemata of the skin, according to the views cl many pathologists, erysijDelas of the head and face should also be re- garded as a symptomatic cutaneous inflammation ; that is, that the local affection was only one symptom of an acute general disease. In that case, surgery would have as little to do with erysipelas as with scarlatina, measles, etc. ; but, as it occurs especially in wounded per- sons, and particularly often around wounds, we must study it more attentively. I consider erysipelas traumaticum not as a symj^tomatio inflammation of the skin, but as a capillary lymphangitis of the skin, which is always due to infection. We shall treat of this disease more closely among the accidental traumatic diseases, and content ourselves here with having called attention to its relationshijD. {b.) The furuncle or jflilegmon is a peculiar form of inflammation of the skin, usually of tyjiical course. Some of you may know it