2G0 GUNSHOT-WOUNDS. i first load of patients, having been already notified of the commence- ment of the battle by the thunder of the artillerj'. Here begins the accurate examination of patients, who were only temporarily dressed on the field, and here operating goes on most actively. Amputations, resections, extractions of bullets, etc., are done by wholesale, and the surgeon who has been anxious for his first operation on a living patient may operate till he stops from exhaustion. This continues till far into the night; the fight lasts till late in the evening, and it is near morning before the last loads of wounded come in. With bad lights, on a temporary operating-table, and often with unskilful nurses for assistants, the surgeon must at once examine every patient, down to the last, and then operate and dress his wounds. In the field-hos- pitals the wounded have a period of rest, and, if possible, those who have been operated on or are seriously hurt should not be moved to another hospital till healthy suppuration begins and healing has at least commenced. This cannot always be done. Occasionally the place where the field-hospital has been established must be vacated. If one belongs to the vanquished partjq and the enemy takes the place where the field-hospital was established, the surgeons are usually taken prisoners with their wounded; for, even when the enemy is most humane, after a great battle there is often such a demand for surgeons that those of the enemy cannot take the proper care of wounded prisoners. A few years since, in Geneva, a convention of European powers determined that surgeons and sanitary supplies should be con sidered neutral. Although there are some practical difficulties in carrying out this principle, it has done great good in the wars of late years, and is capable of still further development. At all events, the idea of considering a wounded enemy as an enemy no longer, but as a patient, is to be j^rized as a beautiful evidence of advancing hu- manity. When the wounded have all been brought under cover, bedded, and the necessary operations done, and the diet, etc., has been at- tended to, arrangements should be made for their proper disposition. Permanent collection of many wounded men in one place is injurious, and, when the seat of war is a poor country, with few rsiilroad con- nections, the care of the wounded is particularly difficult. Hence, they should be sent ofl’ as soon as possible. This may be done, even * witli the severely wounded, when there is a railroad handy; when the * transportation is less convenient, the more slightly wounded at least ^ can be removed. Tliis system of scattering, which of late has been conducted with excellent results, requires great circumspection and trouble from the superior medical and military authorities, but it has proved advantageous. If houses (barracks), or, in summer, tents, CJiu