SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 80 the previous views on this subject (p. 48). “ Inflammation ” is a modification of the normal pliysiological processes in the different tissues of the body, a “disturbance of nutrition” {Virchow) whose histopoetic results you now know and of whose destructive, deleteri- ous actions you will hereafter hear. Any part of the body was said to be “ inflamed ” wlien it was hot and red; as it is then generally swollen and painful also, this name is applied to processes Avhere the above symptoms occur. The word inflammation originated when there were no true pathologico-anatomical ideas ; even the oldest ob- servers understood that something unusual was going on in the tissues, that they were much heated {mflammatio),andL from the first this process has been regarded as an intense increase of the vital processes. As they could not understand the process itself any bet- ter than we do, they considered the symptoms and tlie results of the process, just as we do; so that doubts often arose if it were proper to speak of inflammation when one or other symptom was absent or not well marked, just as it is to-day. We now know that inflammation is not an existence outside of the body, which makes its way into some part and there grows, and must be expelled like Beelzebub, and we know why “ tumor, rubor, calor, dolor,” are caused by in- flammation, but although any one usually recognizes an acute inflam- mation as such and designates it correctly, it still remains difficult as well clinically as anatomico-pathologically to give an exact definition of “ inflammation.” There is no difficulty in distinguishing an oak from an ass; but, if you attempt to generalize and give a sharp defi- nition between plants and animals, you will have the greater difficulty the more you know of the details of botany and zoology. The word “inflammation” is in use, and so accurately designates those pro- cesses to which it was first applied, that it would be useless to try to root it out. By it we understand the above-described combination of processes in the tissues, which in the present case arise from a purely mechanical irritation (wound) acting only once. How much hypermmia, exudation, and new formation of tissue is required before we can term the process inflammation cannot be stated absolutely. It seems to be agreed by surgeons and anatomists to designate as “ inflammatory ” the purely regenerative proces&es^ that is, the neo- plastic tissues, which directly or indirectly replace the loss of sub- stance. If we consider the process in the modern histological sense, it cannot be accurately defined from the inflammatory, slight as it may be occasionally. From a purely clinical point of view, the distinction is easier, as we often meet cases without anj’^ of the four cardinal symptoms on the edges of the wound; and still the diflerence be- tween a slight redness, swelling, and sensitiveness of the borders of