9 INTRODUCTION. ji the drawing-rooms as workers of miracles, especially as cancer-doc- tors, herb-doctors, somnambulists, etc. Let us now inquire the rela- tion, of those who practised surgery, to the above company. This branch of medicine was occasionally resorted to by almost all of the above ; still there were special surgeons, who united into guilds and formed honorable societies; they received their practical knowledge first from a master, under whom they studied, and subsequently from books and scientific institutions. Surgical practice was chiefly confined to these persons, who were mostly located, but sometimes travelled about as “ hernia doctors,” “ operators for stone,” “ ocuhsts,” etc. We shall become acquainted with some excellent men among these old mas- ters of our art. Besides the above, surgery was also practised by the “ bathers,” and later by “ barbers ” also, as it was among the Romans, and they were permitted by law to attend to “ minor surgery,” e. g., they could cup, bleed, treat fractures, sprains, etc. It will be readily understood that some strife would arise about the various and some- times indefinite privileges of these different grades of physicians, especially in large cities, where all classes of them were collected. This was particularly the case in Paris. The surgical society there, the “ College de St. Come,” claimed the same privileges as members of the medical faculty; they were particularly desirous for the Bacca- laureate and Licentiate. The “ Society of Barbers and Bathers,” again, wished to practise any part of surgery, just like the members of the College de St. Come. To gall the surgeons, the members of the fac- ulty supported the claims of the barbers, and, in spite of mutual tempo- rary compromises, the strife continued; indeed, we may say that it still continues, where there are pure surgeons (surgeons of the first class and barbers) and pure physicians. It is only since about 1850 that the distinction was done away with in almost all the German states, and neither chirurgi puri nor medici puri were made, but only physi- cians who practised medicine, surgery, and obstetrics. To finish the question of external rank, we may notice that in Eng- land alone there is still a tolerably well-marked dividing-line be- tween surgeons and physicians, especially in the cities, while in the country “ general practitioners ” attend to both medical and surgical cases, and have an apothecary-shop even at the same time. In Germany, Switzerland, and France, circumstances often cause a physician to have more surgical than medical practice; but the med- ical staff legally consists of physicians and assistants or barber-sur- geons, who, after examination, are licensed to cup, bleed, etc. This arrangement has finally gone into effect in the army also, where the so-called company surgeon, with the rank of sergeant, formerly had a miserable time under the battalion and regimental physicians.