CONTKACTED MUSCLES. 573 member a child with such a wound in the bend of the elbow, from a burn, which, as assistant in the Berlin clinic, I had to dress daily. The arm was kept extended on a splint, and took six months to heal; finally, the child was discharged, with the arm perfectly movable and the wound healed, and I was very proud of the cure. Two months later I saw the child, with the cicatrix entirely contracted; the arm was at an acute angle, and almost immovable. Subsequently I lost sight of the patient, and do not know what was the final result; but I clearly saw that I had worried myself and the child for months in vain. Several similar cases have radically cured me of the idea that we can, in such cases, do much by orthopedic treatment during the cicatrization of the wound. I advise you to let the wounds heal as they will; large wounds, from burns in children, will even thus give you enough trouble, as they always heal with difiBculty, and readily assume an ulcerative character. In the course of months, often not for years, as its vessels are obliterated and its tissue becomes more like subcutaneous tissue, the cicatrix loses its rigidity, becomes more distensible, tougher, more elastic; hence, with time, mobility in- creases, in case it has been impaired by the cicatrix. You have al- ready been told how you may aid this atrophy of the cicatrix by com- pression and distention. Wlien the cicatrix has finally been reduced to the smallest size, you may occasionally, with advantage, excise the whole or part of it, at intervals, always being careful to obtain healing by the first intention, so that, in place of the thick, scarcely- distensible cicatricial string, you may have a fine linear cutaneous cicati'ix, which may be stretched more I'eadily than the old cicatrix; but if you have suppuration and gaping of the wound after these operations, the result is very doubtful (as, under the same circum- stances, in tenotomy); there again forms a broad, granulating, slowh'- healing wound, and a cicatrix as broad, long, and firm as the previous one. Hence you can only advantageously excise contracted, string- like, thin cicatrices. In removing complete, broad cicatrices, such as occur in the neck after burns, excision is not enough; a portion of distensible skin from the vicinity must be made to grow in the place of the cicatrix. This may be done by sliding a piece of neighboring skin, or by transplanting a flap of skin, according to the rules of plas- tic surgery, which I shall not enter into here. We have now to speak of the treatment of distortions due to an- tagonistic muscular contractions; I have already told you that tenot- omy may be useful in these cases also, but it is only an adjuvant to the treatment; the essential point is the removal of the paralysis. The curability of these contractions, and of the deformities they cause, will depend on what we can do for the paralysis. Here opens the 88