G18 TUMORS. purity, -when they are located in parts where they do not directly endanger life; for the symptoms which they cause when in liver, stomach, or brain, are not those due to the tumors themselves, but are .chiefly disturbances of function in the affected organ. If every typhus was accompanied oy fatal intestinal limmorrhage or perforation of the intestine, we should never have a pure representation of the disease proper, as its course would always be disturbed. We shall here and there remark on the relative frequency of primary localization of tu- mors in the internal organs, but cannot go into the symptomatology and histology of the diseased organ. On these points you will be instructed by the pathological anatomists and in the medical clinic. LECTURE XLVI. 1. Fibromata: a, Soft; A, Hard Fibroma.—Mode of Occurrence; Operations; Ligature; Ecrasement; Galvano-caustic. —2. Li.pomata; Anatomy; Occurrence; Course. 3. Chondromata: Occurrence; Operation.—4. Osteomata: Forms; Operation. 1. FIBROMA—FIBROUS TUMOR—CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOR. Tumors composed chiefly of developed connective tissue are called fibromata. They occur in the followdng forms: a. Soft fibrous or connective-tissue tumors. These are quite frequent, and are located almost exclusively in the cutis; they are composed of a very tough, somewhat oedematous, white tissue, and are usually covered by the thin papillary layer of the cutis. Microscopic examination shows loose connective tissue, as in the cutis. On the surface of the tumor there are almost always pointed papillae, even when the tumor is de- veloped in a part of the skin which normally has no papillae; in the rete Mali^ighii of these formations, there is often a brownish pigment, which rarely extends deeper in the tissue ; they may also have large vessels and abnormal enlargements of the hair and sweat glands on their surface; they are usually loosely hanging (cutis pendula, molus- cum fibrosum), often distinctly pedunculated tumors; they might be termed partial h}'perplasias of the skin, as they consist essentially of the elements of the skin. The growth is very slow, free from pain, and often goes on to the development of enormous tumors. Occasionally such growths are congenital; they may be multiple ; hunch’eds of them may occur on the surface of the body. The congenital cutis-iirolifera- tion is most frequent on the face, generally unilateral, diffuse or in the shape of soft, cock’s-comb-like vegetations. Freckles, pigmented hairy mothcr’s-marks (moles, benignant melanoses, melanoma, pigmented