PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 135 a small puncture of the intestine. If the wound be slit-shaped, the bleeding may also be insignificant if the opening gapes but little; but in other cases severe arterial hremori-hage is the immediate result. If compression be at once made, and a bandage accurately applied, we shall usually succeed not only in arresting the hmmorrhage, but also in closing the puncture in the artery, just as we should one in tlie soft parts. If the bleeding be not arrested, as already stated, we should at once ligate the artery, after enlarging the wound up and downward, or at a higher point in the continuity. The closure of the arterial wound takes place as follows: A blood- clot forms in the more or less gaping wound of the arterial wall; this clot projects slightly into the calibre of the vessel; but externally it is usually somewhat larger, and looks like a mushroom. As described in intra-vascular thrombus, this clot is transformed to connective tissue ; and thus there is permanent organic closure, without change of the calibre of the artery. This normal course may be complicated by layers of new fibrine from the circulating blood, dei^ositing on the part of the plug projecting into the calibre of the vessel, and thus closing it by a clot, forming’ a comjjlete arterial thrombosis; but this is rare. Should it happen, we would have the same result as after a thrombosis following ligation—development of collateral cir- culation, and eventual obliteration of the vessel by organization of the thrombus. Punctured wounds of the arteries do not always take so favorable a course. In many cases, soon after the injury, we notice a tumor at the seat of the young cutaneous cicatrix, which gradually enlarges and perceptibly pulsates isochronically with the systole of the heart and with the arterial pulse. If we place a stethoscope over the tumor, we may hear a distinct buzzing and friction sound. If we compress the chief artery of the extremity above the tumor, the pul- sation and murmur cease and the tumor diminishes somewhat. We call such a tumor an aneurism (from avevpvvEiv, to dilate), and this particular form, arising from wound of an artery, we call aneurisma spurium or traumaticum^ in contradistinction to the aneurisma verum^ arising spontaneously from other diseases of the artery. Whence comes this tumor, and what is it ? Its origin is as fol- loAVS: The external wound is closed by pi-essure, the blood can no longer flow out of it; but it forms a way through the opening, which is not yet firmly closed by the clot, into the soft parts, and winds Artery wounded on tlie side, with clot, font days after the injury; after Porta.