691 CARCINOMATA. cheesy pulp may be squeezed fi-om this ulcerated sirnface; it comes out in a worm-like shape, just as the inspissated sebaceous matter does from the glands of the skin (comedones or maggot); this pulp is a mixture of softened epithelial masses and fat. Sooner or later, there is a gradually-increasing swelling of the neighboring lymphatic glands of the neck, which is not unfrequently painful; by degrees the glandular tumors unite together, or with the primary tumor; neAV points break out, and the local destruction gradually progresses; the new formation also extends in depth, destroying the bones of the face or skull, and taking their place. Death may result from suffocation or hunger, due to pressure of the tumor on the air-passages or oesopha- gus, or from pressure on the brain after perforation of the skull; more frequently, after gradually-increasing marasmus, it results from complete exhaustion, with the signs of excessive cachexia. On au- topsy, we hardly ever find metastatic tumors in internal organs. All of these carcinomata on the head, face, and neck, are much more frequent in men than in women. The average duration of life of patients with cancer of the tongue and oral mucous membrane is a year to a year and a half. Cancers of the lips are radically curable by early and complete extirpation. In previous works, I have termed the above form of flat carcinoma of the skin, “ cicatrizing, atroj^hying, epithelial cancer, or scirrhous cutis,” to define it more accurately from ordinary epithelial cancer. But now it seems to me better to make no special subdivision of it, hence I at once state that this is the mildest form of cancer of the skin, and, with few exceptions, attacks old persons; the disease occasion- all}^ begins as an infiltration of the papillary layer, with small nodules, ahvays superficial; usually there is at first a local collection of yellow- ish epidermis, a small scab, after whose removal the skin appears at first only slightly reddened, scarcely infiltrated; when detached, the crust forms again ; after repeated detachments, we find under it a small, rough, fine papillary, dry, ulcerated surface, which occasionally has, even at this period, hard, slightly-elevated edges; the small ulcer, on which new, dry crusts constantly form, extends through the cutis, but rarely into the subcutaneous tissue ; its tendency is rather to spread laterally, occasionally it even heals in the centre, forming a cicatrix and new healthy epidermis, while a moderate induration and ulceration slowly progress in the periphery. In some cases there is no ulcera- tion, only infiltration of the skin, with epidermis-scales and subse- quent cicatricial shi'inking. The most frequent seat of flat epithelial cancer is the fiice, es- pecially the cheeks, brow, nose, and eyelids; still other parts of the skin, which are subject to any form of epithelial carcinoma, may be