94 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. artificial!}’ induced in animals. The fever begins very soon, often even in an hour after the injection; after two hours there is always considerable elevation of temperature: for instance, in a dog whose temperature in the rectum was 103° F., two hours after an injection of pus it may be 105°, and four hours after the injection 107°. It is im- material whetlier the substance be injected directly into the blood or into the cellular tissue. The fever may remain at its height from one to twelve hours, or even longer. The defervescence may be either gradually or by crisis. If we make new injections, the fever increases again ; by repeated injections of putrefying material we may kill the largest animal in a few days. Whether an animal shall die from a single experiment, depends on the amount and poisonous qualities of the injected material in relation to the size of the animal. A medium- sized dog, after the injection of a scriqDle of filtered decomposing fluid, may be feverish for a few hours and be perfectly well after twelve hours. Hence the poison may be eliminated by the change of tissue, and the disturbances induced by its presence in the blood may again subside. I will now terminate these observations, and only hope I may have made this important subject, to which we shall frequently return, comprehensible to you. I feel convinced that traumatic fever, like any inflammatory fever, essentially depends on a poisoned state of the blood, and may be induced by various materials passing from the seat of inflammation into the blood. In the accidental traumatic diseases we shall again take up this question. Now a few words about the prognosis and treatment of stippurat- ing wounds. prognosis of simple incised wounds of the soft parts depends chiefly on the physiological importance of the wounded part, both as regards its importance in the body and as regards tlie disturbance of function in the part itself. You will readily understand that injuries of the medulla oblongata, of the heart, and of large arterial trunks lying deep in the cavities of the body, should be absolutely fatal. Injuries of the brain heal rarely; the same is true of injuries of the spinal medulla—they almost always induce extensive paralysis and prove fatal by various secondary diseases. Injuries of large nervous trunks result in paralysis of the part of the body lying below the scat of injury. Openings into the cavities of the body are always very serious wounds; should they be accompanied by injury of the luug, intestines, liver, spleen, kidney, or bladder, the danger increases ; many of these injuries are absolutely fatal. Opening of the large joints is also an injury which not only often inqiairs the function of