BURNS AND FROST-BITES. 274 is entirely aiTested, frequently cannot be determined for a time; hence we must not be too hasty about amputating. In Zurich, I had two cases where both feet were dark blue and without feeling, and on being punctured with a needle only a drop of black blood escaped ; nevertheless, the foot lived, and only a few toes were lost. In a third case, in a verj' debilitated patient, where both feet as high as the calf were dark blue and covered with vesicles, they became entirely gangrenous. If there be extensive gangrene of the skin, beyond a doubt, we should not delay amputating, for these patients are very subject to pymmia. A very sad case occurred in the Zurich hosj^ital. A powerful young man had both hands and both feet frozen, so that all became gangrenous; the patient could not make up his mind to the four amputations, nor could I bring myself to persuade him to the fearful operation. He died of pyaemia. The ends of the extremities, the point of the nose, and tips of the ears, are most liable to be frozen. Closely-fitting clothes, which impede the circulation, increase the predisposition. Cold wind, and cold ac- companied by moisture, induce frost-bite more readily than very great still, dry cold. There is also a total freezing or stiffening of the whole body, in which the patient loses consciousness, and falls into a state of very hmited vitality. The radial pulse can hardly be felt, the heart-beat is scarcely audible, the respiration almost imperceptible, and the whole body is icy cold. This state may pass at once into death; then all the fluids harden into ice. This general freezing is especially a]3t to occur when the individual, overcome by fatigue and cold, lies down ■while freezing; he soon falls asleep, and sometimes never wakes again. It has never been accurately determined how long a patient may remain in this stiff condition, with very slight appearance of life, and again recover; we find mention of the state having lasted six days. Whether this be true or not, we should continue our attempts at resuscitation as long as a heart-beat can be detected. Let us commence the treatment of frost-bite with this state of general stiffness. We must here avoid any sudden change to higher temperature, but increase the wannth gradually. Such a patient should be placed in a cool chamber, on a cold bed, and Irictions made for several hours. At the same time, artificial respiration should be occasionally tried, if the breathing becomes imperceptible. As slight stimulants that may do good, I would mention enemata of cold water, »nd holding ammonia to the nostrils. Very gradually, as the patient becomes conscious, we raise the surrounding temperature, keep him for a time in a slightly-warmed room, and at first give only tepid drinks. As the differ/mt parts of the bodjqone by one, regain vitality, there is