25 SYMPTOMS—HAEMORRHAGE, true, the latter point has not been proved from the blood that escaped, for in the cases where attention was directed to this point the blood flowed like that of a healtln^ person. I shall also call your attention to some peculiarities in hemorrhages from certain localities, especially from those in the pharynx, posterior nares, and rectum, although, strictly speaking, this comes in the domain of special surgery, W^ounds of the pharnyx or posterior nares, made through the open mouth by accident, are rare, but, as a result of con- stitutfonal disease, we may have very severe spontaneous haemorrhage from these parts, or these may result from operations, for we not un- frequently have to use knives and scissors here, or to tear out tumors with forceps. The blood does not always escape from the mouth and nose, but it may run down the pharynx into the oesophagus withord being perceived. The general effects of rapid loss of blood come on rapidly, which we shall soon describe more minutely, but we are unable to discover the source of the bleeding, which may be behind the soft palate. The patient soon vomits, and at once throws up large quantities of blood; when this ceases there is another pause, and the patient, perhaps also the surgeon, thinks the hsemorrhage has ceased, till more blood is vomited, and the patient grows still weaker. If the surgeon does not recognize these symptoms and apply proper remedies, the patient may bleed to death. I remember one case where several physicians gave various remedies for vomiting of blood and gastric hmmorrhage after a little operation in the throat, and the source of the bleeding was finally recognized by an experienced old surgeon, who arrested it by local applications, and thus saved the life of the patient. The same thing may happen in hmmorrhage from the rectum. From an internal wound the blood flow’s into the rectum, which is ca- pable of enormous distention; the patient has a sudden desire to stool, and evacuates large quantities of blood. This may be repeated sev- eral times, till the rectum, irritated by the expansion, either contracts and thus arrests the hfemorrhage, or till it is finally checked artificially. A rapid excessive loss of blood induces changes in the whole body, which are soon perceptible. The face, especially the lips, becomes pale, the latter bluish, the pulse is smaller, and at first less frequent. The bodily temperature sinks most perceptibly in the extremities; the pa- tient, especially when sitting up, is subject to fainting-spells, dizziness, nausea, or even vomiting, his eyes are dazzled, and he has noises in the ears, every thing appears to whirl around; he collects his strength to hold himself up, he becomes unconscious, and finally falls over. These symptoms of syncope we refer to rapid anaemia of the brain. In a horizontal posture this soon passes off. Persons often fall into this