454 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. the bone. But how the bone is dissolved remains an unsolved riddle. Living, like dead bone, may, to a certain extent, be dissolved by the interstitial bony granulation. Previously, when speaking of operating for pseudarthrosis by the insertion of ivory pegs, I told you, if you will remember (p. 229), that the ivory pegs became rough on their surface, carious ; there the process is just the same, and this observa* tion is exceedingly interesting and important as a proof that the bone itself does not necessarily have any thing to do with its solution in caries, but may play a perfectly passive part. To anticipate the charge that I admit only this variety of consumption of bone, where the above changes occur on the sixrface, I must add that I have already called attention to the fact that the ivory pegs introduced for pseudarthrosis do not always become rough on the surface, but might remain smooth and still lose substance, as may be shown by weighing them before and after the operation. The morphological appearances in the carious bone, which JR. Volkmann very aptly designates lacunar corrosions, and which Howship first made known, are now genei’ally recognized as correct, although different views were formerly held regarding them, which you may find in the cellular pathology of Virchow, and in Forster's atlas, if the subject interests you. One point, however, we must consider. It would be very suj> posable that the bone-substance, having its nutrition affected, would begin to break up and crumble into very fine particles, or powder; this 'would be especially apt to occur if the bone had previously lost its organic substance. It could even be shown that this is the primary step in ulceration of the bone, or caries, and those who regard destruc- tion of tissue as the primarjf step in ulcers of the soft parts, and in- flammatory new formation as the second, will also hold this view in regard to bone. As I have already stated, my observations speak very decidedly against the universality of this view of ulceration, and what I did not find proven as regards the soft parts, I cannot consider true as regards the bones. But there is no doubt that portions of bone may crumble off, and, when there is suppurative ostitis, these small particles of bone may be found in the pus. Ihis would be a necrosis of the lowest form; such a death of tlie particles of tissue also occurs in the soft j)arts, both in acute and chronic inflammation ; you will doubtless bear in mind that we have spoken of this subject. It cannot be considered as a rule in caries ; it is only seen occasional!} in caries with suppuration or caseous degeneration. Here e\en large portions of bone may become actually necrosed, and for this combi- nation of caries and necrosis we have the curious name of caries nccrotica. Thus far wc have used the term caries as exactly synonymous with