555 OPEKATIONS FOR ANCHYLOSES. of course we should not apply the plaster-bandage after the operation, or, at least, should not leave it on long, but we should apply instru- ments by which motion may be made some time after the extension; this motion should first be tried under anaesthesia, and subsequently repeated daily without the anaisthetic. I shall not deny that cases occur where a tolerable amount of motion may be obtained in this wav; but they are rare, and they are either cases where stiffness has remained after fractures through the joint, or after inflammations of very short duration; I could almost believe that, in some of these cases, mobility would have been restored simply by daDy use, hence I have no very brilliant anticipations about the results of straightening anchyloses generally. But the mere fact, that we may now almost entirely erase anchylosis from the list of indications for amputation, is a very great triumph over former surgery; but this does not bar the way for further improvements of the new method, or for the at- tainment of better results. [Wharton P. Hood (in “ Bonesetting,” London, 1871) says that partial anchylosis and pain on motion are often due to string-like ad- hesions. A painful point exists somewhere about the joint; you should press on this with the thumb of the left hand, while steadying the limb above the joint, then with the right hand make sudden flexion and rotation, again extend the limb and let the patient use it at once. Of course this is not to be done if any acute inflammation exists, or in scrofulous subjects.] Cases occur where the mechanical conditions in the joint are of such a nature that the ends of the bones cannot be brought into any different position. I have already given you the elbow-joint as an example; e. g., the case is one of arthritis deformans, the fossaj at the lower end of the humerus above the trochlea are filled with newly-formed bone; here it is impossible to move the ulna forward or backward; in arthritis deformans similar circumstances occur in other joints, hence the consequent anchyloses cannot be rendered movable, any more than they can after true arthritis, therefore both diseases are usually contraindications to extension of the anchylosis. Lastlv, as above stated, the adhesions of the ends of the bones may be bony, there may be anchylosis ossea; it will rarely be possible, indeed, except where there are simply a few osseous bands, to break such anchvloses; in most of these cases the anchylosis will stand firm. What can be done in such cases ? There are two ways of altering the position of such joints: by bending the bone above or below the anchvlosed joint, or by sawing out a piece from the joint or from the bone. In regard to the first, some surgeons would shrug their shoulders if it were proposed as a method; still, this bending or even fracture of the