444 ULCERS. 1. First among these are scrofuloKS vlcers ; these most frequently come in the neck, enclosed collections of pus develojiing in the cutis or subcutaneous tissue, and gradually perforating out through the skin. Of course, this causes small losses of skin, whose edges are usually red and very thin, and which lead to deejily-seated cavities that evacuate thin pus or tissue that has uiidei’gone caseous degen- eration. The borders of these cutaneous ulcers are excavated, as may readily be shown by examining with the probe. As a rule, these are t3qiical atonic ulcers. From this description you see that this form of undermined sinuous ulcers is only due to the mode of origin, and may occasionally present itself under the most varied constitutional con- ditions ; although experience teaches that it is especially frequent in scrofulous persons, and this is why such atonic ulcers with under- mined edges are referred to scrofula. This conclusion will generally prove correct, though it is not necessarily the case. 2. Lupous ulcers. By lupus we understand a disease which manifests itself by the development of small nodules in the superficial layej of the skin. The subsequent progress of these nodules may vary. They consist of collections of wandering cells and coincident ectasia of the vessels. Lupous nodules may (a) enlarge and run together, so as to form larger nodules and tuberculous thickenings of the skin {Lupus hypertrophicus) ; (b) on theii’ surface there is a free exfoliation of epidermis {Ltpus exfoliatus) / (c) the surface ulcerates {LupxhS exulcerans). All three forms may combine, and sojne others may be added to them. The ulcers resulting from the latter form may be accompanied by strongly proliferating granulations {Lupus exul- cerans funyosus), or dispose to a more rapid destruction of tissue {Lupus exedexis, vorax). The disease is most frequent on the face, especially on the nose, cheeks, and lips; it causes the most frightful disfigurement. The nose or the lips may be entirely destroyed by lupus. I saw one case where all the skin of the face, nose, lips, and eyelids, was destroyed; both eyes had been lost by suppuration, and the facial part of the skull, being exposed, presented a most horrible sight. Lieffenhach describes such a case in a Polish count, and com- pares his appearance to that of a death’s head. Lupous ulcers do not by any means always look alike; but their surroundings, and the general appearance of the portion of skin diseased, greatl}’^ facilitate the diagnosis. When lupus occurs in other parts of the bod>', as in the extremities or mucous membranes, as the throat or conjunctiva, the diagnosis is dilficult, and cannot always be made posit.ivel\'. It is not only pardonable, but sometimes unavoidable, to mistake the disease on the extremities for certain forms of leprosy, and in the throat for syphilitic ulcers. In most cases luj)us is due to ad^'ser sia. It is