HEALING OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. 159 In many cases, on the fresh borders of the wound we may see about how much will die, but by no means in all cases, and we can never decide from the first as to the bordering line of the dead tissue. Completely crushed skin usually has a dark-blue violet appearance and feels cold; in other cases we at first see no change in it, but in a few days it is white, without sensation, later it becomes gray, or, when quite dry, grayish or brownish black. These various colors depend chiefly on the amount of coagulated blood remaining in the vessels or infiltrated in the tissue itself by the partial rupture of the vessels. The healthy skin is bordered by a rose-red line which loses itself in a diffuse redness; this is due to collateral dilatation of the capillaries, and is partly also a symptom of fluxion, of which we have before spoken; it is the reaction redness about the wound, which we have already described; for the living wound-surface only begins where the blood still flows through the capillaries. In muscles, fascim, and tendons, we can decide far less frequently, and often not at all, from the appearance at first, how far they will be detached. The time required for the dead tissue to be separated and detached from the living varies greatly with the different tissues. This de- pends first on tlie vascularity of the tissues; the richer a tissue in capillaries, the softer it is, the more readily cells spread in it, and the richer it is by nature in cells capable of development, so much the more rapidly will the formation of granulations and the detachment of the necrosed parts come about. All these circumstances combine best in the subcutaneous cellular tissue and in the muscles, least so in tendons and fascice; the cutis stands in the middle in this respect. The circumstances are the most unfavorable for the bones ; conse- quently the separation of the dead from the living takes place most slowly. Of this more hereafter. Rich supply of nerves seems to have little effect in this process. But there are many other influences that hinder the detachment of the dead parts, or, what is the same thing, that retard the forma- tion of granulations and pus ; such as continued action of cold on the wound, as might be effected by apj^lications of bladders of ice. The cold keeps the vessels contracted. The cell-movements, the escape of cells from the vessels, go on very slowly under the influence of low temperature. Treatment by continued warmth, as by the application of cataplasms, has the opposite effect; by this means we increase the fluxion to the capillaries and cause them to dilate, as you may readily see from the redness you induce on the healthy skin by application of a hot cataplasm ; it is known that the high temperature also hastens the cell-activity.