LACERATED WOUNDS. 181 solution is most active; but as its effect is due to development of chlorine, it is very temporary, and dressings with this substance must be frequently renewed to deodorize or disinfect well. Gly- cerine is a good disinfectant, and acts excellently if poured freely on the dressing every two hours. If applied early, it withdraws so much water from the necrosed shreds of tissue that there is no smell; but if decomposition has once begun, its deodorizing effect is very slow. After using it freely for three or four days, the wound often becomes so red and sensitive that we must refrain from further ap- plications. Solutions of chloride of zinc are also recommended for washing out purulent cavities ; I have rarely found its superficial cauterizing effect very obstinate. Strong solutions of carbolic acid in oil or water (five per cent, and over), when applied to large sur- faces, not unfrequently cause dangerous symptoms of poisoning, and are not so effectual for deodorizing, mummifying necrosed tissues, and limiting putrefaction, as acetate of alumina and lead. I have no personal experience of the antiseptic properties of salicylic acid (recommended by Kolhe and Thiersch), or of sulphite of soda (rec- ommended by Polli and JSTinnich). If, however, secondary inflammations attack the wound, they should be treated as already advised; retained pus should be removed, foreign bodies extracted, etc., then the wound treated with ice, per- haps, till all is brought in order again, and the patient free from fever. In such cases shall we prescribe any thing for our patients besides cooling drinks and medicines, regulating their diet, etc. ? The febris remittens not unfrequently accoinpam-ing such suppurations renders the patient dull, peevish, and often sleepless. Two remedies are proper here—quinine and opium ; quinine as a tonic and febrifuge, opium as a narcotic, especially in the evening, to secure a niglit’s rest. With such patients I usually pursue the follovving method: As long as they are little if at all feverish, I give nothing; if they grow feverish toward evening, in the afternoon I give two doses of quinine (five grains each) in solution or powder, and in the evening before bedtime from the eighth to half a grain of muriate of morphia, or a grain of opium. As soon as the fever ceases, I stop these medi- cines ; you roust especiallv avoid liberality with opium, when it is not required, for it is constipating. Now a few words about lacerated wounds. In general, these are less dangerous than contused wounds, because they are more exposed, and we have no need to fear that the injury is deeper than we can see ; we perceive how the skin, muscles, nerves, and vessels are torn ;