600 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. cutaneous osteotomy, according to B. von Langenheclc (p. 230), is in- dicated. The results of this operation, which I have had to make four times, have so far been very satisfactory ; in one of these cases the skin-Avound healed by first intention, and the subsec|uent treatment AAms that of simple fracture. The operation will always remain a rare one, because these excessive rachitic distortions are themselves rare. Now, a few words about osteomalacia, bone-softening, kct’ Ltcx/iV. The disease only occurs in adults, and is also characterized by distoi’- tion of the bones ; but here there is an actual reabsorption of exist- ing bone. In the holloAv bones the medulla gradually assumes the preponderance, while the cortical substance becomes thinner and thinner, and conset][uently the bones weaker and more flexible; and finally there may be a complete absorption of the bone, so that little is left besides thd periosteum, Avhich participates rarely, and then but little, in the disease, scanty osteophytes growing from it. The spongy bones also grow weaker, the trabecula3 thinner, and become so soft that they shrink. The medulla appears reddish and gelati- nous, but does not, as in fungous caries, consist solely of granulations; it contains much fat. The microscopic appearances in this process have already been described in ostitis malacissans. Lactic acid lias been found in the medulla of the hollow bones, so that it is very probable that the bones are dissolved by it. The lime going into the blood is often excreted in the urine as oxalate of lime. So ymu see that this is an ostitis malacissans with nothing peculiar in its anato- my, but which owes its distinction to its affecting many bones simul- taneously, often occurring under peculiar conditions, and never lead- ing to suppuration or caseous degeneration. Concerning the etiology of the disease we know but little ; osteo- malacia is particularly frequent in some parts of Europe, and among women ; it attacks the latter more particularly while in the puerperal condition ; occasionally it is preceded by drawing pains and soreness on moving, which continue through the disease. The distortions occur chieflv, primarily, even solely, in the pelvns, which assumes a peculiar, laterallv-compressed form, of which vou will hear more in obstetrics. This is followed by curvature of the spine and lower ex- tremities, with muscular contractions. The disease may ])ause, and exacerbate with a new pregnancy, etc. Slight grades and localized forms of osteomalacia, as that of the pelvis, not unfrequentlj recovei spontaneously ; if the disease lie of a high grade, general maiasmus occurs, and the patient dies. The treatment is the same as in rachitis, but the hopes of success are less.