14G CONTUSIONS OF THE SOFT PARTS WITHOUT WOUNQS. have to deal with a tumor of firm consistence, or with one containing fluid. You will be shown in the clinic how it is best to make this examination in different cases. Some of these effusions of blood have receiv'ed particular names according to the localities where they occur. Thus those coming on the heads of the newly-born, between the various coverings of the skull and in it, are called cepliallmmatoma (from Ke(j)aX-q, head, and aiiiaroo), to soil with blood), cephalic tumors of the newly-born. The extravasations in the labia majora, from contusions or the spontaneous rupture of distended veins, have received the neat name of episiohmna- toma or episiorrhagia (from ineioLov, the external genitals). Effu- sions of blood in the pleura and pericardium have also special desig- nations : hcematothoi'ax, hcBmatopericardium^ etc. On the whole, we attach little importance to these euphonic Latin and Greek names; but you should know them, so as to understand them when reading medical books, and not seek for any thing mysterious behind them ; also that you may use them so as to express yourself quicker, and be readily understood. The subsequent course and symptoms are ver}"- characteristic of these subcutaneous effusions of blood. Looking first at the diffuse effusions of blood, immediately after the injury, we are rarely able to decide how extensive the bleeding has been or still is. If you ex- amine the contused part the second or third day after the injur}^ you notice that the discoloration is more extensive than on the first day ; this appears to increase subsequently ; that is, it becomes more per- ceptible. The extent is sometimes astonishing. We once had in the clinic a man with fractured scapula; at first there Avas only slight dis- coloration of the skin, although there was a large fluctuating tumoi-. On the eighth day, the whole back from the neck to the gluteal mus- cles was of a dark steel-blue, and presented a peculiar, almost comical aj^pearance, the skin looking as if painted. Such Avidely-spreading extravasations are particularly apt to occur in cases of fractured bones, esjDecially of the arm or leg. But fortunately this partly dark-blue, ]3artly bluish-red color, along with Avhich the skin is not sensitive and scarcely swollen, does not remain so, but further changes take place ; first there is further change of color, the blue and red pass into mixed broAvn, then to green, and finally to a bright lemon yelloAV. This pecu- liar play of colors has given rise to the expression of “ beating one black and blue,” ot “ giving one a black eye.” The last color, the yelloAv, usually remains a long time, often for months ; it finally dis- ap];>oars, and no visible trace of the extraA’asation remains. If Ave ask ourselves Avhence come these various colorings of the skin, and if we have the opportunity of examining blood extravasa-