VARICES AND ANEURISMS. 580 But shall we do nothing for varices? Yes, we should try to keep them within certain bounds, and thus prevent or reduce to a minimum their bad effects. For this purpose there is only one remedy, con- tinued compression^ which, however, must only be used in such a de- gree as is bearable to the patient. We use two different mechanical modes of compression in these cases, the laced stocking and regular bandaging. The laced stocking consists either of a carefully-made, close-fitting leather stocking, split at one side, and laced up, like cor- sets, till it is tight enough, or else of a tissue of rubber thread, spuTi over with silk or cotton, of the same stuff that most suspenders are made of. These laced stockings, which must be very carefully made, and worn continually, are unfortunately quite expensive, and, as they cannot be washed, must often be replaced, so that they are onlj- prac- tically useful for persons of means. In most cases a carefully-apjffied roller-bandage suffices. For this purpose, you may best take a cotton bandage two or three fingers’ breadths wide, soaked in good book- binder’s paste, and, excepting the heel, bandage the whole foot and leg; with care, such a bandage may be worn five or six weeks, and even if the skin be considerably infiltrated, it may jarevent the forma- tion of ulcers by obstructing the further development of varices. It is some time since we spoke of traumatic aneurism, but you will remember that we mentioned it under punctured wounds (page 135), and that I then told you an aneurism was a cavity, a sac, which directly or indirectly communicated with an artery; you already know that such sacs may develop from injuries of the artery by punctme, subcutaneous rupture, or contusion. But now we do not mean to speak of these traumatic, so-called false aneurisms, but of aneurysma venim, which develops gradually from disease of the wall of the ar- tery. To explain to you clearly how this occurs, it will be best to start from the anatomical conditions. At present, you know but little of the diseases of arteries ; the only ones that have been mentioned so far are thrombosis after injury, the development of collateral circu- lation, and atheroma, which we hastily spoke of when treating of senile gangrene. And these comprise almost the whole list, only that so far we have taken merely a one-sided view of atheromatous dis- ease. Of the different parts of arteries the tunica muscularis and intima are most frequently diseased, and they seem to be allcctcd primarily. The tunica media is composed of muscle-cells ana some connective tissue; the tunica intima consists of non-vascular, elastic lamelhe, fenestrated membranes, tand very thin endothelium. It may be readily shown that, after injury of an artery, its walls swell, and