492 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. bones, enormous thickening of the bone occurs in exceptional caseS; at the same time the inner wall of the bone-cavity may feel very firm and hard, like a sequestrum; these cases may give rise to error: on opening the cavity, no sequestrum is found, as had been expected; it is possible that in these rare cases the sequestrum may have been very small and may have been absorbed; of this more hereafter. But these exceptional cases do not disprove the rule; hence you majq to a great extent, confide in the above comparative diagnosis. Now, a few words about the fate of the sequestrum. Do you *nean to say the dead bone cannot be reabsorbed ? Have I not told you frequently that dead bone may be dissolved and consumed by the granulations ? Hence we should expect that the elimination of the sequestrum would not require any aid. From my observations, I have no doubt that small sequestra may be completely consumed by prolif- erating granulations ; granulations that are being destroyed or under- going cheesy degeneration have no power of dissolving bone; we have already stated, when speaking of caries, that partial necrosis oc- curs so readily in atonic suppurative or caseous ostitis, just because the inflammatory neoplasia, which so quickly breaks down again, does not dissolve the bone, but leaves it to be macerated in the body. But the reabsorption of the sequestrum has its limits: first, of course, it ceases wheie the bone is uncovered, for here the granulations have no effect; it also ceases as soon as they secrete pus on their surface; lienee a sequestrum, resulting from acute periostitis, is not usually absorbed at the point where the periosteum suppurates and where pus forms during the whole process, because it does not come in contact with the granulations; but at all points where the sequestrum must be loosened, reabsorjDtion commences from the interstitial granulation- masses forming on the bone ; lastly, after the sequestrum is detached, if these granulations also produce pus, reabsorption ceases here also, and the sequestrum bathed in pus ceases to decrease; the granula- tions of the pus-cavity, growing from all sides toward the sequestrum, in the course of time undergo chemical change; they become very gelatinous, mucous, and often undergo fatty degeneration. But the sequestrum must finally come out. Can it do so un- aided ? This does occur; whence the power that pushes it out ? Let us suppose a central necrosis; a sequestrum becomes detached from all sides; then, for the reasons above mentioned, it is considerably smaller than the cavity in which it lies; the piece of bone is now quite loose; granulations grow toward it from all sides except from the one where the pus-cavity opens externally; here there is no re- sistance ; if the opening be large enough, the constantly-increasing granulations push out the sequestrum. But for this to occur there