036 TUMORS. but when such tumors are found in them they have usually developed in 3>-outh. Osteomata are just as often multiple as solitary; their growth is generally very slow, and is usually arrested with advancing age. The gTowth of epiphyseal exostoses ceases after the skeleton has completed its growth, and its spongy substance becomes more compact. Ossification of the tendons and muscles rarely goes so far as to entirely prevent motion. In some cases development of bone has been observed in the lung. The inconveniences caused by osteo- mata are not usually great; their development is not accompanied by pain, nor are they sensitive to the touch; but osteomata in the vicin- ity of joints often impair their function. When these tumors occur on the bones of the face, they cause unpleasant deformities ; exostoses on the big-toe prevent wearing the shoe; ossification of the tendons and muscles impairs or entirely prevents motion; but unfortunately, from their size and number, operative surgery can do little for the lat- ter, and the less so, as the tendency to morbid development of bone still continues. The operation for exostosis consists in sawing or chiselling the tumor from the bone affected. But, as the latter is occasionally in the vicinity of a joint, the articulation might thus be opened; it is neither advisable nor necessary to undertake such opera- tions unless the impairment of function be so great as to balance an operation dangerous to the joint and to life. We should be the less inclined to undertake such operations without some special indication, as in the course of time these tumors cease to grow. On epiphyseal exostoses we occasionally find mucous bursae containing adherent, or loose ossif^dng chondromata; these mucous bursae usually communi- cate with the joint in whose vicinity the exostosis is situated. Ac- cording to the investigations of Rindfleiseh, the mucous bursae are always abnormal elongations of the pockets of the articular synovial membrane. I once allowed myself to be induced, by the entreaties of a patient, to remove such an exostosis on the lower end of the femur with a large mucous bursa; the patient died of septic-mmia. In another case the mucous bursa over an exostosis on the lower end of the humerus opened spontaneously after moderate inflammation j there was suppuration of the elbow-joint, with anchylosis; the patient would not permit resection of the joint.