AMPUTATIONS, EX ARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. 724 lire, if they cannot be cured, Avould certainly prove fatal if amputa- tion were not performed. In tumors of the extremities which are firmly adherent to femur, humerus, or tibia, and grow in between the soft parts, we must am- putate, Tumors merely attached to the ulna, radius, or fibula, and not extending into the soft parts, may be successfully removed by partial resection, or even by removal of the bone. Lastly, amputation may be desirable on account of distortion or malformation of the foot preventing a patient from walking. Now, regarding the method, we may operate through the joint, or saw through the bones. Both ways have their advantages and objections. Amputation through the joint appears to be the most natural and simple, and least injurious. The soft parts may even unite to the cartilage by first intention, or the cartilage may suppu- rate and be thrown off, in which case the healing is by granulations growing from the bone. The medullary cavity of the bone is not opened, so we escape the possibility of primary infection of the me- dulla at the time of or shortly after the operation. The objections to this operation are, that j3ortions of the serous synovial sac remain and have little tendency to primary adhesions, and pus readily collects in them after the wound has united. More- over, the soft parts required to cover the large articular surfaces are very extensive, so that the wounded surface must be very large. In case of the knee or elbow joint, the length of the flap required is such that we might perhaps make a high amputation of the leg or forearm. The stumps left after exarticulation are unfavorable for the application of artificial limbs; for instance, after exarticulation at the knee, the joint of the artificial leg would have to be lower than the knee on the sound side. In amputations we have the advantage of being able to choose where we will remove the limb, although, from certain empirical reasons, and for greater convenience in applying artificial limbs, certain places are preferred. We generally require less flap to cover the stump from an amputation than from an exarticulation. Sawing tiie bone is not a very formidable complication of this operation, although in many cases more or less extensive necrosis of the sawed surface results. If the medulla in its cavity or in the spongy sub- stance be infected by a dirty sponge during the operation, or if the soft parts become so adherent that pus forming in the medulla can- not escape, severe acute osteomyelitis results, which may induce seplicmmia and death. In more favorable cases the osteoniN-elitis is limited, and we have necrosis of the bone in the .stump ; after six or o'ght weeks the necrosed portion may be removed as a. sequestrum ;