524 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. LECTURE XXXIX. J?.—Chronic Serous Synovitis.—Hydrops Articulorura Clironicus: Anatomy, Symp- toms, Treatment.—Typical Recurrent Dropsy of the Knee-Joint.—.\ppendi.v: Clironic Dropsies of the Sheaths of the Tendons, Synovial Hernias of the Joints ■ and Subcutaneous Mucous Bursse. J?.—CHRONIC SEROUS SYNOVITIS.—HYDROPS ARTICULORUM CHRONI- CDS.—HYDRARTIIRUS. The clironic diseases of the joints that we have now to describe are much more rare than fungous synovitis and its results, which we have already described; taken altogether, they are scarcely so fre- quent as the former, and, as a body, they form a decided contrast to suppurating inflammations of the joints, for they never spontaneously suppurate, they only do so when acted on by repeated irritations, in- juries, etc.®’ We shall commence with the most simjile of these forms, with chronic sei’ous synovitis, or hydrops articulorura clironicus, or hydrarthrus. The disease consists in a morbid, slowly-increasing collection of rather thin synovia; the synovial membrane changes very little, it gradually becomes somewhat thicker and firmer, the connective tissue increases, but without any marked increase of vas- cularity ; the tufts elongate, and, although the vessels form into loops at their apices, the substance retains the firmness of connective tissue, while from plastic and serous infiltration it grows soft and resembles granulations in fungous synovitis. In serous synovitis this does not occur; the entire pathological changes of tissue are very slight, even when the disease has lasted a long while. Some surgeons wish to consider these dropsies of the joints, as well as similar diseases of the mucous bursse, as not belonging to the chronic inflammations, but as constituting peculiar diseases. Tliis does not seem to me justifiable. No one will dispute that chronic catarrhs of the mucous membranes, with a tendency to hypersecretion, are to be classed among the chronic inflammations; chronic dropsy of the synovial membrane is perfectly analogous to chronic catarrh of the mucous membranes. Chronic dropsy of the joints is often the remains of an acute artic- ular dropsy, caused by contusions, catching cold, etc., as has already been described ; but in many cases, also, the disease is chronic from the start, and remains so. Hydrarthrus is most common in young men, and occurs most frequently in the knee-joint; it often comes on both sides; it is very rare in the shoulder, hip, or elbow; I have never seen a pure case of it in the other joints. When the disease is well advanced it is readily recognized, and even the laity know it as “ drojjsy of the joint.” The joint is much swollen, fluctuates all