APPENDIX TO CHAPTERS V. AND VI. LECTURE XVII. 1. Ketarded Formation of Callus and Development of Pseudarthrosis.—Causes often unknown.—Local Causes. — Constitutional Causes. — Anatomical Conditions.— Treatment: internal, operative; Criticism of Methods. 2. Obliquely-united Fractures; Eebreaking, Bloody Operations.—Abnormal Development of Callus. 1.—KETAEDED DEVELOPMENT OF CALLUS AND FOEMATION OF A SO- CALLED FALSE JOINT—A SO-CALLED PSEUDAETHEOSIS. Under some circumstances, winch we do not always sufficiently understand, a fracture is not consolidated after the lapse of the usual time; indeed, it may not consolidate at all, but the seat of fracture may remain painless and movable, which of course impairs the func- tion of the limb, even to the point of entire uselessness. A short time since, a strong farmer-boy, with simple subcutaneous fracture of the leg without dislocation, entered the hospital; as usual, a plaster- bandage was applied and renewed in fourteen daj^s. Six weeks after the fracture the dressing was removed altogether, in the expectation that union had taken place; but the point of fracture was still per- fectly movable, nor could any callus be felt. I here tried the sim- ])lest remedy in such cases, I narcotized the patient, and then rubbed the fragments strongly together till crepitation could be distinctly perceived; then I applied another plaster-dressing, and on removing this in four weeks found the fracture tolerably firm. I placed the pa- tient in a fracture-box, and, without placing any bandage on the leg, had its anterior surface painted daily with strong tincture of iodine. After this had been continued a fortnight, the fracture was perfectly firm ; the patient now stood with the aid of crutches, and in a short time was dismissed cured. I know of two other cases from the prac- tice of colleagues, where simple fractures in very healthy young per- sons did not consolidate, but formed pseudarthroses. Such occur- rences are to be regarded as very rare; usually there is some jieculiar