APPEXDIX. 750 •26.—P. 515. As yet I have no experience of the value of massage in the com- mencement of tumor albus ; it should be used with great care. I cannot help thinking that massage used too strongly in these cases might induce suppuration where there was any tendency to it; so I would only recommend this treatment in torpid cases. 27.—P. 515. When the means of the patient admit, and there is a good dresser at hand, these bandages may be replaced by light splints, Avhich do not require the joint to be kept quiet, but free it from the weight of the body as much as possible. In this direction mechanical surgery has made great advances; by its aid, even in diseases of the lower extremities, many patients may be enabled to move about. 28.—P. 516. There is no doubt that in most cases of commencing and pro- gressing diseases of the joints traction is more efficacious than plas- ter bandages; hence, in my clinic you will see it used more fre- quently ; but in private practice you will not persuade all patients to go to bed, and moreover the method requires such careful watch- ing from the surgeon as to interfere with its employment. Taylor, an ingenious American surgeon, has constructed splints for the lower extremity by which traction may be so apjalied as to free the joint from pressure and enable the patient to go about. These sislints often act excellently, but they are difficult to make, and their use requires certain experience on the part of the surgeon. All of these mechanical aids—plaster dressings, supports, traction, Taylor^s splint, etc.—require continued supervision to prevent injury from pressure and friction and from displacement of the apparatus. In the case of children great patience and perseverance are needed in judging whether the extension is enough or too great, to accustom them to the inconvenience of the apparatus, to quiet the anxiety of the par- ents when the child cries, and by friendly talk or sober, earnest ef- forts to make the children obedient and prevent their loosening the apparatus. This treatment can rarely be thoroughly carried out in private practice; hence, treatment in hospitals or orthopedic institu- tions cannot be too strongly urged, at least until the chief dangers from deformity are passed.