395 POISONED WOUNDS. already had some experience on this point, in the dissecting-rooms. This putrid poison dev^elops in the corpses of men and animals; if, in handling these, some of the juice from the dead tissue enters small, insignificant, and scarcely noticeable injuries of the skin, very dis- agreeable symptoms may develop. The resulting conditions are vari- ous, sometimes very malignant. Cases occur which were formerly seen particularly often in England, where at first there is little pain in the wound, but there are great depression, headache, fever, and nausea; then come delirium and sopor, and in some cases death takes place in forty hours. It is asserted that these worst cases of septicaemia were most frequent, from autopsies made soon after death, on bodies still warm, and it was doubtful if in these cases the surgeon had not inoc- ulated himself with morbid matter developed in the body while still living, for the state usually termed putrefaction could not have begun. As a contrast to this malignant acute form, we may regard those cases where the poison has a purely local action. In the course of twenty- four hours there are moderate pain and slight induration in the injured finger; then a dry scab forms on the wound; under it there is always some pus. The scab forms as often as it is removed, the part remains painful and hard; in the course of time the epidermis thickens over it, and it forms a painful, wart-like nodule, moist on the surface. One in- clined to this purely local development is usually less disposed to general infection. Between these two forms stands a third, where an inflammation of the lymjDhatic vessels and axillary glands accompanies the local inflammation; under early treatment this may end in resolu- tion, but it often leads to abscesses in the arm. For the first treatment of the part poisoned by cadaveric matter, I advise you to let cold water run on the wound for a long time, and not to check the bleeding, if there be any. In many cases the injurious matter will be at once washed out, and there will be no further infec- tion. Should the parts around the wound redden, you may cauterize with nitrate of silver or fuming nitric acid; this is very painful, but it acts well; not unfrequently pus forms again under the resulting slough; in this case you remove the slough, and cauterize again, and repeat this till no pus forms under the slough. Cauterization immediately after contact with the poison, from a considerable experience on myself and on my students in the couire on operations, I consider unadvisable. Small, lacerated wounds that do not bleed, and excoriations, are always more dangerous for infec- tion than deeper incised wounds; the anatomical reason for this is that the lymphatic net-work lies chiefly in the most superficial layer of the cutis. Moreover, the susccptilnlity to the poison varies with the individual; repeated infections appear rather to increase than to