CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 422 (desquamative pneumonia, Buhl). Li all of these cases the diseased part may be, but unfortunately rarely is, encapsulated by firm con- nective tissue, after undergoing metamorphosis; and aftei- evacuation or calcification of the contents, the capsule may shrink to a firm cic- atrix. But in serous membranes, and especially in the peritoneum, the inflainmation caused by presence of tubercles leads at once to development of connective tissue, which not only encapsulates the nodules, but causes such an intimate adhesion of the intestines to each other and to the walls of the abdomen, that they can scarcely be separated on autopsy. As regards the occurrence of tubercles in different organs, none are exempt, though some are more predisjiosed than others. Tuber- cles are most frequently found in the lungs, especially at their apices; there are usually many at one time; they unite, the walls of the bronchi are implicated in the process, thej' are destroyed, and the caseous, partially-softened contents of the tubercles are coughed up; sometimes blood-vessels are ruptured, giving rise to spitting of blood or pulmonary hasmorrhage. A space thus left by softened tubercle is called a cavity. It is not our object to enter more into detail; you will hereafter learn enough of this unhappy disease in the clinic. Next to the lungs, the most frequent location of the disease is in the laryngeal mucous membrane, then in the intestinal mucous membrane, even in the rectum, where the tuberculous ulcers and ab- scesses also acquire a surgical interest. Tubercles also occur in the bones, especially in the spongy ones, such as the calcaneus, bodies of the vertebras, and upi^er epiphyses of the tibia. Although the lymphatic glands are often diseased in tuberculosis, miliary tubercle proper is hardly ever seen in them; still SehiZjypcl found them there also. The views as to the etiology of tuberculosis have changed wonder- fully of late years. Formerly it was not doubted tliat it was partly an idiopathic disease, partly due to hereditary predisposition. Hence we spoke of a tuberculous as we did of a scrofulous diathesis, and the two were considered as related, although not identical. Laennec started the view that the small nodular neoplasim (gray miliary tuber- cles) were the primary development, tind b\' confluence and growth led to the destruction of the affected tissues. The division of tubercles into miliary gray points and into cheesy nodules, the very ]ieculiar acute miliary tuberculosis, the connection of tuberculosis with other and especially with chronic suppurative inflammations and those tending to caseous degeneration, were gradually developed and in many places remain obscure, although the idea of tubercle has been rendered more limited and pivcise by )^u'choic, so that at present