V28 AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. The circular cut is the normal method for all amputations; it is applicable to any part of a limb, although for exarticulations flaps or oval sections are more practical, 2. Flap Operations.—From the soft parts we make one or two flaps with which to cover the sawed bone. If we make one flap, with a base half the circumference of the limb at the point of am- putation, on the other side we usually make a circular cut in one or two planes. In flap-amputations, also, it is desirable before sawing the bone to turn back the periosteum about one centimetre, and to saw the bone about two centimetres above the base of the flap, so that as the muscles retract the end of the bone shall not press too much against the inner side of the flap. I prefer making the flap so that while the patient lies in bed it shall hang over the wound without being held by sutures. The lower part of the flap should be of skin, the upper of skin and muscles. The best way of doing this is first to form the flap by an incision through the skin, then retract the skin and cut down through the muscles to the bone, then by two incisions make a cir- cular cut on the posterior part of the leg. The length of the flap should be about one-third the circumference of the limb at the point of amputation, and its breadth about one-half the circumference, or rather more. The single flap has the advantage that where the cause for am- putation, the injury or ulcer, or the line of demarkation in gangrene, is irregular in outline, we may amputate lower than when we per- form a circular operation, so that the stump may be longer and the prognosis better. I do not think the operation with two flaps has any advantage over the circular method. We may make two lateral flaps, or an anterior and posterior one, provided the amonnt and form of tlie soft parts is analogous to the circular amputation. Occasionally in- filtration of the skin prevents its being retracted well or turned back ; then we may incise it in the direction of the long axis. This would make of the circular an operation with skin-flaps, having the funnel shape within. Flaps for covering the stump with skin alone are not good, for long flaps of this kind readily become gangrenous at the edge, and, there being no muscular layer between the skin and the sawed end of the bone, the latter readily causes ulceration and perforation of the flap. It is true, this is no great misfortune, as tlie exposed por- tion of bone either necroses and separates, or soon granulates and cicatrizes ; but in either case the cicatrix becomes adherent to the bone, and the subsequent use of the stump may give rise to tedious ulceration.