545 ANCHYLOSIS. plasters, and the limb extended on a splint; a plaster-splint would be very suitable here ; one might be made with a large opening and applied even before the operation. According to the symptoins of inflammation that arise, the treatment for traumatic inflammations of the joint is to be instituted. In former times these operations were very unfortunate ; they were not unfrequently followed by severe inflammations of the joint, and occasionally the surgeon had to con- gratulate himself if he saved the patient’s life by amputating at the thigh. The modes of operation were often changed ; finally that above described, which is the simplest, carried the day. Fock per- formed this operation five times, always with success. The symptoms of inflammation were insignificant, and the patients could usually return to their occupations in a few weeks. As in the extraction of cataract or vesical calculus, much depends on the operation being well performed and without much bleeding or other hinderance. If a loose body causes no inconvenience, we may apply a knee-cap to limit the dropsy and give the joint a certain amount of firmness, so that there shall not be too much motion ; this often gives the patient great rest. APPENDIX II. NEUEOSES OF THE JOINTS. By neuroses and neuralgias we mean diseases characterized by typical or irregular pains whose causes we cannot find in any change of tissue. We assume that there is a functional disturbance in the nerves without morphological changes. There is no doubt that there are purely functional disturbances, which we call weakness and irritation, in the tissues, and especially in -the nerves, where for our senses, even with all modern aids, no morphological or chemi- cal changes are discoverable, either during life or after death. We cannot say if such changes do nevertheless exist ; what we cannot perceive with our senses does not exist for us. So that state of the joint where there is pain for which we can find no physical cause is called a “neurosis of the joint.” The pains are never typical, i. e., occurring at certain hours of the day in paroxysms, as in neuralgia of the trigeminus, for example, Broclie first classed neuroses of the joints as special diseases, EsmarcJi, Stromeyer, and Wernher have of late paid special attention to these affections ; according to them the group should also include those cases, with slight but still per- ceptible anatomical changes, where pain and functional disturbance are the chief symptoms, and their severity is out of proportion to the apparent causes of disease. This would place neuroses of the joints