12G SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TUE SOFT PARTS. tion, no longer move, and cannot be transformed into tissue. Hith- erto there have been no investigations as to whether wandering cells pass through the walls of arteries as readily as through those of veins, as JBuhnoff'‘s investigations only refer to venous thrombi. Some of my investigations in this direction showed me that minute cinnabar granules passed through the carotid of a dog into the thrombus, but I could not satisfy myself that they were replaced by wandering cells. So at present it is uncertain whence the numerous wandering cells in an organizing arterial thrombus originate, and how they enter there. Tschausoff^ in a very carefully-studied work that has lately appeared, calls attention to the fact that a great jaortion of large thrombi are destroyed by disintegration. This is very true, but he goes too far when he entirely denies the provisional organization of the thrombus, and supposes that the disintegration of the clot is immediately fol- lowed by the adhesion of the walls of the vessel, to which I have called attention as the definite termination of the whole process." As I have already stated, peculiarly favorable conditions are re*- quisite for the blood-clot to become organized. It is an absolute law in the human organism, that non-vascular tissues, which are nourished by means of cells alone, have no great extent; the articular cartilages, the cornea, the tunica intima of these vessels, the tissues, are all in thin layers; in other words, the cells of the human body cannot, like those of plants, carry nutrient fluid to any given distance, but are limited in their conductive power; at certain distances new blood-vessels must appear, to supply and carry off the nutrient fluid. The blood-clot, consisting of cells with coagulated fibrine, is at first a non-vascula’ cellular tissue, which can only maintain its existence in thin layers. This appears from observations, which we shall hereafter often have occasion to mention ; namely, that large blood-clots are not organized at all, or only in their peripheral layers, while they disintegrate in the centre. From this it appears that, in healing by the first intention, a small amount of blood lying between the edges of the wound does no harm, wliile a larger amount interferes with healing, or prevents it altogether. You will soon be able to verify this observation in the clinic. The formation and organization of the thrombus have engaged the attention of surgeons and anatomists since the time of John Hunter and even yet they are not fully understood. We must con- sider them here on account of their general liistogenetic interest, al- though of late it is doubtful whether thrombi are practically as im- portant for the results of ligation as was formerly supposed. Even Porta called attention to the fact that the quick adhesion and union of the tissue around the ligated artery was as important as organiza- tion of the thrombus. Surgeons have kept this point well in view