695 CARCINOMATA. causes of tumors of these parts. In regard to the lips in old persons, Thiersch attaches great importance to the fact that there, as in the cutis elsewhere, considerable changes take place with advancing age: there is decided atrophy of the connective and muscular tissues, so that the epidermis-formations, hair-follicles, sebaceous and perspira- tory glands, as well as those of the lip, attain the preponderance, and receive most of the nourishment; hence all irritations affecting the lips (bad shaving, smoking tobacco, wind, bad weather, etc.) chiefly attack the glandular parts of the lip, and induce hyperplasia. In England, eiDithelial cancer often attacks the scrotum of chimney- sweeps (chimney-sweeper’s cancer), from the irritation of the soot, it is supposed. These things may certainly have some effect, but it re- mains unexplained why they should be followed by cancers or infec- tious tumors, and not by chronic inflammations, catarrhs, etc. I shall not here follow this discussion further, but merely refer you to -what was said about the etiology in the introduction to the section on tumors. 2. Mammary glands. I place cancer of the mamma here, as this gland is also a derivative of the epidermis, a cutaneous fat-gland on a large scale. The mammary cancers, however, differ greatly from those already described, and, although true epidermis-cancers occur in the breast, starting particularly from the areola, they are verj- rare. Mammary cancer, which is unfortunately very frequent, seems to me almost always to begin with a coincident enlargement of the small, round, epithelial cells in the acini, and Avith small-ceUed infiltration of the connective tissue around them. With our present methods of examination it is impossible to tell whether the first changes occur in the gland-cells, or in the connective tissue; for the grouping of small, round cells about the acini soon becomes so excessive, that it constantly becomes more difficult to make out the further fate of the glandular acini. From my tolerably numerous observations on this subject, made by aid of the most improved methods, I think I may de- scribe the following as the subsequent course: The collection of cells in the acini leads first to their enlargement, which is occasionally accompanied by a trace of secretion (as is shown by the escape of serum from the nipple). As the collection of cells continues, there is more enlargement of the acini, and in such different ways, that we may distinguish an acinous (often large-celled) and a tubular (chiefly small-celled) form of mammary cancer. The former leads to the development of large, lobulated, glandular nodules; hence I call this the '‘acinous form,” since in it the rough outlines of the acini are preserved. The folloAving picture is a slightly-magnified one of the borders of such a tumor: