CARCINOMATA. 715 occasionally also it is a question of saving- from entire destruction cer* tain parts of the face, as the lips, eyelids, or nose, which may subse- quently be replaced by a plastic operation. It would be very unjust to consider such operations useless, because they cannot cure the dis- ease, for they render the patient’s life easier and more agreable—if only for a time, still, possibly, for the greater part of the time that he yet has to live. We might be very glad, if, by an operation or other treatment, we could temporarily restore to the pleasures of life a patient with advanced tuberculosis of the lungs, as is the case in oper- ating for some cancerous tumors. In short, there are many cases where we do good by the operation; very often I should consider it wrong to refuse to operate.—We see other cases, however, where it is more difficult to decide. In slowly-progressing cancers of the breast, as in connective-tissue cancers, I consider an operation, which is free from danger, as admissible, but not necessary. If an eyelid be de- stroyed, or the nose j^artly or entii-ely lost, an operation is advisable, in the first case to protect the eyeball, in the second to remove the deformity, and the rather so, because in these slowly-progressing flat cancers of the face frequently there is no local recurrence; in such cases only one thing would prevent my operating, viz., great debility or advanced age of the patient; at least then extensive plastic opera- tions are no longer advisable; even the unavoidable loss of blood, and keeping the patient in bed after the operation, may suffice to extin- guish the feeble vital spai-k. Then comes the question about the ad- missibility of the operation, where the tumor is in a dangerous loca- tion, when an operation is necessary that may end fatally, or at least is just as likely to end fatally as to result in cure. Here we have to drop general reflections, and consider the individual cases ; the danger seen in an operation varies greatly with the experience of the surgeon, and the individuality of the patient; one principle we should adhere to: only to operate when after careful examination we can hope to remove all of the diseased part; a half-operation, leaving behind por- tions of the tumor, should never be done. We should be careful to operate only in healthy tissue, if possible a centimetre or more from the perceptible infiltration, for in this way alone can we be certain of removing all of the diseased part. Occasionally in desperate cases we may prolong life by a bold operation, even if the cancerous tumor be already very large, but generally in such oi^erations we shall see more patients die than will recover. We have now to criticise the caustics chiefly used in cancers. In the course of time opinions about caustics have diflered greatly; at times they were greatly preferred to the knife, again tliey were en- tirely tlirown aside. The views of most surgeons of the present dav,