544 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS, esis they form a contrast to the fungous and fungous-sappurative articular inflammations. The symptoms which may be considered as characteristic of the existence of free bodies in the joint are as follows : The patient has long had moderate dropsy of the knee-joint, and, while walking, sud- denly has a severe pain, which prevents his walking for the time be- ing ; the knee stands between flexion and extension, and cannot be moved till it has been rubbed in a certain way. This symptom is due to the loose body being caught between the bones forming the joint, between the semilunar cartilages, or in one of the synovial sacs. But, even before this, these patients usually complain for weeks or months of weakness or slight pain in the knee, and, as already stated, exami- nation will generally show a slight amount of dropsy there. From the peculiar mode of occurrence and subsidence of the pain, the pa- tients themselves often suspect that there is a movable body in their knee-joint; not unfrequently they can feel it distinctly, and can, by certain motions of the joint, render it jaerceptible to the surgeon. In other cases the surgeon does not feel the body till after several ex- aminations, and can move it around in various directions; it often disappears again, and it may be several days or weeks before it again comes in a position where it can be felt. These sym23toms only be- come very evident when the body is detached. While stHl adherent, or, if too large to be caught as above mentioned, it causes little or no difficulty. Hence, although the inconveniences of a loose body and of a mod- erate dropsy of tbe knee-joint are not always great, and do not increase spontaneously, or go on to suppurative inflammation, and only have occasional subacute inflammation, with serous effusion after some exciting cause, still, in other cases, the pain from the squeezing, and the anxiety about being constantly liable to it, are so great that many patients imperatively demand aid. The attempt to fix these bodies by adhesive inflammation, induced either by a comjjressive bandage, tincture of iodine, or blisters, has had little success. The operation consists in the extraction of the foreign body; it is done as follows : The loose body is pressed tightly under the skin, at one side of the joint; the skin over it is then pressed strongly upward, and put still more on the stretch; then cut through the skin and capsule down on to the body, and let the latter spring out, or lift it out with an elevator (perhaps an ear-spoon, as Foch has done); instantly close the wound with the finger, extend the leg, let the skin return to its normal position, so that the cut in it lies lower than in the capsule, and the two wounds do not commu- nicate directly; the skin-wound is now to be closed with sutures and