TUMORS. 676 cysts do not occur, and they are very rare in the mucous membranes deep in the body. ITeoplastic cysU. These result mostly from softening of tissue previously diseased by cell-infiltration, or of firm tumor-substance. As soon as the new formation has separated into sac and fluid con- tents, in some cases a secretion from the inner Avail of the sac begins, so that the softening cyst becomes a secretion or exudation cyst, and thus grows. Any tissue rich in cells may be transformed into a cyst by mucous metamorphosis of the protoplasm, or, as others express it, by separation of the mucous substance through cells, without any connection Avith development of mucous glands. In the foetus, AA^e knoAV there is a development of cavities (i. e., the joints) by mucous softening of the cartilaore-tissue. In cartilage-tissue there is often a mucous softening of certain parts, by Avhich chondromata Avith mucous cysts are deA’^eloped. In the same Avay it is not uncommon for parts to become fluid and encapsulated; the same thing occurs in sarcoma, especiallj^ in giant-celled sarcoma. The often slit-shaped, smooth- Avalled cysts, Avith serous or sero-mucous contents Avhich occur in uterine myomata, are possibly enormously dilated l_yTnph-spaces. Bone-cysts ahvays originate by softening; the often glistening smooth membrane lining such cysts may in the course of time actually secrete. While the aboA'^e varieties of neoplastic cysts haA^e no relation to gland new formations, those Ave are noAv about to mention develojA from adenoma. The cysts of the thyroid, cystic goitre, already men- tioned (page 672), have a somcAvhat uncertain position in this series; uncertain because they are not due to newly-formed gland follicles or ducts, but to collection of mucous secretion in one of the thyroid vesi- cles. If Ave term the contents of these cysts secretion, as Ave might do for some reasons, Ave must class these cysts as retention-cj'^sts. But, aa it might be urged on the other hand that it Avould be questionable to speak of a secretion of the thyroid gland, as some state that normally the contents of the thyroid vesicles consist solely of cells, Ave may also consider the cysts resulting from softening of the contents of the A'esi- cles as newly formed. W^hichever view Ave take, it is certain that the cysts of the thyroid may be solitary, and may attain great size. I\Iort!- over, in almost CA'^ery large, and in some small, otherwise firm goitres, one or more cysts occur; they usually haA'C A'cry smooth Avails. The large, isolated cysts of this variety, particularly, gi\^e the impression that they are chiefly secretion-cysts, Avhile other similar cavities in other parts of large goitres, by their softened, ragged Avails, give the impre|sion of being softening cysts. In the thyroid gland the j^rocess of softening usually terminates in the formation of a mucous fluid;