100 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. may often prevent the development of these processes by early evac- uation of the decomposing matter. It is not the fiierc presence of blood between the tissues that causes these affections, for that often occurs in severe contusions without wounds and induces no bad re- sults ; it is the decomposition of the blood, and the peculiarly phlogo- genous and pyrogenous properties of the first exudation, which cause the danger. Hence, in treating tliese wounds, we must take care, first, to prevent collection of blood and secretion in the wound, and secondly, in case this has not succeeded, to prevent decomposi- tion of these fluids,, so that they may rest quietly until absorbed, as they would if the skin had not been injured. Of course, if there be no blood or secretion in the wound, they cannot decompose ; hence it is most important to prevent their col- lection. This would be most simply prevented by not closing up deep wounds, but filling them with charpie, wadding, or similar bib- ulous material, after carefully arresting the hmmorrhage ; this dress- ing must be renewed as often as it becomes saturated. This method was used for years, and was considered satisfaotorv, as no other way was known ; still, as we now know better methods, wo think the reaction was considerable, although less than accompanied tlie irri- tative treatment of the middle ages ; inflammations spreading from the wound were frequent, and were referred to individual peculiari- ties, then to general influences of the atmosphere or to hospital air. It is only within the last twenty years that the propriety of the above treatment has been questioned, and new ways, based on differ- ent hypotheses, have been sought. This led to two opposite meth- ods : one entirely without dressings (open treatment of wounds), the other accurate closure and air-tight dressing (method by occlu- sion). In the open treatment of wounds, which can only be used with facility in wounds of the extremities, the part is so placed that the secretion may flow readily into a vessel placed beneath. Tlie first two days this secretion is of a dark blood-color and thin ; from the third to the fifth day it becomes light brownish, tlien yellow, and soon in the vessel the jius-serum separates from the lumpy flakes of pus-cells; at the ordinary temperature of the room this secretion does not begin to smell badly in twenty-four hours, unless consider- able quantities of decomposing dead shreds of tissue lie in the wounds and pass off with the secretion. This freedom from smell must strike anv one who has smelt dressings that have been removed from •a wound after being applied twenty-four hours. The bodily tem- perature to which this secretion is subjected while in the dressing is doubtless the cause of its more rapid decomposition. Sliould one a priori suppose that with such adressiii'^ collection of the secretion