DISTURBED GROWTH OF THE JOINTS. 561 pathological softening, accomiaanied by pain and the disturbances of growth in the ends of the bones caused by the abnormal burden, in- crease rapidly ; there is a corresponding- change in the ligaments and muscles, and the clianges begun here, react on the form and develop- ment of the entire skeleton. The most important examples of this {ixe scoliosis, genu valgum, and joes Bv “scoliosis” (from anoXtog, curved) we mean the state of the spinal column, where it is constantly bent to one side, and where this curvature has become permanent. As already mentioned, such a po- sition may arise from abnormal formation of the vertebrae ; it may also be due to enormous distention of one side of the thorax from pleuritic effusion, or to collapse of one side of the chest from reabsorption or evacuation of such effusion, or lastly to fixation of the pelvis in an oblique position, either from apparent or real shortening of a leg after a joint or bone disease, or other cause. All these are relatively rarely the causes of the scolioses of which we are here treating ; these usually occur in young girls shortly before puberty. These curva- tures have a typical form ; as a rule the lumbar portion of the spinal column is convex to the left, and the upper dorsal portion is convex to the right. It is a matter of dispute whether the lower or upper curvature comes first; whether the first is the primary and the latter secondary or compensatory, or the reverse; as a rule we find both curvatures from the start, they jjrobably develop about the same time. If the faulty position remain unobserved and without treatment, and the unfavorable conditions continually increase, the right scapula is elevated (the first marked symptom), and as the vertebrte gradually rotate the deformity constantly increases, the upper part of the spine projects as a gibbosity, the position of the head changes correspond- tlie thorax is displaced, in short a hump-back is developed. From anatomical reasons, which have been carefully traced by JL Meyer, the protrusions of the spine posteriorly (cyphosis, from icvcjiog, gibbosity) always accompany high grades of curvature, so these de- formities are also called “ cypho-scolioses.” Most old persons with humps belong to this class; patients with caries of the vertebrm rarely attain old age ; hence, we only see the so-called Pott’s curva- ture caused by caries of the vertebrae, in children and very young per- sons. The chief cause of scoliosis is weakness of the spinal muscles ; as long as feeble children are left entirely to themselves, and can lie down, sit, walk, or run, as they wish, and as long as they feel like it, scoliosis rarely develops; but when tliey are made to occupy certain tiresome positions for hours, as in writing, reading, sewing, jilajdng the piano, etc., they will seek positions where the muscles for keei> ing the body erect arc used the least. These positions become cus-