379 PYAEMIA. chills) occur far more frequently in persons in whom subsequent autopsy shows inflammation of internal organs than in those where this is not the case. It must be mentioned, as a matter of observa- tion, that chills occur almost exclusively in the commencement of acute inflammations, and are intermittent only in intermittent fever and reabsorption of pus, while they do not occur in acute septicsemia. Probably the chemical qualities of the infecting matter here play an important but unknown role. Unfortunately, experiment here leaves us entirely in the dark; I have never succeeded in exciting chills or intermittent attacks in rabbits, dogs, or horses, by injections of putrid substances or good pus; pus and putrid matter have the same ac- tion on animals, as regards fever ; we can only artificially excite the intermittent,course of the fever in animals by repeating the injec- tions. From what you have just heard, you will understand that the usual method of measuring temperature morning and evening can give no picture of the course of the fever in pyaemia ; for in this way the measurement may fall at one time in the acme, again in the deferves- cence of an attack of fever, or at another time in the remission (com- plete intermission of the fever rarely happens in pyaemia) ; thus we would of course have very irregular fever-curves. To obtain an ac- curate picture of pyaemic fever, it would be necessar}' to leave the thermometer constantly in position, and to note the temperature every hour or so; as this would greatly annoy the patient, and we have enough other signs to decide the prognosis and treatment, I have been unable to make up my mind to do this. The investiga- tions as to whether pyemic pus contains peculiar substances, or its qualitative composition differs from that of the pus in persons who recover without any complications, have thus far proved without re- sult. The pus of pysemic patients does not always smell bad, nor always contain cocci; still cases where putrid pus containing cocci enters the circulation are the more frequent. We do not know whether the pus coccus grows after entering the blood. I have not found cocci and bacteria in the blood of pyaemic patients. The mode of onset of pyaemia varies in some respects. Most fre- quently this disease, which we regard as a peculiar, malignant form of suppurative fever, begins when suppuration begins, or later, when new inflammations occur about the wound, whether they be imme- diately connected with the traumatic inflammation, or occur acciden- tally after the point of traumatic inflammation has been bounded. Tlien the pymmic fever develops from the traumatic fever, or from the secondary fever, and in such cases these are considered by some ob- servers as prodromal stages of pyaemia. The moment when the pa-