SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT FARTS. 44 ’ The thread is usually of gilk, whose coarseness corresponds to the size of the needle. Formerly I always sewed Avith the red German silk, Avhich has long been used for this purpose; but in England I found a sort of undyed, strongly-twisted silk, which, even when very fine, is so strong that, with thread as fine as a hair, we may sew up wounds and draw them together. Moreover, this silk imbibes so little moistiwe that it may lie for days in the wound without swelling or ir- ritating. Now I use only this so-called Chinese silk. Another mate- rial for sutures has been lately used in England and America, auz., silver or iron wire. It must be very fine and soft; the iron wire for this purpose is Avell annealed. The trial of this material was first induced by the long-known fact that, when metals were introduced under the skin or anywhere in the body, they usually excited no suppuration, but the parts often healed over them. Hence, it was thought that the inflammations often occurring at the points of suture might be avoided by using metal instead of the animal substance silk. In truth, it cannot be denied that this suppuration is less apt to occur from metal than from silk thread, still experiments of Simon have shoAvn that the suppuration from sutures depends greatly on the thick- ness of the thread. From my own experience I can affirm that fine silk threads cause as little suppuration along the course of the suture, and may heal in, just as well as metal ones. We come noAV to the application of the interrupted suture. You do it as folloAVS : with a toothed forceps you first seize one lip of tlie wound; pass the needle through the skin, about two lines from the edge, as deep as the subcutaneous tissue, and bring it out through the wound; now seize the other lip of the wound Avith the forceps and pierce it from the wound up toward the skin, exactly opposite the first point of entrance, then draw the thread through and cut it off, leaving both sides long enough to tie readily in a knot. Now make a simple, or, if the tension of the borders of the Avound be great, a surgeon’s knot, and draAv it tight, seeing that the edges of the Avound are in exact apposition; then make a second knot, and cut off both threads, close to the knot, so that no long ends of thread may get in the Avound. Should you desire to use Avire, you thread it as you do the silk on the needle, draAV a short portion through the eye and bend it, then make the suture as above described. When the Avire is very soft, Ave can tie a knot Avith it nicely, just as Avith a silk thread; still, the Avhole of this manipulation is much less pleasant with Avire than Avith silk thread, and on closing the knot the border of the skin is readily displaced, or there may be twists, that render the hold less secure;