ACUTE PERIOSTITIS. 303 Even in this stage the. disease may take one of two different direc- tions: possibly, after the evacuation of the pus, the soft parts 7oay quickly become adherent to the bone, as the walls of an acute abscess do to each other. I have seen this a few times fli periostitis of the femur in children two or three years old. After the ojcening, a slight quantity of pus continued to discharge for only a short time. The openings soon closed entirely, the tumor receded, and perfect recovery took place. But, according to my experience, such a termination only occurs in small children. More frequently, as a result of the suppu- ration of the periosteum, the bone is mostly robbed of its nutrient vessels, and partly or wholly dies, leaving the condition termed necrosis, or gangrene of the bone. The extent of this neerosis v ill essentially depend on the extent of the periostitis. The partially or entirely destroyed diaphysis of the long bones must be detached as a foreign body, as we have seen to be the case in gangrene of the soft parts and traumatic necrosis. This requires a long time ; hence the process of necrosis, the detachment of the portion of dead bone or sequestrum, and every thing connected with it, is always a chronic one. We shall have to speak of this hereafter. Before the inflamma- tion passes into this chronic state, acute suppuration continues for a time after the first opening of the abscess. Various complications, even pya3mia, may occur. Whenever these patients are feverish, they are in danger. We must again return to the medulla of the bone, which we left in the first stage of inflammation. Here, also, the inflammation may terminate in suppuration. If the osteomyelitis be diffuse or total, the whole medulla may suppurate. This suppuration may even assume a putrid character, and induce septicmmia. If there be extensive sup- purative osteomyelitis, with suppurative periostitis, death of the dia- physis of the bone is certain. Should there be only partial suppura- tion of the medulla, or if there be none at all, the circulation of blood in the bone may be preserved and the bone remain viable. It may not infrequently occur that, under such circumstances, the bone will waver for a time between life and death, as the feeble circulation nourishes the bone very incompletely. Acute suppurative osteomye- litis, without participation of the periosteum, probably does not occur; it is not infrequently combined with osteophlebitis, which may end in putrefaction or sui)[)iiration of the thrombus, and is prone to induce metastatic abscesses. Another not infrequent, though not constant, accompaniment of osteomyelitis is suppuration of the epiphyseal car- tilages in persons in whom they still exist, that is, till about the twenly-fourth year. The process is notdilTicult to explain. Thesiqi- puration may extend to the epiphyseal cartilage partly from the