BURNS AND FROST-BITES. 208 midst of a granulating wound, and this has given rise to the false idea that the latter could cicatrize not only from the edges but from dill'er- ent points in the midst of the wound. But such cicatricial islands never form where there is total absence of the papillary bodies of the skin, but only from some remnants of the rete Malpighii, as may hap- pen in burns and certain ulcerations to be hereafter mentioned. The prognosis for the function of burnt parts may be inferred from what has been said. We should, however, add that after extensive loss of the skin, as occurs especially from burns of the neck and upper ex- tremities by hot liquids, there is very considerable cicatricial contrac- tion, by which, for instance, the head may be completely drawn to one side of tlie neck, or anteriorly to the sternum, or the arm fixed in a flexed position by a cicatrix in the bend of the elboAv. In the course of time these cicatrices become more distensible and pliable, but rarely to such an extent as entirely to remove the disturbance of function and the disfigurement, so that in many cases plastic operations are necessary to improve these conditions. It was formerly asserted that the cicatrices after burns contracted more strongly than any other cicatrices. But this is only apparently so, for scarcely any other in- jury ever causes the loss of such large portions of skin; we may readily perceive that, when this does occur (as in plastic operations and after extenswe destruction of the skin by ulcerations), the con- traction of the cicatrix is ju'st as great. Entirely apart from the different degrees of burns, their efxtent is of the greatest importance, as regards their danger to life. It is gen- erally said that, if two-thirds of the surface of the body be burned only in the first degree, death soon occurs, in a manner that has as yet received no physiological explanation. Persons thus injured fall into a state of collapse, with small pulse, abnormally low temperature, and dyspnoea, and die in a few hours or days. In other cases life lasts somewhat longer; death occasionally results from severe diai- rhoea, with the formation of ulcers in the duodenum, near the pylorus, a complication which also sometimes comes in sejjticaemia. Hie rapid occurrence of death from extensive burns has received various ex- planations : first, it was asserted that simultaneous irritation of almost all the peripheral nerve-terminations in the skin was too great an irri- tant for the central nervous system, and hence caused paralysis; then that the cutaneous perspiration Avas aivested, and death was to be ex- plained here, as in the case of animals, whose whole body has been coA’^ered Avith an air-tight layer of oil-paint, caoutehouc, oi pitch. In the latter hypothesis it is assumed that the excretion by the skin of certain substances, especially of ammonia, is interfered A\ith by tlie impermeable coating (as by the burning of the skin), and that a fatal