160 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. It is entirely impossible to tell beforehand the influence of the general state of the patient on this local process. ^ It is true we may say in general terms that it is energetic iti the strong, stout, and young, more moderate and sluggish in weak persons; but on this point we are often deceived. From what has already been said you may suppose that contused wounds need much longer to heal than more simple incised ones. It will also be evident that there may be circumstances under which amputation of the limb will be necessary, all the soft parts being en- tirely mashed and torn. There are cases where the soft parts are so torn from the bonfe that this alone remains ; so that on the one hand cicatrization cannot occur, and on the other, if the extremity did heal in months or years, it would be perfectly useless, and hence it would be better to remove it at once. Still, even the simple complete detach- ment of the skin from the greater part of an extremity may some- times, though rarely, I'ender amputation necessary, as in the case of a girl who lost the skin from the wrist to the ends of her fingers be- tween the rollers of a spinning machine. Fortunately such cases are not frequent; in similar injuries of sin- gle fingers we mostly leave the detachment to nature, so that no more is lost than is absolutely incapable of living ; for we should always remember in maiming of the hand that every line, more or less, is of importance, that especially single fingers, and particularly the thumb, should be preserved whenever possible, for sucl) fingers, if only slightly capable of performing their functions, are more useful than the best- made artificial hand ; for the foot and lower extremity there are other considerations, of which we shall hereafter speak when we come to complicated fractures of bones. Would that this maiming and slow healing, bad as they are, were the only cares we had with our patients having contused wounds ! Unfortunately there is a whole series of local and general complica- tions which directly or indirectly endanger life. We sliall fir.st speak of the chief local complications; for the more gcnei'al, the “accidental diseases in wounds,” we reserve a future chapter. Considerable danger may arise from the decomposing tissue on the wound infecting the healthy parts. Putrid matters act as fer- ments on other organic combinations, especially on fluids containing them; they induce 2>rogressive decomposition. We might wonder 1 hat such extensive decomposition of the part which is injured, if not killed, should not occur more frequently than it actually does. But in most cases cell-action occurs so quickly on the border of the living tissue that a sort of living wall is formed ; this new formation does not read- ily permit the passage of putrid matter, and the granulation surface,