TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 402 not begin till toward the end; in some cases death is preceded the severest tetanic s])asins; others die after the convulsions and the fear of Avater have completely ceased, and when the patient and surgeon have been led into vain hopes. Unfortunately, pathological anatomy gives us no explanation of this Avonderful and fearful disease. There can be no doubt that the spinal medulla is alfected, but it has not yet been determined whether the nerve-substance itself is diseased. As regards the prognosis, in those patients Avhere the disease has broken oui, there is no hope. It may be considered proper, in all cases, to cauterize or burn out the bites of mad animals, and to keei> them supjDurating a long time; at least this is the only rational treat- ment, It cannot be certainly decided from past observations Avhether excision of such a cicatrix can be useful after the disease has already broken out ; it would at all events be a rational treatment. In the developed disease, almost all the powerful remedies in the materia medica and in surgery have been tried ; all the narcotics haA’’e been used in large and small doses ; opium and belladonna especially, used in almost poisonous doses, and the artificial benumbing of the patient, have at least alleviated tlieir sufferings, if they have done no other good. The limb containing the cicatrix has been amputated in vain. In one patient, Dieffenhach tried transfusion in vain. Where there is dread of water, some fluid may be introduced through a tube ; the patients are most comfortable when at absolute rest in a half-darkened room ; in combating the convulsions, chloroform narcosis has repeatedly proved most serviceable, and patients who have once become acquainted with this remedy beg for it again. But this comprises the little that Ave can do for these unfortunates. The three diseases last mentioned enter so much into the domain of veterinary surgery, sanitary regulations, and internal medicine, that I could here give you only a slight sketch of them. You Avill find moi’e accurate information on tlie subject in \ irchoic's special pa- thology, Bd. II., Section Zoonosen, where the special literature is also given. In the surgery published by V. Pltha and myself you will also find (vol. i., part ii.) an exhaustive section on the Zoonoses.