CARCINOMATA. 699 regard all the cells occurrino’ here as derived from connective tissue. The final decision in this matter can only be made by the history of development; as long as we have no means of always distinguishing the young derivatives of epithelial cells from wandering white blood- cells, and the derivatives of connective tissue, we shall scarcely be able to say from every preparation whether this form of cancer of the mamma is more of an epithelial or connective-tissue nature. Although all forms of cancer of the breast have a tendency to ulcerate, this is more the case in the softer than in tho harder forms. The hardness of cancer of the mamma does not always depend on its richness in cells, but even acinous cancers that are rich in cells may be hard, if the cells are enclosed in tense connective-tissue capsules, as the normal acini are. The softening is central in nodules lying near the skin, or in the harder forms it is more frequently from with- out inward at points where the tumor presses against the skin and has become united to it. Mucous softening occurs rarely, mucous metamorphosis of the gland-cells is probablj’’ never seen. To the naked eye the softened spots appear whitish-yellow, granular (cas- eous, fatty softening) or grayish or dark red from vascularity, espe- cially if there have been extravasations. By softening and. enca2> sulation of the softened spot, which may be deeply seated, cysts may be formed in these carcinomata; retention and secretion cysts may also be developed in the mamma along with or in the cancerous tumor. Fig. 163. Cancer of the tu.'imina, from a cicatricially-atropliied part. Magnilled 200 diameters. Atrophy is a very frequent process in cancer of the mamma; the nipple or other parts are thus retracted like the navel. On micro* Bcopic examination of those atrophied parts we see connective-tissue strim with atrophied connective-tissue corpuscles, and the section of fine, branched canals (atrophied alveoli) which are filled with cell