563 PARALYSES OF MUSCLES. ing that there is a slight amount of rachitis, horinsen and some other authors claim that the above cause is very prominent in the eti- ology of curvature of the spine. Ilueter, Henlce, and other authors, claim that in all these deformities the articular surfaces grow obliquely and uneven; this certainly has much to do with the in- crease of the disease, but can scarcely be recognized as a cause. The results of recent investigations render it improbable that (idiopathic) contraction and relaxation of the articular ligaments cause these de- formities, as 1 was formerly inclined to beUeve, although, from the displacement and deformity of articular surfaces of the bones, they must occur. III. DEFORMITIES DUE TO CONTRACTIONS OR PARALYSES OF SINGLE MUSCLES OR GROUPS OF MUSCLES. This class of cases is very numerous. Acute inflammations in muscular substance, or in the immediate vicinity of muscles under tense fascias, may cause contractions simply by rendering the stretch- ing of the inflamed muscle very painfid. It is very common in deep abscesses of the neck to find the head inclined to the affected side, so that the patient is entirely unable to straighten it; and this can only be done under anaesthesia, when it is readily accomplished. I once saw a foot fixed in the position of pes equinus by an abscess in tlie mus- cles of the calf of the leg. Acute inflammation of the psoas muscle (psoitis and peri-psoitis) often causes the hip-joint to be flexed at an acute angle. When the pus is evacuated these contractions diminish, and often gradually disappear entirely; but sometimes the cicatrix is so large that it continues the contraction, which is afterward re- moved Avith difficulty. Secondly, direct nervous irritation from disease of the nervous centres may cause permanent contractions; when these cases start from the brain, they offer very little chance for treatment. In caries of the spinal column and transfer of the inflammation to the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, muscular contractions and paralysis of the limbs sometimes occur simultaneously ; in one such case I saw a nearly complete cure occur spontaneously. Reflex paralysis ma}’’ also occur. I have seen such cases Avhere the thigh, hand, and foot, Avere affected, particularly in young Avomen; in some cases these contractions Avere induced by falls on the parts, in others by irritation of the genital system (hysterical contractions). Tliese cases relax during sleep and anmsthesia. Liistly, Ave come to the most frequent of all of these groups, the so-called ]xiralytic contraotions^ such as occur after partial or total