574 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. wide field of neuropathology, with which you will become better ac- quainted in the lectures on medicine, and in the medical clinic. There are many cases where you would at the outset give up any treatment of the paralysis; in tumors of the brain, apoplexies, chronic encephalitis, traumatic injuries of the spinal medulla, extensive injuries of nerves, etc., treatment will do little good. Other cases of spinal disease with paresis of the lower limbs, especially in children, sometimes give a relatively good prognosis. On the one hand, treatment with cod-liver oil and iron, malt or salt baths, and especially time, may act very ad- vantageously in removing the changes in the spinal medulla, of which we unfortunately know but little; on the other hand, irritations may be applied to the muscles themselves, that may revivify them; we may expect relief in those cases especially where there is no complete paralysis or paraplegia, but only paresis of certain groups of muscles. Here two external remedies are the most useful; 1. Gymnastic treat- ment; 2. Electricity. The former consists in awakening the slumber- ing, slightly-developed contractile power by concentrating the will on the paretic muscles. Certain movements are made regularly at cer- tain times; this may be well done by the “ Swedish movement-cure ” that has been recently introduced: this consists in requiring the patient to make movements vdth certain muscles, while the gymnast offers a slight opposition. For instance, I hold your arm extended; you now bend it, while I oppose the movement by gentle pressure; of course, the proper movements must be determined for each individual case. Of late, this method of gymnastics has become quite popular, and proved useful; evidently it, like all gymnastics, is useless in com- plete paralysis. Our second remedy is electricity; of late great advances have been made in its use. The apparatus employed has been greasy simijlified, rendered more transportable, and so adjusted that the current can be strengthened or weakened at will. Moreover, the methods in which eleo tricitv is applied are greatly improved ; formerly one or several groups of muscles of a limb were electrified, by applying the poles first on oi.e place then another; now we understand electrifying the individual muscles; the French physician Euchenne de Boxdoyne has done great service in this matter. The points at which the pole or poles should be applied to induce contractions in the different muscles were first found empirically hy Euchenne; subsequently discovered that, as a rule, it was at the point where the largest motoi- nerve entered the muscle. Of late, Ziemssen has been most successful in electro-thera- peutics ; his book is characterized by practical utility and scientific importance, and above all by its trustworthiness. The treatment is BO carried out that usually one or two sittings are had dailv, during