CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 654 in straightening the knee. But this is not always the case ; fre- quently at the first operation we dare not go so far without risking serious consequences. What circumstances can prevent our complet- ing the operation at one sitting ? These are chiefly extensive cica- trices of the skin, which demand very great precautions; cicatrices in the hollow of the knee are especially difficult to deal with, and must be extended gradually; they would be torn if we tried to force the extension. Occasionally, also, the cicatrices surround large vessels and nerves, whose sheaths may have participated in the previous ul- ceration, and tearing these parts ^\ ould be a very serious, perhaps fatal complication. Breaking uj3 of any cicatrix may be followed by suppuration, or even mortification; hence Ave should never stretch cicatrices of the skin to the extreme point to rujjture them. Hav- ing reached the point Avhere the cicatrices are very tense, Ave should stop, ajjply the dressing, and repeat the operation in four to six Aveeks, and so on till Ave accomplish our object. A further circumstance requiring attention is the faulty position of the tibia, that may have resulted from caries of the knee, especially its inclination to luxation baclcAvard; it is ahvays difficult, sometimes impossible, to correct this position of the knee, but we succeed best by making the extension very gradually; under such circumstances, forced extension Avould induce luxation baclcAvard — then perfect straightening Avould be impossible. You must not expect that the knee will again acquire its beautiful normal shape, even if it be quite straight; this never occurs, but, as Ave are not called on to go about Avith naked knees, as the Highlanders do, the shape does not make so much difference, if the knee be only straight and firm enough to Avalk on. Although joints Avith tumor albus may be brought into the most serviceable position at almost any time, eA^en A\dien there are fistulse present, and should be placed in a closed bandage or knee-cap, still, the period A\dien fistulm haA*e just closed, and the cicatrices are fresh, dense, and tender, is most unfavor- able for the extension, for then rupture of the cutaneous cicatrices and neAV suppuration will be most liable to occur. In such cases I noAV never resort to sudden straightening under amesthesia, but ahvays employ extension by Aveights. What has here been said in regard to straightening the knee-joint may apply equally to the hip and ankle. Anchyloses of the shoulder and elboAV have a totally different functional significance; in them the problem is to restore mobility, and this cannot be obtained by break- ing up tlie anchylosis and applying a plaster-bandage. If, on straightening a knee, Avherc there have been fcAv adhe- sions, and the joint is tolerably healthy, Ave Avish to obtain mobility.