140 SOME PECULIARITIES OF PUXCTUIIED WOUNDS. veins appear in the bend of the elbow. You choose, for opening, the vein which is most prominent. The arm of the patient is flexed at an obtuse angle; with the left thumb you fix the vein, with the lancet or a very pointed straight scalpel in the right hand you puncture the vein and slit it up longitudinally two or three lines. The blood escapes in a stream; you allow sufficient to flow, cover the puncture with your thumb, remove the bandage from the arm above, and the bleeding will cease spontaneously; the wound should be covered with a small com- press and a bandage; the arm should be kept quiet three or four days, then the wound will be healed. Easy as this operation is in most cases, it still requires practice. Puncture with the lancet or scalpel is to be preferred to the spring-lancet; the latter was formerly very pop- ular, but is now very justly going out of fashion; the spring-lancet is a so-called fleam, which is driven into the vein with a spring; we allow the instrument to operate, instead of doing it ourselves more certainly with the hand. Various obstacles may interfere with venesection. Li very fat per- sons it is often difficult to see or feel the veins through the skin; then besides compression we employ another means, that is holding the forearm in warm water, which increases the afflux of blood to this part of tlie body. Moreover, after opening the vein the fat may impede the escape of the blood by fat-lobules lying in the opening; these should be quickly snipped off with the scissors. Occasionally the flow of blood is mechanically obstracted by the arm being rotated or bent at a different angle after the puncture has been made, so that the open- ing in the vein no longer corresponds to that in the skin; this is to be met by changing the position of the arm. There are other causes for the blood not flowing properly; such as the puncture being too small, a frequent fault with beginners; the compression is too weak, this may be improved by tightening the bandage ; or, on the contrary, the com- pression is too great, so that the artery is also compressed, and little or no blood flows from the arm, this may be obviated by loosening the venesection bandage. Aids for increasing the flow of blood are: dip- ping the hand in w’arm water, and having the patient rhythmically open and close the hand, so that the blood may be forced out by the muscular contractions. We shall speak further on this point, as op portunity offers, in the clinic.