360 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. located (usually where the artery divides into smaller branches), and the latter may have new clots deposited around it, and be organized to connective tissue, or be reabsorbed. Should the embolus consist of a fibrinous clot impregnated with pus or putrid matter, it excites sup- purative or putrefactive inflammation, not only in the wall of the ves- sel, but also in the parts around. The metamorphosis of the red infarc- tion in part depends on its size, partly on the grade of the circulation still continuing in parts of it, and partly on the embolus causing the trouble. If the latter be innocuous and the infarction be small, or if it be still nourished by some vessels not thrombosed, the coagulum forming the infarction may again be dissolved, or else become organ- ized to a connective-tissue cicatrix. If the embolus be innocuous, but the thrombus extending completely through the whole infarction, the tissue and coagulum slowly disintegrate to a yellow, granular, dry pulp, which becomes encapsulated, and may calcify; this is yellow dry infarction. If the embolus be impregnated with putrid matter or pus, it excites putrid or suppurative inflammation all about it; the in- farction also becomes putrid or purulent, and abscesses form. As we were just speaking of tlie lungs, we may here mention that these ab- scesses, w’hich are usually peripheral, often excite pleurisy; that tliey are most frequently multiple in both lungs, and may even induce sup- puration of the pulmonary pleura over the abscess, and may thus occasionally cause pneumothorax. You can hardly imagine, gentlemen, what labor it costs to demon- strate this connection between venous thrombi and abscess of the lung, so that I can here announce it to you as a simple fact. \ on will read the classical works of Virchow, Panum, O. Tleier, and others, on this subject, with astonishment; it would take too long for me to enter into the subject more fully; we shall here assume the right of only taking the facts from these works. We now understand lung infarctions and abscesses; but how is it with those that occur under like circumstances, although much more rarely, in the liver, spleen, kidneys, and muscles ; are these also always dependent on emboli ? A few years since we could not have answered this ques- tion with certainty; now we may affirm it. From experimental in- vestigations, especially those of O. Weber, it is established that cer- tain forms of emboli, especially flocculi of pus, pass the pulmonary capillaries without difficulty, may enter the left heart, and thence the systemic circulation, ajid be arrested in the spleen, liver, kidneys, or elsewhere, and cause abscesses. This explains the rare cases Avhere, with venous thrombus, there are no abscesses in the lungs, while they exist in other organs. If, with abscesses in the lungs, there are em- bolic infarctions or abscesses in part sujiplied by the systemic circula- tion, they may be attributed to the formation of venous thrombi