317 INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. the above category of pyaemic, suppurative synovitis. But not unfre- quently, the third or fourth w'eek after parturition, there is an acute suppui’ative inflammation of the knee and elbow joints, which has been referred to various causes. Some say it is a simple form of acute articular inflammation due to catching cold, to which women are par- ticularly liable after confinement, because they perspire so much. Others are of the opinion that tliese late inflammations of the joints are also symptoms of pyfemia that have been overlooked and are isolated, and hence consider them as metastatic. Let this be as it may, it is at all events certain that these cases have nothing specific. They run either an acute or subacute course, and, under suitable treat- ment, may be so controlled that the joint will remain movable ; but sometimes a more chronic course begins later and terminates in anchylosis. The prognosis is not very bad. They rarely reach the highest grade of acuteness. The treatment is the same as that already given for acute suppurative synovitis. I would also mention that purulent articular inflammations occur in the pyaemia of the newly-born; children are even occasionally bom with them, as has been witnessed by myself and others. Inflamma- tions of the joints may develop and even run their course during foetal life, as is shown by the cases where children are born with joints fully developed but anchylosed. APPENDIX TO CHAPTERS I.-XI. RETROSPECT.—GENERAL REMARICS ON ACUTE INFLAMMA TION Gentlemen: Thus far I have given you a number of clinical sur- gical pictures representing various forms of acute inflammation. We have seen injuries and their results, as well as the acute surgical dis- eases occurring without injury, and have studied the disturbed physi- ological processes, the means of their removal, and the process of this removal. It seemed as if this method would be stimulating for you, and that it was permissible, as you were supposed to have some knowledge of general pathology and some starting-point for patho- logical, physiological, and histological investigations. Still, it will not be superfluous, at the close of this first and most extensive sec- tion of our work, to give a brief rhume of the present views of in- flammation, which have been greatly advanced by recent labors of [ Cohnheim, Samuel, Arnold, and others. 22 I i