TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 358 at once be venous haemorrhage, and the formation of a new thrombus, so that even then there eould be no entrance of the pus from the Avound into the vein, or of that from the vein into the blood; moreover, the pus forming and colleeted in the vein is so shut off by the central end of the thrombus, that it cannot mingle with the blood; at least this could only happen if the central end of the thrombus should be entirely broken down, but this probably happens very exceptionally, for in most cases there are constantly new deposits of fibrine, while disinte- gration goes on from the oldest parts of the thrombus. You will thus understand that the entrance of pus into the injured A^ein cannot read- ily occur, but that, as will be soon stated, the circumstances must be very peculiar to render this possible. I must here briefi}' iuterrujR the description, to state that Virchow does not distinctly acknovAdedge the transformation of the thrombus to pus; I have no doubt on this point: if the blood-cells in the thrombus have the poAver of increasing and changing to tissue, as seems most probable, there is no reason for not referring to them the formation of pus in the thrombus, just as Ave do to the Avhite cells wandering out of the vessels, for the coagu- lation of the blood is not firm enough to entirely prevent cell-moA’e- ment. That the thrombus may change to true pus by division of the Avhite blood-cells does not appear to me disproved ; Ave have already mentioned that this pus, Avhich is usually encapsulated, does not enter the circulation, or does so very rarely, and hence has no direct con- nection Avith pyaemia. To resume my experiences of venous thrombi, and the history of thrombus, they are to the etiect that most venous thrombi are the result of very acute inflammation of cellular tissue, (especially under fasciae, or tense skin, and in bone), and that the coagulum undergoes the same metamorphoses as the inflammatory ncAV formation. If the latter lead to formation of tissue, the thiombi are also organized to connective tissue ; if the inflammation goes on to suppuration or putrefaction, the thrombi also suppurate or putiefy and break down. This is the easier to understand, as Ave knoAV, fiom Von HecMinghausen"'s and J3ubnoj^'s investigations, that tlie cells from the tissue may pass through the walls of the vein into the thrombus. The Avails of the vein have tlje same fate as the thrombus and sur- rounding tissue: they are infiltrated Avith plastic matter, and become thicker, or they suppurate. Thrombus, Avith phlebitis, may also run its course as a purely local disease, as not unfrequently hajApens after venesection, and in some other cases. Then there can only be further danger aaIicii the thrombus is friable, or when there is purulent or putrid destruc- tion of the coagulum. Tlie central end of the thrombus (as we stated Avlicn speaking of arterial thrombus) usually extends to the