FIBROMATA, LIPOMATA. 625 ductioii of tlie 6craseur; the medical public has already decided the question; almost every operating surgeon has an ecraseur, only a few hospitals have galvano-caustic apparatuses. As regards operation for non-pedunculated, more deeply-seated fibromata, some of them are not at all accessible to surgical treat- ment; we cannot recommend cutting uterine fibromata out of the abdomen, not because the operation is excessively dangerous, but because, in the course of time, these tumors usually come to a stand- still, and the annoyance they cause rarely balances the danger to life. As regards those fibromata, also, -which are not dangerous from their seat or growth, but to operate on which would be dangerous, we should bear in mind that these tumors grow very slowly, often come to a halt in advanced life: hence we should not undertake such opera- tions too hastily, or urge them too strongly. But there are many cases where we may and must operate without hesitation; extensive, frequently-repeated haemorrhages from an ulcerated fibroma, threat- ened destruction of bone, or protrusion into the skull, are urgent indications. In neuro-fibromata the pain is sometimes so severe that the patients strongly urge operation, even if we have to tell them that paralysis of the parts supplied by the nerve affected would be the necessary result, for we almost always haA^e to excise a portion of the diseased nerve Avhich possibly still performs part of its func- tions. If the neuroma be painless, it Avould be foolish to excise it. 2. LIPOMATA—FATTY TUMORS. Of course, the disposition to formation of fat, Avhen it does not exceed a certain point, is not regarded as a morbid diathesis, but rather as a sign of good nutritive condition, and varies Avith the age, being greatest between the thirtieth and fiftieth year, and being es- sentially favored by a quiet, pleasant life and phlegmatic disposition. We only begin to regard it as a disease AAdien it induces functional disturbance of different organs, or of the organism at large, or if the development of fat be limited to a small part of the body, Avhcn it appears as a fatty tumor. The anatomical formation of fatty tumors is simple; they consist of fatty tissue, Avhich, like the subcutaneous fat, is divided into lobes by connective tissue. This connective tissue may be more or less de- veloped, and tlie tumor may consequently be sometimes firm (fibro- matous lipoma), sometimes softer (simple lipoma). The shape is usually round and lobular, and the fatty mass separated from the ad- jacent structures bj’’ a thickened layer of connective tissue (circum- scribed lipoma, the usual form), and may readily be separated from the parts around ; more rarely, lipoma appears as a corpulence limited