230 APPENDIX TO CIIAPTEPri V, AND VI. corroded at the points where they were in contact with the lx)ne, while the perforation in which they lay is mostly filled with gi-anula- tions ; occasionally the pegs are not removed ; the openings through which they were introduced heal. This proves absolutely that dead hone, among which ivory is to be classed, may he dissolved and reah- sorhed hy the growing osseous granulations. We shall hereafter have frequent occasion to return to this much-contested question, which is very important in some bone-diseases; we have already spoken of the theoretical causes of this reabsorption (p. 197). Id. v. Langen- hech has modified this operation of Dieffenhach by using metal screws instead of ivory pegs; immediately after the operation he fastens these screws to an apparatus, which keeps the fragments im- movable. After all these operations, a suitable dressing must be applied to keep the fragments firm. The modes of operation in pseudarthrosis, of which I have only mentioned the principal ones, are, as you see, quite numerous; and, if the results of treatment corresi^onded to the number of remedies, this would belong to the most curable class of diseases. But in medicine you may generally take it that, with the increase in number of reme- dies for a disease, their value decreases. Easy and certain as some forms of pseudarthosis are to cure, others are just as difficult; nor are all the different methods suited to the same case. In the first place, the operations vary greatly as to danger, being much more dangerous in limbs with thick soft parts, esjaecially in the thigh, than in others; and, as may be readily supposed, the non-bloody operations are less dangerous than the bloody; those made with a small wound less so than those with larger. As regards efficacy and certaintjq I consider the introduction of a hone suture and resection as those which, even in the worst cases, give proportionately the quickest results, but which still have all the elements of danger of a fracture comphcated by a wound. The treatment with ivory pegs is less dangerous, ex- cept in the thigh, where every false joint is dangerous, and I think it would accomplish the object in most cases, if the ojieration were repeated often enough. I have seen good results from this treat- ment, and from Von Langenheclds screw ajiiparatus, as well as from the bone suture. In pseudarthrosis of the thigh the question may seriously be asked, if we should not prefer amputation at the point of the false joint (which is of favorable prognosis) to any other dangerous or doubtful operation. This question only the jjoculiarities of the in- dividual case can decide. In some cases the safe aid of a suitable splint appanitus, made by a skilful instrument-maker, is preferable to any operation.