TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT-WOUNDS. 265 tlie diapliysis of a long bone, it generally splinters it, and does so much more extensively than any other cause. The numbers of sharp splinters, and the extent of the splintering in proportion to the diame- ter of the projectile, is the most noticeable feature that we observe when first seeing a large number of gunshot-wounds. I think it is necessary and very important to examine every gun- shot-wound of the extremities with the finger quite early, and to remove fragments that are loose or slightlj' attached to the soft parts; it may be advisable now and then to cut or saw off pointed frag- ments where it can be done without much new injury or extensive incisions through the soft parts. But I would not recommend these resections in the continuity as a usual or necessary operation, for ex- perience shows that many such cases go on favorably without opera- tions. If the injury has caused a comj)licated fracture in a joint, we can- ned hope for much from an expectant treatment, according to present experience, which is based on statistics ; the question rather seems to be, whether primary resection or amputation is preferable; this can only be decided by the peculiarities of each case. Lastly, we must mention that secondary haemorrhages are par- ticularly frequent in gunshot as in other contused wounds. I consider the treatment of gunshot-fractures, by fenestrated plas- ter-bandages, as the only proper method (excepting perhaps those in the upper part of the arm or thigh); the only thing against it is, that surgeons who have not already treated open fractures with plaster- dressings, and are not adejats in the application, should not make their first experiments on gunshot-fractures, but should only apply dressings with which they are familiar. Secondary suppurative inflammations occur in gunshot-wounds even more frequently than in other contused wounds; the same causes that we have already learned for these dangerous accidents, unfortunately often act in gunshot-wounds also. We must satisfy ourselves with these few remarks on the subject of gunshot-wounds, glad as I should be to continue the subject. Those Avho feel special interest in the subject, I refer to the works already mentioned, and to a little book of my own, “ Historical Studies on the Consideration and Treatment of Gunshot-Wounds,” in which you will find the old literature brought together.