THROMBOSIS. 355 rately-known circumstances, forms the starting-point for further coagu- lation, and finally for inflammation of the wall of the vessel. Besides injuries, there is a second factor from whicli coagulations may result, viz., from retardation of the current of the blood from friction, as in contraction of the vessel; this variety may be called thrombus from compression. It also is independent of inflammation of the wall of the vein, but may result from inflammation of the perivenous tissue ; for in severe inflammation a tissue, especially when it is under the pressure of a fascia, may swell so much, joartly frorn serous, partly from 23lastic infiltration, that the vessels will be compressed, and stasis and coagulation of the blood be thus induced. These thrombi, from compression in very acute inflammation, and especially in acute acci- dental inflammation of cellular tissue around wounds, are more frequent than primary traumatic thrombi; it is the most dangerous variety of thrombus, as it is most liable to puriform deliquescence.^® In rapid dila tation of a vessel, also, according to physical laws, the current of blood is much retarded; then coagulation takes place at the point of dilatation, as we shall hereafter see in aneurisms and varices; these are called thrombi from dilatation. Furthermore, the current of blood may be retarded from insufficient contraction of the heart and arte- ries ; as this occurs chiefly in persons debilitated by age or severe ex- hausting diseases, it is called marasmic thrombus. This, also, is evi- dently indei^endent of inflammation of the veins, and occurs most fre- quently in parts distant from the heart. You must remember that in all these cases the thrombi are at first small, and gradually grow from deposit of more fibrine. It has not been proved that, in cases where the thrombus attains a considerable extent, there is any abnormal increase of fibrine in the blood, although this might bo supposed. Why traumatic thrombi should extend so far in some cases of injuries of the veins, we can only understand in cases where extensive ruptures of the vein^ are caused by extensive contusions, and extensive disturbance of the circulation is thus induced. But, in cases where a widely-branched thrombus results from a punc- tured or incised wound of a vein (as from venesection), it is often difficult to explain the cause without resorting to disputed hypotheses. Thrombi from injury and compression, and tlieir sequelm, particularly claim our attention, while those from dilatation and marasmus we rarelv meet in surgical cases. It has been observed that venous thromlfi ending in suppuration are far more frequent in hospitals than in private practice, and this tendency to coagulation of the blood has been referred to the hospital atmosphere and the miasma it contains. That hospital miasm (itself a very indefinite and very variable thing) should directly induce coagulation of the blood, can neither be proved