PYAEMIA. 377 spleen may sometimes be diagnosed by percussion. Occasionally, albumen, with epithelial and gelatinous casts and blood in the urine, especially if there be considerable coincident decrease in the amount of urine excreted, justifies a diagnosis of acute metastatic nephritis ; but during life it cannot be certainly determined whether the kidney has numerous metastatic abscesses or is diflPusely inflamed, as may also occur metastatically. Pulmonary and splenic abscesses, as well as articular inflammations, are the most frequent, while those of the liver, kidneys, and other parts above mentioned, are far more rare. There is one symptom of pysemia that we must study more care- fully, viz., chills. They occur irregularly, rarely at night, although they may come at any time of day, and their duration and intensity vary exceedingly; sometimes the patient only complains of slight cnilliness and temporary shivering, sometimes he trembles and chat- ters his teeth as hard as in “ chills and fever.” At first the chills come rarely, then more frequently, two or three times daily; toward the end they again abate. The attacks themselves resemble those of intermittent fever in regard to chill, dry heat, and sweating ; but after the attack there is no complete cessation of the fever, it almost al- ways continues to some extent. Now, what is the true nature of this chill ? When we have opportunity to make observations on ourselves we find that there is a spasmodic contraction in the skin; we must spasmodically knock the teeth together, even against our will; if tliis ceases for a moment, we do not feel cold, but rather hot, and the feeling of chilliness is more in the imagination, for otherwise we only have similar sensations and spasmodic trembling as an effect of great cold. During the chill the limbs and skin feel cold, as the blood has been driven from the capillaries by the spasm of the cutaneous mus- cles. But if you measure the bodily temperature with the thermom- eter from the commencement of the chill, you find that the tempera- ture rises constantly and rapidly, occasionally from 3° to 5° Fahr., in a quarter or half an hour. At the end of the chill, and during the period of dry heat, the bodily temperature usually attains its highest point; it may reach 108° Fahr., but rarely goes over 104.5° Fahr. ; from this point it gradually declines. The rapid increase of temper- ature is always in proportion to tlie phenomena of the chill; a cer- tain irritability of the nervous system also appears necessary for its occurrence, for in torpid or narcotized persons chills are much more rare than in very irritable subjects (see page 171). The most varied acute diseases begin with chills and fever, espe- cially the acute exanthemata, pneumonia, lymphangitis, etc.; more rarely the acute miasmatic infectious diseases, such as typhus, plague,