427 SYPHILIS. ice might answer very well, if there were not certain reasons for fearing its effects, for, from the frequent presence of atheroma of the smaller arteries, great cold might induce gangrene. There is not much to be said against the application of cold compresses, cold fo- mentations with lead-water, weak solutions of nitrate of silver, or local applications of leeches; but many gouty patients prefer greas- ing the joint and wrapping it in wadding. Profuse diaphoresis, in- duced by hot tea and hydropathic packing, is said to shorten the attacks. In the constitutional treatment of the arthritic diathesis, mineral waters take the first rank. Gouty patients should be ad- vised to use the waters of Karlsbad, Kissingen, Homburg, Vichy, and other saline springs, also the thermal waters of Teplitz, Gastein, Wiesbaden, and Aix-la Chapelle. But we may expect an acute attack of gout to follow the use of warm baths. 4. The scorbutic dyscrasia manifests itself in great fragility of the capillary vessels, and consequent subcutaneous haemorrhages, which result from ruptures of the vessels or from diapedesis, and may be induced in frogs by poisoning them with ordinary salt. This disease is supposed to be due to dissolution of the blood, without any accurate description being given of the blood-change causing the change in the vessels. The disease is almost entirely endemic, for instance, on the shores of the Baltic, and, in a surgical point of view, is not very interesting. When treating of ulcers in the next chapter, we shall refer to it again. 5. The syphilitic dyscrasia. Although I do not propose to in- clude syphilis in the subjects of these lectures, still, for the sake of completeness, I must make some remai’ks on it. This, like the above diathesis, developed in man at some time, but now it is spread entire- ly by inoculation. The person inoculated is syqahilitic from the mo- ment the virus takes effect. In speaking of syphilitic diseases in general terms, three different diseases are included: (1) gonorrhoea, a blennorrhcea of the vagina, then of the urethra, which thence oc- casionally extends to the excretory ducts of the testicles and pros- tate, and may induce gonorrhoeal prostatitis or orchitis ; prolifera- tions of the papillary bodies, in form of the so-called condylomata (Irom KovbvXog, a button-like prominence on bone), often occur where gonorrhoeal pus stagnates ; (2) the soft chancre, an ulcer, usually on the glans and prepuce, which frequently, through the lynq)hatic ves- sels, excites an innainn>ation of the inguinal glands, which has a gTcat tendency to go on to suppuration ; (3) the proper sy])hilitic ulcer, the hidurated chancre. In this the general disease occurs at the time of inoculation, while the first and second form remain relatively local. In inoculation Avilh the secretion of a true syphilitic ulcer,