VARICES AND ANEURISMS. 592 ferri is misunderstood; for it is not probable that a clot made by this substance becomes organized; it most likely merely irritates the wall of the vessel, causing it to inflame, and thereby lose the power of keeping the blood fluid {BiiXcke), thus secondarily inducing coagula- tion of that fluid and atrophy of the walls of the artery. Von Lan- genbecJc injected a solution of ergotin into the immediate vicinity of an aneurism and cured it. I explain the action here also as being an inflammation of the wall of the vessel, with the results above men- tioned. Electropuncture, nearly abandoned for a time, has been again resorted to by Giniselli, and with very good results, even in aortic aneurism; a needle is to be i^assed into the aneurism and connected to the negative pole of a galvanic battery, while the positive pole is to be applied to any part of the body. [In an interesting case re- ported by Dr. M. P. Lincoln^ in the Medical Record^ the current was passed directly through needles introduced into the tumor.] Formerly it was thought that the galvanic current had the power ot coagulating the blood directly. [This would seem to have occurred in Lincoln's case, as clotted blood escaped from the needle-punctures.] Physiologists do not consider this the mode of action, but think that the thermic efi’ect of the current causes a small eschar around the needle in the aneurism, and that the clot forms around this. If we pass several fine needles into an aneurism aud leave them twenty-four to forty-eight hours, they also will cause inflammation and formation of a clot. [At a meeting of the New York Pathological Society, Dr. Gurdon PucJc presented a specimen where needles had been used, and spoke of one where silk sutures had been employed ; he gave it as his opinion that, in view of the liability to inflammation, such proced- ures were inadmissible in arteries near the heart.] 4. We now come to the mode of operative treatment of an aneu- rism which aims at its complete destruction; if this succeed, it is of course, more certainly a radical cure than the modes above de- scribed, but it is a much more serious operation. It may be done, according to Antyllus, as follows: The artery is to be compressed above the aneurism, then the whole sac is slit ujJ and the coagulum turned out; through the sac probes are passed into the upper and lower ends of the cirtery, which is then ligated, the probes of course being removed—they are only intended to facilitate finding the artery; this operation, which I have seen performed several times for aneu- risms resulting from venesection, is not always as simple as it appears, for it is not at all times easy to find the openings of the artery in the sac filled with coagulum, and often other arteries besides the main one bleed, as a collateral cii’culation occasionally opens into the aneurism.