31G ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE BONES, PERIOSTEUM, ETC. gonorrhoea has caught cold. The incomprehensible connection be- tween purulent catarrh of the urethra and inflammations of the knee- joint might be denied, and the simultaneous occurrence of the two diseases be considered as accidental; but the experience of too many surgeons, and also cases where inflammations of the knee-joint occur after other irritations of the urethra (as by bougies), speak in its favor. Gonorrhoeal gonarthritis usually attacks both sides, and is a subacute serous synovitis, which generally soon disappears under proper rest, avoidance of new irritation of the urethra, blisters, tinc- ture of iodine, and slight compression of the joint; and, after reab- sorption of the fluid, it ends in perfect cure. But irritability of the joint is apt to remain, and not unfrequently the same person getting another gonorrhoea is again attacked with inflammation of the joints. In some cases chronic articular rheumatism is said to follow gonor- rhoeal gonarthritis. 2. JPi/cBmic inflammation also occurs very frequently in one knee, as well as in the ankle, shoulder, elbow, and wrist; rarelj'- in the hip. It is a pure purulent synovitis, subsequently accompanied by suppu- ration of the jjeriarticular cellular tissue, but usually with subacute course, and hence we do not always find it fully developed at the time of autopsy. Pysemic patients do not always die with suppuration of the joint, and I have witnessed reabsorption in cases where the patient li\’ed through the purulent infection. The treatment does not difier from that above given ; if the collection of pus is excessive, puncture will relieve the pain. Suppurations of the joint due to injuries, and lacerations of the urethra by careless catheterization, and usually accompanied by chills, are of course pyeemic, not gonorrhceal. In Berlin I treated a young man who had a rupture of the urethra caused by bougies, and consequently an abscess of the left shoulder, Avith suppuration of the acromial joint of the clavicle, which induced sub- luxation of that bone. The patient recovered perfectly; and, as the abscess was not large, it was not opened. A year later I saw the young man again. The abscess had become somewhat smaller, fluctuation was still distinct; but, as it caused no disturbance of function or other difficulty, and the patient Avas blooming and healthy, I avoided opening the abscess, and advise you to do the same Avith cold abscesses which evidently communicate with a joint, as the opening does little good and may do much harm, by pos- sibly inducing acute inflammation of the joint and A'^cry disagree- able results. 3. Puerperal inflammatiom of the joints. Puerperal fever is a torm of pyaemia that may occur after parturition. Hence, the suppu- rative inflammations of the joints occurring at that time come under