180 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. them at once with hypermanganate of potash or carbolic acid. Or- ganic beings never develop in chlorine-water (aqua chlori, with equal parts of water), solution of chloride of lime (chloride of lime two drachms, water one pint), nor do they in lead-water, in solution of acetate of alumina (alum 20, acetate of lead 35, w’ater 400), of permanganate of potash, or in sulphide of soda 50, glycerine 25, water 450 {Polli, Minnich). Lister has recommended carbolic acid as a peculiarly efficacious antiseptic; it may be diluted with oil, glycerine, or water, or made into a paste with chalk, and then spread on tin-foil, to make an air-tight covering for the wound. “ Deodor- izing powder” (coal-tar and plaster of Paris), sprinkled dry on putre- fying sores, is also good Avhere the wound is not too deep. These different modes of application, under the name of “ Lister’s dress- ing,” have been regularly tried, and it is a good thing for the pro- fession to study and become thoroughly acquainted with any method of treatment. Lister has accomplished one good, at least, in having directed attention to the antiseptic treatment, and given it a definite practical value. I consider carbolic acid as a very serviceable anti- septic, but have not found it to possess any special advantage over the remedies and modes of treatment above mefitioned. You must pay special attention to the instruments with which you touch the wound, such as probes, forceps, knives, scissors; every thing should be wiped before being used, or, if it be at all suspicious, it should be quickly rubbed with cleaning powder. Tn order to carefully ob- serve all these precautions, you must be perfectly satisfied of their necessity. If, in spite of all our care, decomposition, gangrene, or phleg- monous inflammation has started in the contused wound or its vicin- ity, we must abandon the protective'dressing directly applied to the wound; the cavities of the wound and abscesses should be dilated and fillk with wads of charpie or wadding dipped in a strong anti- septic solution. After numerous experiments I always return to acetate of lead and alumina; it is a very active desiccant and deodor- ant, without disagreeable odor. It is true, the dirty dark-giay color, due to sulphuret of lead from the sulphuretted hydrogen in the sanies and the lead in the antiseptic solution, is disagreeable, but it is harmless. Till the mortified tissues have been entirely saturated with the solution of acetate of alumina and lead, the dressing must be frequently changed, or the solution may be poured over the dress- ing every two hours. When the wound begins to clean up, one dressing daily is enough ; on simple granulating wounds this solution is too drying, irritating, and painful; later we use protective dress- ings or salves. Next to acetate of alumina and lead, chloride of lime