118 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. the mode of this process ; we shall see similar conditions in the heal- ing of broken bones, where bony union only follows accurate coapta- tion of the fragments. Now, how is it in tliis resjiect with brain and spinal tissue ? In the human being there is no regeneration here after injury, or after loss jf substance fi’om idiopathic inflammation, or at least not sufficient to restore the power of conduction. In anirmds, indeed, as JBroion-Sequard has shown in jaigeons, after dividing the spinal marrow, there may be regeneration with disappearance of the paralysis, which has of course occurred in all parts below the point of division. Unfortunately, this power of regeneration of nerves decreases in 251'oportion to the higher development of the vertebrate animals, and it is least in man. As is known, in young salamanders whole extremities grow again when they have been amputated. What a pity this is not so in man ! Howevei’, as regards the nerves. Nature occasionally seems to make a fruitless attempt at regeneration ; for quite often the nerve-ends in amputation-stumps, instead of simply cicatrizing, develop to club-shaped nodules, which are occasionally ex- cessively painful, and require subsequent excision. These nodules on the nerves consist of an entanglement of the primitive nerve-filaments, which develop from the stump of the nerve as if they would grow to meet opposite nerve-ends. The cicatrices in the continuity of nerves also are sometimes nodular from the formation of convoluted primitive filaments. Such small nerve-tumors (true neuromata) are occasion- ally excessively painful, and must be removed ^Uth the knife. But there are also traumatic neuromata, which are not at all painful, as I have seen in old amputation-stumps. In general, these proliferations of nerve-cicatrices are to be compared with the previously-mentioned hypertrophy of connective - tissue cicatrioes, and with proliferating bone, which, although rarely, is formed in great excess in the healing of broken bones. The process of healing after injury of great vessels, especially of arterial trunks, has been carefully determined by experiment. If a large artery be ligated in an ampntation or for disease in its continu- ity, as the ligature is drawn tight, the tunica intima is ruptured, and the tunica muscularis and adventitia are so constricted that their inner s\irfaces folded iq3 lie in exact apposition. You may satisfy yourselves {jf the frequent although not necessarily universal rupture of the in- ternal tunic, by ligating a large arterial trunk in the cadaver, for you not unfrcquently experience a slight grating or crackling under the finger when tightening the ligature; you may also see it on cutting open a ligated artery after detachment of the ligature. From the point of ligation to tlie next branch leaving the artery, both at the cen- tral and peripheral ends, the calibre of the vessel fills with coagulated