182 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT FARTS. healing by first intention may be tried for and succeeds occasionally^ although suppuration generally occurs. But stay, ruptures are not always exposed; there are also subcutaneous ruptures of muscles, ten- dons, or even of bones, without there having been any contusion. A person wishes to leap a ditch, and makes a start, but fails in his at- tempt ; he falls, and feels a severe pain in one leg, and limps on it. On examination, just above the heel (the tuberositas calcanei), we find a depression in wliich the thumb may be laid; the motions of the foot are imperfect, especially extension. What has happened ? The tendo Achillis has been turn from the calcaneus by the great muscular ac- tion. The same thing occurs with the tenrlon of the quadriceps femoris, which is atlaciied to the y>atella, with the patella itself, which may be torn in two, with the ligamentum patellae, Avith the triceps brachii, which may be torn from the olecranon, and generally carries a piece of the latter along with it. Here you have a few examples of such subcutaneous ruptures of tendons; I have seen subcutaneous rujrture of the rectus abdominis, of the wistus externis cruris, and other muscles. These simple subcutaneous ruptures of muscles are not serious injuries; they are readily recognized by the disturbance of function, by the depression, which may be seen and still better felt, Avhich at once occurs, but subsequently is masked by the eflFused blood. The treatment is simple: rest of the part, j^lacing it so that the rup- tured ends rnay be brought in contact by relaxation of the muscle, cold compresses, lead-water lotions for several days; after eight or ten days the patient can generally rise without pain ; at first there is a connective-tissue intermediate substance, which soon condenses so much, bv shortening and atrophy, that a firm tendinous cicatrix forms; the course is just the same as in subcutaneous division of tendons, of which we shall speak in the chapter on deformities. Functional disturbances of any considerable amount rarely re- main ; occasionally there is some w'eakness of the extiemity and loss of delicate movements, especially in the hand. For such subcutaneous rupture of muscles and tendons to be caused by contusion, the crushing force would have to be ACiy gicat; such a contusion would probably run a bad course ; extensive suppu- rations and necroses of tendons might be expected. Piero, again, aou see how varied may be the course of injuries apparently the same, accordingito the mode of their origin. In injuries by inachineiy there is often such a Avonderful combination of crushing, tA\ isting, and lacerating, that even Avith great experience it is very difficult to give any accurate jirognosis of tlieir course. The favorable course of cases, Avhere small or even large portions of a limb (as the hand) are torn off, is especially Avorthy of mention. I have seen tAvo cases Avherc