TUMORS. 710 As the first symptoms of cancer of the rectum arc usually const! pation, discharge of mucus, and slight hajmorrhage, these patients are mostly treated for some time as if suffering from hajmorrhoids, be- fore the diagnosis is made by digital examination. Induration and nodular infiltration, leaf-like proliferations commencing close above the sphincter ani, soon extend to the whole circumference of the mucous membrane, so that a thick, prominent ring, a stricture of variable length, may be felt. This new formation can only be removed by ex- tirpating the rectum. When the rectum is taken out, Ave generally find an ulcer with elevated edges and indurated base, and the parts around infiltrated with medullary substance; at some points also there are cicatricial contractions. The inguinal and retroperitoneal glands are affected rarely and late in the disease. The patients gen- erally die from the stricture of the intestine, from marasmus, due to hemorrhages, and putrefaction of the cancerous tissue. Occasionally also cancers, composed mostly of cylindrical epithe- lium, start fi-om the pars cervicalis uteri. These first attack the uterus, then the surrounding parts, and lastly infect and infiltrate the retroperitoneal glands.; they combine Avith flat epithelial cancers, and do not differ from these in their course. 4. LacJirymal^ salivary, and prostatic glands. The same kind of tumors grow from the lachrymal glands that Ave have already de- scribed as growing from the nasal mucous membrane, acinous glan- dular neAv formations, Avith soft, occasionally mucous, or even papillary hyaline interstitial connectiA'e tissue (cylindroma). They develop about the age of puberty, and are characterized by great tendency to local recurrence. All the cases of this nature that I have knoAvn of finally died from the local recurrence; it might be not for sev- eral years; neither the lymphatic glands nor internal organs Avere affected. 0. Heclcer has described tumors of this sort, in Avhich most of the glandular acini contained a certain quantity of mucous secre- tion, as also occurs more especially in the glandular cancer of the rectum. The salivary glands may also be the seat ot glandular cancer, but they do not come till old age; then, however, they grow rapidly, and not unfrequently resemble chronic inflammation. Hie newly-formed acini are often more tubular than acinous; epithelial pearls occur on the ends of the tubuli, covered Avith cylinder-cells. These patients usually succumb to the ulceration of the tumor and the general ma- rasmus ; internal carcinoma is a rare sequent. In the gland I have seen glandular cancer a fcAV times; it was very soft, and in one case Avhere partly extirpated it Avas A^ery vascular, and of acinous structure. From the excellent statistical