GENERAL REMARKS ON ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 522 tempts have been made to distinguish the changed condition of the vessels which permits the extensive escape of white blood-cells from inflammation. When studying chronic inflammation, we shall see that all of these factors can occur separately, and that it is only their combination which forms what we call inflammation, Virchow located the inflammatory disturbances chiefly in the tissue ; he was led to this partly by the microscopic changes just mentioned, partly from the observation that on irritation young cells appeared even in non-vascular tissues, like the cornea and car- tilage, just as they do in vascular tissues. These latter observa- tions, which were made at a time when the emigration of white blood-cells was not understood, can now be differently interpreted (Lecture VI.). We doubt now just as little as formerly that carti- lage-cells and some others, as certain endothelia of serous membranes [liindjieisch, JK:undrat),yo\ing epithelial cells {RemaJc, JBuhl, Rind- fleisch), etc., on being irritated in a certain way, will form new pro- toplasm and new cells in themselves, will divide up, and may thus lead to formation of new tissue. It is still doubtful whether all cells thus formed have independent movements, like pus-cells ; but very few observers now believe that developed connective tissue, corneal or bone corpuscles, acquire this peculiarity ; it is pretty gen- erally recognized that formation of pus does not result from local ])roliferation of fixed connective-tissue cells, according to VircJiow's theory. Many regard it as still undecided how much the wandering cells have to do with inflammatory new formations ; from my obser- vations I can hardly doubt that the tissue which causes healing by first intention, as well as granulation tissue, may proceed from wan- dering cells, although another mode is possible (by offshoots, direct outgrowth from the tissue. Lecture VI.). The transformation of wandering cells into connective tissue seems to me quite plausible, for, according to my investigations, they probably originated from connective-tissue cells, namely, from the stellate cells, filaments of lymphatic glands. Of late, attempts have been made to explain ichy the above-mentioned tissue-cells, such as cartilage-cells, after certain irritations, begin to enlarge, divide, and finally to produce new tis- sue, l)v the hypothesis that every protoplasm, supplied with proper nourishment, would grow and divide up if not hindered by the press- ure of the tissue in which it develops ; the partial escape of the nu- cleus, as from injury or increased distensibility of the tissue, the nutritive conditions being otherwise good, is said to be enough to start the remains of the cell into growth. This liypotliesis, which was advanced by Thiersch for another object, and which has been warmly taken up and generalized by bcmitiel.) seems very ingenious,