450 CUIIONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. osteophytes, which is often peculiar, depends on the arrangement of the vessels around which the young osseous material is deposited. We would not by any means assail the undoubted fact that the peri- osteum, and other parts adjacent to the bone, may also produce new bone, still I assert that, correctly viewed, osteoplastic periostitis is an osteoplastic ostitis superficialis. This subtle distinction has no prac- tical value, so far as we now know. Osteophytes are the product of an inflammatorg irritation of the periosteum and surfa/ie of the hone ; they are precisely what we call callus^ in fractures^ and they are formed in the same way. I here remark that periostitis, accom- panied 07ily by formation of osteophytes, without any suppuration, is especially peculiar to some forms of constitutional syphilis. The dolores osteocopi, which may be so torturing in the head and shin- bones, in tertiary sj'philis, are almost always due to osteoplastic periostitis and ostitis. According to my experience, almost every chronic periostitis is at first osteoplastic; all other terminations follow it more or less closely. The sup>puratwe form is also very frequent; it may run its course without the bone being much affected. Recall the symptoms already mentioned : oedematous swelling of the skin, pain on deep pressure, and a slight amount of it on moving the limb. This condition re- mains long the same, but is gradually followed by more swelling, by an immovable, doughy tumor, not perfectly but still tolerably well defined. By degvees the skin reddens, and the tumor fluctuates de- cidedly. Four to six months may thus pass, and then the tumor remains for a long time unchanged. The pain has probably increased, and the function is more disturbed. If the disease be left to itself, the cold abscess, which now evidently exists, will open, and a thin pus mixed with flocculi or cheesy substance will escape. If, through the fine opening, you pass a probe, it will enter a cavity lined with gran- ulations. If you do not wait for the spontaneous opening of the abscess, but make an incision through the thin skin, it is possible that no pus may escape, but that you will find the fluctuating tumor to consist of a gelatinous mass of red granulations ; in other cases there is some pus in the centre of the swelling; in stiU others the entire tumor is of pus. From what I have already told you of the anatom- ical conditions in chronic inflammation, you will readily understand these different states. If, in the periosteum, infiltrated nnth serum and plasm, you imagine a rich development of vessels, and at the same time an infiltration of wanderiqg cells, and transformation of the connective tissue to a gelatinous intercellular substance, the former is metamoiTihosed to a spongy mass of granulations. This may sooner or Uter change to pus, and an abscess is the final result. If the whole