205 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. I have intentionally represented all these modifications of the plaster-bandage as only exceptionally useful, all of tliem having cer- tain objections as compared with the method first described. A more careful criticism of these modifications here would lead us too far. For persons unskilled in the matter, the removal of the plaster- bandage is quite difficult, but you may see that any of my nurses will do it with astonishing quickness. It is simply done as follows: with a sharp, strong garden-knife we divide the plaster-bandage, not per- pendicularly but rather obliquely, as far as the under-bandage, then remove the bandage entire, like a shell; we may also employ the plaster-scissors proposed by Szymanoioski or those of Bruns. We use this capsule in some other cases as a prp-\dsioual dressing. Starch-Bandages.—Before plaster-bandages were known, we had in the starch-bandage an excellent material for the immovable dressing. The starch-bandage was perfected and introduced chiefly by the Belgi- an surgeon Seutin (f 1862); it is only during the last twelve years that it has given place to the plaster-dressing, but it is still used oc- casionally. The application of the wadding and under-bandage is the same as in the plaster-dressing, but then we apply splints, cut from moderately thick pasteboard and softened in water, to the limb, and fas- ten them on with bandages thoroughly soaked in starch-paste; we now apply wooden splints till the dressing has hardened, which at the ordi- nary temperature requires about twenty-four hours. Compared to the jflaster-dressing this has the disadvantage of hardening much more slowly ; we may improve this somewhat if we use gutta-percha splints instead of pasteboard, these may be softened in hot water, and adapted to the extremity. Gutta-percha bands, such as are used in factories, are very useful as splints. It cannot be denied that the introduction of gutta-percha into surgery is to be regarded as a great advantage ; but it is too costly to be used in practice for every simple fracture, althougli thick splints of this material harden even quicker than jflaster. The dressing with roller-bandages prepared with plas- ter is so cheap and firm tliat it will certainly not be displaced again by starch-bandages, now that it has been introduced into practice. Instead of plaster, solutions of dextrine, pure white of egg, or .simple mixture of flour and water, were formerly employed; they have all gone out of use, but it is well for you to know the usefulnes.s of these substances, which are in every house, and which we may well employ as provisional dressings. Biquid-glass Dressings.—Instead of starch, we may employ the liquid glass of the shops (silicate of potash). On applying the dress- ing, we paint this on the muslin-bandages with a large brush, after having made a substratum of wadding as above described. The liquid