POISONED WOUNDS. 393 after operations in otherwise healthy persons, psychical disturbances develop, cases which evade all attempts at explanation, and are only analogous to cases w'here, after acute diseases, such as pneumonia, acute rheumatism, or typhus, the development of true mania is ob- served. In the Berlin surgical clinic I saw two such cases, in both of w^hich, after total rhinoplasty, there was melancholy with religious hallucinations. Both patients were Catholic: one, a young man, in- cessantly worried himself trjdng to understand the idea of the Trinity; the other patient, a young woman, sought by prayers and castigations to atone for giving way to her vanity so far as to have a new nose made to replace the one lost by lupus. In the young man there were frequent outbursts of rage ; both patients perfectly recovered after a few -weeks. I have heard that Von Langenheck^ in Berlin, had an- other such case after a plastic operation, and Von Griife and Es- march have had them after operations on the eyes. But these cases are very rare. APPEJIDIX TO OHAPTEPv XIII. POISONED WOUNDS. We have still to treat of some varieties ot injuries, where at the time of the injury poison is inoculated, which sometimes induces severe local symptoms, sometimes dangerous general disease. It is well known that these poisons are peculiar to some animals, and in others they develop as a result of certain diseases, and are then trans- ferred by the diseased animal to man. The results from punctures of a large number of small insects are scarcely in proportion to the slight mechanical irritation caused by their stings; it may, it is true, depend partly on peculiar susceptibility of the skin, if persons have extensive temporary inflammations of the skin after bites by bugs, midges, or fleas, while others are not affected by them. A needle-puncture is a much greater injury than a flea-bite, but the latter is followed by itching and burning, and the formation of wheals on the skin, while the results of the former amount to nothing. Hence it is not improbable that in the case of the wound made by the insect some irritating substance enters the skin. As is known, the stings of bees and wasps excite even greater disturbances; occasionally there is an extensive, very painful inflammation of the skin, with great red- ness and swelling, which usually terminates in resolution, and docs not prove dangerous, but may be very annoying. A large number of such stings at the same time is not altogether free from danger; such