190 SIMPLE FRACTURES OF BONES. the injury; several clays pass before the pain and duration of the affection at last cause the patient to apply to a surgeon. In such cases, besides the symptoms of fracture already given, you find great oedema, and in some few cases inflammatory redness of the skin about the point of fracture; under such circumstances the examination may be very difficult; occasionally the swelling is so considerable that an exact diagnosis as to the course and variety of the fracture is out of the question. Hence the earlier we see a fracture the better. The subsequent external changes at the point of fracture may best be studied on bones that lie superficially, and which cannot be sur- rounded with a bandage, as on fracture of the clavicle. After seven to nine days, the inflammatory oedematous swelling of the skin has subsided, the extravasated blood has run through its discolorations and goes on to reabsorption, and a firm, immovable, hard tumor lies around the point of fracture; this is larger or smaller according to the dislocation of the fragments; it is, as it were, poured around the frag- ments, and in the course of eight days becomes as hard as cartilage; this is called callus. Pressure on it (the fragments can with difficult}’’ be felt through it) is painful, though less so than previously; subse- quently the callus becomes absolutely firm, the broken ends are no longer movable, the fracture may be regarded as healed; for the clav- icle this requires three weeks, in smaller bones a shorter, and in larger ones a much longer time. But this does not end the external changes; the callus does not remain as thick as it was; for months or years it grows thinner, and, if there was no dislocation of the fragments, after a time no trace of the fracture will remain; if there was a dis- location that could not be reduced by treatment, the ends of the bone unite obliquely and after absorption of the callus the bone remains crooked. To find out the changes that take place in the deeper j)arts, how the fractured ends unite, we try experiments on animals. We make artificial fractures on dogs or rabbits, apply a dressing, kill the ani- mals at various stages, and then examine the fracture ; we may thus obtain a perfect representation of the process. These experiments have been made innumerable times. The results have always been essentially the same; but, if we speak of rabbits alone, there are certain valuations Avhich, as proved by numerous experiments, depend on the amount of dislocation and of extravasation of blood. Hence, before showing you a series of such pre})arations, I must give you the result of these investigations, and exeiTq’)lify them by a few diagrams; then you will hereafter readily understand the slight modifications. We shall first confine ourselves to what wo can see with the naked eye and a lens. If you examine a rabbit’s leg three or four days after