V 568 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. improved, but rarely entirely cured, by stretching the cicatrix; a more potent remedy here is continued pressure, made by adhesive plaster, bandages, or compresses, applied to suit each case. The atrophy of the cicatrix, which occurs spontaneously, in the course of years is much promoted by this treatment. Distention is com- bined with compression in the treatment of ring-shaped cicatricial contractions of canals, so-called strictures, such as occur chiefly in the urethra and oesophagus, by the introduction of elastic sounds (called bougies because they were formerly made of wax) of gradu- ally-increasing thickness. The orthopedic treatment previously mentioned does not always succeed, or at least is often very slow, hence even in the middle ages the tendons of the contracted muscles or the muscles themselves were divided; this operation is called “ tenotomy,” or “ myotom}"; ” the former is far the more frequent. Formerly the operation was done by simply incising the skin down to the tendon, then dmding the latter, and letting the wound heal by suppuration; the results were not very brilliant: the suppuration was sometimes very extensive, thick cica- trices formed, which could only be slowly stretched. This operation was first made really serviceable by Stromeyer, who taught us to divide tendons subcutaneously, a method w’hich Dieffenbach intro- duced extensively into laractice, and which is now exclusively used. I shall first describe this operation briefly before passing to its results. Let us take, as an illustration, tenotomy of the tendo Achillis, which is the most frequent. For this operation you may best employ iJieffen- haclCs tenotome, a slightly-curved, pointed, narrow knife. The pa- tient lies on the belly, an assistant holds his leg firmly at the calf; with your left hand you seize the club-foot; with your right haiul introduce the knife, flatwise, by the side of the tendon under the skin, and over the tendon, till you have jjassed beyond the tendon, without, however, perforating the skin a second time; now turn the edge of the knife toward the tendon and divide the latter—when so doing you will hear a crackling sound; as the division is completed, you will feel with the left hand that the foot is more movable; you now care- fully draw out the knife. Only the point of entrance of the knife is visible externally, the tendon has been divided subcutaneously. Tliis method of subcutaneous tenotomy from xoithout imeard is easier for beginners, because in it there is no danger of dividing the skin more than is necessary. Tenotomy from xcithin outward is more elegant and better suited for some cases. The foot is held as above, and the knife is entered the same way, but it is then passed under the tendon and the cutting edge turned toward the tendon; the thumb of the