310 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE BONES, PERIOSTEUM, F/IC, flocculent pus mixed with the synovia, there may also be pure pus. The surface of the cartilage looks cloudy, and microscopically perhaps shows little change beyond turbidity of the hyaline substance; possi- bly the cartilage cavities are somewhat enlarged and filled with an un- usual number of cells. The tissue of the articular capsule is oedematous. Here you have a 'pimdent very acute synovitis^ in which the cartilage threatens to participate; should the disease continue, and the pus in the joint increase, you may correctly call it empyema of the joint. The difference between the first and second forms of acute syno- vitis is essentially that, in the second, the tissue of the synovial membrane is deeply affected, while in the first the increased secretion is the chief feature. Between these two forms are subacute cases, in which the secretion becomes purulent and collects in great quantity, without there being any great destruction of the synovial membrane. It. Vollcmann calls this “ catarrhal inflammation ” of the joint; it is somewhat more painful than ordinary acute hydroj^s, from which the catarrhal purulent form may proceed, though this is rarely the case. I have already said what was necessary about the course and treat- ment of acute hydrops. Tlie course and results of the more paren- chymatous synovitis, which is predisposed to suppuration, depend greatly on when the treatment is begun and what it is. Usually a few leeches are applied and then the joint is poulticed, from an idea of the old school, tliat rheumatic articular inflammations should be treated with warm apjjlications. I consider leeches almost useless in these affections ; perliaps there may be a question about keeping the limb warm, for this is often pleasant to the patient; it alleviates the pain in inflammations of the serous membranes, often more so than cold does ; at least the latter must act for some time before having a favor- able effect. I explain this as follows: The warm applications induce fluxion to the vessels of the skin, and thus empty those of the syno- vial membrane ; but this effect is not long continued; fluxion to tlie inflamed deeper parts returns again, and is stronger than to the artifi- cially-warmed skin. On application of a large bladder of ice to the joint, the vessels of the skin contract, and perhaps drive the blood to tlie vessels of the inflamed part more strongly than before, till gradu- ally the cold has its effect on these also, and if the cold continues the effect becomes permanent. It seems more rational always to use cold in these cases; in very acute inflammations of the joint the employ- ment of ice-bladders has also proved very practical. Besides using cold, you may also induce active derivation to the skin by strong tinc- ture of iodine, or by a large blister. But besides these remedies it is most important to bring the joint into a proper position and keep it there, for, if we do not obtain a perfect cure, and the joint remains