CURONIC INFLAMMATION OF TIIE JOINTS. 504 A. TIIE FUNGOUS AND SUPPURATIVE ARTICULAR INFLAMMATIONS. (TUMOR ALDUS). Tumor albus (white swelling) is an old name which was formerly applied to almost all swellings of the joints that ran their course with- out redness of the skin; now it has been agreed only to give this name to the affection we are about to describe, which is also, with more or less correctness, termed scrofulous inflammation of the joint; but of this later. The disease is very frequent in childhood, particularly in the hip and knee joints; it usually begins very insidiously, more rarely sul> acutely. If the knee-joint be affected, the parents usually first notice a slight dragging or limping of the lame leg ; the child, either volun- tarily or on questioning, complains of pain after walking some dis- tance, and on pressure over the joint; about the knee itself the laity can see nothing out of the way. On comparing both knees, the sur- geon will find, even quite early in the disease, that the two furrows which normally run alongside of the patella, when the limb is ex- tended, and give the knee-joint its shapeliness, have either disappeared on the affected side or at least are shallower than on the sound side ; except this there is nothing observable. The hinderance to walking is so sUght that children go about with a slight limp for months, and comjffain so little that it is some time before the parents feel obliged to consult a surgeon; they often delay doing this till, after continued exertion, the limb has begun to pain and swell more. The swelling, which was at first scarcely perceptible, is now quite evident; the knee-joint appears evenly round and quite sensitive to pressure. If we suppose that no treatment be instituted, but the disease left to itself, its course is about as follows: The patient continues to limp around for a few months, but finally the time comes when he cannot walk ; he is obliged to lie down most of the time, because the joint is so painful; gradually it becomes more and more angular, especially after each subacute exacerbation. Now, certain parts of the joint, at the inner or outer side, or in the hollow of the knee, become more painful; there is evident fluctuation at some one of these points; the skin grows red, and finally suppurates from within outward, and is perforated after a few months ; a thin pus, mixed with fibrinous cheesy flocculi, escapes. Now the pain decreases, the condition improves; but this improvement does not last long; a new abscess soon forms, and so it goes on. Meantime, perhaps two or three years have elapsed, the general health of the patient has suflered; the child, which was previously strong and healthy, is now pale and thin ; the opening of the abscesses is not unfrcquently accompanied or followed by fever; this fever exacerbates as each new abscess develops; this