SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OP THE SOFT PARTS. 1-28 long axis and various transverse axes of tlie limb, reaches other arteries, through which it soon again streams into the peripheral end of the ligat- eu \^essel. An arterial collateral circulation is established to the side of the ligated and thrombosed portion of the arterial trunk. Without this, the part of the body lying below this point would not receive sulli- cieut blood and would die; it would dry up or putrefy. Fortunately, arterial anastomoses are so free that, even after ligation of a large artery, like the axillary or femoral, such a case is not apt to occur; in diseased arteries, however, which do not distend sufficiently, mortifi- cation of the affected extremity may occur. The modes in wliich these new vascular connections form vary greatly. Years ago. Porta made very profound researches on this point, and from his numerous exjDeriments stated the following, as the types of collateral circula- tion : 1. Pirect collateral circulation is established; i. e., there are strongly-developed vessels, which pass from the central end of the artery directly to the peripheral end. These uniting vessels are 8'^- chiefly the dilated vasa vasorum, and the vessels of the thrombus; it might hajDpen that one of these uniting vessels should di- late so much as to acquire the appearance of being simply the trunk regenerated. 2. There is an indirect col- lateral circulation e.. the connecting branches of the next lateral arteries are greatly di- lated, as in the following case, Fig. 33. The most striking examples of both varieties of collateral circulation have here been cho- sen ; but when you examine the numerous sketches of Porta^ and yourselves repeat these ex- periments, you will find that in most cases direct and indirect collateral circulation are com- bined, so the only value of the classification is to group the different forms in some way. It is an excellent anatomi- Fomornl nrtorv of n large doc. iii^cted 3 mouth* oner llgnllon. Afior Porta.