47G CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE TERIOSTEDM, BONE, ETC. result, if done slowly and carefully, whether with the trocar or sul> cutaneously with the knife, with or without Lister's carbolic-acid treatment. If the opening is nicely closed and heals up, there is usu- ally no fever, but the abscess fills again very quickly ; an al)scess that probably took ten months to form, may fill again in ten days. This is also punctured; the opening again closes ; the patient grows fever- ish ; the pus again collects rapidly. A third, and perhaps a fourth or fifth, puncture is made, always in a new spot; the patient grows more feverish, the abscess is hotter and more painful; the patient looks languid and suffering. Now the points of puncture cease to heal, the previous ones open again, there is a continual escape of matter, and occasionally, in spite of all our care, air enters, especially when the walls of the abscess are rigid and do not collapse. Now there is a fistula, the fever is continued, and the subsequent course is most un- favorable, as we described it above. So far as my experience goes, the course is not much changed if the puncture be followed by injec- tion of iodine. There is not much difference if you make the opening with a seton, with drainage-tubes, or by cauterization. I have seen nothing from any of these methods that in the least approximated the claims of their proposers. It is true this unfortunate course may be run if you do nothing to the abscess but leave it to itself and await its opening; but then all progresses more mildly and slowN, and fever comes on later. Recov- eries take place under all these modes of treatment, but I think there are more recoveries, and certainly fewer deaths from pymmia, under the expectant treatment. I am satisfied that where recovery has fol- lowed injections of iodine, drainage, etc., it would also have occurred had the course of the disease not been interrupted; Ave cannot accept the assertion that a case would have run its course thus and so, if this and that had not been done. Summing up my own experiences, I can assure you that, of very many cases of large congestive abscesses along the spinal column, artificially opened, I know Amry few that ran a favorable course; the others were only hastened to their end. Hence I again repeat the previous assertion, that these abscesses, especially congestive abscesses from caries of the vertebras, are a noli me tangere. In such cases it is indeed frequently very difficult to Avait; in private practice, especially, the patients become impatient; the surgeon is urged to do something, it is cast up to him that he does not try any thing; the public firmly believes that, if the pus Avas only out, recoA'ery must folloAV. The surgeon also at length becomes Aveary; it is trying to look on from Aveek to Aveek as the abscess increases; all local and constitutional remedies are exhausted, and finally the surgeon departs from his principles and makes an opening; at first all goes