438 ULCERS. vision of the causes of ulcers is, as already stated, the same that we have previously studied in chronic inflammation. Let us at present leave out of consideration these etiological con- ditions, and seek first of all, by attending to the external ajipearances that an ulcer may offer, to give a more perfect representation. I will only add here tliat ulceration may not only occur in normal tissue but also in new growths in tumors proper; both excavated and superficial ulcers may form in and on them. In describing an ulcer, the following parts are distinguished: 1. Form and extent of the ulcer. It may be circular, crescentic, quite irregular, ring-shaped, superficial, deep; it may be a canal, lead- ing into the deeper parts, a tubular ulcer, a fistula; as I have already told you, these fistulas result from the formation of a point of inflam- mation in some deep parts, in a deep layer of the cutis, in the subcutaneous tissue, muscles, periosteum, or bones, or even in the glands, and gradually ulcerating through till it reaches the surface. Hence fistula is always preceded by the formation of an excavated ul- £er, of a more or less deeply-seated point of ulceration. 2. The base and secretion of the ulcer. The base may be shallow, deep, or projecting; it may be covered with dirty, badl3>--smelling serous, sanious fluid, or even with gangrenous tags of tissue (sanious ulcers); an amorphous, fatty, creamy, or smeary substance may cover it; it may also have luxuriant granulations with a muco-purulent secretion (fungous ulcers). 3. The edges of the ulcer are flat or elevated, wall-like, hard {callous ulcers), soft, tortuous {sinuous ulcers), zigzag, everted, under- mined, etc. 4. The vicinity of the ulcer may be normal or inflamed, oedema- tous, indurated, pigmented, etc. These universally employed technical terms suffice for the de- scription of an}' ulcer to a scientific person. But, as the terms ex- pressing the vitality of the process, as torpid, atonic, proliferating, fungous, etc., are briefer, they are more frequently employed ; desig- nations referring to the ultimate causes, especially of symptomatic ulcers, are also often used. Thus we speak of scrofulous, tuberculous, syphilitic, etc., ulcers. While we have the local conditions of ulcers fresh in our memory, we shall speak of local remedies, as far as their employment dejiends on the condition of the ulcer. A large number of ulcers, especially of those that have resulted from repeated local irritations, heal very readily. As soon as the diseased parts are under favorable external circumstances, and not subject to new irritation, cicatrization often begins snontaneously. It is remarkable how rapidly the common