ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 287 clean as possible. Strong granulations will soon appear here and tliere; 'finally, the last shreds are detached and a honeycombed granu- lating surface is left; this soon smooths otf, and subsequently cica- trizes in the usual manner, so that it only requires a little occasional stimulation from nitrate of silver, like other granulating surface. ^ In malignant carbuncle the local treatment is the same that we have just described. For the rapidly-occurring cerebral disease the only thing we can do is to apply ice to the head. Internally we usually give quinine, acids, and other antiseptic remedies. But I must acknowl- edge that the results of this treatment are very slight, for in my own experience I do not know a case where it has succeeded in averting death when septictemia was at all developed ; this is the more depress- ing, because these malignant carbuncles generally attack young, strong individuals. Even if the course be favorable as regards life, there will be considerable loss of skin and great disfigurement, especially in car- bunculous inflammation of the eyelids or lips, as they are mostly de- stroyed b}’’ gangrene. Early incision, excision, and burning out of the carbuncle, also have little effect on the further course of the dis- ease, as I have proved to myself in a few malignant cases. But do not be deterred, by these hopeless views of treatment, from making early incisions, for cases occur where carbuncles on the face run the usual course after commencing with high fever. French surgeons have attained some good results by early burning out the malignant pustule. 2. ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. Wliile traumatic inflammation of the mucous membranes presents nothing peculiar, “ acute catarrh ” or “ acute catarrhal inflammation ” of these membranes is a peculiar form of disease which is anatomically characterized by great hypermmia, oedematous swelling and free secre- tion of a fluid at first serous and subsequently muco-purulent, and is most frequently caused by catching cold or by infection. “ Blennorrhoea ” is an increase of catarrh to such a degree that quantities of pure pus are secreted. Catarrh and blennorrhoea may become chronic. Simple observation of exposed mucous membranes alfected with catarrh shows that it may be very severe and long continued, without the substance of the membrane suffering much; the surface of the mem- brane is hyperremic and swollen, somewhat thick and puffy; in rare cases there are superficial loss of epithelium and small defects of sub- stance (catan-hal ulcers), but it is only in very rare cases that these cause more extensive destruction. This observation is supported by post-mortem examination and histological investigation. The opinion now is, that there is only a rapid throwing olF of the epithecal cells