19 SYMPTOMS—PAIN. As all tljft tissues, not excepting tlie epithelial and epidermoid, are supplied with sensory nerves, injury at once causes pain. This pain varies greatly with the nerve-supply of the wounded part, and with the sensitiveness of the patient to pain. The most sensitive parts are the fingers, hps, tongue, nipples, external genitals, and about the anus. Doubtless, each of you knows from experience the character of the pain from a wound, as of the finger. The division of the skin is the most painful part; injury of the muscles and ten- dons is far less so; injury of the bone is always very painful, as you may find from any one that has recovered from a fracture; it has also been handed down to us from the times when amputations were made with- out chloroform, that sawing the bone was. the most painful part of the operation. The mucous membrane of the intestines, on being irri- tated in various ways, shows very Uttle sensitiveness, as has been occa- sionally observed on man and beast; the vaginal portion of the ute- rus also is almost insensitive to mechanical and chemical irritation; occasionally, it may be touched with the hot iron, as is done in treat- ing certain diseases of this part, without its being felt by the patient. It appears that the nerves requiring a specific irritation, as the nerves of special sense, are accompanied by few if any sensoiy fibres. The relation of the sensory nerves of touch to the sentient nerves in the skin cannot be regarded as decided, or whether there be any decided difference between them. In the nose and tongue, we have sensory and sentient nerves close together, so that in both parts, besides the specific sense peculiar to the organ, pain may also be per- ceived. The white substance of the brain, although containing many nerves, is without feeling’, as may be seen in many severe injuries of the head. The division of nerve-trunks is the severest of all inju- ries. Some of you may remember the pain from rupture of a dental nerve on extraction of a tooth. Severing of thick nerve-trunks must cause overpowering pains. Sensitiveness to pain appears peculiar to individuals. But you must not confound this Avith various exhibitions of pain, and with the psychical power of suppressing, or at least limiting, tlus exhibition; the latter depends on the strength of will, as well as on the temperament, of the individual. Vivacious persons display their pain, as well as their other feelings, more than phlegmatic persons. Most persons maintain that crying, as well as the instinctive powerful tension of all the muscles, especially of the masseters, gritting the teeth, etc., renders the pain more endurable. Personally, I have not been able to verify this statement, and I think it must be a mistake of the patients. Strong will in the patient may do much to suppress the show of pain. I well remember a Avoman in the Gottingen clinic, when I was a student, Avho, Avithout chloroform, had the Avhole upper