748 APPENDIX. soaked with ferruginous water, is warmed and used as the mud-baths above described. We do not know whether tlie mineral salts con- tained in the bath have any effect; they probably act only as large cataplasms. Compresses wet with thermal water of iodine-springs have also a good reputation as resorbents. Usually they soon induce cutaneous eruptions, and may also be considered as derivative reme- dies. Animcd-haths are also very popular; in these the diseased limb is placed among the intestines of an animal just killed, and kept tliere till the dead body is cold; a peculiar effect is claimed for the animal warmth, of which I have been UTiable to convince myself. Lastly, Ave must mention hot sand-baths^ which were formerly very popular; these probably have no advantage over moist warmth. 24.—P. 473. In these earlier stages massage may be carefully tried. You will accomplish but little by these therapeutic efforts; you will find that as long as adult patients can tramp around on their diseased bones, they will do so ; when you tell the patient that it is not certain the disease will g’et well if he lies quiet a few weeks, but that it will last months or years under careful treatment, he will attend to his busi- ness as long as possible. If the existence of your patient’s family depends on his dailj’' work, his case is very hard. It is just as hard to keep children constantly quiet; a groAvn person must watch them all day. This is impossible, not only among the poor, but in large families among those in moderate circumstances. It is very easy to say the child must lie still several months, except Avhen it is care- fully taken into the fresh air in a wagon or laid in a shady part of the garden during fine weather ; but if this has to be done for years, it is very expensive, for it requires the whole time of a careful adult nurse. This daily, hourly care for securing the best hygienic and dietetic conditions to a child with chronic disease, requires unusual patience and intelligence. Sacrifices are much more readil}'’ made for expensive medicines, or going to watering-places, to get the trouble over quickly. In such cases we must consider the circum- stances, so as to secure the best thing possible; Ave may order me- chanical supports to keep the weight of the body off the bones. I give you these hints, so that you may not be too much disappointed in your future practice. You will often see that many chronic dis- eases which are not incurable never are cured, on account of some social reason.