TREATMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE. 37 fore ligation was known, it was the most celebrated stj-ptic. The Arabian surgeons usually heated their amputating knives red hot, a proceeding that even Fabricius Ilildanus extolled, although he pre- ferred burning the bleeding arteries separately with fine-pointed cau- teries, in which he must have had an enviable expertness. Quite recently a similar method has been invented, namely, the use of platinum heated by the galvanic battery. This is the so-called galvano-caustic introduced into Germany by 3Iiddeldorpf, which may sometimes be employed with advantage. As you may readily under- stand, in practice we have not always at hand an iron properly shaped for arresting haemorrhage, such as you see in the surgical clinics. Fieffenhach, the most talented German operator of this century, who was at the same time a most original man, once, lacking other means, being alone in a poor dwelling, arrested a haemorrhage following the extirpation of a tumor from the back, by means of the tongs which he heated in the stove. A knitting-needle, stuck in a piece of wood or a cork, and heated at the lamp, may answer the purpose of the hot iron. A remedy which not only equals, but occasionally surpasses, the hot iron in its effects, is liquor ferri sesqitichlorati ; this forms with the blood such a leathery, adherent coagulum, that it acts excellently as a styptic. To apply it, you press a piece of charpie, moistened with it, firmly against the wound; after having washed off the blood with a sponge, hold it there from two to five minutes; you will thus be able to arrest quite free arterial hcemorrhage. If the first application does not succeed, try it a second or third time; this remedy will rarely fail you; but it makes a slough, behind which there is often sanious sup- puration mixed with gas-bubbles; hence we should not employ this styptic needlessly. The application of punh and blotting-paper to bleeding wounds is an old popular remedy; the punk sticks fast to the blood and the wound, if the bleeding be not excessive; in hasmorrhages at all free it is useless without simultaneous compression ; occasionally it is very efficacious, and is highly jiraised by some surgeons. Dry charpie pressed firmly on the wound has the same effect, according to my experience.^ Other haemostatics are oil of turpentine and aqua JBinelli^ in which the creosote is chiefly efficacious; concerning the former alone have I any experience, and I recommend it strongly; Avhen I studied in Gottingen, it was also specially recommended by my preceptor, liaum, and I used it once with such striking benefit in a doubtful case that I have a certain devotion for it. It is, however, an heroic remedy, not only because application of turpentine-oil to a Avound induces severe pain, but also because it excites severe inflammation in the wound and its vdeinity. I Avill relate the case Avhere I employed it.