319 CIRCULATION IN INFLAMED TISSUE. of serum in the tissue (oedema) that it cannot be carried off by the lymphatics ; sometimes there is free escape of red blood-corpuscles through the walls of the capillaries into the tissues (diapedesis).^ Cohnheim stated it as probable that the diapedesis resulted through openings in the capillary walls. Arnold not only confirmed this, but indicated the so-called stigmata (the small openings which be- come visible between the cells forming the capillaries, after staining wdth silver) as the point of escape, and also showed that blood-serum flowed out through these stigmata. If the hinderance to the circu- lation be of such a nature that blood can continue to flow, the only results will be oedema and diapedesis ; if the circulation be entirely arrested, gangrene results. Coming at last to hyperaemia as it occurs in inflammation, it is neither the immediate result of temporary inflammation, nor of paral- ysis of the vaso-motor nerves, nor of obstruction to the circulation, but of a peculiar alteration of the walls of the vessels, especially of the capillaries and veins. What chemical or physical changes occur at the same time in the walls of the vessels cannot be stated; but we conclude that the vessels in the inflamed part are permanently dilated, and permit the free escape of white blood-corpuscles (not only at the stigmata, but at any point in their walls), and that the substance of these vessels is softened and more yielding. Why this is so, certainly cannot be determined in all cases; it is considered as a direct effect of the cause of the inflammation, though it does not occur for some hours. The inflamed borders and areolm around • sharply-bordered cuts or stabs are just as difficult to explain as tlie primary fluxions. We must even involuntarily suppose that a dis- turbance can never be accurately confined to the part supplied by a certain vessel, but that it must spread somewhat, least so in cuts, stabs, or rapid burns, and most so after certain chemical actions. Still, this is no true explanation; it is merely a limitation of obser- vation. Let us now consider the blood and its circulation in inflamed tissue. Primary fluxion is accompanied by greatly increased ac- tivity of the movement of the blood, especially in the arteries, which again becomes normal as the primary dilatation of the vessels recedes. In the vessels which dilate permanently, in the borders and areola of the inflammation, the rapidity of the circulation grad- ually diminishes, especially in the veins ; the blood may move by impulses, or occasionally stop comi»letely. This stasis, which is not at once accompanied by coagulation of the blood, was formerly re- garded as a necessary part of true inflammation, and had many expla- nations, which hardly interest us now, as wo know that many inflam-