306 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE BONES, PERIOSTEUM, ETC. Many surgeons do not follow tills treatment, wliicli is backed by a series of favorable cases. Some recommend making large, deep in- cisions down to the bone at the very start, or at least as soon as suppuration begins. Such extensive wounds are bad in feverish pa- tients ; I am satisfied that, under these circumstances, this heroic treat- ment renders the condition worse, it increases the predisposition to pj'ffiinia. The idea that in acute osteomyelitis exarticulation should be made at once, as otherwise pyaemia is unavoidable, seems to me even more erroneous. This belief is certainly untrue, and under such circumstances amputation is not indicated, first, because at the onset the diagnosis of osteomyelitis is not absolutely certain, as the case might J30ssibly be one of simple acute periostitis; secondly, be- cause the prognosis in exarticulation of large limbs, if done for acute disease of the bone, is alwaj’^s very doubtful. In acute periostitis and osteomyelitis, of the tibia for instance, I should only amputate at the thigh if the suppuration were very excessive, and acute suppuration of the knee-joint should occur. Should the disease affect the femur and run an unfavorable course, I should scarcely hope to save the pa- tient by an operation so dangerous as amputation at the hip-joint. We may accomplish much by great care of the patients, who are gen- erally youthful. A young girl with osteomyelitis and periostitis of the tibia had sixteen chills in twelve days, and nevertheless recovered, although part of the tibia became necrosed, and the foot was anchy- losed. I will here add a few remarks about suppurative periostitis of the third phalanx of the finger, which is, perhaps, the jDlace where it most frecpiently occurs. As this inflammation in *the hand and fingers is usually called panaritium, this periostitis of the last phalanx is termed ’panaritium periostale. This, like any periostitis, is very painful; it is a long while—sometimes eight or ten days—before the pus per- forates outward. The termination in partial or total necrosis of the plialanx is common, and cannot be prevented even by an e.arly in- cision, although we often have to make one to relieve the disagree- able, throbbing, burning pain, partly by the loss of blood, partly by splitting the periosteum. As the termination in suppuration can scarcely ever be avoided, we try to induce it by cataplasms, hand- balhs, etc., and thus hasten the course. Tlius far we have only spoken of acute infiammation of the peri- osteum, and medulla of the long bones, but have not considered that of the sponrjy hones. Nor have we considered the question of in- fiammation of the bone-substance proper. Is there such a thing ? I think this must be answered in the negative, for I consider that dila-