530 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. Wlicn you make the punction, which I prefer to incision, you should choose a trocar of medium size, as the fibrinous bodies will not escape through a very fine one. You will often have trouble in evacuating them even through a large canula; then you will facilitate the opera- tion by injecting tepid water through the canula from time to time, so that the increased amount of fluid will aid the escape of the slippery fibrine-kernels. As alreadj' mentioned, the quantity evacuated is often | large. I once took one and a half tumblerfuls from a tendon-sac. After , all has been removed, fill a syringe with an ounce of a mi.\tur<; of j equal parts of water and tincture of iodine, or a corresponding quan- ^ tity of solution of iodine and iodide of potassium, and inject it slowly. j Let it remain in the sac one to two minutes, and then escape slowly. j Now remove the canula, cover the wound with a small compress, bind ‘ up the hand and forearm carefully, and ])ut it on a splint. The patient | should stay in bed several ,days. The operation is followed by a con- | siderable swelling, due to collection of fluid as a result of acute in- J flatnraation of the serous sac. If the tension become decided, we , j should remove the dressings, carefully close the puncture with plaster, then paint the swelling with strong tincture of iodine. In the more || favorable eases, the swelling will then gradually subside, become less * painful, and in the course of two to three weeks disappear entirel3^ In , many other cases, however, there will be some, even if very temporary, suppuration, which may be checked and subdued with ice. In the worst cases there may be extensive suppuration of the sheath with necrosis , of the tendon, and its results. Of course, opening the whole sac nat- j urally induces suppuration. ; On this occasion I must again repeat that there may be hernial protrusions from the capsule of the joint, just as from the sheaths of , the tendons, which may become dropsical without the dropsy extend- ing to the entire synovial membrane. Tlie fibres of the capsule sepa- rate, and the synovial membrane passes between them iTito the sub- cutaneous tissue in form of the finger of a glove. Although such formations of round, pedunculated, long, wreath-like, and other shapes may develop from any joint, they are chiefly met in the knee, hand, and elbow; in the latter I have often seen these isolated dropsies of hernias of the synovial sac communicating with the joint; they are accompanied b}’ slight stiffness of the joint. I urgently warn you against operation on these ganglia of , the joints; this operation may bo followed by suppuration of the joint. Cartilaginous bodies, enchondromata, sometimes even ossifying, occur in the tufts of the sheath of the tendons. Lipoma (A. arhoveS’