TREATMENT. 515 ions tlie disease; it is unnecessary for ns to waste words over this constitutional treatment, which will depend on the peculiarities of each case; you already know its outlines. The salient points for treatment are, the nutritive state of the patient, the quality of his blood, and the general hygienic and dietetic conditions under which he lives. It is your duty conscientiously to advise your patient to the best of your knowledge, but ycu will soon find that on these points you meet the greatest indifference, and that your advice will rarely be followed. The worst instances, such as hereditary predis- jDOsition, we shall not be .able to affect; for we can never expect tc choose the strongest persons out of healthy families for the propaga- tion of the species, and to forbid marriage to feeble persons from sickly families. Regarding the local treatment and its results, we may say, in general terms, tliat it is the more effective the more acute the stage; as a rule, it is not difficult to relieve subacute exacer- bations, or subacute commencements of the disease. In these cases we derive great benefit from the already oft-mentioned reme- dies : strong salve of nitrate of silver (3 j to 3 j of lard), paint- ing with tincture of iodine, flying blisters, wet compresses, gentle compression with adhesive plaster; this should be accompanied by absolute rest of the joint, which in the lower extremities can only be attained by continued confinement to bed.““ If the course of the disease is entirely chronic, and does not improve after a trial of rest, and the remedies above mentioned, I know of no better treatment than the maintenance of continv,ed moderate i7)'essure on the swollen limb by means of a firm bandage^ such as a plaster-splint^ which at the same time heeps the joint perfectly quiet in a sidtable position. With such a dressing we may permit the patient to go about, if it does not pain him; in so doing, he may use a cane or crutches, ac- cording to the weakness of the affected limb. Should the patient need baths at the same time, the bandage may be divided longitu- dinally, and be removed before the bath and replaced subsequently.” This treatment has the advantage that the patient uses the muscles of the extremity somewhat at least, and consequently they do not entirely atrophy; we are not to think that stiffness of the joint must necessarily result from wearing the plaster-splint for a leng-th of time; we not unfrcquently find the opposite, that is, that a limb which Avas very slightly movable before the application of the dressing is more BO afterward; this is because the swelling of the synovial membrane often subsides under the bandage. Before applying the plaster-dress- ing we may rub the limb with mercurial ointment, or apply mercurial plaster, or even rub in the nitrate-of-silver ointment. In all chronic cases of fungous inllummation of the joint, I cannot sulficiently recoin-