340 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. servations. Hospital gangrene does not attack chiefly large wounds, but rather insignificant injuries, such as leech-bites, cup-cuts, even the portions of skin denuded by a blister, while it never occurs on an uninjured part of the skin. The resemblance to diphtheritic inflam- mation of tlie mucous membranes is mentioned by some authors. But after seeing a wound infected from a diphtheritic mucous membrane, I am conduced that diphtheria and hospital gangrene are two differ- ent processes. A wound attacked by diphtheria is covered with thick fibi’inous rinds ; the entire wound becomes infiltrated and the surrounding parts intensel}'" erysipelatous; then a large part of the infiltrated tissue becomes necrosed and breaks down or falls off in shreds. But we do not see the daily progress of pulpous degenera- tion, forming round figures on the margins of the wound, which are puffy, very sensitive, and inclined to bleed, as is so common in hos- pital gangrene. It is well known that after diphtheria of mucous membranes paralysis is not uufrequent; but this has not been ob- served after hospital gangrene. In the latter disease there are at the same time constitutional symptoms : at first the fever is not gen- erally severe, but there is more or less gastric affection ; the tongue is coated, there is inclination to vomit, and general depression. The disease may prove dangerous to old or debilitated persons, es- pecially if it eats away small arteries and causes arterial hfemorrhage. The large arteries often resist hospital gangrene wonderfully, I once saw a man, for whom an inguinal abscess had been opened, at- tacked by the pulpous form of the disease; the skin of the groin to about the size of the hand was destroyed; the disease had ad- vanced so deep that about an inch and a half of the femoral artery lay exposed in the wound, and could be distinctly seen pulsating. I detailed a nurse to stav with the patient constantly, and to make instant compression if bleeding should occur, as it might at any mo- ment. The pulp was thrown off, the wound granulated rapidly, and after a long time complete recovery took place without ha?morihage. The erysipelatous redness accompanying diphtheritic phlegmon and hospital gangrene is occasionally as sharply bounded and desqua- mates as much as in erysipelas about wounds otherwise healthy ; but it has not the same tendency to spread. The constitutional septic poisoning is worse in diphtheria than in hosjiital gangrene. Views as to the causes of hospital gangrene vary ; this is chiefly because many living surgeons have had the good or bad fortune ne\cr to have seen the disease; thus in Zurich it has never been seen. In his maxims on military surgery Stronicyer states, as a young ph} sician in the Berlin Charitc', ho had oidy seen one case of hospital gangrene. Surrreons who have not seen this disease, or have only seen sporadic D