474 CHKONIC INFLAMMATION^ OF THE FERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. trGcitmGnt should aim at inducing rGsolution. For this purpose, power- ful antiphlogistic remedies are of little use. The application of leeches or cups, the internal administration of purgatives, the appli- cation of bladders of ice, seem to me only beneficial in acute exacer- bations of chronic inflammation; their action is always very tempo- and the employment of local bloodletting and purgatives may even prove injurious if often repeated. The repeated application of leeches and cups proves locally irritant, and may finally make the pa- tient anmmic, and a continuance of laxatives exhausts his strength; hence we should employ these remedies sparingly, reserving them for the acute exacerbations. Recently Esmarch has very urgently recom- mended the continued application of bladders of ice in chronic in- flammation. In cases accompanied by great pain, I have seen very good efiFect from this treatment; in other cases I see no true indica- tion for their use. Most frequently, at the very commencement of chronic inflamma- tion of the bone, the resorbent and milder derivative remedies are proper: officinal tincture of iodine, ointment of iodide of potash, mercurial ointment weakened by the addition of lard, mercurial plas- ter, ointments made with concentrated solution of nitrate of silver, hydropathic dressings and mild compression-bandages. With these remedies, and proper constitutional treatment, we make our first at- tack on the diseases in question, if they are just commencing, and occasionally we succeed in arresting them at an early stage. In the early stages of serous and moderately^plastic infiltration and slight vascular ectasia, the retrogressive changes either occur without leav- ing a trace of morbid change, or perhaps leave a moderate formation of osteophytes. In this stage, the treatment of syphilitic diseases of the bone by active antisyphilitic remedies is the most successful. If the process progresses, and the caries runs its course without suppuration, we may continue with the above remedies, and in suit- able cases, in otherwise vigorous persons, may combine Avith the above, derivatives to the skin, such as fontanelles, the hot-iron, etc. If the signs of suppuration begin, and abscesses form, you may con- tinue the absorbent remedies for a time, in the hope of even yet in- ducing reabsorption ; it is true, this will not succeed in most cases, but the question Avill soon arise : Shall we open the abscess, or Avait for it to open ? On this point I give you the folloAving general rule: If the abscess comes from a hone on which an ox>eration is impossible or undesirable (as the vertebrae, sacrum, pelvis, ribs, knee-joint, etc.), do not meddle vnth it, but be thankful for every day that it remains closed, and Avait quietly till it oiiens, for thus there A\-ill be relatively the least danger. When I haA^e departed from this principle, I haA'e