229 PSEUDARTHROSIS. pliorus in patients with pseudarthrosis, especially in the earlier stages; of course, we should be very careful of this remedy, which may be so dangerous when carelessly used. The local remedies all aim at inducing inflammation in the ends of the bone and parts around, because experience shows that most inflammations in the bone, especially subcutaneous traumatic ones, induce formation of bone in their immediate vicinity. The remedies employed vary very greatly. We have already mentioned the proposals to leave the limb without dressing, so as to avoid interfering with the formation of the external callus by pressure, also the rubbing together of the fragments, and painting with iodine; with the same view (viz., of irritating the fragments), we may apply blisters and the hot iron to the part of the limb corresponding to the fracture. By the following remedies we act more on the intermediate ligamentous tissue : long, thin acupuncture-needles are passed into the ligamentous band, and left there for a few days to excite irritation; we may Connect the ends of two of these needles with the poles of a galvanic battery, and pass an electrical current as an irritant. This proceeding is called eleo- tro-puncture ; it is little used. We may also pass a thin, small tape, or several threads of silk (a so-called seton or a strong ligature), through the ligamentous tissue, and leave it there till there is free suppuration around it. The following operations attack the bone more directly ; they are quite numerous : For instance, a narrow but strong knife is passed as deep as the fracture, and the ligamentous tissue is shaved first from the end of one fragment, then from the ether, without en- larging the skin-wound. This is called the subcutaneous bloody fresh- ening of the fragments. Or we may make an incision down to the bone, dissect out the two fragments, perforate them close to the fract- ured end, and pass a sufiiciently thick lead wire through the perfora- tions, twist the ends together, so as to approximate the fragments, or else, after making an incision, we may saw off a thin piece from each fragment, and treat the resulting wound like an open fracture; and to this operation, resection of the fragments, we may add the applieation of a suture of the bone. The following operation originates with Dief- fenbach: Corresponding to the ends of the fragments he makes two small incisions down to the bone, then he perforates the ends of the bone close to its borders, and with a hammer drives ivory pegs, of suitable thickness, into the perforations. The consequence is, a for- mation around tliese foreign bodies of new bone, which, when ex- tensive enough, as it may always be made in the course of time by repeating the operation, causes firm union. I will here mention that, when extracted in a few weeks, these ivory pegs look rough and