TENOTOMY. 571 wound suppurates a long time, and the skin is also affected, the brittle cicatrix probably may not become distensible for six or eight weeks, tor sooner it might tear and begin to suppurate again. Of course every club-foot, especially of the lower grades, does not require tenot- omy ; but it is just as certain that in high grades of this deformity tenotomy favors the cure. From what has been said, you will see that the indications for tenotomy are often the same as those for orthopedic treatment; this is not absolutely the case ; the indications for tenotomy are sometimes more limited, sometimes more general. We may divide any tense tendon subcutaneously ; but whether this will do any good is another question. We cannot here speak of all possible cases, but I will mention the tendons most frequently divided : in the neck, the two portions of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, at their insertions on the clavicle and sternum ; tenotomy is rarely done in the arm ; I warn you against this operation in the fingers and toes; all tendons loith fully-developed sheaths are unsuited for tenotomy ; from anatomical reasons, that you may readily perceive, healing would not occur so simply as in tendons surrounded by loose cellular tissue ; there is usually suppuration, frequentl}' with bad results, or else the ends of the tendon remain ununited. In tlie thigh, after coxitis, the contracted adductor muscle may be divided at its point of origin, if its contraction cannot be overcome during anaesthesia; the same is true of the biceps femoris, semitendinosus and semimembranosus, which are to be divided close to their points of insertion into the fibula and tibia. In the foot, the tendo Achillis is most frequently divided, as are also occasionally the tendons of the anterior and poste- rior tibial and peroneal muscles, although it seems to me that this injures the subsequent mobility of the foot. In straightening anchy- loses, tenotomy was formerly very often resorted to ; but for this pur- pose it may be entirely dispensed with. In anchylosis of the knee- joint, for instance, if the above-named muscles be not united to a cic- atrix, they may be gradua,lly stretched during anresthesia, that is, if they be still muscles and not strings of pure connective tissue, as is rarely the case. I shall not here speak of tenotomy of the ocular muscles, the operation of strabismus, as this is treated of in ophthal- mology. Sometimes, also, we may be obliged to divide tendons in antagonistic contractions, for the purpose of rendering the contracted muscles inactive for a time, and subsequently elongating their tendone> by extension, to give the paretic antagonist more play and less work ; the latter are then opposed by no force, or, at least, by a weaker one, so that equilibrium is restored. Of course, this is only to be done for muscles whose antagonists are not entirely paralyzed, but only paretic; in perfect paralysis, tenotomy of the contracted muscles