201 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. doubt by lYegner's excellent work on the osteoplastic action of pbos* phorus on growing bones. I will not conceal from you that the view which I have obstinately maintained, that the bone-cells in new osseous formations do not pro- liferate, but remain quite passive, is much disputed; since Gohn- heim has shown the passiveness of the stabile connective-tissue cor- puscles in inflammation, there does not seem so much strangeness about my view, which was advanced years ago, and was founded on numerous observations; still, the explanation of the preparations in question is not simjjle enough to permit only one view. Recently, by very careful investigations about the histological changes during the transformation of provisional into deflnitive callus, has tried to show that the bone-cells in the former take an active part in the formation of vascular canals in the latter by enlarging and changing position. I can agree with this entirely without abandoning the above views, for the provision-callus is like the young osteophytes of calcified connective tissue, like certain boundary-layers between car- tilage and bone. I have no doubt that the cells of this “ osteoid car- tilage” ( Virchow), like the cells of hyaline cartilage, proliferate to true bone. But this is not the place to enter more deeply into the histological details, which, great as is their intrinsic interest, have no essential influence on the definitive formation of the new development of bone. LECTURE XV. Treatment of Simple Fractures.—Reduction.—Time for applying the Dressing, its Choice.—Plaster of Paris and Starch Dressings, Splints, Permanent E.vtensiou.— Retaining the Limb in Position.—Indications for removing the Dressings "VVe shall pass at once to the treatment of simple ot subcutaneous fractm-es, especially fractures of the extremities, for these are by far the more frequent, and they particularly require treatment by dressings, while those of the head or trunk arc to be treated less by dressings than by appropriate position, as is taught in the lectures on special surgery and in the surgical clinic. The indications we have to consider are, simplj’- to remove any dislocations and to keep the fractured extremity in the correct ana- tomical position till the fracture is healed. First, the fragments arc to be replaced; sometimes this may