757 ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. 35. —P. 664. A, von 'Winiioater in a recent work has drawn a very sharp boun- dary between malignant, rapidly-growing lymphomata and primary medullary sarcomata in the lymphatic glands (lymphosarcomata). The former are said always to come in several lymphatic glands of a part (especially of the neck) at once, long continue movable, but finally unite into one mass; later other groups of lymphatic glands are attacked, and lastly internal organs. Two varieties may be dis- tinguished, one softer and grayish-red on section, the other firmer, fibrous, and more VA’hite on section; the latter runs the more rapid course; both forms of malignant lymphoma are always fatal. Lymphosarcomata are either I'ound-celled or spindle-celled; they come first in a gland; the surrounding tissue is gradually affected, so that the tumor soon becomes immovable; metastases to the lungs and spleen are common, I regard these distinctions as generally correct and grounded on careful observation, but believe that com- binations of the two forms are not rare, 36. —P. 674. By a choice of cases, the results of my thyroid operations have continuously improved. LilcJce, Stork, and Schioalbe praise paren- chymatous injections of tincture of iodine or alcohol; this is said to cause a considerable or even total shrinkage of the struma. In the first cases where I used these parenchymatous injections of tincture of iodine, they had no effect; one case where I injected alcohol proved fatal from suppuration of the goitre and septicaamia. Lately in some cases I have obtained considerable diminution of the goitre by persistent injection of iodine; twice a week I inject one gramme of pure tincture of iodine; this must be continued several months. Under this treatment some patients emaciated greatly, so that I would not recommend it in feeble or tuberculous patients. Since the above-mentioned unfortunate case I have not tried alcohol injec- tions. Stork also has informed me that alcohol injections sometimes excite considerable inflammatory reaction, while after injections of iodine there is merely a temporary swelling and pain; it is prudent at first to inject a third, then a half syringe full, to test the individ- ual susceptibility of the patient. 37. —P. 683. This view also finds supporters among the new school, who either do not recognize the typical formation of the tissue from the germ-