ANEURISMS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 587 We shall now investigate more carefully aneurisms of the extreme ities. At first, they cause slight muscular fatigue and weakness, more rarely pain in the affected limb; if there be inflammation about the sac, of course there are pain, redness of the sldn, oedema, and disturb- ance of function, which may go so far as to render the limb entirely useless if the aneurism continue to grow, and there be continued chronic or subacute inflammation around it. The formation of exten- sive coagulae in the aneurism of a large artery may be followed by gangrene of the whole limb below it. When speaking of gangrene, it was mentioned that it might result from atheroma of the artery, as so-called gangrena spon- tanea ; but there the case was somewhat different: the small arteries were diseased; these lose their power, from destruction of their strong muscular coat, and can no longer urge on the blood, as they cannot contract. But here there is obliteration of an arterial trunk by coag- ulm from an aneurism. I will relate to you a case observed in the Zurich surgical clinic. A man twenty-two years old, emaciated and miserable, was brought into the hospital; his right leg, nearly as high as the knee, was bluish black, the epidermis peeled off in shreds; gan- grene was unmistakable. Examination of the arteries showed a spin- dle-shaped, pulsating aneurism of the left [right ?] femoral artery, close below Poupart’s ligament; there was a second one, three inches below, on the same artery; this felt hard; there was a third one in the bend of the knee, just as hard, but, from the swelling of the surrounding parts, the form could not be exactly made out; between the second and third aneurisms the artery continued to pulsate the first day the pa- tient was in the hospital; the line of demarcation was not formed, it appeared likely to extend higher; gradually the pulsation ceased as high as Poupart’s ligament; the patient died about a fortnight after his admission to the hospital. The autopsy showed the aneurisms that had been recognized during life, and also extensive atheroma of almost all the arteries. Taking this with what I told you, when speak- ing of the ligation of large arteries, about the development of collateral circulation, you will think there is a contradiction. Why does not gangrene occur when you close an artery by a ligature, as well as when it is blocked by a clot ? The answer to this is, that a free collateral circulation sufficient for the nourishment of the peripheral parts only takes place when the arteries are healthy and capable of distention. But, when a coaguhmi passes from an aneurism into the artery, the neighboring arteries are usually diseased and not disten- sible, b(ung calcified, or already partly obstructed ; moreover, the closure of the arterj' is not, as in ligation, limited to a small space, but is very extensive, prjrhaps even, as in the case above mentioned, in-