53G CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. come up in very peculiar forms; in one place, atrophy, in another, ibrmation of bone, in the same case, alongside of each other in the same bone. The disease not unfrequently begins as nodular prolifera- tion of cartilage, and ends with atrophy of cartilage. I think you are already acquainted with this combination of atrophy and new forma- tion in chronic inflammatory processes; only call to mind caries, the type of ulcerative processes; there we also saw destruction going on at the ulcerated surface, and e.\tensive new formations around it. The above changes in the cartilage and bone are accompanied by some in the synovial membrane, which, however, do not differ much from those in chronic dropsy of the joint; this contains a slightly-in- creased amount of synovia, which is cloudy, tliin, and mixed with the ground-down particles of cartilage. The membrane itself is thick- ened, slightly vascular, the elongated tufts alone have more vascular loops in their apices. Parts about the joint may participate in the in- flammation—periosteum, tendons, and muscles. These occasionally ossify very slowly, so that the ends of the bones are often covered with bony masses; this bony proliferation is sometimes very extensive. The form of these osteophytes is very different from those wdth which we are already acquainted; they are flat and roundish, not shaped like pointed stalactites, but look like a fluid which had been poured out and stiffened while flowing; moreover, they are not so porous as other osteophytes, but all the layers are of more compact boii}' substance. From these peculiarities, which you will at once notice on seeing a series of preparations, the appearance of this variety of articular dis- ease is even exteriorly so characteristic that, on seeing a macerated preparation of the bones, you would at once recognize the disease without knowing any thing of the special case. In this disease the new formation of bone probably takes such a peculiar form, first, because the process of development is so slow; secondly, because here the ossification is not preceded by any special vascularity, as in osteophytes forming during the union of fractures in caries, necrosis, ostitis, etc.; if a tissue be very vascular when it ossifies, a porous bony substance must be formed, for the more vessels there are the more holes there will be in the bones. But in arthritis deformans the ossification is not preceded by any considerable new formation of vessels, the tissues ossify mostly just as they are; perios- teum, tendons, even the capsule, ligaments, and muscles, and all this goes on very slowly; this is why the bone formed is firmer. Sometimes also in the vicinity of the bone in the midst of the subserous cellular tissue detached points of bone form, which for a long time remain isolated round pieces; subsequently they may perhaps unite with the other bony masses; then they look as if glued on, and from the fonn