OBLIQUELY-UNITED FKACTURES. 231 2.—OBLIQUELY-UNITED FEACTUEES. Altliough, with the progress made in the treatment of fractures, it is now rare for union to occur in so oblique a direction as to render the limb entirely useless, still, cases from time to time arise where, in spite of the greatest care of the surgeon, in fractures with open wounds, dislocation cannot be avoided, or else, from carelessness or great restlessness of the patient and loose application of the dress- ings, a considerable obliquity in the position of the fracture remains. In many cases this is so slight that the patients do not care to get rid of the deformity; improvement of the position would only be desired in cases where, from considerable obliquity or shortening- of a foot or leg, the movements are decidedly impaired. There are vari- ous means by which we may greatly improve or entirely get rid of these deformities. If, during the process of union, we notice that the fragments are not exactly coapted, we may undertake the adjustment at any time in simple subcutaneous fractures. If, in an open fracture, obliquity of the fragments has taken place under the first dressing, I strongly urge you not to try to rectify it before the wound has healed; you would thus break up the deeper granulations, and the severest inflammation might again be excited. In fractures that have long suppurated, the callus long remains soft, so that you may always sul> sequently accomplish a gradual improvement in position by propei'ly padding the splints first in one place, then in another, or perhaps by continued extension with weights. If the fracture be fully consoli- dated in an oblique position, we have the following- remedies for its improvement: 1. Correction by bending the callus, by infraction ; for this pur- pose we ansesthetize the patient, and with the hands attempt to bend the limb at the point of fi-acture; if we succeed in so doing, we apply a firm dressing with the limb in the improved position. This method, so free from danger, can only be successful while the callus is still soft enough to be bent; hence it can only be done soon after the fracture. 2. Complete breaking up of the ossified callus. This also may sometimes be done by the hands alone, but frequently other mechan- ical means will have to be resorted to. For this purpose various ap- paratuses have been constructed, such as lever and screw machines of considerable power; one of the most terrible bears the name of “ dys- morphosteopalinklastes.” All these apparatuses should only be used with the greatest care, so as not to cause too much bruising and con- sequent necrosis of the skin at the point where the machine is applied on which the limb rests. For the not unfrequent obliquely-united fractures of the thigh, forced extension of A. Wagner (by the