742 APPENDIX. (as in falls on the great trochanter) result in long-continued ostitis, which is not often accompanied by suppuration, but by formation of osteophytes, sclerosis, and protracted impairment of function, which in old persons may prove permanent. 8. —P. 235. Some surgeons praise very highly rubbing and kneading of the extravasation of blood immediately after the injury; this is an old popular remedy, used even by the Grecian gymnasts ; nowit is called massage. Wonders are told of the efficacy of this treatment, espe- cially in regard to rapid reabsorption and restoration of function. The resolvent effect is particularly noticeable in the first four or six hours; later, when acute inflammation has already occurred, I would recommend it less ; but when this stage is past, it may be more energetically employed. Unfortunately, even after the most careful treatment of sprains, chronic inflammations occur, which are not only tedious on account of their duration, but, continuing through years, may lead to de- struction of the joint ; this is more apt to occur in children or feeble persons of scrofulous diathesis. We shall again refer to this when speaking of the etiology of chronic inflammations. 9. —P. 275. Recent investigations of Samuel show that after certain grades of freezing there is a true inflammation which goes on to regular gangrene. From clinical experience I knew that in such cases there is a process not found in burns ; for parts badly burned, even when not turned to cinder, shrivel up, and the blood coagulates in the vessels, so that other blood cannot enter them even if they continue to exist. If a frozen limb thaws for a time, arterial blood may again enter the vessels, and the question will be whether the walls of the vessels can still keep the blood fluid and the tissues use up the blood coming to them. If this be so, the frozen limb may regain its vital- ity; if it does not, gangrene occurs. In this transition stage the veins are much distended, and this may facilitate thrombosis in them. liergmann recommends particular attention in the treatment of this stage; he has had unusually good results from vertical suspension of the limb, which favors the return of the venous blood. 10.—P. 284. This limitation of the process to the skin and subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue is very characteristic of fibrinous (diphtheritic) inflamma-