1V5 TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. we see, where there is suppuration from a cavity, that the w’ater-bath is of no use, but is even injurious, and that an extremity should at once be removed from the water as soon as deep progressive inflam- mations extend out from the wound. By this we do not mean to ex- clude a half-hour’s bath of the part. Should there be no progressive inflammations, there would be no particular harm from leaving the wound in the water for two, three, or four weeks, only the healing would be much retarded. In the water the parts remain greatly swollen ; the granulations are full of Avater (artificially oedematous), pale, and cicatrization and contraction of the wound will not occur. If you then remove the extremity from the water, the wound soon contracts; in a few days the granulations look stronger, and the pus l^etter; healing progresses. Noav I must say something about the continued treatment by ice. Suppose you cover the contused wound from the first with a bladder of ice ? Here, also, you will find that the crushed parts are very sloAvly detached, and that no smell arises from the wound, unless large masses of tissue become gangrenous; to prevent the latter, if possi- ble, I apply charpie, or a thin compress Avet Avith chlorine-water, next to the Avound, and have it frequently rencAved. If Ave noAV continue the treatment four to six Aveeks, all the necessary changes in the wound will go on very slowly and sluggishly; the cicatrization and contraction of the Avound are also very slow under the influence of the ice, and hence this method is entirely out of place if we desire to hasten the process of healing. Most surgeons believe that Ave may prevent severe inflammations by applying bladders of ice to the re- cent Avounds; hence you will find ice applied at once to most cases of contused wounds. Occasionally this proves very grateful to the patient, by relieving his pain, but it does not seem to me a prophy- lactic antiphlogistic; for centuries, men have sought such a prophy- lactic, just as they have for one for inflammations of internal organs. By the application of ice to recent Avounds, Ave can neither prevent sanio-serous infiltration, nor suppurative inflammations, at least, this is my opinion. As already stated, many believe in the prophylactic action of ice, and are convinced that by this means only they can save persons badly injured. I have become satisfied that the dangerous complications to Avounds often occur in spite of the ice, and are not unfrcquently Avanting Avhen ice is not used, Avhen from the nature of the wound they might be expected. From Avhat has been said, you might almost suppose that I consider ice an inefficient remedy that may be dispensed Avith, still, you Avill see it much employed in my clinic ; in my opinion, cold is one of the best antiphlogistics, especially in inflammation of an external part Avhcrc it can act directly. Ilcnce,