652 TCMORS. Coming now to the symptoms of sarcoma perceptible to the naked eye, we must first state that in most cases these neoplasiaj have a roundish, sharply-bounded form, indeed, are usually distinctly encap- sulated ; this is a very imi)ortant distinguishing mark from infiltrated carcinoma. Sarcoma very rarely appears on surfaces (whether free or sac-like membranes) in a papillary or polypous form; still, there are non-glandular nasal and uterine polypi, also soft warts on the skin and mucous membrane, which, from their histological structure, can only be classed among the sarcomata. The consistence and color of sarcomata vary so much that nothing general can be said about them ; they may be as hard as cartilage, or of gelatinous, nearly fluid consistence. On incision, the tumor may appear bright red, white, yellowish, brown, gray, black, dark red, and diilerent shades of all these colors may appear on the same cut surface, apart from the pig- mentation ; this depends especially on their vascularity, and on more or less recent extravasations of blood in the tumor. The vascularity varies greatly; sometimes there is only a scanty net-work of vessels; again, the tumor is like a sponge, traversed by cavernous veins. We must here mention another peculiarity of sarcoma: it is occasionally so white that, if it be soft at the same time, it greatly resembles brain-matter. This medullary sarcoma (encephaloid) usually has all the malignant qualities of sarcoma in the highest grade, and is much feared; it may have any of the above-described histological charac- ters. Tumors which may be torn up into bundles in certain directions have been called sarcoma fasciculatum (formerly carcinoma fascicu- latum). The anatomical metamorphoses that take place in sarcoma are various: the different modes of softening predominate; mucous softening, even to the formation of mucous cysts, fatty and cheesy degenerations, are frequent. Ossification is very common in sarco- mata connected with bone, and may go on until the whole tumor is more or less completely transformed to bone. Cicatricial shrinkage scarcely ever occurs in sarcoma ; this is another important difference from carcinoma. Ulceration from within outward, opening out like a crater, is rare; sarcomata of the cutis ulcerate early, without, however, causing extensive destruction ; ulceration of hard sarcomata occasion- ally produces well-developed granulations. The diagnosis of sarcoma during life is made by attending to the following points: Sarcomata develop with peculiar frequency after precedent,local irritations, especially after injuries; cicatrices, also, are not unfrequently the seat of these tumors ; black sarcomata may come from irritated moles. Skin, muscles, nerves, bone, periosteum, and, more rarely, glands (among these the mamma most frequently), are the seats of tliose tumors. Sarcomata are rarest in children, rare