TUMOR ALDUS. 505 exhausts the patient; he loses his appetite, digestion is impaired, diarrhoea comes on, and the emaciation is increased from week to week. Even at this period the disease may spontaneously subside, although this rarely happens; more frequently it proves fatal, from the exhaustion caused by the suppuration and continued hectic fever. Should recovery take place, it is announced by decrease of the sup- puration, retraction of the fistulous openings, improvement of the general health, increased appetite, etc. ; finally, the fistulre heal, the joint remains angular or distorted in some way, the pain ceases, and the patient escapes with his life and a stiff leg; this termination of chronic suppuration of the joint in anchylosis (stiff-joint) is the most favorable that can occur when the disease has been severe ; the anchy- losis may be complete or imperfect, i. e., the joint may be perfectly stiff or slightly movable; the whole process may have lasted from two to four years.Ҩ Among the local symptoms I must add that, from long disuse of the limb, the muscles have become much atrophied from fatty degeneration and cicatricial contraction, the latter occurring especially in the vicinity of long-suppurating abscesses. The capsule of the joint also, which was much infiltrated and swollen, as well as the surrounding ligaments, is contracted, particularly on the side toward which the joint was bent; hence in the knee-joint this con- traction would be greatest toward the hollow of the knee. This short description may serve you for a general type of the disease in question, and of its importance; to enable you to under- stand the various forms in which it may appear, it seems advisable to first give you a clear description of the anatomical changes in these diseases of the joint. We have the opportunity of observing the dif- ferent stages of these changes in exsected joints, in amputated limbs, and on the dead body. I have paid so much attention to this subject, that from my individual observations I can give you a very accurate account of the anatomical changes. These are much alike in all cases, and, from what you already know about chronic inflammations of other parts, you will anticipate that there is in reality only a variation of the old story of serous and plastic infiltration with various grades of vas- cularization, of proliferation, and destruction, etc. Let us first with the naked eye study these joints in various stages of the disease. Let us suppose the common case of the affection be- ginning with chronic synovitis: we first find swelling and redness of the synovial membrane; it has already undergone some change in the lateral portions of the joint, in the folds, and neighboring s;vcs; its tufts are puffed up, very little elongated, but very soft and succulent; the whole membrane is more readily distinguished from the firm tissues of the capsule, and may be detached with greater facility than normal-