327 CAUSES OF GANGRENE. true that even in moist gangrene a superficial diyness of the skin may occasionally be obtained by removing the hard layer of the epidermis, which readily peels off from the decomposing limb; we may also greatly favor the drying by apiDlications of substances having a strong affinity for water, such as alcohol, solutions of corrosive sublimate, sidphuric acid, etc.; but we cannot obtain so complete a mummifica- tion as sometimes occurs spontaneously. Hence, dry gangrene is not a simple putrefaction, but a rather complicated process, which gradu- ally leads to arrest of the circulation. The immediate cause of death of individual parts of the body is always the complete cessation of the supply of nutriment consequent on arrest of circulation in the capillaries ; under some circumstances the cliief arteries or veins of an extremity may be locally obstructed, and, nevertheless, the blood finds its way by neighboring branches into their lower or upper parts. Hence, obstruction of an artery can only be the immediate cause of gangrene when collateral circulation is impossible. This may be due partly to anatomical conditions, partly to great rigidity of the walls of small arteries, partly to very exten- sive destruction of the walls of the artery, as when the femoral is obstructed from the bend of the leg to the foot, the nutrition only ceases when the capillary circulation is rendered impossible by these circumstances. But it is not always necessary that cessation of cir- culation in a small capillary district, or in the parts supplied by one small artery, should cause actual decomposition ; under such circum- stances the distui’bance of nutrition may assume a milder form, espe- cially when this limited disturbance of circulation comes on slowly and gradually. In this case there is molecular disintegration of tissue, which shrinks and dries to a yellow cheesy mass, in short, there is a series of metamorphoses which in the cadaver appear as dry, yellow infarctions ; this is essentially merely a sort of dry gangrene limited to a small spot. If this disturbance of nutrition and molecular disin- tegration of tissue take place on a surface, we call it ulceration y the whole series of so-called atonic ulcers, to which we shall hereafter return, are mostly due to such quantitative disturbances of nutrition. Hence, intimate as is the connection between the causes of dry gan- grene and ulceration, still, the vanous forms of gangrene are well marked and peculiar, as you will see from what follows, as there is generally not only molecular disintegration of tissue, but death of whole shreds of tissue, or even of an entire limb. Apriori, it is cer- tainly supposalfie that complete closure of all the veins returning olood from a limb, should induce complete stasis in the cajDillaries ; but in practice this is very unlikely to occur, for the veins are so very numerous, and in almost all parts of the body there are two ways for