144 CONTUSIOXS OF THE SOFT PARTS WITHOUT WOUXDS. vessel is very important for the fluidity of the blood within the vessel. We shall again return to this subject, under contused wounds. The counter-j^ressure of the soft parts prevents an excessive escape of bloodj for the muscles and skin exercise a natural compression ; hence, these subcutaneous hmmorrhages, even when from a large vessel of the extremities, are -very seldom instantly dangerous to life. Of course, it is different in haemorrhages into the cavities of the bodv; here there is little besides movable parts, that can offer no sufficient opposition to tlie escape of the blood ; hence, these haemorrhages are not infrequently fatal. Tliis rnay be in two ways; partly from the amount of blood escaping—into the thorax or abdomen, for instance— partly from the pressure of the blood on the parts in the cavity—on tlie brain, for instance—which are not only partly destroyed by the blood flowing from large vessels, but are compressed in various direc- tions, and their functions thus impaired. Hence, haemorrhages in the brain cause rapidly-occurring paralyses, and often, also, disturbance of the sensorium. In the brain we call this escape of blood, as -well as the symptoms induced by it, apoplexy (from utto and n?i,T]aau)^ to knock clown). If a large artery of an extremity be contused, the conditions' are the same as in a stitched or compressed punctured wound, A traumatic aneurism, a jjulsating tumor, forms, as described in the last lecture. But this is rare as compared with the numerous contusions occimring daily, and is so, doubtless, because the larger arteries lie quite deep, and the arterial coats are firm and elastic, so that they tear far less readily than the veins, although a short time since, in the clinic, we saw a subcutaneous rupture of the anterior tibial artery. A strong, muscular man had a fracture of the leg; the sldn was uninjured; the tibia was fractured about the middle, the fibula rather higher. The considerable tumor that at once formed at the seat of fracture pulsated visibly and perceptibly to the touch on the anterior surface of the log. There was very evident buzzing sound in it, which I was able to de inonstrate to the class. The foot was dressed witli splints and band ages ; we avoided the application of an immovable dressing, so tliat we might watch the further course of the traumatic aneurism that had evidently formed here. We renewed the dressing every three or four days, and could see the tumor gradually becoming smaller and pulsat- ing less strongly, till it finally disappeared, a fortnight after the injury. The aneurism had* been cured by the compression from the bandage. Nor was the recovery of the fracture interrupted; eight weeks alter the injury, the patient had full use of his limb. The most frequent subcutaneous hmmorrhages in contusions are from rujiture of the subcutaneous veins. These effusions of blood