727 METHOD OF AMPUTATION. muscles -would retract from the bone, and even the skin -would re- tract. After the stump, -where the bone projects like the point of a cone, granulates, the force of cicatricial contraction will draw the skin and muscles forward if the latter have not become so united with the bone or skin as to become immovable. As this circular amputation in one plane always leaves conical stumps, it is only done in the fingers or toes. Amputatio7i in two plcmes is also of limited use. Here the skin is divided and turned back, then the muscles and bone are divided in the same plane; this leaves the stump covered by the skin only. Where the bone is covered by many muscles, they will retract great- ly, carrying the skin back with them, so that the end of the bone will lie in about the same plane with the skin-flap; then, in healing, the skin becomes attached to the cone-like section of the muscles, and we have another conical stump. This method is only admissi- ble at points where the muscles will not naturally retract from the bones, or where they and their fasciae have become adherent to the bones and to each other from long-continued precedent disease. It may answer in amputations of the leg just above the malleoli or just below the head of the fibula, or at analogous points of the forearm; but the skin-flap must be made long enough to cover the stump readily. The circular amputation in tlwee planes first described, where skin, muscles, and bone are separately divided, may be done in vari- ous ways. For your first attempts on the cadaver, I advise your doing it as above described. Instead of the last incision through the deep layer of muscles, you may turn back the periosteum two centimetres from the level of the first incision through the muscles, and then saw the bone; the effect on the form of the stump remains the same, whether the deep part of the funnel is covered by perios- teum or muscles. This method may be done somewhat quicker and more elegantly if, instead of the three incisions in different planes, you divide the skin, and then have the assistant strongly retract the parts, while you divide the muscles by thin layers. Witli some practice you will learn to make the funnel just the depth you desire. But if your assistant retracts the soft parts too energetically, and you dividq only thin layers, by the time you get down to the bone you will have gone too high, and will have too much flap. If the assistant retracts too feebly, or if the soft parts are adherent to the bone and do not move freely, while you cut rapidly and deep, you get too little covering and have a conical stump. Lastly, the funnel has been made by cutting obliquely from with- out inward to the bone. But these methods are not practical, and I will give no further details.