FORMATION OF FIBRINE. 323 and I think it may prove the fruitful basis of future observations. But tissue-development is dependent on other important factors be- sides the conditions of nutrition and pressure, as on inherited pecu- liarities of the protoplasm ; and the above hypothesis does not suit all cases—for instance, the endogenous cell-development of the endo- thelium after inflammatory irritation of the peritoneum. It is not known whether there is a primary disturbance of nutri- tion in the tissues themselves, independent of the blood-vessels and their functions, that induces the specific inflammatoiy alteration in the vessels. The deposit of urates in the tissue of certain parts of the body in arthritis is usually regarded as of this nature; but the deposit requires participation of the vessels, and so they and the tissues are simultaneously affected. An experiment of Cohnheim shows that continued exclusion of blood from a blood-vessel may so affect its walls that when the blood again enters there will be a free emigration of white blood-cells. It was mentioned above that con- tinued stasis of the blood did not have this effect on the walls of the vessel where it was stagnated ; but from clinical grounds it is prob- able that the pressure of extensively and rapidly distended vessels on the parts around has something to do with their inflammation. It is very probable that, inflammations may be induced not only by chemical, physical, and mechanical causes, which act from with- out directly on certain parts of the body’ but also by primary disturb- ances of nutrition in the tissues and of the circulation, which develop in the body without perceptible cause. I must not forget to mention one symptom which formerly played a great role in inflammation, but is now hardly mentioned ; that is, the fOYTfiCition of JihvinB in some inflammations. This occurs chiefly, indeed almost exclusively, in inflammation of the connective tissue, and sometimes on the surface of serous sacs, of fresh and granulat- ing wounds, and of mucous membranes (of pharynx, larynx, and bronchi) 5 in other cases the nutrient fluid in the connective tissue assumes a fibrinous rigidity. It has been already mentioned that the formation of fibrine is not from an excess of fibrine in the blood, but from chemical alteration in the inflamed parts. Fibrine forms in the inflamed tissue, but is not a constant result of inflammation. The great difference of the other symptoms occurring with fibrinous inflammations is remarkable. While rapid formation of a moderate amount of fibrine favors healing by the first intention and partial adhesion of the surfaces of serous membranes, when often scarcely a trace of inflammation or fever is perceptible, in other cases, from some enigmatical cause, a very moderate fibrinous deposit in the tissues (as fibrinous deposit on the mucous membrane of the throat,