SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 102 surgeons soon abandoned it. Subsequently, when attempts were made by laying strips of oiled rag in the angle of the wound to give exit to the secretion, it rarely succeeded. In iny opinion Lis- ter deserves great credit for having shown that numerous di-ainage- tubes, properly placed in the wound and cut off even with the sur- face, will completely carry olf all secretion, even if an accurately- fitting compressive dressing of bibulous material be applied over the united wound; if, by directly covering the wound with gutta-percha or oiled silk, we prevent the drainage-tubes from being stuck up by dried secretion, such a dressing has the advantage of an open dress- ing, by allowing free escape of secretion, as well as that of a com- pressing dressing, by which union of large wounded surfaces is so greatly favored. To jDrevent the escaping secretion from decom- posing in the dressing and affecting the wound, the dressing should be frequently changed at first. In this care about dressings, as well as in cleanliness about operations, it seems to me, lies the great ad- vantage of Lister'^s method. But Lister started on the construction of his complicated dressing from different ideas ; he thought, just as I have repeatedly asserted, that the severe inflammations about wounds and the constitutional implications are almost always due to decomposition in the wound. I think that decomposition of dying tissue and exudation from the wound (for us a decomposition of albuminous substances with formation of pyrogenous and phlogoge- nous matters) is a chemical process that must, under certain circum- stances, always occur in these substances without the addition of new agents ; while Lister agrees with Pasteur'’s view that decompo- sition only occurs under the influence of small vegetable organisms, just as he claims that fermentation is only developed by yeast fun- gus. In regard to this question of living or dead ferments, I must refer you to organic chemistry. In physiology you have learned about salivary, pancreatic, and gastric ferments, which, although produced by cell-activity, no longer act as living organisms, but in a purely chemical way. In the same way, I think a substance may be formed as the last action of a dying tissue, that shall have some of the peculiarities of a ferment, and at the same time have a phlogo- gcnous action, and perhaps be very poisonous for the circulating blood. It does not seem to me to have been proved that the addi- tion of small organisms (vibriones or bacteria of Pasteur) is abso- lutely necessary to the formation of such substances. It is true, they are generally found in such fluids ; but this may be explained by the fact that these small organisms occur everywhere in air and water, and develop particularly in decomposing fluids. As wo shall often have occasion to speak of these small organ-