1T6 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. ice is proper Avnere there is inflammation, especially if accompanied by great fluxion, with a tendency to suppuration of the wound. If inflammation of the cellular tissue, the sheaths of tendons or muscles, or of a neighboring joint begin, you should apply ice to the inflamed part, and thus avoid the excessive hyperajmia, and so the increase ot the inflammation. You think I am here contradicting myself, when I say that ice is of no use in preventing the development of inflamma- tion about a wound, but it is of use in lessening the commencing inflam- mation and preventing its spread. But let me explain this by an ex- ample, and you will readily see the difi’erence. When any one suffers from headache, he certainly would not think of being bled for every attack, to prevent inflammation of the brain; but, if the latter be really developing’, venesection may be a very efficacious remedy to arrest its further development and spread. By the aid of ice, we do not always succeed in arresting the suppuration extending from the wound, but occasionally the oedematous skin grows redder, becomes painful, and, when you press on it, a thin, serous, or sometimes quite consistent pus occasionally flows slowly from some of the angles of the wound. Under such circumstances, the retained pus,' especially if bad smelling and ichorous, must be set free, and allowed to flow unobstructedly; for this purpose, deep incisions should be made in the soft parts, and then kept open. When this should be done, and how it may best be done in individual cases, you will have to learn in the clinic. For probing such suppurating cavities, I prefer a slightly-curved silver catheter, which I pass through the wound to the end of the canal, then press the end up against the skin and here make the in- cision. For enlarging these so-called counter-openings^ just as in other wounds, you use a toleralily long probe-pointed knife, straight or curved (Pott's knife). As a rule, the counter-opening should not exceed an inch in length; if necessary, we may make several of this length; in such cases there is usually no use in dividing the soft parts of the forearm or leg longitudinally, as was formerly taught. To prevent these new openings from closing again too soon, which, however, rarely happens, you may introduce several silk threads through the pus canals, tie the ends together, and leave them for a time. In place of these setons of silk or linen threads, caoutchouc tubes, -witli numerous lateral openings, have recently been used; they have received the name of drainage-tubes, an expression taken from agricultural technology; sometimes, at least, these tubes facilitate the escape of pus very well, but their princiifle is not new, nor can we accomjflish such wonders with them as is claimed by Ghassaignac, their inventor, who has written a book in two thick volumes about them. In making these counter-openings, you will not imfrequently strike on dead shreds of tendon or fascia, which should then be removed.