INTRODUCTION 2 W'hen blood spouts forcibly from a wound, or a foreign body has entered the windpipe, and the patient is threatened with suffocation, Ihen surgical aid is required, and quickly too, or the patient dies. In other cases, also, the physician ignorant of surgery may do much harm by not recognizing the importance of a case ; he may allow a disease to become incurable, and by his deficient knowledge cause unspeakable injury, in a case wdiich might have been relieved by early surgical ti-eatment. Hence it is inexcusable for a physician obstinately to stick to the idea of only practising internal medicine; still more inex- cusable is it, in this idea, to neglect the study of surgery : “ I will not operate, because in ordinary practice there is so little operating to be done, and I am not at all suited for an operator ! ” As if surgery con- sisted only in operations. I hope to give you a better idea of this branch of medicine than is conveyed by the above remark, which un- fortunately is too popular. From the fact that surgery has to deal chiefly with patent dis- eases, it certainly has an easier position in regard to anatomical diag- nosis ; but do not regard this advantage too highly. Besides the fact that surgical diseases also often lie deeply hidden, more is demanded from a surgical diagnosis and prognosis, and even in the treatment, than from the therapeutic action of internal medicine. I do not deny that in many respects internal medicine may hold a higher rank, just on account of the difficulties it has (and often so brilUantly overcomes) in localizing and recognizing disease. Very fine operation of the mind is often necessary to come to a proper conclusion, from the combination of symptoms, and the results of the examination. Physicians may point \Adth pride to the anatomical diagnosis of diseases of the heart and lungs, where the careful student succeeds in giving as accurate a de- scription of the changes in the diseased organ as if he had it right under his eyes. How wonderfid it is to gain an accurate knowledge of the morbid state of hidden organs, such as the kidneys, liver, spleen, intestines, brain, and spinal marrow, by the examination of a patient and the combination of symptoms ! What a triumph to diag- nose diseases of organs of which we do not know even the physiolo- gical function, as of the supra-renal capsules ! This is some compensa- tion for the fact that, in internal medicine, we must more frequently acknowledge the impotence of our treatment than is the case in surgery, although, from the advances in anatomical diagnosis, we have become more certain of what we can do, and of what we cannot. The irritation of the finer, cultivated portions of the mind in inter- nal medicine is, however, richly balanced by the greater certainty and clearness of diagnosis and treatment in surgery, so that the two branches of medical science are exactly on a par. And it must nor