CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 40G examine the pus from such an abscess microscopically, you Avill find it rich in fine molecules, but rather poor in well-developed pus-cells. This is because the pus has long been enclosed in the body, and is changed by disintegration of the pus-cells to molecules, and by chem- ical decomposition; by the latter rich excretions of fat, especially of cholesterine crystals, are formed. The appearance of the pus to the naked eye is also changed by these metamorphoses, for it is usually thinner and clearer than in the acute disease, and has a disagreeable odor like fatty acids, and may contain fibrinous flocculi and shreds of necrosed tissue. Sometimes it is months or years before the suppu- ration of the walls of a cold abscess has gone so far as to cause per- foration of the skin. In some cases it even happened that such an abscess has existed for years, that the ulceration of its walls fiually stops, and the latter are transformed to a cicatricial capsule, and the pus is thus completely encapsulated. If we have opportunity to examine such an abscess, we find in it an emulsion-like fluid, occasionally con- taing crystalline fat, and sometimes without a trace of pus-cells, so that, from the appearances, we could hardly infer that the sac in question had been an abscess, if the whole previous course did not show it. Much more rarely, in the course of time, when the abscess has ceased to grow, there is reabsorption of the fluid, a cheesy pulp being left. If the abscess has perforated outwardly, the pus is evacu- ated, and, under otherwise favorable circumstances, there may be healing, as we shall soon describe. But, for this to occur, the ulcera- tion on the inner wall of the abscess must cease, which generally only occurs when there is a sufficient development of vessels in the walls of the abscess ; under their influence the inner surface of the abscess changes to a vigorous granulation-tissue, and then it condenses and atrophies to cicatricial tissue, and the opjjosite walls of the cavity unite, as in the healing of acute or hot abscesses; the pus escaping from the opened cavity grows less, and finally ceases altogether. Some time subsequently we may still feel the subcutaneous cicatrix of the abscess as a callous thickening; but, in the course of time, this also passes off, and the abscess-cicatrix again assumes the characteris- tics of ordinaiy connective tissue. I will now make you acquainted with a technical name used for those abscesses which do not originate at the points where first seen, but which have moved partly from sinking of the pus, partly from the ulceration having progressed chiefly in one direction. For instance, there may be supj)uration along the anterior part of the spinal column, which, following (he loose cellular connective tissue behind the peritoufeum, and travelling along the sheath of the psoas muscle, finally appears as an abscess beneath Poupart’s ligament. These and similar abscesses are called Gouges'