PY.EMIA. 383 the infection of the whole body comes from the wound, whether the poison finds circumstances favorable to its development in the wound and surrounding- parts, or whether it be introduced into the wound already developed. I am not shaken in this view even by those rare cases where there is no visible change, or only very little, in the wound on commencing pyaemia, for possibly the infecting body has very little if any phlogogenous action, and hence may enter the blood through the wound, and have a pyrogenous action, without causing any change in the wound at its entrance. Sex seems to have very little influence on the frequency of infectious diseases of this class; possibly tempera- ment, the energy and frequency of the contractions of the heart and arteries, may have more influence on the reabsorption of the delete- rious substances. Judging from general impressions, children seem less disposed to pymmia than adults. It would be exceedingly diffi- cult to make statistics on this point, as so few severe injuries occur in women and children as compared with men ; consequently, the fact that so many more men die of traumatic-infection fever of course proves nothing about the predisposition of either class to this disease. Open wounds of bone particularly dispose to pyaemia ; judging from rnv experience, those wounded in the lower extremity are most, those wounded in the trunk are least, in danger of becoming pyEemic. The time of year and the collection of severely wounded in hospitals seem to have little if any direct influence on the development of py- aemia, unless by causing greater accumulation of infecting matter in the dressings, etc., thus increasing opportunity for infection. Lastly, I must mention the so-called spontaneous pymmia. Cases occur where multiple abscesses (of the subcutaneous tissue, for in- stance), or even venous thrombi with embolic metastatic abscesses, ap- pear without our being able certainly to detect any primary point of suppuration; these cases, especially if they run an acute course, are called spontaneous pyaemia. There is no reason for raising a new theory for these rare cases, where we simply fail to detect the primary point of inflammation; I doubt not that there will hereafter be less mention of these cases, which, according to old theories, were very enigmatical, as we are constantly learning to observe more accurately, and, on more careful examination, shall usually find the connection o;’ the symptoms. From the intimate relation, which we suppose to exist, between traumatic fever, septicaemia, and pyaemia, it seems correct to speak of the treatment of these diseases under the same head. This may be divided into prophylaxis, and the treatment of the developed dis- ease. The former is l)y far the most important; it consists in avoid