405 COURSE OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. When the thickening of the skin assumes a nodular form, it is usually termed elephantiasis in the most general sense of the term. Such hypertrophies and hyperplasias of the connective tissue, which may form in the course of a chronic inflammation, hardly ever recede en- tirely, but often remain in the same state, even when their causes have been removed. 2. If you imagine the chronic inflammation, so far as you at present know it, transferred to a mucous or serous membrane, you will acknowledge that the secretion cannot remain normal during the pathological changes which aftect the tissue of these membranes. Usually it increases, there is hypersecretion ; chronic inflammation of a synovial or mucous membrane may evince itself chiefly by this hypersecretion. Chronic catarrh of the mucous membranes may affect chiefly the epithelial or the connective-tissue layer or the glands of the mem- brane ; in many cases all three sulfer to an equal extent. The same is the case in the synovial membrane of the joints; some forms of chronic articular inflammation are chiefly noticeable from a very free secretion of a watery synovia; in others, there is more thickening of the syno- vial membrane, and but little increase of secretion. 3. Chronic inflammation may also be accompanied by suppuration, and its finer changes are just as in the acute disease, except that every thing is slower. For instance, suppose there is at some jaart of the body a collection of wandering cells with a formation of fluid intercellular substance; at the sanie time, of course, the tissue in which these cells are infiltrated dies, as always happens in circum- scribed cell-proliferations. The tissue surrounding the spot first dis- eased is gradually infiltrated with cells; and it also goes on to form fluid cellular tissue with the character of pus; the infiltrated tissue is the more disposed to suppurate and break down when its vessels are little developed and do not supply sufficient qualitative and quantitative nutrient material to maintain the further development of the exces- sive cells. In abscess, a circumscribed cavity containing pus is thus formed, its walls are constantly being changed to pus, sup>purating. All this takes place very gradually, and frequently the symptoms usually appearing in inflammation are wanting; often there is no pain, redness, or elevation of temperature, in the affected part, and usually there is no fever. Hence this variety of abscess, which comes on chronically, is called cold abscess / for this chronic suppuration we use the term ulceration (“ verschwiirung ”). We might also term the whole cavity containing pus a hollow ulcer (“ liohlgeschwur ”) ; but in common language this expression is applied chiefly to small cavities, while larger, slowly-forming ones are called cold abscesses. If you