350 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. the simplest, which I usually employ, is to smear the surface with oil and appl}’’ wadding; the patients are generally satisfied with this. Others sprinkle the inflamed skin with flour or powder, or scatter finely-rubbed camphor in the wadding that is to be applied, thinking thus to act specially on the local jrrocess. If vesicles form, they should be opened with fine needle-punctures, and the loosened epidermis be left to dry. If gangrene develop anywhere, moist warmth in the form of fomentations or poultices should be applied till the eschar has detached and healthy suppuration begun, which is then favored by dressings of charpie dipped in chlorine-water. If, after erysipelas, abscesses form in the subcutaneous tissue, they should be opened early and treated like any suppurating wound. Among the internal remedies, we have one which may perhaps arrest the develojDment of some cases of the disease. If in strong, otherwise healthy persons, in whom the gastric symptoms are very prominent, we give an emetic, the advance of the erysipelas is often checked. This is not absolutely reliable, but you may try it in suit- able cases. Subsequently 3’ou employ onlj’’ the ordinary cooling reme- dies. If symptoms of debility show themselves and the disease drag on, you should begin with tonics and stimulants; you ma^" daily give a few grains of camphor or quinine, or some wine. The inflammations of internal organs occasionally ccmjDlicating erysipelas are to be treated lege artis, and in meningitis you must not be afraid to keep a bladder of ice constant!}' on the head, even if the scalp is afiected by the erysipelatous inflammation. 4. Inflammation of the lymx>hatie vessels {lymphangitis), actual inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, occasionally occurs in the ex- tremities under various circumstances, which will be mentioned im- mediately. The symptoms, in the ann for instance, are as follows: There is a wound of the hand ; the whole arm becomes painful, espe- cially on motion; the axillary glands swell and are sensitive, even on the slightest touch. If Ave inspect the arm carefully, Ave find red stria?, especially on the flexor side, running longitudinally from the wound tOAvard the glands ; these reddened portions of skin are very sensi- tiA'e. At the same time there is fever, often a coated tongue, nausea, loss of appetite, and general depression. The termination may be in one of tAvo directions: under proper care and treatment, there is gcn- crall}' resolution of the inflammation ; the stria? gradually disappear, as do also the sAvclling and pain of the axillar}’’ glands; the fever ceases at the same time. In other cases there is suppuration; the skin of the arm reddens graduall_y and e.xtcnsiA'ely in a few days and becomes oedematous. The SAvelling of the axillary glands increases, the feAmr becomes greater, and llieie may eA'cn be chills. In a fcAv