INTRODUCTION. 8 conferring academical honors. Philosophy was the science to which most attention was paid, and for a long time Medicine preserved her philosophical robe in the universities; in some cases they adhered to Galen’s system, in others to the Arabian or to new medico-philo- sophical systems, and registered all their observations under these heads. This was the great obstacle to the progress of the natural sciences, a mental slavery, from which even men of intellect could not free themselves. The anatomy of Mondino de Jjuzzi (1314) differs very little from that of Galen, in spite of the fact that the author bases it on dissections he made of some human bodies. In surgery there were no actual advances ; Lanfranchi (fl300), Guido of Cauli- ' aco (beginning of the fourteenth century), (middle of the fifteenth century), are a few of the noteworthy surgeons of those times. Before passing to the flourisliing state of the natural sciences and of medicine in the sixteenth century, we must review briefly the composi- tion of the medical profession in the times of which we have been speaking, as this is important for the history. First, there were philo- sophically educated physicians either lay or monk, who had learned medicine in the universities or other schools; i. e., they had studied the old writings on anatomy, surgery, and special medicine; they prac- tised, but paid little attention to surgery. Another seat of learning was in the cloisters ; the Benedictines especially paid a great deal of attention to medicine and also practised surgery, although the supe- riors disliked to see this, and occasionally special dispensation had tc be obtained for an operation. The regular practising physicians were sometimes located, sometimes travelling. The former were usually educated at scientific schools and received permission to practise on certain conditions. In 1229, the emperor Frederick II. pubhshed a law that these physicians should study logic (that is, philosophy and philology) three years, then medicine and surgery five years, and then practise for some time under an older jihysician; before receiving permission to practise independently, or, as an examiner lately said, of physicians who had just received their degree, “ till they were let loose on the public.” Besides these located physicians, of whom a great part wei’e “ doctor ” or “ magister,” there were many “ travelling doctors,” a sort of “ travelling student ” who went through the market- towns in a Avagon with a merry Andrew, and practised solely for money. This genus of the so-called charlatans, Avhich played an im portant part in the poetry of the middle ages, and is still gleefully greeted on the stage by the public, carried on a rascally trade in the middle ages ; they were as infamous as pipers, jugglers, or hangmen ; even now these travelling scholars arc not all dead; although, in the nineteenth century, they do not ply their trade in the market-place, but