446 ULCERS are only useful in lupus syphiliticus. Arsenic, which is highly prized in other chronic skin-diseases, is of little use in lupus. In Switzer- land the disease was rare. My experience of it was chiefly derived in the Berlin clinic, and, if I were to state my belief regarding the effi- j cacy of internal treatment, it would be to the effect that the lupous | dyscrasia, like the scrofulous, often disappears spontaneously in the ' course of time, but is also often incurable. 3. Saorhutic ulcers. , Scorbutus, or scurvy, is a disease which, as al- ready stated, when fully developed, manifests itself by great weakness of the capillary vessels. There are extravasations of blood at many places in the skin and muscles; the gums swell, become bluish red, and ulcers, which bleed readily, form on them; there are also intes- tinal hemorrhages, general emaciation and debility, and many patients die in a miserable state. This severe form of scorbutus occurs chiefly endemically on the coasts of the Baltic, and in sailors on long voy- ages. In the latter case the disease is usually referred to continued use of salt meat. Inland there is a sort of acute scorbutus, comprising morbus maculosus, purpura, etc. Scorbutus localized on the gums and oral mucous membrane is everywhere common among children; the gums swell, become of a dark bluish red, bleed on the least touch, and ulcers, covered with a yellow, smeary coating of pus, fungi, and shreds of tissue, form on them. When the disease appears in this form, and is treated earljr, it is generally readily cured. You should paint the gums twice daily with a mixture of half a drachm to one drachm of muriatic acid and an ounce of honey; internally administer mineral acids in dose and form suited to the age, and order a light, easily-digested diet. If this treatment be conscientiously followed, the disease soon disappears. General endemic scorbutus is difficult to cure, because it is generally impossible to withdraw the patients from the injurious endemic influences. In this also the acid treatment is greatly recommended. 4. Syphilitic ulcers. The marks that are usually given, as particu- larly characteristic of syphilitic ulcers, refer almost exclusively to the primary chancre, especially the soft chancre. This begins as a ves- icle or pustule, develops to an ulcer as large as a pea, with red bor- ders and a yellow, fatty-looking base. The ulcer of the indurated ; chancre looks differently; in this there is first a nodule in the mem- , brane of the glans or prepuce. This nodule ulcerates from tlie sur- face, as other cutaneous ulcers do. It usually assumes an atonic, toqud character, frequently with a marked tendency to breaking do^vn ^ of the tissue. Broad condylomata, one of the milder evidences of constitutional syphilis, are, strictly speaking, nothing but small, su* » perficial, very circumscribed fungous cutaneous ulcers, which occur t