5 INTRODUCTION. and workers of miracles. The physicians took scholars to train in the art of healing; and, according to some remarks of Xenophon, there were also special army physicians; especially in the Persian wars, they, together with the soothsayers and flute-players, had their places near the royal tent. It may be readily understood that, at a time when so much was thought of corporeal beauty, as was the case among the Greeks, external injuries would claim special attention. Hence, among physicians of the Hippocratic era, fractures and sprains were particiflarly studied; still, some severe operations are treated of, as also numbers of instruments and other apparatuses. They seem to have been very backward regarding amputations; probably the Greeks preferred dying to prolonging life after they were mutilated The limb was only removed when it was actually dead, gangrenous. The teachings of Hippocrates could not at first be carried any fur- ther, for lack of knowledge of anatomy and physiology. It is true there was a faint effort made in this direction in the scientific schools of Alexandria, which flourished for some centuries under the Ptole- mies, and by means of which, after the wars of Alexander the Great, the Grecian spirit was spread, at least temporarily, over part of the Orient; but the Alexandrian physicians soon lost themselves in phil- osophical systems, and only advanced the science of healing a little by a few anatomical discoveries. In this school the art of healing was at first divided into three separate parts—dietetics, internal medi- cine, and surgery. Along with Grecian culture, their knowledge of medicine was also brought to Rome. The first Roman physicians were Grecian slaves; the freedmen among them were allowed to erect baths; here, first, barbers and bathers became our rivals and col- leagues, and for a long time they injured the respectability of the pro- fession in Rome. Gradually the philosophically-minded took posses- sion of the writings of Hippocrates and the Alexandrians, and them- selves practised medicine, without, however, adding to it much that was new, Tlie great lack of original scientific production is shoAvn in the encyclopedia! revision of the most varied scientific works. The most celebrated v/ork of this nature is the “ De Artibus ” of Aldus Corne- lius Celnis (from 25-30 b. c. to 45-50 a, d., in the time of the Em- perors Tiberius and Claudius). Eight books of this, “ Medicina'' have come down to our time; from these we know the state of medi- cine and surgery at that time. Valuable as are these relics from the Roman ages, they are only, as we have said, a compendium, such as is often published at the present day. It has even been denied that Celsus was a practising physician, but this is improbable; from his writings we must, at all events, credit (7e^s^<swith using his own judg- ment. The seventh and eighth books, which treat on surg-ery, could not