493 SEQUESTROTOMY. must be certain mechanical conditions which are rarely fulfilled ; small sequestra are often thrown off spontaneously; large ones, which can- not pass the existing openings, must be removed artificially. The treatment of necrosis at first consists simply in keeping the fistulas clean. Chemical solution of the sequestrum is not to be thought of. If you were daily to pour muriatic acid into the fistulous opening, it would affect the newly-formed osseous tissue as much as, or more than, it would the sequestrum, which would be very unfortu- nate, as it must replace the latter. Hence the mechanical removal of the sequestrum is the only thing left; this should not he attempted before complete detachment. This is a very important rule: first, be- cause the dead bone can rarely be sawed out without removing a good deal of the healthy and of the newly-formed bone, both of which are bad; and, secondly, because the new bone is rarely firm enough before the sequestrum is detached. Here, again, we meet a wonderful pro- vision of Nature: the sequestrum is not generally detached till the new formation of bone is strong enough to replace the lost portion of bone. This beneficent provision should not be brought to naught by meddlesome interference. There are only a few special exceptions to the above rule, especially in necrosis from phosphorus, which is not a pure necrosis, but is often combined with caries; but of this we shall treat more particularly in special surgery and in the clinic. I have already told you that we may sometimes tell by the probe whether a sequestrum is detached ; but this is not always so ; it may be so shut in by granulations that it cannot be felt to move. It is always hard to decide on the mobility of a large sequestrum ; and the curved shape of the bone (as of the lower jaw) may greatly interfere with the decision. In such doubtful cases the duration of the pro- cess, and the thickness of the bony case, are important aids in deter- mining whether the sequestrum be detached or not. Most sequestra are usually detached in eight or ten months; in a year even an entire necrotic diaphysis usually lies as a loose sequestrum in the newly-formed bony case. These are approximate determinations, which may of course have exceptions. If the formation of bone be still weak, and nevertheless the sequestrum be already detached, it is well to postpone the extraction in the humerus, tibia, and femur, so that the formation of bone may be firmer, provided the general health does not suffer. Should albuminuria begin, the extraction should be hastened. Extraction of the sequestrum, especially when it requires prelimi- nary enlargement of the cloaca (fistulm leading into the bony case), is called the operation for necrosis or sequestrotomy. This oiicration 33