600 TUMORS. we have spoken, or in future speak, of indifferent cells, you must al- ways limit the expression by the principles above developed. If we now return to the system of new formation developed by Virchow, according- to our view there is no such thing as a true heteroplasia, for the germ-cells formed from the derivatives of one germ-layer can only develop differently within certain bounds ; they can never be- come one of the types of tissue belonging to another germ-layer. From the great movements constantly being made in histogeny, any very absolute assertion is in danger of being obliged soon to submit to some modification ; still I must repeat that it seems to me in the highest degree probable that a large part of the young cells escaping so extensively into the tissues during the develop- ment of tumors are movable, wandering, connective-tissue cells, that is, escaped white blood-cells. Nevertheless, I Avould not deny to the stable elements all participation in the new tissue formation. For instance, it has been proved of muscular filaments that their cells proliferate after irritation, bv division of the nuclei, although this may not occur for some time (in rabbits about the end of the first week) ; the same is true of the nerves; the cartilage-cells also react on irritation, although not for some time. It is uncertain whence the wandering cells come (they are identical with white blood-cells and lymph-cells); probably their original source is from stable elements of the lymphatic glands and spleen ; at all events, they must be regarded as elements of the middle germ-layer, and hence their powers of development must be regarded as limited to the tissues of this layer. Our times may look with pride at the pro- gress of modern morphology, whose importance is proved by the very fact that it is so destructive to previous views and so fruitful ill the most diverse directions. When some investigators on this point assert that the conditions of embryonal development just given have no claim to pass as im- mutable laws of nature, but only serve as rules for the development of the more highly-organized animals, I must leave the embryologists to maintain the argument. But I would entirely deny the assertion that types of development which are recognized in embryology have no analogy in neoplasms which result from various irritations of de- veloped tissue ; for all modern histogeny is based on the principle that development of pathological neoplasia is oidg a repetition of typical development of normal tissue, which has been generally ac- cepted since Johannes Muller's pioneer work on tumors. If we lost this principle, we should lose all our hold on this domain and fall back into the old chaos of parasites and pseudojjlasms. Lot us now return to tumors. Their life and growth may vary