653 SARCOMATA. between ten and twenty years, most frequent in middle life, and rarer again in old age. According to my observation, men and women are affected with equal frequency. If these tumors be not located in or on nerve-trunks, they are usually 23ainless till they break out. If the sarcoma be in the subcutaneous cellular tissue or in the breast, it may be felt as an encapsulated movable tumor. The growth is some- times rapid, sometimes slow; the consistence varies, so that it can scarcely be used as a point in diagnosis. Course and prognosis. A sarcoma may develop solitarily, may remain so, and never return after operation. It may develop as soli- tary or multiple, and return after repeated extirpation; metastatic tumors may form in the lungs or liver, and thus this disease may cause death in three months. You see that the greatest benignity and greatest malignity may be united in this one gTOup of neoplasia ; in- deed, I can assure you that two sarcomata of the most similar histo- logical qualities (usually, however, with different consistence) may differ entirely in course. From this circumstance the greatest objec- tions have been made to pathological histology; it must be acknowl- edged that the histological structure of a tumor by no means corre- sponds to its clinical course; but for this reason to cast a slur on anatomy would be just as strange as to blame it because we cannot certainly distinguish between the microscopic preparations of a sali- vary, lachrymal, or mucous gland, although they play very different parts in the organism. We must first overcome the habit of seeking- specific anatomical forms for specific functions. But there is no lack of indications for prognosis in regard to anj' sarcoma. We shall hereafter speak of the importance in this respect of the location of the tumor; the consistence is important, firm sarcomata are of better- prognosis than soft ones; alveolar forms are of especially bad prognosis, and still more so are the soft granulation and spindle-celled sarcomata, vvhich usuallj'- appear in the medullary form ; black sarcomata are also especially dangerous, the firm ones being less rapid in their course than the soft. The rapidity of the growth first appearing is very impor- tant for the prognosis; this is, moreover, in proportion to the consist- ence ; if a sarcoma has taken four or five years to attain the size of a hen’s egg, the prognosis is not so bad; if in four or five weeks it has grown to the size of a fist, it is very bad. A sarcoma may be mis- taken for a cold abscess ; I know of one case where a sarcoma of the abdominal walls developed so rapidly that at first it was diagnosed to be furuncle. In a few months the patient was covered with sarco- mata, and, in less than three months from the development of the first tumor, she died from the disease attacking the lungs. Sometimes, however, a slowly-growing, firm sarcoma is followed by one of rapid