704- TUMORS. the larger contain hard white or grayish-white nodules, and are occ^^ sionally softened, caseous, and have a granular cut surface. On the whole, the lymphatic glands show the same characters as primary can- cers; this also extends to the microscopic texture. Although it could probably only be proved in pigmented carcinoma that the first swell- ing of the lymphatic glands depends on transformation of tumor-cells into the lymphatic glands, still I consider the same thing true of all carcinomata; in some cases the ejsithelial nature of the new forma- tion in the lymphatic glands is just as striking as in the primary tumor of the breast, iu others such a distinction is impossible. Carcinomatous nodules of the pleura, which develop after car- cinoma of the breast from direct conduction of the seeds, are usually hard, pure white, and small-celled; the same is true of the external appearances of secondary cancer of the lungs and liver; but the latter are not unfrequently large-celled and acinous. Although I regard it as probable that these carcinomata are also due to direct emigration of carcinoma-cells or to transportation of the latter by the lymphatic or blood vessels, this cannot be proved. Some cases deviate from the above course, as is shown by early and continued shrinking of the new formation. This form is called scirrhus mammee^ atrophying, cicatrizing, shrinking carcinoma, con- nective-tissue cancer. The picture of the disease and the anatomical changes will appear from what follows. In the mammary gland, rarely before the fiftieth year, there forms a hard sjDot—we cannot say a swelling—but the hardening is rather accompanied by a j)artial or even a total decrease in size of the gland; this hardening usually forms without, rarely with seA^ere pain ; it comes on very slowly. If we now sujopose the hardened glands removed and examine the diseased portion, we find the tissue so hard tliat Ave can scarcely cut it; to the naked eye, the cut surface shoAvs a hard, fibrous cicatrix, Avith connective-tissue striae gradually extending into tlie comparativ'ely healthy parts around. In typical cases, except this cicatrix, Ave shall scarcely discover any thing pathological Avith tlie naked eye; but, at the j^eriphery of some of tliese tumors Ave see a pale-reddish part Avith a fatty lustre, more marked in spots, lying be- tween tlie cicatrix and the healthy tissue, and passing into both. If Ave examine fine sections of the cicatricial tissue after jireviousl}' liardening it still more in alcohol, Ave find little besides connectiA'c tissue and elastic filaments; but the connecliAC-tissuc strife haA*e not the same peculiar regular course thatthe\' ha\’C in fibroma ; they are irregularly intertwined, and, as above slated, they arc accompaTiicd