480 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE FERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. may result either from an acute process, or accompany the process of ulceration as “ caries necrotica.” As in death of an}"- part, cessation of circulation is also the im- mediate cause of necrosis, while cessation of nervous activity does not induce it, although a disturbance of nutrition, an atrophy of the bone, is occasionally seen in paralyzed parts. Necrosis may be due to various causes; we shall briefly group them together: 1. Traumatic influences. Among these are severe concussions and injury of the bones, even without external wounds. The course is as follows: As a result of the above injuries there are extravasations in the medulla of the bone, also into the spongy bones, perhaps also in the compact bony substance, and occasionally under the periosteum. If these ruptures of the vessels be so extensive that their results cannot be removed by collateral circulation, which is of dilflcult es- tablishment in bone, part of the bone will no longer contain any blood; this will die, and, according to circumstances, we may have central, superficial, or total necrosis (the latter occurs most readily in the small bones). The portion of dead bone remains in the organism as a foreign body, but still continues in continuity with the healthy bone; the solution of the sequestrum, by liquefaction of the bone- substance in the border of the living tissue, has been already ex- plained (page 220). Another mode of injury is exposure of the sur- face of the bone, or sawing through a bone, by which the sawed sur- face becomes the surface of the bone; in complicated fractures a piece of bone may be so denuded of soft parts, and thus robbed of its circulation, that it becomes necrosed. We have also explained why the exposed bone or sawed surface does not always become ne- crosed, but that the bone may, like the soft parts, immediately pro- duce granulations. Nevertheless, after the above injuries, superficial or partial necrosis is common enough, either because extensive clots form in the ends of the injured vessels of the bone, or because the vessels are compressed and suppurate on account of the acute suppu- ration in the Haversian canals. 2. Acute periostitis., ostitis, and osteomyelitis, are very frequent causes of occasionally extensive and especially of total necrosis of the hollow bones. In suppuration of the periosteum the supply ol blood to the bone, by vessels passing tlirough the periosteum, is cut off, and the suppuration is propagated through the Haversian canals to the medullary cavity ; if the latter also suppurates, necrosis is in- evitable, and will extend as far as the inflammation did. The same results will occur in primary acute ostitis and osteoin3'elitis -witli sec- ondary periostitis. 3. Chronic ostitis and periostitis may combine with necrosis, for,