RACHITIS. 499 milk, eggs, meat, and good white bread, and should take strengthen- ing baths of malt, herbs, etc. Internall}' we should prescribe cod- liver oil, iron, and similar strengthening and tonic remedies. We might think of giving preparations of lime, but they are so indigest- ible, and are so quickly excreted by the urine, that they do no good : they have almost been thrown aside; it is possible, also, that rachitis is essentially a disease of digestion, in which the preparations of lime are, from some unknown cause, not absorbed. It is rather a one- sided view to suppose that in rachitis or osteomalacia lack of supply of lime is the cause of absence of deposit of chalky salts in the bones, of the disappearance of that which has been deposited. It is also possible that lime entering the stomach, from faulty digestion, does not reach the blood, or that it is excessively excreted by the kidneys, or perhaps the newly-formed bony tissue does not take up the chalky salts brought to it in normal or even in excessive amounts. It is true, these points furnish no direct indications for treatment, but I mention them so that you may see that we are not physiologi- cally justified in referring the disturbed nutrition solely to deficient supply. Frequently the parents ask for splints to remove the curva- tures, or, at least, prevent their increase; they will also ask you whether the children should be urged to walk, or permitted to lie still. On this point it is best to let children have their own w^ay: if they do not wish to go, do not urge it; if they lie still more than they run about, they' should be kept in the open air as much as possible; taking children from a damp city dwelling to the country often suffices for the cure of rachitis. Splint boots and similar ap- paratuses, that load the feet, should only be applied in cases of ex- cessive curvature, where the position of the feet mechanically inter- feres with walking; this state of affairs is rare, hence the indication for .such orthopedic apparatus is limited. When the rachitis has disappeared, such amount of curvature may' remain in rare cases as to require some treatment; in the great ma- jority of cases this is unnecessary, since, as already stated, the cur- vatures spontaneously disappear with the growth of the skeletoir. Only in the leg curvatures sometimes remain, so that the foot is dis- torted, and only its inner or outer border can be placed on the floor ; if this remains for years at the same point, an attempt should be made at straightenirig. This may be done in two ways. We anres- thetize the child, and carefully fracture the bone subcutaneously ; have the log held sti-aight, apply a plaster-bandage, and treat the injury as a simple fracture ; recovery usually takes place readily. In some cases, however, after the rachitis has run ils course, the bone is so very firm that this breaking does not succeed. Then sub-