318 GENERAL REMARKS ON ACUTE INFLAMMATION. I will begin by saying that from our ignorance of the participa- tion of nerves in inflammation, we must leave them out of the ques- tion. Vessels, blood, and tissue form almost exclusively the objects of our study. Dilatation of the blood-vessels is an important factor in inflam- mation ; still, neither the hypersemia from hinderance to the current of blood in the veins (congestive hyperoemia) or dilatation of the arteries from paralysis of their walls (as in the rabbit’s ear after division of the cervical sympathetic), nor the sudden primary dilata- tion from mechanical and chemical irritations, necessarily leads to inflammation. About the latter form of vascular dilatation I have something to add to what has already been said. It is about the following syinptom : You rub the eye, and it becomes red; jmu rub the skin, and it becomes red, as it also does if you apply warm wa- ter ; you put snow on the skin, and it becomes white, then red. All of these reddenings soon pass off if their causes only acted a short time and were soon removed. The investigations mentioned in T.ec- tnre V. referred to the mode of origin of .these hjqieraemias, but they are now considered unsatisfactory. The symptom itself is completely estimated by Cohnheim ^ still, even under the action of heat, cold, and chemical influences, if we suppose a direct momentary paralysis of the vascular walls, from what we have thus far seen, it appears strange that a paralyzing influence should extend from a circum- scribed i^ressure or tear to an extensive portion of surrounding vas- cular territory, with a sort of wave-like motion. It seems to me we know no more about this “ affluxus ” to the “ stimulus ” than we for- merly did. But it is important, as Cohnheim has shown that where inflammations occur after physical or chemical influences, these pri- mary fluxions may have passed over long before the new' hyiDeroBinia which leads to and continues with the inflammation ; and the ]:ri- mary fluxions may entirely fail, but a I'egular inflammation with its hyperremia nevertheless occurs. Hence the fluxion immediately foi- low'ing the irritation is not an absolutely necessary factor of the inflammation. A rabbit’s ear whose vessels have been paralyzed and dilated by section of the sympathetic does not inflame; its tissue becomes more tense from oedema, but nothing more ; there is no further disturb- ance of nutrition in the vessels and tissues. E.xtonsive congestion, however, is more serious. It has already been stated in Lecture V. that slight increase of intravascular press- ure, such as occurs after moderate injuries, quickly passes over and lias no effect on the inflammation. But if the congestion be very extensive and cannot be equalized, there is so copious an exudation