I CARCINOMATA. V03 prognosis much worse. In some cases there is no isolated tumor of the breast, but the whole gland, Avith the skin, becomes diseased at the same time. Lastly, an adenoma or an adeno-sarcoma may have ex- isted eight or ten years, and then rapidly assume the character of a cancer, i. e., become immovable, painful, and accompanied by harden- ing of the lymphatic glands. Cases also occur where the tumor of the mamma diminishes so much that it is supposed it has entirely dis- appeared ; unfortunately, this does not prevent the general outbreak of the disease, althoug-h it appears to retard it, or only to occur in mild cases, such as run on from four to six years. Some patients die early of anaemia from the ulceration and haemorrhage, without any metastatic tumors having formed. The period for the occurrence of metastatic cancerous tumors in the internal organs also varies; gener- ally, Avhen the local growth of the tumor is slow, metastatic tumors appear late; still, there are exceptions to this rule. In cancer of the breast the localization of the secondary tumors is very regular, as already stated • the pleura, liver, and bones, are the most frequent seats of metastatic tumors. The varying course of cancer of the breast renders it very diSi- cvdt, indeed almost impossible, to compare the result of early or late operations with those cases that run their course without operation ; even the age of the patient causes great differences; in old persons, the disease almost always runs a slower course than in young ones; numerous entirely unknown influences come in play. The most ex- perienced surgeons have given very different opinions about operating, some declaring that the course of the disease is hastened by operation, others that it is retarded. The statistical tables that have been pub- lished aid little in solving this question, because cases of all sorts are thrown together in them; to obtain a correct result from them, the cases must first be separated on certain principles. But Avhat good would this do ? It would always be a question, in each case, whether we should aid the patient by an operation or not. The tumors will almost always return in the cicatrix, in its vicinity or in the neighbor- ing lymphatic glands, because the^ are xtsually operated on too late ; the patients Avill then die of metastatic tumors, if they are not carried off sooner by suppuration, hmmorrhage, or acute disease. How much does the patient suffer from the tumor ? What clanger does it induce locally ? These are the first urgent questions. But I am anticipating by considering here the treatment, which we propose studying more attentively at the end of this section on cancerous diseases. Exami- nation of the enlarged lymphatic glands, which partly adhere together, shoAvs that the smaller are more succulent and Avascular than normal;