675 CYSTOMATA. superficial destruction of the skin ; but in other cases the secretion of the gland continues, and it distends slowly to a large sac. Such cysts, filled with fatty pulp and epidermis, are called pap-bags [grutzheutel), atheromata. On microscopic examination we find the pulp to consist of fat-drops, fat-crystals, especially cholestearine, epidermis-cells, and small plates. It has very varied color and consistence ; most athero- mata on the scalp, which develop at advanced age, contain a dirty- grayish brown, badly-smelhng, pulpy, pasty, sticky substance. Other tumors of this sort, especially those that are congenital, on the fore- head, temples, or face, are filled with a milky or light-yellow pulp, which, under the microscope, shows little besides epidermis-scales and crj’-stals of cholestearine. This form of atheroma is called “ chole- steatoma.” The sacs of these cysts are usually thin, and are com- posed of connective tissue; their inner surface is usually distinctly bounded by rete Malpighii, and is wavy, or elevated into papillre. I have found no other resemblance to cutis in these sacs, but others have found hairs and sweat-glands in them. The contents of these cysts sometimes become caleareous. Atheroma may rujature as a result of injury, or, very rarely, spontaneously; the pulp is evacuated, the edges of the opening are everted, and the inner surface of the sac becomes a bad-looking, ulcerated surface; except on the head and face, where they are frequent, these tumors rarely'occur. In the neck, salivary ducts (closed internally and externally, but open in the middle, which are lined with ei^idermis) may, in the course of years, become large cholesteatomata by the deposit of epidermis. These show themselves in the mouth (as ranula), or externally on the neck above and behind the thyroid. In the mucous membranes, also, inspissation of the glandular mucus and consequent hinderance to its evacuation, may cause development of mucous cysts; but probably the more frequent cause of retention- cysts here is closure of the excretory duct. The secretion in these glands is usually a tenacious, often thick mucus, of a honey-color (me- liceris), reddish yellow, or even chocolate-brown. On microscopical examination of the contents of the cyst, we find numerous large, pale, round cells, often containing fat-globules, in homogeneous mucus, also cholesterine crystals, often in large quantities. In the nasal mucous membrane these cysts are rare, but they occur in nasal mucous polypi, often to such an extent as to give them the name of cystic polypi. Luschka often found small cysts in the mucous membrane of the antrum Highmori. In the oral mucous membrane they occur chiefly on the inside of the lips, more rarely on the cheeks ; they are an ordi- nary occurrence in the uterine mucous membrane and in uterine polypi. In the rectal mucous membrane, on the contrary, mucous