647 SARCOMATA. is no intercellular substance, occasionally there is some; it may be homogeneous and soft, or fibrous ; if the fibrous portion preponderates, tlie tumor is called fibro-sarcoma, or fibroma. Formerly this spindle- celled tissue was termed young connective tissue (tissue fibroplas- tique, Xicbert); but from my histo- jrenetic investigations in the em- bryo I have long protested against this view, for spindle-celled tissue, as we usually find it in these sar- comata, does not occur in embryonal tissue at any period, not even in the tendons; the j^hysiological exam- ple of this tissue is young muscle and nerve tissue; these spindle- celled sarcomata would then be young myomata or neuromata. Virchow has carried the same view further, especially as far as regards fibrous uterine tumors (page 619). I protested against this view of Virchoio^s, with its con- Tbsue of a spindle-cellod sarcoma. sequences, as the diagnosis is always doubtful in special cases. When a nerve contains a tumor consisting of elongated sjaindle- cells, whose ends terminate in fine filaments, it is very natural to re- gard it as a neuroma whose elements are not fully developed at any point. When a spindle-celled tumor is develojied in muscle, .and the fibre-cells show band-like forms, even fine granulation, as in the com- mencement of striation, there could be no blame for calling these tu- mors “ myomata,” under the idea that they were young muscle-tissue that had not gone beyond certain bounds of development. So far there is no objection to this view. But when a spindle-celled sarcoma comes in tlie cutis, or on the penis (where I recently sa^v a remark- able case), we may be very doubtful whether the case is one cf young- neuroma, myoma, or fibroma ; in both of these parts there are nerves, muscles, and connective tissue. If, then, there be nothing typical in the arrangement or form of the cells, and the histological mode of origin cannot be certainly determined, we must content ourselves witli the term “ spindle-celled sarcoma.” At all events, we have to deal with a fibrous tissue, whose development lias not advanced beyond the production of spindle-cells. Moreover, I think I can alfirm from my observations that the course and prognosis of these tumors scarcely