TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 354 lire abscesses in the lungs, more rarely in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Cruveilhier proved that these metastatic abscesses were connected with the pus in the veins; but the mode of this connection was not explained till subsequently. What I shall tell you to-day on this subject is the result of numer- ous investigations and experiments, for which we a^e indebted to Virchow, and which have been so often repeated and confirmed by difi'erent persons that there can be no doubt of their correctness; I have myself studied the subject a good deal, and shall at the proper places state where I have arrived at different results. It would lead me too far to follow this great work of Virchow historically, and to give you an epitome of it; I must leave it to your own industry to study these works, and content myself Avith giving you a short resume of the positive results. The first imjDortant question is. What is the relation of the co- agulation of the blood to the inflammation of the vessel ? The former view, that the coagulation is due to the inflammation of the wall of the vessel, is purely hypothetical, and not susceiDtible of proof. On the contrary, we know from the investigations as to the formation of thrombus after ligation of arteries, and of the process of healing of injured veins, that there is immediate coagulation of blood in the injured vessel, before there can be any inflammation of the walls of the A'essel. The blood-clot forming in veins after their injury, and constituting their thrombus, is usually short, it is true, but we may readily imagine that it should increase in size from continued de- posits of fibrine. You know, from your studies in physiology, that we cause coagulation of the fibrine by whipping the blood. During the motion of the blood the coagulating fibrine deposits like crystals on a rough body, and you can readily satisfy yourselves exjjeriinent- ally that such a body, as a cotton-thread, introduced into the vein of a liviiiff animal, soon becomes covered with fibrine. Thus rouch- nesses of various kinds in the vessels may give rise to more or less extensive coagulations of the blood. These roughnesses may cer- tainly form on the inner Avail of the vein as a result of inflammation, and coagulation of the blood may thus be induced. Projections into the calibre of the veins may be caused by small abscesses in the walls ; formerly, it was supposed that there Avas a fibrinous coagula- tion on the inner surface of the inflamed vein, as on an inflamed pleura; it can scarcely be decided Avhether this really occurs ; Avhat was formerly considered as such has been found to be a discolored jje- ripheral layer of the blood-clot. At all events, inflammation of the Avails of the vessel A'ery rarely causes the coagulation; much more fre- quently the clot forming in a vessel after injury, under certain not accu-