TUMORS 712 As long as cancer has been known, remedies for it have been sought; there is no active medicine, no form of dietetics, or mineral siDiings, that have not been recommended for cancer, and, to some ex- tent, actually' believed in. I should have to root up the entire old and new materia medica if I would tell you of every thing that has been thought and Avritten on this subject. Like all incurable dis- eases, carcinosis also has been a wrestling-place for the charlatan, and even of late years Italians and Americans have claimed to cure the disease by special nostrums. Unfortunately, all these are deceptions, • or at least what part of it is true has been long known. Unfortunately, the etiology of cancer gives no clew to treatment; we know too little of the causes why certain tumors are so infectious, Avhile others are not so. A blow, kick, etc., may occasionally induce an outbreak of the disease in some few cases, but cannot excite the jDredisposition to cancer. In some cases inheritance of the disease is evident. Cai'c and anxiety may hasten the course of tlie disease, but do not induce it. All this is of no avail for the treatment. There is no specific for carcinosis; but by this we do not mean to say that all internal treatment is unnecessary or useless. By no means. The disease should be treated internally Avhenever there are indications for treatment, or any symptoms pointing to the use of certain reme- dies. As aufemia is not unfrequent in cancerous patients, iron in va- rious jDreparations, or chalybeate mineral waters, may be employed. Occasional!}^, in persons Avith faulty nutrition, cod-liver oil, etc., as well as bitter medicines, piwe beneficial by aiding digestion. Very debilitating treatment, by SAveating, purging, mercui’ials, etc., is to be aA^oided, for life Avill be preserA^ed the longer the more the strength is maintained. Among the mineral springs, the active ones, such as Aix-la-Chapelle, Wiesbaden, Karlsbad, Kreuznach, and Rheme, are injurious ; only the milder indifl’erent thermal springs, such as Ems, Gastein, Wildbad; also, milk and AAdiey cures, strengthening moun- tain air may be recommended Avithout injury, if their use seems on other accounts desirable. Residence in southern climates is usually of little benefit for cancerous patients. ToAvard the end of life, AA'hen debility is increasing, a stretigthening, easily-digested diet is impor- tant ; and lastly, as the pain increases, the skilful use of A'arious nar- cotics relicA^es the sufferings and death of the patient. The disease of internal organs may offer special indications to Avhicii I sliall not here refer. So much about internal treatment, Avhich I only follow Avhen not quite sure of the diagnosis, or Avhen I do not consider the case suited for operation. As regards external treatment, the first thing ahvays is tlie re- moval of the tumor, if this is admissible, from its locality. The opera-