324 GENERAL REMARKS ON ACUTE INFLAMMATION. diphtheria) causes death. It is very evident that fibrinous harden- ing of the tissue fluids is one of the severest alterations of their nu- trition ; and, as experience shows, it often ends in necrosis. Still, the severe general symptoms and extensive inflammatory redness in these processes cannot be due simply to the formation of fibrine, but seem referable to absorption of the products of decomposition in the diseased tissue, which has a very rapid poisonous action. In the acute inflammations with formation of fibrine there seems to be a scale of malignancy similar to those without such formation, so that this would seem to be rather an accident due to the variety of the tissue and its locality; and while its significance is very important, it is not essential to the inflammation, nor does it m.aterially change the course. The S6T0US tvdvisu^(Xt%on also, which accompanies acute inflam- mations, deserves a short notice. In many cases it certainly is the result of change of pressure in the vessels at the seat of inflamma- tion ; but it is just as much due to impaired function of the walls of the vessels and of the tissue; it is often a prominent symptom in inflammations of the connective tissue, especiallv of serous mem- branes. The walls of the vessels cannot hold the serum of the blood; the tissue does not prepare it ; veins and lymphatics do not carry it away, especially if they are covered and stopped up by fibrine (in inflammation of serous surfaces on which the lymphatics open). The serum in acutely inflamed tissue is essentially different from that which, without inflammation, causes dropsy, for it not only contains wandering cells and disintegrated red blood-cells, but also the soluble products of the inflammation. The removal of this fluid by the veins and lymphatics releases the tissues from a consid- erable pressure and carries off the injurious products, it is true; but part of it at least is carried into the blood, and probably causes the inflammatory fever. This has already been fully treated of. Now we might speak of the causes why circumscribed and often purely mechanical irritations, acting on small portions of the body, occasionally excite such intense spreading inflammations, and of the way these spread. But I will not now trouble you further with this subject. I have already said something about it in Lecture XXL, and shall hereafter have occasion to say more. Pathological anatomists have paid too little attention to these questions ; surgeons see their importance too often, and seek in vain for a means to arrest these spreading inflammations. In the clinic there will be many opportunities to call your attention to these important points. It is in the nature of our times to undervalue the significance