48 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS should have disappeared mostly or entirely. If the symptoms still increase the second, third, and fourth days, or if some of them, as se- vere pain, and great swelling, recur at this time, or if they remain at the same point to the fifth or sixth day, it is a sign that the course differs in some way from the normal. This will be especially evident from the general condition of the patient. The whole body reacts to an irritation of one part of it, not in a perceptible manner, in small w'ounds, it is true. We shall refer to this general reaction at the close of this chapter. At present, we shall consider exclusively the condi- tion of the wounded part. The third day, often indeed on the second, you may carefully re- move the pins of the twisted suture, provided you have also applied interrupted sutures; this is best done by seizing the needle with Dieffenhach's needle-holder, and rotating it gently, Avhile fixing the twisted threads with one finger. The threads usually remain as a sort of clamp on the Avound, to wdiich tliey are attached by di-ied blood; they subsequently loosen spontaneously; by forcibly detach- ing the thread, you Avould unnecessarily strain the wound, and possi- bly tear apart the freshly-united edges. If at this time Ave carefully feel the edges of the Avound—if the oedema has subsided—AA’e find them rather firmer than parts around ; this state of firm infiltration sooner or later disappears. Wlien you have applied many stitches, you may remoA^e some of them, that liaA'^e little to hold, on the third day; others, on the fourth and fifth. At the tensely-stretched parts of the skin it is Avell to leave a feAV threads for eight days or more, or even leave them till they cut through the flaps of the Avound, provided it can do any good to hold together the edges of the Avound, Avhich may be gaping oi^en. Should the inflammation quickly exceed the normal amount, aa'o must remove the sutures earlier, so that they may not increase the irritation ; not uufrequently blood, that is decomposing or mixed Avith pus, at the bottom of the Avound, is the cause of the unusual irritation. In removing the interrupted suture, you should take the folloAving precautions : cut the thread on one side of the knot, A\diere you can most readily introduce the thin blade of the scissors Avithout stretching the wound ; then seize the thread at the knot Avith a dissecting for ceps, and draAV it out tOAA'ard the side where it Avas diAuded, so as not to separate the edges of the Avound by the traction. Should you think that, after removing the suture, the union of tlie wound is still too Aveak to prevent its gaping, you ma}q by applying strips of ichthyocolla-plaster transA^ersely over the Avound, betAveen the points AA'here the sutures Avere, and fastening the ends (not the part