:20G SIMPLE EKACTURE OF BONES. glass dries quicker than starch, but not so soon as plaster, nor does it become as hard as the latter; this dressing does for fractures with no tendency to displacement; if we wish to fix dislocated fragments of bone by the liquid-glass dressing, we must strengthen it by applying splints. I doubt not the time will soon come Avhen every country physician will always keei? ^ plaster-splints ready prepared; in spite of them, provisional dressmgs remain useful. These consist of band- ages, compresses, and splints, of various materials. You may make splints of thin boards, shingles, cigar-boxes, pasteboard, tin, leather, firmly-plaited straAV, the bark of trees, etc., and, for bandages, must often content yourselves with old rags, muslin, torn into strips and sewed together; hence, in the practical courses on bandaging, it is necessary for you to learn to make use of the most varied materials. It is not our intention here to introduce to you every thing that may be used in the way of dressing, but I must still speak briefly of a few things. As may be readily seen, the object of the splints is to make the bone immovable by supporting it firmly on various sides; this may be attained by external, internal, anterior, and posterior, narrow wooden splints; we may, however, employ hollow splints, so-called gutters. Hollow splints are only good Avhen made of plia- ble material, as leather, thin sheet-iron, wire-gauze, etc.; an absolutely stiff, hollow splint would only do for certain persons. Besides these mechanical aids, there is another method of keeping broken limbs in position, namely, permanent extension. This is particularly indicated in cases where there is great tendency to shortening, to dislocatio ad longitudinem. Attempts have been made to attain this extension by- attaching Aveights by various mechanical contrivances, by continued traction made by weights hung to the injured limb, by the double- inclined plane, Avhere the Aveight of the leg is used as the extending Aveight. Since, during the past two years, I have unexpectedly seen such excellent effect from permanent extension Avith Aveights in pain- ful contractions at the hip and knee joints, I am compelled to believe that this method may also eventually prove very serviceable for the gradual adjustment of dislocated fragments of bone. Among the arrangements of this nature Avith AAdiich I am acquainted, V. Dum- reicher's so-called railroad apparatus best fulfils the object of perma- nent extension, but it is too costly and complicated to come into extensive use in prh'ate practice; it is, doubtless, the intention of the inventor to employ it chiefly in cases Avhere the dislocation is diilicult to overcome. [i)r. Gurdon Buck's apparatus for fractured thigh is about as efficacious and much sinqfier.] The double-inclined plane, represented by a thick roller-cushion apiilied under the hollow of the