NOMENCLATURE OF ULCERS. 4,37 only a slight amount of vitality, there also we shall have disintegra- tion instead of active inflammatory new formation; an ulcer will thus be formed which will spread gradually. This course, of an ulcer occurring primarily with molecular disintegration without precedent cellular infiltration, rarely presents itself in practice. Strictly speak- insT, molecular disintegration and gangrene are but quantitative varie- ties of the same process, viz., the death of certain portions of tissue; cases occur where ulceration and gangrene are very closely associated, as in hospital gangrene, of which we have already spoken; but, as before said, an inflammatory infiltration usually precedes the disin- tecTation. O The above observations, which show the relation of ulceration on the one hand to the new formation, on the other to the gangrene, will have rendered evident the difficulty of preserving systematic divisions of the course of this disease. But do not be afraid that I am going to confuse you; we will enter at once on the special peculiarities of ulcers, you will understand then more readily; here we shall only add that, according to the vital process, all ulcers may be divided into two chief varieties, viz., those where the new formation predominates, which we shall designate briefly as proliferating ulcers, and those where suppuration and disintegration are more prominent, which we shall call atonic or torpid ulcers. Between these two extreme boun- dary-points of the anatomical and vital peculiarities of .ulcers, there are numerous intermediate forms. To induce healing of an ulcer, the first requirement is arrest of the disintegration on the surface, next that the floor of the ulcer as- sume, at least approximately, the character of a healthy granulating surface, which goes on to cicatrize in the usual way. In torpid, atonic ulcers it is also absolutely necessary that there should be a free de- velopment of vessels and stronger cells, which do not lead to sup- puration, but to connective-tissue new formation; in proliferating ulcers, on the other hand, the new formation must be brought back to the normal size. As you will readily perceive, on reflection, this gives the indication for the local treatment to be followed in either case, to which we siiall soon refer. The nomenclature of ulcers varies greatly, according to the pecu- liarities that are made especially prominent. From the mode of ori- gin, just as in other chronic inflammations, we may distinguish two classes, or chief varieties, viz., idiopjithic and symptomatic ulcers. Idiopathic ulcers are such as result from purely local irritation; they may also be termed irritative ulcers. Symptomatic ulcers are such as from some dyscrasia appear as a symptom of constitutional disease, without the action of a local irritation on the affected part. This di-