661 SARCOMATA. comata early, as ^ye never know exactly what their future course will be. The diagnosis is often difficult; small, nodular, lobulated hard- enings may occur in the breasts from chronic inflammation, especially during and after lactation, which pass off spontaneously, or under the use of iodine. We often have to decide from the course whether the case is one of chronic inflammation which may subside, or an actual tumor. Even the most accurate anatomical examination is here of no avail, for young sarcoma-tissue cannot be distinguished from inflam- matory neoplasia. This is another case where the boundary between chronic inflammatory neoplasias and tumors cannot be accurately drawn. A second organ, in which adeno-sarcoma and adenoma develop, is the salivary gland. The tumors that form here are usually quite firm and elastic, are tolerably movable and grow very slowly ; they occur in the parotid more frequently than in the sub-maxillary gland, and very rarely in the sublingual. As seen by the naked eye, the anatomi- cal characteristics vary greatly ; the tumor is always distinctly bounded by a capsule, which is very intimately connected with the gland-tissue. The substance of the tumor may be of pulpj^, cartilaginous or fibrous consistence, it may be ossified, or calcified; it often contains cysts of briny, gelatinous, or serous fluid. Histological examination of these tumors shows that their softer parts consist of spindle-cells and stellate cells, sometimes with a slight, again, with a large amount of mucous or cartilaginous intercellular substance; there are also newly-formed gland-tubes. In rare cases, the tumor consists almost exclusively of cartilage, but very frequently there is some sarcomatous tissue present. These tumors may develop from the time of puberty to the fortieth year; they grow very slowly and painlessly, and particularly slowly when they do not form till middle age. Although they never retro- gnide, small tumors (say as large as an egg) of this variety may cease growing late in life. If these tumors be extirpated from young pa- tients, as a rule, they do not return. But later in life they often recur after extirpation, and return so quickly, that .they gradually grow deeper in the neck, and finally become inaccessible to the knife ; the neighboring lymphatic glands of the neck are infected, and the disease assumes the character of carcinoma ; the adeno-sarcoma becomes cancer of the gland. General development of sarcoma scarcely takes place from these tumors. From the course above described, we might form the rule of removing those tumors early in young patients, but in older ones of not being too hasty about extirpation, as rapid recurrence is to be feared, while occasionally tlie primary tumors grow slowly. Sar- comata of the sahvary gland are not frequent. Similar myxo-sarco- mata and myxo-chondromata occasionally develop in the oral mucous membrane.