ERYSIPELAS TRAUMATICUM. 345 or bv their simultuneous appearance. Suppose you have a patient with a suppurating- wound of tlie head, and after he has been previ- ously well, and the wound was healing nicely, you find him with high fever, Avhich may have been preceded by a chill; you examine the pa- tient, and can find nothing but some gastric derangement, as evinced by a coated tongue, bad taste in the mouth, nausea, and loss of appe- tite. This state is present at the onset of so many acute diseases that you cannot at once make a diagnosis. Besides the possibility of an accidental complication with any acute internal disease, you would think of phlegmon, lymphangitis, and erysipelas. Perhaps twenty-four liours later you find the wound dry, discharging a little serous secre- tion ; for some distance around there are swelling, redness, and pain, or the granulations are large, swollen, and croupous ; the redness of the skin is of a rosy hue and everywhere sharply hounded; the fever is still tolerably intense; now the diagnosis of erysipelas cannot be mis- taken, and we are well content that we have to deal Avith a disease which, although not free from danger, is one of the less dangerous of the traumatic diseases. In a second series of cases the erysipelas ap- pears with the fever. We may for a brief period doubt whether the case be one of lymphangitis, inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or of erysipelas, but the course of the disease Avill soon show this; the extent that the erysipelatous inflammation of the skin has the first day rarely remains the same, but it usually spreads farther and farther, in such a way that the rounded, tongue-shaped, project- ing borders of the inflamed skin are always sharply bounded, and we can accurately follow its removal from o'oe side to the other; in many cases the redness advances like fluid in bibulous paper. Thus the ]Arocess may extend from the head to the neck, thence to the shoul- ders, or the anterior part of the trunk, or even pass down tlie arm, and finally may even reach the lower extremities. Pflerjer has observed that the mode of extension of wandering erysipelas is almost always the same, and is probably due to the flow of certain fluids (lymph), which again depends on the arrangement of the filaments of ihe cutis. As long as the erysipelas spreads in this way, the fever usually remains at the same height, and thus old or debilitated persons are readily exhausted. Most cases last from two to ten days ; it is rare for one to continue over a fortnight; the most protracted case I have seen was one lasting thirty-two days and recovering. In this erysipelas ambidans or serpens you will notice tliat the same grade of inflammation of the skin only continues a certain length of time in one place, so that wlien the erysipelas advances, the whole surface is not inflamed at once, but only a part at a time is at the acme of the local inflammation. After tlie inflammation has remained at the same point about