514 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. Now for a short discussion of certain symptoms. Each form of this disease may run its course with more or less pain; the cause of this ! I am unable to explain ; there are eases where the bone is extensively < destroyed, without any pain, others wliere it is very severe ; the acute ' exacerbations with development of new abscesses are always rather ' painful—on probing the fistulas we sometimes find bone, at other ' times not; whether we feel it or not, depends on whether it is covered j with granulations or lies exposed ; the same is true of friction ; crep- itation is only valuable as a sign of caries of the articular extremi- | ties, when it exists; if it fail in the later stages, it is no proof that the bone is not diseased. The deformity, the displacement of the < articular surfaces, pathological or spontaneous luxations, are the only j evidence at all certain of the extent of the destruction of the bone ; ) here we can only be deceived when tlie capsule has ruptured early, i and the head of the bone is actually luxated; a rare case, which has, | however, been seen in the hip, and might possibly occur in the shoulder. . In regard to judging of the anatomical condition of the joint, little can be added to what has already been said, but we have some assistance i from the etiology and duration of the complaint. Profuse suppuration from the joint is always a sign that part of the s}Tiovial membrane ■ has not yet been destroyed, or that there are large abscesses near the joint; the secretion from fungous granulations is less abundant, serous or mucous. We have no certain evidences of the extent to which the cartilage is destroyed. To add any thing about the diagnosis and 2Jrognosis would only be to repeat what has already been said, from which you have all the data for forming your judgment. From my own experience, I think I may say that slight swelling of the joint, | with great pain and early muscular atrophy in anaemic children, but , with little or no suppuration, indicates primary disease of the bone, j and renders the prognosis very bad. A good nutritive condition is | the most important point for a favorable jDrognosis, which would not be very greatly affected even by early and extensive suppuration. LECTURE XXXVIII. Treatment of Tumor Albus.—Operations.—Resection of the Joints.—Criticisms on the Operations on the Different Joints. Now let us take up the subject of treatment. As in all chronic inflammations, this must be both general and local, and the general treatment should be the more prominent, the more chronic and insid-