. SYMPTOMS—HAEMORRHAGE. 2li you at the first glance. Hasmorrhages from incised wounds of the large arteries of the trunk, neck, and extremities, are always so con- siderable that they absolutely require to be arrested, unless the open- ings in their walls be very small. But, when the terminal branch of an artery is ruptured without a wound of the sldn, the haemorrhage may be arrested by pressure on the surrounding soft parts; such in- juries subsequently induce other changes, to which your attention will be called under other circumstances. Haemorrhage from the veins is characterized by the steady flow of dark blood. This is especially true of small and middle-sized veins. These haemorrhages are rarely very profuse, so that, in order to obtain a sufficient quantity on letting blood from the subcutaneous veins of the arm at the bend of the .elbow, we must obstruct the flow of blood to the heart. If this were not done, blood would only flow from this vein at the time of puncture, further haemorrhage would cease sponta- neously, unless kept up by muscular contractions. This is chiefly be- cause the thin walls of the veins collapse, instead of gaping, as the arteries do when divided. Blood does not readily flow back from the central end of the vein, on account of the valves ; we rarely have any thing to do with the vailveless veins of the portal system. Haemorrhage from the large venous trunks is always a dangerous sjnnptom. Bleeding from the axillary, femoral, subclavian or inter- nal jugular, is usually quickly fatal, unless aid arrive immediately; wounds of the vena anonyma may be regarded as absoluteh'- mortal. The blood does not flow continuously from these large veins, but the flow is greatly influenced by the respiration. In operations about the neck I have frequently seen patients live after their internal jug- ular vein had been wounded; during inspiration the vessel collapsed so that it mig'ht have been regarded as a connective tissue string; during expiration the black blood gushed up as from a well, or still more Uke the bubbling up of the water from a deep spring. In these veins near the heart, besides the rapid loss of blood, there is another element that greatly increases the danger; this is the en- trance of air into the veins and heart, as occasionally takes place with a gurgling noise, on deep inspiration, when the blood rushes toward the heart; this may cause instant death, though not necessarily. I cannot now enter more explicitly into this very remarkable phenom- enon, whose physiological effect has not, as it seems to me, been sat- isfactorily explained; you will again have your attention ealled to this subject by the books and lectures on operative surgery. I shall merely mention that, on opening one of the large veins of the neck or the axillary vein, there may be a perceptible gurgling sound; the patient instantly loses consciousness, and can rarely be restored to