TREATMENT OF CHRONIC PERIOSTITIS. 475 always regretted it. I saw, with great pleasure, that said almost exactly the same thing. Experience has sufficiently shown that none of our operations, aiming at imitating the slow spontaneous opening of these abscesses, prove as little kritating as the slow per- foration of the skin from within by ulceration. Various methods have been proposed for opening large cold abscesses, corresponding to the theories in regard to them. For a time it was thought that the pus must escape slowly, in order to prevent inflammation of the abscess- walls. To accomplish this, setons were introduced, and the pus allowed to trickle from the points of opening. Then it w^as claimed that, besides this slow escape of matter, the skin should be perforated slowly. For this purpose, a caustic was applied to the thinnest spot of the abscess, and a slough made, which gradually became detached, whereupon the pus slowly escaped. Subsequently it was supposed that we should carefully avoid the entrance of air, as this was the dangerous point; so a trocar was introduced, a portion of the pus was evacuated and the opening accurately closed, or the so-called subcu- taneous puncture, according to Abemethy, was made, i. e., the skin over the abscess was lifted up, and a narrow-bladed knife was passed under it into the abscess, a large part of the pus was evacuated; then the knife was quickly withdrawn, and the skin allowed to go back into its original position, so that the puncture in the skin did not communicate directly with that in the abscess-sac, but the latter was covered by the skin ; the cutaneous opening Avas carefully closed. Subsequently great importance was attached to placing the walls of the abscess in such a condition that the formation of ]3us should cease; it was thought that this could be done by injecting solutions of iodine after the pus was evacuated ; this method was especially popular in France. Recently a French surgeon (Chassaiynac) has returned with great enthusiasm to the old setons ; but, instead of these, he chose fine tubes of caoutchouc with perforated walls, so that the escape of the pus was greatly facilitated (Drainage, page 176). Lister^ an English surgeon, particularly urges that in opening these abscesses the instruments and dressings should be previously disinfected with carbolic acid, and also that the entrance of air should be carefully avoided ; his proceeding, like all previous ones, has enthusiastic advo- cates. It is not easy to decide on the value of all these methods; but, when such a number of remedies and methods are recommended, you may almost always decide that the disease in question is verv difficult to cure, and that none of the remedies are suited for all eases. Let us briefly criticise the above plans of treatment. A single evaeu- ation of the pus, do it as w6 may (we regard free openings of con- gestive abscesses as universally abandoned), has at first a tolerable