MIASMATIC INFECTION'. 2V9 llo-\v); but this expression is so much misused, and has come into such disrepute, that it should not be employed too often. 3. Toxic and Miasmatic Infection.—We have already (page 167) stated that moist and dry, jDurulent and putrid, substances brought in contact with a wound induce severe progressive inflamma- tions, if they enter the healthy tissue immediately after the injury or, under certain previously-mentioned circumstances, pass through the granulations of a wound into the tissue. It is true, the body is tolerably protected on its surface by the epidermis, on the mucous coats by thick ejaithelium, against the entrance of such poisonous and inflammatory materials, but the protection is not perfect. There are many poisonous substances which enter the body through the skin or mucous membrane. Some of them we term poison, such as the secre- tion from glander-ulcers in the horse, or from the carbunculous pus- tules in cattle; others we only know from their effects, from some circumstances of their origin. There are invisible bodies which we term “ miasmatic poisons,” .or briefly “ miasm” (gmcga, uncleanness) ; it is supposed that these miasms develop from decomposing organic bodies. Some consider them as gases, others as dust-like particles, others as minute organisms or their germs; I think that in many cases the latter is the correct view. The action of these poisons varies, inasmuch as some of them have a direct phlogistic action; in others it is more indirect. Thus some poisons, as pus, cadaveric poison, induce severe inflammation at the point where they enter the body {inf sctionsatrium) ‘ others excite no inflammation at that point, but are imperceptibly taken into the blood, and, although circulating through all the organs, only have an inflammatory effect on one or a few parts of the body. These poisons are, to a certain extent, only injurious to certain organs; they have a “ specific ” action. I shall not here speak of the primary action of this poison in transforming the blood. We do not know the chemically active constituents of most of these poisons which act specifically on one organ or tissue; we cannot see them circulate, nor can we always see their eflbcts. Hence, you may very justly ask me hov/ we can express ourselv^es with so much certainty on the subject. We decide on the causes by observing the morbid symptoms, and, in so doing, support ourselves mainly on their analogy to the effects of poisons intentionally intro- duced into the body, especially to those of our most active medicines. If we take the group of narcotics, they all have a more or less be- numbing effect, that is, a paralyzing effect, on the psychical functions, but they have also the most peculiar specific effects. Belladonna acts on the ins, digitalis on the heart, opium on the intestinal canal, etc. We see the same thing in other remedies. By repeated doses of can-