CimONIC LNFLAMMATIOX OF THE JOINTS. 534 LECTURE XL. C. Clironic Elioumntio Inflammation of tlie Joints.—Arthritis Deformans.—Malum Co.\03 Senile. — Anatomy, Different Forms, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Prognosis, Treatment.—Appendix I.: Loose Bodies in the .Joints: 1. Fibrinous Bodies; 2. Cartilaginous and Bony Bodies ; Symptomatology, Operations.—Appendix II.: Neuroses of the Joints. C. CHRONIC RHEUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINT.S—CHRONIC ARTICULAR RHEUMATISM—ARTHRITE SBCIIE—RHEUMATIC GOUT- ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS-MALUM SENILE COXJE. Tou will be frightened at this crowd of names, which all refer to the same anatomical morbid changes, and you will rightly ask, Why so many names for the same thing? When a disease has received so many designations, it is often a sign that its nature is not correctly understod, or that there have been various views regarding it at dif- ferent times; but this is not the case here, for the process has always been regarded in the same way, and all obseiwers fully agree in their decisions. It vdll be best to commence with the anatomy. The dis- ease chiefly affects the cartilage, secondarily the synovial membrane also, as well as the periosteum and bone ; in most cases the cartilage is primarily attacked. The changes that we find in the cartilage are as follows: In some places it becomes nodular, then rough on the surface, may be pulled into filaments, and, when the disease is far ad- vanced, it is altogether absent in places, leaving the bone exposed quite smooth and polished. If you examine the cartilage that is broken up into filaments, you will find even microscopically that the intercel- lular substance, whicli should be homogeneous, is filamentary. You also find that the cartilage-cavities are enlarged and contain cells, which are dividing up; but these cells are not so small or slightly developed as is customary in cell-formations occurring in inflamma- tions ; they are well formed, and sometimes, from a somewhat thick- ened membrane, are recognizable as new cartilage-cells ; the changes progress very slowly, and the newly-formed cells go on to a rather higher grade of histological development tlian in the above-described forms of inflammation (Fig. 99); the intercellular substance docs not soften, as in inflammations generally, but breaks up into filaments; tliis is a characteristic peculiarity of the disease, but tlicre are also various others. The rough cartilage does not resist the friction of the articular surfaces, but is gradually rubbed through, and is worn down to the bone. Tmmediatcl}' under the cartilage there is always a layer, even if it be very thin, of compact bony substance; lying next to this are the