347 ERYSIPELAS TRAU5LVTICUM. and by incision may evacuate pus. Microscopic examination of skin affected with erysipelas shows only more or less infiltration of the cutis and subcutaneous tissue. The causes of erysipelas evidently vary ; that occurring without a wound, spontaneous erysipelas capitis, is said to come most frequently after catching cold. Some old persons are said to have this disease everv year, in spring or autumn ; psychical influences are also blamed for it, especially terror, particularly in women during their menses. I cannot vouch for the latter, but think it may belong to medical traditions. Disturbances of digestion are also regarded as causes. I am very skeptical of all the ^fiews which are not based on accurate observation, but rest on tradition; indeed, I consider it doubtful whether erysipelas ever occurs without having started from a wound or some point of inflammation already existing. From what I have seen of erysipelas traumaticum, my idea con- cerning: it is as follows : I consider the local affection as an infiamma- tion of the cutis, in which the inflammatory irritation gradually spreads through tlie lymphatic net-works ; the way in which the in- flammatory redness spreads and is sharply bounded shows positively that the process is limited to the vascular districts ; by close observa- tion we may see that very often, close to the border of the redness, there forms a red, round spot, at first circumscribed, which soon unites with the previously-reddened portions of skin; these newly- forming red sjoots evidently represent vascular districts ; we see something similar when we inject the skin through an artery; then, too, the color from the injection first appears in spots, and only unites when heavy pressure is made on the syringe ; now, as the venous and lymphatic districts in the skin are to some extent analogous to the arterial, the irritating poison causing the dilatation of the blood- vessels might circulate in one of these tracts. The arterial and venous tracts in the cutis have few connecting branches parallel to the surface, while the lymphatic vessels have very many, and but few branches going down into the subcutaneous tissue ; thus the exciting poison may readily spread superficially in the cutis, like liquid in bibu- lous paper, but it also enters the subcutaneous lymphatics, and often causes inflammation there, as well as in the neighboring lymphatic glands, striated redness of the skin, and swelling of the adjacent lymifliatic glands. When I here speak of a septic or other similar poison as a cause of erysipelas, I refer only to traumatic erysipelas, for I think I have satisfied myself by observation that this is always of toxic origin. Concerning the nature of this poison, I may say: 1. It is chiefly blood mixed with decomposing secretion from the wound that induces erysipelas, which then appears the second or