620 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. most favorablo; tlie resection of tliis joint is not more dangerous than amputation of the arm; but, in favorable cases, after resection, quite a useful joint is lelt, while after spontaneous recovery there is gen- erally anchylosis; in these cases the choice is easier: we prefer re- section of the elbow-joint, not because the operation must be done to save life, for caries of this joint is only dangerous from long duration, but because, while the danger is relatively slight, it offers good chances of motion, and in any other case there is usually anchylosis ; indeed, the anchylosed joint has even been sawed out in order to obtain a movable false joint. Unfortunatelj', more recent observations on the motility of arms with resected joints have shown that the false joints formed after operation become more relaxed in the course of years, so that finally the operated extremity does not remain as useful as was formerly supposed. The case is very different with the knee-joint; here resection is quite a dangerous operation, being on a par with high amputations of the thigh; after resection of the knee we only obtain anchylosis, which is also the result of spontaneous recovery. Now, as this operation is quite dangerous, and as it gives no better results than non-operative treatment, in case the disease is arrested, it should only be done to save life, and, even in this respect, it is of doubtful advantage. I have rarely decided on an operation for caries of the knee-joint, either for amputation or resection ; we can only pro- pose amputation when all treatment is fruitless, and the patient is failing rapidly, or when it is an old person in whom extensive caries of the joint would be very unlikely to heal. The above are my personal opinions, which constantly become more fixed, as I see more such knee-diseases recover spontaneously. I have seen many children die of coxitis, and consequently am rather in favor of resection of the hip, in spite of the want of success of my own operations; the only deaths I have seen from caries of the knee have been in old, marasmic persons and those with tubercles and ex- tensive cavities in the lungs, while they have been rare in children ; in all of these cases operation would have been useless. Here you have my belief about operations of caries of the knee. Other surgeons have diflerent opinions ; in England, especially, the operation is so popular that it is very often performed, I believe that many German surgeons share my views on this subject, others are more undecided, as they view this operation more favorably from having seen a lew successful resections of the knee-joint. Formerly, I was entirely op- posed to resection of the knee-joint, but have been rather unsettled by a series of favomble results that I have lately had trom this oper- ation. If the cases with good chances be chosen for operation, and unfavorable or doubtful ones neveroperated on,the operations will be