457 CARIES. liferating or torpid variety? This will have an influence on the treatment, as it has in case of ulcers of the soft parts. And it is im- portant not only for the treatment, but for the prognosis ; for pure torpid caries offers far poorer chances than the fungous form, be- cause it is far more apt to occur in poor, badly-nourished, and old persons. The distinction is not difficult. In the more proliferating forms, the swelling of the soft parts, periosteum, and skin, and espe- cially of the articular capsule when the caries alfects the articular ends of the bone, is often considerable; all these parts feel spongy. If there be any openings in the skin, proliferating granulations pro- ject from them, and a mucous, tough, synovia-like pus escapes. If you examine with the probe, you do not come at once on bare bone, but must push the probe into the granulations, often to some depth, before entering the rotten bone. In the pure atonic form there is less swelling, the skin is thin, red, and often undermined. The edges of the opening are sharp, as if cut out with a punch; there is a discharge of thin, serous, sotne- times badly-smelling or sanious pus ; if you introduce the probe, you come at once on the bare, rough bone, from which the soft parts have already been separated by suppuration and maceration. These are the extreme cases of the series; tliere are various intermediate forms. Taking all things into consideration, I think you will now have a correct idea of caries superficialis. Let us make a short review of what we know of chronic diseases of the periosteum and bone. We have considered chronic osteo- plastic periostitis (with formation of osteophytes without suppura- tion), suppurative periostitis alone, and combined with ostitis superfi- cialis, or caries. But osteoplastic periostitis may combine Avith caries, and this combination is even frequent, i. e., osteophytes form round a carious point in the bone. If you examine a series of preparations of carious joints, you find the osteophytes starting from the surface of the bone, around the destroyed portion ; the periostitis, which at one place induced destruction of the bone, caused formation of new bone in the vicinity. You may very aptly compare this to an ulcer with callous edges—thickening by new formation in the periphery, de- struction in the centre. But we do not have formation of osteophytes at the periphery in atonic forms of caries; it only occurs in those which, at least for a time, bore a proliferating character; just as in torpid, scrofulous ulcers you only find thickened edges where the skin had for a long time been thickened by plastic infiltration, so in the bone also we have this combination of proliferation and destruction which we have so often met in the study of inflammation.