APPENDIX. 158 layers, or else do not acknowledge its significance for the pathologi- cal neoplasia?. Since this question was first earnestly discussed it has come up repeatedly, not only in the same generations, but to the same person, I cannot here repeat all that I have said about the origin and increase of true epithelia; I will merely add that the car- cinomatous and epithelial forms found in primary cancer are also invariably found in the infecting tumors in the lymphatic glands. This seems to speak strongly in favor of the traveling of cellular elements, for it is scarcely probable that the fluid from a columnar epithelial cancer should influence the cells in the lymphatic glands to produce cylindrical epithelium. 38.—P. 684. From the above peculiarities even in the most difficult cases, we may always find the genetic differences between sarcoma and carci- noma. The first commencements of sarcoma and carcinoma are often scarcely distinguishable (compare Fig. 139 n with 162 and 163) ; both cases are very glandular in formation. But things change after a time; the cell-cylinders of the sarcoma have either stai’ted from vessels, or vessels soon grow in them ; while this never happens in carcinoma, but the cylinders, even when quite large, remain without vessels, or else a cavity forms in them as in the development of glands (compare Fig. 139 b with 169). I dare not enter further into the general histological description of these tumors, and hope you will be able to recognize them. 39.—P. 685. When speaking of sarcoma I said something about the difference of its course from that of carcinoma. I here repeat again that the latter always first affects the adjacent lymphatic glands; often the infection does not extend beyond them ; in other cases there may be metastatic tumors in internal organs or the bones. The small epi- thelial germs find the most favorable soil for their development in the lymphatic glands. The rapidity of the course varies exceeding- ly ; tills we shall consider more closely when treating of the topogra- phy of carcinoma. In most cases no cause for carcinoma is discovered ; sometimes it has been preceded by injury or ulceration. My observation does not confirm what we hear and read about cancerous cachexia and the peculiar appearance of the patient, A person with cancer finally becomes marasmic, just like any one else who has severe disturbance