INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 315 a joint remains stiff and painful, and passes into a state of chronic inflammation. You see that the prognosis of tliis disease, as far as it concerns the joint, may be called very favorable; without any inter- ference from the physician, the joint-inflammations generally run a favorable course. Hence all that we do for the local disease is to en- velop the joint in wadding, tow, oakum, or wool, to protect it from changes of temperature. Mild cutaneous irritants and painting with tincture of iodine may also be useful. For alleviating the pain in the joints and hastening the course of the disease, Stromeyer and others recommend the employment of bladders of ice, and generally keeping the joint cool, rather than warm. But I think this treatment will find few disciples, for it is quite troublesome, and experience shows that the articular inflammations get on well without such applications. Internally, we may give diuretics, diaphoretics, or cooling salts; in heart-affections, local antiphlogistics, digitalis, etc., are indicated, as will be taught you more particularly in sjaecial pathologies, and in the medical clinics. Next to acute rheumatism comes acute arthritic inflammation of the joints. The attack of podagra or chiragra is also specific and belongs to true gout; here, also, the articular inflammation is an acute serous synovitis, but with very little secretion of fluid in the joint. But one thing peculiar to acute arthritic inflammation is the never- faihng coincident inflammation of the surrounding parts : the peri- osteum, sheaths of the tendons, but especially of the skin; this always reddens, becomes glistening and tense, as in erysipelas, and is very painful; it even desquamates occasionally after the attack. Acute arthritic articular inflammation is far more painful than rheu- matic. We shall hereafter speak of the treatment of arthritis and the arthritic diathesis. There is still anotlier variety of acute articular inflammation, the metastatic, about which we shall have something more to say when treating of pymmia. Acute or subacute metastatic inflammation of the joint is usually at first serous, but soon purely suppurative syno- vitis. Several forms may be distinguislicd : 1, GonorrJiceal inflammation of the joints. This occurs in men suffering from gonorrhoea; occasionally, also, it occurs after the intro- duction of bougies into the urethra ; it attacks the knee-joint almost exclusively. Some authors assert that it is especially apt to develop when the gonorrhoea is arrested suddenly. This is not my own ex- peiienco. In proportion to the frequency of gonorrhoea, it is very rare, but I have seen it quite frequently when a patient with active