CAKBUNCLE. 285 student in Zurich received a sword-cut on the left side of the head. The wound healed Avithout any remarkable symptoms; but it was a long while before it closed entirely. For some time there was a small, open wound, which was so slight that the jDatient paid no at- tention to it. Violent straining while fencing, and perhaiDS subse- (|uently catching cold, may have been the causes of the following catastrophe. One morning the young man awakened with consid- erable pain in the cicatrix, and a general feeling of illness; a rosy redness and moderate swelling of the scalp rendered an attack of simple erysipelas capitis probable. But the fever increased in an unusual manner, without the redness spreading over the head. The patient had a chill, and became delirious. When on the thhd day he was brought to the hospital, in the vicinity of the cicatrix I found a number of small white sjDots, which showed me at once that there was carbunculous inflammation; as the patient Avas entirely uncon- scious, and for several reasons there Avas probably inflammation of the meninges of the brain, I had little hope of a cure; I gave the ne- cessary directions, but the next day the patient was dead. The autopsy showed vai-ious white gangrenous pointsdn the inflamed scalp cicatrix ; on seeking further, the neighboring veins Avere found plugged with clots, and along them the cellular tissue was SAvollen and con- tained points of pus. Anteriorly I could folloAV this condition of the veins as far as the orbit, but did not try to folloAV it farther, not Avish- ing to injure the eye. After opening the skull, as soon as the brain AA'as removed, aa'C found in the left anterior cranial fossa a moderately inflamed spot about as large as a dollar; the disease affected both the dura and pia mater, and even entered the brain-substance. There Avas no doubt that the inflammation starting from the cicatrix on the head had travelled along ^a vein into the cellular tissue of the orbit, and thence through the ojjtic foramen and superior orbital fissure into the skull.” In many cases of malignant carbuncle of the face, on careful ex- amination Ave shall find such an extension of the inflammation to the cranial cavity, and consequent disease of the brain. But I must re- mind you that the extent of this inflammation as found in the cadaver is not at all in proportion to the se\"erity of the constitutional svmp- toms, so that the latter are by no means fully explained by the moi'tem appearances. Indeed, there are cases, and just the most quickly fatal ones, Avhere death occurs Avithout our being able to find any disease in the brain. Hero there is full room for hypothesis ; in the rapid, violent course and the quick change of carbunculous in- fiammation to gangrene we suspect a rapidly-occurring decom2)osition of the blood, of which the carbuncle itself may be cither the cause or