133 EXTRACTION OF FOREIGN BODIES. If we cannot find the needle, we may move the parts some; the needle is then sometimes moved into a position where it may be seized more readily. The extraction of foreign bodies requires a cer- tain amount'of practice and manual dexterity, which we acquire only with time and practice; here natural knack is of great service. Punctured wounds, made with instruments not very shai-p, are occasionally interrupted in their process of healing. Externally they heal by first intention, but after a few days there are suppuration and inflammation in the deeper parts; the wound either opens, and the whole tract of the wound suppurates, or the pus breaks through at some other point. This occurs particularly in cases where a foreign body, as the point of a knife, remains behind, or where the wound was made with a blunt instrument. In examining the wound, you should always bear in mind the possibility of a foreign body remain- ing behind, and, if possible, see the instrument with which the injury was done, and find exactly in what direction the instrument passed, so that you may know about what parts are injured. However, even in unfavorable cases there are occasionally very little inflammation and suppuration. A short time since a man came to the clinic who, a few days previously, had fallen a moderate height from a tree, lighting on his left arm, while engaged clipping the small branches. On the dor- sal surface, a few inches below the elbow, the arm was swollen; on the volar surface, just above the wrist, there was a slight excoriation; the arm could be extended and flexed without pain ; only pronation and supination were impaired and painful. There was no solution of continuity of the bones of the forearm; the bones were certainly not broken through. At the swollen spot on the dorsal side, an inch below the elbow, immediately under the skin, we could, however, feel a firm body, which could be pressed back somewhat, but it at once returned to its old position. It felt just as if a piece of bone had been broken off lengthwise, and lay close under the skin. Incompre- hensible as it must seem for such a detachment of bone to occur by simply falling on the arm, wnthout fracture of the radius or ulna, I nevertheless had the patient ancesthetized, and again made the at- tempt to press into position the suspected fragment; but it did not succeed. As it lay so close under the skin that it would necessarily have perforated ere long, I made a small incision through the skin to extract it. To our great astonishment, I drew out, not a fragment of bone, but a small branch, five inches long, which was quite firmly held by the two bones of the forearm. It was incompreliensible how this twig could have entered the forearm; but, on more careful examination at the above-mentioned excoriated spot on the volar surface, we found a linear, slit-like wound, which had already closed.