TREATMENT. 523 trix, still it is not regenerated as after necrosis, but tlie foot contracts greatly at the point from which the bone is absent, and thus becomes distorted and useless. These are decided objections; moreover, a good stump, sucli as is left by Gliopari's or JPirogoff^s operation, is often just as good or even better for walking than a weak, deformed foot, and it requires several months to get the latter into shape, Avhile the former may be obtained in six to eight weeks. In one case, I removed all three cuneiform bones, and the os cuboid, with good results; in other cases, in boys, I have removed the astragalus ; then the tibia articulated with the calcaneus, the new joint remained mova- ble, and the patient did not even limp ; such results are very encom-- aging for this operation. Another time I wished to remove the cal- caneous alone for caries, but unexpectedly found the lower part of the astragalus alFected, and had to remove it also; the result was miser- able: the young boy lay six months in the ward, and even then did not recover, so I amputated at the lower part of the leg, and the wound healed by first intention ; a few weeks later, the patient left the hospital well, with a good wooden leg, glad to be rid of his sore foot. The very favorable results of Pirogoff''s amputation make a strong opposition to resection of the anl-de-joint, and I think that experience will soon speak more strongly than now against too great employment of exsection, and for amputations through the foot. Resections of joints, which have excited so much controversv the last twenty years, at first appeared so brilliant from the favorable results in certain joints, such as the elbow and shoulder, that they were sometimes too much resorted to ; this is the fate of all inventions of the human mind. We are only now g’radually coming to certain indications for these operations; of course statistics had first to be collected, and it tvas soon found that resection was of varied value in different joints. Although I am not prepared to say that the question is oven now settled, still I believe I have given you a correct r'esum'e of the present position of affairs.”" I cannot refrain from making one observation at the close of this chapter. In the Canton Zurich patients who had been successfully treated for caries, by resection or amputation, often returned, and, sad to say, many of them who, after suffering for years, had been per- fectly cured, and had left the hospital quite strong, came back after a year or two with caries of other bones, or with tubercles of the lungs, and often died there. I have been unable to gather any extensive statistics as to the final terminations of bone and joint diseases, but fear that they will prove much more unfavorable than we generally incline to believe."'’