V40 APPENDIX. on for some days. Penghawar Djambi is the light yellowish, soft, hairy substance from the trunk of the Cibotium Cuminghii, a native of the East Indies. [This must closely resemble the stj^tic cotton so commonly used by us. During the past year, 1878, Fa- queUn^s cautery has been used a good deal, and is very convenient. By a hand-bellows a stream of benzine vapor is thrown against a platinum cap which has been previously heated in a spirit-lamp; after it has once reached a red or white heat, it is easily kept at that point by the benzine vapor. It is readily used, and when at a white heat its application is not painful. For haemorrliages from the vagina or uterus, water at a temperature of 110° Fahr. may be in- jected for some time by means of Favidsoti’s syringe.] 3.—P. 57. Observers, who have of late persistently studied these questions, refer the continued capillary dilatation in acute inflammation to changes in the capillary walls, which are caused directly by the inflammation. Gohnheim claims that inflammation affects the walls of the vessels peculiarly, so that they are not only distended by the blood, but also become softer, of which more hereafter. Samuel ascribes inflammation to changes in the relations of the blood, walls of the vessels, and tissue to each other. Up to the present we have not succeeded in finding accurately the chemical and physical changes in the walls of the vessels, which are known only by their results. This view is an advance beyond Lotze’s view (according to which the molecules of the capillary walls separated from nervous irrita- tion), inasmuch as no nerve-action seems to occur in this capillary dilatation developing in acute inflammation. This also corresponds with the demonstrations of Schiff^ already mentioned, that the vas- cular dilatations forming after division of the sympathetic are not inflammatory, nor do they lead to inflammation without some fur- ther cause. 4,—P. 69. In his history of plastic operations Zeis has collected all published cases of reunion of parts that had been entirely separated. Jiosen- herg has completed this list to the present time, and gives a number of cases carefully observed by himself where portions of noses and fingers which had been cut off reunited. He confirmed previous ob- servations that the epidermis and occasionally small portions of the surface of such parts became gangrenous, while healing went on below