CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 412 even of the single irritation, will be different, possibly more continued, because the conditions in the tissue will not be so favorable for typical removal of the disturbance. Suppose a portion of skin already suf- fering from chronic inflammation to be superficially contused, this sin- gle irritation may induce chronic suppuration, or even progressive ul- ceration, which, under normal conditions, would quickly have gone on to new formation of epidermis and healing. The cases where we find such purely local causes for the origin and continuance of chronic inflammation are comparatively rare. In the great majority of cases the cause is not so evident; the case must be watched and tried in various ways before we can obtain any clew to the etiology of most chronic inflammations and diseases. We have not here mentioned miasm and contagion from the domain of general etiology; and we may leave them out of the question, for there is nothing to show that chronic inflammation may arise from a single action of contagion or miasm. It is true there are chronic malarial diseases, such as intermittents, etc.; but there the cause of injury acts continuously, and not unfrequently the disease can only be cured by removing the jaatient from the miasmatic atmosphere; hence this case corresponds to a continued external irritation. The same is true of repeatedly catching cold, where the new attack affects the body already diseased, and thus induces chronicity of the process. But all this does not suffice for the etiology of chronic inflammations; we must also look for the causes in certain congenital or developed conditions of the whole body. Let us hear what exijerience teaches on this subject. On careful observation we first notice that certain forms of chronic inflammation constantly recur in certain organs and certain parts of the body; that at the same time they show themselves chiefly at cer- tain ages and in persons presenting some similarities in their external conditions. Thus we see children of the same class, Avho are pecu- liarly disposed to chronic swelling and suppuration of the lymphatic glands, joints, and bones, other persons wlio are chiefly affected by insidious inflammation of the lungs, others who are particularly liable to colds and have pains in the different muscles and joints. 'SVe also see that such persons, who are constantly being attacked in the same way, transfer their individual pathological peculiarities to their de- scendants ; that those leaving such legacies have in their turn recci\ed them from their fathers or mothers. 1 o obtain some clear idea of individual morbid predispositions in this chaos, persons predisposed to certain chronic diseases were divided into groups ; thus, in a purely empirical manner, men were di\aded, according to morbid dispositions or diatheses, into Ij'inphatic, scrofulous, tuberculous, rheumatic, etc.