CYSTOMATA. Q11 but there are other cysts in these glands that contain a gray, friable pulp, which looks like that from sebaceous glands, but dilFers essen- tially from it because it contains only the detritus of thyroid tissue ; I have never seen genuine atheroma-pulp in thyroid cysts. Among the complicated cystic tumors are the cysto-sarcomata of the breast, of which we have already spoken (page 657), cystomata of the ovary and testicle, cysto-adenoma, cysto-sarcoma, and cysto- carcinoma. According to recent investigations, in the great majority of these cases there is a new development of gland follicles or ducts, from which terminal swellings become choked oflF, as results normally in the development of thyroid or ovarian follicles. A mucous wine- yellow, brownish-red, or dark-brown fluid is secreted in these newly- formed follicles (perhaps also in the normal ovarian follicles) ; this gradually distends the follicle, which was at first microscopic. Some- times immense ovarian tumors (distending the abdomen more than it is in the ninth month of pregnancy) may develop from such a follicle, or from the confluence of several of them to a common cavity. In other cases, hundreds or thousands of such follicles develop, forming the multilocular cystic tumors of the ovary. The latter process also occurs in the testicle, although more rarely than in the ovary. In both of these organs, as in the mamma and thyroid, the contents are mucous as a rule; but, in the neoplastic follicular cysts of the ovary and testicles, there are occasionally secretion of fat and extensive pro- duction of epidermis; these may remain as epithelial or epidermis pearls (cholesteatoma pearls, page 675), as big as a millet-seed or a pea, as I have seen them in tumors of the testicle, or form large cysts containing fat-pulp. The walls of these cysts, which are found the size of a child’s head or larger, in the ovaries of old women, are usually more highly organized than those of cutis atheroma ; large quantities of hair, sebaceous glands, sweat-glands, papillm, even Avarty growths, are not imfrequently found in them. Indeed, plates of cartilage and bone, Avith teeth of varied form, have been found in these cysts, so as to render it probable that they Avere aborted foetuses from an incom- plete ovarian pregnancy. Besides occurring at the above positions, composite cysts are occa- sionally congenital about the sacrum ; they often contain ciliated epi- thelium, and, besides other tissues, they sometimes have glandular, follicular formations. The tissues in these congenital tumores coc- cygei vary from tlie relatively simple forms of cysto-sarcoma to the foetus infoetu, and cannot here be further entered into AAuthout going into details and fine discussion. I must lastly mention cysts containing perfectly fluid venous blood, and having smootli Avails, Avhich are here and there mentioned