14 INTRODUCTION. Before entering on our subject, I will add a few remarks about the study of surgery as it is, or is said to be, pursued in our high- schools. In the four years’ course of medical study which is customary in German universities, I would advise you not to begin surgery before the fifth semestre. You often desire to escape the preliminary studies and plunge at once into the practical. It is true, this is somewhat less the case since courses on anatomy, microscopy, physiology, chem- istry, etc., have been started in the high-schools, where you have some practice; nevertheless, there is still too much haste to enter the din ics. It is true, it is one way of gaining experience from the very start; you consider it more interesting than bothering yourselves at first with things whose connection with practice you do not exactly un- derstand. But you forget that a certain school of observation must be gone through with, to enable us to make actually useful what we know. If any one just released from school should at once enter the hospital as a student, he would be in the same position as a child entering the world to collect knowledge. Of what use are the ex- periences of the child for his subsequent life among men ? How late it is before we see the true use of the most common observations of daily life ! Hence, to wade through the entire development of medi- cine in this empirical manner would be a long, tedious labor, and only a very gifted, industrious man would learn any thing in this way. After having made numerous errors, we must not place too great a value on “ experience ” and “ observation,” if by these terms we mean no more than the laity do. It is an art, a talent, a science, to observe critically, and from our observations to draw coi-rect conclusions for our “ experience; ” this is the strong point of the empiric; the laity know experience and observation in the vulgar, not in the scientific sense, and they value the so-called experience of an old shepherd as high as, sometimes higher than, that of a physician; unfortunately, the public are sometimes right on this point. But enough ! when a physician or any one else displays his experience and observation be- fore you, look sharply to see whether he has any brains. In making these remarks against pure empiricism, we do not by any means intend to say that you must be theoretically acquainted with all medicine before studying it practically, but you should bring a certain knowledge of the fundamental principles of natural science with 3^ou into the clinic. It is absolutely necessary to have a general idea of what you are to expect; and you must know something of the tools before seeing them used, or taking them in your hands» In other words, j^ou should know the outlines of general pathology and therapeutics, as well as of materia mcdica, before going to the bed-