401 HYDROPHOBIA. mal, especially in the brain and spinal medulla; but vve must add that hitherto no microscopical examinations of these parts have been made, while it is veiy probable that, in cases where paralysis very evidently occurs, there is degeneration of the spinal medulla, although otherwise the predominant character of the disease is humoral. As regards the transfer of hydrophobic poison to man, it is a relief to know that all those bitten do not become sick, but that only about one out of twenty cases bitten is attacked. Usually the bite heals readily; more rarely' it suppurates a long time, which is to be regarded as very favorable; the local reaction is never of such a nature as to threaten danger, and in this respect the hydrophobic poison differs essentially from the animal poisons heretofore mentioned; it is not a phlogogenous poison. The outbreak of the disease rarely occurs in less than six weeks after the bite, frequently even later ; a case has recently been observed where the disease first appeared after six months. Older writers give a still longer period of incubation; there is a popular belief that the figure 9 plays an important role; it is said that the disease appears the 9th day, the 9th Aveek, or the 9th month after the bite, and that before the end of the 9th year there is no security that the disease will not appear. This is certainly a fable, which is readily explained by the fact that the long duration of the incubation is very strange, and has given rise to the various stories. Where the poison remains hidden during this long time, whether in the cicatrix, in the next lymphatic glands, or in the blood, is entirely unknown. In a few cases only it has been observed that, shortly before the outbreak of the disease, the patient had noticed a slight redness of the cicatrix ; then the first symptoms were great irritability, excitement, and restlessness, and in rare cases, even in this stage, there Avere spasms on attempting to swalloAV. The ii-ritability conr stantly increases; the light, every noise or draught, pains these un- fortunate patients, and may excite general spasms and the pains on swallowing. Noav, very gradually, the fear of Avater appears; the patients suffer from unspeakable thirst, and as soon as they see any liquid they are attacked by horrible anxiety and spasms; occasional! v, attacks of deep spasmodic inspiration follow; the patient cannot sleep, and is in constant dread of the least sound, as any thing excites the convulsions, Avhich finally affect lire Avhole body, and then lead to actual madness, with the appearance of most fearful anxiety. But, on the Avhole, the patients may be readily calmed by quiet and by speaking to them, and become either perfectly resigned or melancholy. Occasionally they warn those about them not to come too near or they may bite them, but they are not at all malignant, as they were for- merly described. Great salivation and foaming from the mouth do