059 SARCOMATA. serous contents, whose development we shall immediate!}’ follow. The tissue of the neoplasia itself is usually composed of small, round, spindle-shaped, rarely of branched cells, w’ith considerable developed, fibrous, sometimes gelatinous intercellular substance. In some of these tumors the fibrous tissue may be so prevalent that, in consist- ence and constitution, the entire tumor may resemble fibroma. Acci- dental cartilaginous and osseous tissue are occasionally observed, but are very rare, and have no influence on the coirrse of the disease. If the gTowth of these tumors were regular throughout, the excretory ducts and acini of the glands w^ould be equally enlarged or compressed ; for, if you imagine a part of the gland, say a lobule, spread out as a surface, and suppose the basis to which this surface is attached en- larging, the epithelial sm-face must also enlarge. But the glands may be regarded as surfaces bulged out in many i^laces, so that this representation is quite proper. Such a reg-ular growth in all parts of a gland never or very rarely occurs; the result is, that frequently only the excretory ducts elongate or enlarge m uch; this induces the slit- shaped, elongated cysts, visible to the naked eye; but, by simultane- ous distention of the glandular acini, roundish cysts are often formed. In this stretching of the sacculated glandular surface, the epithelium increases and develops to a higher stage, inasmuch as the small, round ejjithelial cells of the acini increase greatly, and change to a layered- cylindrical epithehum. The glandular substance thus altered secretes a muco-serous liquid, a very minute portion of which is spontaneously evacuated from the nipple, while most of it is retained in the tumor, and serves to dilate the already distended glandular cavity (retention and secretion cysts). Then the tumor-substance again grows into these cysts in the 10™ of lobulated, leaf-like proliferations (cystosarcoma phyllodes, jrrolife- rum; John Muller), so that the cut surface may thus acquire quite a complicated appearance. The relation of this cyst-development to the sarcoma (the nature and course of the disease is not much influenced by the former) varies greatly in these, as in all cystosarcomata. Mammary and cysto sarcomata are not very rare, but are far less frequent than the cancers of the breast, Avhich we shall hereafter men- tion. The disease is most frequent in young married women, but also occurs shortly before puberty—rarely after the fortieth year of life. The growth of these tumors is very slow, and is painless before they become large; later, however, they are accompanied by piercing pains; as the tumor may grow as large as a man’s head, and ulcerate, it may prove very troublesome. Some of 'these sarcomata have the peculiarity of swelling, and becoming slightly painful shortly before