435 ANATOMY OF ULCERS. example. Let us supi^ose that from any of the above-mentioned causes we have a chronic inflammation in the skin of the leg, say on the anterior surface of its lower third. The skin is traversed by di- lated vessels, hence it is redder than normal, it is swollen, partly from serous, partly from plastic infiltration, and it is sensitive to pressure. Wandering cells are infiltrated, especially in the supei-ficial. parts of the cutis; this renders the papillae longer and more succulent; the development of the cells of the rete Malpighii also becomes more plentiful, its superficial layers do not pass into the normal, horny state; the connective tissue of the laapillary layer is softer and be- comes partly gelatinous. Now, slight friction at any point suffices to remove the soft, thin, horny layer of the epidermis. This exposes tlie cell layer of the rete Malpighii; new irritation is set up, and the ]-esult is a suppurating surface, whose upper layer consists of wan- dering cells, the lower of greatly degenerated and enlarged cutane- ous papilljE. If at this stage the part be kept at perfect rest, and protected from further irritation, the epidermis would be gradually regenerated, and the still superficial ulcer would cicatrize. But usually the slight superficial wound is too little noticed, it is exposed to new in-itations of various Idnds; there are suppuration and molecu- lar destruction of the exposed inflamed tissue, then of the j^apillm and the result is a loss of substance which gradually grows deeper and wider; the ulcer is fully formed. The accompanying figure is the section of a spreading ulcer of the skin; it formed the basis of this description (Fig. 72). Fio. 72. c Cnlancons ulcer of the leg. Magnilled 100 diameters ; after Fdreter. Atlas, Taf. XI. At a you see the cutis already somewhat thickened, toward b its jiapillae are enlarged, while the vascular loops increase, and the connective tissue is more richly strewn with cells; at b is the fully- formed ulcenited surface ; at c the epidermis is much thickened and forms the indurated border of the ulcer.