SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT FARTS. 36 v\'ith the finger behind the velum, and bringing the end out of tlie mouth to tie tlie thread to it. But the employment of this substitute requires more dexterity than is necessary for JSelloc’s sound. 3. Styptics are remedies which act partly by causing contraction of the tissue, partly by inducing rapid and firm coagulation. Tlie num- ber of remedies recommended is immense; we shall only mention those that have a proved reputation under certain circumstances. Cold not only irritates the arteries and veins to contract, but also makes the other soft parts contract and thus compress the vessels; the current of blood is gradually more obstructed, and may even stagnate entirely, Avhen the part is completely frozen. It seems to me, however, that the recommendation of cold as a hasmostatic is often carried too far; I advise you not to rely on it too much. Cold may be employed as follows: first, we may squirt ice-water against the bleeding wound, or into the vagina, rectum, into the bladder through a catheter, into the nose or mouth—here the mechanical irritation of a strong stream of water is added to that of the cold; or you may lay pieces of ice on the wound, or introduce them into the cavities, or have them swallowed in gastric or pulmonary haemorrhage; or, lastly, you may fill a bladder with ice and apply to the wound, to be left on for hours or days. The absolute quiet to be observed in all haemorrhages and the dim- inution in size of the arteries as a result of the bleeding that has already occurred, may often have more effect in arresting the hasmor- rhao-e than ice has, while it receives all the credit. I will not dissuade you from using cold in moderate parenchymatous hemorrhages, but do not expect too much from it in bleeding from large arteries, and do not waste too much time over it, for time is blood—blood is life. The same is true of the common local remedies, vinegar, solution of alum, etc., which also contract the tisues and thus compress the vessels; they are very good for arresting capillary haemorrhages from the nose, but you must not expect any thing wonderful from them. The hot iron, ferrum candens, causticum actuale, acts by charring the ends of the vessels and the blood, and the escape of the blood is arrested by the resulting firm slough. You only need to hold a rod of iron with a wooden handle at one end, and at the other a small iron head heated to a white heat, close to the bleeding spot, to form a blfick crust instantly; indeed, the tissue occasionally blazes up even from the radiated heat. A red-hot iron pressed on the bleeding spot has the same effect, but is apt to cling to the resulting eschar and pull it off again. This iron rod (cautery iron) is usually heated to the proper degree in a furnace with bellows. Under some circumstances the hot iron may be very convenient for arresting hannorrhage; formerly, be-