TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 372 later the skin is dry and flabby. The urine is scanty, very concen- trated, and occasionally albuminous. As the disease progresses, the patient passes his urine and faeces in bed. Bed-sores over the sacrum occur early. The fever (as shown by the bodily temperature) at first rises high ; in acute pure septicaemia intercurrent chills never occur in the course of the disease, and initial chills are very rare. In the prog-nosis of septicaemia the conditions of the pulse and tongue are more important than the temperature. A small frequent pulse and dry tongue are bad signs ; while a normal temperature has no prognostic value, very high or very low temperature makes the prognosis worse. This is the usual course of acute pure septicaemia from recent in- juries; but the patient may die in the first stages, with rising tempera- ture. Cases also occur where the onset of the fever is scarcely marked by an elevation of temperature, and lastly some cases run their course without fever or with abnormally low temperature; the latter occurs especially in old persons with spontaneous gangrene; but the other symptoms above mentioned usually exist. From this and particularly from the above curve, we see that falling of the temperature of itself is by no means a sign of improvement, but that the other constitutional symptoms (strength, mental state, tongue, pulse, etc.) must also be taken into consideration.’" I hope that, from what has been said, you have formed a true idea of septicaemia. Where the symptoms of the disease are marked, the prognosis is very bad; we shall speak of the treatment at the end of ■this section. We now come to the ])ost-mortem apx>earances. Occasionally it is difficult for us to recoirnize on the cadaver the oedematous infiltration and brownish discoloration of the skin that we observed about the wound during life. In other cases that had a long course (six to eight days) we find the subcutaneous tissue infiltrated witli bloody, serous fluid; where the course is still longer (two weeks or more) the disease shows itself mostly by extensive suppuration of the cellular tissue, vith more or less extensive gangrene of the skin. Frequently the in- ternal organs present no morbid appearances. If there was continued profuse diarrhoea during life, you find swelling of the solitary and conglobate intestinal follicles. The spleen is often enlarged and softened, rarely it is of a normal size and firmness; the liver is usually full of blood, relaxed, and very friable, but without firrlher chajige. In the heart the blood is lumpy, half-clotted, tarry, and rarely firmly coagulated, bully; in most cases the lungs arc normal. Sometimes we find diffuse single or double pleurisy of moderate extent, and also traces of pericarditis. Under p^-a^mia we shall speak more fully of these (lilfuse metastatic inflammations which are not due to emboli