OPEN FRACTURES AND SUPPURATION OF BONE. 218 movable ; after a few attemj^ts one blade of the forceps may be intrtv duced under it and we lift olf a thin plate of bone, under which we find luxuriant granulations; the under sm-face of this plate is very rough, as if eaten away. Now healing goes on rapidly. It is often long before the cicatrix becomes permanent and solid enough to re- sist all injuries, such as pressure and friction, but healing often termi- nates favorably. This is the process that we term necrosis superfi- cialis or exfoliation of bone. We are already acquainted with this process in the soft parts; during the first week large shreds of tissue fall from the contused wound, since on the border of the healthy tis- sue there is an interstitial development of granulation, by Avhich the tissue is detached; the process is the same here. In a bone deprived of its lime we may readily examine these processes anatomically. Tlie inflammatory neoplasia, or granulation tissue, develops on the mar- gin of the healthy bone in the Haversian canals. The accompanying figure (Fig. 55) may represent to you the details of this process. If you have full}' understood what has been said, it only requires a slight stretch of imagination to see how the same process of detach- ment of a fragment may extend through the entire thickness of bone; that is, how (and here we come back to complicated fractures) a vari- able length of the fractured end of a bone may be entirely detached, when it is incapable of living. When the bone in question is thick, this process requires sev- eral months; but at last we may find even large jaieces of bone movable in the wound, and remove them as we would a su- perficial bony plate. As regards splinters entirely detached from the bone, and only attached to the soft parts, their future fate, as regards living or not, depends on how far their circulation is preserved. If they are not capable of living, they at last become entirely detach- ed by suppuration of the soft parts attached to them, and of- ten, as foreign bodies, keep up irritation and suppuration of the wound. If they are capable of living, they produce granula- C-... Diagram of detachment of a necrosed portion of bone. Mnfiniaed yOO. a, necrosed oorlion of bone; 6, living bone; c, new formation in llie llavorHiiin canalp, by which Ihc boiie is ile« tached. Compare Fi\;. 30.