683 CAKCINOMATA. and from wliicli they draw their nourishment, are most inthnately connected. Many observations show certainly that the cellular infil- tration of the connective-tissue base causes an increased proliferation of the superjacent epithelium; so it would not be difficult to suppose that the first impulse to the atjrpic adenoid proliferation was due to an irritative state of the epithelial base. But it is just as possible and probable that the epithelial proliferation is, as we usually con- sider it, the first formative process in the development of carcinoma. There can be no direct observation on this point; the connective- tissue infiltration is always there as soon as the epithelial prolifera- tion ; this so much impedes investigation of the first stage, that a choice of very favorable objects (such as flat cancer of the skin) alone will give any evidence in favor of our view, while the study of more difficult objects (as infiltrated lymphatic glands) in which, during life, the most varied cells are mixed up, will find plenty of support for Virchow's view (which I formerly held), according to which epi- thelial cells may result from proliferation of connective-tissue cells.^’^ It is especially important, anatomically, to make a distinction be- tween adenoma and carcinoma, as the two forms of tumors have some points in common. Pure adenomata are composed of newly-formed gland-substance which is entirely analogous to or at least very much like the normal; the connective tissue around the newly-formed acini has the same relation to them as to the normal. In adeno-sarcoma there is little if any new formation of glandular acini, but the sarcoma merely encloses the glandular spaces which have remained normal, or are dilated. But it is characteristic of car- cinoma that the epithelial covering of a skin or mucous membrane, or the epithelial lining of glandular cavities, grows into the skin, and even deeper, in the form of roundish nodules (acinous), or of round cylinders or rollers (tubular), just as occurs in the foetus. While so doing, the epithelial cells usually preserve their form, only they often grow much larger than normal. The form of the glands from which these formations proceed generally remains typical for the neoplasm also; but it remains in irregular forms of glands, it is only rarely that cavities are formed, and that actual secretion goes on in these cavities. Besides the epithelial jiarts of these tumors, the connective tissue, bones, muscles, etc., into which the epithelium enters, conduct them- selves as follows: AVe sometimes find them of normal, again of abnor- mal firmness, sometimes very soft, almost mucous, ordinarily in less quantity than the epithelial masses. It is usually pervaded bj"^ small, round (lymph) cells, often to such an extent that scarcely any fibrous tissue is left; generally the infiltrated small cellular elements arc scat- tered diffusely in the cancerous (connective-tissue) framework; very