INFLAMMATION OP CONTUSED WOUNDS. 171 We shall at once study this peculiar phenomenon more attentively. Formerly the chill was always regarded as essentially dependent on blood-poisoning; if we now regard fever generally as due to intoxi- cation, we must seek some special cause for the chill. Observation shows that the chill, which is always followed by fever and sweating, is always accompanied by rapid elevation of temperature. If we ther- mometrically examine the temperature of the blood of a patient with chill, we find it high and rapidly increasing, while the skin feels cool; the blood is driven from the cutaneous vessels to the internal organs. As already remarked, Trauba considers this as the cause of the ab- normal febrile elevation of temperature. We shall not discuss this at present; at all events, there is so great a dilference between the air and the bodily temperature that the patient feels chilled. If we un- cover a patient with fever, who lies wrapped up in bed and does not feel chilly, he at once begins to shiver. Man has a sort of conscious feeling for the state of equilibrium in which his bodily temperature stands to the surrounding air; if the latter be rapidly warmed, he at once feels warmer, if it be rapidly cooled, he at once feels cool, chill}^ This trivial fact leads us to another observation. This sensitiveness for warmth and cold, this conscious feeling of change of temperatm-e, varies with the individual; it may also be increased or blunted by the mode of life; some persons are always warm, others ever too cold, while for others the temperature of the air is comparatively a matter of indifference. The nervous system has much to do with this. Ac- curate studies of Trauhe and Jochmann have in fact shown that the nervous excitability of an individual has a great effect as to whether, in a rapid elevation of temperature of the blood, the change will be much perceived or not; hence that in torpid persons, in comatose condi- tions, chills do not so readily occur with fever, as they do in irritable persons already debilitated by long illness. I can only confirm this from my own observation. Although I have a general idea that, where there is sufficient irritability, rapid elevation of temperature and chill chiefly occur when a quantity of i^yrogenous material enters tlie blood at once, still I cannot deny that the quality of the material is also important. We know nothing of this quality chemically, but we may conclude that it has varieties, because both the fever-symp- toms and their duration often vary greatly, and that this does not solely depend on the peculiarities of the jaatient. According to my observations, in man reabsorption of pus and recent products of in- flammation is more apt to induce chills than is absorption of putriil matter, which is perhaps more poisonous and dangerous. I do not wish to weary you with too many of these considerations, and so shall return to the subject in the section on general accidental trail-