PREPARATIONS SHOWING HEALING OF WOUNDS. 81 the wound to an intense, progressing inflammation over the entire aflected portion of the body is only one of degree. Custom has here made a distinction; when a wound heals without any symptoms of so-called reaction we do not call it inflammation of the wound, but only apply this term when the symptoms of inflammation are very j)rominent at the part injured. I deemed it necessary to speak to you of these general consider- ations on inflammation, so that you might early learn some of the difficulties of the subject. In these lectures it will always be my ob- ject to explain to you, as clearly as is now possible, the anatomico- physiological disturbances, and at the same time to show you histo- logically the origin of the clinical descriptions and expressions now in use. This is the only way we can truly ground our knowledge ; without understanding this you would always be feeling around the outside of symptoms, and by clinging to certain ones fall into in- curable dogmatism, which in a country doctor the world calls “ nar- row-mindedness,” in the eminent city physician “infallibility.” As the great majority of men are stupid in physical matters, you are sure even with the latter peculiarities of attaining great practical success, but you must then renounce all idea of appreciating or ad- vancing the progress and development of society. It is not the object of these lectures to show you on preparations, step by step, the morphological microscopical changes in wounded tissue— you will see these, in the practical lesson^ on pathological histology— but I will show you a few points, so that you may not think that the pro- cesses of which I have spoken can only be demonstrated on diagrams. The cell-infiltration of tissue, after irritation by an incision, is best seen in the cornea. Four days ago I made an incision, with a lance- shaped knife, in the cornea of a rabbit; yesterday the incision was visible as a fine line with milky cloudiness. I killed the animal care- fully, cut out the cornea, and let it swell in pyroligneous acid, till this morning; then made a section through the wound, and cleared it up with glycerine. Now, at a a (Fig. 8), you may see the connecting substances be- tween the edges of the wound, in which there has been a considerable collection of cells, between the lamellre of the cornea, where the cor- neal corpuscles lie. These cells are not so evident in the method em- ployed as in that where carmine is used, still the intermediate sub- stance between the edges of the wound is very distinct. As you see, it consists almost entirely of cells; the cells alone would not, however, render the union sufficiently firm, if they were not glued together by a fibrinous cement. The young cells probably come out of the edges of the wound from the fissures between the corneal lamellte, and prob- ably do not originate in the connective substance between the ed^es