TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 350 nor denied. According’ to my idea, the connection is probably only indirect: toxic-miasmatic infection of a wound, whether induced bv instruments, dressings, or otherwise, as previously stated, excites acute suppurative inflammations around tlie wound, sometimes as ordinary cellular inflammation, sometimes as diffuse lymphangitis, etc.; thrombi from compression are caused by these inflammations, just as happens in acute phlegmonous inflammation outside of the hospital; hence the influence of miasmatic poisoning in inducing venous thrombosis is not direct, but indirect, acting through the inflammation. The next question is, What becomes of the blood coagulated in the vessels, and what is its relation to the wall of the vessel ? From the injuries of arteries and veins, we are only acquainted with one meta- morphosis of the thrombus, namely, its organization to connective tissue. In extensive venous thrombi this is a great rarity, and leads of course to complete obliteration of the vein. Let us take a very simple case, a venesection thrombus. After a bleeding, say from the median vein, from an acute inflammation of the cellular tissue there is a coagulation of blood in this vein, and also in the cephalic and basilic veins, down to the wrist and up to the axilla. From the disturbance of the circulation thus caused, there is great oedema of the whole arm ; wdien this subsides, we may distinctly feel the subcutaneous veins as hard cords. The course may vary: first, the affection may possibly end in resolution—under timely treatment this is usual; the patient should be kept in bed, as he is usually feverish ; the arm should be kept absolutely quiet, and covered with a compress thickly coated with mercurial ointment. At the same time we give a purgative, and, if the tongue be coated, an emetic. Under this treatment, the swell- ing of the arm usually decreases, and the fever subsides. Then the firm venous cords can be plainly felt; in six or eight days they become softer, and finally cease to be perceptible. We very rarely have tlie chance to examine such cases anatomically in the early stages. Hence, we cannot decide to what extent, if at all, the walls of the vein parti- cipate in this coagulation of the blood ; but, from the sympioms and the examination of the patient, it would appear that the fibrine coagu- lated in the vessels is gradually reabsorbed and mingles with the blood without injury, like other blood that has been diffusely extrava- sated in the tissue. The second termination of inflammation of the arm after venesection, complicating thrombosis, is the formation of abscess. The first sjTnptoms are those above described; but then, either in the bend of the elbow, the arm, or the forearm, a more circumscribed inflammatory tumor forms; this increases gradually, and finally fluctuates distinctly. On incision, pus is evacuated from a larger or smaller cavity, the swelling of the arm then graduallv de-