243 DISLOCATIONS. As inducing causes for dislocations, we have external applications of force and muscular action ; the latter are rare, but cases have been observed Avhere dislocations were caused, in epileiAics, for instance, by muscular contractions. As in fractures, the external causes are divided into direct and indirect. For instance, if one gets a luxation by falling on the shoulder, it is due to direct force; the same luxation might occur indirectly by a person with outstretched arm falling on the hand and elbow. Whether a dislocation or a fracture will result, depends chiefly on the position of the joint and the nature of the cause; but much also depends on whether the bones or the articular ligaments give way the more readily ; for instance, by the same manoeu- vre on different dead bodies we may sometimes cause fracture, some- times dislocation.' As in fractures, there are numerous symptoms of luxation, of wliich some may be very noticeable, and are the more so the sooner we see the case, and the less the displacement of the ar- ticular ends is hidden by inflammatory swelling of the superjacent soft parts. The altered form of the joint is one of the most important and striking symptoms, but which only leads quickly and certainly to a diagnosis when the eye has been accustomed to readily recognize differences from the normal form. Correct measurement with the eye, accurate knowledge of the normal form, in short, some taste for sculp- ture and sculptural anatomy, so-called artistic anaton/y, are here very useful. If there is very slight change of form, even the most prac- tised will not be able to dispense with a comparison M'ith the opposite side, and hence I earnestly urge you, if you would avoid error, always to expose the uj^per or lower half of the body, as the case may be, and to compare the two sides. You may best follow with the eye the direction of the apparently displaced bone, and if this line does not strike the articular cavity accurately, there will most probably be a dislocation, if there be not a fracture, close below the articulating head of, the bone, which must be determined by manual examination. The lengthening or shortening of a limb, its position to the trunk, the distance of certain prominent points of the skeleton from each other, often aid us in making at least a probable diagnosis very quickly. Another symptom perceptible to the sight is ecchymosis of the soft parts, or suggillation. This is rarely distinct at first, because the blood, escaping from the torn capsule only gradually, perhaps not for several days, rises near the skin and becomes visible; in some cases the effusion of blood is so inconsiderable that it is not perceived. I The symptoms given by the patient are, pain and inability to move the j limb normally. The pain is never so great as in fractures, and only appears on attempting to move the limb. In some cases, patients . with luxations may perform some motions with the limb, but only in