682 TUMORS. difficulties just enumerated. Now, anatomy alone decides what is to be called cancer. In the clinic we then have to investigate how can- cers of different formations and compositions usually conduct them- selves : if they be infectious or not; whether they run their course slowly or rapidly; if they are usually solitary or m.ultiple; where most frequent, and how they are most successfully treated. Most modern pathologists agree in calling only those tumors true carci- nomata which have a formation similar to that of true epithelial glands (not the lymphatic glands), and whose cells are mostly actual derivatives from true epithelium. I am convinced that this view will constantly have more adherents, and that thus the differences about the anatomical definition of “ carcinoma ” will constantly diminish. Those investigators who, during the last few years, with all the mod- em aids, have worked without prejudice on this portion of the study of tumors, recognize the great importance of epithelial proliferation in those tumors that we call cancer, still most of them seek for a compromise between the different histogenetic views, and wish stiff to admit, in a modified form, the development of true glandular and epithelial cells from connective tissue (heterology proper) {JRind- fleisch, VolJcmann, Klehs, JLUcJce) ; only Thiersch, and recently Wair deyer, maintain, as I do, the strict boundary between epithelial and connective-tissue cells. IValdeyer defines carcinoma as an at}qiical epithelial neoplasm. But we must here state that in cancer-tumors, besides the epitheliums, there are usually numerous young, small round cells which, infiltrated in the connective-tissue portion of the tumor, form an important part of it. This small-celled connective-tissue in- filtration, which exists in varying quantities wherever epithelial pro- liferations grow into the tissue, appears to be caused by a sort of re- action, and to be the result of the penetration of the epithelial new formations into the tissue, according to the number of infiltrated cells and their future fate, as well as the degree of vascularity, just as in inflammation it sometimes leads to softening, to atrophy, and cicatri- cial thickening of the tissue. In some cases this small-celled infiltra- tion is so considerable as almost entirely to hide the epithelial new formation (from which it may be very difficult to distinguish, if the latter be small). We may then be in doubt if it should not be re- garded as entirely independent, and occasionally, perhaps, as the sole constituent of cancerous tumors. Formerl3’’ I myself thought it neces- sary to agree to this, and even supposed that this component of car- cinoma possessed a spontaneous power of infection ; but further ob- servations witli new aids hav'e made it appear to me more jirobable that, even in the smallest cancerous nodules, epithelial elements are proliferating. The epithelial cells, and the base on which they grow