678 TUMORS. in litcrfituiG. Soin6 of tliciii refill rapidly, otliers iriore slowly, after puncture; such cysts have been observed in the axilla, on the thorax and neck. Excluding those cases where effusions of blood have given a dark blood-color to the mucous of serous contents of a cyst, and considering only those in which there is blood alone in the cysts, they could scarcely have been any thing but large sacs on the veins or cavernous-venous tumors Avhose framework had been entirely atrophied. All the cases of this kind so far reported have been cured by puncture and injection with iodine, so that nothing can be said of the pathological anatomy. The diagnosis of cystic tumor is easy; if it can be certainly pal- pated, the fluctuation will be felt; deeply-seated cysts are often diffi- cult to recognize. They may be mistaken for other encapsulated fluids ; an exploratory puncture with a very fine trocar is admissible to confirm the diagnosis, if this be necessary to determine the treat- ment. There are various things for which a cyst may be mistaken; e. g., cold abscesses are also painless, occasionally very slowly enlar- ging, fluctuating tumors ; also cystic parasites, of which two varieties occur in the outer parts of the body, especially in the subcutaneous tissue; cysticercus cellulosm and echinococcus hoininis, although rare, do occur in the cellular tissue (and still more rarely in bone); the former is a small, the latter a large vesicle, which may contain many smaller ones; the vesicle of which the animal consists always has a neo- plastic sac around it; as may be readily seen, the whole thing gives the imjiression of a cystic tumor. I have seen cysticercus vesicles removed from the tongue and nose, echinococcus vesicles removed from the back and thigh. The diagnosis of cysts was made in all the cases except in one of the latter where abscess was diagnosed, and in fact, instead of the customary encapsulation, there was suppuration around the dead echinococcus vesicle. I have introduced this as a sort of appendix, because Ave have nowhere else an opportunity of considering the parasites. The millions of trichinm occasionally scattered through the muscles cannot be treated surgically, even AA'hen, according to the brilliant investigations of ZenJeer, the diagno- sis may be, and has been, made in many cases. Dropsies of the sub- cutaneous-mucous bursm and of the tendinous sheaths as well as spina bifida may also be readily mistaken for cystic tumors, if Ave do not attend to the anatomical seat of these SAvellings. Cj'stomata may also be mistaken for other gelatinous soft sarcomata and carcinomata, and for very soft fatty tumors. As stated, Avhen an intention of oper- ating renders a certain diagnosis necessary, Ave make an exjAloratory puncture. But Avhat guides us chiefly, in the diagnosis, is the expe- rience about the relative frequence of different tumors on different