10 INTRODUCTION. casionally operating, or even of amputating, under my direction. It gives courage in practice, if one has during student-life performed oj> erations on the living subject. When you have followed the lectures on general surgery, you may enter the surgical clinic, and there, in the seventh and eighth semestres, openly give an account of your knowledge in special cases, and accustom yourselves to collecting your ideas rapidly, learn to distinguish the important from the unim- portant, and to learn generally in what praetice really consists. You will thus learn the points where your knowledge is deficient, and may perfect yourselves by perseveiing study. When you have thus com- pleted the legal time of your studies, passed your examination, and have increased your medical knowledge by a few months or a year in various large hospitals at home or abroad, you will be in condition to appreciate the surgical cases turning up in practice. But, if you wish to devote special attention to surgery and operating, you are still far from the goal: then you must become accustomed to operating on the cadaver, enter a surgical ward as assistant for a year or two, un- tiringly study monograjjhs on surgical subjects, perseveringly write out cases, etc.—in short, follow out the practical school from the lowest step. You must be fully acquainted with hospital sernce, even with the duties of the nurses; in short, you should know practically even the most minute things appertaining to the care of patients, and should even perform the duties yourselves occasionally, so that you may be fully master of the entire medical service intrusted to you. You see there is much to do and to learn : with patience and perse- verance you will accomplish it all; but these virtues are necessary to the study of medicine. “ Student ” comes from “ to study; ” hence you must study faith- fully ; the teacher indicates to you what he considers the most impor- tant ; he may stimulate you in various directions; what he gives you as positive may, it is true, be carried home in black and white, but, to cause this positive knowledge to live in you and become your mental property, you must depend on your own mental efforts, which form the true “ study.” When you conduct yourself as a passive receptacle, you ma}’, it is true, acquire the name of a very “ learned person,” but, if you do not awake your knowledge into life, you will never become a good “ practising physician.” Let what you see enter your mind fully, warm you up, and so occupy your attention that you must think of it frequently, then the true pleasure and appreciation of this menUnl labor will fill you. GoetJie, in a letter to Schiller, aptly says : “ Pleas- ure, comfort, and interest in the affairs of life, are the only realities; all else is vanity and disappointment.”