GANGRENE. 336 borders of the healthy tissue with compresses or cliarpie, soaked in chlorine-water, and thus in moist gangrene I also diminish the bad smell of the decomposing substances. For the same purpose, we may use creosote-water or carbolic acid, or dilute purified pyroligneous acid, very strong alcohol, spirits of camphor, or oil of turpentine. Cliarcoal-powder absorbs the gases from the decomposing substances, but, as it soils the parts very much, it is perhaps too little used. Other powerful antiseptics are acetate of alumina (alum 3 v, plumbum aceti- cum, 3 j, aqua, lb 1), and coal-tar with plaster; both remedies are very serviceable, but, like all similar ones, must be freshly applied several times daily to remove entirely the smell of the decomposing parts. Of late, permanganate of potash (gr. x to 3 i water) has been greatly pi'aised as a local antiseptic and disinfectant; 1 have made several trials of it, but have found it far inferior to the remedies pre- viously mentioned. Concentrated solutions of carbolic acid in olive- oil (say 3 ij to ft) 1) cause symptoms of poisoning (olive-green urine), hence they should be used carefully. As soon as the gangrenous mass has become somewdiat detached, the shreds should be removed with the scissors, without cutting into the healthy parts ; this is par- ticularly important in gangrene of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which is often extensive, as after infiltration of urine; at the same time the local antiseiatics should be continued till healthy granulations arise. Led by the anatomical conditions in spontaneous gangrene, it has been advised to break up the coagulation of blood, by stroking and rubbing the limb; from the pain and swelling of the parts, this is rarely practicable ; in cases where I have had it done, it has had no effect on the progress of the gangrene. If the gangrene affect a limb, as in the various forms of sponta- neous and senile gangrene, I strongly urge you not to do any opera- tion till the line of demarcation is distinct. If there be merely gan- grene of single toes, leave their detachment to Nature; if the whole foot or leg be affected, do the amputation so that it may be merely an aid to the normal process of detachment, i. e., on the borders of the healthy parts you try to dissect up only enough skin to cover the stump, and saw the bone as near as practicable to the line of demar- cation. Thus you will occasionally succeed in avoiding a new out- break of the gangrene, and in saving your patient’s life. If the pafient dies before a distinct line of demarcation lias formed (as is frequently the case), you need not reproach yourself for having neglected am- putation, for you may rest assured that the patient would have died even sooner if amputation had been performed. The prognosis in gangrene from internal causes (as the older surgeons termed it) is generally bad.