99 HEALING BY FIRST AND SECOND INTENTION. LECTURE IX. Combination ot’Healin" by First and Second Intention.—Union of Granulation Surfaces. Healing under a Scab.—Granulation Diseases.—The Cicatri.x in various Tissues; in Muscle; in Nerve; its knobby Proliferation ; in Vessels.—Organization of the Thrombus.—Arterial collateral Circulation. To-day I have first simply to add a few words about certain de- viations from the ordinary course of healing, wliicli occur so fre- quently that they must very often be counted as normal; at all events, as very frequent. It is not at all unfrequent for the two forms of healing above de- scribed, by first and second intention, to combine in the same wound. For instance, you unite a wound completely, and may sometimes ob- serve that at some places there is healing by the first intention, while at others, after removal of the sutures, the wound gapes, and subse- quently heals by suppuration. But it is much more common for a large and deep wound to heal superficially, and to suppurate for some time from the deeper part. If the entire surface of the wound be healthy, the cause of the in- complete healing is either that it was imperfectly coapted at the first dressing, or that blood and exudation escaped between the edges, which not only do not coagulate firmly enough to keep up the adhesion, but can even decoraioose and set up an inflammation which may spread rapidly and cause severe general disturbances. These important results of such wounds compel us specially to study their meclianical conditions and chemical changes ; from the first they are more or less complete fistulous wounds. It may be readily seen that where the skin has been divided, as for the removal of a deeply-situated tumor or a portion of diseased bone, a cavity is left if the skin is sewed up, which will remain filled with air and blood, unless the bleeding has been completely arre.sted, the wound well cleansed, and its edges brought well in contact. In cases where different tissues are wounded, and contract unequally, as in a wound going down to the bone, the surfaces would be very uneven and not be accurately apposed if the edges of the skin were simply united. Experience teaches that in such cases large wounded surfaces, even if loosely approximated, may be readily separated by secondary limmorrhages or fluid exudations, which often decompose while the skin above them is completely united. Then the parts around the wound swell and become painful, and high fever comes on. I will not here describe those dangerous states, septic phleg- mon and blood-poisoning, which may arise, but merely say that we