521 TREATMENT. mostly successful, but few patients will be cured. The same is true of most great operations ; if one has some experience, and does not hesitate to send most cases away uncured, interesting himself only in the favorable cases, he may soon attain the reputation of a very fortunate operator. Many eminent surgeons deceive themselves in this way. Now we come to the wrist-joint; here resection usually consists in the removal of all the bones, and sawing off the lower surfaces of the radius, perhaps also those of the ossa metacarpi. I have performed this operation several times, occasionally with brilliant results, the hand becoming perfectlj"^ movable and the fingers useful; two of the pa- tients were seamstresses, and were able to resume their occupation, the third and fourth unfortunately lost patience ; after the operation, when the wound had closed except two fistulm, and the pain had ceased, they stopped treatment; there were. still some carious spots in the metacarpal bones which should have been extirpated, Avhen the result would certainly have been as good as it was in the previous cases. I should have liked to resect the hand more frequentlj^ but several times have submitted to the patient’s special request to am- putate the forearm. It must seem strange that a patient does not readily consent, when the surgeon proposes, by a tolerably safe opera- tion, such as resection of the wrist, to preserve the hand; I always felt obliged to say that it would be several months before the wound healed, so that the patients should not expect too much; they reialied thal it was too long a time, they had not used the hand for four, five, and eight years, and it always pained them; they were tired of treat- ment, and had decided to lose the hand, so they would not again un- dertake a long course of treatment. I have told you this tliat you may see what obstacles the surgeon runs against when he honestl}'" tries to do the best. All the cases of caries of the wrist are by no means suited for resection; we never decide on an operation before there is extensive destruction of the bones, although we know tliat caries of the wrist very rarely spontaneously recovers with movable joint. Caries of the wrist is not frequent as compared with that of the knee and hip, and is particularly rare in children, being more fre- quent in adults. The cause of the dilficulty of recovery is partly due to local conditions which we have previously described. Besides this, there are about the liand so many tendons, most of whose sheaths par- ticipate in the disease ; the fingers are stiffly extended, the metaearpal bones, radius, and ulna, are also frequently diseased, though they mav be only affected with periostitis. The other soft parts about tlm hand, especially the skin, are perforated by numerous fistuhe, or even extensively destroyed, so that the most favorable circumstances for