726 AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. 1. In the ciTCulciv opcTCLtioii we make a circular incision around the limb, strongly retract the divided soft parts, and saw through the bone; then, letting go the soft parts, they fall over the end of the bone. To obtain this end most certainly it is well to proceed as follows : First divide the skin entirely around the limb, then dissect it up, leaving as much as possible of the cellular tissue with it, and leaving the. muscular fascia on the muscles. When the skin has been dissected up from two to four centimetres, turn it back like a cuff, and let an assistant strongly retract it with the other soft parts; then cut through the muscles down to the bone with a circular sweep of the knife, at the line where the skin is turned back ; the assistant then retracts all the divided parts as far as possible ; then with a third circular incision the deep layer of muscles is divided about two centimetres higher than the second cut divided them, the periosteum is divided, and the bone sawed through. If now the parts be allowed to fall into place, three cut surfaces will appear— through the skin, through tlie muscles, and through the bone, the last at the bottom of a funnel-shaped wound. Where the limbs are thin, the soft parts should i-each about six centimetres below the end of the bone ; where thcv are muscular, this distance should be two or three centimetres more. In amputating the forearm or leg, the last incision must divide the interosseous muscles before the bone is sawed. It will be best for you to make the circular operation as I have just described it, and accustom yourself to make smooth incisions, and to cut by drawing the knife, not by pressing on it. At the same time, I do not mean to say that the circular operation may not be well done in other ways. Sometimes the following modifications are advisable ; they differ partly in the shaping of the stump, part- ly in the mode of operating: We may amputate a limb in one plane as if done with an axe or guillotine; this may be successfully done on the fingers. In the fingers we prefer exarticulation to amputation ; but sometimes fingers are thus cut off by machines, such as circular saws, straw- cutters, etc., and the question arises whether the stump will do well without surgical interference : it will do so, but this is merely on account of the anatomical peculiarities of the fingers, where the skin is adherent to the sheaths of the tendons and to I he bone, and does not retract, Avhile the tendons retract in the sheath. The cicatricial contraction is concentric, and draws the skin together to the centre of the divided bone, as we might draw a tobacco-pouch. At most other places in the limbs the skin is so movable on the fascia’, and the muscles on the bone, that after an amputation in one plane the