72 SIMPLI'] INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. Tlie following metamorphoses now gradually occur: tlie entire surface contracts more and more, becomes smaller; on the border, between skin and granulations, the secretion of pus diminishes; first, a dry, red border, about half a line broad, forms and advances toward the centre of the wound, and, as it progresses and traverses the granular surface, it is followed closely by a bluish-white border, which jjasses into nor- mal epidermis. These two seams result from the development of epidermis, which advances from the periphery toward the centre; cicatrization begins; the young cicatricial border advances half a line nr a line daily; finally, it covers the entire granulation surface. The young cicatrix then looks quite red, and is thus sharply defined from the healthy skin; it feels firm, more so than the cutis, and is still very intimately connected with the subjacent parts. In the course of some months, it gradually grows paler, softer, more movable, and finally white; in the course of months and years, it grows still smaller, but often remains whiter than the cutis all through life. The strong: contraction in the cicatrix often causes traction on the neigh- boring parts, an effect that is occasionally desirable, but sometimes very unwelcome, as, for instance, when such a cicatrix on the cheek draws the lower eyelid down, causing ectropion. You Avill occasionally see it asserted that the cicatrization of a granulating surface may sometimes begin from several patches of epidermis forming in its midst. This is only true of cases where por- tions of cutis with rete Malpighii have remained in the midst of the wound, as may readily hapjsen in gangrenous wounds, as the caustic agent may penetrate unequally deep. Under such circumstances, epi- dermis again forms from some remaining portion of the papillary layer, that has the slightest possible covering of cells of the rete Mal- pighii ; at these points Ave liaA’-e the same circumstances as Avhen Ave have raised a vesicle on the skin by cantharides, inducing by the rapid exudation an elevation of the epidermis from the mucous layer of the skin ; this is followed by no granulations, if you do not continue to irritate the surface, but horny epidermis again forms at once over the mucous layer. But, if there be no such remnant of rete Malpighii, we never have these islands in the cicatrix, the formation of epidermis only takes place gradually, from the periphery of the Avound toward the centre. I believe this so firmly, that I think surgeons, Avho say they hav'e seen otherwise, must be mistaken in some way. The transplantation of epidermis after Meverdhi^s method also ap- pears to me to faA’or the vieAv that epithelium is only developed from epithelium. After having considered the external conditions of the AA'Ound, the development of granulations, of pus, and of the cicatri.x, Ave must