VARICES AND ANEURISMS, 584 more carefully with the microscope, especially in fine cross sections through spots of different appearance, we find that tlie first changes occur in the outer layers of the intima, on the holders of the media; here a moderate grouping of cells begins. The young cells may lead to connective tissue and new formation and callous thickening of tlie arterial wall; but they are usually short-lived; while new ones ap- pear in the periphery of the affected sjaot, the first ones disintegrate to a granular detritus, to a pulp formed of fine molecules and fat, which remains rather dry, as in caseous degeneration; the destruction thus slowly extends laterally, tlie nutrition of the media, as well as of the inner layers of the intima, suffers; the muscle-cells of the for- mer become granular and fatty, as do the elastic lamellfe of the in- tima ; the change thus progresses inward till the last lamellfe and the epithelial membrane are perforated, and the cavity filled with ath- eromatous pulp opens into the calibre of the artery. The atherom- atous process, beginning as a hollow ulcer, has led to an open ulcer with undermined edges; }'ou see the mechanism is the same that you have already seen in the skin and l}’mphatic glands; there is a chronic- inflammation ending in caseous degeneration, or, as the pulp is called in tliis position, in atheroma. This is the essential part of the pro- cess, as far as concerns the development of aneurism; but there are some variations, from the different structures of the arteries. The less developed the muscularis and intima, the less atheromatous pulp will be formed, as this results chiefly fi-om breaking down of the intima. To commence with the small arteries, whose diseases we may study in the microscopic cerebral arteries: here we find the col- lections of cells mostly in the adventitia, which is but little and only secondarily affected in large arteries. Almost the whole adventitia changes to cells, the few muscular cells atrophy, the fine hyaline membrane, which acts as intima, is very elastic ; thus the softening of the adventitia, caused by the cell-infiltration, soon induces dilatation and finally bursting of the artery, as the w'alls are no longer suffi- ciently firm to resist the pressure of the blood. Occasionally also there is a plastic production of adventitia; club-shaped vegetations form, which consist partly of newly-formed fibrous, partly mucous connective tissue. We cannot here discuss this further, especially as it does not affect surgery. A fatty degeneration and calcification of the muscular coat also occur along with the plastic infiltration of the adventitia in the smaller cerebral arteries, but are not frequent. I>ct us pass to arteries the size of the b.asilar, radial, etc. Here the plas- tic process in the adventitia occasionally still combines with those in the other coats, although pulpy disintegration and calcification of the latter do occur. Sometimes there are thickening and looping of these