CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. 432 siderable cicatrices not unfrequently remain ; tlie efl’ect of these rem- edies is rather uncertain, so that they are not often used. By fonticulus or a fontanel (from fons, well), we mean an inten- tionally-induced wound of the skin that is kept suppimating; it may be induced in various ways. You may apjily an ordinary blister- plaster, then cut the blister and daily dress the part denuded of ejn- derrnis with ointment of cantharides or other irritating salve. You will thus induce a suppuration that you may keep up as long as you continue this mode of dressing. Another way of making a fontanel is to incise the skin and place a number of peas in this incision, re- taining them in position by adhesive plaster. The peas swell uj3, and are to be daily renewed ; they irritate the wound as foreign bodies; a simple ulcer is thus artificially induced. It is always simplest to | make the fontanel with an incision, but we may bimn the skin thor- oughly Avith any caustic, and keep the resulting wound suppurating b}' the introduction of peas. The seton is a small strip of linen, or an ordinary lamp-wick, which is drawn under the skin by means of a peculiar needle. The seton- needle is a moderately-broad, rather long lancet with a large eye at its lower end, to carry the seton. Setons are generally applied to the back of the neck in the following manner : with the thumb and fore- finger of the left hand you lift as large a fold of skin as possible, trans- fix it at its base with the threaded seton-needle and draAv the latter through. After the seton has lain quiet a feAV days, and suppuration begins, pull it forward and cut off the j^art impregnated with pus; re- peat this daily. Granulations form in the vdiole canal occupied by the seton ; these secrete quantities of pus. The seton is worn for weeks or months, and removed when we wish the suppuration to cease. Another mode of inducing continued suppuration is by malcing a slough in the skin by means of heat and preventing the resulting granu- lating wound from healing by irritating dressings or by introducing peas; this may be kept up a longer or shorter time, according to the effect desired. For this purpose there are two modes of operation, by the so-called moxa and by the hot iron. Moxte are thus prepared: a wad of cotton is tied together with silk thread, then soaked in spirits, held on the sldn with forceps and there burned. Various grades of , burn may be induced by the longer or shorter action. There are other modes of preparing moxre, which, however, I shall not here describe, ' as moxa? are now little used. If you wish to induce a slough in the * skin, it may be most simply done by strong caustics and causttc pastes, or by the hot iron. The cautery-irons used in surgery, already ^ mentioned among the hemostatic remedies, are thin iron rods a loot ;