CHONDROMATA, OSTEOMATA. 631 lial elements and connective-tissue framework may become gelatinous (mucous, colloid, myxomatous) in fibroma, chondroma, and sarcoma, as well as in adenoma and glandular cancer, we must always ob- serve very ^particularly what we have before us : frequently we shall be in doubt about the significance of the histological elements, as well as about the proper name. The only treatment is removal of the tumor, if it can be done without endangering life. Of course we would not interfere with the chondromata of the pelvis, which are usually very large ; those of the thigh, which are generally very large when the patient applies for treatment, can only be gotten rid of by exarticulation of the femur, • and Ave should scarcely do this before spontaneous fracture of the extremity, from disease of the bone, has rendered it useless. Chon- dromata of the fingers are most frequently subjects for operation, not because they are painful, for they are usually free from pain, but be- cause they impair the function; this takes place very slowly and gradually, hence the tumors will have attained a considerable size. So long as the patients can use their nodulated swollen fingers, they neither urge the operation, nor can we urgently adAUse them to sub- mit to it. As regards the mode of operation, in many cases AA'here the tumor, even if firmly adherent to the bone, is seated laterally, it Avould be natural to try diAdding the skin, and pushing it and the tendons to one side, then remoAung the tumor with the knife or saAV. But this is rarely practicable, if we would remove the entire tumor, which is imperatively necessary ; for often the cartilaginous mass en- tirely pervades the medullary cavity of the bone. Moreover, after such an operation, there may be severe inflammation of the sheath of the tendon, as a result of Avhich the finger may remain stiflF. There have not been enough careful observations to verify DieffenhacKs assertion, that any remnants of the chondroma that may be left ossify and become stable; hence the removal of chondroma from bone should be limited to few cases, and to those Avhere the tumor is still small. If the tumors have attained a considerable size, Ave postpone exarticulation of the fingers to a time when the tumors shall have rendered the hand entirely useless. 4. OSTEOMATA—EXOSTOSES. By this term Ave designate abnormally-formed masses of bone, AA’hich are circumscribed, and have an independent groA\d;h, not de- pending on a chronic inflammation. Formation of bone also occurs occasionally in other tumors, especially in those forming in bone, as