441 CALLOUS ULCERS. Baynton dressing of adhesive plaster is of great service m ulcers oi the leg, especially for those cases where the patients are not inclined to lie still, but must attend to their business. In the surgical poli- clinic of Berlin I made some observations on this treatment of ulcers of the leg, but cannot report so favorably on it, as a means of cure., as has been done by other surgeons—they seem to claim that this dressing is an almost universal remedy in ulcers of the leg. I prize it greatly as a protective dressing in dispensary practice, because it enables the patient to go about, mthout the ulcer spreading; but I cannot see that all ulcers heal particularly Avell under this dressing, or that the action of the adhesive plaster on the callous borders of the ulcer is more effective than the remedies which I shall mention after a while. The best remedy for keeping up constant congestion in the ulcer, and thus increasing the formation of vessels and cells, is moist warmth, which you may use in the form of cataplasms, or, still better, as a continued warm-water bath. I would particularly recommend the latter to you, for by it you at the same time obtain an artificial swelling and softening of the dry, hardened borders of the ulcer. Zeis, who has often em^aloyed the warm-water bath in callous ulcers of the leg, also recommends this treatment as one of the most effi- cacious in such cases. It is sometimes very important to destroy the callous edges entirely, or to excite in them a high degree of purulent inflammation. The former you may most quickly accomplish by the hot iron, the latter by repeated application of tartar-emetic ointment or emplastrum cantharidis. If a pustulous or even gangrenous inflam- mation of the ulcer and its vicinity be induced by the latter reme- dies, place the foot in a water-bath and you will often obtain a very quick cure. It is not always possible to obtain healing of a callous ulcer of the leg; and ulcers along the anterior face of the leg, extending to the periosteum of the tibia, are especially intractable ; those ulcers also which surround the leg like a ring are usually reckoned as incurable ; they are considered as indications for amputation when tliey perma- nently prevent the patient from walking or attending to his business. Besides the above-mentioned circumstances there is still another, that impedes the healing of ulcers with greatly-indurated borders, that is tliat the healing granulating surface and cicatrix do not diminish and tliicken by contraction, because the firmness of the surrounding por- tions of skin permits no displacement; while, as you know, all granu- lating wounds decrease to about half their size by contraction, and lienee the cicatizing surface grows smaller, in many cases the granu- lating surface of these ulcers must cicatrize throughout its entire ori- ginal extent, because it cannot contract. To render this contraction