Ol’E-V FRACTURES AND SCI'l’URATION OF BONE. 212 limb, and injures bone and skin, the whole extremity may be greatly shaken; but the ex'tent of the injury is not great, and most of such Ciises terminate favorably under suitable treatment. The question- able cases lie between these two extremes. In cases where there is some contusion, but only a slight amount evident, and the skin is only injured at a small spot, it will be very difficult to decide whether healing should be attempted or amputation be resorted to, and the peculiarity of the individual case alone can settle the question. Of late the tendency is increasing rather to try to preserve the limb in these doubtful cases than to amputate one that might possibly have been saved. This principle is certainly justified on humane grounds; but it cannot be denied that this conservative surgery may be prac- tised at the cost of life, and that we cannot with impunity vary too much from the principles of the older surgeons, who generally pre- ferred amputation in these doubtful cases. Besides mode of origin of the injury, and the amount of accompanying contusion, the im^jor- tance in any given case depends on whether we have to deal with deep wounds, with fractured bones lying far down among the muscles, or with bones lying near the skin, as the danger of suppuration de- pends greatly on the depth and extent of the bone-injury. Thus, an open fracture at the anterior part of the leg is of more favorable prognosis than a similar injury of the arm or forearm. Open fractures of the thigh are the most unfavorable; indeed, some surgeons ahvays amputate for such injuries. Large nerve-trunks are rarely torn in fractures, and, when they are, it does not seem to have much effect on the cure; and experiments on animals, as well as observations on man, show that bones may unite normally in paralyzed limbs. Injury of large venous trunks, as of the femoral vein, causes h.-emorrhage, which may be readily checked by a compressing-bandage, it is true, but may prove dangerous when the blood effused between the muscles and under the skin begins to decompose. Rupture of the arterial trunk of a limb occasionally leads at once to considerable arterial hajmorrhages; but this is not a necessary sequence; for, as previously shown, a thrombus quickly forms in the crushed artery, so that we do not always have extensive hmmorrhage. But, if, from the nature of the haemorrhage, we recognize the rupture of an artery, according to principles already laid down, we should either attempt to ligate the artery at the wound, or else at the point of election. Rupture of tlie femoral artery with fracture of the femur is found by experience to be followed by gangrene, and is an imperative indication for ampu- tation ; in a corresponding injury of tlie arm, recovery may result or gangrene may follow. In fractures of the forearm or leg, even if one or both arteries be ruptured, recovery may take place. Lastly,