620 TUMORS. to one part of the body, as a swelling without distinct boundaries (diflFuse lipoma). The seat of lipoma is most frequently in the subcu- taneous cellular tissue, especially of the trunk; these tumors are most frequent on the back and abdominal walls; they are rarer on the ex- tremities ; in the synovial folds and tufts of tlie joints, as well as in the sheaths of the tendons, there may be an abnormal development of fat, so that the fatty masses may seem branched like a tree (lipo- ma arborescens, Jf. 3I'iUler); this is an analogy to the fatty prolifera- tion in the processes of the peritonmura of the colon (appendices epiploicas) and other serous membranes, but it is exceedingly rare. The groAvth of lipoma is always very slow, its development is hardly ever accompanied by pain, unless it comes close to a nerv^e and presses on it, which rarely happens. Fatty tumors may attain a great size; the patients, being little troubled by them, rarely feel obhged to have them removed early. Hence lipomata grow to enormous tumors ; recently I removed one from the back of a woman ; it began under the right scapula and reached down to the calves ; above, at its base, it was the same circumference as the larger part of the patient’s thigh, below it was almost twice as large. Secondary changes in these tu- mors are not very frequent, but the thick connective-tissue partitions in the tumor may calcify, or even ossify, and at the same time the fatty tissue may change to an oily or emulsion-like fluid. The skin covering the tumor is gradually expanded, and at first is usually much thickened, and occasionally colored brown, but generally remains movable over the tumor; exceptionally there is an intimate adhesion with the newly- formed fat, and then a superficial ulceration of the cutis, which in such cases is entirely atrophied ; this ulceration, which may be induced by external irritation, rarely goes deep, although parts of the fatty tissue may become gangrenous; under such circumstances there are almost always formed ulcers with slightly-developed granulations and serous, badly-smelling secretions. Combinations of lipoma with soft fibroma, with myxomatous sarcoma, and with lymphoma, do occur, although rarely. In lipoma I have several times seen considerable cavernous dilatation of the veins. A disposition to the development of lipoma most frequently exists at the time of life when the tendency to development of fat gcnerallj' is greatest, between the thirtieth and fiftieth years; in children it is very rare, still it occurs congenitally on the back, neck, face, as well as on the toes, with coincident hypertrophy of the bones (giant growth); they grow little after birth. Usually there is only one lijTOina, and it grows very slowly; indeed, it may remain at one point, especially in old persons. In the subcutaneous cellular tissue, development of multiple lipema has been frequently seen; cases have been luiled