245 REDTTCTIOX OF DISLOCATIONS. not, always remain at tlie point where it escapes from the nipturecl capsule, but in many cases it is higher, lower, or to one side, as the muscles attached to it contract and displace it. It is imjDortant to know that we must frequently bring the luxated head of the bone into a different position before we can carry it back through the opening in the capsule into the articular cavil.y. Occasionally, by some accidental muscular action, the dislocation is spontaneously reduced. In the shoulder, especially, this has been observed several times. But such spontaneous reductions are very rare, because there are usually certain mechanical obstructions to the reduction, which must be overcome by skilful manipulation. These liinderances consist partly in contraction of the muscles, by which the head of the bone may be caught between two contracted muscles; another far more frequent obstacle is a small capsular opening, or its occlusion by the entrance of the soft parts. Lastly, certain tensions of the capsular or strengthening ligaments may hinder the reposition of recent traumatic luxations. In treating a luxation it must first be skilfully reduced, and then means be employed for restoring the function of the injured limb. We shall here only speak of the reduction of recent dislocations, by which we mean those that are at most eight days old. The most favorable time for reducing a dislocation is immediately after the in- jury ; then we have the least swelling of the soft parts, and little or no displacement of the luxated head of the bone; the patient is still mentally and physically relaxed from the accident, so that the rejDOsi- tion is not unfrequently very easy; later, we shall often have to facili- tate the operation by resorting to ancesthetics to remove the opposition of the muscles. Regarding the proper manoeuvres for the reduction, we can say but little in general terms, for this of course depends en- tirely on the mechanism of the different joints. Formerly, it was a general rule, for the reduction of dislocations, that the limb should be brought into the position in which it was at the moment of the dislo- cation, so that by traction the head of the bone might be replaced as it had escaped. This rule is only important in a few cases; at present, in the different dislocations we are more apt to resort to very different motions, such as flexion, hyper-extension, abduction, adduction, eleva- tion, etc. Usually, the surgeon directs the assistants to make these motions, and himself pushes the head of the bone into place when it has been brought before the articular cavity. Frequently the surgeon alone can accomplish the reduction. I have often thus reduced a dislocation of the thigh over which various colleagues, aided by muscular laborers, had worked in vain for hours. In these cases, every thing depends on correct anatomical knowledo-e.