SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 64 spleen are the organs which we first suspect ; and, although it can- not be proved that numerous new lymph-cells are formed as the others escape, it is very probable, especially as we know from clini- cal experience tliat the lymphatic glands in the vicinity of an inflam- mation almost always swell.. In spite of careful search, I have been unable to discover any thing about the morphological process of this cell-formation, but consider it very probable that lymph-cells origi- nate from sprouting of the nets of the 13'mph-sinuses in the glands. I must mention one other point, which is, that in inflammation red blood-corpuscles also not unlrequentlj’ pass through the walls of the vessels ; according to Cohnlieini’s experiments, this is greatly influ- enced by the increased intravascular pressure. According to Arnold^ not only red but white blood-cells escape from the walls of the vessels at points where the capillary vessels leave small openings (stigmata, stomata) ; it is said to be more es- pecially the cement of the cells of the capillary vessels that swells on inflaming, and becomes so yielding that line streams of blood-serum flow through these vessels into the interstices of the tissues. Let us now return to our wound, and see what becomes of the tis- sue infiltrated with cells, of the inflammatory new formation; how the cicatrix develops from it while the cell-infiltration extends slowly and sluggishly at some distance from the wound. The cells in the surfaces of the wound, which already adhere loosely, gradually assume a spin- dle shape; the intercellular tissue then becomes firmer, the spindle- cells change to fixed connective-tissue cells, and finally the young cicatricial tissue assumes more and more the form of normal, fibrous connective tissue ; that is, the white blood-cells become fixed connec- tive-tissue cells, as probably takes place even in the embrjm. Here, again, we are met by various questions. The newly-formed adhesive, interlacing tissue soon becomes firm, especiallv' in healing by the first intention; even after twenty-four hours we find its intercellular sub- stance quite stiff and fibrinous, and the borders of the wound are also more or less infiltrated with this stiff substance ; it is only the earl3' hardening of the intercellular connective substance, formed of trans- uded serum and softened connective tissue, that explains whj’’ the union is so firm, even the third day, that the flaps of tlie wound hold together without sutures, for without such connective substance the young cellular tissue could not be so coherent. This stiflening con- nective-tissue substance (Fig. 8) is most probablj' fibrinc, which con- sists of the transudation coming from the vessels under tlie influence of the extravasated blood-corpuscles, possibly also of the wandering cells. From the excellent experiments of Alexander Se/imidt it is known that most exudations contain the so-called fibrogenous sub-