110 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. ointments, almond-oil, spermaceti-ointment, or simple cataplasms of boiled oatmeal or linseed-meal, or warm-water compresses. The nar- cotic compresses or cataplasms, made with the addition of belladonna or hjoscyamus-leaves, are of little benefit. If these applications do not answer, do not delay destroying the entire granulating surface, or at least the painful part, with caustic (nitrate of silver, caustic potash, or the hot iron), with the patient antesthelized, or else excising the entire surface Avith the knife. If the great painfulness be due to hys- teria, antemia, etc., you Avill not attain much by any local remedies, but should tiy to assuage the general irritability by internal remedies, such as valerian, assafoetida, iron, quinine, AA’^arin baths, etc. 3. In large Av’ounds, especially in fistula granulations, a yellow rind sometimes forms on part of the granulation surface, which may be readily detached, and on careful examination is found to consist of pus cells, A'ery firmly attached together. Although I har'e sometimes found coagulating filaments between the cells, they do not always occur, hence we must suppose that the cell-body, the protoplasm itself, is transformed into fibrine, as occurs in true croup, and especially in the formation of fibrinous deposits on serous membranes. Here there is also a croup of the granulations. The croupous membrane reforms even a feAv hours after its remoA'^al, and this is repeated for several da}’-s, till it either disappears spontaneously, or finally ceases on cau- terization of the affected part. Very similar Avhite spots are occasion- ally found on larger granulation surfaces, Avhich are probably not caused by fibrinous deposits, but by local obstruction of the blood- A’essels. Under peculiar, unfavorable conditions, both states may re- sult in destruction of the granulations, in a true diphtheria of tlie Avound, AAdrich A\’e shall hereafter treat of as hospital gangrene. For- tunately, hoAvever, it rarely goes on to this disease, but the state of the Avound improves again after a time, and the recovery takes the usual course. If disease of the granulating surface be accompanied by SAvelling, great pain, and fever, Ave have a true acute inflammation of the Avound; then the mucous granulation substance sometimes coagulates through- out to a fibrinous mass ; the Avound-surface looks yelloAV and greasy. I shall treat of the causes of these secondary inflammations under the head of contused AA^ounds. Usually the croupous inflammation, Avhich has affected part or the entire surface of a Avound, ends in sloughing of the diseased granulations, Avhereupon new granulations spring from the depths. It cannot be denied that the perfectly local, superficial, and inter- stitial deposit of fibrine strongly supports the view that Virchow has proposed for croupous processes generally. It Avas formerh' sup