164 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. and this malorganization of the granulations again may depend on con- stitutional diseases (haemorrhagic diathesis, ecorbutis, septic or pyaemic infection). Still, local causes about the wound are imaginable, as, if extensive coagulation gradually formed in the surrounding veins, the circulation in the vessels of the granulations would be so aflected; the pressure of blood would so increase that not only the serum might escape from them, but they would rupture. It is true I have hitherto had no opportunity of confirming this by autopsy, but I have seen very few of these parenchymatous haemorrhages. The latter explanation sounds very plausible ; so far as I know, it originates with Strorneyer. He calls such haemorrhages “ haemostatic,” According to the causes, it may be more or less difficult to arrest such haemorrhages ; in most cases ice, compression, and styptics, will be proper, or, in severe cases, ligation of the arterial trunk, although this occasionally fails. This form of haemorrhage occurs cliiefly in very debilitated persons, who have been exhausted by suppuration and fever, and hence has a bad significance for the general state of the patient. LECTURE XIII. Progressive Suppuration starting from Contused Wounds.—Secondary Inflammations of the Wound: their Causes; Loenl Infection.—Febrile Reaction in Contused Wounds: Secondary Fever ; Suppurative F'ever ; Chill; their Causes.—Treatment of Contused Wounds: Immersion, Ice-bladders, Irrigation; Criticism of these Methods.—Incisions.—Counter-openings.—Drainage.—Cataplasms.—Open Treat- ment of Wounds ; Lister's Dressing.—Prophylaxis against Secondary Inflamma- tions.—Internal Treatment of those severely Wouuded: Quinine; Opium.— Lacerated Wounds : Subeutaiieous Rupture of Muscle.-* and Tendons; Tearing out of Muscles and Tendons; Tearing out of Pieces of a Limb. The granulating surface that develops on a contused wound is generally very irregular, and often has numerous angles and pockets; there is suppuration not only of the surface of the wound, but of the surrounding contused parts under the uninjured skin; hence the neighboring skin often appears undermined by pus. The inflamma- tion and suppuration often unexpectedly extend between the muscles, .along the bones, and in the sheaths ot the tendons, because these j^arts were also affected by the injury. The process of inflammation, once excited, creeps along, especially in the sheaths ol tlie tendons and in the cellular tissue; new collections ol pus form, superficially or in the depths ; the injured part remains swollen and ccdem.atous; on the surface the granulations arc smeary, yellow, swollen, and spormy. When we press in the vicinity ol the wound, the pus flows