RESULTS OF GRANULATION. 79 circumference of the \vound on the condensing granulation tissue epidermis forms and quickly separates into hard epidermic and mucous layers ; according to J. Arnold^ this formation takes place by the di- vision of a protoplasm, at first entirely amorphous, in the immediate vicinity of the existing border of epidermis. Lastly, the superfluous capillaries must be obliterated; few of them remain to keep up the circulation tlirough the cicatrix. With their obliteration the tissue be- comes drier, tougher, contracts more and more, and often the cicatrix does not acquire its permanent form and consistence for years. Tlie whole process, like all these modes of healing, contains much that is very remarkable, although recent investigations have explained many of the more minute morphological changes. The possibility, nay, the necessity, under otherwise normal circumstances, of arriving at a typical termination, is the chief characteristic of those new forma- tions that are induced by an inflammatory process. If this natural course of healing does not take place, it is because either constitu- tional or local conditions indirectly or directly interfere, or because the organ attacked is so important to life, the disturbance to the entire body so severe, that there is death of the organ, or of the individual, or that the functional disturbance of the former causes the death of the latter. Every new formation, due to inflammation, always has the tendency to reach a certain point, to retrograde, and pass into a sta- tionary state, while other new formations have no such natural termi- nation, but usually continue to grow. Different as healing by the first and second intentions appears, at the first glance, the morphological changes in the tissue are in both cases the same ; you only need to divide Fig. 3 at a, to have the same picture as in Fig, 6. Observation teaches in the simplest manner that this is actually so; if a wound almost healed by first intention, but not yet consolidated, be torn open, we have a granulating wound which soon suppurates. You will hereafter be frequently convinced of this in practice. The above process of healing by immediate adhesion and by gran- ulation we have termed traumatic inflammation, and have found it identical with some other forms of inflammation; it has also been stated that a marked peculiarity of traumatic inflammation is, that in it, without some further cause, the irritation in the tissue does not extend beyond the immediate vicinity of the injury. I beg you carefully to remember this limitation. As we know nothing ac- curately about the chemical changes and nerve-actions in the in- flamed tissue, while we do know the morphological processes very accurately, we naturally attend most to the latter if we wish to de- fine and generalize the term “ inflammation." I will brieflv take up