UNION OF WOUNDS. 49 over the wound) with collodion, give support enough to prevent ten- sion of the flaps of the wound, such as unavoidably occurs in changes of expression in the face. In from six to eight days, most simple incised wounds have adhered (irmly enough to require no further support; indeed, in many cases, this is the case by the second or fourth day. If, in the course of the following days, the dry blood about the Avound be carefully washed olF, the young cicatrix appears as a fine red stripe, a scarcely visible fine line. This process of healing is called healing hy first intention. In the course of the subsequent months, the cicatrix loses its red- ness and hardness, and finally becomes perceptibly whiter than, and as soft as, the skin ; so that for years it may be recognized as a fine white line. It often disappears almost entirely after some years. Some of you, who left the university with many still Ausible cicatrices on the face, may hope that they will be scarcely visible in six or eight years, when the Philistine visage will become you less than it does the stu- dent. Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis. LECTURE V. The more Minute Changes in Healing by the First Intention.—Dilatation olWessels in the Vieinity of the Wound.—Fluxion.—Different Views regarding the Causes of Fluxion. Gentlemeit : You are now acquainted with the changes, visible to the naked eye, that take place in the wound while it is healing-j let us now tr}!- to see what occurs in the tissues from the time of wound- ing till the formation of the cicatrix. For a long time, attempts have been made to study and know these changes more thoroughly, by making wounds in animals, and examining them at the different stages; but it is only the most exact microscopic examination of the tissue, and the direct observation of the changes after wounding, that have enabled us to give a description of the process of healing. I shall attempt to give you a brief resume of the result of these investi- gations, which, until recently, I have made my special study. The interesting results thus arrived at have in a great measure brought it about that by “ inflammation ” we now mean generally the series of changes which we perceive on microscopic examination. Of late we are accustomed to consider these morphological processes as