330 GANGRENE. disease in which the patient is condemned to long, absolute quiet, is entirely exempt from the disagreeable accompaniment of a decubitus, still some peculiarly dispose to it, chief among which is typhus; in patients with septicaemia, decubitus occurs very early, often even after three to five days of quiet; it usually begins with a very circumscribed congestion of the skin over the sacrum, while, with proper care, con- sumptive patients keep their beds for months or years, without having bed-sores. This disease is particularly troublesome for the patient, because, especially in chronic maladies, it may be accompanied by great pain ; in acute cases of typhus and septicfemia, on the contrary, the patients sometimes do not feel it at all when they have a very large bed-sore. This form of gangrene is particularly dangerous when the exciting causes cannot be entirely removed, and it becomes progressive; the prognosis is worse the more exhausted the patient; not unfrequently bed-sore is the cause of death, as it continues to enlarge in spite of all treatment, or it may be the origin of a fatal pyrnmia. Too great tension of the tissue, causing great distention of the vessels, and compressing some of them, induces, on the one hand, a diminished amount of blood, while the pathological requirements of nutriment are increased; on the other, a coagulation of blood in the capillaries from the increased friction. This is the cause of gangrene occurring in inflammation, and which we have already mentioned Avhen speaking of phlegmon, but it must not be said that every stasis of the blood in the capillaries that may occasionally occur in inflam- mation is to be referred to great tension of the tissues, as there are also other causes. It would lead me too far to enter on theories, especially as you have already heard them in the course on general pathology. Moreover, we shall return to this when treating of throm- bosis of the veins. 3. Complete arrest of the supply of arterial blood, which is particu- larly due to diseases of the heart and arteries, must also sometimes lead to gangrene; in this class belong those cases of gangrene called yanyrcena spontanea, or oftener gangrmna senilis, from its more frequent occurrence in old persons ; this may come in various ways and forms. The causes may vary thus: The coagulation of blood may begin in the capillaries (marasmic thrombosis as a result of debility of the heart, or insufficient conduction through the smaller arteries), or as an independent thrombus of the arteiy, or, lastly, a thrombus from embolism; excessive, continued antemia also, with great consecutive contraction of tlie arteries and debility of the heart, and, lastly, continued spasmodic contraction of the arteries, may in- duce gangrene. Gangrmna senilis proper is a disease originally oc-