ERYSIPELAS TRAUMATICUM. 351 days fluctuation occurs, most frequently in the axilla, occasionally else- where in the arm, the abscess opens spontaneously or is incised, and pus, such as is usually contained in a circumscribed abscess, is evacu- ated. Then the fever subsides, as do also the pain and swelling; and the patient speedily recovers from liis diseas e, which is often very painful and troublesome. The termination is not always so favorable; but, in lymphangitis from poisoned wounds, pyaemia is occasionally developed, in the subacute form most frequently; of this more here- after. In one case with lymphangitis of the leg, where the patient had chronic inflammation of the kidneys at the same time, I saw the in- guinal glands with the superjacent skin become gangrenous, after they had been enormously swollen. This termination is very rare, although the pus in these inflammations of the lymphatic vessels, especially after poisoning with cadaveric matter, is occasionally putrid in char- acter. Acute inflammation of the lymphatic glands, terminating in resolution or suppuration, occurs as an idiopathic disease ; in such cases we cannot see the connection, by red lines along the lymphatics, between a wound, or another point of inflammation, and the lymphat- ic glands; this may be because only the superficial vessels appear as red cords in the skin, while the deeper ones, even when inflamed, are not recognizable to the sight or touch. lienee in the patient we only know superficial lymphangitis. One of the peculiarities of this dis- ease is, that when it occurs in the extremities it rarely extends be- yond the axillary or inguinal glands. Once in a case of lymphangitis of the.arm and adenitis of the axilla I saw pleurisy occur on the same side, which possibly may have resulted from extension of the in- flammation through the lymphatic vessels. We know very little of the pathological anatomy of lymphangitis of the subcutaneous tissue, scarcely more than we can see with the naked eye on the patient, for this disease is scarcely ever fatal when it only attacks the lymphatic vessels, and in animals it can only be very imperfectly induced by experiment. The cellular tissue imme- diately around the lymphatic vessels is decidedly im]Dlicated, the capillaries dilated and distended with blood. We cannot decide whether the lymphatic vessel is obstructed in the later stages bv coagulating lympli, or whether coagula form in the lymph at the start and irritate the walls of the vessels. If we may transfer the obser- vations on uterine lymphangitis, which so often occurs in puerperal lever, to the sldn, in certain stages there is pure pus in the dilated lymphatic vessels; the vicinity of these vessels is infiltrated with serum and plastic matter; tlie plastic infiltration of the cellular tissue increases to suppurative infiltration, or even to formation of abscess, in winch the thin-walled lymphatic vessels themselves disajipear; the