598 TUMORS. themselves (hyperplasia) is an act often observed and constantly go- ing on in physiological growth, it only remains to treat of the point of origin of the indifferent formative cells, and their further course. Here we find ourselves in the same position as in inflammation, only in regard to the development of tumors we unfortunately cannot make any experimental investigations. Formerly the proliferation of con- nective-tissue cells was not doubted, and these were assumed as the source for the development of most tumors. But most, possibly all, of these indifferent cells are wandering white blood-cells. There is little doubt that on this point there was formerly much error, conclu- sions having been too quickly drawn from the arrangement in groups, and the metamorphoses of the formative cells ; nor can I claim to have escaped these errors. For instance, when in sarcoma we found small indifferent cells, with one, two, and then more nuclei near together (when between the filaments of the connective tissue, where the con- nective-tissue cells lie, we saw a small, then, near by, a large group of indifferent cells), the conclusion tliat the new groups of cells were deriv- atives from the connective-tissue cells seemed quite unprejudiced ; also, that from these indifferent cells, larger multinucleated ones were con- stantly developed till the so-called giant-cells were arrived at. Know- ing now that an infiltration of the tissue with small cells may depend on escape of white blood-cells from the vessels into the tissue; as be- fore remarked, we also become doubtful about the origin of the indif- ferent formative cells in the tumors. Of late, especially in glandular and epithelial cancer, I usually seek in vain for proliferating connec- tive-tissue cells, although the whole connective-tissue layer of these tumors is generally infiltrated with young cells. The deep ob- scurity which had surrounded the origin of young epithelial cells has only lately been cleared away. From the latest investiga- tions we know that these cells increase by a sort of segmenta- tion. 1 must here remind you of Avhat was said about the regen- eration of tissue in inflammation (Lecture XXII.). From ArnokPs observations we may suppose that, in the development of tumors, protoplasm which has been fully changed to tissue may possibly pass into a granular condition, a nucleus may form in it, and it may then proliferate, and segmentation occur as it does in cells; in which case new tissue is first formed when the granular jirotoplasin has chano'ed into cells; so that iSchwctu'iPs law that “all tissues are formed from cells” is not broken, although there is a inodilication of the law that “ every cell comes from a cell.” We have frequently spoken of indifferent fovmativtc cells, without having sulliciently defined this term. By these we mean the small, round cells which everywhere first appear after irritating the tissue,