TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 348 third day after the injury or operation. 2. There is probably a dry, dust-like substance, which, coming on the wounds, whether fresh or granulating, causes erysipelas ; this substance clings especially to s[)onges and dressings. I have often observed that patients operated on after each other, under the same circumstances, in the same opei’ating-room, all had erysipelas on the fresh wounds a few hours after the operation, without retention of secretion from the wound, although they lay in perfectly separate wards of the hospital. Ery- sipelas thus becomes domesticated in the hospital; the infectino- sub- stance may be transported on the clothes of the surgeons making the dressings; it may adhere to instruments, beds, or even to the w'alls. The more accurately I examined the cases of erysipelas in the Zurich hospital, and in my clinic in Vienna, the more evident was its occur- rence in groups—an occurrence entirely independent of all other morbid influences outside of the hospital. From statistics during two years, supported by contributions from the phvsicians of the Canton Zurich, I have found that during that time erysipelas had not occurred epidemically in the country or city, but that, like other acute diseases, it was particularly frequent in autumn and spring ; hence erysipelas epidemics in hospital must depend on circumstances that are to be sought in the hospital itself, and which I have already indicated. Here arises the question whether the poison which excites erysipelas is always the same, whether it is specific. This cannot be accurately answered : in its favor the fact that the form of the cu- taneous inflatnmation induced is always the same, although varying in intensity and extent ; against it we may say that erysipelas is probably caused by various kinds of putrefaction, by miasma, per- haps also by some animal poisons. Possibly in all of these poison- ous substances there might be one certain material which induced er3'sipelas, particulai’ly a variety of material, which had a specific affin- ity for the lymphatic vessels of the skin ; it must be acknowledged that, under certain circumstances, existing at some particular time, such a material may develop more readily and extensively than at other times. It has often been asserted, and of late more particu- larly by Orth, that erysipelas extends by micrococcus vegetation from the wound to the skin. Although the spread and reproduction of the erysipelas contagion mucli resemble those of a ferment, there is as yet no proof that in erysipelas the micrococcus is the bearer of such a ferment, still less that it is only micrococcus. 1 do not up- hold the correctness of this view. I have sometimes found coccus and streptococcus in the serum of erysipelas vesicles, but they arc also found in blisters frotn burns or sweating, in small-pox pustules, etc. ; and this is no proof that these diseases are due to micrococ-