SCROFULA. 417 blood, for the latter does not exist; but the treatment should be purel^y symptomatic, and usually general. From the above, you see that scrofula is not a materia peccans in the blood, but only a debility of the organization in some direction, a more or less intense predisposi- tion to peculiar forms of disease. This is a decided difference from, and an advance beyond, the old view cf the disease. From my ex- planation you may also understand those recent skeptics who think that all chronic inflammations in children are of similar origin, and that it is consequently unnecessary in each case of chronic inflamma- tion of the lynqahatic glands, or in articular inflammation, to add that it is scrofulous or depends on a lymphatic diathesis. Possibly these expressions may disappear in the course of time, as they ■will be ren- dered unnecessary by greater clearness of ideas, but it is not correct to say that all chronic inflammations in children liave the same origin, for some of them may be due to hereditaiy or developed syphilis; and in adults there are many other constitutional predispositions besides those that have hitherto been termed scrofulous or tuberculous, and which consist in the predisjaosition to chronic inflammations ending in suppuration, caseous degeneration, and ulceration. It seems to me that there can be no doubt that these processes are, to a certain ex- tent, opposed to other forms of chronic inflan.mation—for instance, to those depending on interstitial proliferation of connective tissue (cirrhosis of the liver, morbus Brightii, gray degeneration of the medulla spinalis, elc.). Many things have been tried to improve the lymphatic diathesis. Formerly ])urgatives were occasionally given, and in England particu- larly small doses of mercury were administered ; this is well suited to fat scrofulous children ; burnt sponge, folia juglandis regia?, herba jacea, acorn-coffee, and bitter medicines, were recommended, and are still used. At present, cod-liver oil is most used as an anti-scrofuletic, ns it is not only considered to have a specific action against the scrofu- lous diathesis, but is very properly prized as exceedingly nutritious, and hence is especially used in emaciated scrofulous children ; in fat children it might even prove injurious. Some of the preparations of iodine act very well in scrofula; but they should be employed care- fully, and in fat rather than in atrophic children ; iodide of iron is best in pale fat children, with fungous inflammations of the joints. The easily-digested preparations of iron are very valuable remedies 1ti scrofula patients with ana?mia. Salt-water baths also act beneficially ; these may either be used at the springs, in Germany, for instance, at Kreuznach, Rheme,Wittekind, Coblenz, Tfilz, Reichenhall; in Austria, at Hall, Tschl; in Switzerland, at Rheinfelden, Schweizeiiiall, Lavey, or Bex; or, they may be prepared at home by adding from, according