407 COURSE OF CIIROXIC INFLAMMATION. tive abscesses. The mode of healing above indicated does not take ]dace with desirable rapidit}", but, unfortunately, the general and local conditions are occasionally of such a nature that, after the evacuation of the pus, acute inflammation, with fever, attacks the abscess, and pyaemia or febrile marasmus comes on, or else, in spite of the evacua- tion of the pus, the chronic iflceration goes on slowly but steadily in the walls of the cavity. In such cases the openings of these large, often deeply-seated cavities continually pour out a thin, bad pus; the openings of such abscesses, whether of small or large diameters, are called Jistnlce. You may also imagine the above process of suppuration or ulcera- tion as transferred to a surface or membrane ; then we should have a flat or open ulcer., but, as this is an object of special and great prac- tical importance, we must treat of it in an independent chapter. 4. Chronic inflammation may take another course very like sup- puration, that is, caseous degeneration of the inflammatory neoplasia. Imagine, again, a great collection of young cells, and suppose, further, that in the centre this gi’oup undergoes molecular disintegration, and forms a cheesy pulp without separation of fluid intercellular substance. Plastic infiltration goes on slowly in the periphery of the caseous spot, by the collection of wandering cells, but the infiltrated tissue also passes into the caseous metamorphosis, and thus the central focus constantly increases. Here, also, as in suppuration, the failure of a vascularization keeping pace with the cell-formation is the local cause of the disintegration ; here is a form of ulceration that may be termed “ caseous ulceration ” (a vascular, dry necrosis). When these yellow spots are found in the cadaver, it is often sujjposed that they corre- spond to a dried collection of pus, but this is not true, or, at least, A'ery rarely so; most of these cheesy collections were from the first in miniature what they now are in gross, and were never fluid pus. It may very readily be proved experimentally that these caseous spots may proceed directly from the inflammatory new formation without suppuration. If, for instance, by introducing a foreign body (as a se- ton) into the subcutaneous tissue of a rabbit, you excite continued inflammation, in the course of a few days a yellovA’, cheesy mass forms around the foreign body ; it is true this is the same for the rabbit as pus is for a man, but it was never fluid pus. There are also morbid processes in man in which, during chronic inflammation, this caseous transformation occurs instead of suppuration. In man, the further fate of these foci varies. If the process take place in a part not too far below the surface, it m.ay, by advancing from within outward, cause perforation; the pulp is evacuated, and the cavity may graduallv close as a cold abscess does. When this is the termination, it is usu-