TREATMENT OF SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS. 97 Under such circumstances it is advisable to change the dressing, to irritate the granulating surface by new remedies. These temporary arrests of improvement occur in almost every large wound. Under such circumstances you may order fomentations of warm camomile- tea ; several compresses may be dipped in the warm tea, wrung out, and from time to time applied fresh to the wound ; or you may pre- scribe lotions of lead-water. You may also paint the wound from time to time with a solution of nitrate of silver (two to five grains to the ounce of water). If the wound-surface be no longer large, you may finally make use of salves ; these should be spread thinly over charpie or linen ; the most suitable are the basilicon-ointment (compound resin cerate, consisting of oil, wax, resin, suet, and turpentine) and a salve of nitrate of silver (one grain to a drachm of any salve, with the addition of Peruvian balsam). If the cicatrization be already far advanced, we may employ zinc-salve (zinc, oxide 3 j, ung. aq. rosse 3 j), or let the dry charpie adhere, and have the last portion of the wound heal under the scab. A very peculiar and occasionally a very efficient method*of hast- ening cicatrization of granulating wounds has been introduced by JReverdin. He found that a small portion of cutis taken from the surface of the body with concave scissors, and fastened with the raw surface on the granulations by means of adhesive plasters, not only becomes adherent, but the transplanted epidermis begins to grow and forms the centre of a so-called cicatricial island, whence the skin- ning over of the wound advances just as it does from the margins. In the clinic we have often resorted to this aiTificial skinning over of wounds with epidermis, and rarely ineffectually. The effect is perceived when we remove the plaster on the third day and find a red aureola around the transplanted piece ; this gradually grows, and on the sixth or eighth day is followed by a bluish-white border, just as in cicatrization at the edges of the wound. I do not underestimate the practical value of this proceeding, but it is even more interesting to mefromtlie addition it forms to our knowledge of natural history. Here we have the most striking proof not only of the independence of cell-life in the tissues of man, but still more of the readily-excited formative power of the epithelium, which is here aroused by a change of the nutrient material, while the portion of the papillary layer of the cutis transplanted at the same time does not grow. ThierscJ}, Mimiich, and JSIenzel have made observations showing that, eight hours or perhaps longer after death, epidermis may be successfully transplanted. The finer details of the histological changes in these transplantations have been carefully studied by lieverdin, and still more so by Amahilc, Czerny has shown that