65 HEALING BY FIRST INTENTION. stance, which forms fibrine as we know it in the coagulated state, by combining with the fibro-plastic substance of the blood and other tis- sues, Very accurate proportions of fibrogenous and fibrino-plastic substance are required to form fibrine; these favorable requirements occur in many inflammations. Schmidt considers it probable that all firm fibrous tissue is formed and maintained by the fibrogenous substance from the blood being precipitated in a certain manner around the tissue-cells, because they contain a fibrino-plastic sub- stance in a firm shape. Under this hypothesis we must suppose a specific cell-action, which would cause the coagulating product to as- sume the form of muscular stria3 in one place and in another of con- nective tissue. In our case this is a very probable view, for we see filamentary connective tissue gradually form from the intercellular coaarulated fibrine. It is true the amount of intercellular substance in the new formation is not great, but there is little doubt that the small spaces between the cells are filled by it, A short time subse- quently the young cicatricial tissue appears still to consist chiefly of spindle-cells closely pressed together (Fig. 9); but then the spindle- cells diminish greatly by flattening, many are even destroyed, and we have now a filamentary connective-tissue substance, which is to be considered partly as a product of secretion, partly as metamorphosed protoplasm of the spindle-cells ; the cicatricial tissue finally remains stable in this state, Thiersch, who quite recently has again carefully studied the healing of wounds, maintains that the apparently fibri- nous intermediate substance is not fibrine, but only metamorphosed connective tissue. I will not deny that there may be an immediate union of the soft- ened edges of the wound, although it must be very rare. Quite recently I had Dr. Gussenbauer make a new series of accurate obsei’- vations on healing by the first intention with especial reference to Thiersch's views. He could not confirm the latter’s observations, but he, as well as GiUerhocJc, arrived at results which in the main corre- spond with the above views, which I arrived at from my own studies. Meantime, what has become of the closed ends of the vessels ? The blood-clot in them is reabsorbed or organized ; the walls of the vessels send out shoots which communicate with the vascular loops of the opposing border of the wound, and with each other. In this way, however, only the rather scanty union of the opposing vascular loops, \\ hich is at first slight, is accomplished ; these were already formed by c.xtensivc tortuosities and windings of the vessels, which had loop- shaped terminations after the injury (Figs. 12-14). This is not the place to go into the details of this interesting development of the vas- cular loops; their development is not due solely to dilatation, but very