162 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF TUE SOFT PARTS. Tliere is cell-infiltration of all the connective tissue of the extremity (of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the perimysium, neurilemma, sheaths of the vessels, periosteum, etc.), which leads to suppuration. Toward the sixth or eighth day the whole extremity may be entirely saturated with pus and putrid fluid. Theoretically, we might imagine such cases curable ; that is, we might imagine that, by making suit- able openings in the skin, the pus and dead tissue might be evacu- ated, But this rarely occurs in practice. If the case has undergone the above distention, generally only quick amputation can save the patient, and even this is not always successful. We may term this variety of infiltration sanio-serous. There is a cellular-tissue inflam- mation, caused by local septic infection; a septic phlegmon, whose products again have great tendency to decomposition, but which finally leads to extensive suppuration and necrosis of tissue if the jaatient lives through the blood-infection which always accompanies it. The earlier such processes limit themselves, the better the prognosis; with the advance of the local symptoms the danger of death of the patient increases. With the detachment of dead portions of tissue, Ave must again return to the arteries. An artery may be contused, so as not to be fully divided, and the blood continues to flow through it although part of its wall is incapable of living, and becomes detached on the sixth to the ninth day, or even later. As soon as this occurs, there AAnll be a hmmorrhage in proportion to tlie size of the artery. These late secondary ha?morrhages, which usually come on suddenly, are exceed- ingly dangerous, as they attack the patient unexpectedly, sometimes while sleeping, and frequently remain unnoticed until much blood has escaped. Besides the above manner, late arterial secondary hsemor- rhage may also result from suppuration of the thrombus, or of the Avail of the artery, I observed a case of this kind late in the third Aveek after a severe operation in the immediate vicinity of the femoral artery, in which, hoAvever, the artery AA^as not wounded. The bleeding began at night; as the Avound looked perfectly well, and the patient had for some time slept the Avhole night, and for some days had been promised permission to get up the next day, there Avas no nurse in his private room. He Avoke in the middle of the night (the twenty-second day after the operation), found himself SAA'imming in blood, and rung at once for the nurse. She instantly called the assist- ant physician of the ward, who found the patient unconscious. He at once compressed the artery in the AVOund, and, Avhile I Avas being called, every thing Avas done to restore the patient. I found him Jnilseless, unconscious, but breathing, and the heart still beating.