570 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. between the ends of the tendons also; an interna! callus cannot develop in tendons, as they have no medullary cavity). In this stage (about the fourth day), the picture is somewhat as in Fig. 11:;^, This provisional union soon becomes firm, as the inflammatory new formation is metamorphosed to connective tissue; meantime, some neoplastic tissue has developed in the stumps of the tendon, which combines with the intermediate substance. 'J'he entire newly-formed intermediate mass gradually contracts strongly, becomes very firm, so that it as- sumes exactly the character of tendinous tissue; the tendon is thus entirely regenerated. It is true this does not always go on as rapidly as we have here described, but (as also occurs in fractures) is not unfi-equently interfered ivith by a large extravasa- tion of blood between the ends of the tendon ; this is enclosed by the inflammatory new formation, be- comes only partially organized, but must be mostly reabsorbed before there can be complete regenera- ^nlOT^y-ciivide^^^ tendon. Extensive extravasations of blood don, on tiie I'ourtii may interfere with the regular course of healing, not only by their size and the time required for their absorption, but by occasionally putrefying and suppurating. The oper- ation and course of healing in myotomy are about the same as have just been described. You have just heard that the tendon is entirely regenerated, and the cicatricial intermediate substance contracts strongly, that is, it shortens, and you will justly wonder wh}'-, knowing these facts, the operation is still done, as the tendon is not thereby much elongated. To this I answer that tenotomy of itself is of no use, or, at least, does little good, but that the tendinous cicatrix may be much more readily stretched than the tendon of the contracted muscle or the muscle it- self ; tenotomy only proves useful from the orthopedic after-lre?-tment; it greatly aids the cure, and often it alone renders it possible, when the contracted muscles, fasciic, or ligaments, resist all eflbrts at e.xtcn- sion. Hence we should not await complete cicatricial contraction of the divided tendon, but must stretch the young cicatrix; the orthope- dic treatment may begin ten or twelve days after division of the ten- don in club-foot, either by extension, manijnilations, and apparatus, or by straightening the foot and applying a i)lastcr dressing. Favorable results were first rendered possible by subcutaneous tenotomy; then the healing goes on rapidly, and a distensible cicatrix forms; if the Fio. 312.