SOME PECULIARITIES OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 134 1 lirough whicli the body had apparently passed so quickly that the patient Rad not noticed its entrance. After its extraction the very moderate swelling entirely subsided; the small wound discharged but little pus, and was entirely closed in eight daj-s. These favorable conditions of punctured wounds have given rise to the so-called subcutaneous operations, which were introduced into surgery more particularly by Stromeyer and Dieffenhach^ and consist in passing a pointed, narrow knife under the skin, and dividing ten- dons, muscles, or nerves, for various purposes of treatment, without making any wound in the skin other than the small punctured wound through which the tenotome is introduced. Under these circum- stances the wound almost always quickly closes by first intention, while in open wounds of tendons there is almost always suppuration, often extensive death of the tendon. Of this we shall speak further in the chapter on deformities (Chapter XVIII.). If the puncture has entered one of the cavities of the body, and caused injury there, the prognosis will always be doubtful; there is more or less danger, according to the physiological importance and vulnerability (the greater or less susceptibility to dangerous inflam- mation) of the organ implicated. Such a punctured wound is not so dangerous as a gunshot wound. We shall not at present pursue this subject further, but must now say something about punctured wounds of the nerves and arteries of the extremities. Punctured wounds of nerves naturally induce, according to their extent, paralysis of vaiiable amount; otherwise they have the same etiect as incised wounds of the nerves. Regeneration occurs the more readily when the whole breadth of the nerve has not been punc- tured. The case is difFerent when a foreign body, as the point of a needle or a bit of glass, is left in the nerve-trunk; they may heal in Iiere as in other tissues. The cicatrix in the nerve which contains this body may remain excessively painful at every touch ; there may also be neuralgia or nervous pains extending excentricaUy. IMoreover, the severest nervous diseases, acute or chronic, may be induced by these foreign bodies. Epileptiform spasms, with an aura, a pain in the cicatrix preceding the spasm, have been observed after such in- juries ; some surgeons also assert that traumatic tetanus may also be induced by this neiwous irritation. This appears to me very doubtful, but of this hereafter. The first of these diseases, the so-called reflex C2)ilcpsy, may usually be cured by the extraction of the foreign body. Punctured wounds of arterial trunks or their large branches may induce various results. A very small puncture usually closes by the elasticity and contractility of the coats; indeed, there is not always a haemorrhage, any more than there is always escajie of faeces from