452 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. filtration of cells, are transformed into gelatinous or even fluid inter- cellular substance. Now, how shall this be transformed into bone ? Tlie cells embedded in the stellate bone-corpuscles participate no more in the inflammatory new formation than the stable connective-tissue corpuscles. Here also, as in most tissues of the body, the inflamma- tory neoplasia infiltrates the connective tissue; namely, that which envelops the vessels in the Haversian canals, and in the medulla of the bone. Still, the space for the extensive production of cells is limited, and, if the wandering of the cells went on very rapidly, the vessel would soon be entirely compressed in the bony canal; if the circula- tion be then arrested, the nutrition of the young brood of cells also ceases, and the necessary result is death of the affected portion of bone (necrosis). Quite right, this may be the course ; superficial ne- crosis may thus combine with periostitis ; of this hereafter. Usually, however, the cell infiltration in the Haversian canals is not so rapid as to compress the vessels. The process is chronic ; the bone gradually gives way, the Haversian canals become wider and wider, the firm cortical substance of the bone becomes porous, in the canals (widened to meshes) lies the brood of young cells, interspersed with gelatinous intercellular substance and numerous vessels, an interstitial prolifera- tion of granulations. If you imagine the process as continuing, the bone disappears more and more, the entire infiltrated portion may be dissolved, and the inflammatory neoplasm takes its place. If you macerate such a bone, at the seat of disease you will find a loss of substance, with rough porous walls, that look as if gnawed oflF; in this defect lies the neoplasia that has taken the place of the bone (Fig. 74). Now, remember that so far the word pus has not been men- tioned ; still, of course, the inflammatory neoplasia may subsequently suppurate, and, if we continue our supposition that the process began in the periosteum, you have a superficial cold abscess lying on the bone; its walls may be covered with granulations. If you have carefully followed me thus far, you will have remarked already that throughout the whole process the bone substance remains entirely passive; it is entirely consumed, and we might say, ivith a certain amount of truth, chronic ostitis, or caries, is actually only a chronic inflammation of the connective tissue in the bone, -with con- sumption of the latter. And according to my view this is perfectly correct, at least for the great majority of cases. Still, how does this consumption of bone take place ? Should not microscopical examina- tion show whether the bone-cells are changed or not during the pro- cess ? Remove with the forceps a particle of bone, as thin a sheet as possible, from a carious spot, and look at it under the microscope, you will in many cases see its edges and surface bitten out, as it were,