CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 532 fcions will gradually spring up, and the wound will finally heal. I de- cidedly prefer tliis method. Dropsies of the subcutaneous mucous bursce are perfectly analo- gous to tlie above-described dropsies of the sheaths of tendons. Per- liaps they may occasionally be caused by pressure or blows, but in many cases it is impossible to find any exciting cause. Although dropsies may occur in any of the constant, or occasionally in newly- formed subcutaneous mucous bursae, they are particularly frequent in the bursa praepatellaris, which, according to Lmhart, often consists of two or three mucous bursae, lying over each other, sometimes en- tirely closed, at others communicating with each other. Dropsy of the bursa praepatellaris is very easy to recognize, for the tumor, which attains about the size of a small apple, is very evidently situated on the patella, and examination plainly shows that the sac containing the fluid does not communicate with the knee-joint. This disease often begins acutely or subacutely; the fluid collects rapidly, the swelling is painful, the skin over it is red, and the patient cannot Avalk Avell. The terminations are various ; there is often entire reabsorption of the fluid, and a return to the normal state ; in other cases the reabsorjD- tion is partial, the acute symptoms subside, and the state gradually becomes chronic. Rupture of the sac is one of the rarer terminations; this may be subcutaneous; the fluid is emptied into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and induces diffuse inflammation. Rupture of both sac and skin is the rarest result; the disease then runs the course of a punctured or incised wound of the bursa, of which we have already sjjoken. The form of the disease w'hich is chronic from the start is more frequent than the acute. It begins slowly, without pain, and is more frequent in old than in young persons. In England this chronic dropsy of the bursa praepatellaris is called “ housemaid’s knee ; ” tliere it is said to occur particularly among the servant-w'omen who have to scrub the stairs on their knees. But it seems to me very doubtful whether this has any effect on the occurrence of the disease, for it has been sliowm by many anatomists that in a kneeling position the weight of the body does not come on the patella, but on the cond3des of the tibia. To bring the anterior surface of the patella on the ground, it would be necessary to lie almost on the belly. The contents of these dropsical sacs are much less tenacious than those of sheaths of the tendons; but not unfrequeutly these sacs also contain fibrinous bodies, wdiich, on palpation, give a friction-sound, like that made by starch-meal when i-ubbed betw'een the fingers. In the course of time the sac itself is thickened, the more so the older the disease.