481 ANATOMY OF NECROSIS. just as in the acute processes, suppuration, change of the inflamma’ tory new formation to detritus or caseous matter, extends into the bone, and so impairs its circulation that part of the bone is no longer nourished and must necrose; atonic forms of caries induce necrosis more readily than the fungous forms, as has already been stated. The necrosis that is supposed to occur after thrombosis or embo- lism of the cliief trunk of the nutrient artery of a bone appears to be of more theoretical than practical importance. This variety of ne- crosis has hardly been proved by dissections on man ; it is, moreover, very improbable, because the arterial supply, in full-grown bones, comes from so many sources that stopping one of the many afferent branches does not suffice to completely arrest the circulation in any considerable portion of bone. Although the collateral circulation in bone cannot, from mechanical causes, be greatly facilitated by dilata- tion of the vessels, and hence in capillary stasis there is always danger of partial necrosis, as already stated, still the connection, arrange- ment, and regular distribution of the capillaries, even in the firm cor- tical substance, are such that when the afflux is interrupted from one source it may easily come from another. In bone there are no defined capillary net-works and capillary groups as in the skin, but all the cap- illaries are intimately connected in all directions, as in the muscles. The experiment of inserting a peg into the foramen nutritium in the upper part of the tibia of rabbits has been tried, and it has been followed by necrosis around the peg. I have made this experiment and obtained the same result by inserting the peg at any other part of the bone, and hence I believe that this experimentally-induced ne- crosis depends only on the variety of the injury to the bone. It will be proper now to study more accurately the anatomical course of necrosis, especially of that coming after acute periostitis and osteomyelitis. I have already told you, on various occasions, when treating of the healing of fractures and of chronic ostitis and periostitis, that the vicinity of such collections of pus is almost al- ways affected in such a way that osteophytes form on and in the bone; their development is greatly influenced by the periosteum, and also by the surrounding parts (where they form after fractures). While solid healing is due to this new formation of bone after frac- tures, in chronic ostitis and periostitis it is more an accidental prod- uct of irritation, which subsequently has no further significance. The same thing is true in superficial necrosis. When, from new de- position of osteophytes around the sequestrum, the bone becomes more dense around the point of disease, whether this be exfoliation of one of the cranial bones, or a sequestrum from a sawed surface, it has no further practical importance. It is different in complicated