FURUNCLE AND CARBUNCLE. 283 nourished butchers are often attacked by furuncles ; but this may be otherwise explained, for not unfrequently it may be found that in them the furuncles are due to poisoning by some animal matter; we should at least always examine for this cause. But I think it is going too far to assume that every furuncle is caused by infection, and is always to be regarded as one symptom of a general suppurative dia- thesis—of a pyjemia. The treatment of individual furuncles is very simple. Attempts have been made to cut short the process, and prevent suppuration, by early applications of ice. But this rarely succeeds, and is a very tire- some treatment, which is not often popular with the patient. I prefer hastening suppuration by warm, moist compresses, and, if the furuncle does not spread too much, to quietly await the detachment of the central plug, then to squeeze out the furuncle, and do nothing more. If the furuncle be very large and painful, we may make one incision, or two crossing each other, througli the tumor ; then the natural course of the process is favored by the escape of blood, and the more rapid suppuration. General furunculosis is a difficult disease to treat successfully, es- pecially if we know little of its cause. Usually we give quinine, mineral acids, and iron, internally. Besides these, warm baths con- tinued perseveringly are to be recommended. A perfectly-regulated diet, especially nutritious meats with good wine, is also advisable. The individual furuncles are to be treated as above advised. (c.) Carbuncle and carhuncndous inflammation [anthrax) anatom- ically resembles a group of several furuncles lying close together. The whole process is more extensive and intense, more inclined to progress, so that other parts may be affected by the extension of the in- flammation. Many carbuncles, like most boils, are originally a purely local disease. Their chief seat is the hard skin of the back, especially in elderly persons. Their origin and first stage are the same as in furuncle. But soon a number of white points form near each other, and the swelling, redness, and pain, in the periphery, increase in some cases so much that the carbuncle may attain the size of a soup- dish ; and, while the detachment of the white plugs of skin goes on in the centre, the process not unfrequently extends in the periphery. The detachment of gangrenous shreds is much greater in carbuncle tlian in fumncle. After the loss of the plugs of cutis, the skin ap- pears perforated like a sieve, but subsequently not unfrequently sup- purates, so that after a carbuncle a large cicatri.x is always left. But, even when most intense, tlie process is almost always limited to the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue; it is most rare for fascirn and muscles to be destroyed, so that, wlien a large carbuncle is in the