3 INTRODUCTION. be forgotten that the anatomical diagnosis—I mean the recognition of the pathological changes in the diseased organ—is only one means to the end, ^vhich is the cure of the disease. Tlie true proUems for the physician are to find out the causes of the morbid process^ to prog- nosticate tJie course, conduct it to a favorable termination, or control it, and these are equally difficidt in internal and external medicine. Only one tiling more is required of the practical surgeon : this is, the art of operating. This, like every art, has its knack; the facility of operating secondarily depends on accurate knowledge of anatomy, on practice, and on personal aptitude. This aptitude may also be culti- vated by persevering practice. Just remember how Demosthenes suc- ceeded in acquiring fluency in speaking. This knack, which is certainly necessary, has long separated sur- gery from medicine in the strict sense; we may historically follow this separation as it constantly became more practically felt, till in this century it was finally recognized as impractical and was abol- ished. The word “ chirurgery ” at once expresses that originally it was regarded as entirely manual, for it comes from and tpyov, which literally mean “ hand-work,” or, in the pleonasm of the middle ages, “ hand-work of chirurgery.” Little as it comes within the scope of this work to give a complete sketch of the history of surgery, it still seems to me important and in- teresting to give you a short sketch of the external and internal de- velopment of our science, which will explain to you some of the va- rious regulations affecting the so-called “ medical staff” still existing in different states. A fuller history of surgery can only be of use to you hereafter, when you shall have acquired some knowledge of the value or worthlessness of certain systems, methods, and operations. Then, in the historical development of the science, especially as regards op- erative surgery, you will find the key for some surprising and for some isolated experience, also for much that is incomplete. Many things that may be necessary for the comprehension of the subjects, I shall relate to you Avhen speaking of the different diseases; now, I shall only present a few prominent points in the development of sur- gery and of its present position. Among the people in former times, the art of healing was inti- mately associated with religious education. The Hindoos, Arabs, and Egyptians, as Avell as the Greeks, considered the art of healing as a manifestation made by the gods to the priests, and then spread by tradi- tion. Philologists were not agreed as to the age of the Sanscrit writ- ings discovered not long since; formerly their origin was iDlaccd at 1000-1400 13. c., noAV it is considered certain that they Avere Avritten in the first century of the Christian era. The Agur-Veda (“ Book of