269 TREATMENT OF BURNS. blood-poisoning is thus induced. Lastly, the symptoms might be the result of an intense phlogistic or septic (where there is formation of eschars) intoxication. Should the bum not prove fatal from its extent alone, the great loss of skin and consequent suppuration may proves dangerous, especially for children and old persons; in the same way the amputations necessary from complete charring of single extremi- ties involve certain dangers, which are the more serious as they affect persons already greatly depressed by the burn. In the treatment of burns in the first and second degrees, more depends on alleviating the pain than on any energetic treatment; for we cannot hasten the return of the skin to its natural state, but must leave the course of healing entirely to Nature. If there are any vesi- cles, it is not advdsable to remove the loosened epidermis, but to opeu the vesicle by a couple of needle-punctures, and carefully press out the serum, to relieve the tense feeling. It would be most natural to cool the burnt part, by applying cold compresses, or holding it in cold water. But this is not usually very popular with patients, as the cold should be considerable and continued, to relieve the pain very much. The cold-water compresses warm too quickly, and immersion in cold ■water is only applicable to the extremities, hence cold is compara- tively little used in brums. Numerous remedies are used in burns, whose only effect is to perfectly cover the inflamed skin. Smearing the surface with oil and applying wadding is a very common and j^op- ular treatment. Mashed potatoes, starch, and collodicm, are also much used as protective coverings for the burned skin. The two former may be regarded as popular remedies ; for extensive burns I cannot praise collodion very much ; the collodion covering cracks readily, and in the cracks the skin becomes sore and very sensitive. Some surgeons use peculiar salves and liniments instead of oil; such as a liniment of equal parts of lime-water and linseed-oil, salve of equal parts of butter and wax, lard, rind of bacon, etc. Another plan of treatment is with a solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to the ounce of water; this is to be painted over the burnt part, and compresses wet with the same to be kept constantly applied. At first the pain from the cau- terization of the parts denuded of epidermis is occasionally very great, but a thin blackish-brown crust soon forms, and the pain then ceases entirely. I particularly recommend to you this plan of treatment when all three degrees of burns are combined. In burns of the third degree, if there is only mortification of the cutis (when this is not charred, but burned by boiling water, it gen- erally becomes perfectly white), the treatment is the same as that above given. Should it subsequently be desirable to hasten the de^ tachment of the eschar, cataplasms may be employed to stimulate