449 PERIOSTITIS. tearing' pains at niglit. If sucli a process has lasted for months and tlien recedes, the affected bone remains thickened and nodular on the surface. If you have a chance to examine such a case anatomically, you find the following : The two layers of the periosteum cannot be exactly separated; both have changed to a fatty-looking, tolerably- consistent mass. On microscopical examination you find that the tis- sue consists of connective tissue richly strewn with cells and traversed by dilated capillaries in greater or less number. This morbidly-thick- ened periosteum is more readily detached from the surface of the bone than is normall}’^ the case ; the subjacent bone (we are supposing a hollow bone, such as the tibia) has its surface covered with small nodules of peculiar, occasionally stalactite shape. If you now saw through the bone, you find that these nodules on the stilhdistinct sur- face of the compact cortical substance are a thick layer of porous, apparently young, newly-formed bone-substance, which are very inti- mately connected with the cortical substance, it is true, but which, nevertheless, if the process be not too old, may be broken off with a chisel in good-sized pieces. If the disease has already lasted some time, and the union has become very intimate, we find that the de- posited porous bone has become more compact, especially if the mor- bid process has actually terminated. Let us stop here a moment to inquire the origin of this newly- formed bone. It may come either from the inner surface of the periosteum, or from the surface of the bone. The former is the gen- erally-received opinion, and it is supposed to be a renewal of the function of the periosteum, as it existed before the bone had com- pleted its growth, when regular layers of new bone were always formed on the inner surface of the periosteum. This form of perios- titis, which is combined with the formation of osteophytes (as the young bony substance deposited during inflammation is termed), may be called osteoplastic^ a name which I shall use, for the sake of brevity. I Nevertheless, I do not agree in the above view, that osteophytes pro- ceed solely from the periosteum, but am satisfied that they actually grow from the bone, as the Greek name indicates. For, microscopic examination sliows that, in this case also, as in suppuration and gran- ulation on the surface of the bone, the small vessels that enter and escape from the bone with their enveloping connective'tissue are the seat of the new formation, which advances from the Haversian canals opening on the surface of the bone, and are the point of origin for the new formation of bone, which then spreads out under the perios- teum. Tliese ossifying granulation-nodules grow from within out- ward somewhat into tlie periosteum, and then the latter takes a secondary part in the process, as it seems to me. The form of the