CAECINOMATA. 707 inje, but must still insist upon classing tbem generally among cancers, for the following reasons: As you already know, among tumors the process of contracting’ is peculiar to cancers; moreover, the contract- ing cancer is not unfrequently combined with ordinary cancer; indeed, it is more common for more or less cancerous proliferation to go on along with the scu’rhous affection, while the wholly-cicatrizing cancers are relatively rare. This combination, which occurs neither in cirrho- sis of the liver nor of the kidney, speaks entirely for the near relation of this cicatrizing new formation to cancer ; in these combined eases there are also local recurrences of the extirpated tumors, tumors of the lymphatic glands, and even metastatic cancers of internal organs. In the tumors that consist chiefly of cicatricial substance, and hence are to be classed rather with scirrhus than with ordinary cancer, we may give a tolerable prognosis, inasmuch as the disease always runs a slow course. AYe now mention another form of cancer of the breast which also begins as an induration in the gland, but soon extends to the skip, and there, in the form of small nodules, quickly spreads over the whole skin of the anterior wall of the thorax; the second breast is often affected the same way. This cancer lenticularis [Schuh), squirrhe pustuleux ou dissemine ( Vel2Jeau), appears partly as a primary, partly as a recurring form after extiiqaation of hard cancer of the breast, and not exactly in old women. This small nodular (we might almost say tuberculated) form may, by confluence and contraction, lead to actual lacing in of the skin of the thorax from the front and sides (cancer en cuirasse; Velpeau); the course is slow, the tendency to metastases to internal organs is not great, but the prognosis is very bad, because every attempt to prevent local extension by operation is in vain. 3. Mucous membranes with cylindrical ep>itheli'um. Most cancers that form in the nose and antrum TIighmori, and gradually extend to the upper jaw, ethmoid and sphenoid bone, as well as into the orbit, start from the mucous membranes of the nose and antrum liighmori. The ciliated or non-ciliated epithelium of these membranes only ex- tends to the openings of the mucous glands, and even in the develop- ment of cancers of the glands at these points rarely grows into the deeper parts. It appears to be rather the acini of the gland itself from which the proliferation proceeds, for these cancers appear to be mostly composed of acini or tubuli, which have small or larger round cells, rarely cylinder-cells, still more rarely ciliated cells. The shape of the newly-formed acini and their size here differ enormously, but often