a69 SEPTICAEMIA. that dust-like bodies (as coal-dust) enter the lungs, and may thence reach the bronchial glands (thence also the blood), while a similar absorption from the walls of the intestines has not yet been observed or experimentally proved. Should tbe miasmata really be small fungi, that is, molecular bodies, from what has been said, it would seem very probable that the infection may take place through the respiration; if this should be proved, it might be of great practical consequence. Of late, many attempts have been made to determine what sub- stance in decomposing animal tissue is the true poisonous principle, and for this purpose putrid fluids have been treated chemically till some one body should be found which in the smallest dose should ex- cite the symptoms of septic poisoning. Thus Hergmann has produced a body of this nature from decomjaosing yeast, Avhich he calls sepsin. To prove that this body alone (whose presence Fischer could not prove in decomposing serum or pus) is the poison, it would be neces- sary to prove the innocuousness of all other bodies chemically formed during putrefaction. But this cannot be done ; sulphuretted hydro- gen, sulphuret of ammonium, butyric acid, leucin, and some other sub- stances, forming during the putrefaction of organic bodies, also act as septic poisons when injected into the blood ; so that I cannot enter into the laborious search for one body in the putrid fluids which shall bear all the blame of the injurious effects. It is very probable that in decomposing fluids, according to their qualities, degree of concentration, temperature, etc., very many different poisonous sub- stances may form, which I further imagine as going on changing till they reach some final terminal stage. Whether this terminal stage is always the same is still to be de- termined. Tliis is not the place to discuss such difficult questions exhaustively ; so far as my experience, observations, and studies go, I consider it at least probable that the septic matters are formed in the inflamed and gangrenous tissues, and pass to the blood as a de- veloped poison. Opposed to this view is another, that only a fer- ment goes to the blood fium the tissues (ifltimately from the air), which soon causes fermentation or decomposition {O.Weher). Ac- cording to this, the absorbed septic matters would not be in them- selves poisonous, but would develop poison in the blcod from its components. Of late this hypothesis is rendered more precise bv asserting tliat the ferment is coccus or bacteria (monads of llueter). I cannot agree to this, for I have never found micrococcus in the blood of pa- tients who afterward died of septiemmia, or Avho had already died of it. I must add that some time after tlio injection I could' not find these organisms in the blood of dogs into which I had injected putrid