27 TREATMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE—IJGATURE. Tlie number is great, although we use but few of them—only those that are the most certain. Here you have a field of surgical operation where quick and certain aid is required, so that the result must be unfailing. Still, the employment of these remedies requires practice; cool-blooded quiet, absolute certainty, and presence of mind, are the first requisites in dangerous haemorrhage. In such circumstances a surgeon may show of what metal he is made. Hmmostatics are divided into three chief classes: 1. Closure of the vessel by tying it—ligation. 2. Compression. 3. The remedies that cause rapid coagulation of blood, styptics (from arv^O), to contract). 1. The ligature may be applied in three ways, viz., as ligature of the isolated bleeding vessels, as mediate ligature of the latter with the surrounding soft parts, or as ligation in the continuity, i. e., liga- tion of the vessel at some distance from the wound. These varieties of ligation apply almost exclusively to arrest of arterial hmmorrhage. Venous haemorrhages rarely require ligation—it is only occasionally indicated in the large venous trunks; we avoid it whenever we can, as its results may be dangerous. We shall here- after inquire in what this danger consists, and at present speak only of the ligation of arteries. Let us suppose the simplest case; a small artery spurts from a wound: you first seize the artery, as much isolated as possible, best transversely, between the branches of a sliding forceps; then fasten the slide, and the bleeding is stopped. The sliding forceps are best made of German silver, as it rusts less readily than iron. There are many different varieties of these forceps, which are all so arranged that when closed they remain fixed in that position; the mechanism accom- plishing this closure varies greatly; the more simple it is, the better. It is interesting to follow the phases of development of this instru- ment since the days of Ambrose Par'e^ before it attained its present sim25le completeness. Of late small spring clamjrs are not unfre- quently employed to compress the bleeding arteries; these are very serviceable, if strongly made. Besides these pincettes, we may also use small curved sharp hooks [JBromJielcVs artery-hook) to draw out the artery, but this is not so good a way, for of course the blood would continue to spurt during the subsequent ligation. Having seized the artery securely, the next thing is to close it permanently; this is done by the ligature. But satisfy yourself first that you have not included a nerve with it, for the coincident ligation of a nerve may not only induce continued severe pain, but even dan- gerous general nervous affections. For ligating arteries we use silk thread of various thickness, according to the size of the artery; it must be good, strong silk, so that it shall not break when firmly tied; and it