208 SmrLE FRACTUliE OF BONES. The old form of plaster-moulds has been recently strongly advo- cated again by Dr. 31. 31aller; we have tried it again, but it bears no comparison with the plaster-bandage. Seiitin tried to increase the advantages of firm dressings by giving aids that might enable patients with fractured lower fimbs to go about to some extent. For instance, a patient with a broken leg may have a broad leather strap passing over the shoulder, and buckled just above the knee, so that the foot will not touch the floor, and then let him go on crutches. But I advise you not to carry these experi- a ments with your patients too far; at all events, I only allow my patients to make such attempts three weeks after the occurrence of the fracture, otherwise oedema readily occurs in the broken limb, and some patients are so clumsy in the use of crutches, that they are apt to fall, and, although this may only cause slight concussion of the limb, it is still injurious. Lastly, we have to discuss how long the dressing should be left on, and the causes that might induce us to remove it before the cure is complete. The decision as to whether a dressing is too tightly applied is entirely a matter of experience; tlie following symptoms 4 must guide the surgeon: If there be swelling of the lower part of j the limb, as of the toes or fingers, which are usually left exposed, if ’ these parts become bluish red, cold, or even senseless, the dressing ' should be removed at once. If the patient complains of severe pain , under the dressing, it is Avell to remove it, even if we can see nothing to cause it. In judging of the exhibitions of pain, we should know (. the patients; some always complain, others are very indolent, and show their feelings but little; however, it is better to reapply the bandage several times uselessly than once to neglect its removal at the right time. I cannot too strongly urge you always to visit, with- in twenty-four hours at most, every patient to whom you apply a fixed dressing; then your patient will certainly not come to grief, as un- . I fortunately too often happens, from the carelessness and laziness of I liis surgeon. A series of cases has been published where, after the I application of a firm dressing, the affected limb mortified, and re- || quired amputation; from these cases it was decided that firm dress- I ings were always improjier, while the fault was chiefly due to the } surgeon. Just think how little trouble we have in treating fractures ' now, compared to former times, when the splints had to be renewed every three or four days ; now you need only ap23ly a dressing once But you must not tliink you have got rid of all trouble in the appli- cation of dressings. The apifiication of the firm dressing requires just as much practice, dexterity, and care, as did dressing witli splints. If you are first called to a fracture when it is two or three i