256 GUXSHOT-WOUXDS. Fig. 58. c a, Chassepot; 5, needle-gun; c, mitrailleuse-projectiles. Natural size. differ much. Tlie Prussian long bullet, which is held in the cartiidge of the needle-gun, is a solid bullet of the form and size of an acorn. You must not think that the projectile, as found in the wound, has the same shape as when put in tlie gun ; but it is changed in form as it comes out of the rifles of the gun, and is also flattened in the wound, so that we often find it a shapeless mass of lead, which scarcely shows the form of the projectile. We shall now briefly consider the various injuries that may be caused by a bullet; in doing which, we shall naturally confine ourselves to the chief forms. In one set of cases the bullet makes no wound, but simply a con- tusion of the soft parts, accompanied by great suggillation and occa- sionally by subcutaneous fracture. According to recent authorities, simple subcutaneous fractures ai’e not very uncommon in war. These injuries are caused by spent bullets, i. e., such as come from a long dis- tance and have not force enough to penetrate the skin; such a bullet, striking over the liver, may push the skin before it and make a depres- sion in or a rupture of the liver, and then fall back without producing an external wound. Like injuries are caused by bullets striking the skin at a very oblique angle. Firm bodies, such as watches, pocket-books, coins, leather straps, on the uniform, etc., may also arrest the bullet. These contused wounds, which, especially when affecting the abdomen or thorax, may prove very dangerous, have always excited the atten- tion of surgeons and soldiers; formerly they were always referred to the so-called “ wind of the ball,” and it was thought that they were caused by the bullet passing very close to the body. The idea lhal injuries could be caused in this way was so firmly' established, that even very well-informed persons worried themselves in trying to e.x- plain theoretically how the}’’ resulted from the wind of the ball. One said that the air in front of and near the bullet was so comiiressed