TREATMENT OP BLOOD-EXTRAVASATIONS. 161 Diffuse blood-extravasations of the skin with moderate contusion of the soft parts are usually absorbed without much treatment. If a circumscribed extravasation does not change considerably in the course of a fortnight, there is nevertheless no indication for further interfer- ence. We then paint the swelling once or twice daily with dilute tincture of iodine, compress it with a suitable bandage, and not unfre- quently see the swelling gradually subside after several weeks. Should it become hot, and the skin over it grow red and painful, we must e.xpect suppuration; then even the continued application of cold will rarely change the course, though it may alleviate it. Then, in order to hasten the termination of the suppmation, which cannot be avoided, we may apply warm fomentations, either simply of folded muslin wet with warm water or cataplasms; now you quietly await the further course; if the general health be not impaired, but the pa- tient feels pretty well, you calmly await perforation; it will perhaps be weeks before the skin gradually becomes thinner at some point and finally opens, the pus is evacuated, the walls of the large cavity fall together, and in a short time the parts are all healed. At the commencement of this lecture I mentioned a case where, with a frac- tured scapula, there was an enormous partly diffuse, partly circum- scribed extravasation ; here there was a strongly-fluctuating tumor, which was not reabsorbed, while the diffuse effusion was rapidly re- moved ; the suppuration did not end in perforation till the fifth week, then one and a half to two quarts of pus were evacuated; a week later this enormous cavity was healed, and the patient left the hosjDi- tal well. Wliy we do not here interfere earlier and aid Nature by an incision, we shall consider more closely when we treat of abscesses. Should the tension of the swelling rapidly increase, however, dur- ing the suppuration of the extravasation, and high fever with chills occur, we may suppose that the blood and pus are decomposing, that there is putrefaction of the enclosed fluid. Fortunately, this is rare, and occurs almost exclusively where there is great crushing of the muscles or splintering of the bone. With such symptoms of course tlie putrid fluid should be quickly evacuated ; then you should make a lar(je incision through the skin, unless this be forbidden by the ana- tomical position of the parts; in which case several small incisions should be made at points where the fluid may escape freely and easily. Tliese incisions greatly alter the aspect of the case ; you have changed the subcutaneous contusion to an open contused wound. Now other conditions come into play, which we shall treat of in the next lecture. We must still mention that, if extensive putrefaction of the soft parts follows such contusions, amputation is indicated, although this unfortu- nate case rarely happens without coincident Iracture of the bones.