224 OPEN FRACTUKES AND SUPPURATION OF BONE. tion around the wound, I consider it necessary to apply ice, I remove a piece from the plaster-dressing, corresponding to tlie point where the ice-bladder is to be applied. In case of suppuration about the wound, openings are to be made for the escape of pus. The general principles as to the choice of the point for the opening is to make the counter-opening where fluctuation is most distinct, and where the soft parts are thinnest, where the J3us will escape most readily without jiressure from the finger. If we have to cut openings in the bandage, this may be done most easily two or three hours after its application. After making openings in the plaster-bandage corresponding to the wound, without disturbing the limb, we separate the wadding, remove the charpie, and bind the opening carefully ; then with a spatula we introduce wadding under the edges of the opening to prevent the secretion from the wound getting under the dressing. For more than a year I have heen leaving these wounds open also, and have been astonished at the success of this method of treatment. In the treatment of complicated fractures with plaster-dressings, very care« ful manipulation and the knowledge of a large number of details which can only be acquired at the bedside of the patient, are neces- sary ; the gift of inventing modifications of various forms of dressing is also necessary. The treatment of open fractures is often very diffi- cult ; every one employs in practice the method he has learned; it makes little difference whether we employ plaster, starch, or liquid- glass dressings; the essential thing is for the fragments to lie quiet and firm, and not to be moved by the dressings, then the patient will recover well and Avithout pain. The favorable experience of immer- sion in contused wounds of the hand and foot has induced some sur- geons to treat complicated fractures, of the leg and forearm at least, in the same way. In the Berlin surgical clinic they have tried keep- ing the fractured limb dressed with a fenestrated plaster-bandage, in a permanent water-bath; for this purpose the plaster must be made water-tight with cement, solution of shellac, liquid glass, collodium, or something of that sort. The results of this treatment are celebrated. But, should any suppurative inflammation occur about the AA^ound, in Avhich the water-bath is injurious, this method Avould appear to me less suitable than any other. In the treatment of open fractures Avith splints, Ave generally use straight, narrow wooden splints; in the lower extremity these are pro- vided Avith a suitable foot-piece. As we commenced speaking of the treatment of comjflicated frac- tures by describing the dressings, I must add a feAv AA'ords about the first examination. The diagnosis of complicated fractures is made like that of simple fractures. Passing the fingers into the wound i."*