CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 552 muscles, which contracted strongly as soon as the pain began. Hence, before trying to extend the anchyloses, it was often necessary to di- vide the tendons of the tense muscles; this complicated the operation. Moreover, the after-treatment was not correctly understood : the ex tended limb was bound to a splint, or held firmly by machinery; the consequences were severe inflammation and great swelling; the method did not become popular. Bouvier and Dieffenhach were al- most the only ones who occasionally resorted to it; other surgeons preferred to consider these patients as incurable, or to send them to orthopedists for gradual extension, or, if the patients were poor, to amputate the limb, so that they might have a Avooden leg to go about on more securely. So the matter stood till B. von Bangenheck in 1846 made the first attempt to extend an anchylosed knee-joint Avhile the patient Avas anesthetized. This showed the interesting fact that under anesthesia the contracted muscles become perfectly relaxed and pli- able, and may be stretched like india-rubber ; this rendered tenotomy and myotomy unnecessary in this operation. As anesthesia rendered the operation jaainless, it could be done more sloAvly and carefully, and AAuth the aid of the hands alone. The results Avere so very favor- able that this method, AA'hich in its new form scarcely deserved any longer the rather brutal name of “ brisement force,” soon became uni- versal, and noAv it has, perhaps, too much displaced extension by in- struments and Aveights. The method of the operation, the indications, the precautions to be observed, and the after-treatment, were gradually so perfected by B. von Langenbeck that this operation may be re- garded as one of the safest and simplest in surgery. To prcA'ent your being misled by the name “ brisement forc6,” and forming too horrible an idea of the operation, I Avill describe for you the exten- sion of a knee bent at right angles. At first the patient lies on his back, and is gradually anoesthetized so deeply that all the muscles are relaxed, and no reflex movements occur. When this state has been reached, the patient is turned on his belly; one assistant holds the head, another places his arm under the breast of the patient to facili- tate respiration; the pulse and breathing are carefully Avatched, for the operation must be interrupted at once if dangerous symptoms fol- loAV the deep anaesthesia. The patient, lying on his face, is to be draAvn toward the loAver end of the operating-table till the knee comes to the edge of the table, Avhich should be covered by a firinly- stufled horse-hair cushion. Now an assistant Avith both hands presses as strongly as possible on the thigh; the operator stands at the outer side of the left (anchylosed) knee, places his left hand in the popliteal space, so as to dejAress the thigh, and the right on the posterior surface of the leg, corresponding to the posterior surface of the con-