TREATMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE—COMPRESSION. 31 rifving operation for the patient, especially on account of the strong secondary pressure made on the larynx and trachea; hence it is rarely emploj’ed. Compression of the subclavian artery may be more frequently re- quired, especially in wounds of this artery in Mohrenheirn’s fossa and in the axilla. In this operation also you may best stand behind the recumbent or half-sitting patient; with your left hand incline the head of the patient toward the wounded (right) side, and push your right thumb firmly behind the outer border of the clavicular portion of the relaxed stemo-cleido-mastoid muscle, so that you may firmly compress the artery against the first rib, at the point where it passes forward between the scaleni muscles. Here also pressure is painful, from the liability of the brachial plexus of nerves to be included in the com- 'pression; still, by employing sufficient force, we may completely com- press the artery so as to arrest pulsation of the radial. But the thumb soon grows tired and loses sensation; hence various aids have been de- vised—instruments by which the compression may be made certainly. One of the most convenient means is a short thick key whose wards are wrapped in a handkerchief and the handle held firmly in the palm of the hand; you place the wards of the key over the artery, and compress it firmly against the first rib. But this cannnot fully replace compression by the finger of a skilled assistant, for with the instrument you of course cannot feel if the artery slides away from the pressure. From its position the brachial artery may of course be readily compressed ; in doing this, 5'ou place yourself on the outer side of the arm, take the arm in your right hand, so as to lay the second, third, and fourth fingers along the inner side of the belly of the biceps, about the middle of the arm or a little above it, surround the rest of the arm with the thumb, and press against the humerus with the fingers; the only difficulty here is, to avoid simultaneous compression of the median nerve, which at this point almost covers the arter}?-. By com- pressing the brachial artery, we may readily arrest the radial pulse, and we may employ this compression with great advantage if we de- sire to ligate either the radial or ulnar artery on account of wounds, or to amputate at the foreaim or the lower part of the arm. In haamorrhages from the arteries of the lower extremities we com- press i\\e femoral artery at its commencement, that is, immediately below Poupart's ligament. Here, where it lies just in the middle be- tween the tuberculum pubis and anterior inferior crest of tlie ileum, the artery should be pressed against the horizontal branch of the pubis. Tlie patient should be recumbent; compression should be made with the thumb, and is easy, because at this point tlie artery is superficial. As far down as the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artciy mav