331 GANGRiENA SENILIS. curring in the toes, rarely in the fingers, as I once saw. There are two chief forms: in one of them a brown spot forms on one toe; it soon becomes black, and gradually spreads till the whole toe becomes completely dry. In favorable cases a line of demarcation forms at the phalango-metatarsal articulation, the toe falls off, and the wound cicatrizes. But the mummification may go higher and limit itself in the middle of the foot, above the malleoli, in the middle of the leg, or just below the knee. In another series of cases, the disease be- gins with symptoms of inflammation, cedematous swelling of the toes, very great pain, and dark, bluish-red color, which subsequently be- comes black; there are stages of the disease where, by the bluish-red, mottled appearance of the skin, we may see that in one place the cir- culation is carried on with the greatest difficulty, while elsewhere it has already ceased ; this struggle between life and death the French have not inaptly compared to death by asphyxia, and termed asphyxia locale. In this form of moist, hot gangrene, the disease usually attacks several toes at once, and extends to the foot, till in the course of a few weeks the entire foot, perhaps also the leg, becomes gangrenous; at the same time decomposition soon begins in the cedematous sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, and the danger of absorption of putrid mat- ter through the lymphatic vessels is much greater than in the process of mummification. The seat of the disease of the arteries that leads to spontaneous gangrene varies; in acute (marasmic) gangrcena seyiilis, tlae primary coagulation due to feeble circulation occurs in the capil- . laries and thence extends backward to the arteries. The feebleness of the arterial circulation may be due to various causes: 1. To di- minished energy of the heart’s action; 2. To thickening of the walls of the arteries and contraction of their calibre; 3. To degeneration of the muscular coat of the smaller arteries. In some cases all of these causes unite, for, in old persons with feeble heart-action, diseases of the arteries are the most frequent; besides, affections of the heart and arteries usually have a common constitutional cause. This is not the place to discuss extensively how far rigidity and atheroma of the coats of the artery are to be referred to inflammation, or to be re- garded as a peculiar disease; nor can I permit myself to discuss further the distinctions of the finer histological points, of which Ave shall have something to say when treating of aneurisms, but Avill simply mention that in old persons the coats of the arteries are often thickened, and deposits of chalk form in them to such an extent that the whole artery is calcified and the calibre considerably dimininished by the thickening of the walls, and the inner surface becomes rough, so as to dispose to the fixation of blood-clots. The original qualities of the arteries arc thus lost to such an extent that they are neither