GANGRENE. 328 the return of blood, viz., the deep and subcutaneous veins, vhich communicate freely; if one way be closed, the other will be at least partly open. When dry gangrene occurs in the skin and deeper soft jiarts, they usually assume a grayish-black, then a coal-black hue. In cases Avhere the parts were previously inflamed, the skin appears at first dark violet, then wliitish yellow, it only becomes brownish or grayish black in case of partial drying; dead tendons and fasciae change their color little. When, from disturbance of the circulation, a considerable portion of tissue ceases to be nourished, the border be- tween dead and living regularly becomes more distinctly marked; around the dead skin there forms a bright-red line, the so-called line of demarcation. This redness is caused by distention of the capillary vessels, which is partly due to collateral circulation in them, partly to fluxion induced by the decomposing fluids, and exactly resembles the redness around the edges of a wound with loss of substance, especially of a contused wound, as we have already explained. Along with these changes in the vessels there is an active cell-infiltration in the line of demarcation, by which the tissue, whatever its nature may be, is partly softened and dissolved. All over the borders of tlie living tissue young cells in the form of jsus appear in place of the firm tissue, and then the coherence of the parts ceases. The dead becomes de- tached from the living, and on the borders of the latter there is a layer of tissue changed by infiltration of plastic mutter and ectasia of the vessels, granulations. To express this simply in surgical language we say : The dead tissue must be thrown oflf from the living by free sup- puration, and this detachment of the dead tissue is followed by active granulations which cicatrize in the usual manner. This process repeats itself in all tissues, in all forms of gangrene, sometimes quicker, some- times more slowly, in exactly the same way, even in bones, as you know from the necrosis of the ends of the bone in open fractures. But we shall not here treat of gangrene of bones, as it is so intimately connected with their other chronic diseases that we shall have to speak of it when treating of them. The time required for the detachment of the dead tissue may vary greatly. It depends: 1. On the size of the dead portion; 2. On the vascularity and consistence of the tissue ; 3. On the strength and vitality of the patient. As gangrene is usually the result of other diseases, it is not always easy to correctly group the s3'mptoms which are to be referred to it. If the line of demarcation has formed, and the jjrocess of detjichment is going on, an effect on tlie general health is apparent when the gangrene affects large extremities. Then there is a general marasmus, a gradual loss of strength, depression of the bodily temperature, small pulse, dry tongue, a half-soporose state in which the patient grows