PY/EMIA. 373 here it is not very necessary to do so any more than it is to treat of embolic infarctions and putrid abscesses, which are exceiDtionally found in septicaemia when the patients resist the disease a long time, and venous thrombi have occurred about the wound or gangrenous spot. As nothing special has been found on chemical analysis of the blood from the bodies of such cases, it must be acknowledged that what w-e post mortem adds little that is characteristic to the picture of the disease, which is essentially etiologico-sym.ptomatological; if we have not seen the patient during life, we shall often examine the dead body in vain for some palpable cause of death.“* 3. Stqjpurative Fever^ Pyaemia.—Pyaemia (the name was formed by Piorry from ttuov, pus, and alya, blood) is a disease which w^e sujjpose to be due to the absorption of pus or its constituents into the blood; it holds the same relation to simple inflammatory and suppurative fever that septicaemia does to simple primary traumatic fever; it is symptomatologically characterized by intermittent attacks of fever, and in its pathological anatomy by the frequency of metastatic abscesses and metastatic diffuse inflammations. Other names for this disease are: metastatic suppurative dyscrasia, pus disease, purulent diathesis. To give you at once an approximate picture of this disease, I will describe for you a case of pyaemia. A wounded patient enters the hospital with a compound fracture of the leg just above the ankle. The injury has resulted from the fall of a heavy body. You examine the wound, find an oblique frac- ture of the tibia, but consider the injury of such a nature that it may heal. So you apply a dressing ; at first the patient feels very well; he has but little fever till about the third or fourth day, then the wound becomes more inflamed, secretes relatively little pus, the sur- rounding skin becomes oedematous and red, the patient grows verj' feverish, especially toward ev^ening, the swelling about the wound in- creases and slowly spreads, the whole leg grows swollen and red, the ankle-joint very painful; on pressure over the leg, a thin, bad-smell- ing pus flows slowly from the wound; the swelling remains limited to the leg; there is no trouble of the mind, no sign of intense, acute septiemmia; the patient is exceedingly sensitive to every dressing, he is restless and discouraged; there is febris continua remittens, witli high evening temperature, and frequent, full, tense pulse; the appe- tite is lost, and tlie tongue heavily coated. This w'ould be about the twelfth day after the injury. Quantities of pus flow from diflerent parts of the wound; somewhat above it fluctuation is distinct; this collection of pus may be evacuated through the wound by careful j)ress- ure, but the escape is greatly impeded, and an incision must be made at the aljove point. This being done, a moderate quantity of pus is