15G CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. is to be applied around the part to be removed, and tlien drawn slow- ly into a strong metal frame by means of a ratch arrangement. When the instrument is properly used it causes absolutely no hajmor- rhage. Little favor as the instrument at first found among surgeons, from their dislike to contused wounds in operative surgery, there is no doubt of its advantages in suitable cases. Wounds caused by ecrasement usually heal with very little local or general reaction ; co- incident inflammations occur less frequently with this class of Avounds than with pure incised wounds. Nevertheless ecrasement will always be limited to a small number of operations. There is another factor for limiting the hgemorrhages in extensive contusions, that is, the weakening of the heart’s action caused by the probably due to reflex action. Persons badly injured, besides Buffei’ing from loss of blood and injury of the nerve-centres, are usually for a time in a state of numbness or stupor; the word most commonlj' used to express this state of depression is “shock.” The fi-ight from the injury and all thoughts about it, Avhich follow in rai^id succession, unite in producing great psychical depression, Avhich has a paralyzing effect on the heart’s action. Still, even in persons not greatly af- fected psychically by the injury, as old soldiers Avdio have often been Avounded, or very phlegmatic persons, a severe injury is not entirely without this effect, so that we must suppose that there are purely physical causes for shock. Contusions of the abdomen have an even more depressing effect on the nerve-centres than do those of the ex- tremities, as I have already told you. In this connection the so-called beating-experiment (Klopfversuch) of Golz is very interesting: if we repeatedly strike a frog sharply on the belly Avith the handle of a scalpel, he becomes as it were paralytic; as a result of paresis of their Avails, the abdominal vessels distend greatly and take up almost all the blood, so that all the other vessels and even the heart become blood- less, and the latter only contracts feebly. When the patient has recovered from this state of psychical and physical deioression, the heart begins to act Avith its former or even greater energy, then hfemorrhages may occur from A'essels that had not previously bled. This variety of secondary hasmorrhage occurs after operations, Avhen the effect of the anaesthetic has passed off. Hence the patient should be carefully Avatched at this time, to guard against such secondary hemorrhages, especially if, from the locality of the in- jury, there be reason to suspect that a large artery has been injured. Noav we must again examine someAvhat more attentively the local changes in the Avound. Although doubtless the processes that take place in the contused wound, the changes on its surface and final healing, must be essentially the same as in incised Avounds, still in the appearances in the two cases