398 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. of the disease and the patient. Nothing certain is known about the origin; since it is more frequent in some regions than others, it has been thought that the soil and food had some effect. The intestinal secretions are mixed with tlie dung of the animals, and their poison- ous effects have been proved. If such dung be spread over the land, and, either fresh or dried on hay, be eaten by other animals, they may be attacked by the disease. Transfer of the affection to man is most often through the matter of the pustule; if this or the dried skin of the dead animal be brought in contact with the skin of man, even if it is uninjured, the poison may enter through a hair-follicle or sweat-gland; the result is a pus- tule, at first unnoticed, then itching and burning, in the centre of which a black blood-blister soon forms ; high fever soon comes on. In bad cases the cutaneous inflammation early assumes the character of carbuncle, terminating quickly in gangrene, and if left to itself the disease is usually fatal. Internally we give the ordinary antiseptics ; the anthrax itself is to be energetically attacked by incision, excision, caustic potash, nitric acid, etc. If the patient comes under treatment earl}’- and there is no intense blood-poisoning, there is hope of cure ; if the pus- tule is fully developed and septic symptoms have begun, death is certain. Recent observations show that infection in veterinary sur- geons from post-mortem examinations of diseased animals does not have such a dangerous course, but often gives rise to a phlegmon of medium intensity, which may pass off in a few days with sealing off of the skin. Quite lately Leube and W. Muller have described cases where severe intestinal inflammation ending fatally followed the use of flesh from animals that had died of carbuncle. According to Bol- linger, the milk of cows with this disease proves infectious to man. It is still a disputed question whether malignant pustule may also develop primarily in man; whether the malignant carbuncle de- scribed in Lecture XXL always comes from infection, or may come spontaneously from the same causes as in animals. Eminent sur- geons and veterinarians have investigated this subject; inoculations of secretion from malignant carbuncles of man on animals have proved very uncertain ; observations have been contradictor}’- ; in short, the relation of these different forms of carbuncle and pustules to each other, in regard to their etiology, has not yet been cleared up. Of late the view that the septic poison of carbuncle is associated with certain small organisms is gaining ground. Buvaine especially holds that the bacteria (first described by Pollender in 1855) quite constantly found in the blood of living animals with carbuncle, or of those that have died of this disease, arc the cause of the aflection.