TREATMENT OF BONE ABSCESSES. 477 well, but this does not continue; you already know the subsequent course. The case is somewhat different when we have to deal with small abscesses originating in disease of hones of the extremities ; in suppu- rations connected with the larger joints, we also willingly postpone opening; we shall speak of this hereafter, under diseases of the joints. In cold abscesses from the diaphyses delay is not of much avail ; here I rather consider an early opening as proper, except in syphilitic gummata; in these cases there may be reabsorption, even after there is eiddent fluctuation, and in markedly tuberculous or debilitated persons, in them no operative interference is indicated, and opening the abscess would only induce profuse suppuration, without doing any good. In the other cases I am in favor of opening the abscess freely, to obtain a clear view of the variety and extent of the disease; under these circumstances the reaction is insignificant, frequently there is no fever, often there is moderate fever for a short time. Let us supjDose a chronic periostitis with caries superficialis of the diaphysis of a hollow bone; an abscess has formed and been opened ; the wound is at first dressed with charpie, and we then wait to see what appear- ance the surface of the ulcer will assume. The local treatment should be modified according as the ulcer is proliferating or accompanied by breaking down of tissue, and I should only be repeating, were I to refer again to the proper remedies. The treatment may be aided by local baths, which we may render slightly irritant by the addition of potash or tincture of iodine. Wet compresses, cataplasms, charpie- wads wet with various fluids, serve as dressings. The subsequent course vdll show more and more to what extent the bone-disease de- pends on the general health. If the patient be a weakly, tuberculous individual, all local remedies are in vain ; if the general health be good, you may even resort to energetic local treatment. If the ulcer does not improve under milder remedies, you may apply the hot iron ; should this be followed by formation of strong, healthy granulations, it is a favorable sign, even if there be neci-osis of the carious portion of bone. In other cases we abandon all idea of inducing healing, and cut out the entire affected part. For this purpose there are various forms of cutting forceps and saws ; I prefer detaching the diseased bone with scrapers, gouges, and hammer, to all other methods. If the ulcer of the bone has been cleanly cut out, and the general health be tolerably good, it is to be hoped that the wound of the bone made in the opera- tion will heal normally by healthy granulation and suppuration, as other wounds of bone do. Should the caries affect a small bone, it may be proper simply to extirpate it, to arrest the process at once. If the case be one of ostitis interna, caries centralis of a hollow bone, 82