VARIOUS FORMS OF BULLET-WOUNDS. 255 the troops marched to meet the enemy at a parade-step, the move- ments of the army were very tedious and slow ; the large armies had immense trains; for instance, in the Thirty Years’ War, the lancers car- ried along their wives and children in innumerable wagons ; hence, in the medical arrangements pertaining to the train, there was no nC' cessity for greater facilities of motion. The tactics started by Fred- erick the Great required greater mobility of the heavy trains, which, however, was only practically carried out in the French army under Napoleon. As long as a small province remained the seat of war during a whole campaign, a few large hospitals in neighboring cities might suffice; but, when armies moved about rapidly and had a fight now here now there, it became necessary to furnish more movable, so-called field hospitals, not far from the field of battle, and which could be readily moved from place to place. These ambulances, or flying hospitals, are the idea of one of the greatest of surgeons, Lar- rey, of whom we have already spoken. As I shall shortly tell you what is done Avith the wounded from the time they are injured till they enter the general hospital, I will here dismiss this subject, and only mention some of the many excellent works on military surgery. Especially interesting, not only medically but historically, are the somew'hat length)' “ Memoirs of Larrey,” in which I especially recom- mend to you the Egyptian and Russian campaigns. These memoirs contain all Napoleon’s campaigns. Another excellent work we have in English literature, John Ilennei'Cs “ Princiioles of Military Sur- gery ; ” and in German, besides many other excellent -works, -u'e liave The Maxims of Military Surgery,” by Stromeyer, which is composed chiefly of experiences in the Schleswig-Holstein War; and, lastly, “ Principles of General Military Surgery, from Reminiscences in the Crimea and Caucasus, and in the Hospital,” by Di'. Pirogoff. Wounds caused by large missiles, such as cannon-balls, grenades, l)ombs, shrapnel, etc., are partly of such a nature that they kill at once, in other cases tear off whole extremities, or so shatter them that am- putation is the only remedy. The extensive tearing and crushing caused by these shot do not differ from other lan-ge crushed wounds caused by machinery, which unfortunately now so often occur in civil practice. Musket-balls used in juodern warfare differ in some respects: while the small copper bullets with which the Circassians shoot are scarcely larger than our so-called buckshot, large, hollow, leaden bul- lets were used in the late Italian War; these were mucli larger than the old-fashioned ones, and were particularly dangerous, because they readily broke upon striking a bone or tense tendon. Besides these, the solid round and conical bullet are used, but their effects do not