259 C-VRE OF THE WOUNDED. si)ot. The ambulance corps has proved so efficient in late wars that it will certainly be more tnisted to in future. It is composed of nurses trained to bring the wounded from the field, and, when neces- sary, to give them temporary aid, as in arresting bleeding from arte- ries and wounds, etc. They have been trained to carry a patient between two of them, either without other support, or on an impro- vised litter. For this latter purpose they usually carry a lance and a piece of cloth longer and broader than the body. The lances are 23assed through hems along the sides of the cloth, and a barrow is thus made; bayonets or swords may be used as jDrovisional splints for suj^porting a limb that has been badly shot. The wounded are thus brought to the dressing-place, and the first dressings are applied; these remain on till the jDaticnt reaches the nearest field-hospital. At the same time hmmorrhage must be securely arrested, and injured limbs so arranged that transportation may do no harm; bullets, for- eign bodies, and loose splinters of bone near the surface, should be removed, if it can be done quickly and readily. Limbs that have been entirely crushed by large shot should be at once amputated, if a dressing cannot be so applied as to render transiDortation possible. The chief object of this dressing-jDlace is to render the wounded transportable; hence it is not proper to do many or tedious operations there. From the great pressure of the constantly-increasing throng from the front, only the most important cases can be attended to here, and Pirogoff is right, though it seems cruel, when he says the sur- geons should not exhaust their strength on the mortally wounded and the dying. But, if possible, every patient, when carried to the field-hospital, should receive a short -written account of what was found at the first examination; a card, containing a few words, thrust into one of his pockets is enough. The chief point is to tell whether the ball has been extracted, whether a wound of the breast or abdo- men is perforating, etc., which will save time to the surgeon at the hospital and pain to the patient. Part of the ambulance corps has the further duty of placing the wounded pro^jerly in wagons for fur- ther transportation, under direction of the surgeon. For this purpose there are special ambulances, constructed most variously, which take some patients lying down, others sitting up. There are rarely enough of these, and it is often necessary to use common wagons, covered with hay, straw, etc. These wagons convey the wounded to the next field-hospital, which is established in a neighboring city or town • for it the largest attainable rooms should be taken. School-houses churches, or barns, may be seized, although the latter are the best. In these places beds are prepared with straw, a few mattresses, and bedclothes. Surgeons and nurses await anxiously tl'.c arrival of the