627 LIPOMATA, CHONDROMATA. n^here fifty or more, usually small lipomata, were developed at once; subsequently they ceased to grow. Multiple lipomata are often mixed tumors. Simple lipoma is never infectious; hence it never recurs after extirpation. Pressure and friction are occasionally observed as exciting causes for the development of fatty tumors; there is also a moderate degree of hereditary influence in fatty disease generally. The diagnosis of lipoma is generally easy; the consistence, the lobular feel, occasionally a perceptible crackling, from compression of individual fat-lobules, are the objective symptoms; other aids for con- firming the diagnosis are, the movability of the tumor, the slow groAvth, age of the patient, and, above all, the region of the body; there is a possibility of mistaking them for fibrous tumors, sarcomata, lipomatous-cavernous blood-tumors. The treatment consists in removal with the knife. Healing is usually preceded by free discharge of gangrenous tissue from the wound; in very large lipomata it is best alvvaj^s to remove a portion of the skin covering it, with the tumor; after their extirpation erysipelas is quite frequent, especially in very fat patients. The largest lipomata may be removed Avith good result, as they usually occur in persons otherwise healthy. Extirpation of diffuse lipomata is more unfavor- able than that of the circumscribed ; the local and general reaction is usually more considerable, but I have several times performed such operations Avith good results. 3. CHONDROMATA—CARTILAGE-TUMORS. These are tumors consisting of cartilage, of the hyaline or fibrous variety. The microscopic elements of pathological, ncAvly-developed cartilage may vary; occasionally Ave see exceedingly beautiful round cartilage-cells, such as are particularly found in the embryo, and some- what smaller in the articular and costal cartilage; but such a comjilete change of hyaline substance to a homogeneous mass, as is the rule in normal cartilage, is more rare in chondromata; frequently the inter- cellular substance pertaining to the different groups of cells is distinct, and betAveen the large groups of cells the hyaline substance forms fine filaments. The latter is the cause of sections of cartilage-tumors having the appearance of being traversed by capsular-like, communi- cating connective-tissue meshes, Avhich even to the naked eye shoAv a kind of net-Avork; the bluish or yellowish glistening cartilage is seen embedded betAveen tljese connective-tissue strias. The tissue of chon- droma also distinguishes itself from that of normal cartilage by the fact that the form.er is usually vascular in the aboAm-mentioned fibrous striie, Avhile, as is avcU knoAvn, the latter has no Amssels. The