TUMORS. 610 g-iven case, while iii another case, perhaps under apparently similar ch'cumstances, it merely excites simple inflammation, still I have com- municated a series of facts which teach that, in the anatomical compo- sition of different parts, certain continuous disturbances may exist which interfere with the occurrence of regulating processes, and which, from an irritation that at another spot would have induced a simple inflammation, excite an irritation fromAvhich the specific tumor IS developed.” Among facts “ which teach that, in the anatomical com- position of different parts, certain continuous disturbances maj’’ exist ” which dispose, to development of tumors, Virchow mentions advanced age. It is iDerfectly true that certain forms of tumors are very fre- quently found on particular parts of the body in old persons, e. g., can- cer of the lip. Thiersch calls attention to the fact that in the lips of old men the connective tissue is often so much atrophied that the epi- thelial tissues (sebaceous, SAveat, and mucous glands, hair-follicles, etc.) become very prominent, and, as it Avere, receive the preponderance of nutrition; that hence irritation shows itself chiefly in the proliferation of these ei^itlielial formations, and that this explains the frequent oo currence of epithelial cancer in the lips of old men. I fully recognize the shreAvd combination of these observations, but I must add that advanced age is just as much a general as a local peculiarity of the body. It is also stated by Virchoio that places which have been the seat of an inflammatory disease, Avhich has left the part AAmakened, also, cicatrices, furnish foci for the development of tumors. This is undoubtedly true; but if Ave compare the innumerable cases Avhere simple chronic inflammation occurs in parts that have been acutely diseased, and Avhere simple ulceration occurs in cicatrices, the cases in which tumors occur at such points appear very small, and it must be acknoAvledged that in these feAV cases Ave may assume a specific p>rc- disposition Avhich leads to formation of tumors. The same holds good for the fact that tumors are particularly apt to form in organs Avhich complete their formation and development late in life; here Virchoio classes the articular ends of the bone (Avhich, hoAvever, are the seat of tumors much more rarely than of chronic inflammations), the mammary glands, the uterus, ovaries, testicles, etc. While fully recognizing the exercise of observation and brilliant ideas by Avhicli it is a ttempted to prove the purely local disposition to deAmloiAinent of tumors, I cannot consider the proof as at all convincing, but re- main of the opinion that tJoereis just as much a specific predisposition to the development of tumors as there is to chronic inflammations^ with proliferation of the infiammatory new formation, with supp>ura- tion, with caseous degeneration, etc. To what has just been said we must add that we cannot ahvays