284 ACUTE NON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT PARTS. vicinity of an artery, the danger of destruction of the arterial walls is more apparent than real, as is shown by experience.*" After the ex- tensive throwing off of the cellular tissue, and the final arrest of the process in the periphery, healthy and usually very luxuriant granula- tions develop; healing goes on in the usual manner, and is accom- plished in a time corresponding to the size of the granulating surface. You will have already noticed that the process of formation of furuncles and carbuncles differs from the inflammations with which you are already acquainted, by the constant and peculiar death of portions of skin; and I have mentioned that this gangrene of the skin, at first very small, is the primary and local cause of furuncles and carbuncles. Of course, this must be induced by an early, per- haps primary, occlusion of small arteries, possibly of the vascular net-work around the sebaceous glands, without our knowing on what final cause this latter depends. The course of the ordinary carbuncle on the back is tedious and painful, although it rarely causes death. But there are cases, especially when the carbuncle or a diffuse carbunculous inflammation occurs in the face or head, wh^ch are, accompanied by high fever and septic or, as was formerly said, “ typhous ” symptoms, and which prove danger- ous and are even generally fatal (carbunculus maligna, pustula malig- na). All carbuncles of the face are not of this malignant character; some run the usual com’se, and only leave a disfiguring cicatrix; but, as it is difficult and often impossible to tell how the case wiU turn out, I would advise you always to be very careful about the progno- sis, Unfortunately, I have had such sad experience in these carbun- cles of the face, that in any affection of the kind I am very solicitous about the life of the patient. Let me briefly narrate a case or two. In a young, strong, healthy man, on a journey to Berlin, from some unknown cause a painful swelling-began in the lower lip; it increased rapidly, and soon spread to the whole lip, while the patient became very feverish. The surgeon who was called applied cataplasms, and apparently undervalued the condition of the patient, as he did not see him for two days. The third day the face was greatly swollen and the patient had a severe chill, and was quite delirious when brought to the chnic. I found the lip dark bluish-red with numerous white gan grenous patches in the skin. Several incisions were made at once, tl e wounds were dressed with chlorine-water, cataplasms applied, and a bladder of ice placed on the head, as meningitis was beginning. As soon as I saw the patient, I declared his condition hopeless ; he soon fell into a deep stupor, and died twenty-fbur hours later, four days after the’ commencement of the carbuncle on the lower lip. Unfor- tunately, an autopsy was refused. I will mention another case: A