63 PLASTIC INFILTRATION. tated state, and consequently this observation must give place to the studies on living connective tissue. But in hyaline cartilage there is no such acute suppuration or infiltration of pus as in connective tissue. I will again repeat that I only consider a renovation and proliferation of connective tissue and cornea] cells as improbable in those cases where the protoplasm has been entirely metamorphosed even to the nucleus, that is, the sta- bile connective tissue and corneal granules of grown animals whose tissues resemble those of man. It has never been doubted that pro- toplasm, when it exists as such in cells, that is, in growing tissues of young individuals, may increase and divide up; inattention to these points may have given rise to some of the differences in the views above stated. The same is true of epithelial tissues ; it has never been maintained that the cells of fully-developed epithelial tissue, the elements of the hair, nails, epidermis, and upper layer of flat epithelium, could be renovated by irritation, while it is not denied that constant increase of the young elements of these tissues is a physiological necessity for their growth ; here the only difference is that growth of these epithelial tissues continues during life, while that of connective tissues only goes on to a certain age, and hence, after cessation of the growth, wandering cells are the only young elements found in these tissues. If it be now established beyond doubt that most of the young cells which infiltrate the inflamed tissue and sometimes escape from it as pus, as we shall hereafter see, are white blood-cells, or briefly wcindsvincf cells, then two questions arise r W^hy do so many cells wander into inflamed tissue ? How do such numbers of them get into the blood, and whence do they come? Tlrere are different views as to the mode of escape of wandering cells through the walls of vessels. My views are as follows: The first change that Ave see in inflamed tissues during life is dilatation of the vessels ; the immediate result of this is increased transudation and a collection of white blood-cells along the periphery of the vessel. Then the wall of the vessel is gradually softened by some unexplained chemical process that goes on in every inflammation, so that by their active mov'ements the white blood-cells gradually enter and finally pass through it. Hence dilatation of the vessels, accumulation of white cells along the walls of the vessels, and softening of the walls, seem to me°to be the requirements for extensive emigration of cells. Cohnhelm and Hamud have lately announced the same opinion. Whence come the immense number of white blood-cells tliat escape in inflammation is entirely a physiologicjil question. The lymphatic glands and the