490 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE FERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. many details, which would now confuse you. If you bear in mind the above-described course of necrosis in the hollow bones, you will have the opportunity of learning in the clinic all the deviations that may occur in any case, from peculiar circumstances, for necrosis is a relatively frequent disease of the bones. I cannot leave the anatomy of necrosis and the regeneration of bone accompanying it, without mentioning an excellent French worker who has spent many years in the study of the osteoplastic power of the periosteum, and has nobly earned forward the preAUOus works of Troja, Flourens, B. Heine, A. Wagner, and others, on this subject: I mean Ollier, who, with untiring zeal, has pursued this study experimentally and cHnically, and has closed it up for a long time; I have repeated part of his experiments, and can only confirm the idea that under certain circumstances, in young animals, preseiw-ation of the periosteum decidedly favors the reproduction of bone. In the course of these lectures I have already stated my opinion regarding the osteoplastic power of human periosteum, especially as compared with other soft parts surrounding the bones, and hitherto I have found these views confirmed by every new experience. Quite recently J. Wolff, who was already distinguished by his careful provings of Ollier’s experiments, has advanced some entirely new and interesting views on the growth of bone. We now pass to the symptoms and diagnosis of necrosis. Dis- ease of the bone is called necrosis from the time it becomes evident that a part or the whole of a bone is dead, till the sequestrum is re- moved ; the subsequent healing of the ca-vdty in the bone is usually a simple development of healthy granulations with suppuration, which may, it is true, assume an ulcerative character. Now, the question arises. How shall Ave know that a part is necrosed? This may be very simple in some cases, especially where the necrosed bone is exposed, that is, in all cases where necrosis folloAVS uncovering of the bone; the dead bone looks quite white, but in some places it be- comes blackish, like other dried, necrosed parts. Gangrene of the bone, as far as regards the bone-substance, may remain as dry gan- grene ; the soft parts in the bone, the vessels, connective tissue, and medulla, may, however, like other soft parts, be attacked by dry or moist gangrene; perfect dryness occurs in most cases where the Ixjne is uncovered, exposed to the air; hence this superficial necrosis is rarely a process of decomposition, seldom accompanied by b.ad smells. In deeply-situated necrosis, as in that of a whole diaph^’sis or of a sawed or fractured surface, which is embedded in soft parts, there is