32 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. be compressed against the femur, but this can only be done certainiv by the finger in very thin persons; in most cases we employ for this purpose a special compress called a tourniquet. By a tourniquet we mean an apparatus by which we press an elongated oval piece of wood or leather, a pad, against an artery, and this against the bone, by means of a twisting, screwing, or buckling mechanism. Since a long eompression of the brachial or femoral ar- teries is very fatiguing, we may advantageously call it to aid in com- pressing these arteries. The form of instrument that we now employ is the screw tourniquet of Jean Louis Petit. Tlie pad, which is mov- able on a band, is to be applied exactly over the point corresponding to the artery, and opposite the screw, under which a few folds of linen are to be placed, to prevent too great pressure on the skin. Then buckle the band around the extremity, and by means of the screw and* band draw the pad tighter till the subjacent artery ceases to pulsate. In an amputation-wound, if we do not at once see the mouth of the artery, we may loosen the screw slightly and permit a little blood to escape from the artery, which at once shows its position; then screw up the tourniquet at once, and ligate the artery. This is the great ad- vantage of the screw. When the apparatus is well made and careful- ly applied, it is of excellent service. It is true, the band around the limb unavoidably compresses the veins, especially the subcutaneous veins; nevertheless, on account of the pad, it acts chiefly on the artery. With a piece of broad bandage and a round block of. wood, or a roller of bandage and a short stick, you may readily imjDrovise such a tour- niquet; still, if this improvised apparatus does not secure the artery very firmly and securely, I should advise more certain modes of com- pression, of which I shall speak immediately. The facility of check- ing even considerable hEemorrhages by means of the tourniquet, might dehide us into leaving it on for a long while, until the bleeding stopped of itself, and we should thus escape the trouble of ligating. This would be a great error. If the tourniquet remains on half an horn*, the extremity below it grows blue, swells, loses sensation, and circulation in the part may be entirely arrested, and it will die; through your whole life you would blame yourself for such an error, which might greatly endanger the life of your patient. Hence, application of the tourniquet is only admissible as a pro- visional hmmostatic. It is almost impracticable to compress a large artery with the finger till the hmmorrhage shall be certainly arrested spontaneously. Still, cases may arise where compression with the linger is the only certain mode of arresting bleeding from smaller ar- teries, as in haemorrhages from the rectum or deep in the pharynx, when other means have failed; here, compression with the fingci