247 REDUCTION OF DISLOCATIONS. who did not u;e chloroform. These are as follows : If the patient is tried too long with these powerful remedies, he may suddenly collapse and die; moreover, the limb may become gangrenous from the press- ure of the straps, or there may be subcutaneous rupture of large nerves and vessels, and consequent paralysis, traumatic aneurism, extensive suppuration, and other dangerous local accidents. The results of pressure from the aiDpliances may best be avoided by applying a moist roller-bandage from below upward, and fastening the straps over this. Since a regular pressure is thus made over the entire limb, the press- ure of the appliance close above the joint does not prove so injurious. The time during which we may continue these forcible attempts at replacement should be at most half an hour; if we do not succeed in this time, we may be pretty certain of not doing so at all. If we wish to try further in such cases, we should resort to some other method. Until recently, we had no measure of the force that could be used without danger, and had to content om’selves with estimating it. It seems scarcely possible, by the above means, to tear out an arm or a leg; but not long since this did occur in Paris, and in a case where only manual extension was employed ! Generally, the straps tear sooner, or the buckles bend. Subcutaneous ruptures of the nerves and vessels would scarcely be caused in a healthy arm by regular trac- tion on the whole extremity; but they may tear, when adherent to deep cicatrices, and are so atrophied as to have lost their normal elas- ticity. If, under such circumstances, the conditions could always be accurately appreciated beforehand, we should frequently entirely ab- stain from attempts at reduction; for, in such cases, rupture of a nerve or vessel may follow attempts at reposition with the hand, and we cannot refer the accident to the machinery. An instrument has been invented, by whose aid the force employed in extension may be meas- ured. This instrument should be inserted in the extension-apparatus, and shows the force employed in Aveight, as is customary in physics. According to Malgaigne, we should not go above tAvo hundred kilo- grammes Avith this dynamometer; but such directions are of course only approximative. If the reduction has been accomplished, the main point has cer- tainly been gained, but some time is still required for full return of the function of the limb. The Avound in the capsule must heal, for Avhich purpose perfect rest of the joint for a longer or shorter time is requisite. After reposition there is ahvays moderate inflammation of the synovial m.embrane, Avith a slight effusion of fluid into the joint, and the latter remains for a time painful, stiff, and umvieldy. If re- duction has closely folloAved the injury, the joint must first be kept per-