321 DILATATION OF VEINS AND CAPILLARIES. tine), or an acrid oil (as croton-oil), etc. The condition of the in- flamed tissue would differ also with action of extreme cold, great heat, crushing, after steam on exposed surfaces or serous membranes, etc. So we should have to renounce entirely a uniform representation of the chemical processes in the inflamed tissue. I do not know if this view will ever prove popular in this form. Hitherto we have classed these changes of tissue at the seat of inflammation all to- gether; just as by concussion of the brain we should mean not only the moment of concussion, but also its immediate effect on the brain and its functions. If the concussion be followed by inflammation of the brain, the changes caused by the concussion may influence the nature and extent of the inflammation; but we do not say that a brain suffering from concussion is already inflamed. The same is true of contusions: if the normal function of a tissue has been af- fected by a concussion, but its function not entirely destroyed, the circulation will differ from normal, and this modiflcation we call in- flammation, but do not so term the immediate result of the contu- sion. The processes in the tissues, after chemical, physical, or me- chanical injuries, are essentially similar, differing only in extent and intensity ; they are what we term inflammation, and in it the tissue itself plays an important part, which varies with the way the cause has directly affected the tissue. A constant perceptible result of acute inflammation is dilatation of the veins and capillaries, with escape of white blood-cells and cer- tain disturbances of the physiological functions of the affected tissue. For all this to occur, one function of the vessels, especially that of the cellular elements of keeping the blood in the channels formed by them, must be disturbed ; but would such a disturbance be confined to the walls of the vessels, and not extend to the adjacent tissue ? This is not very probable. The granular cloudiness occurring in in- flamed muscle, the indistinctness of the filaments in inflamed con- nective tissue, the granular disintegration in inflamed nerve-filaments, the rapid loss of color of red blood-cells in acutely inflamed tissue, all indicate that certain constant changes go on in the tissue also, which usually lead to gradual solution or death of the tissues, unless gangrene occurs from rapid increase of the process. I acknowledge there is no proof that these changes begin sirmdtaneoushj with those in the vessels, and that they may be regarded as an immediate re- sult of the latter ; for if we find these alterations of tissue without dilatation of the vessels and cell-emigration, or if we artificially cause this state by obstructing the circulation to the injured part {^SamueJ), there may be a doubt as to whether it is to be termed inflammation in the ordinary sense {C.hnheim). But, on the other hand, at-