411 CAUSES OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION, a purely local character; let us consider them for a moment. When small animals, like the itch-insect, take up their abode in the skin, as they dig burrows like a badger’s in the superficial layers of the cutis, lay eggs, and there lead their laborious life, they cause constant irri- tation of the skin; to this is added the scratching, and a chronic in- flammation of the skin is thus caused and kept up. If spores of fungus locate in the epidermis, and there begin to grow and to mul- tiply to millions of small vegetable organisms, the skin will be placed in a state of continued irritation by these little foreigners ; and va- rious chronic cutaneous eruptions will result, such as favus, hei’pes tonsurans, pityriasis versicolor, etc. If a pressure or friction act moderately but continuously on the skin, it also is a chronic irritation, which is particularly apt to induce thickening of the part of skin af- fected, The callous spots on the heel and many corns are the result of the continued friction and pressure induced by our modern foot- coverings. In the same way the workman who uses axe and hammer a great deal has callosities in the hand, the shoemaker has them on the outer side of the little finger and hand where he daily draws on the pack-thread, etc. [We see the same thing much more markedly on the side of the left thumb and forefinger in plasterers, from hold- ing their plaster-board; and at the upper and posterior part of the front leg of some horses, from lying on their iron shoes.] Sometimes foreign bodies in the tissue keep up a continued chronic irritation in the surrounding parts. Continued or often-repeated chemical irrita- tion of the tissue may also induce chronic inflammation ; for instance, chronic gastric catarrh may be caused by the repeated use of schnaps or strong liquors. Continued stagnation of blood and Ijunph, as well as their coagulation in the vessels, first induces hyperplasia of the walls of the vessels, and of the parts immediately around them, distention and tortuosity of the vessels, and thickening of the tissue; the skin of the leg is particular]}’- exposed to this disease when there is any continued opposition to the escape of venous blood from the extremity. When we liave to treat chronic inflammations that may be traced to such external continued irritations, of which many more illustra- tions might be given, the results vi'ill be favorable. We get rid of the animal or vegetable parasites, the foreign bodies, the continued pressure, chemical influences, etc., and the chronic inflammation will disappear spontaneously. So far we have supposed a local irritation acting continuously on healthy tissue; if you suppose a tolerably se- vere irritation acting once on a tissue already diseased, you cannot expect the conditions to prove as favorable as in a simple traumatic inflammation of healthy tissue; but it is probable that the results.