494 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. may be very simple. If one of the openings of the bony case be tolerably large, and the sequestrum small, Ave may pass a good pair of forceps through the opening and try to seize and remove the .se- questrum. If, as in caries necrotica, there be no formation of new bone, Ave enlarge the fistulous opening through the soft parts Avifh a knife, and remove the necrosed piece of bone. But, if the openings be small and the sequestrum large, a portion of the bony case must be removed, both for the purpose of introducing instruments for ex- traction and for removing the sequestrum. In rare cases, it is suffi- cient to enlarge one opening Avith trepan, chisel, and hammer. I usually do the operation as follows : With a stout knife I make an in- cision through the soft parts down to the bony case, from one fistulous opening to an adjacent one; then, Avith a handled scraper, a ras])a- torium, I draw the thickened soft parts from the rough surface of the bony case, so as to expose it to a certain extent. This exposed por- tion should noAv be remoA'’ed, to make an opening through Avhich the sequestrum may be removed. For this purpose AA^e may use saAA’s of A'arious kinds—the osteotome, the panel-saAV, etc.; of late, I always employ chisel and hammer; the work is laborious, use Avhat instru- ments Ave Avill. The portion of the bony case remoA'ed should be as small as possible, so as to interfere the less Avith its firmness. When the case is opened, the sequestrum is exposed ; Ave attempt its removal by elevators or Avith strong forceps; this also is sometimes very trouble- some. AWien the removal is accomplished, the indication is fulfilled. If, contrary to expectation, the sequestrum be found not detached, AA-e should avoid forcing it out, but Avait a few Aveeks or months, till Ave are satisfied of its detachment. After the operation, the suppu- rating cavity in the bone is to be kept clean ; the j^atient should keep his bed for some time; most fistulae soon cease discharging, but it is still some time before the sequestrum-cavity is filled Avith ossifying granulations, ^^e cannot do much to hasten this, and the fistulas, which sometimes remain a long while, usually cause so little trouble that we are not often called on to do any moi’e operations for them. Occasionally, hoAvever, too large an opening remains for a long time, its walls become sclerosed and cease to granulate; here AA^e apply the treatment for atonic ulcers of the bone. In these old cases, tlie hot iron to the cavity in the bone, and chiselling out the track of the fis- tula, is the only treatment from Avhich I have eAmr seen any benefit. Many cases of these bone-fistulfe are incurable. The full value of sequestrotomy has only been appreciated for the past ten years; it first became common after the introduction ol chloroform, for it is a terrifying operation. Tliis chiselling, sawing, and hammering on the bones, are horrible for a looker-on, and tlie more