AMPUTATIONS, EXARTICULATIONS, AND RESECTIONS. 738 Wliea possible, I apply a plaster-of-Paris bandage before the operation, make openings of the proper size at the point of opera- tion, then slit the bandage down one side when it is dry and remove it for the operation, and have a plaster shell to put on after the operation, in which the limb can be suspended or laid on a supporting splint. Other operators prefer prepared wooden or iron splints ; the same end may be attained with the most varied ma- terials. After resection of the hip-joint no bandage is usually re- quired, extension by weights answering the purpose. In some cases I have found Lister's dressing very useful. Resection-wounds are always rather complicated excavated wounds; they always heal by granulation and suppuration after a long time. This is bad for resections in feeble, marasmic patients; moreover, in such patients we are never certain that caries will not attack the adjacent bones or the sawed surface, or that the wound will not ulcerate. The shortest time for healing after resection will probably be two or three months. Indolent fistulm often remain for months or jmars. Recently great attention has been paid to the final result of re- sections of joints. The resulting false joints may become so relaxed that they canirot be actively moved, and the limb hangs useless; other loose joints are somewhat movable ; then there are joints which have nearly normal mobility and power ; and lastly, anchy- losed joints, which are nevertheless more useful than the first men- tioned. The final result depends greatly on the amount of bone removed, the amount of regeneration of bone, the care observed in dividing the muscular insertions, and the muscular power of the patient; it is also greatly influenced by gymnastic exercises, electricity, baths, and apjDlication of suitable apparatus. But as these vary with the different joints, and different methods and apparatus are required, these matters can only be explained when treating of resection of individual joints. Prognosis as regards life is the same as in amputations. Resec- tions on account of caries usually run a more favorable course than those for injuries. The danger increases with the proximity to the trunk.