CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 540 may sometimes be arrested at a certain point, and slight improvement be attained; but even this is very difficult, only a few cases are entire* ly cured. Tliese unfavorable results are due to the anatomical prod- ucts of this disease; the worn-down cartilage and bone are not re- placed, the bony deposits are not reabsorbed, they are too firm and solid; the nutrition of the muscles fails to be excited by the natural motion of the limbs, for they are almost too weak to put in action the stiff limbs. ^ hen you have such a patient to treat, arm yourself with patience, and be not surprised if he consults first one then another physician, and finally all the quacks about, and lastly blames }'0u for the origin and extent of his disease. Of course, even these patients must be treated; the surgeon cannot pick out the curable cases, the incurable and dying also have claims for his aid, and where we cannot aid we should at least try to alleviate and mitigate the disease. Chronic rheumatic inflammation of the joints, by its simultaneous occurrence at different points, shows that it is not due to a local injury, acting on a special joint, but frequently at least to a constitutional cause; the enigmatical rheumatic diathesis is often blamed for the tendency to inflammation of the serous mem- branes, and exudations in the joints and muscles, hence we employ antirheumatic remedies. The persistent employment of iodide of pot- ash, of colchicum and aconite, of diaphoretics and diuretics, is rec- ommended, although little benefit has been observed from them ; but there is nothing else that is better, at least nothing to act specially on the rheumatism. Besides these remedies, and those called for by special peculiarities of the case, warm baths are highly recommended, particularly the indifferent thermal baths: Wildbad in Wtirtemberg, Wildbad-Gastein, Baden in Zurich, Baden-Baden, Teplitz, Ragaz in St. Gallen; besides these, salt-baths may be given, especially where there is commencing muscular atrophy. Special attention should be paid to the climate of these watering-places, for all of these patients are very sensitive to cold, damp weather. Hot suljffiur springs should be tried very carefully, and given up at once if a subacute attack occur after their use. If the patient Hve in a climate where the winter is cold and damp, he should be sent to winter in Italy, but, for fear of possible cold weather, should only go to places like Nice, Naples, Pa- lermo, etc., where the houses are well built. Damp dwellings should be most carefully shunned. The patient should keep warm, always wear wool next the body, and the affected joints should be wrapped in flannel. Water-cures are much recommended, and show some suc- cessful cures; when sensibly used by physicians, and not simply by proprietors of the establishments, they arc certainly appropriate, and often prove jieculiarly advantageous by hardening the patient, and