263 TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT-WOUNDS. and try to extract it in that way. If we do not succeed in removing the bullet or other foreign body by the opening of entrance, we proceed to enlarge it to gain more room so as to apply the instruments better. The experience that bullets may often remain in the body without in- jury should warn us against any violent operation that aims only at their extraction. Hence, haemorrhage and difficult extraction of for- eign bodies are the chief indications for primary dilatation of gunshot- wounds. Later, other indications may arise to necessitate it; but, in the gunshot-wound, such enlargement is not necessary for a cure. This takes place by the throwing off of a small ring-shaped eschar, and the detachment of gangrenous shreds from the track of the wound, till healthy granulation and suppuration begin, and the canal gradually closes from within outward. In most cases the opening of exit cicatrizes before the entrance. Certain obstacles may stand in the way of this normal course; there may be deep progressive inflamma- tions, rendering necessary new incisions and the employment of ice, as in other deep contused wounds. The first dressing of a gunshot-wound in the field is usually a moist compress, covered with a bit of oiled muslin or parchment- paper, held in place by a bandage or cloth. Frequently nothing further is required than simply keeping the wound moist and covered with charpie, lotions of lead-water, chlorine-water, etc. As yet there are no full observations of the treatment of gunshot-wounds without dressings. They occasionally, though rarely, heal by first intention; as a rule, they suppurate for a longer or shorter period. One of the chief causes of deep inflammation is the presence of foreign bodies, such as bits of clothing, leather, etc. The presence of the bullet, or a portion of it, is far less dangerous, for the cicatricial tissue may grow around and entirely encapsulate the lead, while the wound closes over it; the patient keeps the bullet in him. But these bullets .do not always remain in the same spot; they partly sink, from their weight, partly are displaced, by muscular action, so that after years they are found at different (generally lower) points: for instance, a bullet may enter the thigh, and subsequently, after being almost for- gotten, may be felt under the skin of the calf or heel, and may thence be readily extracted. I have told you the same thing about needles. But non-metallic bodies seem never able to remain thus without injury in the human body, and hence should always be extracted when discovered in a wound. In gunshot-wounds the fever generally depends on their size and extent, as well as on the accidental suppuration. In the excellently- directed hospital of the Bavarian chief staff-surgeon 7iec/r, which I visited at Taubcrbischofshcim (186G), the thermometer was used for