68 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. (lammatory new formation, where the primary cellular tissue forms, the lymph-vessels are mostly closed, partly by librous coagulations, partly l)y new cell formations. These observations have also been confirmed quite recently by ZciscA, of St. Petersburg, by examinations of trau- matically inflamed testicles. LECTURE VIII. General Reaction after Injury.—Surgieal Fever.—Theories of the Fever.—Prognosis.— Treatment of Simple Wounds and of Wounded Persons.—Open Treatment of Wounds. Gentlemejt : You now know the external and internal minute processes in the healing of wounds, so far as it is possible to follow them with our present microscopes. Of the wounded person we have not yet spoken. If you have crit- ically examined his condition, you will have noticed changes, which may not be explained by cell-knowledge (mit Zellenweisheit), and perhaps not at all. Possibly even the first day the patient may have been restless toward evening; he may have felt hot, thirsty, with no apjaetite, some headache, wakeful at night, and dull the next morning. These sub- jective symptoms increase till the evening after the next day. If we feel the pulse, we find it more frequent than normal, the radial artery is tenser and fuller than before: the skin is hot and drv; we find the bodily tempertaure elevated; the tongue is coated and readily becomes dry. You already know what ails the patient—he has fever. Yes, he has fever; but what is fever ? whence comes it ? what connection is there between the different remarkable subjective and objective symp- toms? But do not ask any more questions, for I can scarcely answer those already proposed. By the name “ fever ” Ave designate the combination of symptoms which, in a thousand different shapes, almost always accompanies in- flammatory diseases, and is generally apparently due to them. We know its duration and course in various diseases; still, its nature is not fully understood, although it is better known than formerly. The different fever symptoms appear Avith very variable intensity. Two of these symptoms are the most constant, viz., the increase of pulse and bodily temperature; Ave can measure both of them, the firet by counting, the latter by the thermometer. The frequency of the lieart’s beat depends on many things, especially on psychical excite- ment of all sorts; it shoAVS slight differences in sitting, lying, standing.