appearance of contused wounds. 153 imagine, not only how much sweat, but how much blood, clings to the many evidences of modern culture. At the same time it is not to be denied that the chief cause of these accidents is the carelessness, often the foolhardiness, of the workman. Familiarity with the dan- gerous object renders persons at last careless and rash; some pay for this with their lives. Gunshot wounds also essentially belong to contused wounds; but, as they have some peculiarities of their own, we shall treat of them in a special chapter. Lacerated wounds, and tearing out of pieces from the limbs, we shall consider at the end of this chapter. Fractures of bones of the most varied and dangerous varieties ac- company contused wounds from all the above causes; but for the present we shall leave these out of consideration, and treat only of the soft parts. In most cases, the appearance of a wound indicates whether it was due to incision or contusion. You already know the character of in- cised wounds, and I have alluded to some cases where a contused wound had the appearance of an incised one, and the reverse. Con- tused wounds, Kke incised, may be accompanied by loss of substance, or there may be simply solution of continuity. The borders of these wounds are generally uneven, especially the edges of the skin; the muscles occasionally look as if chopped; tags of the soft jDarts, of various sizes, not unfrequently large flaps, hang in the wound, and may have a bluish-red color, from the blood stagnated or effused in them. Tendons are torn or pulled out, fasciae are torn, the skin, for some distance around the wound, is not unfrequently detached from the fascia, especially if the contusing force was combined with a tear- ing and twisting. The grade of this destruction of the soft parts of course varies greatly, and its extent cannot always be accurately de- termined, as we cannot always see how far the contusion and tearing extend beyond the wound; from the subsequent course of the wound we often satisfy ourselves that the contusion extended much further than the size of the wound indicated; that separation of muscles, di- visions of fascias, and effusions of blood, extended under the skin, which may have been but little torn. It is unfortunate that the skin- wound gives no means of judging of the extent and depth of the con- tusion, for it renders it very difficult to correctly estimate such an in- jury at the first examination; while the appearance of the wound gives the laity no idea of danger, the experienced surgeon soon sees the gravity of the case. Since the injury, especially when due to machinery, is very rapidly done, the pain is not great; and immediately after the injury the [lain from contused wounds is often very slight; the more so, the greater