674 TUMORS. to arresting tlie liajmorrhago from arteries and veins (by mediate liga- tion before their division); in detaching the encapsulated tumor it is better to use the finger, a probe, or some other blunt instrument, than the knife or scissors,^" 12. CYSTS AND OYSTOMATA—CYSTIC TUMORS. A tumor formed by a sac filled with fluid or pulp is called a cyst or cystic tumor. It may develop from a sac already existing (cyst), or it may develop entirely new (cystoma). If the tumor be foi-med of a convolution of very many such cystic tumors, it is called a com- posite cy'st or cystoma.” If in one of the tumors already described, or in carcinoma, we find cysts also forming an essential part of the tumor, we give them names like cysto-Jibroma, cysto-sarcoma^ cysto-chon- droma, eysto-carcinoma, etc. As previously stated, Virchow reckons encapsulated extravasations of blood, hmmatoma {extravasations-cysten), among the tumors, as he also does dropsical effusions and hypersecretions of serous sacs (hy- drocele, meningocele, dropsy of the joints, ganglion, etc., exudations- cysten). According to Virchow^ the retention-cysts form the thu-d class of cystic tumors. Of these, we leave the retention-cysts of the large canals, such as hydrops vesiem fellm, processus vermiformis, tubarum, and of the uterus, to internal medicine and obstetrics, and confine ourselves to those tumors that Virchow has grouped under the name oi follicular cysts. The glands of the skin, as well as of the mucous membrane, have a tendency to the formation of cysts. Cysts of the thyroid have a doubtful position between exudation, follicular and neoplastic cysts. Closed follicles of lympliatic glands seem never to give rise to cj'sts. Among the glands of the cutis, cysts develop from the sebaceous alone ; I do not know that cysts of the perspiratory glands have ever been described. The reasons for secretion collecting in the sebaceous glands are: (a) its becoming inspissated; {b) closure of the excretory duct. If from either of these causes the secretion be retained and collect in the gland, the pouched secreting surface becomes expanded to a simple sphere; the collected secretion exercises a mechanical irritation on the surrounding connective tissue, which consequently becomes thickened and surrounds the secretion like a vesicle. If the sac, not yet grown large, can be evacuated by strong pressure, the small open cyst is called a comec?o, or “ maggot.” If, from any' irrita- tive inflammatory process, the excretory duct of a sebaceous gland be closed, there may be atrophy' of the gland, as after a burn with very