SYMPTOMS-H/EMORRHAGE. 21 line] spray is for a time blown against one spot in the skin, and such cold is here induced that all sensation is lost. After procuring some of this ether (hydramylather) from England, I was satisfied of its perfect action. In a few seconds the skin becomes chalky wliite, and absolutely without sensation ; but the effect hardly extends through a moderately thick cutis; and, if the ether be still blown against the cut surface, the frozen tissues cannot be distinguished from each other, and the knife, being coated with ice, will no longer cut. Hence, even in this more perfect form, local anaesthesia can only be used advantageously in a few minor operations. My former dread, that healing of the wound would be essentially interfered with bv this freezing of the part, has been shown by experience to be groundless. For quelling the pain, and as a hypnotic, immediately after extensive injuries or operations, there is nothing better than a quarter of a grain of muriate or acetate of morphia; this quiets the patient, and, even if it does not make him sleep, he feels less pain from his wound. Quite recently hydrate of chloral ( 3 ss- 3 j, in half a glass of water) has been used; its narcotic action was discovered by Liehreich^ 1869. Its effect is essentially hypnotic, but very uncer- tain ; it cannot supplant chloroform, but is a decided acquisition to our materia medica. Locally, for the relief of pain, we employ cold in the shape of cold compresses, or bladders filled with ice, applied to the wound. We shall refer to this under the treatment of wounds. Lastly, we may give hypodermic injections. If, with a very fine syringe, furnished with a lance-shaped, sharp canula, which may be thrust readily through the skin, we inject a solution of of a grain of acetate or muriate of morphia, this remedy will exercise its nar- cotic effect at first locally on the nerves it comes in contact with, and then on the brain, as the solution is absorbed and enters the blood. Of late, this mode of employing morphia has been exceedingly popu- lar ; immediately after an operation, or severe injury, such an injec- tion is given, and the pain is at once arrested. In a pure incised or punctured wound, hmmorrhage is a second im* mediate symptom ; its extent depends on the number, size, and variety of the divided vessels. At present we shall only speak of haemorrhage from tissues jjreviously normal, and distinguish capillary, parenchyma- tous, arterial, and venous haemorrhages, which must be considered sep- arately. As is well known, the different pai’ts of the body vary greatly in vascularity, especially in the number and size of the capillaries. In spots of equal size the skin has fewer and smaller capillaries than most