1 DISLOCATION OF BONES AFTER PARTIAL DESTRUCTION, 465 Carious destruction of the larger hollow bones rarely goes so deep as to cause a solution of continuity; where this might otherwise oc- cur, it is often prevented by osteophytes growing on the outside while the destruction goes on within, so that the bone grows thicker at the point of disease. I have only seen one case where, from a perfectly atonic caries of the tibia of an old, decrepit person, the bone was at one point so far consumed that there were entire loss of continuity and spontaneous fracture; post-mortem examination showed that there was not a trace of osteophytes. The bone in Fig, 66 is also nearly eaten through. Complete destruction of the substance of the small hollow bones of the phalanges and metacarpi is not so rare; the scrofulous caries of these bones has from time immemorial been called Fcedarthrocace, or spina ventosa, old names that only mean caries in the fingers or toes, with spindle-shaped enlargements. Should the bones be entirely destroyed by the fungous proliferation and partial necrosis of the small diaphyses, the fingers atrophy and are drawn back by the tendons so strongly that they represent misshaped rudi- ments of fingers. Displacement of the spongy bones is far more frequent when they are destroyed. I have already spoken of this as occurring in the wrist and ankle bones, still, it occurs far more extensively in other j bones; for instance, if the head of the femur and upper margin of the I acetabulum are destroyed, the femm’ is gradually drawn up in pro- ' portion to the amount of destruction, and assumes the position that it has in upward dislocation of the hip. Similar dislocations occur in the shoulder, elbow, and knee, though there they ai’e less remarkable. About the most noticeable are the dislocations in the spinal column after carious destruction of the vertebras ; if one or more vertebras be destroyed by ostitis, the part of the sjsinal column lying above this ’ point has no firm support, and must sink; but, since the arches of the vertebrae and spinous processes are rarely diseased at the same time, only the anterior part of the spinal column sinks in, and an anterior curvature results, and a consequent posterior projection, a so-called Pott's boss, thus named after the English surgeon, Percival Pott, who first accurately described this disease. In every anatomical collection you find preparations of this, unfortunately, rather common disease. The occurrence of such a boss is occasionally the sole, but tolerably certain, sign of caries of the vertebras. A second important symptom of destruction of bone, or caries, is the suppuration which accompanies many or most cases. The pus collects around the diseased bone ; a cold abscess forms; the pus does not always remain at the point where it forms, but sometimes sinks % deeper, particularly when it has displaced the parts from within out- 1 .1 1