TRAUMATIC AKD INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 376 of the inflammation from the latter, possibly through the lymphatic vessels; as in cases where, after amjDutation of the breast or exar- ticulation of the humerus, there is pleurisy of the same side, or a fracture of the lower third of the leg is accompanied by suppuration of the knee-joint. In other cases it is possible that a part already diseased, or predisposed to inflammation, becomes acutely affected, as a result of the general febrile disturbance; for instance, sometimes fracture callus, say of the radius, that is already tolerably firm, sup- purates in the third or fourth week, if the patient becomes p^’emic from a complicated fracture of the leg, or from a bed-sore. But there are many cases where, as above stated, such explanations prove insufficient. Then we try to satisfy ourselves that there was a predisposition to in- flammations, especially to suppuration in certain organs, which is necessarily accompanied by pus-poisoning; that the pus-poison circu- lating in the blood has a specific phlogogenous action on certain organs. I can give you no farther explanation on this point, but would like to render this hyj^othesis a little more plausible to you, by comparing it with analogous observations on the specific phlogogenous action of certain drugs, of which we have already spoken Avhen treating of the etiology of inflammation, and its toxic-miasmatic causes, and their mode of action (page 268). Diffuse metastatic inflammations of in- ternal organs are rare, unless among them wm include the diffuse en- largement of the spleen, which is frequent, if not constant, in pyrnmia. The diagnosis of metastatic abscesses and inflammations is easy, where the}'’ lie at the surface of the body and extremities; metastatic me- ningitis or choroiditis is relatively easy to recognize. The diagnosis of metastases to the lung may prove difficult; the foci are often so small and so scattered in the lung that they cannot be detected by percussion; the accidental pleuritic effusion often aids in the diagnosis of metastatic pulmonary abscesses; if there are bloody sputa and severe bronchial catarrh, the diagnosis may be considered certain; the subjective symptoms are often very slight; the dyspnoea is only severe when there is extensive pleuritic effusion. In pyiemia there is often more or less jaundice. It is not yet fully determined whether, in tliese esses, the coloring matter of the bile is formed from the red coloring matter of the blood without the intervention of the liver, or if icterus ever can occur without the liver having something to do with it, al- f hough most observers regard it as always being hepatogenous. At all events, icterus in pymroia does not admit a diagnosis of abscess of the liver; this may be susjDected if there be great pain in the hepatic region, but, instead of the expected hepatic abscess, I have, in such cases, occasionally found acute difl'use softening of the liver, which was accompanied by almost bronze-like icterus. Enlargement of the