SIMPLE IXCrSED WOUXDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 56 ology you know that Claude Bernard has proved tliat the contrac- tions and dilatations of the arteries of the head are under the influ- ence of the cer\’ical portion of the sympathetic nerve, as I have al- ready indicated. If we irritate the upper cervical ganglion of this nerve, the arteries contract; if we divide the nerve, there is dilatation (paralysis) of the arteiies and capillaries. This experiment of irri- tating the muscles of tne vessels may be often repeated, without their becoming quickly fatigued, unless the electrical current be too strong; hence we might imagine that there is little probability in the hypoth- esis of immediate fatigue after a single irritation, Schiff^ however, likeXofee, assumes that active dilatation of the vessels is possible ; he thinks that this necessarily follows from certain experiments; but this is ]Derfectly incomprehensible to me, for there are no muscles that could actively dilate the vessels. If the veins alone contracted on being irritated, filling of the cap- illaries would doubtless follow the obstruction, and there would then be no difference between venous (passive) hypermmia and fluxion. But this supposition is quite untenable; it is perfectly incomprehensi- ble that the veins alone should contract on inflammatory irritation. That the veins contract on mechanical irritation, you may see in the femoral vein of an amputated thigh, to which Virchow has called particular attention, and this irritability lasts even longer in the walls of the vein than in the nerves. Ilenle already advanced the view that the S}Tnptom of distention of the vessels from irritation was directly caused by paralysis of their walls; when Lotze, in opposition to this, says that it is not supposable that there should be paralysis of the muscles in a man who is exces- sively irritated and has his muscles tense and his face glowing, his objection is not perfectly tenable. Nor does the other objection of the usually acute Lotze appear to me correct when he says, “ hat shall we think of paleness, of the contraction of the vessels that results from fright and terror ? Does that look as if due to great muscular action, if redness in anger and shame is induced by paralysis ? ” I say this proves nothing. Fright may throw the muscles info a tetanic state, which is usually quickly followed by fatigue of the muscles of the vessels; immediately after a great fright, we generally feel the blood pour into the cheeks, as soon as Ave begin to breathe and re- cover from the shock; we soon grow red again, at first indeed redder than we often like; not unfrequently the paling from fright is often overlooked, and only the succeeding redness perceived. Still, apart from these objections, hoAV can we imagine the paralyz- ing action of an irritated nerve ? We actually knoAv such phenomena from physiology ; the obstruction of the heart’s action by irritation of