90 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OP THE SOFT PARTS. to the general condition, we must examine the latter a little more carefully. The most prominent and physiologically the most remark- able symptom of the fever is the elevation of the temperature of the blood, and the consequent increase of the bodily temperature. All the modern theories of fever turn on the explanation of this symptom. There is no ground for supposing that in fever any absolutely new element must be added to the requirements acting for the preservation of a constant temperature in the body, but it is probable that the fever temperature is caused by some change of the normal requirements of temperature, which vary readily with circumstances. When you re- member that men and animals in the varied temperatures of summer and winter, in hot and cold climates, have about the same temperature of the blood, you will see that the conditions of production and gmng off of heat are susceptible of great modification, a'nd that within these conditions there may very possibly be abnormities of the resulting bodily temperature. It is evident a priori that an increase of bodily temperature may depend either on diminution of the amount of heat given off, the production remaining the same, or on increased produc- tion, the loss of heat remaining the same (other relations of these factors to each other are possible, but I shall pass over them, to avoid confusing you on this difficult question). The decision of this cardinal question does not seem possible at present; it would be possible by determining and comparing the quantity of heat produced in fever and in normal conditions, by the so-called calorimetrical experiments on men and large warm-blooded animals; but hitherto there have been great difficulties in the way of these experiments. Liehermeister and Leyden have invented methods of calorimetry, that seem to me cor- rect; but the methods and conclusions of Liehermeister have been energetically combated by Senator. Hence, in regard to the above questions, we are still, to a great extent, thrown on probability and hypothesis. As the production of heat depends chiefly on oxidation of the constituents of the body, increase of the latter would necessarily be followed by increase of the former if the loss of heat remained the same. Now, since the amount of urea is regarded chiefly as the result of the burning up of the nitrogenous bodies, and as the amount of urea excreted in fever is usually increased, and the weight of the bod}’’ rapidly decreases, as appears from the experiments of 0. Weber, LAeher- meister, Schneider, and Leyden, this, with the above-mentioned calori- metric experiments, is considered strong proof that in fever the con- sumption is greatly increased, and that consequently more warmth is really produced than in the normal state, more than can be disposed of by the body in the same time. Trauhe gives another view of the occurrence of fever-heat: he asserts that every fever begins with encr