CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 522 resection do not exist. Hence, where extensive caries of the hand i.s accompanied by considerable degeneration of the neighboring part.s, amputation of the forearm will justly assume its old position. E.x- traction of single metacarpal bones, or simply sawing off the radius, is rarely sufficient; I have, indeed, seen cases where the disease was limited to one or two metacarpal bones; these had become necrosed, and the disease terminated at that point; the patient was sent to me for amputation of the hand, and was much pleased Avhen, after exam- ination, I told him that amputation was not necessary. But these cases are rare; usually the disease advances, and is not arrested by the extirpation of the bones which are chiefly diseased. I think that, on the whole, total resection of the wrist is still too little employed; ac- cording to my experience, it is worthy of the greatest attention from surgeons. This operation, as well as a similar one on the foot, of which we shall speak shortly, is well supported by a reasoning that has been falsely applied to resections in general; i. e., if resection does not arrest the local disease, we may still amputate. In resections of the hand and foot this is true, and they are rarely followed by pyaemia, but the case is not the same with the shoulder, hip, elbow, and knee. If these operations are unsuccessful, if suppuration be exhausting, or pytemia occur, we can hope little from amputation or exarticulation. Lastly, we come to the ankle-joint, comprising the joints of the tarsus as well as the tibio-tarsal articulation. The circumstances here very closely resemble those for the wrist; although caries of single bones, as the not unfrequent caries necrotica of the calcaneus, will spontane- ously recover with time, especially in children, just as scrofulous caries of the fingers, toes, metatarsal and metacarpal bones do, even in young adults, caries of the joints of the foot rarely recover spontaneously, and in old persons hardly ever do so. Consequently, in these cases operation will frequently be indicated at some stage of the disease, and on superficial observation we might think that resection and ex- tirpation of bone should be very commonly resorted to; but, practi- cally, there are two objections to the extensive resort to these operations in caries of the foot; 1. The experience that, after extirpa- tion of one bone, the disease often attacks another, and consequently perfect recovery does not result. 2. The fact that the foot must always retain sufficient firmness for the patient to walk; so, while we may remove the cuneiform bones, the scaphoid and cuboid, or even the astragalus or calcaneus, if we remove both the latter bones, and perhaps also saw off the articulating surfaces of the tibia, we should have a rather useless foot, whicli would be worse than a good stump. The cicatrices occurring at the place whence the bone was extirpated contract greatly after a time, and even if some bone form in this cica-