LYMPHOMATA. 665 internal remedies, because tlie tumors are too large for operation, they often fail entirely; indeed, I have even observed injurious effects from energetic iodine treatment in rapidly-growing tumors of this variety, in the shape of rapid softening of the larger part of the tu- mor, accompanied by severe febrile symptoms, lAlcJce made paren- chymatous injections of tincture of iodine with good results ; under this treatment I have seen small abscesses and insignificant contrac- tions occur, but no entire disappearance of the tumor. My experi- ence with the constant current has been about the same. Of external remedies also, iodine is the most effective, mercury scarcely at all so. Favorable results have also been attained by Baum from compression with apparatus prepared for the special cases. I have thus caused im- provement ; occasionally, a slight diminution, or partial suppuration, but never perfect cure. We can only expect a cure from operation in those cases Avhere the disease of the glands has run its course. It is true that, when these tumors lie very close to the trachea, we are oc- casionally obliged to operate on them when in full growth, but we must then alwaj^s expect local recurrence or disease of other groups of glands. A careful consideration of all the circumstances must de- termine in any given case whether an operation will probably be suc- cessful. The operation itself will be well borne in cases Avhere the glands may be isolated, and still preserA^e their capsules. I have ex- tirpated (or rather dug out Avith my finger) tAventy or more isolated glands from the neck of the same patient without subsequent recur- rence ; but AAdien the glands unite to one mass, and are soft, it is on the one hand a sign of rajoid growth, and local recurrence may be cer- tainly expected; on the other hand, it Avill greatly increase the diffi- culty of operalion. Sometimes lymphomata, developing deep in the neck in young, otherwise healthy persons, groAV behind the jaw into the throat and implicate the tonsils and phar}^nx; they usually soon prove fatal; the operations that might relieve them are so dangerous that they rarely prolong life. Of the other glands, which, according to recent observations, are to be classed in the lymphatic-gland system, the tonsils alone are subject to h}q)erplastic disease; but this hypertrophy of the tonsils which is common, and in children and young persons is quite fre- quent, more resembles chronic inflammatory secondary SAvelling of the lymphatic glands; it is usually the result of chronic catarrh of the pharynx, Avhile the reverse is often falsely considered to be the case, namely, that the hypertrophied tonsils are the cause of the pharyngeal catarrh ; hence, in such cases, extirpation does nothing for the chief trouble^ the frequent inflammations of the throat.