45G CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. (ylironic inflammation of the periosteum and bone is chiefly due to constitutional, dyscrasial diseases; and although injuries, blows, falls, etc., may be exciting causes of tliese diseases, the ultimate cause must lie in the injured part or the system at large, otherwise the process would take the course usual to traumatic inflammations and soon terminate. If an injury induces insidious chronic inflam- mation, this must be due either to a peculiar local or constitulional condition ; so far I have had no reason to abandon this opinion. Of the dyscrasias already known to you, the scrofulous and syph- ilitic especially predispose to chronic periostitis and ostitis; among scrofulous children the fungous forms of caries are most frequent, while among adults the atonic occurs oftener. True tubercles are also found in bone, but, so far as I know, not in the periosteum or the cortical layer of the long bones. But chronic periostitis also occurs frequently Avlien none of the above dyscrasim are discoverable, and where w’e can recognize no cause ; in old people especially, periostitis with caries sometimes comes from very slight injuries, and runs its course in the most dis- agreeable torpid form. The iiiflammatory neoplasia in the bone will greatly sympathize if the general health fails ; in children who have died of caries, 3-011 will almost alway-s find the atonic form, for, just previous to death, while the nutrition w^as bad, the neoplasia also broke down ; the dis- eased bone, even during life, was macerated by suppuration and mortification. Pathological anatomists, who only see caries on the dissecting-table, rarely know the fungous form accuratel}', or con- sider it the more rare; but, when one often examines pieces of carious bone, cut out during life, especially the resected joints of children, where the process is going on actively, he learns to judge differently from what he would in the anatomical museums, where macerated bones, almost exclusive!}’’, are preserved. Although I have merely spoken of fungous and atonic caries, you still understand that I have only depicted the extremes of the proliferating and rapidl}- disintegrating new formation. Of course, there are many intermediate forms. Tt is not the object of these lectures to carefully delineate all the shades of tliis process, as will be done in the clinic, but here the pic- ture of diseases should be drawn from typical cases, }’ou should ac- quire a mental mastery of the subject; hence 1 only lead }-ou so far into the details of the process as is necessary for understanding its anatomy. Now you will very justly nsk. How shall we know whether Ihe case, which we have only diagnosed with the probe, be of the pro-