ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. V43 tions ; so that on this account, as well as from the hard infiltration and necrosis of the tissue once infiltrated, I do not hesitate to con- sider carbuncle as a diphtheritic inflammation of the skin. I have had no opportunity of examining to see if there are micrococci in the freshly-expressed juice of carbuncle ; finding a few of them in the exposed shreds of necrosed tissue would prove nothing about the ori- gin of the carbuncle. Kochmann thinks .that carbuncle as well as furuncle originally develops from a sweat-gland, or from several ad- jacent glands. J. Neumann distinguishes between carbuncles from sweat-glands and from cellular tissue. I cannot say whether there is any justice in this distinction, as I too rarely see carbuncle in its first stages. 11. —P. 285. The inflammation here described cannot be considered exactly as carbuncle ; it is rather a carbunculous inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which I should now prefer to call diphtheritic phlegmon; the accompanying erysipelatous redness also corresponds with diphtheritis. 12. —P. 286. The great difference of the constitutional symptoms in carbuncle agrees very well with the supposition that they are of dijDhtheritic nature, where it is characteristic for the local extent not to corre- spond to the general toxic symptoms. I do not know if paralyses ever occur after carbuncle, as they do after pharyngeal and laryngeal diphtheria. 13. —P. 286. Possibly patients attacked by carbuncle were only apparently well; they may previously have had diabetes of a mild grade, with- out its existence haying been suspected by themselves or their phy- sician. 14.—P. 296. You will often hear that early incisions in phlegmonous inflam- mation will prevent the skin from becoming gangrenous or suppu- rating. Unfortunately, I cannot confirm this. I have found it to depend more on the intensity of the inflammation than on the ten- sion of tlie skin. Still, I consider early incisions proper in phleg- monous inflammation, as it seems that by carefully pressing the serum out of tlie inflamed tissue we may sometimes arrest the pro- gress of the affection.