TUMORS. 604 to this or that tissue, were used; it is enough for you to know what they mean. We must again return to the term “ tumor.” Pure anatomy should simply reject this term, for it acknowledges only simple or composite tissue-formations (organized neoplasia of RokitamJcy) ; from a series of observations it can show how these structures develop, and what becomes of them; we shall not thus arrive at the term “ tumor ” in the sense in which we use it in pathology. Tumor, or growth, in the pathology of to-day, has a decidedly etiological and prognostic signi- fication ; as stated at the opening of this section, it is a neoplasm that has not started from the same causes as excite inflammation, but from others that are unknown or but vaguely suspected ; the i^rocess in the organism (local or general) that produces tumors is generally con- sidered different from inflammation; some regard the two processes as antagonistic to a certain extent (we shall not here discuss the correct- ness of this view). If in any given case we have to admit that fac- tors which generally cause inflammation (traumatic, thermic, chemical irritation, etc.) have not caused the development of the tumor, the case seems .so unusual that we are disposed to regard the growth as an unusual organism. This pathologic or physiological view, as I mighf term it, was not formerly maintained, but I do not think I err in stat- ing that, consciously or unconsciously, it is held by most pathologists. All writers on tumors, as much as j^ossible, avoid speaking on this point, as there is nothing more to say on it; for we do not know how or where we shall draw the dividing line between chronic inflamma- tion and developmant of tumors. So it is not possible to have a purely anatomical idea of “ tumors,” any more than it is of the term “ typhus ; ” to understand them we must make a compromise between etiology and pathological anatomy. The etiological expression, “ the process by which tumors are developed,” implies that the fate of the product or tumor will probably differ from that of the “ inflammatory neoplasia; ” hence we might say of tumors that they do not bear in themselves the conditions for a typical termination, as do the inflam- matory neoplasiic. I would not assert the inflammatory process is at all the opposite of that by which tumors are developed; on the con- trary, I believe that observation teaches that, in some cases, the two processes correspond, especially in some forms of chronic inflammation and sarcoma, while, on the other hand, acute metritis and fibroid of the uterus are far enough apart, etiologically and anatomically. The idea that the development of tumors has certain specific causes, both in or external to the organism, is little disputed; and, when it is, it is hardly in earnest. Virchow asserts that the development of tumors mav start from an increase of the inflammatory diathesis; thus, polypi