INTllODUCTION. 7 taught; under Trajan, there was a special medical school. Military medical service was attended to among the Romans, and there were special court physicians, “ archiatri palatini,” with the title of “ per- fectissime,” “eques,” or comes archiatrorum,” just as, among the Germans, Hofrathe,^' Geheimrathe, * ** Leibarzte, etc. That, as a result of the fall of science in the Byzantine reign, the art of healing did not totally degenerate, is due to the Arabians. The wonderful elevation that this people attained under Mohammed, after the year G08, aided in preserving science. The Hippocratic knowledge of medicine, with the later additions to it, passed to the Arabians throuo-h the Alexandrian school, and its branches in the Orient, the schools of the Nestorians ; they cherished it till their power was ae- molished by Charles Martel, and returned it to Europe by way of Spain, though somewhat changed in form. Rhazes (850-932), Avi- cenna (980-1037), (f 1106), and Avenzoar (f 1162), are the most celebrated, and for surgery the most important, of the Arabian physicians whose writings have been preserved; the writings of the latter are the most important for surgery. Operative surgery suffered greatly from the dread the Arabians had of blood, which was partly due to the laws of the Koran; it caused the employment of the ac- tual cautery to an extent that we can hardly comprehend. The dis- tinction of surgical diseases and the certainty of diagnosis had de- cidedly increased. Scientific institutions were much cultivated by the Arabians; the most celebrated was the school of Cordova; there were also hospitals in many places. The study of medicine was no longer cliiefly private, but most of the students had to complete their studies at some scientific institution. This also had its effect on the nations of the West. Besides Spain, Italy was the chief place where the sciences were cultivated. In southern Italy there was a very cele- brated medical school at Salerno; it was probably founded in 802 by Charles the Great, and was at its zenith in the twelfth century ; according to the most recent ideas, this was not an ecclesiastical school, but all the pupils were of the laity. There were also female pu- pils, who were of a literary turn ; the best known among these was Trotula. Original observations were not made there, or at least to a very slight extent, but the writings of the ancients were adhered to. This school is also interesting from the fact that it is the first cor- poration that we find having the right to bestow the titles “ doctor ” and “ magister.” Emperors and kings gradually took more interest in science, and founded universities; thus universities were founded in Naples in 1224, in Pavia and Padua in 1250, in Paris in 1205, in Salamanca in 1243, in Prague in 1348, and they were invested with the right of