381 PYAEMIA. riie chronic cases usually occur in very strong or tough patients, and the infection is only moderately intense, and not often repeated; the metastases are in external parts, as abscesses in the cellular tissue, and suppurations of the joints, which keep the patient sick after the other results of purulent infection have disappeared. The prognosis essentially depends on the course. The more frequently the chills are rejieated, the more rapidly strength is lost; the earlier the symptoms of internal metastases present themselves, the sooner the patient will die. The longer the intermissions between the exacerbations of fever, the better the strength is preserved; the longer the tongue remains moist, the more hope we have of the patient’s recovery ; he is not out of immediate danger till the wound again looks well, till he has been entirely free from fever for several days, and has othervdse the ap- pearance of a convalescent. It is exceedingly rare for a patient who presents all the above symptoms of decided pysemia to recover. We must now go somewhat deeper into the etiology of traumatic infectious fever. At present there is probably no doubt that it is usually due to reabsorption of putrid fluid or pus; that it is always so, is indeed disputed. Many surgeons assert that pyaemia very fre- quently results from miasma, especially from a miasma which develops from the wounds of many patients lying together; this view is based chiefly on the fact that where many severe sm-gical cases lie together (as in large hospitals, especially army hospitals), many of them die of pyaemia, and that even mild cases, patients with cicatrizing granula- ting wounds, become pyemic under such circumstances. This is no place for polemics, hence I must be content with giving you my own Auews on the subject. I can entirely agree to the miasmatic origin of pyasmia, if by miasma is understood what I understand by it in the present and some other cases, namely dust-like, dried constituents of pus, and possibly also accompanying minute, living, very small oi-- ganisms, which in badly-ventilated sick-rooms are suspended in the air or adhere to the walls, bedclothes, dressings, or carelessly-cleaned instruments. These bodies, which are in some respects of different nature, are usually phlogogenous, all pyrogenous, Avhen they enter the blood ; of course they will collect chiefly where there is the best ojapor- tunity for their development and attachment, that is, in badly-venti- lated sick-rooms, where the patients are carelessly attended, where there is deficient cleanliness, and the patients remain some time in the same apartments. It is impossible to say whether all pus, moist or dry, is alike injurious ; experiments on animals give us no information on this point. It is only Avithin the last ten years that the distinc- tion between pyiemia and septicannia has been accurately made ; it is based on etiological, clinical, and anatomical grounds, as I have