TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. 177 Tlie skilful use of the above remedies is an art of experience; what you cannot accomplish with them in suppuration, you will not accomplish with any thing else. One of our colleagues of former days would shake his head doubt- fully, if he heard that we had talked so long about the treatment of contused wounds and secondary suppurations, without having men- tioned cataplasms. Tempora mulantur!'''’ Formerly cataplasms belonged to suppurating wounds as undoubtedly as the lid to the box, and now, three or four weeks may pass in my wards without cata- plasms being once employed for their original uses. The employ- ment of moist warmth, whether in the form of cataplasms or of tliick cloths dipped in warm water, is useless in the treatment of contused wounds, and, in the treatment of secondary suppurations, it is occa- sionally injurious; under them the wounds become permanently re- laxed, the soft parts swell, and healing is not advanced. Moreover, cataplasms only truly act as moist warmth when often renewed ; their renewal is tiresome, the poultice easily sours, or may be scorched, and finally, the whole mess cannot be carefully watched in a hospital; a cataplasm covered with pus may be removed, new poultice added, and it may then be placed on another patient. In some hospitals at least half of the surgical patients wear poultices ; hundred-weights of grits and flaxseed, etc., for poultices, are used monthly in the surgical wards; they are almost banished from my wards; as occasion offers, I shall show you the cases where they may be used with advantage. Hence, little as I can recommend the use of moist warmth as the ordinary treatment of wounds, I consider it very suitable in those where there is an extensive hard (fibrinous diphtheritic) infil- tration of the' cellular tissue. In these cases the moist warmth is not only pleasant to the patient, by rendering the tense skin soft and pliable, but it appears to aid removal of the hardened inflammatory products, either by their reabsorption or breaking down into pus. In such cases I apply warm moist cloths covered by some waterproof material. Hitherto I have not mentioned that tlie absolute rest of an injured part is always necessary; it may seem singular that I should mention it at all; you may think this should be considered a matter of course. I lay particular stress on it, because injurious substances are taken from the wound into the blood ; hence every muscular movement, and every consequent congestion of the wound, in short, every thing that drives the blood and lympli more strongly into the vicinity of the wound, may eventually prove injurious.