232 APPENDIX TO CHAPTERS V. AND YI. apparatus of Schneider and 3fenel, which we also employ for reduc- ing old dislocations) has been resorted to with success. The follow- ing illustration will fully explain the mechanical effect of this exten- sion : If you have a bent rod, and let a strong man take hold of each end and draw, the rod will break at the point where it is bent most. If a new fracture of the thigh has been caused by indirect force at the bent part, and the fragments be adjusted in a straight position, you apply a plaster-dressing at once while the limb is still held in the ma- chine. As far as our present experience goes, this method appears to be entirely free from danger, but only suited for the thigh ; in a case of very angular union of a fracture of the leg, where I advised this treatment, the break caused by the extension was not in the old seat of fracture, but near it. 3. The bloody operations on the bone, of which there are two in use, are more dangerous; the first of these is the subcutaneous osier otomy of JB. v. Langenhech. This consists in making a small incis- ion down to the bone at the bent part, introducing a medium-sized gimlet through this opening and perforating the bone, without, how- ever, piercing the soft parts on the opposite side; then draw out the perforator, and pass a small, fine saw through the perforation, and saw the bone transversely, first to one side, then to the other, till you can break the rest of the bone with your hand; now the bone is to be straightened and the injury treated as a complicated fracture. This operation has only been done on the leg, but, so far as I know, always with good result. It may also be done by not making the adjust- ment till suppuration begins, and the callus has thus been softened and partly reabsorbed. For LangenbeclSs instruments we may advantageously substitute fine chisels, as recommended by Gross, for dividing the callus from a small exposed portion of the bone. 4. Lastly, we may employ the method of Ithea Barton, which consists in exposing the bone by a large incision through the skin at the point of curvature, and sawing out a wedge-shaped piece in such a way that the broad part of the wedge shall correspond to the con- vexity, the point to the concavity of the abnormal curvatur^ of the bone. This method also shows good results. On the whole, the non-bloody are to be preferred to the bloody methods, if they do not cause too much contusion; but the latter are less dangerous than breaking up fractures with strongly-contusing apparatuses. If the deformity, especiallj’’ of a foot, be so great, in different directions, that none of the above methods offer much prospect of cure, we may have to resort to amputation in some cases.