404 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. the capillary vessels, or fluxion, is a less prominent symptom, while the new formation of tissue and serous infiltration seem to play a more important role. The cell-infiltration of the tissue takes place in few cases, as it does in acute inflammation; but the individual cells often attain a rather more complete development. In this process of development the intercellular tissue changes; the connective-tissue filaments lose their tough filamentary consistency, the distensibility and elasticity of the subcutaneous tissue are impaired, and the conse- quence, as regards the coarser, palpable, and visible consequences, is that the tissue becomes more swollen and fatty, and less movable than normal. This is the first stage of every chronic inflammation. The course may vary as follows: 1. The tissue remains permanently in this state of serous, and, to some extent, plastic firm infiltration ; skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, articular capsule, tendons, ligaments, fasciae—in short, all these connective-tissue constituents of the bodj' which are in the above state—on section present a rather homogeneous, fatty appearance. In diseases of the joints and their vicinity we see this most frequently, and, as this swelling of the joint goes on without any reddening of the skin, it was formerly called tumor albus., a name which tells nothing of the nature of the process, but which, hmited to certain forms of joint-disease, is practically serviceable. You may readily imagine that tissue which has been little altered may return from this stage of the disease to its normal state. The infiltrated serum is reabsorbed; the cells, which have newly entered the tissue or have newly formed there, partly become connective-tissue corpuscles, and are partly destroyed ; the connective tissue itself returns to its former condition, and, if the state of affairs be not exactly as it was, it is nearly so; occasionally a state of cicatricial thickening remains; during the development of the chronic inflammation there may also have been small extravasa- tions or escapes of red blood-cells through the walls of the vessels, from the increased pressure (according to Cohnheini); these change to a brownish-red pigment, which, when present in quantities, gives a yellowish or grayish color to the tissue that has beeii diseased. As a result of the continued excess of nutrient material, which sometimes flows to the diseased part in chronic inflammation, the tissue-elements may become larger and thicker; the whole tissue may increase; it passes into a state of simple hypertrophy. But sometimes the j')lastic (cellular) infiltration in chronic inflammation may attain a particularly high grade; from the infiltrated young cells new connective tissue forms in the old, so that the skin may be thickened to three or four times the normal extent; this deposit of new tissue of similar forma- tion, in the old, is called hyperplasia by the pathological anatomists.