680 TUMORS. are suited for this treatment, otliers which are not, because their walla are too thick. Of the ovarian cysts, too, unfortunately Out few are suited for treatment by iodine injection, so that recently the extirpa- tion of these tumors by laparotomy is considered the only certain operative proceeding; of late years the results from this operation have constantly been growing more favorable. Lastly, we must state that in some cases it is best to avoid any operation; for instance, I should consider it folly to persuade an old man, with a number of atheromata on his head, to have them removed; for, if the operation were followed by erysipelas, it might prove fatal. LECTURE L. 13. Carcinomata.—Historical Remarks.—General Description of the Anatomical Struct- ure.—Metamorphoses.—Forms.—Topography.— 1. Skin and Mucous Membranes with Pavement Epithelium.—2. Milk Glands.—3. Mucous Glands with Gylindrieid Epithelium.—t. Lachrymal Glands, Salivary Glands, and Prostate Glands.—5. Thyroid Glands and Ovaries.—Treatment.—Brief Remarks about the Diagnosis. 13. CARCINOMATA—CANCEROUS TUMORS. To give you an idea of how tumors were formerly diagnosed, and of the origin of many of the names still in use, I will read you a pas- sage from the classical, and, in its time, most prominent, work of Lorenz Heister, the third edition of which, published in 1731, I have before me. Plere (page 230) it says : “ The name scirrhus is given to a painless tumor that occurs in all parts of the body, but especially in the glands, and is due to stagnation and drying of the blood in the hardened part.” (Page 318) “ Wlien a scirrhus is not reabsorbed, cannot be arrested, or is not removed by time, it either spontaneously or from maltreatment becomes malignant, that is, painful and in- flamed, and then we begin to call it cancer or carcinoma / at the same time the veins swell up and distend like the feet of a crab (but this does not happen in all cases), whence the disease gets its name ; it is, in fiict, one of the worst, most horrible, and most painful of dis- eases. While the skin remains intact over it, it is termed (can- cer occultus), but, when the skin has opened or ulcerated, it is called open., or ulcerated cancer / the latter usually succeeds the former.” It is not long since men lived in the simple belief that there was something real and truly practical in this mode of comparison and description. In a hundred years will they laugh at our present ana- tomical and clinical definitions, as we now do at good old Wlio knows? Time moves on with giant strides; things come to