472 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. life, as the scrofula disappears spontaneously, or after the use of proper remedies. But caries in atrophic scrofulous children is dangerous, be- cause such children easily die of exhaustion. The prognosis in caries is most unfavorable where there is already pronounced tuberculosis; it very rarely recovers; the pulmonary disease generally advances rapidly and acute miliary tuberculosis develops in the serous membranes, and sooner or later terminates life. The patient, dying slowly from chronic suppuration, gradually grows more and more emaciated, pale, and very anrnmic, at last oedema of the lower extremities comes on; he eats less, and finall}', after years of suffering, he dies of marasmus, often very slowly; some- times he sinks to rest quietly ; sometimes struggles for days with death. Formerly it was generally supposed that death in these cases was solely due to gradual exhaustion ; but more careful examinations have shown that the exhaustion and impoverishment of the blood often have very palpable causes. For in these cases we often find the liver, spleen, and kidneys, in a state of fatty or amyloid degeneration {Syalinose, 0. Weber) ^ a variety of degeneration which consists in the deposit in the substance of the organ, from the smaller arteries, of a peculiar material characterized by its lardaceous consistence, and by its reaction ; on addition of iodine and sulphuric acid, it colors partly deep-reddish brown, partly dirty-brown violet, with a play of colors into green and pale red. Concerning the nature of this material there are various views, which you will find more detailed in the patho- logical anatomies. I shall only tell you here that the above reaction with iodine and sulphuric acid is similar to that of cholesterine, and that consequently Heinrich Mechel von Hemsbach believed that the fatty substance owed its reaction to the large amount of choles- terine it contained. Others thought that this material was allied to amylum, and hence Virchow^ who held this view, called it amyloid. Kuhne subsequently showed that both of these views were untenable. The so-called amyloid is a peculiar substance, closely allied to albu- men ; it differs from albumen particularly by its insolubility in acids containing pepsin. From the mode of its occurrence this material is very interesting and noteworthy; it and fibrine are the only organic bodies we know that pass in fluid form through tlie vessels, and out- side of these coagulate firmly in the living body, without the vital power of cells appearing necessary. The saturation of the liver, spleen, and kidneys, as well as of the walls of the intestinal arteries and of the lymphatic glands, Avith fat, must naturally have great influence on the formation of the blood, and finally prevent it entirely; thus, in most of these cases death is caused by disorganization of the blood. Extensive chronic suppurations