SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 24 life by instantaneous resort to artificial respiration, etc. Death ia probably caused by the entrance of air-bubbles, which press forward into the medium-sized pulmonary arteries, and are there arrested, and prevent further access of blood to the pulmonary vessels. I have never met any thing of the kind, although I have seen air enter the internal jugular vein, and frothy blood then escape; this had no perceptible effect on the state of the patient. Different ani- mals appear to be susceptible, to various extents, to the entrance of air into the vessels ; if we throw only a little air into the jugular vein of a rabbit it dies; while we may sometimes throw several syringe- fuls into dogs without observing any effects. Besides the above varieties of htemorrhage, we distinguish the so- called parenchymatous haemorrhage, which is sometimes incorrectly identified with capillary haemorrhage. In the normal tissue of an otherwise healthy body, parenchymatous haemorrhages do not come from the capillaries, but from a large number of small arteries and veins, which from some cause do not retract into the tissue and con- tract, and are not compressed by the tissue itself. Bleeding from the corpus cavernosum penis is an examjffe of such parenchymatous haem- orrhages, which also occur from the female genitals and in the peri- neal and anal regions, as well as from the tongue and spongy bones. These parenchymatous haemorrhages are especially frequent from diseased tissue; they also occur after injuries and operations, as so- called secondary hcemondiages; but we shall speak of these here- after. One other point we must refer to here: this is, that there are per- sons who bleed so freely from a small, insignificant wound, that they may die of haemorrhage from a scratch of the skin, or after extraction of a tooth. This constitutional disease is called a hcemorrhagic dia- thesis / people affected with it are called hcBmophilen, The cause of this disease is probably abnormal thinness of the arterial walls ; this is congenital in most cases, but may probably result gradually from morbid degeneration and atrophy of the vascular tunics. This frightful malady is usually hei’editary in certain families, especially among the males, the females being less liable to it. In these persons hasmorrhage is caused not only by wounds, but light pressure may induce subcutaneous bleed- ing, spontaneous haemorrhages, as from the gastric or vesical mucous membrane, which may even prove fatal. It is not exactly in huge wounds Avhere medical aid is called at once or very soon, but more particularly in slight Avounds, that continued hemorrhages occur in such persons Avhich are difficult to arrest, partly, as Ave above stated, on account of slight contractility or total lack of muscular tissue in the vessels, partly on deficient power of coagulation in the blood. It is