312 ACUTE INFLAMMATIOXS OF THE BOXES, PERIOSTEUM, ETC. the middle of tlie thigh. When the patient awakes, he will at finst complain of severe pain; give him quarter of a grain of morpliia and apply one or two bladders of ice over the plaster-splint to the knee ; the cold acts slowly, but finally proves effective, and in twenty-four hours the patient feels tolerably comfortable. The slight compression made by the well padded plaster-splint also has a favorable antiphlo- gistic action; if there be fever, you may give cooling medicines and saline purgatives; but the patient needs no further treatment. Be- fore applying the dressing, you may have the limb rubbed with mer- curial ointment or painted with tincture of iodine. It is best to apply the dressing even in the most acute stage; of course it must be done very carefully, avoiding any strangulating pressure. Recently it has been shown that, even in very acute inflammations of the joints, sur- prising results may be obtained by extension with weights. It is very interesting to observe how a continued moderate traction lessens the pain in the joint and relaxes the muscles. But much depends on the application of the dressings, and I cannot too strongly urge on you to attend carefully to these apparently simple mechanical things, whose importance you will not correctly estimate till thrown on your own resources in practice, and obliged to attend to the minutest de- tails yourself. If called to the case early, you may sometimes not only arrest the acute stage of the disease, but may preserve to your patient a mov- able joint. But, even if called late, the above treatment should be pursued. If tlie pain is relieved and the fever ceases, you may re- move the dressing in a few weeks, for the disease lasts several weeks under any circumstances; perhaps three to five months may elapse before the inflammation entirely disappears; gradually the normal condition and the former mobility return, then the patient should be earnestly warned against taking cold or excessive motion, for a second attack might not turn out so well. Supposing the acute process does not subside xnider the treatment instituted, but continues to progress, it may pass into a chronic form, or remain acute ; we shall hereafter treat of the former case. Let us at present suppose that the pain, instead of subsiding, becomes more severe, and you are obliged to split the dressing along the front; you find the knee more swollen, distinctly fluctuating, and the patella very movable, while the patient has high fever. If the disease con- tinues, the fluctuation may e.xtend farther and farther, upward to the thifi’li, for instance, and the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the thigh and leg may j^articipate in tlie suppuration. Formerly tins extension was attributed to subcutaneous bursting, or partial supiiuration of the synovial sacs around the joint, especially of the large one under the