47 UNION OF WOUNDS. Immediately after being united, the edges of the wound are gener- ally white, from the pressure exercised by the sutures as they com- press the capillaries; rarely the borders of the wound are dark blue; this always indicates great impediment to the return of blood through the veins, due to a loss of part of the blood-vessels. It is evident that the communication between arteries and veins may be greatly disturbed by the division of a large number of capillaries, so that at some point in the border of the wound the vis a tergo of the venous stream shall be insufficient. On the whole, this dark-blue color of the flaps of the wound is rare; it either disappears spontaneously or a small portion of the lip of the wound dies, a symptom to which we shall return when speaking of contused wounds, in which it is quite common. Even after a few hours you find the borders of the wound slightly swollen and occasionally bright red; this redness and swelling are often absent (especially where the epidermis is thick), but occasionally, according to the extent and depth of the wound and tension of the skin, it spreads from two or three lines, or to as many inches, around the wound ; the usual so-called local reaction about the wound takes place in this space. The wound pains slightly, especially on being touched. All this may be best seen in children and women with delicate skin. About wounds of the face, especially of the eyelids, we often notice extensive oedema in twenty-four hours; this fre- quently terrifies the friends, but is usually free from danger. In a considerable number of cases, if the sutures be not too tightly applied, the edges of the wound appear unchanged not onlj’- at the time, but till the cure is complete. But often enough the wound shows the cardinal symptoms of inflammation; pain, redness, swell- ing, and increased heat, of which you may satisfy yourself by placing your finger on the parts about the wound, then on a distant part of the body. The process going on at the wound, and ending in the union of its edges, comes under the combination of morphological and chemical metamorphoses comprised by the name inflammation^ and, in the case under consideration, would be termed traumatic inflam- mation, that is, an inflammation caused by an injury (rpavga). As a rule, these local symptoms have reached their height in twenty-four hours; if by that time they have not exceeded the above bounds, you consider the process as taking a normal course. It is a marked peculiarity of traumatic inflammation, that, in a. pure form, it is strictly limited to the borders of the xoound, and does not extend xcithout special cause. It is not unusual for these symptoms to remain at the same height the second or oven the third day ; but by the third or filth day, the I’cdness, swelling, pain, and increased temperalure.