GENERAL REMARKS ON ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 320 Illations run their course vithout stasis, as well as that this stasis often disappears in spite of progressing inflamniation. If it contin- ues, the blood finally coagulates in the vessel (thrombosis), the results of which vary with local conditions and the extent; there may be a return to the normal state by collateral dilatation, or gangrene may result. The circulation in the inflamed part is at first slow and ir- regular, and again becomes normal. Meantime numerous white blood-cells collect along the walls of the small veins and capillaries; then they wander through the walls of the vessels into the tissues, whose interstices become filled (cellular, or, if excessive, purulent infiltration) ; and finally they reach the surface (superficial suppura- tion, purulent catarrh). We have now the complete picture of acute inflammation ; but the process may recede at the time of dilatation of the vessels and arrest of the white blood-cells, and even subsequently, when cellular infiltration has advanced quite far, witliout leaving any change per- ceptible in the tissue that has been infiltrated or the vessels which have been dilated. But at a certain height of the purulent infiltra- tion the tissue disappears entirely, and is replaced by pus (an ab- scess forms), or by an interstitial neoplasia (granulation tissue), which, if it does not die, becomes connective tissue (cicatrix), with vessels and nerves. The question arises, What causes this atrophy of inflamed tissue ? Is it the direct effect of the cause of the inflammation or of the cellu- lar infiltration ? Here we come to the third important point in in- flammation, namely, the part taken by the tissue itself. If we first consider the inflammations caused by known chemical or physical causes, it is evident they cannot act on the vessels and blood with- out at the same time affecting the tissue. Samuel starts from the inflammation induced by chemical means, and explains it as a result- ant of the union of the cause of the inflammation with the tissue, tlie walls of the blood-vessels and the blood. The wandering of the blood-cells, their infiltration in the tissue, and the accompanying changes, he regards as secondary processes. If the action of concen- trated sulphuric acid on the tissue causes such a metamorphosis that circulation of blood and other fluids is no longer possible, tlie tissue is directly killed; but the most essential tiling in the inflammation is the change of tissue affected by dilute sulphuric acid (whether at the borders of a part cauterized by strong acid or where only dilute acid was used), where circulation still continues. According to this, if I have rightly understood Samuel's explanation, the disturbance in the inflamed tissue would vary in diflerent cases, according as the active cause was an acid, an alkali, ethereal oil (as oil of furpen-