ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. V47 21.—P. 373. Some surgeons prefer to say that a patient who has been wound- ed or operated on has died of severe typhous traumatic fever, instead of using the term “ septhsemia ” or “ septichsemia.” This is an in- correct expression even if it were practically true. “ Typhous ” is used in the old sense, like the rvcjjog of Hippocrates^ for stupid ; later the term typhous was applied to fevers in which the patient was stupid; during the last twenty years well-characterized infectious diseases have been called “ typhus.” It is better to use the name thus, and not bring the term typhous into use again. 'Virchow uses “ ichorrhtemia ” in the same sense that I do septicaemia; 1%^P means blood-water, lymph, serum of wounds; the older surgeons occasion- ally apply the term to thin, bad pus. 22. —P. 386. The cause of this is said to be that the septic matter, once taken into the blood, acts as a ferment, and that a small quantity suffices to cause decomposition of the blood and all the juices. As already stated, I do not consider this hasmatozymotic action of sejatic poison as proved ; on the contrary, I think that it, like the poison of diph- theria, malignant pustule, etc., often acts for so long a time and so diflPerently, even when taken up in- small quantities, because the hu- man organism (as well as that of some animals) only sets it free very slowly, and because at the points where it is retained in the body it often excites new foci, where the poison forms anew (perhaps less intense). For instance, I think dogs can bear so much septic jjoi- son because they pass it off so rapidly by the bowels ; they thus es- cape even very severe putrid infection. The power of getting rid of absorbed infecting poison more or less rapidly may vary with the individual to some extent. The same view would hold in typhus, cholera, and the acute exanthemata. 23. —P. 430. The rapid absorption of old torpid infiltrations is sometimes very favorably affected, as are neuralgic pains in chronically inflamed parts, by warm or hot local mud-baths. In some parts of Hungary hot springs open into the mnd of small streams ; in this natural hot mud, which is used in tnbs, the diseased limbs are soaked once or twice daily; similar baths arc prepared artificially. The bog-baths at Franzenbad and Marienbad are about as efficacious; the bog,