5G2 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. toinary or liabitinxl. 'Wliea the children are sitting, even without occujxation, and politeness forbids their lounging, they support them- selves with one hand on the seat; if they stand, they lean so that the body does not need to be supported; they usually stand on one leg, to rest the other. If the curvature of the spinal column has existed tor months or years, the centre of gravity of the back and head changes more rapidly, and the deformity progresses more quickly. At first, the intervertebral cartilages are merely comjxressed on one side, then they become relaxed on the other side, grow thicker, and the bodies of the vertebrae are compressed more and more, till, from being cylindrical, they become conical. This compression sometimes also leads to inflammatory new formations, to deposits of osteophytes, occasionally even to ossification of the ligaments. Ge7iu valgum, or baker's leg, is a deformity of the knee-joint, where its shape is such that the leg forms, with the thigh, an obtuse angle externally ; if these patients lie on the back, placing the inner sides of the knees together, the feet will stand far apart; to place the inner borders of the feet together they must cross the knees. This deformity occurs most frequently in young males, who during the whole day have to move their bodies and arms while standing, and at the same time have to bend their knees; bakers’, locksmiths’, and cabinet-makers’ apprentices are especially predisjDosed to this affec- tion, which is very painful when it is excessive or increasing rapidly. The external condyle is strongly compressed, the internal lateral liga- ment much stretched, the external lateral ligament contracted, and the biceps muscle is shortened and becomes tense. Flat-foot, pes planus, is a deformit}'- of the foot, frequently affect- ing young girls as well as boys before the age of puberty, xvhen they have to stand much. The bones, which form an arch at the inner margin of the foot, sink down so that the sole of the foot becomes perfectly flat, or even convex downward ; tlien the outer border of the foot is elevated (pes valgus), and the peronei muscles are short- ened, their points of insertion being approximated. This deformity of the foot is very frequent; it often follows genu valgum, butoftener is indeixendent; sometimes it comes on very rapidly and with severe pain. While I consider the above-mentioned continued pressure on growing bones as the essential cause of scoliosis, genu valgum, and pcs planus, still we cannot fail to notice that only a few of the jxer- sons subjected to these injurious inlluences are affected with tlie above deformities, so that we are naturally led to suppose that besides the muscular weakness there must be a special weakness of the os- seous system, a softness of the bones; indeed, I cannot help think-