38 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. A young, feeble woman suffered, after confinement for many months, fjom an extensive suppuration behind tlie right breast, between the mammary gland and the fascia of the pectoral muscle; numerous inci- sions had already been made through the breast, and about its circum- ference, to give free access to the j^us which formed in such quantities; but the openings soon closed again, and new ones had to be made, as the Avound did not heal from below. Fi-om one such incision, which I made quite extensive, severe hmmorrhage resulted, blood welled up from the depth of the abscess, and I was unable to find the bleeding v'essel; it flowed continuously, as if from a spring. First, I filled the cavity with charpie and applied a bandage; the blood soon oozed through this dressing; I removed it and injected ice-water into the various openings; the bleeding moderated. I again made firm compres- sion, and the hmmorrhage seemed arrested. I had scarcely reached my room in the hosjDital when I was called by the nurse, because the blood again oozed through the dressing ; the patient had fainted, was pale as a corpse, and the pulse was very small. The bandage had to be removed at once. I now thrust pieces of ice through the different openings into the cavity under the breast; still the bleeding Avas not arrested. The patient Avent from one fainting-fit into another, the bed floAved Avith blood and ice-water, the patient lay unconscious, Avith cold limbs and upturned eyes, the nurses constantly trying to resuscitate the patient by holding ammonia to the nose, and rubbing the forehead Avith Cologne water. At the commencement of my surgical life, unaccus- tomed to quiet and presence of mind in such scenes, caused by my OAvn act, I shall never forget this situation. I thought it Avould be abso- lutely necessary to amputate the breast at once, to find and ligate the bleeding artery, but determined to make one more attempt Avith oil of turpentine. I soaked a feAV Avads in this substance, introduced them into the Avound, and the bleeding Avas instantly arrested. The patient soon re\-ived; the turpentine, Avhich Avas left in twenty-four hours, caused intense reaction in the abscess cavity, Avhose Avails be- came detached. Subsequent active granulation induced in three Aveeks a cure Avhich had for months been patiently and perseveringly sought in vain by physician and patient. I cannot explain to you hoAV bleed- ing is arrested by oil of turpentine and creosote; they do not cause particulai'ly firm coagulation of the blood; probably the intense irritar tion they induce excites a peculiarly energetic contraction of the di- vided capillaries. You Avill rarely see styptics employed in the surgical clinic; they are rather fa\'orites of the practising physician, Avho is not accustomed to ligate arteries. 'Where we can ligate or compress, Ave sl'.oiild not