TUMORS. G08 the cells from a focus of inflammation or from a tumor could be as in- dependent as thistle-down, still, I think that, with our present knowl- edge about the independent life of pathologically-neoplastic cells, there can be no doubt of the possibility of such a process. Quite re- cently an observation has been published which is a new proof of the great independence of the cells of the rete Malpighii; I mean the epi- dermis transplantation of JReverdin, which has been so often men- tioned. This renders it even more probable than formerly that detached cellular elements of a neoplasm, carried to some other part of the body by the blood or other fluids, may there continue its growth. Although, on the first development of a tumor, as on the occurrence of an in- flammatory new formation, the lymphatic vessels are partly closed, and may be filled with cells, still, subsequently, from compression, lymphatic and vascular thrombi may form, into which specific tumor- elements enter, and small particles of thrombi, which might form during the softening of the tumor, may enter the circulation, become attached at dilFerent places, and form new tumors. In veins, the for- mation of such thrombi filled Avith specific tumor-elements has actually been observed, and, at the same time, analogous tumors have been found in the branches of the pulmonary artery. It is important to remember that metastatic tumors, like metastatic abscesses, are chiefly found in the lungs and liver, except in cases Avhere direct metastasis is very easy, as in pleural tumors, which develop as a result of primary mammary tumors, as in hepatic tumors found Avith those of the intes- tines or stomach; in these cases a direct Avandering of tissue-elements through the lymphatic vessels is A^ery possible. On this point there is still much room for investigation, Avhich, I think, Avill meet great results. As we haA’e already seen, the products of acute inflamma- tion mostly liaA^e a pyrogenous action; those of chronic inflammation lack this peculiarity almost as much as do those of tumors; fever only occurs in the latter Avhen there is disintegration of the neoplasia, and the products of the disintegration enter the circulation; more frequentUq infectiovi Avith such excreted matters shoAvs itself in chronic inflammation in tumors by a general cachectic state, especially by dis- turbance of the general nutrition. If Ave consider Avhat has been said about the contagiousness of tumors, Ave see that there is some probability of their transfer from one person to another, though it is not proAmd; but there can be no doubt that the lymphatic glands and other organs may be gradually infected by A-arious kinds of tumors. As regards the eflect of talcing cold locally and generally as a cause of inflammation, there are no observations Avhich would justify us in referring tumors to a similar cause. I do not knoAV that any one has ever asserted and jirovcd that tumors result from catching cold.