75 GRANULATION TISSUE. they contaia three or four dark nuclei, which become quite distinct on addition of acetic acid, because it dissolves the pale granules of the protoplasm, or at least swells them so that they become transpar- ent. The nuclei are not soluble in acetic acid ; the entire globule is readily dissolved in alkalies. Pre. 5. Pus-colls frnra fresh pus, nias'iiified 40U limes, a, dead without addition ; b, the same cells after uculilion of acetic acid: c, various forms that living pus-cells assume in their amoeboid movements. At a and b we see the pus-cells as they usually appear when we cover a drop of pus with a thin glass, and without any addition ex- amine it under the microscope. The above-mentioned observations of Von RecMinghausen have shown that only the dead cells have this round shape; if we observe the pus-cells in the moist chamber on a warmed object-table (according to M. Schultze), we see the amoeboid movement of these cells most beautifulljr. These movements, which only go on slowly and sluggishly at blood-heat, become more rapid at a higher temperature, and less so at a lower. The number of pus- cells in pus is so great, that in a drop of pure pus, under the micro- scope, the fluid intercellular substance is not at all perceived. Chemi- cal examination of pus is difficult, first, because the corpuscles can- not be completely separated from the fluid; also, because the large quantities of pus obtainable for chemical examination had already been a long time in the body, and may have changed morphologically and chemically ; and lastly, because chiefly protein substances are con- tained in J4US, whose perfect separation hitherto has not always been possible. If we let pus from a wound stand in a glass, the clear, bright-yellow serum usually occupies more space than the thick, straw- yellow sediment, which contains the pus-corpuscles. Pus contains ten to sixteen parts of firm constituents, chiefly chloride of sodium; tlie ashy constituents are about the same as those of blood-serum. Recent examinations of pus have shown that myosin, paraglobulin, protagon, fatty acids, leucin, and tyrosin, are constant constituents. Pus collected in the body does not readily undergo acid fermenta- tion ; jjure fresh alkaline pus soon becomes sour, however, if it is left standing for a time even in a covered glass. Let us now return to the granulation layer, where we have still an important point to consider, namely, the numerous vessels, which