CIESOID ANEURISMS. 581 remain thickened for a time; the plastic infiltration of the walls may lead to suppuration, and small foci of matter may form in them, though this is seen more rarely in arteries than in veins. With these processes there is a relaxation of the membranes, the intima may be detached from the media more readily than usual, the latter is soft- ened, the muscle-cells may in part disintegrate, and, as a result of this diminished resistance, there may be a dilatation of the artery. Such acute 'inflammations with plastic new formations and partial softening may doubtless occur spontaneously, and, although we have no special observations on this point, still, from analogy with other tissues, there is no doubt that a spontaneous, idiopathic, acute, and subacute inflammation of the arteries may run its course in this way, and probably occurs with acute inflammations of other tissues. At all events, these acute spontaneous inflammations of arteries are very rare; the chronic forms are far more frequent. One form of aneu- rism alone possibly depends on a more subacute inflammation of the artery, with diminished resistance of its walls ; this is aneurysma cirsoicleum, or aneurysma anastomosing also called aneurysma racemosum. This form of arterial dilatation is totally distinct from the aneurisms to be hereafter mentioned; in them there is not circumscribed dilatation of one part of an artery, but dilatation of a large number of arteries lying close together, which are, moreover, very tortuous, a sign that they have also increased in length. Cirsoid aneurism is, then, a convolution of dilated and elongated arteries. For these changes to occur, there must be a considerable new forma- tion in the wall of the artery, longitudinalljq as well as in the circiuii- ference; the dilatation is possibly due to atrophy of the muscular coat; usually (without, however, being able to prove it) paralysis of the walls of the arteries is assumed to be the exciting cause of this variety of aneurism ; still, although paralysis might explain a mod- erate dilatation of the artery, we have nothing to explain the paral- ysis, and this would not render any more comprehensible the elonga- tion of the artery, which can only depend on a new formation of the elements of the wall. As already stated, I think that this variety of arterial dilatation, which closely resembles inflammatory dilatation and looping of vessels, must be referred to an inflammatory change in the artery, and not to chronic inflammation with atheroma, to be hereafter described, but to a more subacute, diffuse inflammation. This view is supported by various etiological factors; these aneu- risms not unfrcquently develop after blows or other injuries; they are most frequent at points where numerous small arteries anastomose, as in the scalp, over the occiput, vertex, and temples; this variety of (ineurism might be regarded as an excessively-developed collateral