409 SYMPTOMS OP CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. everj inflammation as accompanied by infiltration of the tissue with cells. After these general anatomical considerations, let us briefly run through the symptoms of chronic inflammation. They are the same as in acute inflammation, only they often come in a diflPerent order and in other combinations, and are usually less intense. Swelling of the diseased part is usually the first noticeable symp- tom ; it depends jDartly on serous, partly on plastic infiltration. The parts feel doughy, and at first quite firm; if an abscess forms, as may happen in the course of weeks or months, fluctuation gradually be- comes more evident. We shall only perceive redness of the inflamed parts, when they lie on the surface, for, as the vessels are occasionally but little distended, it is not very intense or extensive. We may readily detect chronic inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, or of the conjunctiva, by the swelling, redness, and increased secretion. Chronically inflamed skin gradually assumes a bluish or brownish-red color. But, if the inflamed parts lie deep, the sldn is not discolored, and only becomes red when the deep chronic inflammation finally im- phcates the skin, as in the perforation of cold abscesses. Pain is one of the symptoms of chronic inflammation that varies most; in some very tedious cases it is entirely absent, but in other cases may be very severe, having a tearing, boring character, sometimes appearing spon- taneously, at others only on pressure, or on merely touching the parts. The functional disturbance depends essentially on the pain and on the anatomical changes in the parts. Heat., the temperature appearing elevated when the hand is laid on the part, is not usually marked, or is very slight. Fever is a symptom not necessarily pertaining to chronic inflam- mation; it usually appears only when the inflammation assumes an acute character, as not unfrequently occurs during its course, especially when the body has been much debilitated by long-continued suppura- tion. Then we have the so-called hectic fever, a febris continua, or simply remittent, with great differences in the moniing and evening temperature of the body, a fever wuth steep curves. According to my idea, this hectic or consumptive fever results from continued absorp- tion of the products of inflammation, especially of disintegration ; hence it is most frequent and most intense from rapid breaking down of tire inner walls of large abscesses, and in rapid i^rogressive ulcera- tion. This fever often runs its course with rapid emaciation, night- sweats, and diairhoea. Few patients stand such chronic siqipurative fever long; though I observed a boy fourteen years old,with a fistula remaining after resection of the head of the femur and general larda-