207 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. knee, may occasionally be employed as a suitable fixation apparatus in fracture of the neck of the femur in old persons. We must still mention some auxiliary appliances which we have to employ to keep the broken limb in good position after it has been dressed; for the upper extremity, in most cases, a simple, properly- applied cloth, a mitella, or sling^ in which the arm is laid, suffices. Patients with fractured arm or forearm may be permitted to go about with a plaster-bandage and a sling during the entire treatment, with- out interfering with the favorable healing. For keeping broken lower extremities in position, there are a number of mechanical aids, of which the following are the most serviceable: sand-bags, narrow sacks filled with sand, about the length of the leg; these are placed both sides of the firm dressing, so that the limb may not move from side to side ; for the same purpose we may use long, three-sided pieces of wood, cut prismatically, which are laid together, so as to form a gutter. For some cases a sack, loosely filled with chaff or oats, is sufficient; we make a hollow in it length- wise, and the leg is to be placed in this. If we desire firmer supports, we use fracticre-boxes, narrow, long, wooden boxes, open at the upper end, so that the leg may be placed in them; and the sides are made to turn down, so that the extremity may be carefully inspected, without moving it; the elevation of these fracture-boxes may be suited to the convenience of the patient. Lastly, we must mention the swing, which is usually made with a gallows, or strong bow, that is brought over the foot of the bed, and to which the limb is suspended in any sort of a fracture-box, or hollow splint [or Dr. Nathan Smith’’s anterior splint], so that it may swing about; in restless patients especially, this has certain advantages. All these apparatuses, which, although more rarely employed than formerly, are still occasionally useful, you must learn to apply; you will have opportunity for this in the surgical clinic. Of late we rarely apply these apparatuses in the lower extremity, as my former assistant, Dr. Ris, who has brought the application and elegance of the plaster-bandage to an extraordinary state of perfection, applies a well-padded wooden splint, three or four inches wide, to the under side of the leg, making it reach somewhat below the heel and as high as the knee, or, in fractures of the thigh, as high as the middle of the thigh. The Hmb lies firmly on this board, if the mattress be not too uneven ; if we wish to attain still greater firmness, we may lay a board the width of the bed over the lower third of the mattress, and on this place the limb, with its plaster-dressing and supporting .splint. In the numerous double fractures of both lower extremities that came to the Zurich hospital, this supporting apparatus did excellent service. y