TUMORS. G84 rarely, Ave find numerous cells, collected together in a fissure between the connective-tissue bundles. When the tumor advances into the bone, the latter is eaten aw'ay, as in caries. I have not been able to satisfy myself that there is any new formation of connective-tissue filaments in the nodular and infiltrated forms of these tumors, nor ha\'e I been able to find any osseous new formation; but there is no doubt that such a new formation occurs in the papillary and villous forms, of which we shall hereafter speak. From this description you see that Waldeyer's expression about the epithelial formation in carcinoma being atypical {tissu hetcroadenique of Robin) is also Avell suited for distinguishing carcinomata from adenomata, as typical new formations. As regards the vessels in these tumors, we may satisfy ourselves, by artificial injections, that the dilatation and new formation, by tor- tuosity and looping, are considerable; only the connective-tissue por- tions of the tumor are vascularized, the epithelial portions remain free; this is a very important anatomical criterion, as is the fact that true epithelial cancer-cells neA'^er unite together as the large epithelio- cells of some sarcomata do; 'Waldeyer has justly attached great im- portance to this latter point. I cannot go any further into the gen- eral histological description of these tumors, and hope that they may be recognizable from the above, although I acknoAvledge that it is sometimes very difificult to distinguish carcinoma from adeno-sarcoma and alveolar sarcoma.*® According to my Avhole histogenetic Anew, I must regard it as im- possible for an epithelial cancer to occur primarily in a bone or lym- phatic gland. The observations that I knoAV, to this effect (in the lower jaw, on the anterior surface of the tibia, in the lymphatic glands of the neck), do not seem to me sufficient proof, because the skin and mucous membrane are so near; there may have been an insignificant carcinomatous disease of the skin or mucous membrane as a starting- point of the disease, AAdthout its having been noticed. The appearance of the cut surface of this tumor, and its consist- ence, vary so, that no general description can be given of it. In the great majority of cases, carcinoma appears in the form of nodules; also as indurations of otherwise soft tissues, or as papillary proliferations. Rarely, the diseased j)arts are separated from the healthy tissue by a connective-tissue capsule; but, in most cases, the passage from healthy to diseased tissue is more gradual. In some cases there is no cancerous tumor, but a cancerous infiltration, there being no enlargement, possibly even a diminution in size of the affected organ. It is also characteristic of carcinoma that part of tlic new formation is very short-lived, disintegrates directly or after pre- cedent fatty degeneration, is reabsorbed, and then the infiltrated