572 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE JOINTS, ETC. would have no effect. The revivifying action of tenotomy is occasion- ally spoken of; it is to the above cases that this expression refers; indeed, in antagonistic contractions the action of tenotomy is some- times astonishing. The subcutaneous division of fascios is not much done; the cords of the fascia lata, which form when the thigh is kept flexed, are often divided with benefit, as it is difficult to stretch them; the fascia plan- taris may also be occasionally divided with benefit, when it is tense, in club-foot. Division of the fascia fails in the cases where we mio-ht use it with most benefit, that is, in contraction of the palmar fascia. From Dupuytren's description of the results of this operation, in sj)ite of the Avarning of my former preceptor, I Avas once led into per- forming it; but it Avas followed by such extensive supjauration that I Avas glad Avhen this finally ceased. In spite of all orthopedic after- treatment, the hand finally remained as it had been; some slight im- provement soon disappeared again, and I believe that this affection, in its higher grades at least, is incurable. Division of ligaments is rare; but in club-foot I have often divided the small ligaments of the ankle-bones, if they Avere tense; and, in spite of the fact that I must certainly have frequently opened the small joints subcutaneously in so doing, I never saAV any bad results. B. von Langenheck introduced diA'ision of the external lateral ligament of the knee in genu valgum; in this the knee-joint is ahvays tempo- rarily opened. This operation is only proper in the highest grade of the affection, but greatly aids the treatment; I had not previously seen it, or even thought much about it, fearing that it might be fol- lowed by suppuration of the knee-joint; a few years since, in one case, I did the operation on both knees of a young man who had ex- cessive genu valgum; the Avound healed without any inflammation of the knee-joint, and the orthopedic treatment Avas very quickly con- cluded. The patient went out of tlae hospital with his legs perfectly straight. On the Avhole, the operation is rarely indicated. So far as I know, no other ligaments are divided. It Avas natural to think of dividing contracting cicatrices also, so as to stretch the new cicatrix; but would it not be wiser not to lot the cicatricial contraction come to such a point as to impair function ? Would it not be best, eA^en during the healing of a large Avound—in the bend of the elboAv, for instance—to keep the arm extended, so that it should not be contracted by the cicatrix ? The idea is a good one; but the result rarely corresponds to such a tedious treatment, for, in the first jilace, such Avounds, in Avhich there can be no cicatricial contraction, heal Avith great difficulty, and, when they are finally healed and tlie limb is set free, contraction nevertheless occurs, I avcII re-