TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. 352 finer the net-work of lymphatic vessels, the more difhcult it is to dis- tinguish lymphangitis from inflammation of the cellular tissue. From the illustrations of Gniveilhier (Atlas, Livre 13, PI. 2 and 3), we may derive an idea of puerperal lymphangitis, and carry tliis to the same affections in other parts. Tlie red striae that we see in the skin can only be caused by dilatation of the blood-vessels around the lymphatics,' not by blood forcing its way into the latter; hence in patients we really see the symptoms of perilymphangitis induced by contact with the poison streaming in the lymphatic vessels. We know the changes in the lymphatic glands rather better. In them the vessels are much distended, and the whole tissue greatly infiltrated with serum ; quantities of cells fill the alveoli tensely, which probably at first im- pedes and finally arrests altogether the movement of the lymph in the gland; this blocking up of the gland will to some extent prevent the extension of the morbid process. Lymphangitis may occur in any wound or point of inflamma- tion ; but in my opinion it is always the result of irrritation from a jjoison passing through the lymphatic vessels. The nature of this jDoison may vary; it may be decomposed secretion from a wound, putrid matters of all sorts (especially that from the cadaver), oi’ matters which from excessive irritation form an inflamed point. We have already stated that the friction from a boot-nail may excite a simple excoriation into a diffuse inflammation, in which a (phlogistic) jjoison may and often does form, and excites lymphangitis; the same thing occurs in points of inflammation from other causes ; by increased irritation a laiaterial is formed in the inflammatoiy focus itself, which proves very irritant to the lymphatic vessels and their surrouncbngs; even a poison encapsulated in an inflamed part may by increased pressure of the blood be driven into the lymphatic vessels, and thence into the blood, although without this cause it might have remained quiet, and been gradually thrown off or eliminated by sup- puration. The following case may serve as an illustration: One of my colleagues had a slight inflammation on the finger, from a dis- secting wound; this inflammation was purely local, scarcely observ- able; on a short trip in the Alps he became heated, in the evening he had a lymphangitis of the arm and high fever; the active move- ment and consequently increased action of tlie heart had driven the poisoiq previously lying quiet in the circumscribed point of inflamma- tion, through the lymphatic vessels into tlie blood. Whj’’, in the different cases, we have sometimes diffuse phlegmonous inflammation, lometiines erysipelas or lymphangitis, cannot be ccrtiiinly slated, tliough it may be due to purely local causes, and to the character of the poisou. From our present knowledge of the passage of cells