150 CONTUSIONS OF THE SOFf PARTS WITHOUT WOUNDS. Tlie treatment of contusions without wound has for its object the conduction of the process to the most favorable termination possible, tliat is, to reabsorption of the extravasation; when this takes place, the injuries to the other soft parts also progress favorably, as the whole process remains subcutaneous. We here refer solely to those cases where the contusion of the soft parts and the extravasation are the only objects of treatment; where tlie bone is broken it should be treated lirst of all, the extravasation of itself would scarcely be an ob- ject for special treatment. If called to a contusion that has just oc- curred, the indication may be to arrest any still continuing haemor- rhage ; this is best done by compression, which, where convenient, is to be made by evenly-applied bandages. In North German}^, when a cliild falls on its head, or knocks its forehead, the mother or nurse at once presses the handle of a spoon on the injured spot to prevent the formation of a blood-bruise. This is a very suitable popular remedy; by the instantaneous compression the further escape of blood is hin- dered, as is also its collection at one point, because it is compelled by the jDressure to distribute itself in the surrounding tissue; an ecchy- mosis just forming may thus be transformed into a suggillation, so that the blood may more readily be absorbed. You may occasionally at- tain the same object by a well-applied bandage. But we rarely see the injury so early, and in the great majority of cases there is also an injury of a bone or joint, and the treatment of the blood-extravasation is a secondary object. The use of cold, in the shape of bladders or rubber bags filled with ice, or of cold lotions, to which it is an old custom to add vinegar or lead-water, is resorted to as a remedy in recent contusions; it is said to prevent excessive inflammation. But you must not rely too much on these remedies; the means that most aids the reabsorption of blood extravasations is regular compression and rest of the part. Hence it is best to envelop the extremities in moist bandages, and over them apply wet cloths, which are to be renewed every three or four hours. Other remedies, which usually act well in inflammations of the skin, such as mercurial ointment, are of little use here. But I must not forget arnica; this remedy is so honored by some families and physicians that they would consider it unpardonable to neglect prescribing lotions of infusion of arnica, or of water with the addition of tincture of arnica. Faith is mighty; one believes in arnica, an- other in lead-water, a third in vinegar, as the potent external reab- sorbent. In all cases the efl’ect is doubtless simpl}' due to the moist- ure and the variation of temijerature of the skin caused by the com- press, whereby the capillaries are kejjt active, now brought to contrac- tion, now to dilatation, and thus jdaced in a better state for rcabsori> tion because thev are active.