723 OCCASIONS FOR AMPUTATION. excessive inflammation tlie skin has suppurated so extensively that we cannot hope for the wound to close; or when the patient has fallen into a marasmic state from slow suppuration of large joints or bones. Injuries of the hands or feet may also lead to amputation, when of such a nature that, under the most favorable condition, they would induce a useless, constantly ulcerating stump. After evulsions or crushed wounds especially, the bones may protrude and the stump mav require a regular amputation. The results of frost-bite must be treated in the same way; but in the lower limbs we should not delav amputating too long when the line of demarkation has been formed ; sloughing off of considerable portions of the body too often induces septicaemia, which may be prevented by early amputation in cases of gangrene from frost-bite or burns. In acute idiopathic inflammations of bones and joints, by early diagnosis and treatment, we are constantl}' learning to preserve limbs by making proper openings for the pus, and fixing the limbs in good position. Still, cases do occur where the patient can only be saved by well-timed amputation ; but the choice of the proper time is difficult, as it is a question whether and how long the patient can bear the suppuration and fever. In regard to so-called spontaneous gangrene, or, as old surgeons called it. grangrene from internal causes, we must carefully consider each case. If the gangrene be due to arterial embolism, and there be general disease, the limb should be amputated as soon as demar- kation occurs. In gangrene after typhus and severe exanthemata, we may wait till the patient has somewhat recovered. In true senile gangrene we rarely ampul,ate. If the gangi’ene be limited to one or a few toes, they may be left to come oil spontaneously. If it extend to the tarsus, it is rarely limited to that part ; but should it be, we loosen the protruding bones, and strive, with the least possi- ble injury of the soft parts, to secure enough substance to cover the stump. Tlie chief chronic diseases which give occasion for amputation are the chronic inflammations of bones and joints. Caries of many bones of the carpus or tarsus, of the knee-joint in non-tuberculous adults, of the hip, shoulder, or elbow joints, rather demand resection if any operation is required ; amputation is a secondary question. Extensive incurable ulcers and incurable or frequently recurring pachydermy of the leg often demand amputation, unless the patient is to be condemned to constant pain and to be permanent!v bed- ridden. Large aneurisms of the femoral artery, especially if likely to rupt-