CYSTOMATA, 679 parts of the body; I have given you the sum of these experiences in each form of cyst, and in the clinic shall hereafter direct your special attention to this point. As the above includes the prognosis of cystic tumors, all of which grow slowly when they exist as cysts without complication, we may pass at once to their treatment. We may remove cysts in two waj's, viz.: by evacuating the contents, and locally applying remedies that may excite an inflammation which shall cause atrophy of the sac, or by extirpating the sac; the latter is always the simplest and most rapid, and we always give it the preference where it can be done easily and without danger to life. But in cysts of the ovary, thyroid, and other glands, that are deeply seated or from other causes danger- ous, some other, safer operation is of course desirable, if it offers a prospect of success. We may induce shrinkage of the sac after pre- cedent evacuation of the contents, by a suppurative or by a milder, drier inflammation. If you sHt up the wall of the cyst its whole length, and keep the cut edges apart, there will be suppuration and gi’anulation of the exposed inner wall of the cyst, with detachment of the portions of tumor or epithelium clinging to it; the sac then gradually shrinks up into a cicatrix, then decreases in size, and finally heals; but this may require months. You may attain the same thing in a more subcutaneous way, by ligatures or tubes through the tumor at different points; the irritation caused by these, as well as by the entrance of air, causes suppuration and granulation of the inner wall, and in favorable cases these may lead to atrophy; often this does not occur in the manner desired, or else it may require months or years ; so that of these two methods the first is preferable; it is particularly applicable to cysts of the neck. We may attain shrinkage of the cyst and drying up of its contents in another way, namely, by puncture, with subsequent injection of tincture of iodine; we have already (page 525) said enoirgh about the effect of this treat- ment. Here, too, the injection is followed by severe inflammation of the sac with sero-fibrinous exudation; then the serum is reabsorbed and the sac contracts. Tlie latter method is jjarticularly applicable when we have to deal not with contents of softened tissue, but with a fluid secreted by the walls of the.sac, that is, chiefly with cysts whose contents are serous, and some sorts of mucous cysts. Cysto- mata developed from softened gelatinous substance and fat-cj'sts are not suited for iodine injections; for they are apt to be followed by severe inflammation and suppuration, Avith formation of gas, so that we are subsequently obliged to slit up the entire sac. And very thick walls, which contract very slowly or not at all, also contraindicate iodine injections. Hence among cysts of the neck we find some that