OSTEOMATA. 635 long, sharp, bony processes, where FlO. 12T. are covered with twenty to fiftj the tendons are attached to the bone (Fig. 137); as in one case observed in Zurich, the ossification occasionally occurs in the fiiscia of the muscle. Cases have been ob- sen^ed where this ossification was so exten- sive that all the muscles of the shoulder and arm were ossified, and the upper ex- tremity could not be moved. These bony neoplasiae, as well as the so-called exercise'^ bones, must doubtless be regarded as the product of chronic inflammation, just like the true bony formations that are abnor- mally developed in the membranes of the brain and spinal medulla. By exercise- bones we mean the development of bone in the deltoid muscle, particularly at those points where the musket strikes when drill- ing. But these bones form in few sol- diers, and their development presupposes a tendency to the formation of bone. Os- sification of the tendons, especially of their points of attachment to the bone, which occasionally occurs from some unknown cause, is also very remarkable, and reminds us of a similar process in birds, which in them is perfectly normal. The predisposition to formation of os- teomata is allied to that for development of chondromata; it also occurs more frequent- ly in the young, and in men than in women, while children almost escape it. As regards epiphyseal osteomata, which might be termed ossifying chondromata, they of course cannot occur later than the twenty- fourth year. But other exostoses also occur generally before the thir- tieth year; observations on this point are not very numerous, as the disease is rare. This experience about the occurrence of osteomata in the young is the more remarkable, as it stands in a certain contrast to the general rule of ossification being especially apt to occur in old persons. The cartilages of the ribs and larynx and the spinal liga- ments often ossify in advanced age; the chalky deposits in the ar- teries of the aged also form part of the almost natural senile maras- mus ; development of osteomata, however, rarely occurs in old persons, Osteoma of the muscular attach- lueuts, after 0. ’SYeber.