257 VARIOUS FORMS OF BULLET-WOUNDS. that the injury was due to this pressure; anotner thought that, from tlie friction in the barrel of the gun, the bullet was charged with electricity, and could in some unknown manner cause contusion and burning at a certain distance. If the conclusion that the whole idea of the wind of balls was a fable had been arrived at sooner, these fantastic theories would not have arisen. Contusions from spent and oblique bullets are to be treated like other contusions. In the second case, the bullet does not enter the soft parts deeply, but carries away part of the skin from the surface of the body, leaving a gutter or furrow. This variety of gunshot-wound is one of the slightest, unless, as may happen in the head, the bone is grazed by the bullet, and portions of lead remain in the skull. The third case is where the bullet enters the skin without escap- ing again; the bullet enters and generally remains in the soft parts; it makes a tubular wound. Various other foreign bodies may be car- ried into these wounds, such as portions of uniform, cloth, leather, buttons, etc.; a bone may also be sphntered, aiid the splinters driven into the wound and tear it. After perforating tlie skin and soft parts, the bullet might rebound from a bone and fall out of the same opening, so that you would not find it in the wound, in spite of there being only one opening. The wound that the bullet makes on entering the body is usually round, corresponding- to the shape of the ball; its edges are contused, occasionally bluish-black, and somewhat inverted. These characteristics hold in the majority of cases, but are not ab- sol-ate. The fourth and last case is where the bullet enters at one point and escapes at another. If the course of the wound is entirely through the soft parts, and the bullet has carried in no foreign body, the point of exit is usually smaller than the entrance, arid is more like a tear. If the bullet has struck a bone and driven bone-splinters or other for- eign body before it, the point of exit is occasionally much larger than the entrance; there may also be two or more points of exit from bursting of the bullet into several pieces or from several splinters of bone. Lastly, splinters of bone may make openings of exit like those from a bullet, while the latter, or part of it, remains in the wound. Too much value has been attached to the distinction of the openings of entrance and exit; this is only important in forensic cases, where it may be desirable to know from which side the bullet came, as this may give a clew to the author of the injury. The course of the bullet through the deep psirts is occasionally very peculiar; its course is some- times deviated by bones or tense tendons and fasciae, so that we should be greatly mistaken in suj)posing that the union of the points of entrance and exit by a straight line always represented the course