28 SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. should not readily absorb fluids. Have the forceps, which hang from the end of the artery, held up, then from below place the silk around the artery, making first a simple knot and tying it tightly just in front of the forceps, then tie a second knot. Now loosen the forceps ; if the ligature is rightly applied, the bleeding must be arrested. The tight- ening of the knot must be accomplished b}' pushing the silk forward and stretching it with the points of both fingers. If the silk be good, two simple knots, one over the other, will suffice. When the ligature is firmly applied, cut one end off short and lead the other out of the wound the shortest way. In from 6 to 10 days these can usually be removed. When you propose to close the wound entirely, it is best to use catgut made pliable by soaking in oil ; the knots and loops are gradually absorbed, and only rarely thrown off by suppuration. It is not ahvaj^s possible to take up the spurting artery and ligate it by itself; occasionally it contracts so strongly into the tissue, es- pecially into the muscles or dense cellular tissue, that its isolation is impracticable. Under such circumstances it is difficult to complete the ligation securely; -we are very apt to include the blades of the forceps in the ligature, as it is difficult to push the ligature far enough for- ward. Such cases are proper ones for mediate ligation. After hav- ing pulled forward the bleeding part with forceps or a hook, pass a curved needle, held in a needle-holder, around the artery, then tie the ligature so as to encircle the entire end of the artery; tie the knots tightly, as above directed ; thus, while closing the mouth of the artery, you w’ill enclose some of the surrounding tissue. Mediate ligation is only to be regarded as an exceptional proceeding, for the ligated tissue dies or the ligature suppurates through very slowly, so that the sepa- ration of the latter is much impeded ; of course we must guard against including any visible nerve-trunk near the artery in the ligature. In the percutaneous mediate ligation of Middeldorpf^ we proceed even more summarily; we pass a strongly-curved large needle through the skin, under and across the bleeding artery, and again out through the skin; the thread is tied, and, besides compressing other parts, compresses the artery; the thread remains two or three days. I do not recommend this method; it should only be employed in cases of necessity, and as a provisional hmmostatic. Whenever the bleeding artery can be seen in the w'ound, the haem- orrhage is to be arrested by ligature; but, in those cases where the arteries of the periosteum or bone spurt out blood, ligature is impos- sible, and other methods, such as compression, come into play. If you have to deal with large bleeding arteries, the proceeding is just the same, only you must be doubly careful in isolating the artery: seize the bleeding end and scrape back the surrounding V