382 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMilATORY DISEASES, ETC. described. Now, objections are made to this distinction; it is as- serted that the poison is the same in traumatic fever, septicajinia, and pyaemia, and that all are due to the growth of cocci. I can assure you, we know nothing certain about it; possibly it is true, perhaps not. But the clinical appearance of these diseases gener- ally differs enough to separate them till we know more about them ; if it should be shown that the difference is due merely to more or less intense action of the same chemical process, it would be a beau- tiful scientific discovery, but would not detract from the clinical and prognostic value of the descriptions. From my ov/n experience I can say that there are cases answering to those for which Ilueter proposes the name “ septo-pyaemia,” where the symptoms of septi- caemia and pyaemia are mingled. The term “subacute pyaemia,” used by Stromeyer and other older colleagues, corresponds to our septicaemia. What the French call “ gangrene traumatique foudroy- ante” is a rapid decomposition and turning green of tissue, with great development of gas deep in the muscles, during the life of the patient. It is very rare; I have seen two such cases after amputa- tions at the thigh for severe injuries. I consider the idea of animated, dust-like miasma a very fmitful one, and if in any of you it calls to life new thoughts, which lead to actual studies, the chief aim of my exertions as teacher is gained. The old doctrine of the gaseous form of miasmata has always led us into deep w’ater ; many shrewd per- sons have exhausted their brains on this point, without advancing it much. Another common question is. Is pycBinici contcigious ? Ac- cording to the view I have just given of jsyaamic miasm, this is an- swered to some extent both in the affirmative and negative. A fixed molecular miasm, originating from a suppurating pyaemic patient, must at the same time be regarded as a fixed contagion ; but accord- ing to my view this miasm may just as well come from a iion-pymraic patient; then it cannot be termed contagious in a specific sense, for a contagion alw'ays induces the same disease. You see that the strife as to the contagiousness or non-contagiousness of pymmia must go back to the views as to the nature of tlie aisease ; it is only impor- tant for those surgeons who regard pyaemia as a peculiar specific dis- ease, not related to suppurative fever a view which I regard as groundless and practically useless, and against which I have long fought, and I hope with some success. With all these things aiiscs the question, Does pyremie miasm enter the body only throvyh the wound, or also through the shm and mucous memhraries ? Although the latter is not impossible, I have not yet made any certain obser- vations by which such an hypothesis can be considered proved or even probable ; but from my experience I hold to the opinion that