741 ADDITIONS FROM THE EIGHTH GERMAN EDITION. 5.—P. 93. . Samuel, who in his last work on fever in general agrees in the etiology above given, and refers the increased temperature to in- creased irritation of those nerve-centres which cause production of warmth, denies the existence of a pyrogenous poison, and brings up some strong points against it; he thinks that the blood-change which is the final essence of fever is always the same, in spite of the variety of forms under which it appears. To prevent the introduc- tion and removal of blood and water, etc., from being regarded as pyrogenous actions in the broad sense, he supposes a similar decom- posing tendency of the blood to exist between the products of in- flammation, the above-mentioned and other influences, and the ner- vous centre which is to be excited ; and this is termed the true final pyrogenous factor, the essential element of fever. 6. —P. 126. The recent investigations on the formation of vessels by Arnold, already spoken of, as well as those on tubercle, of which we shall hereafter speak, have given new material for the view that the sub- stance of the wall of the vessel as well as its endothelium takes an active part in the new formation ; and in a I’ecently published work of RiedeVs it is stated as very probable that the greater part of the young tissue formed in a thrombus proceeds from the endothelium. Thus the views on this subject have been unsettled for years. 7. —P. 186. Fracture does not always result from the action of a strong direct force on a bone ; the injury may vary from contusion of the perios- teum to crushing of the bone. There may have been merely com- pression of the periosteum, or the force may have bent the bone, which sprang back to its normal shape without breaking; but at the same time the medulla may have been greatly crushed. In the spongy substance there may be slight breaks or bends, which are never entirely dissipated, even though the cortical substance has not perceptibly changed its form. All these injuries of bones resulting from strong compression are classed as contusions of bone. Concus- sion of bone may result from either direct or indirect force, and be marked by ruptures of the medulla and hfemorrhages. After these injuries, pains and disturbance of function are greater than after injuries of the soft parts ; a certain diagnosis of the grade is often impossible at first. Occasionally concussions of bone with contusion