154 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. the injury and crushing of the parts. This is readily explained by the nerves in the wound being entirely mashed and destroyed, conse- quently incapable of conducting; moreover, what I told you in tlie last lecture about local concussion of nerves, the so-called stupor of the injured part, comes into play. At first sight it seems rather remarkable that these contused wounds bleed little^ if any, even if large veins or arteries be crushed or torn. There are well-observed cases to show that, after complete crusliing of the femoral or axillary arterv, there v/as absolutely no primary haemorrhage. It is true, this is rare; in many cases where there is complete solution of continuity of a large artery by a contusion, although there is no spirting stream, there is constant trickling of blood; this, coming from the femoral artery, would speedily cause death. I have already told you how this arrest of hjemorrhage takes place in small arteries, but will make it clearer to you by an illustra- tion. A railroad hand was run over by a locomotive, so that the Avheel passed over his left thigh just below the hip-joint. The unfor- tunate was at once brought on a litter to the hospital; meantime he had lost much blood, and came in very pale and anmmic, but ijerfectly conscious. After complete removal of the torn clothing, we found a hon-ible mangling of the skin and muscles. The bone was crushed to atoms, the muscles were partly mashed to puljj, partly hung in tags from the wound, the skin was torn up as far as the hip-joint. At no point of this horrible wound did an artery spirt, but from the depth con- siderable blood constantly trickled out, and the general state of the pa- tient clearly showed that he had already lost much blood. It was evident that the only thing to be done here was to amputate at the hip-joint, but in the condition the patient then was, this was not to be thought of; the new loss of blood from this severe operation would undoubt- edly have been at once fatal. Hence it was, first of all, necessary to arrest the hfemorrhage, which evidently came from a rupture of the femoral artery. I first tried to find the femoral in the wound, while it was compressed above; but all the muscles were so displaced, all the anatomical relations were so changed, that this was not quickly done, hence I proceeded to ligate the artery below Poupart’s ligament. After this Avas done, most of the bleeding ceased, but not entirely, on account of the free arterial anastomosis; and as no regular dressing could be applied, on account of the existing mangling, I surrounded the limb firmly with a tourniquet, close below where I projiosed to exarticulate. Now the bleeding stopped; we gave various remedies to revivify the patient; wine, warm drinks, etc., were ad- ministered, so that, toward evening, he bad so far recovered that his temperature was again normal, and the radial jmlse was again good.