FROST-BITES. 273 normal. Generally no remedies are used in these slight cases, but, very properly, patients are warned against warming the parts too rapidly; rubbing with snow, then gradually elevating the tempera- ture, is recommended. The above symptoms are thus explained; First, the capillaries are strongly contracted by the cold, and are then paralyzed for a time. I shall not here discuss the tenability of this hypothesis; this explanation involves all the difficulties that we have already met in the theories of inflammation. Redness following a frost-bite may sometimes remain permanent, i. e., the capillaries remain dilated. This is especially apt to occur in frost-bites of the nose and ears, and is usually incurable. In Ber- lin, I treated a young man who had a dark-blue nose, as a result of frost-bite, and wished at all hazards to be relieved of the deformity. He persistently pursued the different modes of treatment; first, he had the nose painted with coUodion, after which it looked as if varnished, and, as long as the coating of collodion continued, it was somewhat paler, but the improvement was not permanent. Then the nose was painted with dilute nitric acid, which gave it a yellow tint. After detachment of the epidermis the evil again appeared improved for a time ; but it soon returned to its former state. Then we tried treatment with tincture of iodine and nitrate of silver, which for a time gave the nose a brownish-red, then a broAvnish-black color. The patient bore all these changes of color heroically, but the perverse capillaries continued dilated, and the nose remained bluish red at the last, just as it had been. I still thought of trying cold, but feared the condition might be made w’orse, and, after several months’ treatment, had to tell the hero of this tragi-comical history that I could not cure him. The treatment of chilblains and the consecjuent ulcers, of which we shall speak immediately, may be just as difficult. Frost-bite, where, besides redness of the skin, there is formation of vesicles, is more severe; it is often accompanied by complete loss of sensation of the affected part, and there is always danger of mortifica- tion. Tlie formation of vesicles in frost-bite is prognostically much worse than it is in burns. The serum contained in the vesicles is rarely clear, but usually bloody. A limb completely frozen is said to be perfectly stiff and brittle, and small portions are said to break off like glass, if carelessly handled. I have had no opportunity to verify these statements, but remember that, when I was a student, a man was was brought to the Gottingen surgical clinic with both feet frozen; during transportation to the hospital, they had become spontaneously detached at the ankle-joint, so that they hung only by a couple of tendons. Double amputation of the leg above the malleoli had to bo made. How far a limb may be entirely frozen, so that the circulation