SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF TIIE SOFT PARTS. 2G state from very slight loss of blood, occasionally more from loathing and aversion to the flowing blood than from weakness. A single fainting of this kind is no measure of the amount of blood lost; the patient soon recovers his forces. Should the hmmorrhage continue, the following symptoms appear sooner or later: the countenance grows paler and waxy, the lips pale blue, the eyes dull, the bodily temperature is lower, the pulse small, thready, and very frequent, respiration incomplete, the patient faints frequently, constantly grows more feeble and anxious; at last he remains unconscious, and there is twitching of the arms and legs, which is renewed by the slightest irritation, as by the point of a needle, etc.; this state may pass into death. Great dyspnoea, lack of oxygen, is one of the worst signs, but even here we should not hesitate; we can often do something even after apparent death. Young women especially can bear enormous loss of blood without immediate danger to life; you will hereafter have occasion to witness this in the obstetrical clinic. Children and old persons can least bear loss of blood; in young children the results of the application of a leech are often evident for years by a very pallid look and increased excitabilit}'-. In very old persons great loss of blood, if not immediately fatal, may induce obstinate collapse, which after days or weeks passes on to death; this is probably because the loss of blood is immediately supplied by serum, and in old persons the formation of blood-corpuscles goes on slowly; the greatly-diluted blood proves insufficient to nomish the tissues, Avhose nutrition is at any rate very sluggish. When the patient comes to himself after severe hcemorrhage, he has excessive thirst, as if tlie body were dried up, the vessels of the intestinal canal greedily take up the quantities of water drunk; in strong, healthy persons, the cellular constituents of the blood are quickly replaced, it is true we do not exactly know from what source; after a few days, in a person otherwise healthy, we can perceive few signs of the previous anasmia; soon, too, his strength has recovered from the exhaustion. LECTURE III. TrcntmontoflTtBrnorrliaf'c.—1. Ligature and Mediate Ligature of Arteries.—Torsion.— 2. Compression by the Finger; Clioiee of the Pointfor Compression of the Larger Arteries. — Tourniquet. — Aeupressurc.— Bandaging.—Tunipou. —3. Styptics.— General Treatment of Sudden Anajmia.—Transfusion. Gentlemen; You now know the different varieties of InTmorrhage. Now, what means have we for arresting a more or less severe bleeding ?