EXTENSION OF ANCHYLOSES. 553 dyles of the tibia, that is, close above the calf, and with his rignt hand he makes downward pressure on the leg. If the anchylosis be still recent, and not too firm, the leg will gradually give way with a perceptible soft crackling and tearing, and will be straightened bj' degrees. Should e.xtension not be made so readily, the operator places his hand lower on the leg, about the calf or close below it; but then he should not use so much force as he could above, because he might readily fracture the tibia just below the condyles, especially if the bones were a little soft; the force should here act more in the way of traction or extension. If we do not succeed even by this last means, we sliould attempt to rupture the adhesions by strong flexion; Ave seize the leg from the front and try to flex it by slow, regular press- ure ; by this means the adhesions sometimes rupture more readily than by movements toward extension ; after a few of the adhesions have been torn, extension is generally easy. All painful twisting and Avrenching is decidedly injurious, and very rarely does any good. When we have made as much extension as Ave consider prudent for one operation, or, if the leg be fully extended, Ave turn the patient on the back again, let the assistants press down the thigh by means of Hueter's bandages, extend the leg by the foot, and from the foot to Avithin an inch of the peringeum apply a stout plaster-of-Paris dressing, inserting thick layers of Avadding at the knee and at the ends of the bandage (beloAv and above, where there is most pressure). But, as the plaster does not always harden before the patient recovers from his anaesthesia, Ave bind a well-padded hollow splint to the flexor side of the limb, to prevent the knee contracting again ; this holloAV splint is to be removed after three of four hours; by that time the plaster- dressing is hard enough to resist the contracting muscles. The pain that the patient suffers after recovering from his anaesthesia is not al- Avays severe, often it is remarkably slight in proportion to the force employed. The foot sometimes becomes oedematous, if it has not been properly bandaged; but if this has been done, or is done im- mediately after the operation, there is no further trouble. Should the pain be A'ery severe directly after the operation, Ave may apply a blad- der of ice over the plaster-bandage, and give a quarter of a grain of morphia. After eight or ten days Ave may alloAV the patient to grat- ify his wish of getting up with the bandage on, and going about on crutches, or Avith sticks. After eight or tAvelve Aveeks the anchylosis has healed in its new position. MeanAvhile, the patient has throAvn aside his crutches, and goes about Avith a stick, perhaps even Avith- out any support, his knee being stiff, but straight; then the bandage may be removed, and the patient regarded as cured. In the above case we have supposed that an operation succeeded