T33 AFTER-TKEATMENT OF AMPUTATIONS. raspatorium along the bone, separating the periosteum and osteo- phytes from the bone so far into the soft parts that they may cover the stump of bone which shall be left. In sawing, I use a chain-saw^ whose ends I bring out above while the loop is around the bone. In limbs with two bones, this subperiosteal resection or amputation is done on both bones. Care must be taken that the secretion from the periosteal canal from which the bone is removed has a free escape ; it is much inclined to close in front by first intention; then pus may collect deeper in, decompose, and cause osteomj’elitis. I had such an unfortunate case in the army-hospital at Mannheim, in a soldier who was amputated successfully for a severe injury of the knee, and finally died in this way. At that time I did not know of this danger from subperiosteal resection of an amputation-stump, all the previous cases that I had operated on in this way having done well. Observation of old amputation-stumps shows that they change considerably in the course of years: some grow very thin; the mus- cular covering or flaps atrophy from disuse, so that only the skin remains. In the course of years most stumps become conical even if covered with skin alone. This is the more certain to occur, the more poorly nourished and marasmic the patient, and especially in those who have been amputated for caries of the joint, and Avho subse- quently have caries of other bones or in the stump, or pulmonaiy tuber- culosis or lardaceous disease. The bones of such stumps atrophy, and their cortical layer becomes thin. Short thigh-stumps are about the only exception. If these are used much in walking, the muscles going from the pelvis to the thigh develop, the skin and cellular tissue participate in the good nutrition, and the stumjAs become larger than they Avere shortly after the operation. From most old amputation-stumps being covered only by skin, while the muscles have disappeared, some have asserted that it is entirelj’ useless to employ muscle for covering the stump ; but aa'c have already shown that they Avould not heal so Avell. In Lecture IX. Ave treated of neuromata in the amputation- stump. Regarding tlie 2)roffnosis for amputations, we can only say in general terms tliat they are the more dangerous the nearer they are to the trunk. Much depends on the general condition of the patient at the time of operation. Amputations for injuries are always less successful than those made for chronic diseases; but in each case there are many points that Ave will not lose our time about here. Surgeons pay too little attention to the subsequent fate and the artificial limbs of those they amputate. You will hear manv com- 48