MALUM COXiE SENILE. 539 ment is usually chronic, there is little pain, but much stifihess; more rarely the initial stage is acute ; at first, the patients often complain only of stiffness, especially in the morning; after the joint has been used, it grows more movable, the friction is often so marked that the patient calls the physician's attention to it. Attacks with severe pain and slight fe/er are most common where the fingers are the chief seat of the disease; in the course of years the finger-joints are much de- formed. The great toe is dislocated outwardly, and the bony deposits on the head of the first metatarsal bone become very prominent. If the disease develop in the hip, the patients limp slightly; in old per- sons the bony deposits are generally insignificant; but the thigh is graduall}' shortened, from the wearing down of the head of the femur and the acetabulum; the muscles atrophy, the hip gradually grows stiff; but this may not take place for years. The disease is much more frequent in men than in women, and thin people are most liable to it. It is rarely accompanied by disease of other organs, particu- larly the internal ones, but the affection is not unfrequently found in persons predisposed to chalky deposits and abnormal ossifications; rigidity of the arteries, ossification of the ribs and intervertebral car- tilages, and anterior spinal ligaments, are often present in patients suf- fering from malum senile. The diagnosis is easy; after the above description you would not readily mistake the disease. If th'e affection attack a single joint in a 3’’Oung person, we may at first be doubtful if it is a case of fungous inflammation or of arthritis deformans; but, after further observation, the diagnosis will be easy. In the later stages it might also be mis- taken for fungous inflammation, with caries sicca, where we also find atroph}' of the muscles and friction in the joint, and which also runs a very chronic course in young and otherwise health}'- subjects; but in caries sicca there are never such extensiv’e deposits around the joint, as in arthritis deformans, and, even when of long duration, tlie latter shows no tendency to suppuration. When the chronic rheumatic articular inflammation occurs on both sides, or attacks several joints at once, and is accompanied by the reflex contraction of the muscles due to irritation of the synovial membrane, the disease cannot be mis- taken. Rheumatismus nodosus is often confounded with gout, because the effect of the tv’-o diseases on the hands and feet is somewhat simi- lar. But gout is so characterized by its specific attacks, and by the excretion of uric acid, that it should be regarded as a different disease; we liave already spoken about this. prognosis of polyarticular rheumatism is very bad as regards recovery; when it attacks old persons, I consider it entirely incurable. In young patients, by very careful, persistent treatment, the disease