547 ANCHYLOSES. limitation of motion anchyloses, it is well to distinguish them as anchyloses fi-om external causes, anchylosis spuria, etc. Now, we have left those cases of stiffness of the joints which are caused by path- ological changes of parts actually pertaining to the joint; under this head we have the following cases: 1. Cicatricial adhesions between adjacent surfaces of the joint itself; these may differ greatly in variety and extent; they form after cure of fungous articular inflammations, by adhesion of the prolifer- ating-granulating surfaces ; stringlike adhesions are thus formed, like those between the costal and pulmonary pleura, or else there are thick extensive adhesions of the surfaces; along with this state the cartilage may be partly preserved, or it, together with part of the bone, may be destroyed. Generally, these adhesions, like other cicatrices, are formed of connective tissue; in other cases, especially when the joint remains perfectly quiet, this cicatricial tissue ossifies, and the two articular surfaces are united by bony bridges, or else the entire surfaces are completely soldered together (Figs. 104-106). Fig. 104. Band-llke adhesions in a resected elbow-joint from an adult, almost natural size. 2. Further impediments to mobility are cicatricial shrinkages of the articular capsule, of the accessory ligaments, and even of the semilunar cartilages, which may also be entirely destroyed. These cicatricial contractions occur not only at places where fistulm have formed, but also when there has been no suppuration, for any tissue that has long been infiltrated, and so more or less softened, subse- quently shrinks some, after the process has run its course. 3. A not insignificant impediment to mobility, and one which is the cause of its occasional non-recurrence after extensive fungous inflammations of the joints, lies in the adhesion of the walls of the synovial sacs about the joint, which normally should glide over each other. To render this clear to you, I must touch on the normal con- ditions of the larger joints in motion. The capsule of the joint is