RACHITIS. 497 the forms of periostitis and ostitis that we have studied in scrofulous children, for it never leads to caries. The disproportion between the growth of the bone and deficient impregnation of its tissue with chalky salts results in lack of firmness of the bones ; consequently thev bend, especially those that bear the weight of the body. Where the bones are very soft, muscular contraction also acts on them so as to induce curvature. These curvatures are most common in the lower extremities; the femur bends anteriorly and inwardly, the bones of the leg bend anteriorly and outwardly or inward. The tho- rax is compressed laterally so that the sternum projects sharply, and the result is the so-called chicken-breast {^pectus carinatum). In high grades of rachitis there are also distortions of the pelvis, spinal column, and upper extremities. In such children the occiput long remains soft and compressible, and detitition is delayed. Sometimes the softness of the occiput is the sole symptom of rachitis, so that this has even been regarded as independent of the general rachitic disturbance. According to Virchoio, the distortion of the upper extremities depends mostly on a number of small curvatures (infrac- tions) of the entire bone, or of parts of the cortical layer. Complete fractures rarely occur; if they do, the bone is again united firmly by callus, under the ordinary treatment. Rachitis causes other changes in the bone besides tliese deformi- ties, namely, thickening of the epiphyses and of the point of union between the costal cartilages and the bony ribs. The thickening of the epiphyses may be so great, at the lower end of the radius, for instance, that above the wrist, at the point just above the epiphy- seal cartilage, there is a second depression in the skin ; this appear- ance of the joint has given rise to the term “ double-jointed ; ” the nodular thickenings on the anterior ends of the ribs are often very remarkable, and, as they lie regularly under one another, they have been called the “ rachitic rose-garland.” If these changes in the bone have taken place, there is no hesitation in diagnosing rachitis; before they have become evident, the diagnosis is doubtful. It is true, there are some prodromal symptoms ; voracious appetite, pot-belly, disin- clination to standing and walking ; hut these symptoms are always too undecided to permit any definite conclusion. The disease most frequently begins in the second year, and attacks well-nourished or even fat children ; indigestion and inclination to constipation occur occasionally, but not always. We know little of the exciting causes of rachitis; here in Germany it is about equally frequent in all classes of society; hereditary influence may have some effect; we may sus- pect, but cannot prove, a disturbance in the composition of the blood, in the assimilation of nutriment. In regard to the course of the dis-