307 ACUTE PERIOSTITIS. tation of the vessels, cell-infiltration, and serous imbibition of the tis- sue, in their various combinations, constitute the essence of acute in flammations. In the compact bone-substance (as in the cortical layer of a long bone) all these requirements cannot occur. In many places at least, the capillary vessels are so closely embedded in the Haver- sian canals that they cannot dilate much ; a certain amount of serous infiltration of the bone is imaginable; but the firm bone-substance cannot possess much capability of swelling. If the term inflamma- tion be made so general as to include every quantitative and qualita- tive disturbance of nutrition, it would be a very peculiar view, in which I do not participate. Every tissue attacked by inflammation changes its physical and chemical nature, and in acute inflammation of the soft parts this takes place rajaidly; the connective tissue es- pecially is quicldy changed to a gelatinous, albuminous substance ; the tissue of the cornea and cartilage may also change verj' quickly. For chemical reasons this is impossible in bone ; time is required for the chalky salts of the bone to dissolve, and the bone-cartilage left deli- quesces like other tissue. Hence, inflammation of compact bony tis- sue, severe though it be, cannot run its course very rapidly; it always takes a long while. The above refers only to compact bone-substance ; spongy bones may readily become inflamed, that is, there may be in- flammation of the medulla contained in the spongy bones which has the same peculiarities as that of the long bones, only it is not collected together as it is in them, but it is distributed in the meshes of the bones ; each space contains many capillaries, connective tissue, fat-cells, and nerves; acute inflammation of the spongy bones first oc- curs in these interspaces, and gradually extends to the bone proper. What is called acute ostitis of a spongy bone is at first only acute os- teomyelitis. This when idiopathic is rarely acute, but is usually chronic, sometimes subacute. On the other hand, there is a traumatic acute osteomyelitis of spongy bones, about which we shall here say something, although we have discussed its more important features when treating of suppuration of bone. Imagine an amputation wound close below the knee: the tibia has been sawed through its upper spongy part; traumatic inflammation occurs in the medulla of the bone, in the meshes of the bone-substance, with proliferation oJ vessels, ccll-infiltration, etc. ; this leads to development of granula- tions, which grow out from the medulla and soon form a granulatiim surface; this cicatrizes in the usual manner. But subsequently, if you have a chance to examine such a stump, you find that, at the saAved surface of the bone, the meshes are filled with bone-subslance, and the outer layer of the spongy bone is transformed to compact bony substance; that is, the cicatrix in the bone has ossified. This is the