669 PAPILLOMATA. mucous membranes, especially on the portio vaginalis, more rarely in the rectal and nasal mucous membrane. According to the surgical nomenclature hitherto in use, they come in the category of mucous polypi. They are often complicated tumors, in which proliferation and ectasia of the glands, formation of sarcomatous intermediate sub- stance, and papilloma, all go together. They are mostly pedunculated tumors; occasionally a large surface of mucous membrane becomes diseased at the same time. These papillomata are rarely infectious, but they occasionally recur after extirpation. The extensive papillomata that occasionally occur in the larynx in children are perhaps always of syphilitic origin. I formerly called tumors with papillary formation, which developed from vitreous mucous tissue, cylindromata / but this formation is not so characteristic as I formerly supposed; it occurs both in sarcomatous and carcinomatous tumors. Fibromatous and sarcomatous papillm may develop on the inner surface of cysts. 11. ADENOMATA—PARTIAL GLANDULAR UYPERTROPHY. New formation of genuine, regularly-developed glands or parts of glands is not frequent, although we shall hereafter learn that, in cancer, incomplete development of glands is one of the most common forms of neoplasia. Although sarcoma of the mamma was often spoken of as partial hyperplasia of the gland, because glands were found in it, of late it has appeared doubtful whether gland-acini were really developed in the tumors formerly described as adenosarcoma (page C57); from my own observations, I must consider true adenoma of the breast as very rare; I have only seen it once, it was then in a tubular form. Forster and others, however, describ.e acinous adenoma of the mamma; on account of this rarity, not much can be said about the prognosis of these tumors, which usually remain small. They are generally con- sidered as entirely benignant; but, on anatomical grounds, it seems to me probable that they cannot differ so much in prognosis from carcinoma. So far as my investigations go, the so-called hypertrophy of the prostate is never accompanied by develojament of adenoma, but onlv by ectasia of the acini and epithelial hyperplasia; the frequently-ob- serv'ed enlargement of this gland depends essentially on diffuse or nodular myoma (page 637). The glands of the skin and some mucous membranes may also o-ive 44