143 CONTUSIONS OP NERVES AND VESSELS. cannot judge whether these changes have any effect, and, if so, what, on the subsequent course of the contusion, and of the contused wound; hence we cannot here study the nerves any further. Some unim- peachable observations seem to prove that this concussion of periph- eral nerves may induce motor and sensory paralysis, as well as atrophy of the muscles of a limb; but the connection between cause and effect is often difficult to prove. Contusions of the nerves are distinguished from concussions by the fact that in them certain parts of the nerve-trunks, or their whole thickness, is destroyed, to the most varied extent and degree, by the force applied, so that we find them more or less pulpy. Under these circumstances, there must be a paralysis corresponding to the injury, from which we determine the nerve affected, and the extent of the effect. On the whole, such contusions of nerves without wounds are rare, for the chief nerve-trunks lie deep between the muscles, and so are less apt to be injured directly. It must a priori be acknowledged that concussion may affect other organs and tissues than nerves, and induce temporary or per- manent disturbances, not only of the functional but of the nutritive processes. Such disturbances may also have an important influence on the course of repair after the injury, and are mentioned by some surgeons as the chief causes of inflammations that are occasionally very violent and develop easily-decomposing exudations and infiltra- tions. I am far from denying the influence of an energetic concus- sion on a bone whose medulla and vessels are thereby torn, without its being fractured; under some circumstances the results of such an injury might be more extensive and tedious than those of a fracture from too great bending; but we should not ascribe the frequent severity of the course of contused wounds entirely to this cause. Contusions of the vessels must be much more apparent, since the walls of the smaller vessels, especially of the subcutaneous veins, are destroyed by the contusing force, and blood escapes from them. Hence, subcutaneous hcemorrJiage is the almost constant consequence of a contusion. It would be much more considerable if in this variety of injury the wound of the vessel had sharp edges, and gaped; but this is not usually the case. Contused wounds of the vessel are rough, uneven, ragged, and these irregularities foi'm obstacles to the escape of the blood; the friction is so great that the pressure of the blood is unable to overcome it; fibrinous clots form on these inequal- ities, even extending into the calibre of the vessel, causing mechanical closure of the vessel, or thrombus. Contusion of the wall of a ves- sel, with alteration of its structure, may alone cause coagulation of tlie blood; for liriicJce has proved that a living, healthy intimu of the