TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS. 591 incline to it more than formerly; especially since the investigations of Broca., intermittent digital compression has shown some brilliant results. I think that, in most cases of aneurism, compression should be first resorted to; but observation shows that it is not alike suited for all cases, and is not of radical benefit in all. [Mr. Goote reports a case where aneurism of the innominate artery was cured by the appli- cation of a bladder of ice.] 2. Ligation of the artery. This may be done in various ways ; a, close above the aneurism (after AneV); h, far above the aneurism, at a point of election {J. Hunter); c, close below the aneurism, i. e,, at its peripheral end (after War drop and Brasdor). Of all these methods, hgation close above the aneurism is proportionately the most certain; ligation close below it the least certain. Ligation at a distance from the aneurism will cure the disease for a short time, occasionally even permanently, i. e., the pulsation in the aneurism will cease, but, when the collateral circulation develops fully, the pulsation may begin again. I have myself seen such a case; from a puncture with a penknife, a boy twelve years old had an aneurism the size of a large walnut in the femoral artery, about the middle of the thigh; the femoral was ligated close below Poupart’s ligament; in ten days the ligature cut through, and there was great haemor- rhage, which, however, was instantly checked; then, after dividing Poupart’s ligament, a second ligature was applied half an inch higher; this ligature held well; the wound healed ; when the patient left the hospital there was again pulsation in the aneurism, which had previously become perfectly hard, and had ceased pulsating. But, in spite of such relapses, ligation remote from the aneurism will retain its importance, and continue the chief method, for, in the vicinity of the aneurism, the artery is occasionally so diseased that it is not advisable to ligate there; for the rigid and ossified artery might be so quickly cut through by the ligature that the thrombus ■would not be firm enough when the ligature falls. 3. Remedies which are supposed to directly induce coagulation of the blood in aneurisms. Of these, injection of liquor ferri sesqui- chlorati, after Bravaz and Petrequin, is relatively most frequently used; it must be done very carefully: it should be made with a small syringe, whose piston is moved by a screw, with every turn of which a drop escapes; a few drops of tlie liquor ferri should thus be very carefully forced into the tumor. Simple coagulation and shrinking of the aneurism may, and it is said do, follow this; but experience has shown that it is more frequently followed by inflammation, sup- puration, and gangrene. I think that the action of the injected liquor