LOCAL TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 433 long, with wooden handles, and with a button-shaped, cylindrical, or prismatic end, which is placed in a basin of hot coals till it reaches a red or white heat. With this, various grades of burns, even to charring the skin, and burns of variable size, form, and depth, may be induced, according as Ave desire extensive suppuration, or several dis- tinct small ulcers. It w’ould lead me too far, and not be very comprehensible for you at present, were I here to enter into an exhaustive criticism about the choice and various gradations of the above remedies. These are things that you learn more quickly and certainly in the clinic, from the remarks on an individual case. I will only observe that the applica- tion of the more intense derivatives, such as fontanels, moxrn, setons, and the hot iron, to children and susceptible, delicate persons, should be made very carefully, and had better be avoided. I scarcely ever use the hot iron as a derivative, though I sometimes employ it to destroy spongy granulations in caries, occasionally with very good effect. Almost all classes of remedies have for a time been somewhat the fashion, according to the prevailing theories, and so there was a time wdien raoxfe, the hot iron, or fontanels, Avere praised as uniA’’ersal rem- edies in every chronic inflammation. A fontanel was applied on the ann to protect the person against rheumatism, hsemorrhoids, tubercu- losis, or cancer, A\dth the idea that Avith the pus fi-om the fontanel all morbid juices, the materia peccans, were throAvn off from the body. In the same Avay, formerly, at certain seasons, purgatiA’^es, emetics, A'enesections, etc., Avere resorted to yearly. Even at present you Avill hear old practitioners tell gleefully Iioav this or that patient was pre- serA^ed from a multitude of ills by the application of a fontanel. I shall not presume to criticise what may be accomplished by this treat- ment, for, as Avas mentioned, Ave are far from knowing hoAV to meas- use its physiological effect; but Ave should mistrust the action of reme- dies that are recommended against all possible diseases.