414 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. to try to maintain this in practice. And you must not suppose that it is always so easy to class every patient in certain groujjs, just as plants are analyzed and their systems determined, for all classes of men may breed with each other; moreover, some abnormally-formed individuals may become perfectly normal in the course of time, and the reverse; thus a number of middle forms naturally result, Avhich defy any classification. There are now, as there have at all times been, jahysicians who are too skeptical about the existence of a gen- eral morbid disposition to certain forms of disease, and only acknowl- edge local and partly only accidental irritations as causes. Such a hyperskeptical current ran through modern medicine a short time since, and was perfectly justified, for the crasis doctrine had become so luxuriant, that there was scarcely a variety of inflammation, scarcely a disease, in fact, which was not based on some specific crasis. Who- ever observes independently and carefully, and at the same time has the opportunity of seeing a variety of patients, will certainly arrive at the correct -sdew in the course of time, and will neither throw him- self too unreservedly into the arms of the crasis theory, nor set aside, as illusions and deceptions, the experiences of centuries. It is a ques- tion whether it be of any practical value to use such terms as scrofu- lous or syphilitic inflammation, if it would not be better to regard the chronic inflammatory processes -without any regard to their origin. The future will decide this question; at present I deem it my duty as teacher to clear your views on these points as much as possible, and to place you in a position to be able to understand all your colleagues speaking on these subjects, no matter to what school they belong. But enough of this general explanation ; let us draw a brief sketch of the different diatheses and dyscrasim : 1. The lymphatic or scrofulous diathesis (scrofula). This tendency to disease exists chiefly during childhood, though more advanced ages are not free from it. Persons with this diathesis, especially children, are greatly disposed to chronic inflammatory swellings of the lym- phatic glands, even after inconsiderable irritations, to certain inflam- mations of the skin (eczema, impetigo), especially of the fiice and head, to catarrhal inflammations of the mucous membranes, especially of the conjunctiva, more rarely of the intestinal canal and respiratory organs, to chronic inflammations of the periosteum and of the sjmovial membranes of the joints. As regards the swelling of the lymphatic glands, especially of the snbmaxillary and occipital, it has been asserted that it is merely a result of irritation from dentition, or of the eczematous eruptions on the head, of the inflammations of the eye, ear, etc. ; this is partly correct, but even taking this view, that all swellings of the lymphatic glands arc secondary, even then for the