304 ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE RONES, PERIOSTEUM, ETC. medulla of the bone, partly from the periosteum. If it suppurate, the continuity of the bone is destroyed, and at the seat of the epi- physis there is motion, as in fracture ; dislocations may also be caused by contraction of liie muscles. Usually there is only one such epi- physeal sejiaration of the alfected bone, above or below ; in rare cases it is double. I have once seen this double separation of the epiphy- ses in the tibia; several times I have seen separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur, once of the upper end of this bone, once of the lower end of the humerus, twice of the upper end. In one case I saw epiphyseal softening, with luxation of the lower end of the femur, occur without suppuration. It has already been stated that inflammation of the neighboring joints are apt to accompanj’' perios- titis. These articular inflammations usually have a rather subacute course. The serous fluid collecting in the joint is usually reabsorbed as the acute disease of the bone subsides, but the joint often remains swollen, and not infrequently permanently still’. Several times, also, I have seen acute periostitis and osteomyelitis of the femur succeed acute articular rheumatism of the knee. Lastly, we must also men- tion that this osteomyelitis may occur in several bones at once. The diagnosis as to how far periosteum and bone are affected in the acute disease cannot be made with any certainty, but can only lie decided by the extent of the consequent necrosis; and even this is no accurate measure, for the periostitis may end in suppuration, while the inflammation in the bone may end in resolution, or only cause some interstitial formation of bone. The process may start: 1. In the loose cellular-tissue layer of the periosteum; this suppurates. If the suppuration be limited to this layer, after opening the abscess we may pass the finger directly to the surface of the bone, which we find covered with the granulating tendinous part of the periosteum ; if the latter layer also siqipurates, as it not infi’equently does, tlie bone lies exposed, and the suppuration may continue into it. Thus osteomyelitis accompanies periostitis. If it be denied tliat the loose cellular layer is periosteum, but is to be regarded as part of the inter- muscular cellular tissue (which would not be natural, because tlie vessels escaping from the bone lie chiefly in this layer), tlien there is no such thing as acute periostitis ; for the tendinous portion of tlie ])criosteum is as little liable to primary inflammation as the fascias and tendons. 2. Tlie inflammation begins in the bone, and tlience extends to the periosteum and cellular tissue; osteomyelitis is the jirimarv, periostitis the secondary, disease. Then there is ]ius not only in the iione, but on its surface, close under the tendinous imrtion of the periosteum. This is elevated by the pus, as far as its elasticity jier- mits; it is then perforated, and the jms escapes into the cellular tissue