458 CERONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE PERIOSTEUM, BONE, ETC. LECTURE XXXIIT. Primary Central, Chronic Ostitis, or Caries.—Symptoms.—Ostitis Interna Osteoplas- tiea. Suppurativa, Fuugosa.—Abscess of Bone.—Combinations.-Ostitis with Ca- seous Metamorphosis.—Tubercles of Bone.—Diagnosis of Caries.—Dislocation of the Bones atter their Partial Destruction.—Congestion Abscesses.—Etiology. Hitherto we have only treated of chronic ostitis in so far as it is dependent on periostitis. This is almost always the case in the hol- low bones, for in them the cortical layer is not much disposed to be- come primarily diseased. The case is different with the spongy bones and bony parts ; in them a chronic inflammation may arise indepen- dently, just as in the medullary cavity of a hollow bone there may oc- cur a circun)scribed chronic osteomyelitis, so that the cortical substance may become diseased from within. These cases are designated as ostitis interna or caries centralis. The symptoms of such a chronic inflammation, occurring deep in the bone, are in many cases very un- decided. A dull, moderate pain, and a consequent slight impairment of function, often form the only symptoms. Swelling comes on later, and the disease may exist for months before we can form a certain diagnosis. But when we find severe pain on pressure, and oedema of the skin, and the periosteum participates secondarily in the chronic inflammation, we shall gradually be led to the correct diagnosis, the more readily if the disease be circumscribed, and perforation finally takes place, so that we may pass a probe through the opening deep into the bone, and find exactly what is the state of affairs. In many cases periostitis is for a long time the chief symptom of ostitis; the former may be so prominent that it appears to be the only disease, till, from the long duration, and from losses of substance from within, or lastly, perhaps, even by detachment of small pieces of bone, attention is called to the fact that the continued suppuration is due to disease deep in the bone. It has already been stated that chronic inflamma- tion in bone first shows itself by the chalky salts becoming soluble. So far we have only studied cases where the disease was circum- scribed and progressed inward from the surface. Now, imagine an ostitis developing in a spongy bone, as one of the tarsal bones, or in the diaphysis of one of the long bones, as in the lower part of the tibia, and the chalky salts disappearing from the bony tissue while the vessels of the medulla increase, and the medulla, infiltrated with wandering cells, gradually takes the place of the disappearing bony tissue. Here we have the picture of a pure ostitis inalacissans, an osteomalacia intlamraatoria or rarefying ostitis ( VolA‘man7j). In this