637 MYOMATA. NEUROMATA. LECTURE XLVII. 5. Myoma.—6. Neuroma.—7. Angioma: a, Plexiform ; 5, Cavernous.—Operations. 5. MYOMATA. At present it remains undecided whether there are pure myomata^ I. e., tumors consisting entirely o£ transversely-striated muscle-fila- ments or their cells; I do not know that any such have been observed. The occurrence of newly-formed transversely-striated muscle-fila- ments has been very rarely observed in tumors. No tumor was ever entirely composed of them; they were usually an accidental occur- rence in sarcoma or carcinoma (of the testicle, ovary, or mamma), or in tumors of very complicated formation. I have examined tumors in which there were distinct stages of development of muscular fila- ments, but the right of classing such tumors as myomata has been disputed. I can say httle against this, as we cannot call tumors, con- sisting of grades of development of connective tissue, fibromata, and as I formerly objected (page 619) to terming uterus fibroma, composed of spindle-cells, myomata, as we are not quite sure of the relation of spindle-cells to muscle-cells. In old men, extensive newly-formed smooth muscles occur in the prostate, partly as independent nodules, partly as diffuse enlargements of the organ. There is certainly no objection to terming these so-called prostatic hypertrophies (there is usually some coincident glandular) myoma; similar myoma-nodules, are met in the muscular coat of the oesophagus and stomach. Clinically, nothing certain can be said of myomata in these conditions ; the tu- mors which I considered as young myomata in the muscles had, on section, a medullary fascicular appearance an insuperable tendency to local recurrence, and thus caused death. 6. NEUROMATA. It has already been mentioned (page 622) that the name “ neuro- ma ” is often applied to tumors occurring on the nerves; this is, if you please, a practical misuse, which, however, it is difficult to root out. By “ true neuroma ” we mean a tumor composed entirely of nerve- filaments, especially of those with double contours; they appear to come only on nerves, and are very rare. Neuromata in amputation- stumps have already been mentioned (page 117); many doubt wliethei there are any other true neuromata. True neui'omata are always very painful. Many of the fibromata on and in nerves contain very peculiar bundle-like fine filaments richly supjill.ed with nuclei, which may very