INFLAMMATION OF THE JOINTS. 311 stiff, the flexed position of the knee, which is so frequent, is avery un- fortunate addition to the stiffness, as it renders the limb nearly if not entirely useless. Why the acutely-diseased joint, especially in intense suppurative synovitis, almost always involuntarily assumes a flexed position, is a difficult question, which may be answered in various ways: it has been said that there is a sort of reflex action on the motor muscular nerve from the irritation of the sensory nerves of the synovial membrane, and that this is the cause of the muscular con- traction. Bonnet^ a French surgeon, who has done much for the treatment of diseases of the joints, thinks that in great distention of the joint with pus, or even by swelling of the sjmovial membrane, the flexed position may be caused mechanically, as the space in the joint is greater in the flexed than in the extended position; he has tried to prove this by injecting the joints in the cadaver, and by filling them completely he has brought them into the flexed position. Against this it may be said that in hydrops acutus, where there is usually more fluid in the joint than there is in purulent synovitis, the flexion does not occur, and also that in acute inflammations, where I could satisfy myself of the non-existence of fluid, there was flexion. It seems to me that the acute, puffy, painful swelling of the synovial membrane is the chief cause of the flexion, hence I should incline to the first ex- planation, according- to which the pain is the irritation that induces contraction of the muscles of the limb: other muscles also, in parts sufiFering from acute pain, contract, as the cervical muscles in -deep- seated abscesses of the neck. The malposition should be relieved; this should be done for each joint in such a way that in case of com- plete stiffness its position shall be most favorable. Thehq^ and knee- joint should be extended, the foot and elbow at right angles; the wrist and shoulder do not get out of position ; tlie former usually re- mains extended, the latter usually takes such a position that the arm lies against tlie thorax. Tliere is very great difference in the frequency of acute disease in the diff erent joints; the knee is most frequently aifected, then the elbow and wrist; acute inflammation of the hip, shoulder, and ankle, is rare. Acute articular inflammations are more frequent in young persons tlian in old, but hardly ever occur in chil- dren. But, to return again to the improvement of the position of the joint: you will tell me this is impossible. Chloroform is here useful; this remedy has become most important in the treatment of inflamma- tions of the joints. You narcotize the patient deeply, and can then move the limb without trouble; the muscles, which previously co)i- tracted on the least touch, now yield without difficulty. If we continue with our former hypothetical case, you extend the knee, envelop it in a thick layer of waddiiig, and apjfly a i)laster-splint from the foot to