TREATMEx\T OF VARICES. 679 tations; inflammation of the wall of the vein and surrounding cellular tissue follows, and, although, under early treatment, the inflammation usually terminates in resolution, suppuration or abscess may eventu- ally develop. The treatment is the same as has been already given for traumatic thrombus and phlebitis. Another danger that may arise from varix is its rupture, a very rare occurrence ; if the patient be kept quiet, the bleeding may be readily checked by compression, and there is no danger if medical aid be at hand. A varicose ulcer, in the strict meaning, may form from such a ruptured varix, but this is rare, for the wound usually heals quickly. If the skin and subcu- taneous tissue of the leg be greatly indurated, and if this induration has also affected the adventitia of the cutaneous veins, they lie im- movable, and, in the firm, leathery, rigid skin, they feel like half canals or gutters. I call your attention to this, as otherwise in such cases, from the induration of the skin, you might entirely overlook the varices. The treatment of varices is veiy unsatisfactory, as we know no way of removing the disposition to this disease of the veins. Nor can we usually control the causes of the pressure; so we may really conclude that varices are not curable, i. e., we have no remedy for restoring the morbidly-dilated veins to their normal size. For some cases we must say that, physiologically considered, the foi'mation of varices is Nature’s mode of equalizing abnormal pressure in the ves- sels, and that we may not try to remove the varices till we can get rid of their causes, for, if we removed one or more of these morbid strings, others would form in their place. For this reason I reject all operations which aim at removing one or more varicose nodules from the leg. If you bear in mind that any operation on the veins may prove dangerous to life by complication with thrombosis or embolism, 3’ou will agree with me in considering the operation for varices en- tirely uncalled for. Nevertheless, these operations are often done in France, and not unfrequently prove fatal; there are many metliods of operation, about which we shall say a few words. The oldest method, which was practised by the Greeks, consists in exposing the varicose veins, and either cutting or tearing them out. Later, the hot iron was applied to induce coagulation of blood in the veins, which resulted in obliteration of the vessels. We may also inject liquor ferri sesquichlorati with a small sju-inge having a needle-shaped noz- zle, as you know this quickly causes coagulation of the blood. After this came the ligature of the veins, especially the subcutaneous liga- ture after Iticord, and the subcutaneous rolling-up, the enroidement of Vidal^ little operations that I shall show you in the course on op- erations ; these are very ingenious methods, but I am sorry to say they do not succeed, and are not free from danger.