249 CHANGES IN OLD LUXATIONS. anatomical changes in the joint and parts around are as follows : the extravasated blood is reabsorbed; the capsule folds together and atrophies ; the head of the bone rests against some bone in the vicin- ity of the articulating cavity ; for instance, in luxation of the humerus inward against the ribs under the pectoralis major, the soft parts about the dislocated head become infiltrated with plastic lymph and transform to cicatricial connective tissue, which partly ossifies, so that a sort of bony articular cavity again forms, while the head is surrounded by a newly-formed connective-tissue capsule. In the cartilage of the head of the bone, the following changes visible to the naked eye occur: the cartilage becomes rough, fibrous, and grows adherent to the parts on which it lies, by a cicatricial, firm connective tissue. In the course of time this adhesion becomes very firm, espe- cially if not disturbed by movements. The metamorphosis of cartilage to connective tissue, followed microscopically, takes place as follows : the cartilage-tissue divides directly into fine filaments, so that the tissue acquires first the appearance of fibrous cartilage, then of ordi- nary cicatricial connective tissue, which unites with the parts around and receives vessels from them. The surrounding muscles, as far as they are not torn, lose a large part of their filaments, partly from molecular disintegration, partly from fatty metamorphosis of the con- tractile substance; subsequently, new muscular filaments form in these muscular cicatrices. This is what we call an old luxation, and it is in such cases espe- cially that the above methods of forcible reduction are employed. The question, how long a luxation must have existed before its repo- sition is to be considered impossible, cannot be answered since the introduction of chloroform, and is to be difl'erently answered for the various joints. Thus, dislocations of the shoulder maybe reduced after existing for years, while those of the hip-joint two or three months old are reduced with difficulty. The chief obstacle lies in the firm adhesions of the head of the bone in its new position, and in the loss of contractility of the muscles, and their degeneration to connective tissue. Another question is, whether, when such old dislocations are reduced, we attain the desired effect on the function, especially in the slioulder. Imagine that the small articulating cavity is filled by the atrophied capsule, and that the head of the bone has lost its cartilage, then, even if we succeed in bringing the head to its normal position, restoration of function may still be impossible, and I can assure you, from my own experience, that the final result of a very tiresome and long after-treatment in such cases does not always repay the patience and perseverance of the patient and surgeon. In such cases, the result uill scarcely be more favonible than if the patient tiles, by methodical