541 TREATMENT OF FOLYARTICULAR RHEUMATISM. rendering him less susceptible to external influences, especially to catching cold; moreover, drinking quantities of water, and the wrap- ping up after the baths, have a diuretic and diaphoretic effect; besides, this mode of treatment has the advantage that patients will follow it out conscientiously and perseveringly, while they soon tire of taking medicines; as is well known, hydropaths soon become enraptured with the system, and are very satisfactory patients even where the treat- ment is unsuccessful. Hence, if the patient be not too much debili- tated, and have no disinclination to the treatment (as sometimes happens), it should be tried, but should be continued at least a year to be of any real benefit. Russian vapor-baths have also been success- ful in some cases, as have also pine-needle baths. In badly-nourished patients the disease has also been cured by cod-liver oil, quinine, and iron. For local treatment we may rub in various things—the friction is doubtless the most important part of the application; you may use iodine-ointment, simple grease, volatile liniment, etc. Strong deriva' tive remedies are of no use, and even tincture of iodine is only bene- ficial in subacute attacks, in which cases blisters may also be tried Be careful about applying powerful irritants to the joint; in chronic, torpid cases douches may prove very efficacious; even hot or steam douches and local sulphur-baths have proved beneficial in some cases; but in other cases even the mildest shower-bath, from a foot high, proves too irritating; we cannot always prophesy the effect, the patient should try it carefully under the supervision of the surgeon ; ' as soon as pain is excited, the douche should be stopped, and, after a period of rest, be tried w'ith new precautions; if the pains come on again, and increase, the douches had best be given up. Should the limbs be kept at rest or moved ? For various reasons perfect rest is not desirable: first, because the joint would become stiff, often in a very unfavorable position; secondly, because absolute rest still more increases the atrophy of the muscles. Moderate motion, both passive and active, avoiding the excitation of pain or fatigue, should be made ; the patient may make tlie passive motions with his own hands, or with the very ingenious machine invented by Sonnet for this purpose. Lastly, we must add something about muscular atrophy. We attempt to strengthen the muscles by friction, elec- tricity, and regulated movements both active and passive ; here cura- tive gymnastics sometimes prove beneficial. But, to be of benefit, any of these methods of treatment must be followed perseveringly. From this therapeutical review you see we are not poor in reme- dies that may prove serviceable in chronic rheumatism, but all these modes of treatment are expensive and often unattainable by poor patients, and, as this class are peculiarly liable to the disease they 3(5 ’