OPENINGS OF THE JOINTS. 237 low splint, or between two sacs of sand. If, besides this, you give some internal remedy, such as a mild purgative, I think enough has been done for the time. In most text-books on surgery, it is true, you will find the advice to put on a number of leeches, and to keep a bladder of ice constantly applied, to prevent too much inflammation. But I can assure you that local abstraction of blood and cold do not even here have this prophylactic, antiphlogistic action, and that it is time enough to resort to ice in a later stage, although I will not blame any one for using ice from the first in inflammation of the joint. The above dressing I have of late replaced by the plaster-dressing ; I apply it as for a fracture of the knee-joint, from the foot to above the mid- dle of the thigh, with a position-splint, then cut an opening corre- sponding to the anterior surface of the knee and the wound; the results of this treatment, as compared to the old regular antiphlogistic treat- ment, are verj' brilliant. Let us return to our patient. You will find that, on the third or fourth day, he will complain somewhat of burning pain in the joint, and be slightly feverish ; on applying your hand, tlie joint feels warmer than the healthy one. When you have re- moved the sutures, on the fifth or sixth day, in the following two days the course may be in one of two very different directions. Let us first take the favorable case, which is frequent under early treatment with firm dressings; the wound will heal entirely by first intention, the shght swelling and pain in the joint will diminish during the fol- lowing days, and finally disappear entirely. If you remove the dress- ing in from four to six weeks, the joint will be again movable; the recovery is complete. But in other cases, especially where the patient comes under treatment late, things turn out worse. Toward the end of the first week there are not only great swelling and heat in the joint, but there is oedema of the leg; the patient has severe pain on being touched, as Avell as on every attempt at motion; toward evening he has high ' fever, he loses his appetite, and begins to emaciate. At this time the Avound may be closed, or a sero-mucous and subsequently purulent fluid escapes from it. But even if this be not the case, the above svmp- toms, especially the swelling of the joint, Avith distinct fluctuation, the , pain, increased temperature, oedema of the leg, the increase of fever, ' point to an acute, intense inflammation of the joint. If in such cases the limb be not fixed, it gradually assumes a flexed position, Avhich in tlie knee-joint may increase to an acute angle. It is not easy to give the reason for this flexed position of inflamed joints; it seems to me most probable that it arises, in a reflex manner, by a transfer of the irritation of the sensible nerves of the inflamed synovia to the motor nerves of the flexor muscles. Another explanation is, that eA^ery