298 ACUTE NON-TRAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT PARTS. fibrine and rubbing against each other, when the tendons are moved; this form of subcutaneous inflammation is most common on the back of the hand, and almost always terminates in resolution. The very acute inflammations of the sheaths of the tendons, arising from un- knowm causes and going on to suppuration, are rare ; they begin like an acute phlegmon; the subcutaneous cellular tissue quickly partici- pates in the inflammation; the limb swells greatly, and the adjacent finger or wrist-joint may be drawn into the inflammation. Like the synovial membrane of the joints, that of the tendinous sheaths occa- sionally seems to furnish products that intensely affect the surround- ing parts. If, under suitable treatment, the disease does not go on to suppuration, or, if this be only partial, resolution slowly occurs; the limb remains stiff a long while; the adhesions between the tendon and its sheath do not break down till after months of use. If there be extensive suppuration of the sheaths of the tendon (which, in the hand, has been termed “panaritium tendinosum”), the tendons usually be- come necrosed, and after a time may be drawn out of the abscess openings as white threads and shreds; the membrane then degener- ates to spongy granulations. If the process be now arrested, one or more fingers will be stiff, and remain so for life. If the joints be also attacked in the fingers, there may be recovery with anchylosis; but, if the wrist or ankle-joint be affected, its existence will be greatly endan- gered. In acute suppurative inflammation of the tendinous sheaths, tlie fever is occasionally slight at first, but in severe cases the disease may begin with a chill. The fimther the inflammation and suppuration extend, the less the process tends to formation of an abscess, the more continued the fever becomes, and it assumes a distinctly remittent form ; at the same time the patients are rapidly pulled down; in a few weeks the strongest men emaciate to skeletons. The prognosis is bad when the fever runs on with intermittent attacks and chills. The treatment of subcutaneous, crepitating inflammations of the sheaths of the tendons consists in keeping the part quiet on a splint, and painting it with tincture of iodine; if this does not afford speedy relief, a blister may be applied; under this treatment I have always seen this form of inflammation disappear in a few days. If the symp- toms are severe from the first, quiet of the part is the first requisite; this should be seconded by mercurial ointment and bladders of ice. This treatment should be persistently pursued; in these cases I de- cidedly prefer it to cataplasms and local warm batlis, which are veiy common. If absceses form, incisions and plenty of counter-ojienings should be made; in these cases drainage-tubes are very useful, because the granulations projecting from tlie openings often obstruct the escape of the pus. If the suppuration will not stop, it the spongy