HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 341 cases, think it is due to gross neglect, dirty dressings, etc., and regard it as little more than an ulcer of the leg that has superficially become' gangrenous fi'om dirt and neglect. Other surgeons suppose that hos- pital gangrene is, as the name would indicate, a disease peculiar to some hospitals, and that its occurrence is only promoted by neglect of the dressings. Lastly, a third view is that this form of gangrene is due to epidemic influences, and that its name is in so far incorrect as it occurs outside and inside of hospitals at the same time. In the hospitals it probably spreads by inoculation, for I do not doubt that matter can be carried from gangrenous to healthy wounds by forceps, charpie, sponges, etc., and there excite the disease. Vbfi Pitha and Fock have expressed the belief that it is an epidemic-miasmatic dis- ease. In the surgical clinic at Berlin with Fock I observed an epi- demic, while the disease was seen not only in other hospitals in Ber- lin, but in the city, in patients who could not be proved to have had any thing to do with a hospital. The disease appeared very suddenly, and entirely disappeared in a few months, although the treatment of the wounds had not been at all changed, nor could any changes be made in the hospital itself. This seems to show that the causes do not lie in the hospital itself. Epidemic hospital gangrene might oc- cur from certain small organisms, which are rarely developed, which, like a ferment, induce decomposition in the wound and granulating tissue ; hence I should preferably compare this disease of wounds with blue suppuration, which causes no injury to the wounds, but, according to Facke, like blue milk, is caused by small organisms and can infect other wounds. The requirements for the growth of these small bodies are probably particularly favored by certain atmospheric influences ; hence the disease spreads epidemically. There is no doubt that in the pulp of every hospital gangrene micrococci and streptococci are just as frequent as in the secretion of simple diph- theritic wounds. But it has not been proved that they were in the tissue before it was destroyed, that they grew in it, or broke it down into pulp ; nor has it been shown tliat this is a peculiar va- riety of micrococcus. But it is certain that the transfer of hospital gangrene pulp or putrid matter to healthy wounds usually (always, siccording to Fischer) induces hospital gangrene, and this is very important in practice. From my recent experience in the Vienna General Hospital, I am more and more convinced that this disease results from specific causes, entirely independent of pyajmia, septi- cmmia, erysipelas, and lymphangitis, although it may be followed by either of these diseases. The first point in the treatment is strict isolation of the patients, who should have special nurses, dressings, and instruments. If this