280 ACUTE NON-TKAUMATIC INFLAMMATION OF SOFT PARTS. tliciridcs "W0 niciy 6xcitc inflcininitition of fhc kidncySj by incrcury in* flammation of the oral mucous membrane and salivary glands, etc., ^vbethe^ we introduce them into the blood through the stomach, rec- tum, or skin. So also there is an endless number of known and unknown organic septic poisons, of which many, if not all, have also a specific phlogogenous action. I mention only one example : if you inject putrid fluid into the blood of a dog, in many cases, besides the direct blood intoxication, he will have enteritis, pleuritis, or pericar- ditis. Must we not here suppose that the injected fluid contains one or more matters which have a specific inflammatory effect on the intestinal mucous membrane, on the pleura and pericardium ? If we know the point of entrance of the poison, and have some experience of the poison itself, there will rarely be much doubt about the cause and action. But how many cases there may be where neither exists I I believe that infection is a much more frequent source of inflamma- tions, especially in surgery, than has hitherto been suspected. I would still make a few general remarks about the forms ana course of non-traumatic inflammations, I have already told you that the characteristic of traumatic inflammations is, that they are limited to the wounded part; if they become progressive, it is generally through mechanical or toxic (septic) irritation. This would imply that inflammations induced by mechanical irritations and toxic actions have a tendency to progress, or at least to difiPuseness; this is true of most inflammations resulting from catching cold, which attack either a whole organ or a large section of one part of the body. In this regard, much depends on the intensity of the mechanical irritation, and, in toxic inflammations, on the quality and quantity of the poison, especially on its more or less intense fermenting action on the fluids permeating the tissues. As regards inflammations due to repeated mechanical irritation and catching cold, we do not always have reason to suppose that their products are more irritating than those of simple traumatic inflammation ; but if, during the latter, the affected part be kept absolutely quiet, and the lymphatic vessels and interstices between the tissues are closed by the infiltration of the parts about the wound, the extension of the j>roducts of inflammation into the surrounding parts is much interfered with. But in repeated mechan- ical irritations the tissue is not kept at rest, and consequently the products of inflammation extend unimpeded around the irritated part, and excite new inflammation. In inflammation due to catching cold, according to my humoral view, tlie materia peceans is poured to a whole organ or tissue; hence, these inflammations are mostly diffuse