DECUBITUS. 329 weaker and weaker, and finally dies, without our being able to dis- cover in the cadaver any particular cause of death, although in other cases putrid metastatic abscesses are found in the lungs. These cases are one form of chronic septiesemia; I have no doubt that the repeated absorption of putrid matters, during the development of gangrene, by the blood and lymphatic circulation which partly continues, may be the cause of death. I propose to return to this question in the next section. After these general remarks, we must study more carefully the different varieties of gangrene, according to their remote and proxi- mate causes, and their practical importance: 1. Complete loss of vitality of the tissue through mechanical or chemical action, such as crushing, contusing, great heat or cold, caus- tic acids and alkalies, continued contact with ammoniacal urine, with carbunculous poison, poisons from certain serpents, putrid matters that act as ferments, etc., come under this head. We have already spoken of some of these varieties; we shall shortly come to others of them. 2. Complete arrest of the circulation, by circular compression or other mechanical cause, is in many cases the cause of capillary stasis and gangrene. For instance, if you surround a limb firmly with a bandage, you will have, first, venous congestion, then oedema, and finally, gangrene. Let us take a practical example: if the prepuce be too small and be forcibly drawn back over the glans so as to cause a paraphimosis, the compressed glans, or in this case more frequently the compressing ring, becomes gangrenous. The mortifi- cation of strangulated hernia depends on the same cause. Continued pressure also, by arresting the afflux and efflux of blood, may lead to gangrene, especially in persons inAvhom the heart’s action is weakened by long disease, or who by general septic intoxication are already disposed to gangrene. Decicbitus^ the so-called bed-sore, is such a gangrene caused by continued pressure, but all sorts of bed-sores are not gangrenous from the first, for in some cases they are rather to be compared to a gradual maceration of the epidermis and cutis, as a result of con- tinually lying in a bed wet with sweat, urine, and other liquids. De- cubitus is particularly frequent over the sacram, and may there attain a fearful size, all the soft parts becoming gangrenous down to the bone; it may also occur over the heel, the trochanters of the femur, head of the fibula, scapula, or spinous processes of the vertebra), ac- cording to the position of the patient. The same thing may be caused by badly-applied dressings. This disease is the more unpleasant, as it usually comes during other exhausting affections. Although no