NOMENCLATURE OF TUMORS. G03 Celsus occasionally designated tumors in general as “ struma,” but glandular tumors on the neck were more especially meant. The English term “ strumous ” what we call “ lymphatic, scrofulous.” The Germans confine the term “ struma ” to tumors of the thyroid gland. I have little to say about the external gross appearances of tumors. In most cases the growths are roundish nodules, more or less distin- guishable, by sight and feeling, from the surrounding parts. This is not alwaj^s accurate, however; tubercles also, at least in their smallest state, are bounded roundish bodies, which I should no more class among the growths than I should papules and pustules of the skin. In the skin also a distinctly-formed nodule may appear as a growth, just as an abscess may which also at first appears as a nodule. Still, as chronic inflammatory new formations on the surface also frequently appear in the form of P'>'oliferations (tufts), a growth forming on tke skin or mucous membrane may also assume the papillary form ; even the surface of a tumor, or a newly-formed cavity containing fluid or pulp, may produce papillary proliferations. So you see that growths and inflammatory neoplasia are not accurately distinguishable by their purely external anatomical conditions. There are a number of terms for different peculiarities of tumors, which are frequently used even now, although they do not always refer to any essential point. Thus, a tumor situated in a cavity, and attached by a pedicle, is called a polypus; so, we speak of nasal polypi, uterine polypi, etc., but must add the histological peculiarities (as fibrous, myxomatous, etc.). Growths that are ulcerated and pro- ject like a fungus are called spongy, or fungous. Formerly, if one wished to say that a tumor was very vascular, he used the word “ hre- matodes,” while to-day it is called “ telangiectatic,” or “ cavernous.” If a tumor was very firm or fibrous (not cartilaginous or bony) it was formerly called “ scirrhous,” which merely means “ firm,” and was applied to inflammatory new formations just as to cancer. A tumor was called medullary when it had the color and consistence of the brain, while its structure might be that of sarcoma, carcinoma, or lipoma. As tumors of this appearance are recognized as peculiarly malignant, the terms “medullary sarcoma,” “medullary carcinoma,’ have been applied to malignant tumors in general without regard to their structure. Some growths are colored—brown, yellowish, brownish black, bluish black; this pigmentation may be due to extravasations, or to specific cell-activi3^ Melanomata or mela- noses are rare, partly or entirely black or brownish-black tumors, with the structure of sarcoma or carcinoma, and usually of very bad firognosis. Formerly only these and similar terms, and comparisons