VARICOSE VEINS. 577 (Lecture XXIX.) how, by a further advance of this process, the tissue is more and more changed, and chronic inflammation and ulceration in- duced. In this way are developed not only ulcer- ations but also some other forms of chronic cuta- neous inflammations, especially a chronic eruption of vesicles, “ eczema ” of the leg. Now we must take up the question. What is the cause of varices ? It is probable that the cause is an obstruction to the return of the venous blood, a pressure, compression, or narrowing of the calibre of the vessel in some way. But the obstruction cannot be of sudden origin, for this usually causes oedema; the same is true of liga- tion of a large venous trunk and rapidly-appear- ing thromboses. The pressure'must then aflhct the vein gradually. Still, even this is not enough; often a gradually-increasing pressure does not cause varicose veins, but free collateral modes of escape form, so that there is no effect, or only a slight, indurated oedema. There must be a coin- cident tendency to dilatation of the vessels, a cer- tain laxity or distensibility of the walls of the veins.^^ Anatomical examination of varicose veins shows that the ■walls are absolutely thickened by leposits of connective tissue between the muscle- cells, but the latter do not seem increased, and, as the calibre of the vessel is six or eight times the normal size, they must prove insufficient to urge the blood onward, the more so as the valves do not grow as the dilatation goes on, and consequently soon prove in- sufficient. Up to the present time we have had no detailed histological investigations about the formation of varices, and especially about the relation of this disease to aneurism. In many cases the dispo- sition to varices may be regarded as individual, in others it is in- herited ; diseases of the vessels are not unfrequently hereditary, those of the arteries, as well as of the veins and of the capillaries, by whose morbid dilatation the so-called mother’s marks are caused, whose transmission by inheritance is known even to the laity. Hence, we can only regard the cause of varices, -which we are about to mention, as exciting causes acting on an existing predisposition. The disease is more frequent in women than in men ; the chief cause is said to bo repeated pregnancies: the uterus, gradually enlarging, presses on the common iliac veins, and later on the vena cava, and occasionally this Fig. 113. Varices in the part sup- plied hy the great sa- phena vein.