PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. 289 lace form fibrine, and thus become a membrane clinging to the surface, which after a time dissolves into mucus and pus, or is lifted up by pus which is produced behind it from the mucous membrane, we call it a “ croupous inflammation ; ” the mucous membrane and its epithe- lium meantime remain intact, the parts are perfectly restored. Diph- theria is exactly similar to the above process, but the fibrinous layer is not only attached more firmly to the tissue, but the serum per- meating the substance of the membrane eoagulates; the circulation is thus impaired so much that occasionally the aflPected part becomes en- tirely gangrenous. In diphtheria, the disintegration and gangrene are prominent symptoms; they probably depend on very rapid devel- opment of germs of fungi and infusoria in the diphtheritic membrane. Whether these fungous germs are, as many suppose, the cause of diphtheria, at present remains doubtful. The general affection, the fever, may be very severe in extensive croupous inflammation (as in the fine bronchi and alveoli of the lungs, croupous pneumonia), but in diphtheria it is of a more septic character; the latter disease is far the most malignant. The mucous membrane of the pharynx and trachea is often exposed to both forms of the disease. Catarrhal con- junctivitis, whhih is so very common, may become diphtheritic, but rarely becomes icroupous. The mucous membrane of the intestinal canal is seldom the seat of these diseases, the same is true of the mu- cous membrane of the genitals, which are so often affected with con- tagious blennorrhcea (clap, gonorrhoea). 3. ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. PlILEOMONOUS INFLAMMATION. This term is ifieonastic, for 77 (pleyiLOvr] means inflammation, but practically it is so exclusively applied to inflammation of the cel- lular tissue tending to suppuration, that eveiy surgeon knows what it means; another name for the same disease is pseiido-eri/s^ye- las ; it is just as much used, but seems to me less distinctive. The causes of this inflammation are in many cases very obscure ; a severe cold can rarely be proved to be the cause; frequently these in- flammations might result from infection, even if the cutis be unin- jured, but this is only hypothesis; we have already seen these pro- gressive acute inflammations as a complication in injuries, especially as a result of local infection from mortifying shreds of tissue in con- tusions and contused wounds. Spontaneous inflammation of the cel- lular tissue is most frequent in the extremities, more frequent above than below the fascim, especially prone to affect the fingers and hand • here it is called panaritium (corrupted from paronychia, inflammation around the nail, from ovv^ nail), and to distinguish it from deeper