157 HEALING OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. there are considerable difTerences. One very important circumstance is, that in contused wounds tlie nutrition of the edges of the skin and soft parts is more or less extensively destroyed or impaired, or, to ex- press this more anatomically, the circulation and nerve influence in the borders of contused wounds are more or less lost. Tins at once pre- vents the possibility of healing by first intention, as this requires per- fect vitality in the surfaces of the wound. Hence contused wounds always heal with suppuration. This observation causes us to introduce sutures or try firm union by plasters very rarely; you may consider this as a general rule. There are exceptions to this rule, which you will only learn exactly in the clinic, and of which I shall only incidentally remark, that occasionally we fasten large, loose flaps of skin in their original position, not be- cause we expect them to unite by first intention, but that they may not from the first retract too much and atrophy to too great an ex- tent. Granulation and suppuration are esentially the same as in wounds with loss of substance, except that they are slower, and we might say more uncertain at many places. In incised wounds with loss of sub- stance also a thin superficial layer of tissue is occasionally lost, if it be not very well nourished; but this is insignificant as compared with the extensive loss of tissue-shreds that occurs in contused wounds. Many days, often for weeks, tags of dead {necrosed) skin, fascia, and tendons, hang to the edges of the wounds, while other parts are luxuriantly granulating. This process of detachment of the dead from the living tissue takes place as follows: A cell infiltration and formation of vessels, lead- ing to development of granulations, start from the borders of the new tissue; granulations form on the border of the healthy tissue, and their surface breaks down into pus. With this change to the fluid state as it were the solution and melting of the tissue, of course the cohe- sion of the parts must cease, and the dead shreds, which previously were in continuity with the living tissue by their filamentary connec- tion, must now fall. Hence part of the surface of contused wounds almost always be- comes necrosed (from ve/cpof, dead), gangrenous (iVom r] ydyypaLva from ypaivG)^ I consume), which are both expressions for parts in which circulation and innervation have ceased, or which are entirely dead. The part where the detachment takes place is technically called the line of demarcation of the gangrene. These technical terms, which refer to every variety of gangrene, no matter how it occxirs, you must only notice provisionally here. I will try to render this process of detachment of necrosed tissue by suppuration more distinct by means of a diagram. 12