469 PKOCESS OF CURE IN CARIES. be detached and throwoi off, then by a rich development of vessels, a vigorous new formation must form from the walls of the defect, and when there has been a large excavation or abscess in the bone the entire cavity must be filled with granulations before recovery is pos- sible—for a perfect cure these granulations must cicatrize and ossify, and to a certain extent the torpid ulcer in the bone must become pro- liferating—or else granulations arising from the healthy bone behind the diseased, necrosed portion dissolve the latter; at the same time the torpid process becomes proliferating, and thus leads to cicatriza- tion. The defects in bones, for example, in the centre of a hollow bone, cannot decrease by contraction, which so much curtails healing in the soft parts, but must be entirely filled up by new tissue. This is the point that so often prevents recovery in caries, for the constitutional conditions at the root of the torpid form of caries are often so serious that it is not only difficult to arrest the advance of the ulceration, but is just as difficult to induce active new formation in the seat of disease. If we actually succeed in arresting the process of ulceration, fistulm not unfrequently remain and continue for years, or never heal. Never- theless, when the disease remains stationary, the fistulae in the bone rarely do much harm. If you have a chance to examine such fistulas anatomically in macerated bones, you will find that the holes leading into the bone are lined by an unusually thick, sclerosed layer of bone, just like old fistulm of the soft parts, whose walls consist of a hard cicatricial substance. We have still to speak of the process of cure of chronic cold abscesses in certain diseases; usually, if not opened, these do not heal till the bonq-disease is on the way to recovery. Then, if the cavity of the abscess be lined with vigorous granulations, as is rarely the case, the walls may unite immediately; but more fre- quently, when such an abscess ceases to increase, it is first contracted by shrinkage of its inner walls, and is thus gradually closed. For this to occur it is requisite that the process of destruction should have ceased on the inner wall, and that the tissue should be suf- ficiently vascular. If a cold abscess do not open, but remain subcu- taneous, while the bone-disease recovers, most frequently a large jDart of the pus, whose cells disintegrate into fine molecules, is absorbed, while the inner walls of the abscess change to a cicatricial tissue, which, in the shape of a fibrous sac, contains thepuriform fluids. Such pus-sacs often remain in this stage for years ; unfortunately, complete reabsorption, or absorption to such an extent as to leave only a cheesy pulp, is much rarer than might be desired, and than is usually sup- posed. In the prognosis of a case of caries, we have first to consider sepa- rately the fate awaitir g the diseased bone, and the state of the gen-