CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PAIJTS. 428 the entire organism is infected at once ; a series of chronic inflamma- tions occur in the most varied organs, which have at first a more pro- ductive character, but soon lead to disintegratimi of the infiltrated tissue and assume an ulcerative destructive character. The following symptoms may appear in syphilis: eruptions on the skin of blotches, papules, desquamations, and nodules; ulcers in the fauces, on the lips and tongue, and about the anus ; osteoplastic and ulcerative periosti- tis and ostitis, especially on the tibia, cranial bones, sternum, etc. ; chronic inflammations of tlie greatest variety, usually with caseous degeneration in the testicles, liver, brain, and possibly in the lungs. The nodular circumscribed product of syphilis is called by Virchow “ gummy tumor,” by E. Wagner “ syphiloma.” Syphilis may also be inherited ; children are born with it ; the dyscrasia may be car- ried by the sperm to the ovum, or be in the ovum. It is still dis- puted whether a healthy woman who has been impregnated by a healthy man, and has become syphilitic during pregnancy, can con- vey the disease to the foetus, and whether a foetus begotten by a syphilitic man who has no ulcer on the penis can infect the healthy mother. It is also disputed by some that the venereal poison can pass through the placenta. Gonorrhoea and the soft chancre are local diseases, and are to be treated as such. Formerly soft and indurated chancres were regarded as two forms of syphilis, with many connecting links ; of late tlie dualistic theory seems to gain more and more supporters, although there is still much discussion on the subject. Man}’ surgeons con- sider mercury as a specific, or as a sort of antidote, in syphilitic dys- crasia. It seems to me proved by recent observations that this is not exactly true. Constitutional syphilis, which only attacks a person once, may in the course of time be to some extent gotten rid of by the change of tissue ; hence all remedies that greatly promote the change of tissue are in a certain sense antisyphilitic. Most frequent- ly treatment by sweating or purging is resorted to ; occasionally syphilis is cured by a treatment of six weeks ; in some cases these modes of treatment must be continued with interruptions till tliey prove successful, and, finally, some cases are entirely incurable. Oc- casionally mercury, by inunction or internally, in A'^arious preparations, continued a long time, removes the symptoms of syphilis with sur- prising rapidity; and hence, in cases where we desire to arrest as quickly as possible certain ulcerative forms, especially in the bones, it will maintain its value. Of late it has been much doubted if mer- cury alone can cure syphilis, and at the same time it has been shown what injury may be induced by continueel use of mercurials, by a sort of chronic mercurial poisoning (hydrargyrosis). The mercurialists