314 ACUTE INFLAA1MATI0N3 OF THE BONES, PERIOSTEUM, ETC. internal medicine, is characterized by its attacking several joints at once, and its tendency to cause inflammations of other serous mem- branes, such as the pericardium and endocardium, the pleura, and rarely the peritonaeum and arachnoid. This simultaneous disease of these membranes and of the joints marks the affection as one impli- cating the whole body from the start; indeed, from the importance of the organ affected, the pericarditis and endocarditis are often so prominent, and so much influence the treatment, that the surgical treatment of the joints is a very secondary matter; this is the more apt to be the case, as this disease, although very painful, rarely proves dangerous to the limb or to life. The chief symptoms of the local affection, beyond which the disease rarely proceeds, are, great pain in the joint on every motion or touch, oedema of the surrounding soft parts, and rarely redness of the skin. From the few autojDsies that have been made, it appears that the synovia increases somewhat, is sometimes mixed with flocculi of pus, and the synovial membrane is swollen and red; the cartilage is seldom implicated ; the collection of fluid is not often so great as to cause fluctuation. Acute rheuma- tism is very frequent, but it is rarely fatal, so that the pathological anatomical a23pearances are little known. From all the symptoms of this disease, it is evidently a specific, limited disease, of a iDeculiar character, but with a course so atypical, and causes so obscure, that its actual character has not yet been determined. I have my doubts whether, besides this ‘polyarticular^ we can speak of a monarticular acute rheumatism^ for it is just the multiplicity of the points of inflammation, and their slight tendency to supiiurate, that charac- terize the disease ; at all events, I should not consider an inflammation limited to one joint as a symiDtom of acute rheumatism, unless pleu- risy, pericarditis, or some other conqflication peculiar to rheumatism, also occurred ; should none of these come on, the disease is purely lociil, a simple inflammation of the joint, which is jjrobably called rheumatic simply because it is sujjposed to be due to catching cold. In acute rheumatism, the resolution of the articular inflammation and the res- toration of the joint to its functions are so common that we rarely see any other termination. That the disease is tedious, and generally’' lasts six or eierht weeks, is not so much due to the duration of the affection in a single joint as to its attacking first one joint, then an- other, and exacerbations readily occurring in joints that had recov- ered; thus the disease proves tedious, both for jjhysician and patient, and the greatest watchfulness and care are necessary to avoid all sources of injury that may again arouse the disease. It is exceedingly rare for one of the affected joints to go on to intense sup|mration or empyema; mure frequently, in sjiite of the subsidence of the disease,