ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. 607 able that cellular elements from the focus of inflammation iiassed into the lymphatic glands, and, by their specific phlogogenous action, in- duced inflammation in the glands, which were analogous to the primary peripheral inflammations ; tumors never develop through such local infections from inflammatory foci; if the primary inflammatory focus be removed, the swellings of the lymphatic glands also disappear. Similar infectious peculiarities also occur in many tumors, especially those which, like the inflammatory neoplasia, are very rich in cells; not only may the immediate vicinity be infected, and numerous new foci be formed immediately around the first nodule, but very often the lymphatic glands are also affected, and secondary tumors form in them, which have the same peculiarities as the primary; nor are they anj' more apt to disappear spontaneously than the primarj", even when the latter is removed; on the contrary, similar tumors then frequently appear in other quite remote parts of the body—metastatic tumors. Here you again have the analogy with the course of infection in in- flammation, as well as the specific distinction, for metastatic growths never result from jahlogistic infection, any more than metastatic ab- scesses in internal organs do from infection by a tumor. Infection is not common to all tumors, although, unfortunately, the majority are infectious; these are called malignant^ in contradistinction to the benign^ or non-infections. It is difficult to say on what this difference is based ; it is probably partly due to the nature and specific charac- ter of the element, in their easy mobility, and in the fact that, like the seed of some of the lower plants, they find almost everywhere soil suited for their development, and can grow in most tissues of the body ; probably it is also partly due to the fact that the conditions are more or less favorable to the entrance of the elements of the tumor into the lymph or blood-vessels ; for instance, it is remarkable that frequently very soft tumors (medullary sarcoma) consisting almost entirely of cells, when surrounded by a firm connective-tissue capsule, cause no infection of the lymphatic glands ; we notice the same thing in some large encapsulated abscesses. In regard to metastatic ab- scesses, I have already told you that, according to my view, they are due to embolism ; we should have to seek another explanation of diffuse metastatic inflammations. Diffuse metastatic tumors are very rare; I should apply tliis term only to a few forms of pleural and peritoneal carcinoma or sarcoma. As regards the mode of origin of metastatic tumors, the actual course of the infection, from analogy, it seems very probable that they, like the secondary tumors of the lym- phatic glands, arc induced by seed from the primary tumors, or from the tumors in tlie lymphatic glands. I acknowledge I am much in- clined to this supposition. Although I could not formerly believe that