89 SURGICAL FEVER. walking. Hence, there are many things to which we must attend, if we would avoid error. However, we may avoid these mistakes, and for centuries the frequency of the pulse has been used as a measure of fever. Examination of the pulse also shows other things important to be known: the amount of the blood, tension of the arteries, irregu- larity of the heart-beat, etc.; and it should not be neglected even now that we have other modes of measurement of the fever. This other, and in some respects certainly better, mode of measuring the amount and duration of the fever is determination of the bodily temperature with carefully-prepared thermometers, whose scales are divided, accord- ing to Celsius, in one hundred degrees, and each degree in ten parts. The introduction of this mode of measurement into practice is due to Von Bdremprung, Traube, and Wicnderlich / it has the advantage of graphically presenting the measurements, which are usually made at 9 A. M. and 5 p. m., as cimves, and making them at once easily read. A series of observations of fever in the normal course of wounds shows the following points: traumatic fever occasionally begins imme- diately after an injury, more frequently not till the second, third, or fourth day. The highest temperature attained, although rarely, is 104.5° F.-105.5°; as a rule it does not rise much above 102°-103°. Simple traumatic fever does not usually last over a week; in most cases it only continues from two to five days; in many cases it is en- tirely absent, as in most of the small superficial incised wounds of which we spoke above. Traumatic fever depends entirely on the state of the wound; it is generally of a remitting type; the decline may take place rapidly or slowly. From these observations we should naturally suppose the fever would be the higher the more severe the injury. If the injury be too insignificant, there is either no fever or the increase of temperature is so slight and evanescent as to escape our modes of measurement. It has been thought that a scale of injuries might be constructed, according to ^vhich the fever would last a longer or shorter time, and be more cr less intense, in proportion to the length and breadth of the wound. This conclusion is only approximately correct, after making veiy considerable limitations. Some persons become feverish after A^ery slight injuries; others do not, even after severe ones. The cause of this difl’erence in the occurrence of traumatic fever depends partly on whether the wound heals with more or less inflammatory symptoms, partly on unknown influences. We cannot avoid the supposition that purely individual circumstances have some influence : we see that, from similar injuries, one person will be more disposed to fever than an- other. Before going on to examine how the state of the wound is related