SIMPLE INCISED WOUNDS OF THE SOFT PARTS. 40 stick, till the fibrine is separated. While this is being done, the most perceptible subcutaneous vein at the bend of the elbow of the patient is to be exposed by an incision through the skin; then two silk threads are to be passed under it, the lower one is drawn on without closing it, so that no blood may escape by the subsequent fine oblique incision made in the vein by the scissors. The canula is passed up into the now gaping opening in the vein, and the upper thread is crossed over it without being tied ; some blood should escape through the canula, so as to fill it and drive out the air. Meanwhile, the as- sistant has completed the venesection and filtered the whipped blood through a fine cloth; then the previously-warmed syringe is to be filled with the blood,inverted and the air forced out, placed firmljr in the canula, and the blood injected very slowly. Experience has taught that it is not advisable to inject more than four to eight ounces of blood, and that this is enough to recall life. We should never empty the syringe entirely, and cease at once if the jDatient has dyspnoea. MHien the injection is completed, we remove the ligatures and canula, and treat the wound as after venesection. There has been much dis- pute, as to whether or not it is necessary to remove the fibrine from the blood to be injected. PanmrCs experiments have clearly proved that fibrine is not necessary in resuscitation by transfusion, and that, even with the greatest care, it may act injuriously by clotting. The active element in this operation appears to be the introduction of blood-cor- puscles as bearers of oxygen. Possibl}’’, transfusion has a still vdder future; at all events, it might be worth while to try it in excessive anfemia, resulting from other, sometimes unknown, causes, even al- though, according to Panuni's excellent observations, the blood itself does not nourish, but is only the bearer and forwarder of nourish- ment. The experiments made by Neudorfer, during the last Italian War, on the wounded who had become ancBinicfrom profuse suppura- tion, had no brilliant results, it is true, but further trials should be made of this operation, which with proper care is not dangerous. Hueter has studied transfusion most thoroughly of late ; he rec- ommends injecting beaten and filtered venous blood into an artery (such as the radial or posterior tibial) in a peripheral direction, just as was once done by Von Graefe. As Hueter has demonstrated that this arterial transfusion is easier than the venous, it deserves the preference, because by it we avoid the danger of pulmonary emboli. No abnormal svmploms occurred where Hueter operated on the hands and feet ; but I doubt if it would often be possible to introduce a canula into these small arteries in a patient bleeding to death ; in such a case we should have to choose the brachial artery. The enormous increase of bodily temperature, the occurrence of