335 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. induced by tlie long illness, -wliicb proves insufficient to carry the blood to the remote parts of the body with sufficient energy ; accord- ing to this view, this gangrene would be due to marasmic capillary thrombosis. Doubtless various circumstances act more or less promi- nently in individual cases, so that no definite etiology can be given for these rare forms of gangrene from internal causes. I may also mention that stomatitis, from excessive use of mereury, also has a great tendency to gangrene. We shall hereafter speak of a peculiar form of gangrene of wounds, the so-called hospital gav.grene.^'' There are certain important prophylactic rules for the prevention of gangrene, especially of decubitus and other forms due to pressure; even gangrene from inflammation may sometimes be prevented, by re- lieving the great tension of the tissue and the venous congestion by an incision made at the proper time. Be constantly on your guard against bed-sores in all diseases at all disposed to decubitus; turn your attention to this point early: a well-stuffed horse-hair mattress is the best sick-bed; the sheets placed over it should alwaj^s be kept smooth, so that the patient shall not lie on wrinkles. As soon as any redness appears over the sacrum, you should be doubly careful about the passages of urine and fseces, so that the bed may not be wet. Let a lemon be cut and the reddened spot rubbed daily with the fresh juice from the cut surface. If there be excoriation over the sacrum, place the patient on a ring cushion, or, if possible, on a caoutchouc, air, or water cushion. The excoriation may be painted with nitrate of silver, or covered with leather spread with lead-plaster. If the decubitus be gangrenous from the first, and this begins to extend, we should resort to the ordinary treatment of gangrene, of which we shall speak pres- ently. Tlie local treatment of gangrene has two chief objects : 1. To pro- mote detachment of the gangrenous parts by exciting active suppura- tion, which is accompanied by arrest of the gangrene; 2. To prevent the gangrenous parts decomposing, and thus acting injuriously on the patient, and infecting the chamber too much. For the first indication, moist warmth in the form of cataplasms was formerly employed. But I cannot find that they ai-e peculiarlv efficacious in these cases. If the gangrene be moist and the gangre- nous parts are much inclined to decompose, this would only be favored by tlie application of cataplasms; for the detachment of a dry eschar, which does not smell badly, and when the line of demarcation is al- ready formed, it is hardly worth while to hasten the proeess a little by warmth. Hence I prefer covering the gangrenous parts and the