746 APPENDIX. that inflammation of the walls oc the veins may cause thrombosis (even without leading to abscess in their walls) ; but further inves- tigations in this direction are desirable. Clinical observations also speak in favor of such a course ; for it has been proved that peri- phlebitis (analogous to perilymphangitis) often precedes phlebitis and thi’ombosis. 19.—P. 361. Then you will also be told how to distinguish small lobular infil- trations of the lump, such as occur in purulent bronchitis, from me- tastatic abscesses. I will merely mention here that where a venous thrombus opens into the wound, it may remain firmly organized while its upper part suppurates, breaks down, and is finally swept into the circulation by the neighboring branches in which the blood circulates; this is the only case where pus from the veins enters the circulation without there having been htemorrhage. After death we recognize this process by finding fluid blood or fresh post-mortem clots in the thickened veins, whose inner walls are rough from ad- herent layers of the thrombus ; if there has been periphlebitis, and the portion of vein has suppurated, we cannot decide Avith absolute certainty that there has been a previous suppuration of the thrombus. 20.—P. 372. The severest cases are those where toward the middle or end of the second day great cyanosis and collapse come on rapidly; then death usually occurs in a few hours. Such patients look like those in the algid stage of cholera, only in septicremia vomiting and per- sistent diarrhoea are rare; after getting along Avell perhaps for twenty-four hours after the operation, the patients seem as if poi- soned. In these cases (which may be accompanied by diphtheria) the secretion from the Avound does not always smell disagreeably. It cannot be shown that the intoxicating matter in these cases is different from usual, or that the inflammatory alteration of tissues causes a remarkable amount of poisonous product. According to the above, the variety of symptoms in septicaemia is considerable; but this proves nothing against the claim that the septic poison is ahA-ays the same, for there is tlie same diflerence from cholera, carl)uncle, diphtheria, and bites of serpents, in Avhich cases Ave do not nssumo dif- ferent natures, but only differences of intensity and in the quantity of poison absorbed, and difference of resisting poAver in the iiatieuts.