416 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE SOFT PARTS. sooner or later subsides entirely, and the parts become perfectly nor- mal. The course with suppuration is the most frequent, and accord- ing to the special nature of the case this may be quite acute, as it is in inflammation of the submaxillary glands and in inflammations of the joints. Often the^disease remains chronic for years; abscesse.s, fistulie, ulcers, etc., form. Early suppuration occurs, especially in somewhat emaciated, debilitated, badly-nourished children, wdio are very liable to fever [erethitic scrofula), and its prognosis is very bad. The termination of the inflammation in caseous degeneration is not rare ; it is particularly frequent in the lymphatic glands ; of course it must have a very bad effect on the general nutrition, when the mesen- teric glands are degenerated in this way, and the chyle-ducts thus mostly obstructed ; incurable atrophy of the entire body may thus be induced. The lymphatic diathesis is in most cases congenital, and is transmitted from generation to generation ; but it may also be devel- oped by improper modes of life. Among the most injurious causes are given : chief or exclusive diet of potatoes. Hour, or sour bread; unhealthy, damp dwellings ; lack of cleanliness, fresh air, etc. It is indeed difficult to prove if all this be correct ; at all events, if the above causes always induced scrofula, it would be much more frequent than it now is among the poor. To state in a few words what is at present understood by a lymphat- ic constitution or scrofula, it may be considered—1, as a disposition to chronic inflammation of the skin, bones, and joints, in which the inflammation may lead to development of granulations, of pus, and to caseous degeneration; 2, as existing when swellings of the lym- phatic glands, even when induced by temporary irritation, continue long in the same state, or even increase without new peripheral irri- tation. AVe shall here pass at once to the treatment of scrofula in general. First of all, the diet should be regulated ; good animal food, eggs, and milk, well-baked wheaten bread, occasional baths, residence in fresh, healthy air, a hardening mode of life, are the most important reme- dies, but from the circumstances they are often the most difficult to employ; in prescribing the diet, special attention must often be paid to the individual case, especially as to whether there is a tendency to lardaceous disease or atrophy, whether the digestive organs are nor- mal, or were ruined in youth by improper diet. As the disease is very common among the poor (without the rich being free from it, however), these dietetic and hygienic rules are jjarticularly difficult to follow. The number of internal anti-scrofulous remedies is very gretit; the object is not, as was formerly supposed, to introduce a specific remedy as an antidote to some unknown poison circulating in the