513 TUMOR ALBUS. Already been said will suffice to explain to you any given case. It is not impossible to group the different modifications of the above pro- cesses in classes and to analyze them separately; but this seems to me of no practical value, for these forms offer at present no special etiological, prognostic, or therapeutic features. If you correctly un- derstand the anatomical course and recall my description in all cases that you see living or dead, in resected or amputated limbs, you will soon understand the disease and require no further classification of its symptoms. About the causes of chronic fungous articular inflammation there is little to say beyond what you already know. The scrofulous diath- esis especially predisposes to it; acute, spontaneous, or traumatic (whether from wounds, contusions, or sprains) inflammations of the joint occasionally become chronic. Scrofulous children, three years old and upward, are especially inclined to these joint-diseases; a fall or twisting of the joint often proves an exciting cause. Cases occur where we can find no local or general cause for the disease. In Swit- zerland I have very often seen atonic forms of fungous purulent in- flammations of the joint in old people, where no cause for them could be discovered. The course of this disease is very varied, but it is always chronic, lasting for months, usually for years; often interrupted by pauses and improvement, then again exacerbating. The disease may halt, and recover at any stage; in the first stages this recovery may be per- fect, that is, the joint may remain entirely movable; or it may be im- perfect, that is, more or less stiffness of the joint is left. Before the cartilage has commenced to proliferate, or has its under surface dis- turbed by any neoplastic tissue growing from the bone, tliere is a possibility of tolerably good motion being restored—which, however, may be impaired by cicatricial contraction of the fungous synovial membrane, and of the infiltrated ligaments, as well as by secondary contractions of the muscles. If the cartilage be partly or entirely destroyed, and caries has occurred gradually or with the onset of the tlisease, it may recover with anchylosis, the cartilage is not restored; the granulations of the adjacent surfaces of cartilage gradually uni'te, and often firm adhesions form, which may even ossify. Whether the disease goes on so far or the destruction of the joint continues to progress, depends greatly on the constitution of the patient; treatment may be of great bene/it, if begun early. The extent to which the muscles sympathize varies greatly ; according to my experience, the highest grade of muscular atrophy occurs in those cases where there is no suppuration of the joints but caries sicca, and where the joint- disease seems to proceed from ostitis.