178 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS OP THE SOFT PARTS. Nor is an elevated position of the injured part to be neglected where it can be tried. You may readily prove on yourselves that gravity has something to do with the movement of the blood; if you let your arm hang perfectly relaxed for live minutes, you will feel a heaviness in the hand, and the veins on the back of tlie hand will look swollen; if, cn tlie contraiy, you elevate the hand for a time, it will become whiter and smaller. While debilitated persons are lying in bed, in the morn- ing, for instance, their faces look fuller than when they have borne the head erect for the day. Recently, Volkmann has strongly recom- mended vertical suspension of the arm as a powerful antiphlogistic in inflammations of the hand; consequently, I have employed this method, and in cases of cutaneous inflammations have found it very efficacious; it appears to do less good in deep inflammations, as of the vmst. Hereafter, the water-bath, ice-treatment, and cataplasms, will prob- ably give place to the oi^en treatment of wounds, from which I have seen very good results in contused as well as in incised wounds (p. 95). I did not say this at the commencement of the section, because I do not consider my experience of this mode of treatment sufficiently ex- tensive for me to give a final judgment. The dreaded access of air to the surface of the wound, even the air of badly-ventilated hospitals, is not, in my opinion, so injui-ious as di’essings and sponges of doubt- ful cleanliness; the idea that air is injurious to suppurating wounds rests chiefly on the observation that the entrance of air to abscess cavities with rigid walls, and into serous sacs, usually induces sup- jDuration; apart from the fact that, in many of these cases, it is not proved that it is indeed the entrance of air which excites the inflam mation, we must also attribute much of the blame to the fact that in the pus-sacs the air is warmed and impregnated with watery vapor from the pus; this enclosed air now becomes a true hatching-place for those minute organisms which cause decomposition, and which are always more or less present in the atmosphere. Every observing housekeeper knows that meat or game hanging in the open air spoils far less readily than when shut up in a cupboard, even when the air in the latter is kept cool by ice. Free air does no harm to the wound, imprisoned air is very dangerous. I have already mentioned (p. 96), that a wound treated openly the start has no bad smell, unless large shreds of tissue on- it become gangrenous ; in accordance with this also, flies do not deposit their eggs in open wounds, while they are apt to creep into dressings to do so ; I must say these observa- tions surprised me very agreeably, because T feared that flies would render the open treatment of wounds impossible in summer. The longer I carefully try the open treatment of wounds, the more it sat-