ULCERS. 430 On the mucous membrane the process is the same: at first there is a lively emigration of young cells on the surface; this is soon ac- comjjaniecl by a moderate degree of serous and plastic infiltration in the connective tissue of the mucous membrane; the mucous glands secrete plentifully. As already stated, it was believed, until within a short time, that catarrhal pus was of a purely epithelial character; now there is rather an inclination to the view that the elements of catarrhal secretion also are wandering white blood-corpuscles. Con- tinued irritation of a mucous membrane affected ^vith catarrh is followed by softening and breaking down of the tissue, as we de- scribed to be the case in the cutis; then we have a catarrhal ulcer. There is another and more acute mode of formation of ulcers, viz.: from pustules that do not heal, but which enlarge after evacuation of the pus, and keep up an acute inflammatory character, as the soft chancrous ulcer. And such ulcers resulting from ecthyma pustules, without any preceptible s]3ecific dyscrasia, are particularly frequent on the legs of young, full-blooded, and otherwise healthy persons; we know nothing definite about their causes ; they often have a prolifera- ting fungous form, but at other times induce rapid destruction of tis- sue. But this acute commencement of ulcers is much rarer than the chronic. Some diseases are only half-correctly called ulcers, as the “ tj^phous ulcer; ” in typhoid fever there is an acute progressive in- flammation of Peyer’s plaques, which in many cases ends in gangrene, with necrosis of the inflamed portion of mucous membrane; what re- mains after throwing off of the slough is a granulating surface, Avhich usually cicatrizes rapidly; strictly speaking, this granulating surface is not an ulcer, it only becomes so when it does not heal normall3^ Of this, more hereafter; we may use these expressions more freely, when we understand the process perfectly. From this description you see that, in ulceration as in iujlamma- tion,, two opposite processes are combined—nevv-formation and de- struction; the latter results from liquefaction of the tissues, i. c., ' tlirough suppuration, or molecular disintegration, or both together. There can be no doubt of the antagonistic relations of new formation and destruction to each other in the examples adduced, for it is evi- dent that there the former preceded the latter. But you may also imagine that in a previously healthy portion of skin there might be a disturbance of nutrition of such a nature that disintegration of tis- sue is the first step, as you have already learned from the section on gangrene. Then on the border of the healthy portion of skin, whicli retains its vitality, there is a new formation of ^mung cells, and, if the parts adjacent to the primarily necrosed spot be healthy, there must result a granulation surface; but, if the parts be not healthv, ana have