575 CONTRACTED MUSCLES. which first one, then another, muscle is methodically electrified; this may be continued half or three-quarters of an hour, but not too long, for fear of destroying the weak nervous activity by too great irrita- tion. Mucli harm might be done by excessive electrization ; a physi- cian should always conduct the treatment, and give very positive di rections about the duration of the sitting, and strength of the current. Usually we very soon see how much the muscles contract to the elec- trical irritation when they perhaps, cannot be moved spontaneously; we should not give up even if we do not obtain any twitchings at the first sitting; occasionally these only appear after a time, when the electricity has had some effect. Of late, Harwell has successfully employed a very ingenious meth- od for removing contractions; he makes continued traction in the direction in which the muscles fail to act; for instance, in club-foot, a stout india-rubber band is fastened to the outer border of the foot, and the inner side of the tibia close below the knee; this acts contin- uously as an “ artificial muscle.” This seems to me rational, and it should be tried extensively. I have used this method in several cases, with very quick result; LiXeke and Volhmann have also stated recently that they have attained good results by this treatment. In pareses, movement of a few muscles occasionally suffices to enable the patient to walk, if a certain firmness which the muscles fail to supply is given to the limb by some sort of a splint. These splints are not always to be regarded as a last resort, but they may aid the treatment by enabling the patient to walk alone with the aid of sticks. But the movements of walking, made by the paretic muscles, have au excellent gymnastic effect; although artificially supported, the patient in this way uses his muscles, while, if he were continually lying or sit- ting, the muscles would remain entirel}’' inactive, and atrophy more and more. Machines are also serviceable in keeping the legs ex- tended and the feet at the proper angle, thus preventing contractions. Gymnastics, electricity, artificial muscles, and splint apparatuses, combined with proper internal treatment, especially suitable water- cure, may do a great deal for these patients ; and, although many of them are incurable, some are curable, and others may be greatly im- proved.