396 TRAUMATIC AND INFLAMMATORY DISEASES, ETC. diminish the predisposition. Should lymphangitis begin, the arm should first of all be placed on a splint to keep it quiet, and then the treatment previously recommended for lymphangitis instituted. You may consider the course in the appearance of the above morbid symp- toms to be as follows : A small quantity of liquid from the cadaver (or even of putrid pus from a living patient) is introduced into the wound ; the lymphatic ca|dllaries that have been opened take up this putrid matter and pass it into the trunks of the lymphatic vessels ; coagulation may quickly take place here, and then the putrid matter acts as a specific irritant only on a small part; in other cases it acts on the lymph as a ferment, and the lymph coagulates in the next lymphatic glands, or else the swelling of the gland compresses the intra-glandular lymphatic vessels and so obstructs the passage through the gland ; in this case also the disease remains local, al- though extending some distance, and not unfrequentlj’' leading to sup|Juration with fever (as in other non-specific inflammations). Lastly, the rarest cases: the fermented lymph, which even yet acts as a ferment, passes into the blood, and there excites chemical changes. Then we have a septicmmia^ from cadaveric poison. From the cases that end in recovery we see that the injurious substances developed by the process may be again eliminated from the body by the secretions and excretions, but we do not know in what particu- lar way this is done. In some cases some putrid substance is encap- sidated in a lymphatic gland or other inflamed part, and may there lie harmless and after a time be gradually eliminated; but on active movement the poison may be again driven into the lymphatic vessels by the increased pressure of the blood, and there induce new, acute, local, and general infection. If indurated lymphatic glands remain after infection with cadaveric poison, daily warm baths are the best means for promoting the excretion of the poison. We have still to treat of some poisons which in certain diseases develop m animals, and may thence be transferred to man. Under this head come glanders^ carbuncle^ and hydrophobia. Glanders (maliasmus, morve) is a disease Avhich develops prima- rily in horses and asses. It is an inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, in Avhich this membrane becomes very thick, and secretes a thick, tough pus, and where, by the breaking down of caseous nod- ules, ulcers with a caseous base form; swellings of the lymphatic glands, occasionally tubercle-like nodules in the lungs, and acute ma- rasmus, occur, and acute cases are usually fatal. The more chronic and milder form of glanders is called “ farcy ; ” it is rarer, and gives a