297 INFLAMMATION OF THE SHEATHS OF TENDONS. are destroyed, with the contractile substance and the sarcolemma; only on the stumps of the muscular filaments in the capsule of the abscess do we find the muscular nuclei (muscular corpuscles) in groups and adherent to the cicatrix; in such cases, according to 0, Weber, there is a considerable new formation of young muscle-cells. The symptoms of an abscess in the muscle are the same as those of any deep abscess; their periods of development and perforation vary with their size and extent. In many cases there is contraction of the muscles in whose substance the abscess develops, as in psoitis. I shall not discuss whether this is the physiological result of the inflammatory irritation, or whether it is half voluntary, and made instinctively by the patient, but am rather incHned to the latter view, for in small and not very painful abscesses and in traumatic inflammations of the muscles, there is usually no contraction, but this occurs only in large ab- scesses, which are compressed by strong fascim.*^ Abscesses in muscles should be opened as soon as fluctuation is felt, and the diagnosis certain. A very pecifliar form of disease of the muscles, which, according to my view, should be classed among subcutaneous inflammations, has been recently discovered and described by Zenhea'; it occurs chiefly in typhoid fever, in the adductor muscles of the thigh; in it the contrac- tile substance in the sarcolemma crumbles and is gradually absorbed, while new muscular filaments form to replace the old. Thus, in most cases, the parts are fully restored ; in other cases permanent atrojjhy of the muscle remains. There is no accurate knowledge as to whether this disease may lead to suppuration, although abscesses of the ab- dominal muscles have been observed after tyjDhus. 6. ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE SHEATHS OF TENDONS AND SUB- CUTANEOUS MUCOUS BUESiE (SEEOUS MEJIBEANES). As is well known, the sheaths of tendons form shut sacs, which enclose some of the tendons of the hands and feet. They may be- come acutely inflamed from contusion, and in some few cases also spontaneously. Like all acutely-inflamed serous membranes, these sacs at first exude a quantity of fibrinous serum; recent fibrinous pseudo-membranes composed of wandering cells may again dissolve, but they may also induce temporary or permanent adhesions of the sheath to the tendon; lastly, there is not unfrequently suppura- tion of the membrane, and at this time the tendon may become necrosed. Pain on motion and slight swelling are the first signs of such inflammation; occasionally there is friction-sound, a grating in the sheath of the tendon, which may be perceived by the hamf, or, still better, by the car. This noise is due to the surfaces of the tendon and of its sheath having become rough from deposits of