ERGOTISM. 333 ment, a young woman had great swelling of the left leg, which Avas soon followed by a dark-blue color of the skin, and complete putrefac- tion of that part of the body; there was general septic poisoning when the patient entered the hospital. As there was no excessive anaemia, and no disease of the arteries could be discovered, I made the diagnosis of endocarditis with fibrinous vegetations on the mitral valve, and detachment of one of these vegetations, with its lodgment at the bifurcation of the left popliteal artery. I held to this diagnosis, al- though no abnormal murmur could be discovered, for it is well known that some cases of endocarditis run their course almost Avithput symp- toms ; the rapid putrefaction of the leg must have had a sudden cause. As no line of demarcation formed, and the general condition daily became worse, Ave could have no hopes of saving life by amputating; death took place about twelve days after the first symptoms of gan- grene ; the autopsy fully confirmed the diagnosis. It seems remark- able that no collateral circulation should develop in such cases, as it does after ligation of the femoral artery. I can only explain this on the.supposition that in endocarditis the heart’s action is AA^eakened, and consequently the pressure of the blood is insuflficient to dilate the smaller collateral arteries. Very rare are the cases where from excessive anmmia the arteries are so much contracted that but little blood circulates through the smaller ones, and the nervous excitation of the heart is so slight that its contractions are incomplete. Cases of spontaneous gangrene from this cause are more frequent in slender chlorotic females than in men; the patients, who are generally young, often suffer from rigidity of the hands and feet, fainting-fits, and fatigue. This disease appears to be more frequent in France than in Germany or England. There is an excellent Avork on the subject by Raynaud^ entitled “ De I’asphyxie locale et de la gangrene sym6trique des extrbmit^s,” 1862. As im- ])lied by the title, the gangrene is usually symmetrical in the two limbs. I have only seen one such case; a young, very anmmic man, without any apparent cause, had first gangrene of the tip of the nose, then of both feet. After suffering for months, he died ; as on the pa- tient, so on the cadaver, I could find nothing morbid beyond the ex- cessive, inexplicable anaemia. The form of gangrene seen from eating spurred rye is referred to permanent spasmodic contraction of the smaller arteries; experience shoAvs that this substance induces contraction of the organic muscular fibres, especially of those of the uterus, and it is supjDosed of the uterine arteries also. Sjmrred rye^ secede cornutwn, is a diseased grain growing in the ear of rye (sccale ccreale), in which is developed a peculiar inateriaL 23