TREATMENT OF CONTRACTIONS. 567 mav, of course, also cause deformities; as necrosis readily follows in jury of a tendon, and cicatricial tissue replaces tire tendon, such a paid as a finger, ■when injured, becomes crooked and stilf. Although, in what has just been said, we have spoken chiefly of the etiology of deformities, still the diagnosis is included there; and it is unnecessary to pursue this point further. Of course the prog- nosis depends entirely on the possibility of removing the causes, and the treatment also varies greatly witlr the latter. To remove contractions, the most natural thing is to stretch the parts; we may try this by having the contracted limb stretched a fen" times daily. But this so-called manipulation^ which is very effica- cious, requires much strength and patience ; hence it seems better to make this extension by the regular action of a macliine. The ex- tending machines now used depend on the combined action of the screw and cog-wheel, a mechanism that has been employed in surgical instruments from the most ancient times ; the machines may be vari- ousl}" constructed, but must be light, firm, and well padded; they should never press too hard, and be made to retain any position ; such machines are most readily made for the knee and elbow; in the shoul- der and hip it is difficult to fix the scapula and pelvis. Extension may be made under anaesthetics, to hasten the progress; but then avoid using too much force, and especially bear in mind that’ cica- tricially-contracted muscles are less distensible than normal ones, and can only be stretched gradually. Mechanical extension can scarcely be applied to those muscular contractions depending on neuroses, or, at most, it can only be used as an adjuvant; the chief treatment must be directed to the nervous affection that has caused the muscular contraction. Not unfrequently these contractions entirely disappear under chloroform, especially when of a reflex character, in the same way that they subside spontaneously in acute articular inflammations, as soon as the jiatient is narcotized; the flexed knee, for instance, may then be extended without the least force. According to Romaic^ many contractions disappear under the use of the constant current of elcclricity; as many excellent men are now engaged studying the constant cuiTent, it is to be hoped that the mystery, which has until lately shrouded this subject, may disappear before clear criticism. Treatment by apparatus {orthopedy) is particularly used in contrac tions of ligaments and fascine. Contractions from cicatrices may be