TREATMENT OF CONTUSED, LACERATED, AND GRANULATING WOUNDS. 37 Secondary Hemorrhage.—In contused wounds there is, however, a far greater proneness to secondary hemorrhage than is met with in any other form of wound, the contusing force often primarily injuring an artery, but not opening it, yet so destroying the vitality of its coats as to set up an inflammatory, sloughing, or ulcerating process, which in its turn may be followed by the formation of an aneurism, a wound, or a rupture of the vessel, and, as a con- sequence, by secondary hemorrhage. Contused wounds are consequently of a more dangerous character than lacerated wounds. Subcutaneous contused wounds, that is, severe contusions of soft parts from the impact of blunt instruments, the passage of a wheel over the part, or other force, without breach of surface or exposure of the injured tissue, are at times more grave than those in which a breach of surface exists. This is hest seen by studying the effects of such kinds of injury upon the abdominal and pelvic viscera, an unbroken and apparently uninjured outside surface often covering a fatal subcutaneous rupture of a solid viscus, or a laceration of a hollow one; but the same fact may be also well seen in severe injuries to ex- tremities, where from a contusing force an ai'tery may be stretched, bruised, or lacerated, large veins may be torn across, nerves injured, and muscular and other tissues irreparably damaged. The amount of harm which deep tissues may have sustained in any given injury, can therefore only be estimated by a correct appreciation of the force which has been applied, and of the position and condition of the injured part at the time of its reception. It can never be made out by simple inspection of outside appearances. Such injuries always demand great care in their treatment. Treatment of Contused, Lacerated, and Open Wounds Healing by Granulation. The principles upon which the treatment of contused, lacerated, or open wounds is based, are the same that have been laid down and explained in considering the treatment of incised wounds, though they may require some modifications in their application, on account of the altered circumstances in which they have to be carried out. For example, in a deep lacerated wound, the surgeon will have to cleanse it and arrest bleeding, as in an incised wound; but he will not have to adjust the divided surfaces and apply sutures, in the same careful way that he would be called upon to do if “quick union” was to be looked and worked for; and he will remember that this change of practice is demanded in contused and lacerated wounds, because there must of necessity be more or less sloughing or molecular disintegration of the lacerated tissue and contused parts around, and that, as a consequence, it becomes a matter of primary importance to leave the wound open, for the free discharge of all such tissues as may have been destroyed, or may die, as well as for the evacu- ation of the fluids which must be poured out in the reparative process. He will, however, in this class of cases as in the former, secure immobility of the wounded part, and fix it in the position which will be easiest to the patient and most conducive to the healing act; and he will not forget to make the fullest provision for the drainage of the wound from its lowest depths. He will, moreover, have to be additionally careful in the dressing of the wound, since it is an open one, as from such, septic matter is more rapidly absorbed before the process of granulation has commenced, and as such a wound is afterwards readily influenced by external applications. In one instance, the wound may have to be regarded and treated as an open one from the first,