554 SYPHILIS. Thesis) was the first to draw attention to syphilitic apoplexy, an affection which it is of the highest practical importance to recognize, because it is in many cases curable if taken in time. The following characteristic points may be noted: 1. The affection may occur in young persons. 2. The stroke occurs suddenly, while the patient is in perfect health, without the slightest prodrome such as is commonly observed in severe brain affections. 3. The following symptoms are observed during the attack: complete coma, the eyes closed, the limbs relaxed, not paralyzed, sensibility to marked exci- tation, persistence of the reflexes, audition unaffected; the patient hears, but cannot reply, or, when pressed, replies feebly by a sign, showing torpor rather than abolition of intelligence; usually vision is interfered with by atrophy of the papillae, the lesions being unequally developed on the different sides ; the irides dilated to the maximum, the upper lids remain closed ; there is sometimes strabismus; respiration calm, but stertorous, pulse regular, no fever, paralysis of the sphincters with involuntary defecation and urination, the urine normal, and giving no sign of uraemia. Finally, epileptiform con- vulsions and vomiting rarely occur. Special attention should be paid to the presence or absence of these symp- toms in all questionable cases. There is no doubt that numbers of patients succumb to what are supposed to be apoplectic seizures, but which are in reality the results of syphilis. A careful examination, with the diagnostic and characteristic features of the disease, as above given, in mind, will in some cases lead to active therapeutic interference with beneficial result. Intellectual Disturbances.—Owing, as has been said, in speaking of syphilitic epilepsy, to the fact that syphilitic lesions are apt to be situated on the peri- phery of the brain mass, intellectual disturbances in the later phases of syphilis are among the commoner nervous affections. Sometimes they occur alone, but more frequently in connection with other nervous manifestations, the fact being that the various symptoms rarely occur separately or in regular order, but are more frequently jumbled together.1 Among the symptoms of a depressive character may be mentioned loss of memory. This is rarely complete, and is extremely variable in its nature and in its progress, some- times being slowly progressive, and at other times occurring suddenly and completely, or in successive attacks. It is apt to be associated with other nervous disorders, such as epilepsy, etc., which may make the diagnosis less difficult. Symptoms of exaltation and perversion, amounting to true mania, are among the symptoms of cerebral syphilis. Is there such an affection as general paralysis, like the well-known general paralysis of the insane, due to syphilitic cerebral disease ? This question lias not yet been decided. It is not enough I think to obtain a history of syphilis, or what passes for such; the connection between cause and effect must be drawn closer, and in addition there should be some cases at least in which antisyphilitic treatment has proved beneficial in the early stages. Visceral Disturbances due to Nervous Lesions.—As visceral sensations are commonly located in the occipital lobes, it might be supposed a priori that syphilitic lesions in these locations would be followed by visceral symptoms, and such indeed is the case. Boulimia, polydipsia, vomiting, polyuria, and even diabetes have been shown to be dependent upon syphilitic lesions of the nerve centres.2 Diminution of the frequency of cardiac action, syncope, 1 For a more detailed description of the intellectual disturbances of syphilis, see F. Dreer, La Sifil. e la Pazzia, Arehivio Ital. per le Mai. Nervose, etc., 1869, and Manssurow, Die tertiar syph. Gehirnleidern Geisteskrankheiten. Wien, 1877. 2 See the very interesting case of Perroud, Ann. de Derm, et de Sypli., t. i., p. 519.