415 CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. Reder at the Military Hospital at Vienna with pus of non-venereal eruptions. Here are the results ; I give them from Reder’s work:—1 “ Bserensprung believed that Bidenkap’s2 experiments lost much of their force from the fact that ulcerations of the skin could be produced upon syphilitic persons with ordinary pus, that is, with pus which was not obtained from chancres nor from syphilitic eruptions. “ Such inoculations, that is, with ordinary pus, were extensively made by Kraus and myself, and they showed that positive results were obtained only when the matter was taken from recent pustules. No inoculations succeeded when the matter was de- rived from long-standing pustules or from abscesses. The most marked results were those obtained from the matter of recent pustules in scabies pustulosa. As often as it was inoculated upon syphilitic patients, a pustule was developed at the point of inocu- lation, which was decidedly contagious during two or three generations, seldom more ; this pustule did not give rise to any ulcer beneath it, but simply to a moist superficial excoriation. This was equally the case whether the inoculations were made upon syphilitic eruptions or upon apparently sound portions of skin. Each of these experi- ments was controlled by and compared with other inoculations made upon healthy persons with the self-same matter, but every one of these latter experiments was negative.” Before going further, let us review the results furnished by these two sets of experiments. In both simple pus was inoculated upon syphilitic persons, and in both the results were positive, the inoculated matter producing pus- tules capable of still further auto-inoculation for two or three generations, and then ceasing. Certainly, as far as they go, the results tally with what we know about the auto-inoculability of the chancroid, except that these experiments were made upon persons whose skin and mucous membranes were made irri- table by their disease (syphilis), and who were debilitated, and whose blood was altered from the same cause. (Witness the examinations of syphilitic blood made by Ricord, Grasse, and others.) Now, if the same property resides in simple pus that we know belongs to chancroidal matter, the former ought to be inoculable upon healthy persons as much as are the latter. This is tried by all investigators, and in every instance the result is negative, showing that there is an element in the syphilitic skin favorable to inoculation which does not reside in the healthy skin. Is this due to syphilis? Pick thought so,3 but it is not clear that Kraus and Reder shared this belief, although it would*have been perfectly natural that they should do so. The next series of experiments was made by an American physician, Hr. Edward Wigglesworth, of Boston, Mass., while resident in Vienna, Austria, during the winter of 1867-8. These experiments have never, as far as I know, been published by himself, and although Dr. W. made me acquainted with the facts some years ago, they never, I believe, appeared in print until 1879, when they were mentioned in the last edition of Dr. Bumstead’s treatise,4 from which I copy them. Dr. Wigglesworth wrote to Dr. Bumstead as follows:— “ I would state that I was free from all disease, whether hereditary or acquired, that I had never had a sore of any kind or any constitutional lesion of the skin or mucous membranes, and that I was merely a little run down from overwork in the hospital. I took from an acne pustule upon myself, pus, which I inoculated upon myself in three places, on the anterior radial aspect of my left forearm at the junction of the middle 1 Pathologie und Therapie der venerischen Krankheiten, S. 25 u. folg. Zweite Aufiafe. Wien, 1868. 2 These were made with the secretion from the initial lesion and from mucous patches, about which I shall have something to say on a subsequent page. 3 Ziessl, op. cit., Bd. 2, S. 56. 4 Op. cit., Introduction, p. 29.