350 GONORRHOEA. cially produced by inoculation of purulent secretions, and, as has been said, affords therefore no evidence of the specific nature of gonorrhoea. The treatment of this, together with that of all the complications that have been detailed, will be described hereafter. Irritative or Abortive Gonorrhoea. There remains to be considered the third variety of so-called “ gonorrhoeas,” the irritative, or “abortive.” Not infrequently after a suspicious connection, a variable interval having elapsed, a patient will present himself complaining of a slight stinging pain on urination, and a little itching or tingling at the meatus. An examination discloses a slight reddening, possibly a little swelling of the lips of that orifice, and a little transparent or very moderately turbid secretion coming from the anterior half-inch of the urethra, and only made to appear at the meatus by firm pressure from behind forward. These symptoms are very similar to those of the earliest stage of an acute ure- thritis, and indeed are altogether indistinguishable from them, a fact of importance in deciding as to the propriety of “ abortive ” treatment. Instead, however, of increasing in intensity, and progressing to decided ardor urinse, chordee, vesical irritation, etc., they remain in statu quo for some days, and then, if not aggravated by improper treatment, subside entirely, the whole duration of the case not exceeding a week or ten days. There are no sequelae and no complications associated with this condition, which is simply one of mucous irritation and consequent hyper-secretion. It is these cases which give their best opportunities to those charlatans who report cures of gonor- rhoea in incredibly short periods, and who can always muster enough of such irritative cases to give a semblance of truth to their assertions. The three varieties of urethritis which have thus been described, may be contrasted as follows; it being understood that such accurate clinical differ- entiation does not invariably occur, but that in many cases the characteristics of the different classes are intermingled. The tabular form will be useful in enabling us to recognize at a glance the main points of difference. Acute Inflammatory Urethritis. Usually a first attack. Begins with a little redness, pouting, and tingling, itching, or smarting at the meatus. Rapidly develops free dis- charge, ardor urinse, chordee, and other symp- toms. Discharge thick, yellow, greenish, or bloody. Usual complications : Prostatitis. Cystitis. Bubo, etc. Treatment at first actively sedative and antiphlogis- tic. Catarrhal Urethritis. Usually a second or subse- quent attack. The same. Most of these symptoms, with the exception of the discharge, are absent. Discharge milky or watery. Most common complica- tions : Rheumatism. Ophthalmia. Treatment may soon be “anti-blennorrhagic:” cu- bebs, copaiba, etc., with injections. Irritative Urethritis. No relation to previous urethral disease. The same, but to a much less degree. All of these symptoms ab- sent ; does not progress beyond this point. Almost no discharge. No complications. No treatment necessary.