689 PARASITES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. and then only when transported in the tissues of some traveller from the southern regions. In its undeveloped state the Guinea worm measures ^ of an inch in diameter. At this period of its existence it penetrates the integument through the sudoriparous glands or their follicles, and finds a lodgment in the cellular tissue. Then follows a period of “latent existence” (Busk), varying from six to eighteen months, during which time the parasite gives little or no evidence of its existence. At the end of that period it measures from two to ten feet in length when uncoiled. It now makes an effort to reach the external world, and in doing so excites the circumscribed inflammation in the integu- ment and subcutaneous cellular tissue that indicates its presence. A minute elevation of the skin occurs just over the residence of the parasite. This spot has a reddish color, itches, and when pressed is painful. The swelling soon becomes harder and redder, looking very much like a small boil; pus forms at its highest point, and the head of the worm protrudes. Ulceration sets in around this point, and may extend some distance into the surrounding tissue; and there may also be some deep-seated spots of suppuration. When the patient has a large number of these worms in various stages of mature development, the local inflammation is accompanied by some pain in the affected extremities and considerable febrile excitement. The treatment consists in cutting down carefully through the inflamed spot, and extracting the parasite with a forceps which grasps the centre of its body. Busk recommends the slow removal of the parasite by winding the body slowly around a piece of pipe-stem, bougie, or twig, bringing out each day a portion until the sac is completely emptied. Pulex Penetrans.—The sand flea, jigger, or pulex penetrans is another troublesome parasite peculiar to southern climates. The male is harmless. The female does not attempt to enter the skin until she becomes impregnated. Then she seeks a nidus in the subcutaneous cellular tissue and skin, where the process of incubation can go on without hindrance. The parasite passes in through the integument under the nails, between the toes, and at other parts of the feet. As soon as the ova distend the abdomen of the flea, a small whitish swelling appears (Busk) which grows rapidly, and excites an inflammation which is apt to lead to the formation of intractable ulcers. The treatment consists in enlarging the opening through which the insect entered, and picking it out with the point of a needle. Afterwards the cavity should be frequently washed with a strong solution of carbolic acid, turpen- tine, or tobacco juice. vol. ii.—44