657 PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. confluence, however, the crusts may form larger patches of irregular shape, the peculiarity of this being caused by the seat of the patches and their method of growth. The minute elements of the fungus gain entrance to the tissues of the skin through the opening of the hair follicle, and from this as a cen- tral point extend downwards into the hair canal, and outwards in all direc- tions into the epidermal layers. At first, a minute globular mass is formed, but, as the growth increases, it is held down at its centre, where it encircles the hair, while in the free epidermal tissues it is allowed an upward as well as a peripheral growth. Upon the scalp, where the hairs are most fully devel- oped, the concave shape of the crust is longest retained, whereas, upon the general surface they lose this characteristic form when large, and project to a much greater elevation. If we remove one of the small and perfect crusts, which is easily done by any blunt instrument, we shall find its under surface convex, and that it is seated upon a smooth and shining, depressed surface of epithelial cells, upon which another crust is immediately reproduced. The color of the crusts in their central portion, or when small, is bright orange ; fading when large, at the outer and older portions, to a pale lemon tint. Their odor is disagreeable and mouse-like, and they are of soft consist- ence. These appearances may be modified by rough handling on the part of the patient, or by the admixture of the fluid products of inflammation, pus, serum, or blood. There is a stage, however, in favus, preceding the appearance of the crusts, which is generally overlooked upon the scalp on account of the presence of the hairs, and which is no doubt often mistaken for ringworm. It is best studied by observing the effects of inoculation upon other portions of the surface. This, is most successfully accomplished by enlarging the openings of hair follicles with a needle, and by applying to the punctures some of the fungus rubbed up with water. In a few days, a red spot is noticed, which is somewhat scaly upon the surface, and which increases slowly in size, appa- rently returning to a natural condition in the centre as it spreads outwards, and with a slightly elevated border. Sometimes minute papules or vesicles may be seen within the patch. These appearances, so strongly resembling ringworm (Tinea trichophytina, in its circulate form), may last three or four weeks, and then, if the growth should not chance to establish itself within the hair follicles, may disappear without the production, of a true favus cup or crust, though often minute masses of the characteristic yellow color may be seen. The error of mistaking this, sometimes called the ringworm stage of favus, for true Tinea trichophytina, and an occasional chance coincidence of the two diseases upon the same portion of skin, have given rise to the opinion, on the part of some dermatologists, that the fungus is identical in both affections. The clinical proofs of the non-identity of the two diseases are found in the fact that pure ringworm occurs in thousands of cases without any develop- ment of favus ; in the highly exceptional simultaneous or consecutive appear- ance of true ringworm in cases of favus; in the frequency of the former in communities, and the rarity of the latter, and in the varying relations of their comparative frequency both in different countries and in cities and rural dis- tricts ; in the prevalence of ringworm of the scalp in orphan asylums for years continuously, without the production or transmission among the inmates of any parasitic affection other than itself; in the ease with which the one, and the difficulty with which the other, is communicated; and in the spon- taneous transmissibility of both forms from man to the domestic animals, and back again through several hosts to the human subject—their individual identity being without exception preserved meanwhile. These, and other facts which might be mentioned, would seem to be conclusive in this matter. vol. ii.—42