271 SINUS AND FISTULA. But as with the aspirator, and as with hyperdistension, so with this plan. Although pus may be satisfactorily removed, it will continue to accumulate whenever, and as long as, active bone or joint disease is present, as a source of suppuration. The results claimed for this method—the immediate healing of large abscesses, without re-accumulation of pus—are, as a rule, to be met with only in simple chronic, or in residual abscesses. Abscesses in the neck, or in any other situation in which it is important to avoid a scar, should be opened before, in the process of pointing, they have led to softening and undermining of the subcutaneous tissue, and to impaired nutrition of the skin. If interference is long delayed, for example, in sup- puration of glands, the destruction of subcutaneous tissue and skin which results will lead to the formation of a depressed, irregular, and adherent scar; while if evacuation is effected through still undamaged skin and subcuta- neous tissue, the scar will be linear, and scarcely visible. To secure drainage, it is advisable to insert, for a few days, a narrow strip of gutta-percha tissue, into the cavity from which pus has been removed. Small abscesses are con- veniently opened with a narrow-bladed tendon knife, introduced where pus is nearest to the surface, while, for those that are more deeply seated, Hilton’s method should be employed. Sinus and Fistula. When suppuration has occurred, the evacuation of matter, whether spon- taneously or by surgical interference, is, under favorable conditions, followed by the sound healing of the passage through which the pus has escaped. Under a variety of circumstances, however, this sound healing is delayed or prevented, and, although the opening may contract to very small dimensions, it does not completely close, but remains as a narrow, and often long and tortuous, canal, sometimes perhaps giving exit to very little secretion, or even seeming to be healed; at other times re-opening and discharging either healthy pus, or thin sero-purulent or watery fluid, mingled it may be with a little blood. Any such persistent passage leading from the surface into the soft parts is termed a sinus. For examples of sinuses may be mentioned, as the most common, those formed in the groin or neck after suppuration in lymphatic glands, or those that lead from the surface of a stump, after ampu- tation, to unsound bone or periosteum, or into the substance of a breast, or into that of a strumous testis. A fistula is an abnormal passage, leading towards, or communicating with, one of the mucous canals or cavities of the body, or running between two adjacent mucous cavities. Fistulse may be congenital (e. g. branchial; and umbilical, when either the urachus, or the ductus vitello- intestinalis remains patent at the umbilicus); or they may follow mechanical injury or wounds (salivary, intestinal); or be left after sloughing (vesico-vaginal); or after ulceration (as in malignant disease between the rectum and the blad- der). In many of the varieties of fistula there is a direct continuity of skin and mucous membrane, or of two mucous membranes, lining the canals be- tween which the opening is situated, while in others, the communication consists of a canal of more or less length lined with unhealthy granulations. The descriptions just given apply to the terms sinus and fistula when they are defined with the purpose of maintaining a clear difference between them. It is customary, however, in practice, not only in the instance of incomplete fistula in ano, but on many other occasions, to use the word fistula as if it were synonymous with sinus, as when we speak of fistulse, or fistulous pas- sages, leading to dead bone, or towards a diseased joint. As “fistula” strictly