666 SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. needs. When once established, it seldom disappears spontaneously, but may go on for years, perhaps dying out largely during the winter, to revive and extend over wider areas during the summer. It often gives rise to great itching of the parts affected, although in some cases the patient is not made conscious of the presence of the disease by any subjective symptoms. It is often mistaken for the pigment stains upon the skin, called moth or chloasma, an affection which differs from it in position, course, and clinical history. It is of quite frequent occurrence, although its presence is often overlooked by its host, and is discovered by the physician when examining the naked chest for other purposes. It is for this reason only that it is so often found upon consumptive patients, for its growth is entirely independent of the general condition of the person affected, nor does it exert any injurious influence upon the same. It is positively contagious, although by no means so easily com- municated to new hosts as ringworm; and its direct transference from one individual to another is seldom observed except among those living in the closest personal intimacy. Upon the domestic animals it has never been observed. Microscopic Appearances.—If some of the scales removed from a patch of the disease be treated with a drop of potassa solution, and examined with the microscope, countless numbers of round conidia or spores are seen, grouped in clusters, of high refractive power, and resembling minute oil globules. Associated with these are fine tubes of mycelium, running in a network of endless intricacy. The growth extends but slightly within the hair follicles. The plant concerned in the production of this disease has been called Micros- poron furfur. Treatment.—As the growth is very superficial, less active parasiticides are required for its destruction than in cases of favus or ringworm. Thorough sopping with sulphurous acid, morning and evening, is a cleanly method of treatment, but is objectionable on account of its suffocating properties when applied over large surfaces. Oil of turpentine, rubbed into the parts at night, will be generally well borne, and is an effective remedy. A sulphur ointment mixed with creasote (Sulpliuris |ss, creasoti gtt. xv, adipis 3ij) may be rub- bed in every night, as thoroughly as the individual’s skin will allow, and is then to be washed off in the morning with tar soap, or, if the skin will bear it, with soft soap. Mercurial preparations cannot be employed when the affected surface is extensive. Whatever remedies are used, are to be applied continuously for long periods, even after the disease has apparently disap- peared. Unless this precaution be followed, the growth will surely revive after a longer or shorter period. II. Animal Parasites. The animals that are strictly parasitic upon man, those, that is, that attach themselves to him throughout all the phases of their existence, and derive their sustenance from his tissues, are few in number. They are: Demodex folliculorum, Sarcoptes hominis, Pediculus capitis, Pediculus corporis, and Phthirius pubis. There are many others which prey upon man to a greater or less extent, but which are not strictly parasitic upon him, such as fleas, gnats, ticks, bedbugs, etc. Demodex Folliculorum.—This minute mite, which inhabits the hair folli- cles, needs only a mere mention, as it gives rise to no phenomena, is of fre- quent occurrence upon healthy skins, and requires no treatment.