102 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. one death. In the same war there were 2700 killed in action, and, if the same proportion should hold for these, the total number of cases of bayonet wound would be 93, with 24 deaths, and of cases of sword wound 107, with 21 deaths. The records of the Mexican war of 1846 make no distinction between gunshot and sword and bayonet wounds, nor can I find any statistics of the relative frequency of these two classes of wounds in the Franco- German war of 1870. In the late War of the Rebellion, out of a total of 400,000 wounds, there were 22,700 incised and 5900 punctured wounds. But few of these, however, were inflicted with sabre or bayonet. If a man cut his finger while “ whittling,” and was taken on sick report, he constituted one of the 22,000 subjects of incised wounds. The punctured wounds were usually of the same trivial character. No data exist from which a correct and exact statement can be made of the relative frequency of gunshot wounds and sabre or bayonet wounds during this war. In the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, 481 cases of sabre wound, with 18 deaths, and 188 cases of bayonet wound, with 19 deaths, are noticed, and are explicitly- attributed to the weapons named. How many more of the 400,000 wounds were bayonet or sabre wounds cannot now be deter- mined. The fact that these wounds are of very infrequent occurrence, is so well known to military men that it has been proposed by more than one officer to discard both weapons; and, indeed, one of the strongest arguments for the substitution of the trowel-bayonet for the weapon of the old pat- tern was the fact that the offensive powers of the latter were of so little importance. Sabre Wounds of the Head.—Of the 282 cases of sabre wound of the scalp, recorded in the Medical and Surgical History of the War, 263 ended in complete recovery, while 11 patients were disabled, 3 died from inter- current disease, and 3 died of the injury. There were 49 cases of wound of the cranium, of which 13 terminated fatally, mostly from encephalitis. In some cases the sabre will completely detach a circular plate of bone, and leave it hanging by the scalp. The proper treatment of such a case is not settled. The temptation, of course, would be to put bone, scalp, and all, back into place, and let them unite, if they would. But it seems to me that the probabilities of non-union, and the risks of necrosis, suppuration, and encephalitis, would greatly outweigh the advantages of having a bony cover for the wound. My own practice would be therefore that recom- mended by the Historian of the War of the Rebellion, to dissect out the bone, saving the pericranium if possible, and then to hold the soft parts in their place by a sufficiency of antiseptic catgut stitches. In cases of sabre wound of Steno’s duct, the experience of our war was that spontaneous healing might be counted on. I myself saw such an event happen, during the war, in a case of gunshot wound of the duet in question, [and an equally fortunate result was obtained, a few years since, in a case of salivary fistula resulting from gunshot wound involving this duct, under the care of the Editor.] Sabre Wounds of the Abdomen.—Sabre wounds of the abdomen are rare, for the dull sabre is incapable of cutting the soft, yielding, abdominal tissues, protected as these are by folds of cloth, and sword stabs are not very common. Our soldiers, contrary to the theoretical teachings which they receive, use the edge of the sword rather than its point. Sabre Wounds of Forearm.—Formerly, when duels with swords were more common than at present, the object being to disable rather than to kill an antagonist, wounds of the flexor muscles and tendons of the sword fore-