676 DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. In the local as well as in the general treatment, attention must he given to the idiosyncrasies of the patient. It is well to remember that “ what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.” If the patient has had a previous attack of cellulitis, it will be useful to learn whether hot applications were more soothing than cold ones, or vice versa. When the system is not depressed, and the general condition is good, cold applications to the part by means of rubber ice-bags will often allay the pain, diminish the swelling, lower the general as well as the local temperature, and limit the disease. If the patient is very sensitive, the ice-bags may be separated from the integument by a folded towel. These cold applications may he continued until suppuration supervenes; when that occurs they should be discontinued. If the patient is very weak, and if any purplish discoloration of the integu- ment is present, indicating a tendency to stagnation of blood, cold applications will not answer. They are also contraindicated in subacute or chronic cellu- litis, because they conduce to the formation of gangrenous sloughs, and retard the return to a healthy state. In all such cases hot applications are the best. Pieces of heavy blanket or folded towels, dipped in hot water, may be applied, and frequently changed. When the cloths are wet, a few drops of laudanum, or of the lotio plumbi et opii, may be poured on the surface next to the skin. This preparation acts in conjunction with the hot water, in exerting a sedative effect, and in relieving the pain. Some recommend clay poultices, in all stages of the disease. Poultices made of linseed meal, slippery elm, bran, etc., are also used. Charcoal poultices are excellent when suppuration is going on. As the areolar tissue is readily permeated by the exudates, and as the pressure of the exuded material on the bloodvessels of the part soon cuts off the supply of nutriment and causes necrosis of the inflamed tissue, it is well, in the early stages of the disease, to resort to free incisions; and since, as before remarked, the tendency in all cases of cellulitis is to early suppura- tion and the formation of sinuses which are exceedingly difficult to heal, the use of the knife is indicated before pus forms, while the acute stage is at its height. Leeches or cathartics will not answer the purpose. Early and free incisions will generally retard the disease, and prevent extensive suppu- ration and the formation of sinuses. Some surgeons object to early incisions, on the ground that the blood- vessels opened by the knife afford a means of contamination to the general system by pus and poisonous germs; hut this objection would he as rational at any period of the disease, and would prevent incisions even after the for- mation of pus. It must not be overlooked that the destructive poisons at work in the interior of the diseased tissue break down the walls of the lymph channels and capillary bloodvessels, produce coagula in veins, and confine a mass of poisonous material where it can gain a ready access to the general circulation and excite serious constitutional changes. If early incisions are made,and if the parts are afterwards thoroughly cleansed with carbolized water, no danger from blood-poisoning need be apprehended; indeed, experience shows that there is much less danger than when purulent formations are allowed to take place, and the pus is permitted to burrow in the neighboring tissues. When the parts have been sufficiently incised, a poultice, made of equal parts of linseed meal and charcoal, should be applied for three or four days. At the end of that time frequent syringing with carbolized water, or with a solution of chloral hydrate (five grains to the ounce), will he sufficient. When granulations spring up, a dressing of balsam of Peru will be of advantage. Another good method of treatment, which has been employed with suc- cess in traumatic cellulitis, is to immerse the inflamed limb in a tin or zinc basin filled with water at blood-heat, or as high as 110° P.; when suppura- tion has commenced carbolic acid may be added to the water. The limb