APPLICATION OF THE ASEPTIC METHOD TO OPERATIONS. 77 portions of the threads projecting from the wound fall off, and the point of exit cicatrizes. This method of drainage is very satisfactory in some cases, but the chief objection to it is that the catgut is apt to become absorbed too soon, before, indeed, a drain can be dispensed with. How far the new chro- mic acid catgut will obviate this difficulty remains to be seen. In some cases, horsehair has been employed instead of drainage tubes, and it answers very well where the discharge is purely serous. It has, however, the same objection as drainage tubes, that it requires to be removed ; and there is a further objec- tion, that it is not as easy to reintroduce it as it is to reinsert a drainage tube. In some instances, however, it affords the best means of drainage; for example, in situations where a tube might be liable to become compressed and obstructed, as in a joint. Dr. Neuber1 has quite recently applied Chiene’s principle of absorbable drains to drainage tubes. He decalcifies bones, drills a central hole in them, and cuts lateral holes just as in ordinary drainage tubes. These tubes, like Chiene’s catgut drains, become absorbed in a few days, and answer very well in some cases. The stitching of the wound is a matter of the greatest consequence with a view to rapid healing. In wounds treated antiseptically, provided that the Fig. 221. Button stiich. drainage be properly arranged, the edges of the skin may be brought very accurately together, even where a large piece of skin has been removed, and Fig. 222. Shows the three kinds ot stitches in a wound, and the arrangement of the drainage tube. where, therefore, there is considerable tension. To relieve the edges of the skin from this tension, and at the same time to allow them to be brought into accurate contact, lead buttons are employed in the following manner: A needle carrying a strong piece of wire, to the end of which a button is attached in 1 Archiv fur klinische Chirurgie, Band xxiv.