86 POISONED WOUNDS. in 1860, remained open for seven months. Bryant,1 under the name of Ver- ruca necrogenica, proposed by Dr. Wilks, mentions a warty condition occa- sionally seen on the posterior aspect of the fingers, or on the knuckles, in those engaged in dissecting fresh bodies. This lesion, called also “anatomi- cal tubercle,” seems to consist of an inflammatory hypertrophy of the cuticle, and to some extent of the true derm. It is slow and obstinate in its course, unattended with any constitutional symptoms, and yields to local treatment by iodine and caustics. In a severer grade of dissection-wounds, there is, in addition to the local irritation, a line of redness (sometimes several), extending up the forearm, and marking the course of one or more inflamed lymphatics. There may also be more or less general swelling of the member, with tenderness and stiffness, and some degree of fever. A not infrequent termination of a case of this kind is by swelling of a lymphatic gland, either on the front of the forearm, just above the elbow, or in the axilla. When suppuration of the gland takes place, the poison seems to be discharged, and all the symptoms subside; but I have seen such a gland remain swollen and tender for some time after its healing had seemed complete. The condition just referred to is very similar to what may be observed in many cases of injury to the foot, even in the apparently robust. It not very unfrequently happens after the fracture of a toe, or even a slighter hurt, in laboring men, that a “ bubo” is formed in the upper part of the thigh ; and the same may occur in healthy and well-nourished children, even in the better classes. Still another class of cases may be mentioned, in which the local trouble consists in the development of a earbuncular swelling somewhere on the hand or forearm, or in a crop of boils in the same region; in the latter case there is apt to be one large one surrounded by a number of small ones. The con- stitutional symptoms, with fever and depression, may be quite marked during the height of the local irritation. Sometimes the local disturbance is more violent, and a cellulitis of the finger ensues, with suppuration, tending to follow up the sheaths of the tendons; this may occur without involvement of more central parts, but the constitu- tional symptoms are apt to be marked. In the majority of instances, the whole limb is more or less concerned, and the cases would then come under the class next to be described. With any of these forms of dissection-wound, except the anatomical tubercle, there is very apt to be a more or less extensive area of erythematous redness in the neighborhood of the lesion. n the severest grade of these cases, the constitutional symptoms are very decided, and the local inflammation runs very high, extending rapidly toward the more central parts of the body. At a variable period after the poison has been received, there is pain, itching, and burning at the spot, and a gen- eral sense of malaise and depression. This is soon succeeded by headache, nausea, chilliness, and aching in the back and limbs. The pain runs up the arm, and the whole member becomes swollen and tender, especially along the anterior and inner aspects. Intense fever comes on, especially at night, and the patient is either sleepless, or disturbed by frightful or harassing dreams. On the occurrence of suppuration, which may involve a large extent of the areolar tissue of the arm or side,2 there are general rigors, and a further increase of fever. Low muttering delirium is early developed, with great 1 Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 3d Am. ed., p. 66. 2 At a recent meeting of the Clinical Society of London (Lancet, Feb. 19, 1881), Messrs. Heath and Cripps reported cases of gangrene of the arm from poisoned wounds. In Mr. Heath’s case amputation was successfully performed ; hut in the other it was postponed until too late, and the patient died. Sloughing of the cellular tissue, as already said, is very generally resent in these cases ; but gangrene of the limb is very rare.