HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. 557 The two following cases, which I select as illustrating the difficulties of the subject, show the strongly convincing facts which may be brought forward for either view :— Mireur1 gives the following striking illustration of syphilis in the father failing trans- mission in procreation, only to be conveyed to his child by direct contact after birth. M. C. suffered with chancre and generalized symptoms, for which he was treated, and was apparently cured. About ten or eleven months after the chancre he married. His wife at once became pregnant, and gave birth to a healthy child who remained well up to the age of two years. Meantime M. C. had now and then some “ vague souvenirs” of his former disease, and at the end of this period showed a slight erosion on his lower lip. As he thought nothing of this indolent lesion, he continued to fondle and kiss his child as usual. A short time after, however, the child showed a well-marked labial chancre, followed by generalized symptoms. Taylor,2 on the other hand, gives ibis equally convincing illustration of the exclusive paternal transmission of syphilis : A woman to all appearance healthy, under the careful scrutiny and observation of Dr. Taylor himself, but whose husband was and continued to be the subject of syphilitic disease, gave birth to four syphilitic children in succession. Then, 1 er husband coming under treatment, she gave birth to a healthy child. After- wards, the husband having neglected treatment meanwhile, and having suffered a relapse of his syphilitic disease, the wife gave birth to a syphilitic child. Finally, a year or two subsequently, the husband having once more submitted to a thorough course of treat- ment, the wife gave birth to a healthy child. The wife remained without treatment, excepting the use of quinine and iron, through the whole period of this history, and at no time showed any signs of syphilitic disease. A few cases have been reported going to show that even when both parents present the evidences of syphilitic disease, the infant may be free from syphi- lis; but these observations must be regarded as doubtful, excepting where the parents have both been under treatment at the time of conception, and the mother subsequently, or where the disease is of long standing, only manifest- ing itself in sluggish local affections. A certain immunity to the child exists in late syphilis of the mother. I have at pre- sent under observation a woman in her twelfth year of syphilis, who conceived while suffering from a gummatous ulcer of the arm, for which irregular and insufficient treat- ment was pursued, with intervals of no treatment, a month or more in duration. This woman gave birth to a child which now, sixteen months old, has as yet shown no sign of syphilitic disease, but is fat and flourishing. The mother’s lesion is gradually heal- ing under more regular treatment pursued of late. As regards the influence of father and mother after conception, that of the former may be dismissed as nil. The so-called cases of infection of the foetus by syphilitic semen are now known to be incorrectly reported, since repeated experiments have shown that semen cannot convey the syphilitic virus. It is otherwise with the mother. If she has conceived a healthy child by a healthy father, and is subsequently contaminated, the foetus will suffer. How long and to what period this susceptibility of the foetus to the syphilis of the mother exists, cannot be accurately stated. Most observers agree in admitting that if the mother is infected with syphilis before the seventh month of pregnancy, the foetus can hardly escape. After that date, it is un- certain whether or no the maternal influence can be reckoned as giving rise to syphilis in the infant. Most of the cases of later infection lack the essen- tial data to be convincing. The idea formerly entertained that the child could contract syphilis during birth from chancre, mucous patches, etc., upon the external genitals of the mother, has been dispelled by the result of practical observation, which shows 1 Essai sur 1’HerMite de la Syphilis. Paris, 1867. 2 A Contribution to the Study of the Transmission of Syphilis. Archives of Clinical Surgery, Sept. 1876.