COMPLICATIONS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 129 is accompanied with very little local disturbance—so little that practically the repair is by first intention—yet, in the great majority of cases, gunshot wounds follow the ordinary course of lacerated and contused injuries. The devitalized tissue along the track; is thrown off, suppuration occurs, granula- tions are developed, adhesions take place, and the external wounds in due time cicatrize. The inflammation which attends the reparative process is early set up, frequently within a few hours—six or eight—almost certainly within twenty-four, and in simple cases presents nothing peculiar. In the severer injuries, as those in which a bone is damaged, both the local and constitutional symptoms are much graver, and there is a strong probability of the development of one or more of the several complications to which re- ference will presently be made. In proportion as the patient is in good health, receives prompt attention, and is kept quiet, is the probability of but a moderate degree of inflammation resulting; and, on the other hand, when, as is so often the case in time of war, the constitution is already enfeebled by excesses, over-work, or disease—the wound is for hours, perhaps days, neglected—and the patient has been jolted for miles over rough roads—even the simplest of flesh wounds may be attended by local and general disturb- ances of high grade. Complications of Gunshot Wounds. Of much greater importance, because of their much greater danger to life, are the not necessary, but frequently occurring, complications of inflammation and results of wounds: secondary hemorrhage, septicaemia and pyaemia, gan- grene, erysipelas, and tetanus. Secondary Hemorrhage.—Though, as we have already seen, severe primary bleeding is of comparatively infrequent occurrence in the cases of gunshot wound coming under treatment, a later hemorrhage very often takes place, and contributes largely to the fatality of such injuries. This bleeding may come on within a few hours after reaction has been established (when it is simply “ delayed,” and not properly “ secondai’y”), or, which is much more common, after the expiration of several days or even weeks; complete cer- tainty of its non-occurrence being only secured by the entire healing of the wound. In the great majority of cases, secondary hemorrhage depends either upon the separation of an originally contused portion of the vessel-wall, or upon the melting down of an artery and of its plugging coagulum, in the midst of an inflamed and suppurating area. In the former case, it is most likely to come on during the second week, and probably the first half of it; and in the latter, somewhat later, quite generally from the fifteenth to the twenty- first day. The first hemorrhage is usually very profuse, when the artery is opened by the detachment of a slough, and may be so when due to ulceration, though frequently in such a case it is primarily but slight, but soon recurs in larger and perhaps fatal amount. The blood may almost wholly escape externally, or may be chiefly poured out into the surrounding tissues ; or there may be both extensive infiltration and large discharge from the wound. The accident may come on without any special exciting cause; or may be due to injudicious movements—as, for instance, of a limb in which a sharp edge of bone has been for days fretting away the arterial coats, or in which a bone fragment is thrust against an already softened vessel—or of the whole body, as when the patient makes an unwonted exertion, as in jumping out of bed; may result from sudden dis- turbance of the circulation from mental excitement, as from anger; or, which VOL. II.—9