273 SINUS AND FISTULA. tissue almost destitute of granulations. Sinuses derive some of their charac- ters from the structures through which they pass. They are often of great length when they run parallel with tendons, or have been formed within their sheaths, or when they are the outlet for suppuration occurring in bursee beneath healthy muscles, as under the gluteus maximus, or the deltoid, or under broad expansions of fasciae, as in the popliteal space, or the side of the neck; while if they pass through structures arranged in planes with loose intervening cellular tissue—as in the abdominal wall—they are irregular and tortuous, and complicated with secondary passages and wide ramifications. Formation of Sinuses.—The conditions tending to produce sinuses and fistuke of the kind now under consideration, are chiefly the following:— (1) Those which are mechanical, and which interfere with the ready out- flow of matter; as when suppuration has occurred at a distance from the sur- face, in loose cellular tissue, beneath the expansion of a large muscle, or beneath structures formed in layers which slide one upon another, as in the abdominal wall. Or again when suppuration is deeply placed and the exter- nal opening is insufficient, so that drainage is incomplete and matter is allowed to “ bag.” (2) Those that consist in the presence of some persistent source of irritation, which, though it may be trivial, is sufficient to maintain the discharge of a little pus, or perhaps only of a small quantity of serous exudation. The source of irritation may be the necrosed fang of a tooth, a small fragment of exfoliated bone, a patch of unsound periosteum, the diseased synovial sheath of a tendon, caseous material in the substance of a gland, or some foreign body such as a fragment of glass, of clothing carried in by gunshot or other violence, etc. (3) Those that are due to defective health, or to constitutional disease, and which are met with in abscesses following typhoid or scarlet fever; or which depend upon the tubercular diathesis, and predispose to the formation of fistula in ano. (4) Those associated with the escape of secretion from the mucous canal with which the fistula communicates, as in lachrymal and salivary fistula. In some cases in which, during the operation for the extirpation of dermoid and other cysts, the lining membrane has not been completely removed, the portion left continues to secrete serous or sero-purulent fluid, and so main- tains a discharge which, though it may be small in amount, is persistent, and very annoying to the patient. Treatment of Sinuses.—The means by which sinus and fistula may be treated are chiefly: the removal of foreign bodies or any other source of irri- tation ; laying the passage open and leaving it to granulate; the provision of free drainage, either by enlarging the existing orifice by incision or dilata* tion, or by making counter-openings; the use of drainage-tubes ; rest; press- ure ; injections ; the cautery; plastic operations; and—often an essential accessory to local measures—the improvement of the general health. The removal of any source of irritation is all that is required in many in- stances in which every other method of treatment will completely fail. Un- less great caution is used, and a thorough examination made, the presence of some local cause for the persistence of suppuration may be overlooked. In doubtful cases, the passage should be repeatedly, but always gently, explored, and, if necessary, it must be either dilated, or laid open, in order that the exploration may be complete. All surgeons have met with cases in which sinuses have been laid open, packed, injected, and treated in a variety of other ways, to no purpose, and in which, at length, the discovery of some source of VOL. II. —18