SPECIAL MODES OF TREATING WOUNDS. 41 by any coarse material object harder than a camel’s-hair pencil, but should be washed by means of a stream of fluid allowed to flow either from the dressing irrigating bottle (see Fig. 208, page 26), or from the irrigating appara- tus (Fig. 209), and the washing fluid should be water containing some of the antiseptic salts or minerals to which reference has already been made. In my own practice, iodine water is generally used. It matters little whether the wound be superficial or deep, since a like practice is called for in either case, though where the wound is deep, and where there may be some collec- tion of pus or other fluid, the ingenuity of the surgeon may be taxed to meet the requirements of the case. As a rule, where a drainage-tube is used, the washing out of the cavity can well be effected through it; and where it is not, the end of the tube which is fixed to the piston of the irrigating bottle answers every purpose. In every case, the wound and cavity must be well cleansed with an antiseptic solution, and this cleansing process must be per- formed with gentleness and efficiency, in order that, on the one hand, the granulations, whether of the surface of the wound or within the cavity, may not be bruised or otherwise injured, and on the other, that no retained secre- tion may be left behind to irritate and distend the tissues, or to undergo decomposition. When the granulating process is not of a healthy type, and when the granulations show either deficiency or excess of power, or some morbid action, medicated lotions and constitutional treatment may be required, to which attention will be directed on another page. Treatment of Wounds to promote Healing by Secondary Adhesion. As in the treatment of a fresh wound to obtain “quick or primary adhe- sion,” the surgeon has simply to cleanse the wound, after arresting bleeding, and to bring the two surfaces into close apposition by the simplest means, and keep them so; thus, in the treatment of a case in which healing by sec- ondary adhesion is sought for, he has simply to bring together the two granu- lating surfaces, cleansed from all impurities, by such means as are suggested by the special requirements of the case, and to leave them to unite. In harelip or other lip operations, where quick union has been missed, and this secondary adhesion is sought, it may be obtained by the introduction of deep sutures, or even pins; in deep flesh wounds, or after operations, as on the breast, by means of strapping, well applied; and in stumps, after amputations, by means of splints, pads, and bandages. In all cases, the immobility of the part treated is subsequently to be rigidly attended to, and time must be given for union to complete itself before the dressing is disturbed. Special Modes of Treating Wounds. To estimate correctly, with the light of our present knowledge, the value of any special method of treating wounds, it is necessary to keep constantly in mind the six points to which attention has been directed, since these points are essential principles of practice which should be followed under all circum- stances. Indeed, so essential are they, that the value of any special method of treating wounds may be tested by them, and the method regarded as good, bad, or indifferent, according to the measure or degree in which it fulfils the requirements enumerated. (See page 28.) A mode of dressing which satisfies all these requirements or indications, in a simple and efficient way, mnst be regarded as perfect; and a mode which embodies in itself the greater number