589 APPEARANCE OF VENEREAL WARTS. decomposition of the natural secretions of the parts; but, on the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the irritating discharges arising from venereal diseases are a frequent cause of their production. The occasional occurrence of these vegetations in the lower animals also furnishes additional evidence of their not necessarily being of venereal origin. The special susceptibility of the mucous membranes and skin of certain persons to the production of warts, has been attributed to constitutional peculiarity or inherited predisposition, and by Martin to the presence of a “ lymphatic diathesis.” Diday,1 from an investigation of fifty-five cases of warts upon the genital organs, found that, in forty-seven cases, the patients had suffered during childhood from warts occurring elsewhere. The favorite seats for the production of these growths in the male are, the internal surface of the prepuce, the furrow behind the corona glandis, the glans penis itself, and the edge of, or just within, the meatus; in the female, they appear on the labia, the vagina, and about the anus. Heat and moisture —conditions which exist in the above-named localities—are elements favorable for the development of vegetations. The condition of phimosis acts as a pre- disposing cause in the production of these growths, the concealed condition of the parts rendering the removal of the natural secretions, or of the dis- charges due to venereal disease, difficult or impossible. Appearance of Venereal "VVarts.—When situated upon the genitals, warts are generally attended with a whitish or yellowish discharge, due to the irri-. tation caused by friction, or to positive ulceration; from the heat of the parts, the discharge undergoes decomposition, and gives rise to a peculiarly offensive odor. In shape and size the growths may pre- sent great variety, this depending much on their location; on the glans penis, and on the inner surface of the prepuce (Plate XV. Fig. 1), they may occur as elevated masses, granular in ap- pearance, and either sessile or pedunculated; or they may exist singly, as slightly flattened cones. When they occur on the skin of the prepuce or on the body of the penis, they are apt to be con- ical in shape, and to show a predominance of the horny layer; in the neighborhood of the anus they may occur as elevated masses, flattened by pressure (Fig. 341); and in the female genitalia they are frequently seen as large masses, resem- bling cauliflower excrescences (Plate XV. Fig. 2). The extent to which these growths may in- vade certain localities is only limited by the area of surface favorable for their production; the anus and vulva may be completely sur- rounded; the vagina may be almost occluded; and the configuration of the glans penis and pre- puce may be entirely masked. Causes of Vegetations; Question of Conta- gion.—These growths are more common in ■women than in men ; the large extent of mucous surface liable to be irritated by the secretions Fig. 341. Vegetations around anus in a child. Diday, Therapeutique des Maladies VSneriennes, p. 346, 1876.