510 SYPHILIS. may be rubbed oil by the attrition of the food, when a slightly depressed, smooth, red surface remains. Vegetations may occasionally form in this locality, as in the case of moist papules on the integument. These, in my experience, are much more rebellious to local treatment than the ordinary mucous patches occurring in this locality. Mucous patches upon the tonsils are peculiarly exposed to irritation, and are often very difficult to heal. Sometimes they develop into ulcers, attended by considerable inflammation and swelling of the surrounding parts, which may at times obscure the ori- ginal lesion and render it difficult of diagnosis. Deglutition may be con- siderably impeded, and the swelling may close the Eustachian tube and pro- duce more or less complete, temporary deafness. The neighboring lymphatic glands are sometimes sympathetically enlarged when the mucous patches are inflamed. The earliest appearance of mucous patches is on the twentieth day after contagion ; the usual period for the first appearance of the lesions is from one to two months after contagion, although they may not appear for five or six months after this period. The early administration of mercury delays the appearance of- mucous patches sometimes to eighteen months. Their reappear- ance at a later period in the history of the disease is one of the most certain signs of the renewed activity of the virus. Treatment.-—Mucous patches invariably demand local as well as general treatment. When they occur within the female genitalia, astringent and detergent injections, such as the decoction of oak-bark or Labarracpie’s solu- tion, are useful. Pencilling with nitrate of silver may also be required. Eor mucous patches of the mouth, pencilling with nitrate of silver, in stick or solution, should be frequently practised, and the following mouth-wash may he employed:— Powdered chlorate of potassium, 3j* “ Eau de Botot,” fjiv. Use a teaspoonful in a wineglass of water, as a gargle, four or five times daily. It is hardly necessary to add that the most scrupulous attention to cleanli- ness is demanded, and, in case of mucous patches of the mouth, the use of tobacco must be strictly forbidden. The tobacco-chewer, in particular, is apt to keep his mucous patches indefinitely. I always insist upon the abandon- ment of this mode of using tobacco, and decline to treat the case without a pledge that my directions in this matter will be complied with. Syphilis of the Cellular Tissue; Gummatous Tumors. Something has already been said about the gummata in dealing with the syphilitic affections of the skin, and some further remarks on the nature of these tumors will be made further on when describing the various lesions of the viscera. It may be repeated now, however, that the chief seat of the gumma is in the connective tissue wherever found. The name gumma is given to those small tumors which contain at one period or another of their existence a thick gummy fluid. They are among the later lesions of syphilis. Their appearance differs somewhat, according to the region attacked. At the outset, gummata of the subcutaneous connec- tive tissue present themselves in the form of grouped or isolated tumors of small size, rolling under the finger, roundish, hard, and completely indolent. After a time they lose their mobility, and become adherent to the superjacent skin, which in its turn gradually becomes involved. The tumor now softens in the centre, and the skin covering it begins to change, becomes red in color,