612 SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. epidermis into pustules. In both ways there is established an Eczema pustu- losurn. So, too, in eczema madidans, the serum oozing from the excoriated surfaces may become purulent, and greenish sero-purulent crusts may then be formed. This condition is also called eczema pustulosum, the extreme grade of eczematous inflammation. Eczema Squamosum.—In the retrogressive stage of all these forms, the skin may be left for an indefinite time in a reddened condition, with an imper- fectly formed epidermis, as shown by the presence of scales, either fine and branny, or adhering in thicker and flaky masses. This condition is known as Eczema squamosum. Symptoms and Course of Eczema.—When any of these forms of eczema has lasted for some time, or when those of short duration have recurred at brief intervals upon the same part of integument, a thickening takes place in the underlying tissues of the latter, due to the presence of immense num- bers of round cells in the upper layers of the corium. The skin is firmer to the touch, is less elastic, and is not easily pinched up in folds. This tissue change is called infiltration, and it may persist for an indefinite period after the surface le- sions, which preceded it, have disappeared. It is always the essential feature of chronic eczema, a measure of the past and future duration of the case in which it occurs. As a later and characteristic manifestation, also, of chronic eczema of long standing, when the skin has lost its elasticity in consequence of this cell infiltration, cracks or fissures, often extending deeply into the corium, are formed over parts often stretched, as over the joints, and these may give rise to hemorrhagic crusts. In patches of chronic infiltration, too, where the vitality of the skin has been reduced, as upon the lower legs in consequence of impeded circulation, the tissues often undergo ulceration, and the process of repair is extremely slow. The coloring matter of the blood, moreover, is extravasated at times in long-continued eczema of these parts, and perma- nently stains the cutaneous tissues. Diffused discolorations and cicatrices of the lower leg, therefore, frequently mark the seat of a former eczema. As a rare complication or sequela of the disease in its chronic varieties, a hyper- trophy of the papilla; of the skin, in the form of papillomatous elevations of various sizes, may be developed in consequence of the superabundant supply of plastic material. In its varying phases, then, eczema may present the following lesions: the hypersemic macule, papule, vesicle, pustule, excoriation, crust, scale, and fis- sure; and as one or other of these predominates at any moment, we have a so-called eczema erythematosum, papulosum, vesiculosum, madidans, pustulo- sum, or squamosum. Several of these varieties may be present at the same time upon different or contiguous portions of the skin of an individual, and may change, by development or involution, the one into the other. The dis- ease may apparently begin in any of these forms, excepting eczema squamo- sum, and may run through its various stages so rapidly, that the early and intermediate ones escape notice. To these, the earlier manifestations, may be added in time more deeply seated tissue-changes, such as cell-infiltration, ulceration, pigmentation, and hypertrophy of the papillae. Eczema may be acute or chronic, in form as well as in course. The former variety is characterized by lesions, acute both in character and duration, which may recur over and over again, and thus protract the history of the case in- definitely, and yet remain acute in type. The characteristic feature of the chronic form is cell infiltration. The two conditions may, therefore occur in combination, acute surface lesions being developed upon old infiltrated patches of skin.