462 SYPHILIS. lien, op. cit., p. 588. At times local medication must be used in addition to general treatment. Bumstead and Taylor recommend the use of bougies made of mercurial oint- ment two parts, and white wax six parts. Occasionally iodoform, one drachm to each ounce of the other ingredients, may be employed. Chancre op Cervix Uteri.—Chancre of the cervix uteri was formerly regarded as an extremely rare lesion. Fournier, however, met with 13 cases in a total of 249 chancres of the female genitalia, and quite a number of cases have been reported by other observers. It is undoubtedly more common than statistics would seem to indicate, and must often pass unnoticed. In the majority of cases, this form of chancre occupies the central portion of the cervix, seeming to lose itself in the orifice. It is commonly single, but may be multiple, and varies in size from that of a bean to that of a small coin, sometimes even reaching a diameter of three centimetres. When it occurs of small size it probably often escapes observation. As chancre of the cervix uteri is continually bathed by the various secretions of the locality, its color is less bright than that of the lesion as found on the skin, the sur- face often being whitish, gray, grayish-yellow, or greenish. Sometimes it is cup-shaped and excavated, particularly when eccentric, with smooth and var- nished bottom and borders sharply defined by a purplish or grayish, rose- colored collarette. (See Plate IX. Fig. 5.) At other times it is less sharply circumscribed, and its surface is prominent, mammillated, and vegetating, or at times pultaceous. The secretion from chancre of the cervix uteri is com- monly scanty or absent. Induration, although undoubtedly present in these cases, is usually difficult to make out by palpation. In the case of a woman suffering from prolapse of the uterus, on whose cervix a chancre was found, Ricord was able to per- ceive, on palpation, a sub-chancrous mass of almost wooden hai’dness, easily defined from the tissues of the surrounding organ. Chancre of the cervix uteri is indolent and painless. It does not indicate its presence by any subjective symptom whatever, and is, therefore, as a gen- eral thing, only discovered by accident. Ganglionic involvement is in some cases difficult to recognize, while in others it is due, when present, to the coexistence of other sores than those on the cervix, a circumstance peculiarly liable to occur. In thirty-four cases of chancre of the cervix uteri observed by Fournier,1 only fifteen were single. In the nineteen remaining cases other ulcers could be seen, thirteen times on the labia, three times on the fourchette, once on the meatus, and twice on the integument about the anus. This circumstance of the multiplicity of lesions may perhaps be explained by the common observation that herpes of the genitals is an almost constant accompaniment of chancre of the cervix uteri. The diagnosis of chancre of the cervix uteri can often be made only after careful examination. It is most likely to be mistaken for chancroid of the same locality, but the latter lesion usually shows more excavation and more decided loss of substance, with undermined and eroded edges surrounded by a reactive inflammatory area. The surface of the chancre, on the other hand, is usually flat and sometimes elevated, without a very sharply defined border. The floor of the chancroid is rough, uneven, eroded, and covered with a yellowish secretion, while that of the chancre is smooth, as if varnished, grayish, or flesh-colored, and exuding a scanty sero-purulent or sanguinolent discharge. The floor of the chancroid is soft, that of the chancre hard. 1 Verbal communication to M. Jullien of later date than the statistics given before. See Jul-