550 SYPHILIS. fire), is often only partial. The patient can only distinguish a part of a single object, or of two objects sees but one. Another only sees the top and bottom of some object in froht of him, the middle part remaining invisible. In some cases of amaurosis, the first effect of treatment is to make the blindness par- tial merely. A case is on record where the perception of one color after another was successively restored. A singular and, as yet, inexplicable intermittence, regular or irregular, has been noted in some cases. In one instance, loss of vision occurred daily between twelve and two, preceded by a severe frontal headache. The attack usually lasted from a quarter to half an hour, and was repeated several times. The prognosis of these eye-troubles depends upon their early recognition and treatment by means of iodide of potassium. When the tissues are secondarily involved (atrophied by pressure, etc.), it is too late to expect much advantage from treatment. Hearing.-—Various disturbances of audition may occur, due to neoplasms situated in the neighborhood of the auditory centres and of the eighth pair of nerves, either along their course or in their intra-bulbar portion. Very frequently the deafness of nervous syphilis is preceded by a period of excita- tion, characterized by auditory liypersesthesia, or by the production of various subjective sensations. It is hardly necessary to say that this ear-trouble of central origin, characterized as it is by want of regularity, its occasional intermittence, and its curability, should be carefully distinguished from that variety of continuous deafness which is brought about by local syphilitic affections of the auditory apparatus. Paralysis of the Motor Nerves of the Eye.—The three motor nerves of the eye, passing as they do for some distance along a bony canal, and in a portion of the cranium peculiarly subject to the late lesions of syphilis, are very apt to be affected by the pressure of some neoplasm, or some inflammatory swelling of the periosteum, at one point or another. In fact, a sudden and unexpected paralysis of these nerves may be said to be an almost sure sign of the existence of syphilitic disease, even when no other exists. The motor oculi, the motor externus, and the patheticus may be weakened or paralyzed either singly or together, one or two branches on the right side being sometimes affected at the same time that other branches on the left side are similarly involved. Also, the degree to which the nerves are affected varies in different cases, and occasionally at different times in the same case, a circumstance which often makes the diagnosis quite difficult. In exam- ining a case, careful analysis must be made of the muscles affected, and then, by referring to the nerves supplying these muscles and collating the facts observed, the lesion may often be located. These, like the other syphilitic affections, are very variable from one time to another, and also, it may be added, are usually very amenable to timely treatment by specific remedies. Hemijolegia.—The hemiplegia of syphilis has been particularly studied by Van Buren and Keyes.1 It is characterized by occurring at an earlier age than other forms of hemiplegia, eighty per cent, of the reported cases having occurred before the age of forty, while forty-six per cent, only of apoplectic hemiplegias occur before the same age. Another characteristic of syphili- tic hemiplegia is the coincidence of fixed and persistent headache, which is an invariable symptom. Other diagnostic points are, the occurrence of the hemiplegia without loss of consciousness, and the concomitant existence of other syphilitic lesions, particularly dilatation of the pupil, showing either in the eye on the hemiplegic side or on the other, without paralysis of the motor oculi. Syphilis of the Nervous System, N. Y. Med. Journ., Nov. 1870.