INCISIONS IN THE TREATMENT OF ULCERS. 287 cesses of granulation and cicatrization. In addition to this, a gentle, continually main- tained, and even pressure has supported the distended and weakened vascular coats, and prevented that venous turgescence which is the cause, in many ulcers, of mal- nutrition of the skin, the sole reason why nature’s ordinary processes of repair are impeded and prevented. In those cases where no varicose condition of the veins exists, but in which an imperfect and feeble nutrition of the skin is the raison d’etre of the ulcer, where nature is unable to heal the slightest scratch, and the most trivial contu- sion rapidly changes into an indolent ulcer, with white, elevated, leathery edges, the bandage, by the warmth and moisture induced by its application, favors the circulation in the capillary vessels, and a determination of blood to the surface. The constant pressure is at once a stimulus to the process of granulation, and to the rapid absorption of the hard edges, the removal of which, in some way, is a necessary antecedent to cicatrization. During the first week or two, and in a few cases for even nearly three weeks, an eruption appears under the bandage, sometimes of few, sometimes of many papules, running very rapidly into suppuration. Each of these indicates an obstruction in one of the cutaneous follicles. The bandage is their best possible treatment, for the moisture softens the indurated secretion, washes it away, or favors the rapid suppura- tion by which nature accomplishes the same object, and, in a very short time, the skin of the leg, subjected to a daily and all-day Turkish bath, becomes entirely clear of all obstruction, and so continues, however long the bandage may be worn. Often ulcerated legs evince other evidences of malnutrition of the skin. Without enumerating or classi- fying these, all I need say is, that all, however diversely named in the terminology of that great science of words, dermatology, are more or less decidedly benefited by the bandage “An apprehension has often been expressed by physicians, of oedema of the foot, as a consequence of applying the elastic bandage as I have directed. Such apprehensions are needless. It is a fact, and illustrates the manner in which this method proves so efficient, that a properly applied bandage of this sort does not produce oedema of the foot. If oedema appears, it is because the bandage is on too tightly ; applied with the degree of closeness I have indicated, it does not stop the circulation in the veins, but, by supporting the walls of the distended tortuous vessels, facilitates the passage of the blood through them, and, in this way, not only does not produce oedema, but rapidly removes that which often, to a certain degree, complicates ulcer of the leg. “Another and very important point is that of wearing the bandage after an ulcer is quite well, as a preventive of its return ; many of my patients do this continually by preference, even when not directed to do so. I advise all whose occupation tends to aggravate a varicose condition of the leg to wear the bandage while standing, both for the palliation of the symptoms of the varicose veins, and as a preventive of the return of ulcer. Other patients are directed to wear the bandage when obliged to be much on the feet, or if there is the slightest irritability or redness at the seat of former ulcera- tion, indicating a possible tendency to breaking down of cicatricial tissue. This is a most important point. The surgeon must bear in mind the tendency of cicatrices to break down from slight causes, and, particularly, where there is a diseased condition of the veins ; and instruct his patient to have his bandage always ready and in good order to be applied at once if needed. The cicatrization of ulcers under the rubber bandage is much firmer and better than, as a rule, I have observed to result from other treat- ment, but, of course, is not exempt from the tendencies and infirmities of all such tissue.” Since the publication of Dr. Martin’s article, in 1877, the elastic bandage has been very generally and successfully used in the treatment of indolent, callous, and varicose ulcers. Incisions.—When ulcers have existed for a long time, and the surrounding tissues have become indurated, the compressed bloodvessels become adherent to the surrounding parts, and are converted into stiff, unyielding channels, through which the blood flows sluggishly. The surrounding tissues, too, be- come tense and unyielding. Now, as ulcers are closed in a great measure by skin borrowed from the surrounding parts, it is evident that any practice