693 BURSITIS. Bursitis. Causation; General Considerations.—Ordinary gout, plumbic gout,1 syphilis, rheumatism, blood-poisoning, scurvy, and perhaps certain forms of Bright’s disease, are undoubted predisposing and, in some cases, exciting causes of this malady. The failure to recognize these underlying conditions accounts for the obstinacy of certain cases under merely local treatment. Wounds, contusions, the recurring pressure and friction incident to certain occupations, excessive muscular exertion, sprains, etc., are among the more common ex- citing causes. In pronouncedly rheumatic or gouty persons, the most trivial use of parts, or even variations of temperature or errors in diet, will suffice to produce a recurrence, if not a primary attack, of bursitis. Bursal enlarge- ments due to rheumatism or gout appear rapidly, and are apt to attack the deep-seated rather than the superficial bursse. The effusion may suddenly leave one bursa, and another may become distended; and again this enlarge- ment may disappear, only for the disease to attack a third sac. Acute Bursitis.—After some traumatism, or perhaps only over-use of a part, a local, tense, more or less distinctly fluctuating swelling will appear, which is tender on pressure, and in certain instances the site of severe lan- cinating pain. The skin at first presents a circumscribed pink flush. This soon spreads to the adjacent integument, and if the inflammation increases— especially should suppuration occur—the skin becomes oedematous and of a dusky, livid appearance, when ulceration soon occurs. The constitutional reaction is often marked, with high temperature, headache—I have even seen delirium—-furred tongue, and confined bowels. The effused fluid, containing floating masses of lymph, consists of serum, which may be of a reddish tinge from a slight admixture of blood. When the bursitis is the result of a blow, the effusion may consist largely of pure blood, which may remain fluid, or, after clotting, may undergo various changes. Acute bursitis terminates by resolution, suppuration, or sloughing. Rheumatism, gout, pysemia, and plumbism are undoubtedly predisposing and sometimes exciting causes. Treatment of Acute Bursitis.—When describing the treatment of the diseases of each bursa, any special indications presented by its nature or locality will be adverted to. At present, the general principles involved in the treatment of any acute bursitis will be considered. The prime essential—since, as we shall see, over-exercise frequently gives rise to effusions into the bursae—is absolute rest of the limb, insured by the recumbent position, and the applica- tion of an appropriate splint. The condition of the bowels and digestion should be investigated, since, if a spreading cellulitis result, the vital powers may be taxed to their utmost. If a purgative be indicated, with a vigorous patient, a mild mercurial followed by a saline will be eminently appropriate. If the patient be in a depressed state of health, a mild laxative will suffice. A simple, bland, unirritating diet should be directed, and, if the patient be of a gouty constitution, something even like the old-fashioned antiphlogistic regimen will be not only appropriate, but imperatively demanded. Pain must be controlled by opium, best combined with diaphoretics. Gout or rheumatism, either demonstrated or suspected on good grounds, indicates the exhibition of appropriate remedies, such as salicylic acid, the salicylates, colchicum, alkalies, etc. In vigorous cases, when the inflammation runs high, free leeching is useful. The use of blood-letting should, however, be limited to the most severe forms of acute bursitis, when a spreading cellulitis of the Guy’s Hosp. Rep., 3d s., vol. xy., 1870, p. 46.