411 HISTORY AND NOMENCLATURE. themselves from much confusion and trouble, as they have also done by never adopting to any extent the terms “ soft sore,” “ soft chancre,” and the like, which the French and English-speaking writers so frequently use. It would have been much better if the adjective soft had never been used in speaking of venereal ulcers, because its general use is to designate the simple venereal ulcer (chancroid), and when, as is sometimes the case, we find sores devoid of induration followed by the subsequent symptoms of syphilis, we lose sight of the fact that it is we, not the lesion, who have erred, and are prone to con- sider the division into simple and syphilitic ulcers a snare and a delusion. Induration of the initial lesion is not a necessity in syphilis; the initial lesion remains syphilis, even if it be soft; but an initial lesion never becomes a simple venereal ulcer, nor does this latter ever become syphilis. The term “ mixed chancre” is, in my opinion, another of those unfortunate names, only too common in the literature of the subject, which serve to con- fuse and bewilder the student of venereal diseases. In studying carefully the recorded cases of inoculation of this type of venereal ulcer, in the papers and larger works of Laroyenne, Rollet, Nodet, and many others, we are struck at once by two facts: (1) that the inoculations were made upon the bearers of the lesion, and not upon healthy persons; and (2) that the experiments were made at times when the chancroid was'at full blast, even supposing, which is by no means certain, the initial induration to have shown itself; and that hence the inoculation could convey nothing but a local ulceration, for a second infection of syphilis does not occur while the first one is active. Hence those auto-inoculations show nothing to prove the conveyal of syphilis by the pus of a chancroid. Nor does confrontation in such cases show any- thing; the cases of Rollet, Nodet, Lindwurm, and others only show that the chancroidal pus can be deposited upon the initial lesion of syphilis, that it will there excite inflammatory and destructive action, and that it is capable of auto-inoculation. To thoroughly set this matter at rest, the pus of such ulcers should be inoculated upon subjects free from syphilis, and care should be taken not to have blood or any syphilitic secretions mixed with the pus; when, if the theory is correct that there is an admixture of virus, such per- sons should, in the first place, develop at the point inoculated a simple vene- real ulcer (chancroid), and in the second place, at the proper time, the initial lesion of syphilis, followed by the subsequent development of the so-called secondary symptoms. Curiously enough, this has been done, but with apparently another object in view than the one of settling the question of mixed chancre. The obser- vation is reported by M. Melchior Robert, in his “ Nouveau Traite des Mala- dies Veneriennes” (Paris, 1861). I give the case here in full, notwithstanding that it is defective in some of its details, because it is both instructive and interesting:— “ Madame J. was the subject of two cancerous ulcerations of the nose, one of the size of a franc piece, seated above the left nostril, the other, which was smaller, in a corre- sponding position on the right side. Both ulcers had begun eighteen months before as pruriginous nodules. Their surfaces were dry and of a grayish hue ; their edges were very hard and salient; the auricular and submaxillary ganglia were not engorged. “ October 14. The larger ulcer was dressed with a layer of charpie which had been saturated with the pus of a chancre [that is, a simple venereal ulcer] from an inocula- tion recently made upon a patient affected with syphilis; this chancre originated in a simple ulceration. “ October 16. The inoculated ulcer suppurates abundantly and is reddened at its cir- cumference. The other one remains dry. “ October 16 to 25. The peripheral inflammation has increased; the ulceration is extending ; the floor of the ulcer is gray, the borders scalloped and undermined ; secre-