GONORRHOEA. 346 the most persistent, and by reason of its long continuance the most annoying, consequence of this form of gonorrhoea. There are, however, some complications which, although they may like- wise appear during an acute attack, are often associated with this catarrhal condition of the urethra, and which are of considerable gravity. These are gonorrhoeal rheumatism, gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, and gonorrhoeal conjunc- tivitis. Complications of Catarrhal Gonorrhoea. Gonorrhoeal Rheumatism, or Urethral Synovitis, as it has been better called, may appear at any time during the existence of a purulent discharge from the urethra. It is much more common in men than in women. It develops suddenly, and is usually accompanied by some abatement of the discharge, more rarely by its entire disappearance. The disease has been ascribed to various causes—metastasis, reflex agency, identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, development of a pre-existing rheumatic diathesis, and, finally, a mild form of septicemic infection. The majority of these hypotheses are untenable. If the disease were due to metastasis, the original affection should disappear, but, as has been said, this is only of exceptional occurrence; if it were a result of reflex action, other forms of genital irritation, balanitis, phimosis, etc., should produce it, but this is not the case. That it is not an evidence of the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis, has been proved by inoculation, and is evident from the fact that it often follows traumatic urethritis; this view is hardly worthy of formal refutation. There is often no discoverable connection between this form of rheumatism and any tendency, hereditary or acquired, to rheumatic disease; my own experience has amply convinced me of this fact. Besides, as will be seen, there are broad distinctions between this disease and ordinary rheumatism. We have remaining, then, the theory of septicaemia, which there are several reasons for favoring. If the joint troubles do I’esult from the absorp- tion into the blood of septic matters arising from pus decomposition, we can understand the otherwise mysterious fact of their much greater frequency in the male than in the female, the length, narrowness and delicacy of the male urethral canal offering admirable opportunities for the retention, decomposi- tion and absorption of purulent matter, as contrasted with the short urethra of the female, or with the thick, resistant, non-absorbent, vaginal mucous membrane. We can also understand the obstinacy of this affection under ordinary anti-rheumatic treatment; its occurrence by preference in those cases in which long-continued suppuration has given the best chances for absorp- tion to take place; its appearance with successive attacks of gonorrhoea, no rheumatic symptoms being noticed in the intervals; its variations from the course of common rheumatism—its predilection for one particular joint, etc.— so that it seems safe to. say that, although not absolutely proved, the septi- cannic theory is probably the correct one. Dr. Wilks believes that gonorrhoeal rheumatism is usually a subacute form of pyaemic inflammation. He considers it analogous to scarlatinal rheumatism, which is often nothing less than severe pyaemia, traceable to purulent infection from the sores in the throat; he also compares it to puerperal rheumatism, and to that form which some- times follows smallpox. In support of the pyaemic origin of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, Wilks refers to two cases in which obscure fatal pyaemia proved to have for its cause a gonorrhoeal inflammation of the urethra, the evidence of this being the discovery of a purulent inflammation of the prostatic plexus of veins while the urethra was full of pus.