SYPHILIS OF THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 515 mucous patch may give rise to considerable swelling and oedema, while at a later period it assumes a hard, gristly appearance, and becomes exceedingly intractable to treatment, sometimes lasting a very long time without change.1 The later syphilitic lesions of the tongue are of two distinct varieties, called by Fournier2 sclerous glossitis and gummatous glossitis. Both varieties are much commoner among men than among women. They generally make their appearance between the fifth and the twelfth year of the syphilitic disease, although now and then they may appear as early as the second, or as late as the fifteenth or even the twentieth year. They usually affect the dorsal surface of the tongue. Sclerous glossitis may be either superficial, characterized by induration in small or large patches, involving only the upper layer of the mucous mem- brane, and having a sombre red tint, with a smooth depapillated surface; or it may be deep (“lingual sclerosis,” “lobulated glossitis”), characterized by cellular hyperplasia extending to the parenchyma of the tongue, and charac- terized by tumefaction, mammillation and lobulation of the dorsal surface of the organ, deep induration of the affected parts, with Assuring, together with various alterations of the mucous membrane covering them.3 Gummatous glossitis occurs in two varieties, according as the mucous mem- brane or the submucous and muscular tissues of the tongue are attacked. The former of these begins in the form of pin-head or pea-sized indurations, situated superficially in the mucous membrane of the tongue, hardly per- ceptible to the sight, but firm to the touch. After a time these little nodules slowly break down and form ulcers, which are peculiarly deep and sharply cut, as if with a small punch. The deep or muscular gumma of the tongue is chiefly distinguished from the former variety by its size (from pea to almond, or even date size), and by the fact that it clearly involves the muscular tissues of the tongue. When it breaks down it leaves a large, deep, well-marked ulcer, usually on the dorsum of the tongue. The diagnosis of late syphilitic glossitis of whatever kind does not usually offer any great difficulties. Chancre, “psoriasis buccalis,” or “lingualis,” smokers’ glossitis, dental glossitis, and tuberculous glossitis, can usually be distinguished without much difficulty. With cancer of the tongue, however, some difficulty may arise. The history, if carefully obtained, will in this case be of considerable value. The following Table is given by Fournier to show the differential diagnosis between ulcerative cancer and ulcerative gumma of the tongue :— Ulcerative Cancer of the Tongue. 1. Affection of mature age, maximum frequency between 50 and 70 years. 2. Predisposing cause, hereditary ten- dency. No syphilitic antecedents except- ing by chance. 3- Frequent antecedents of “lingual psoriasis.” Ulcerative Gumma of the Tongue. 1. May occur at any age after puberty. Generally observed at an earlier age than cancer. 2. Syphilitic antecedents. No antece- dent cancer excepting by chance. 3. No antecedents of “lingual psoriasis.” 1 A representation of this lesion is given in Plate X. Fig. 3. See alsoDebove, Psoriasis Buccal, These de Paris, 1873 ; and Mauriac, Du Psoriasis de la Langue et de la Muqueuse Bueeale, Paris, 1875, for a fuller description of these lesions, especially from a diagnostic point of view. 8 l)es Glossites Tertiaires. Avec trois planches en cliromolithographie. Paris, 1877. An excellent monograph. * The deep form of sclerous glossitis is represented in Plate XIII. Fig. 3.