377 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC GONORRHOEA. further, and will thus prevent it from coming in contact with the inflamed, or congested, or ulcerated surface which is the source of the discharge. In these cases the cure of the stricture, spasmodic or otherwise, by the use of full- sized sounds, is imperatively indicated, all other treatment being worse than useless. Irrigation of the urethra with various medicated liquids has been recom- mended,1 and is a most useful procedure in those few cases in which the foregoing treatment proves ineffectual. A moderate-sized, short, flexible, rub- ber catheter—preferably a “ISTelaton”—with large bevelled eyelets, should be Fig. 320. inserted nearly into the bladder, and then connected with a syringe, like the ordinary “ Mattson ” or “ Davidson ” syringe. A pint or more of the preferred solution, usually one of the astringents above mentioned, may then be passed through the urethra without withdrawing the catheter, the lotion finding its way between the instrument and the walls of the urethra, and making its exit at the meatus. In one or the other of these ways chronic gonorrhoea is always curable. Durham2 advocates irrigation in the treatment of urethritis, and employs a bulbous tube with apertures near the end, which is inserted beyond the inflamed part of the urethra. The injection is then pumped through by means of a Higginson’s syringe.3 Mr. Whitehead, surgeon to the Manchester Royal Infirmary, recommends4 that irri- gation be employed in gonorrhoea to free the urethra from the inflammatory products, which obstinately and intimately adhere to the surface of the urethra, and protect the mucous membrane from the immediate influence of the remedies we endeavor to bring into action, either through the urine medicated by the administration of balsamic drugs, or by the more direct influence of anti-blennorrhagic injections. He describes and figures vulcanized and soft rubber catheters, having a deep spiral groove extending from tip to stem on their outer aspect. This groove is made with a depth double the capacity of the central tube, so that the facilities for the return of the injected fluids are greater than the requirements. The catheter ends in a large hollow bulb, perforated with two large apertures directed backwards. He regards the irrigation as a 'preliminary to treatment, and follows it by the injection of a medicated solution adapted to each par- ticular case. I have had an instrument of this kind made, and have used it a few times, but am inclined to think that the irregularities of its surface, by increasing the pain of its introduction, are so great a disadvantage as to more than counterbalance any possible benefit. Irrigation with hot water has been employed in gleet with apparent advantage.5 I 1 The Prevention of Stricture, by R. Harrison, F.R.C.S. Lancet, May 15, 1880. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1870. 3 See also Jullien, loc. cit., p. 89. 4 British Medical Journal, April 8, 1882. 5 Medical and Surgical Reporter, January 14, 1882.