180 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. almost always causes death ; of eighteen such wounds noticed in Wharton’s table, seventeen died (94.44 per cent.). In civil life, the eyeball is not infre- quently struck by a piece of exploded percussion cap that may produce simply an incised wound of the cornea or sclera, or may penetrate and lodge ; and similar injury may he caused by a bird shot. In numerous cases, rifle bullets and other projectiles of considerable size have entered through small openings in the lids, or even under them, and either have lodged deep in the orbital cavity or have penetrated the base of the skull. In a large number of these cases of gunshot wound of the face (more than one-third during our late war) fracture occurs, most commonly of the infe- rior maxilla ; death results in about one-ninth of the cases, and a very con- siderable proportion of the remainder are followed by great deformity, suffering, paralysis, or interference with mastication. Occasionally the greater part or even the whole of the face is carried away by a large shot or a shell fragment, and very extensive destruction is often produced by suicidal shoot- ing through the mouth, or by the discharge of a pistol held close against the chin. By the passage of a bullet through the superior maxilla, the upper dental arch may be entirely detached from the body of the bone, or, as in a case reported by Longmore as having occurred in the Crimea, the palatine process of one side may be separated and turned at right angles to its fellow. Associated wound of the tongue often occurs, with or without considerable loss of substance, and at times with lodgment of a foreign body (piece of bone, tooth, ball). The primary hemorrhage in these cases may be quite profuse, and a very troublesome secondary bleeding from the lingual artery, or its dorsal or ranine branch, is of common occurrence. Local inflamma- tion, frequently of high grade, is soon developed, and the resulting swelling may become so great as to threaten suffocation. When the anterior part of the organ has been carried away, or when its under surface has been much torn, there is danger of the tongue being so tied down by later cicatricial contraction as to be seriously interfered with in its movements. Balls, even of large size, may lodge in the antrum or in the nasal fossa, or may fix them- selves in the walls of these cavities, frequently remaining there for years, at times causing no trouble, but generally producing more or less slowly pro- gressing necrosis—a process which occasionally secures spontaneous elimina- tion of the foreign body into the nose, mouth, or throat. Complications of Face-Wounds.—Primary, and of greatly more import- ance, secondary hemorrhage from the lingual, facial, or internal maxillary artery, is a frequent complication of wounds of this region, and is the most common cause of a disastrous result: indeed, to this and to the effects of suppuration from hone-disease are clue most of the deaths among these cases. Fractures of the lower jaw, with extensive loss of substance, are at times followed by fibrous union, with consequent impairment of function. True anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulation, and more frequently false anchylosis from the presence of cicatricial bands, may occur, and much in- convenience often follows from adhesion of the tip or side of the tongue to the lower jaw. Paralysis, more or less well marked, results in many cases from injury of the facial nerve, and at times muscular twitchings, which may persist throughout the after-life of the individual. It is in this region espe- cially that in civil practice troublesome j)Owder stains are met with, the unburnt grains lodging beneath the epidermis or the conjunctiva, or in the cornea, and producing, if not early removed, very disagreeable markings, while even if they are taken away, permanent tattooing often remains.