566 SYPHILIS. What is known of these nervous affections should lead to the careful exami- nation of every case of chorea, epilepsy, etc., occurring in children, with the view of ascertaining, if possible, the presence or absence of a syphilitic taint. In this connection, the rules for examining cases of suspected hereditary syphilis given by Mr. Hutchinson,1 are of value. He says that although the teeth taken alone are the most valuable signs in adolescents by which inherited syphilis is recognized, yet there are others of importance which will aid the diagnosis or supply the lack of information from the teeth. These are :— (1) A group of physiognomical peculiarities: (a) sunken bridge of nose; (b) promi- nent frontal eminences ; (c) scars at corners of mouth ; (d) silky softness of skin with absence of color. (2) History of past attack (or evidence of present one) of interstitial keratitis. This disease usually affects both eyes and causes very great defect of sight, lasting over seve- ral months ; then it clears away, leaving the corneae a little cloudy, or it may be per- fectly bright. Afterwards there remains a peculiar steel-gray lustre on the iris. (3) The presence in the choroid of scattered patches of absorption, especially in the peripheral regions. These will often afford conclusive evidence when other symptoms fail. (4) The presence of periosteal nodes on one or on many of the long bones. (5) The occurrence present or past of a peculiar form of pliagedaanic ulceration, some- times erroneously called lupus. This may affect any part, but is often seen in the face or in the throat. Treatment.—The treatment of hereditary syphilis must begin, when pos- sible, with the foetus in utero. The surest means of preserving the product of conception and bringing it to maturity, is in beginning the treatment of the mother at the earliest possible moment, and continuing it vigorously until after the birth of the child. Mercurials are best given by inunction during pregnancy, as we by this means spare the stomach, and avoid the danger of intestinal irritation which may go so far as to cause the abortion which it is our object to prevent. There are some cases, however, in which inunction cannot conveniently be employed, and here mercurials by the mouth, if given with due precaution, are often well borne, and may at least be tried. The infant, when born, should be placed under the best possible hygienic circumstances, and should be nourished at the mother’s breast. jSTo harm can come of this to either. .Bottle-feeding is a very inadequate means of nour- ishment at best, and in the syphilitic infant may determine such failure in health as to cause the disease to take much firmer hold upon the system than it would do otherwise. It seems hardly necessary to say that the syphilitic infant should not be given to a wet-nurse, unless that nurse be herself syphi- litic. This is sometimes done by mistake, in the case of infants not known to be syphilitic, with the gravest consequences—the disease being thus im- ported into a healthy family, and infecting, perhaps, several members.2 For the medical treatment of syphilis in very young infants, baths and inunctions are preferable. The best form of mercurial bath is made by simply dissolving ten grains of powdered corrosive sublimate in about a bucketful of water, employing a small tub just large enough for the child to sit in comfortably. The water, of course, should be warm, and the bath should be given with due precaution against cold. A flannel skirt tied around the infant’s neck and spread over the tub, will prevent any of the 1 Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, fasc. xi. 2 See Fournier, Nourrices et Nourrissons Syphilitiques, Paris, 1878; and R. W. Taylor, The Dangers of the Transmission of Syphilis between Nursing Children and Nurses in Infant Asylums and in Private Practice (Am. Journ. Obstet., vol. viii., Nov. 1875).