PAPULAR SYPHILODERM. 493 an erythematous, but a polymorphous, syphiloderm—erythematous in one place, papular or pustular in another. It is usually in this last aspect that the eruption shows itself in practice. The erythematous syphiloderm, pure and simple, is not by any means as frequently encountered as this mixed eruption made up of various lesions. Finally, the erythematous eruption disappears, the pigmentation is gradu- ally absorbed, and the skin shows no trace of the former disease. The erythematous syphiloderm may recur, in which case it shows itself under a somewhat different aspect, the lesions being larger, fewer in number (sometimes only a dozen in all), more scattered, and of a rather paler tint. When mercury has been given, the erythematous syphiloderm rarely recurs, and when it does so it is only after a long interval. When this form of the erythematous syphiloderm is found upon a patient, the disease may be regarded as of old date. Papular Syphiloderm.1 The papular syphiloderm is characterized by the appearance of small, hard, solid elevations of various size, not containing fluid, and of a coppery or ham-red color, terminating in resolution. It assumes various forms, and may be best described under the following heads: (a) small papular syphiloderm ; (b) large papular syphiloderm; (c) papulo-squamous syphiloderm ; (cl) moist papular syphiloderm (mucous papule); (e) vegetating syphiloderm. Small Papular SyphiloderxM.—This consists of an eruption of single and disseminate, or grouped and more or less confluent, pin-head or small pea- sized, distinctly elevated, hard, rounded, or pointed papules. They give the impression of roughness when the hand is passed over the surface of the skin. The summit of the papules may be smooth or covered with fine scales. The eruption is apt to be complicated by the occurrence of miliary pustules.2 It is at first of a bright-red color, but subsequently assumes a dusky tint. It is a well-marked eruption, usually occupying a considerable area, and is most frequently seen about the shoulders, arms, trunk, and thighs. The small papular syphiloderm may occur either as one of the first general manifestations of syphilis, as early as the third or fourth month after in- fection, or it may not show itself until later, after other lesions have occurred. It is apt to be chronic in its course, and often resists treatment with some stubbornness. Relapses are not infrequent. Other lesions are apt to be present concomitantly, notably large flat papules, moist papules, and small pustules, as mentioned above. The affections for which it may be mistaken are keratosis pilaris, especially when the papules are numerous •arid scattered, pierced by a hair, and in the colored race, and psoriasis punctata. Occasion- ally it is confounded with eczema, but the pruriginous character of the last- mentioned affection, its history, and the absence of concomitant syphilitic symptoms, should prevent the occurrence of such a mistake. Large Papular Syphiloderm.—This is composed, as its name indicates, of lesions larger than those just described, the papules varying from one-half to three centimetres in diameter, being usually roundish in outline, raised above the general surface of the skin, and flat. To the touch they are firm and 1 See R. W. Taylor, Observations on the Papular Syphilkles (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., April, 1870) ; and On a Peculiarity of the Papular Syphilide in the Negro (Ibid., April, 1873). 2 See an excellent representation of the papular syphiloderm, accompanied by miliary pus- tules, in Duhring’s Atlas of Diseases of the Skin, Plate i.