SYPHILIS OF PERIOSTEUM AND BONE. 539 Syphilis of Periosteum and Bone. Lesions of the periosteum and bones are frequent in syphilis. Formerly they were supposed to belong only to the later stages of the disease, but they are now known to occur quite early, in some cases being coincident with the papular syphilodermata.1 Osteocopic Pains.—The name “ osteocopic” (see page 481) has been given to certain painful sensations observed in the bones, not merely in syphilis, but in other affections. However, as they are much the most commonly met with in syphilitic patients, the name has come to be associated exclusively with the idea of syphilis, particularly with the later periods of the disease. These pains occur spontaneously; they are aggravated by pressure and are commonly found in the more superficial bones, such as those of the cranium, the tibia, clavicle, radius and ulna, sternum, etc.; their constancy distinguishes them from the more wandering pains of rheumatism. One of the most marked characteristics of the osteocopic pains of syphilis is that they acquire their maximum intensity toward midnight or one o’clock in the morning. Ricord said that this was due to the warmth of the bed, and asserted that individuals, such as bakers, whose occupation required them to turn day into night, ex- perienced osteocopic pains when they went to bed, that is in the daytime. This explanation, however, does not fit all cases, since in many instances the pains return at a given hour, whether the persons are in bed or not. The pains are at first moderate, but gradually become more severe, and are occasionally so excruciating as to wring cries of pain from the sufferer. In some cases they are the only sign of the disease, but more frequently are merely the indication and symptom of a material affection of the bone. It is not unusual for osteocopic pains to fix themselves at some particular point in a bone, and for periostosis or exostosis to be subsequently observed in the same situation. Although commonly occurring at a late period in the evolution of syphilis, these pains may be felt at any, even a very early stage. From the rheumatic pains of syphilis, the osteocopic pains are distinguished not only by their fixity, as before mentioned, but by being aggravated by pressure. The rheumatic pains are wandering, and are unaffected by pressure. Diffuse Gummatous Infiltration.—This form of syphilitic bone disease2 is characterized by a more or less general deposit of gummy matter, diffused through the deep or superficial portions of the bone substance. This is soon followed by absorptive action, which, when influenced by treatment, may lead to the disappearance of the syphilitic deposit, or, left alone, may result in the death and separation of a sequestrum of bone. Sometimes the affection takes a different line of action, and, instead of causing destruction of a portion of the bone, leads to the throwing out of new osseous tissue. In the body of the bone this process is called osteitis condensans; on the surface it gives rise to osteophytes and exostoses. Productive osteitis is a constant accompaniment of neoplastic action, occur- ring in the immediate neighborhood of the neoplastic points, and as a con- sequence of irritative action of moderate intensity. As a result of this 1 See Mauriac, Memoire sur les Affections Sypliilitiques Precoces du Systeme Osseux. Paris, 1872. 2 I have followed Jullien (Traits Prat, des Mai. Vener.), in this description of the bone le- sions of acquired syphilis.