242 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. symptoms, however, are frequently quite severe; the burning pain, the hypereemia, and the serous effusion are best relieved by applications of unguentum petrolei (cosmoline), or of olive oil with carbolic acid; or by the use of cold, if an extremity is alone involved, or of alkaline lotions, especially of the bicarbonate of sodium; the latter substance, if finely powdered and dusted over the burn, has a remarkable influence in reducing pain. Other soothing dressings, frequently used, are lard and the benzoated ointment of the oxide of zinc. The treatment of shock after burns and scalds should be conducted as in other cases, by the application of artificial warmth, and by the enforcement of rest—the latter being a most important factor in securing reaction; the patient should be disturbed as little as possible, and, as a rule, an anodyne should be given at once. Opium, hydrate of chloral, or morphia may be given by the mouth, or the extract of opium by the rectum ; hypodermic injections of morphia are preferable in most cases. These can be repeated until the pain is controlled. In excessive shock, spirit of ammonia or ether should be given internally, or by hypodermic injection; alcoholic stimulants should be given in only small quantities, by the mouth, and, if the symptoms of depression are not very marked, their exhibition is unnecessary. When reaction has commenced, hot coffee, beef-tea, and milk-punch should be given in small but frequently repeated doses. With decided reaction, milk and beef-tea should be given in larger quantities; as a drink, the former should be combined with lime-water, if the stomach continue irri- table. Thirst, which is usually intense, should be allayed by allowing the patient to suck small pieces of ice, or to sip small quantities of champagne or carbonated water. During the eai’ly dressings of the injured parts, great care should be taken to avoid all unnecessary and prolonged exposure, and consequent chilling; for inflammations and congestions of the internal organs are likely to occur during this period. Constipation is not uncommonly ob- served during the first two or three days following a burn or scald, and, should a laxative enema not produce a sufficient evacuation from the bowels, a mild aperient or effervescent saline should be given. The various conges- tions of internal organs require treatment in accordance with the part affected; as a rule, opium in some form is habitually and daily required to procure sleep, if not to relieve pain. Cerebral hypercemia with delirium is sometimes seen after burns, as a result of vaso-motor paresis; similar symptoms of a mild type have occasionally been observed after exposure to the intense rays of the sun. In the treatment of cerebral hypersemia from such causes, there is no application more potent in counteracting this morbid impression than the continued warm bath, of a temperature of 95° or 100° F., as recommended by Hebra, with the internal use of the bromides in preference to opium. If the general baths are not readily obtained, a sitz-bath or foot-bath can be substituted, simple or medicated, with salt or mustard. Tetanus after burns is nearly always fatal; in such a complication, either morphia, conia, or the hydrate of chloral and the bromides should be administered in sufficiently large doses, and, in more violent cases, ether or chloroform should be given by inhalation. Gastro-intestinal irritation often calls for alleviation. At first, moderate diar- rhoea is often somewhat of a relief, but it may afterwards appear during the exhaustion incident to profuse suppuration, and, if so, it is best combated by opium combined with astringents, and by bismuth and pepsine. Great care should be taken in the administration of food on account of this irritability of the intestinal tract. The Castillon powders are exceedingly beneficial for this purpose ; they are best given in boiled milk, and are composed of pow-