SYPHILIS. 524 lancinating; the tnmor is irregular in shape, grows with great rapidity, and often attains an immense size; and the cord and neighboring ganglia are fre- quently involved. Tubercular disease of the testis comes on about puberty in strumous subjects; the deposit occurs in the epididymis or in the centre of the testis; adhesions with the scrotum and tunica vaginalis occur, and suppuration and ulceration may follow. Evidences of tubercular deposit may often be detected simultaneously in the vesiculpe seminales, by examina- tion with the finger per anum, or in the cord or inguinal ganglia. Chronic orchitis is a very rare affection, and the diagnosis between it and the disease under consideration can usually be made by exclusion.1 In cases of doubtful diagnosis, it is always best to wait, and, if necessary, attempt a cure by spe- cific medication before operating. It is said, on good authority, that many patients suffering from curable syphilitic orchitis have been uselessly castrated by rash operators. Iodide of potassium combined with mercury is the best remedy in syphil- itic orchitis, which will often yield to the “ mixed treatment” when the iodide alone, even in large doses, has failed. With broken-down patients, mercurial inunctions, with iodide of potassium and tonics internally, form the best treatment. The testicle may be supported by a suspensory, and, in case the effusion into the tunica vaginalis is excessive, it may be evacuated by means of a lancet or broad needle. The danger of wounding the swollen testis is too great to admit the use of a trocar, as employed in the ordinary method of tapping for hydrocele.2 Syphilis of the Female Generative Organs.—In addition to the early manifestations of syphilis—chancre, moist papules, mucous patches, etc.—which have been already described as they are found upon the external genitalia of the female and upon the cervix uteri, other later lesions, chiefly tubercular and ulcerative-tubercular in character, are found in these parts. They do not, however, present any peculiarities worthy of special note. Syphilis of the uterus and its annexes, however, requires some special men- tion. With regard to the uterus itself, some doubt exists as to whether syphilis in its later forms has been known to attack this organ. It seems likely, however, that certain cases of so-called cancer of the uterus are nothing more than ulcerated tubercular or gummatous deposits, since, in one or two instances,3 specific treatment has brought about a cure when cancer had been diagnosticated and a fatal result looked for. Lecorche and Lancereaux4 have reported cases where the ovaries, in un- doubtedly syphilitic cases, appeared at the autopsy to have been the seat of diffuse or sclerous syphiloma. These cases showed no clinical sign of the disease found. Gummatous tumors of the ovaries, as in a case reported by Lancereaux, have shown their existence by objective symptoms during life, in the shape of egg-sized enlargements, elongated in the direction of the broad ligament, quite perceptible in the ovarian region, and disappearing under the use of iodide of potassium. Riehet also reports a case where autopsy revealed an undoubted gummatous tumor in the substance of an ovary. 1 Bumstead and Taylor (op. cit., p. 637) give the more prominent symptoms of chronic orchitis. Curling (On the Testis, 2d ed., London) may also he referred to in this connection. 2 Bumstead and Taylor. 3 Cited by Jullien, op. cit., p. 934. 4 Jullien, op. cit., p. 935.