THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 410 which he gave the name of “ mixed chancre.” This lesion he endowed with a dual nature, for he says:— “ Non seulement il y a melange des matieres contagieuses, lesquelles sont des-lors susceptibles de transmettre les deux maladies dont elles proviennent; mais encore il peut y avoir inoculation des lesions syphilitiques par le pus du chancroide, et transfor- mation de ces lesions en autant d’ulceres reinoculables.”1 He believed in an admixture of “virus” by inoculation, which was capable not only of transmitting a chancroid but of producing syphilis. This, to a certain extent, is true, but only as regards the period at which the inocula- tion is made, whether early or late in the duration of the ulcer; for if made early, as the chancroid has no true incubation, the result must and will be a chancroid; if made late, the lesion having changed its character and being no longer chancroidal but syphilitic, the result will be syphilis. Upon this point I shall take occasion to speak further when I come to consider the question of mixed chancre. As far as the French and many American syphilographers are concerned, the matter stands as above stated, and the chancroid, mixed chancre, and chancre—that is, the initial lesion of syphilis—are at the present day accepted facts in venereal medicine. Among English and German writers there would appear to be some dissent to the above views. The former have taken a long time to recognize the existence of the two kinds of ulcer, and even at the present day are inclined to doubt their existence. Mr. Hutchinson, whose name is as respected in this country as in his owm, writes in the Lancet as follows:— “ The virus of syphilis may cause inflammation and result in ulceration and suppu- ration. Pus as produced is contagious, and this is my theory of all soft and non-infect- ing chancres. This pus does not necessarily contain specific germs of syphilis. It may or may not. If it does, the result is a mixed sore, which is very common. Dualists have not, and never had, the slightest basis for their creed. Chancres differ, it is true, but we have no dualily of syphilis.2 The soft sore is not syphilis, nor is it the offspring of a sister virus. The term dualism (if it means anything) I suppose must mean that there are two kinds of specific poison, each producing its specific results and incapable of transmutation or alliance. If my hypothesis is the true one, the soft sore is not the offspring of a specific virus, but is a side result from inflammation caused by it. If it were possible to exterminate all soft sores and destroy the secretions capable of pro- ducing them by contagion, we must expect in a few weeks again to find them repro- duced.” Here then we find the belief that the soft sore, upon which I shall have something to say on a subsequent page, may or may not contain the germs of syphilis; a statement against which too strong a protest cannot be made, if by soft sore we are to understand the simple venereal ulcer or the chancroid of the French writers. Mr. Hutchinson is after all only repeating the teach- ing of the dualists MM. Clerc and Rollet. The Germans, on the other hand, have with much wisdom never adopted the name chancroid, but have always called the non-constitutional ulcer “ schanker,” and what other nations call chancre they call “ initial sclerose,” or, better yet, “ initial lasion.” They accept the existence of two kinds of venereal ulcer, which differ in their nature, and which, in their purity, have nothing in common. By rejecting the name “chancroid,” they have saved 1 Op. cit., p. 36. 2 No dualist, as far as I know, has ever contended that we have ; on the contrary, dualists candidly admit that there is hut one syphilis, and that the initial lesion is its beginning. They do, however, claim that there are two kinds of ulcer : the one syphilis ; the other not.