TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 369 to them here for the purpose of finally dismissing the subject. Iodoform, tannin, acetate of lead, carbolic acid, oil of eucalyptus, and many other drugs mixed with cacao butter, in proper proportions, have been recom- mended. I wrote not very long since that in my hands they had been so inferior to injections in their ability to control the discharge, had so often, even when carefully adapted to the acuteness of the symptoms, given rise to severe pain and troublesome chordee, and were besides so comparatively ex- pensive, that I had entirely discarded them. Since then I have been led by reading several articles eulogistic of their merits,1 to give them another limited trial, but with precisely similar results, and if I ever do return to them in the treatment of urethritis, it will be only on evidence furnished by reliable witnesses after observation of a large number of cases. Urethral Injections in Early Stage.-—To return to the use of injections: —When the surgeon has decided to begin their employment, because of the inflammation having passed its climax,2 he should order for the patient a blunt-pointed, hard-rubber, urethral syringe large enough to hold three flui- drachms. The American Rubber Comb Co.’s syringe Ho. 0, and the Goodyear syringe Uo. 1 c, are those which I prefer. At this stage the disease, al- though often extending a few inches backward, has reached its greatest in- tensity at or near the fossa navicularis, a point easily reached by the nozzle of an ordinary syringe, which acts as a mechanical irritant and frequently serves to increase or perpetuate the inflammatory action. Glass syringes are so apt to be poorly made, unequal in calibre at different parts of the cylinder, or with the piston insufficiently wadded, that for these reasons, apart from the danger of breaking them, they should be avoided. The other apparatuses sold for this purpose, the India-rubber bulbs with long glass or rubber nozzles, the soft rubber tubes, etc., are even more objectionable.3 Having procured his syringe, the patient should be taught how to use it, and, although it gives a little more trouble, it is always well personally to inspect this procedure at least once. I have seen many cases in which it seemed impossible to obtain control over the disease and to limit the dis- charge, where the whole difficulty lay in the faulty use of the syringe. In using the injection, the patient should sit upon the edge of a hard chair, the buttocks projecting slightly over it, the feet separated, and the thighs re- laxed. In this way all pressure or tension upon the perineal muscles is removed, and the injected fluid finds its way backwards to a sufficient depth. In those cases in which the disease is clearly localized anteriorly, or in which any injection reaching the prostatic urethra or the neck of the bladder, 1 Mr. W. Watson Cheyne (British Medical Journal, July 24, 1880) reports extraordinarily favorable results from a so-called “ antiseptic treatment” of gonorrhoea, his special plan consist- ing in the introduction of soluble bougies made of iodoform, eucalyptus, and cacao butter. His results, however, do not appear to have been confirmed by other observers. 2 Zeissl usually begins the use of injections during the acute stage, while the pains are very severe, and employs permanganate of potassium, two centigrammes in two ounces of distilled water. He cautions against the introduction of air, which he says gives rise to pain. (Med. Times and Gazette, Feb. 14, 1880.) 3 Mr. Balmanno Squire describes very minutely (Annales de Dermatologie et de Sypliili- graphie, Avril 25, 1882) a new form of urethral syringe, which consists of an elliptical body made of rubber, with inflexible sides united by an interposed elastic strip which permits these sides to be accurately approximated. From the body a short rubber tube extends, into the end of which another small glass tube or nozzle is inserted. Mr. Squire claims that the theoretical require- ments of a urethral syringe are all contained in this one, viz., possibility of manipulating with one hand; uniform movement without jumps or sudden variation of pressure; durability; portability ; capacity just sufficient for the urethra ; ability to retain liquid until used, so that a quantity sufficient for one injection may always be carried ; and finally cheapness. As far as it is possible to judge from a description and a wood-cut, this syringe seems inferior to several similar devices made and sold in America. VOL. II.—24