SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 642 thus produced should be then healed by the use of soothing ointments, when the process may be repeated. Iodine, in solution in glycerine with iodide of potassium (equal parts), painted over the affected regions with a brush, as freely and often as the re- sulting pain and inflammation will permit. Emplastrum mercuriale, spread upon linen and worn for twenty-four hours over the affected parts, and reappfied as often as the skin will allow. Pyrogallic acid, 3j-ij to lard 5j, spread upon cloth and worn for three days and nights, the plasters being renewed twice a day. When the freely suppurating surfaces which are thus produced have healed, the acid may again be used until healthy tissue is obtained. Scarification and the curette have been recommended as efficacious in some cases. Often, with all these remedies at our disposal, and after their repeated trial, in turn, the disease resists our attacks, and may continue indefinitely in spite of them. Lupus Vulgaris. Lupus vulgaris, or simply Lupus, is a chronic destructive affection of the skin and the neighboring portions of the mucous membrane, characterized by the presence of nodular masses, which are embedded in the structure of those parts, and which soften, ulcerate, and leave scar tissue behind them. The process begins with the development of minute tubercles, of a brownish or dull red color, which occur at different depths below the surface, either singly or in groups, and which give the skin a spotted or dotted appearance. This, the primary form of efflorescence, very slowly increases in size, until it attains that of a small shot or large pea, and approaches the surface, causing an elevation and thinning of the epidermis above it. It is then to be felt as an elastic nodule, more or less deeply seated in the skin, and projecting above it. This is Lupus prominens or Lupus tubercidosus. Several contiguous no- dules may continue to increase in size, blend with one another, and thus form much larger elevations of the same dull-red color and elastic feel, and of the size of a large pea or bullet {Lupus nod.osus, Lupus tumidus). Having reached this, their highest stage of development, the nodules may remain unchanged for weeks or months, but sooner or later undergo involution. This is effected in two ways: (1) The tubercle becomes less tense at its centre, or tip, and sinks down, while the smooth and shining epidermis is converted into yellowish- white, or darker colored scales-—Lupus exfoliativus. The depression or soft- ening (fatty degeneration) takes place very slowly, until, after weeks or months, the tubercle sinks below the level of the skin, the scales disappear, and finally a glistening flattened scar remains to mark the seat of the primary tubercle. (2) By the other process, the softening of the nodule takes place throughout its mass, or suppuration ensues; the protecting epidermis with its scales and crusts is cast oft*, and a free ulcerating surface is established— Lupus exulcerans. Such ulcers are generally round, with slightly elevated margins, and a red vascular base. They crust over readily with the purulent and other secretions of the part, and are capable of healing by healthy gran- ulations and scar formation. Occasionally, the granulations are exuberant, forming papillary elevations, which may terminate in permanent, wart-like excrescences—Lupus hypertrophicus, Lupus verrucosus. These two processes, exfoliation and ulceration, may affect the same tubercles at various times, or may involve different parts of one tubercle at the same time. In all cases of long standing, we have every stage of evolution and involution going on simultaneously, so that the whole process may be studied at once. Thus, by the constant development of new nodules by the side of the earlier efflores-