45 OPEN TREATMENT. moved. The suffering which used to be caused by the dressing of wounds after opera- tions is got rid of. In many cases I do not touch the wound, except for the purpose of removing the sutures, from the day of the operation We decidedly have more frequent union by first intention than when we were in the habit of applying dressings to the wound “If suppuration takes place, an early and free vent should be afforded to the pus, by cutting the stitches and opening the wound; and care should be taken to keep the wound clean Large open wounds—that is, where portions of the skin have been removed, so that the edges cannot be approximated—are in our hospital [Cambridge], not unfrequently, left exposed to the air, without any covering. A dry crust or scab forms upon them, beneath which cicatrization goes on, and we find that the healing often proceeds more quickly in this way than when the part is kept moist and the products of the wound are continually flowing away into the poultices or dress- ings.”1 Kronlein tells us, after analyzing six thousand eases, that the open method has proved superior to all others, and demonstrates that the mortality of am- putations, which by former methods had been 51 per cent., fell by the open treatment of wounds to 20 per cent. ; and Rose, who is the present director of the Clinique at Zurich, follows Kronlein. He exposes all his wounds to a free current of air, which is maintained by means of open doors and windows. He regards stitches and bandages of all kinds as interferences to be avoided, and trusts to absolute rest of the part, after careful arrest of bleeding ; to provi- sion for thorough drainage; and to scrupulous cleanliness. The wounded limb in an amputation is kept in one position, on a cushion so protected by mackintosh that the discharges may easily escape into a vessel placed to receive them. Some of the practitioners of this system are somewhat inconsistent, since they advocate the frequent ablution of the exposed wound with carbo- lized water, or its protection by pouring over it the balsam of Peru ; and C. Thiersch adds that whether the wound lies quite free, or is covered with a piece of oiled silk, or with a water compress, cold or warm, does not appear to be of importance, if only free escape of the secretions is not prevented thereby ; we may also, he says, add irrigation without changing the character of the dressing, as practised by Bardeleben, and the permanent water-bath may also be of use. Thiersch moreover adds that in cases of compound fracture and gunshot injury—since the free escape of secretions is one of the most important points in their treatment—-wounds may he enlarged by incisions, abscesses opened, counter-openings made, and even free openings effected into wounded joints, or resections practised. The conclusions of the Moscow committee are also favorable to the practice, and may be condensed as follows: The essential feature of treatment by aeration, as this committee calls it, consists in avoiding all local appliances for excluding air, and in placing wounds in conditions favorable for free and direct contact with the atmosphere. Lint and other such substances should never be used. Repair by primary union should always be sought when possible. Catgut ligatures and metallic sutures should be employed. The advocates of this system believe that the “Lister dressings” are injurious, but that the antiseptics employed counteract the baneful effects of the coverings. Summary.—The results of this open treatment are evidently satisfactory, and, judged by the essential points to which attention has been directed the open treatment of wounds may be advocated ; for it includes careful adapta- tion of parts after arrest of all bleeding, and due provision for thorough 1 British Medical Journal, Oct. 27, 1860.