117 ARROW WOUNDS. the other hand are passed backwards and forwards over the rib until the point of greatest impact is determined, this, together with the direction in which the shaft points, fixing the position of the head. The rib is then to be tre- phined at this point. If an intercostal artery has been wounded, the applica- tion of the actual cautery is the most convenient means for arresting the bleeding: I have used a bent nail, heated, both in intercostal wounds and wounds of the inferior dental artery. Or the whole rib may be encircled by a ligature passed around it with a bent probe, or with a Gibson’s aneurismal needle, or with the blunt needle of the chain saw. An arrow transfixing both lungs, or the heart, would, if it lodged, necessarily cause immediate death. If it passed out at once, as it sometimes does through the chest of the buffalo, the patient might speedily recover. In wounds of the chest, if the pleura should fill with blood, this should be removed by the aspirator, if possible. If the blood is clotted, it might per- haps be rendered fluid by the injection of a solution of pepsine, as in the case of vesical coagula. Pus in the pleural cavity always requires the use of the aspirator, but empyema is not a common result of arrow wounds. Arrow Wounds of the Abdomen and Pelvis.—Arrow wounds of the abdomen are generally fatal. Hot only is there a liability to peritonitis from fecal extravasation, but the wound is apt to be immediately fatal from hemorrhage. But all wounds of the abdominal cavity are not followed by death. The table on page 107 shows two recoveries in twenty cases, a mortality of 90 per cent. In a very interesting case under the care of Surgeon Forwood, U. S. Army, and described in Circular Ho. 3, S. G. O., 1871, a large calculus which had formed upon an iron arrow head was removed from the bladder of an Indian. This man had been shot in the buttock while mounted, and at close range. The shaft of the arrow had been withdrawn, and the head was left behind in the bladder. The man made a good recovery. The treatment of arrow wounds of the abdomen consists in the removal of the missile; the checking of bleeding, by torsion or otherwise; the suturing the intestine, if wounded ; the thorough cleansing of the part from excre- mentitious matters; and the enforcement of rest. An incision should be made sufficiently large to admit the finger, and when the position of the arrow head has been determined, it is to be seized with forceps, and removed. If the shaft has been plucked away, the chance of finding the head is very slight; but the attempt should be nevertheless made, and if fecal matter is found in the cavity of the abdomen, no hesitation should be felt in laying this open and searching thoroughly for the foreign body. Bleeding points should then be twisted, and the intestine, if wounded, sewTed up. Very fine carbolized catgut should be employed for this purpose, and it is of compara- tively little importance what particular form of suture is used, so that the operation is finished with as short an exposure to the air as possible. The parts, having been cleansed with water containing a little salt and egg serum, are to be carefully returned, and then the incision in the abdominal walls is to be secured by figui'e-of-eight sutures passing through the muscles as well as through the integument. Opium should be given to stupefaction, and the patient kept under its influence for several days, or until the pulse loses the characteristics of peritoneal inflammation. Any one who has used opium in this way will agree with me, I think, that it possesses, over and above its powder of enforcing rest, a specific power of preventing or subduing perito- nitis. If airy outward application is to be made, I should prefer moist heat, applied by means of large bran poultices. But it must be remembered that, unless frequently renewed, and kept very hot (about 110° F.)—yet not too hot, for the patient, being nearly insensible, may easily be burned—they wall