SYPHILIS OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE; GUMMATOUS TUMORS. 511 softens, and is finally perforated. The gumma may remain in a fluctuating condition for some time without opening. When it does open, if this is early, the escaping fluid is clear, viscid, and gummy. If the tumor does not open for a long time, the fluid discharged is more apt to be sanious and fetid, or purulent. The opening is smaller than the cavity of the abscess formed, and the bottom of the tumor retains its firmness and induration—at times an im- portant point in diagnosis.1 The ulcer succeeding the gummatous tumor is roundish, excavated, and surrounded by a dusky red areola. When a number of tumors have been grouped together or agglomerated, the resulting ulcers may unite, forming a large and very irregular sore, with numerous perforations, the openings of deeper gummata. The floor of the gummatous ulcer is generally covered with a peculiar, whitish, putrid layer of debris of characteristic appearance. When a gnmma heals, it leaves behind a roundish, hollowed, white cica- trix, surrounded by an areola of pigment, which gradually disappears. In addition to these general characteristics of gummata, they possess special peculiarities dependent upon the locality in which they occur, and which will be noted in describing the lesions of the various organs. Occasionally the growth of gummata may cause pressure upon some important part, and thus arouse functional disturbance. Gummata are not infrequently accompanied by other syphilitic manifesta- tions, such as the severer syphilodermata; and not infrequently by lesions of the bones and viscera—exostoses, syphilitic sarcocele, etc. The commonest localities for the occurrence of gummata are the face and scalp, the external surface of the limbs, the posterior portion of the shoulder, the attachment of the sterno-mastoid to the sternum, various parts of the mouth, the isthmus of the fauces, and, among the viscera, the testicles and the mammae. Though sometimes single, gummata are more frequently found in groups. They may indeed be very numerous, more than 150 lesions having been counted on a single patient. The gumma is, as has been said, a late lesion, never occurring previous to the sixth month, and sometimes not for years after the initial lesion. Cases have been reported where the first recognized symptom of hereditary syphilis has been the appearance of a gumma thirty years after the patient’s birth. The course of the gumma is naturally very slow; it may remain stationary for months, at any period of its development. ISTo other syphilitic lesion is so rapidly influenced and modified by treatment. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of gummata sometimes offers considerable diffi- culty, especially when the tumors are deeply seated ; treatment is in doubtful cases often the only touchstone, and will decide the question with certainty. When the gumma is situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or in the submucous cellular tissue of the buccal cavity or upper part of the pharynx, the objective signs usually suffice to establish the diagnosis. When concomi- tant syphilitic symptoms are present, it is easy to make out the character of the lesion. When these are absent, and above all when the gumma is soli- tary, some difficulty may be met with. The not yet softened gumma may be recognized by its rounded form, its firmness, its invariably moderate size, and its indolence. The seat of the tumor, its mobility, and the absence of ganglionic involvement, must also be taken into account. While these char- acteristics are met with in other than syphilitic tumors, they are rarely so well marked. ' See illustration of gumma of the penis, PI. XIII. Fig. 3.