THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. 74 Application of the Aseptic Method to Operations. Let us now suppose that an operation is about to be performed with aseptic precautions. The following materials will be necessary :— (1) One to twenty and one to forty watery solutions of carbolic acid ; (2) A trough containing the instruments, which are soaking in the 1-20 carbolic lotion ; (3) Sponges; (4) Basins containing 1-40 carbolic lotion in which to wash the sponges; (5) Vessel containing 1-40 carbolic lotion, for use during the operation, for the repuri- fication of hands or instruments; (6) Towels soaked in 1-20 carbolic lotion. Mackintoshes. (7) A largish piece of muslin soaking in 1-40 carbolic lotion, and termed the “ guard;” (8) A basin containing 1-40 carbolic lotion, in which a piece of protective and loose gauze are soaking ; (9) A steam spray apparatus ; (10) A vessel containing 1-20 carbolic lotion, for the purification of the skin of the patient and of the operator ; (11) Catgut; (12) Drainage-tubes of various size ; (13) Horse-liair for drains and stitches ; (14) Carbolized silk for stitches ; (15) Silver wire for stitches; (IG) Lead buttons for “ button stitches;” (17) Loose gauze ; (18) Gauze dressing; (19) Bandages, muslin, and gauze; (20) Elastic bandage; (21) Safety pins. A. B—No water must be used. The patient having been placed on the table, mackintoshes are arranged so as to prevent soiling of the clothes, and around the part to be operated on, and over the clothes and mackintoshes in the vicinity, towels soaked in 1-20 carbolic lotion are fixed. The object of these is that, should the surgeon lay down any instruments which he is using, he may lay them down on a pure basis, and may be sui'e that they will not take up any septic material from the place where they lie, while at the same time, should any of the clothes come in contact with the wound, it is protected from harm by having this pure layer interposed. The skin of the patient and that of the operator hav- ing been purified in the manner already described, a spray of carbolic acid is made to play on the part from a suitable distance (about six feet). If the spray be too near, it is unnecessarily wetting, while it is so narrow that the hand of the operator and his assistant will be constantly getting out of it. The spray is, on the other hand, perfectly efficient at a considerable distance; it is not wetting; and there is plenty of room for working in it. A basin containing 1-40 carbolic lotion is placed between the wound and the operator, and in this he can repurify his hands or his instruments should they have been contaminated with septic dust, either' from the clothes, or by holding them outside the spray. All instruments, sponges, etc., must be handed into the spray, because every time that the operator has to reach his hand out of the spray, it comes in contact with septic dust, and must be re- purified in the carbolic lotion before being introduced again into the wound. If the spray is to be used at all, these precautions are necessary. There can be no doubt that the spray is the least essential of all the details