245 TREATMENT OP BURNS AND SCALDS. parts of linseed oil and lime-water: it is certainly a very valuable and an eminently soothing dressing; but its very offensive odor and the greasy look of the patient’s clothing and bedding which it produces, have deterred many from employing it. The addition to this preparation of a small amount of the oil of turpentine, is said to greatly enhance its efficacy. Carron oil was used very extensively in the wards of the Pennsylvania Hospital until the carbolized oils were sub- stituted for it several years since. Many surgeons have advocated the use of white lead as a primary dressing, and refer in the most favorable manner to the application of carbonate of lead ground in linseed oil: the white lead paint is spread thickly upon lint, and laid over the denuded or burned sur- faces, and it would seem from the reports of the cases in which it has been employed, that no symptoms arose indicating the absorption of lead. A mixture of collodion and castor oil has been recommended by Savage. If painted over the surface several times a day, this forms an excellent coating, and, although painful upon the first application, is said to be afterward exceed- ingly grateful,protecting the parts from the air more thoroughly than anything else. Iodoform, with the extract of conium, spermaceti, and carbolic acid, is said to act as a decided sedative, at once lessening pain, inflammation, and suppuration. The ointment should be spread on linen, and applied over the surface : the same objection which exists to the use of other ointments holds good in this case, namely, that the ointment is frequently separated by the heat of the parts, and that the cloths become dry, and stick along the edges of the inflamed cuticle, and, during their removal, give rise to great pain. The following formula is recommended by Dr. Bedford Brown, of Alexandria, Virginia: R. Iodoformi 3\b unguent- cetacei sj, extracti conii 5jss, acidi carbolici gtt. x.-M. Sig.—Spread on linen. Dr. Shrady, of Hew York, has advocated a paste made up of gum Arabic liij, tragacanth |j, cai’bolized water (1 to 60) Oj, and molasses ffiij, which is applied with a large camel’s hair brush; three or four applications are sufficient, it is said, to allay all the pain of these cases. The use of stimulating applications in burns and scalds is frequently very beneficial, and is of great antiquity, Hippocrates having used an ointment made of lard, resin, and bitumen. Mr. Kentish recommended an ointment, which has since borne his name, composed of resin ointment and the oil of turpentine: this preparation, with slight modi- fications, is still in frequent use. Lard, which can be so readily obtained, is at once a most soothing and agreeable dressing; the salt which it always contains can readily be removed by washing in cold water. It should be applied frequently and liberally. A solution of the nitrate of silver, made in the proportion of three or four grains to the fluid ounce of water, was highly recommended by the late Mr. iSkey; it causes when first applied considerable pain, but this is only mo- mentary ; there is subsequently entire relief from suffering, and crusts of a brownish-black color soon form upon the denuded surfaces. Dr. Gr. F. Waters, of Boston, has used with great success the dry bicarbo- nate of sodium as a local application to burns and scalds. The soda should be sprinkled over the injured part, and over this a wet cloth should be ap- plied; under this plan of treatment the pain is said to be “almost immediately relieved, and the healing process goes on rapidly.”1 Finely-powdered wood charcoal, if applied at once to burned or scalded surfaces, is said to be not only grateful to the patient, but to afford a speedy remedy, relieving pain as if by magic, and preventing bad odors. In a large iron-mining and smelting Medical Record, vol. 12, p. 672, 1877.