ABSCESSES. 268 mation in the knee followed the opening of an abscess in the fr6nt of the lower third of the thigh. In none of these instances had disease of the joint been previously suspected. Treatment of Abscesses. It may be laid down as a general rule that pus is to be removed as soon as it has formed. In cases of acute abscess, this rule may be considered very nearly absolute. We have now at our disposal the means by which the serious complications that were formerly met with as the result of putrefactive changes may be avoided, and the withdrawal of pus has a very beneficial effect in abating the severity of acute inflammatory processes. There are indeed many occasions on which the surgeon must use every ex- pedient to detect matter at the earliest moment of its formation, in order that it may be evacuated without delay. This practice must be strictly followed in abscesses beneath strong fasciae, especially when joints, tendons and their sheaths, large bloodvessels, or other important structures are near at hand, or when pus is likely to burrow widely. Thus, in the ham, for example, if mat- ter is allowed to collect beneath the expansion of the fascia lata by which this space is inclosed, it may find its way into the knee-joint, or lead to the destruc- tion of the periosteum, and consequent necrosis, of the femur; or it may track its way widely upwards into the thigh and downwards into the calf. Similarly, in the neck, pus, if it be not at once let out, may travel into the anterior mediastinum, or the armpit; or may possibly even lead to perfora- tion of the carotid artery or the jugular vein; or may burrow widely between the muscular planes, or in the course of the deep vessels. The same practice of removing matter early is called for, also, when suppuration occurs in the neighborhood of the rectum or urethra, in the mammary gland, and in glands with firm capsules, as the parotid, the prostate, and the testis; or when the nutrition of bone is threatened, as in suppuration beneath the pericranium, or beneath the periosteum of the long bones. Especially is this the case in the form of suppuration termed subperiosteal abscess, or diffuse periostitis, in which, in children, the whole periosteum may be detached from the shaft of a bone in the course of some twenty-four or thirty-six hours. In these, and in a number of other like instances, the whole course of the case turns on the early detection and evacuation of any matter that has formed. The question whether chronic abscesses are to be opened, is one which does not admit of a simple answer, either for or against the practice; for chronic abscesses form under very different conditions in different cases, and, in deciding upon their treatment, these conditions have to be taken into account. If an abscess be of the kind termed spontaneous, that is unconnected with disease of the spine, the large joints, the kidney, or other parts of similar importance, it may, with due precautions, be evacuated at once. But if it results from such diseases as those just mentioned: if, for example, it has followed disease of the spine, there exists much difference of opinion as to the treatment that should be pursued. Many authorities leave the abscess to point and discharge itself, on the ground that while serious complications have often followed active interference, they are rarely seen when abscesses are left to spontaneous evacuation. The latter observation no doubt is true. But, on the other hand, let us remember that it is one of the characteristics of these abscesses that, though they may steadily increase in size, they show but little tendency to point, and that to leave them is to consign the patient to a long period of irk- some delay, and also, it may be added, to expose him to the possible occur- rence of some of the accidents that will presently be mentioned. As to the danger incurred by active interference, although the results of opening large