246 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. company in Styria, cases of burn are treated very successfully, it is reported, in the following manner:— The wound is first cleansed (without opening the blisters), then disinfected with a two per cent, solution of carbolic acid, and covered with a thick furniture varnish, prepared from linseed and litharge, in which five per cent, of salicylic acid has been dissolved by warming. The varnish is allowed to dry, and another coat applied ; over this is placed a layer of Bruns’s cotton, about two-thirds of a centimetre in thickness. The wound seldom suppurates, generally healing under the varnish, which is finally removed as a dry pellicle, no change in the dressing having been necessary. Should, however, the occurrence of suppuration be threatened by the setting in of fever, or by the occurrence of pain, the dressing is removed from the affected locality ; if the spot be not over five centimetres in diameter, nothing further is done but to strew the moist surface with dry salicylic acid powder; if larger, an opening is cut in the dressing ; the salicylic acid is applied as before, and it is then covered with a fresh layer of cotton. The scars become, by this method, entirely smooth and white, and are not hypertrophied.1 In burns and scalds of the first or second degree, which involve a large extent of surface, the continuous tepid bath, of a temperature of from 90° to 100° F., has been recommended by Hebra. This form of treatment, under which rapid recoveries are reported, can be kept up for days or even weeks at a time, if required. If the antiseptic method, of treatment be used in burns and scalds, the parts are first thoroughly disinfected, and then entirely covered by Lister’s boracic acid, which is spread on linen, and then completely enveloped in the carbolized gauze or in salicylic cotton; under this form of treatment, the devitalized parts, it is said, not only separate most satis- factorily, but the resulting cicatrix, instead of assuming the characters com- monly observed in such tissue, remains smooth and elastic, and is not apt to undergo contraction. Treatment of Burns from Corrosive Acids, Caustic Alkalies, etc. The action of corrosive acids and caustic alkalies upon the tissues is simi- lar to that occasioned by the application of intense heat, causing local destruction, which is repaired by granulation, as in an ordinary ulceration of the surface, after the separation of a slough. The corrosive or mineral adds which most frequently occasion burns are the sulphuric, the nitric, and the muriatic. In chemical works and in other places where these acids are in common use, burns of the surface are of not infrequent occurrence, and it is the experience of workmen so injured that, in the immediate treatment of such an injury, the application of water is to be avoided, as it causes, when mixed with these acids, a great and sudden elevation of temperature. The proper plan is to instantly apply whiting, or levigated chalk, which causes brisk effervescence and at once neutralizes the acid ; after which the mixture may be washed off' with water. If this be done promptly, no burn will result, or there may be mere erythematous redness, with a slight sense of tingling or smarting. Those acid salts which, in solution, are so much used in the arts—the chlorides of zinc and of tin—are occasionally spilled upon the skin, when the resulting injuries should be treated as though they were burns of the acid of which the zinc or the tin forms the base, namely, muri- atic. Should any of these substances be splashed into the eye, the organ should be well bathed with lime-water, and the subsequent irritation treated in the usual manner. Occasionally these caustic acids or their aeid salts are 1 Loudon Medical Record.