502 SYPHILIS. tubercles, the result being an extensive excavation, involving at times the whole affected surface. Sot infrequently the process assumes a serpiginous course, the ulceration being usually accompanied by a certain amount of simultaneous cicatrization, and it is then apt to be disfiguring in its results. It is often encountered on the back, and is generally obstinate. (Plate XII.) Vegetating Form.—Papillary formations at times spring up from the sur- face of ulcerating syphilitic tubercles, forming wart-like and cauliflower excrescences, accompanied by a yellowish, puriform, offensive secretion—the syphilis cutanea papillomatosa. Many cases of the so-called framboesia of older writers were aggravated instances of this variety of disease. The same form of growth may occur with the gummatous ulcer. The tubercular syphiloderm is to be diagnosed from lupus vulgaris, from lepra, and from carcinoma. It is most liable to be confounded with lupus vulgaris. The tubercles of syphilis, however, are firmer, more deeply seated, and have a history of more rapid development. Lupus, moreover, appears usually first in childhood, while the tubercular syphiloderm is rarely seen before adult or middle age. The Gummatous Syphiloderm. Gummata of the integument are usually situated primarily in the sub- cutaneous connective tissue, and only subsequently make their appearance in the true skin. But although denied by some writers, yet true gummatous infiltration of the skin does unquestionably occur, and in a form which is easily to be distinguished clinically from the tubercular syphiloderm, with which it is most apt to be confounded. The gumma of the skin appears first as a more or less circumscribed for- mation, in the form of a slightly raised, rounded, or flat tumor, variable as to Fig. 330. size, and tending to break down into an ulcer. More commonly, however, it begins in the subcutaneous connective tissue, and is felt as a small-pea sized, ill-defined, painless body, which is felt to be beneath the skin. The latter is