57 COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. Secondary Hemorrhage.—This is the form of bleeding which occurs after the lapse of two or tlii’ee days. It may occasionally he due to the existence of the hemorrhagic diathesis; hut is more commonly owing to some ulcer- ation of the vessel in the line of ligation, before the vessel itself has been closed by natural processes; to some sloughing of the end of the divided artery or vein, with or without sloughing of the wound itself; to some im- perfection in the means employed for the arrest of the primary bleeding; or to the accidental separation of a ligature. When it takes place in a wound that appears to be healthy, and in which the reparative process seems to have progressed in a satisfactory manner, the hemorrhage will probably he found to have come from a vessel that has been imperfectly secured, or the end of which has been irreparably injured ; and under these circumstances, if the bleeding be profuse, and evidently from a large artery, the wound must he re-opened, and the bleeding orifice sought for and dealt with as in the original wound. But if, on the other hand, the bleeding is not severe, and the probabilities of the case suggest that the vessel is not large, the injured limb should be raised, and moderate pressure applied ; for by such means there will be a good prospect of a successful issue being obtained. Should a recurrence of the bleeding, however, occur, and the effects of loss of blood show themselves, the wound must be re-opened, and the bleeding vessel secured. When the bleeding comes from a vessel which has sloughed with the surrounding tissues, it is better practice to secure the vessel at a distance from the wound. When, however, the bleeding takes place in a case in which an artery has been tied in its continuity, the surgeon should delay re-opening the wound unless the evidence be strong that the blood comes from the supplying or afferent trunk; since experience has fairly taught us that, in a large number of these cases, the blood comes from the lower or distal orifice of the ligatured vessel, and that, under such circum- stances, it may be readily arrested by the elevation of the limb and well applied pressure. In all cases, however, when the bleeding is recurrent and persistent, the wounded vessel should be looked for, and secured either at the seat of bleeding, or, when this is either difficult or dangerous, at a higher point. Pain.—There is no effect of a wound or operation which varies more in degree than pain. In one case the subject of a simple wound will suffer much pain, while another individual with a severe wound will experience but little. Persons vary greatly in regard to nervous susceptibility; never- theless pain is under all circumstances a serious symptom, and a great evil; for it tends to depress the moral and physical forces of the strongest patient, and to exhaust even to death the feeble powers of the fragile. I am convinced that I have known pain to kill. In all wounds, therefore, operative or otherwise, it is important that pain should be guarded against, and for this object surgeons can do much by care and forethought. The wounded parts should be well protected, and so placed as to give rise to the least inconvenience or distress; the dressings, likewise, should be so regulated as to give comfort. In most wounds, and after most operations, some pain will be necessarily experienced, but, as a general rule, it will subside in the course of one or two hours. To relieve this symptom, however, it is well to give opium in some of its forms, and for this purpose, after an operation in which an anaesthetic has been used, it is an excellent plan to introduce into the rectum, before the patient becomes conscious, a suppository containing from a third to half a grain of morphia. The anodyne begins to exercise its calming influence before the effects of the anaesthetic have quite passed off', and in some instances the action of the two