ANTHRAX OR CARBUNCLE. 321 caustic upon one-half of a carbuncle, while leaving the slough on the other to the natural process of separation. This of course relieved the untouched half, hut granulation was well established upon the cauterized portion many days earlier than upon the other. This plan of destroying by caustic the central part of the carbuncle, but not extending the cauterization as far as would be proper for incisions, wTas especially urged by Dr. Physick, who thus revived a practice which, however, had had its advocates long before. But the potential cautery is not the only kind which has been applied with success. Professor Post has given us not only the result of his obser- vation, but that of his personal experience, with the actual cautery, which he regards as almost an abortive remedy when applied early. I quote his account:— In the spring of 1879, I had a circumscribed, indurated, inflammatory swelling over the right natis continuing a number of days, gradually increasing in size until its cir- cumference equalled that of the butt end of a hen’s egg, and until it had become so painful as to be an occasion of great annoyance. While the parts were in this con- dition, I requested my friend Dr. Hinton to apply the actual cautery to the middle of the inflamed part. The cautery used for this purpose was Thorp’s multiple cautery, presenting six points about the size of a small knitting-needle. This was heated to a red heat, and plunged into the inflamed part, so as to extend through the skin into the subjacent tissue. There was a momentary, acute pain, but this rapidly subsided, and was followed by a sensible relief from that which had previously existed. The next day the swelling and hardness had diminished, and from that time there was progres- sive improvement, until within three or four weeks the parts were restored to a sound condition. There was no destruction of the cellular tissue, and no proper suppuration, only a slight discharge of bloody serum. In the course of the spring and the summer, I had four other attacks similar in their leading features to the first, and they were all treated substantially in the same manner, only one application of the cautery having been made after each attack. Within about a week after the application following the second attack, I started on a journey of two thousand miles, and scarcely suffered any pain from the long-continued sitting posture. During none of these attacks did I remain in the house for a single day, nor did I abstain from any of my ordinary avo- cations. The severity of these various operations by incision, or by the use of the potential or actual cautery, properly demands the use of general or local anaesthesia: it has been shown that the spray will produce no unfavorable consequences from the reduction of temperature during the operation, and that it is capable of absolutely relieving the pain ; if, however, it should be thought best, general anaesthesia may be employed, for either the method by incision or that by the application of the cautery, to be beneficial, should be effi- ciently practised. Dr. H. Hunt and Dr. Leitner advise the use of a cupping- glass to supplement the incisions, thus creating by a kind of aspiration a force to draw the pus and other exudates from the periphery to the central opening. This cup can be made to include the whole tumor, and can be made to act by the simple method of heat, so that a tumbler or a bowl may be used of a size adapted to the case. This should be applied twice a day, and will always, cause a flow of pus from the deeper parts, thus immediately relieving the strangulation and tension. Another plan of treatment consists in the proper application of pressure. Its most strenuous advocate was Dr. O’Ferrall, who applied a covering of emplastrum saponis over the whole surface of the carbuncle, and extending beyond its indurated base. This case of his illustrates the practice:— The emplastrum saponis cum opio, without an incision in it, was applied upon the carbuncle in its earliest state, while it was still hard and livid, with a vesicle or two, VOL. II.—21