SYPHILIS IN ITS RELATIONS TO MARRIAGE. 581 washing his hands lightly of the whole business hy declining to sanction the marriage of a former or of a presumptive syphilitic. On the other hand, to sanction marriage when the syphilitic disease is still active in the system, even although it does not for the moment show itself by any outward sign, is to lure an unsuspecting victim to the committal of a crime against himself and others, of which he cannot appreciate the con- sequences. It therefore behooves the physician who is called upon to pronounce an opinion in such a case to examine the patient with the utmost care, to go into the history of the case, with minute examination of every point which can throw light upon the presence or course of pre-existent syphilitic disease, and not to pronounce his opinion until fully satisfied of the exact condition of his patient. As formulated by Langlebert,1 the various cases which present themselves may be grouped under one or another of the following heads : (1) An indi- vidual2 previously without syphilitic disease shows one or more lesions, apparently chancroids, and asks whether he may marry, and how soon. (2) An individual having had six months or longer previously one or more venereal sores, as to the character of which he cannot speak positively, but for which mercurial treatment was followed, asks the same question as (1). (3) An individual who is or has been the subject of an infecting sore (chancre), afterwards followed by generalized symptoms, which may or may not now show themselves, asks the same question as (1). (4) A man marries after having had syphilis, but at so remotely previous a date that there is reason to hope that he will show no future signs of the disease—what has he to fear for his future offspring? (5) An individual marries, having present syphilitic manifestations, or contracts syphilis after his marriage—what shall be done to avoid, or at least to lessen as much as possible, the consequences of his misconduct ? Under the first head, when a patient displays one or more venereal sores resembling chancroids, and asks how soon he may marry, the advice should be given to wait for six months. If by the end of this time no generalized lesions have made their appearance, the marriage may be consummated with- out fear.3 For, as has been shown in the earlier portion of this article, the longest period of incubation elapsing between the appearance of the initial lesion and the explosion of the general symptoms, does not exceed six months. Of course it is understood that during this period the patient should submit himself to the frequent inspection of his physician, for otherwise the earlier general symptoms may pass unnoticed. In addition, the patient should be directed to examine himself carefully from day to day, and especially to look for the erythematous rash, which so often appears and disappears without having been perceived, as well as for papules, mucous patches of the mouth, etc., crusted lesions of the scalp, and enlargement of the cervical glands. Under the second head, where a person who has had a suspicious sore or sores six months or more previously, for which mercurial treatment has been fol- 1 La Syphilis dans ses Rapports avec le Mariage. Paris, 1875. 2 Women so rarely present themselves for examination and opinion that I consider here the case of men only. There is, of course, little difference between the sexes regarding the manifesta- tion of the disease, excepting the far greater difficulty of finding whether or no a woman has had a chancre. I fail in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred to get any history of an initial lesion on the genitalia in women, though I rarely meet with cases where there is any apparent intent or desire to deceive. 3 Under such serious circumstances no reliance can or should he placed upon the classical descriptions of chancre and chancroid. In these cases the chancroid is the lesion which is found not to be followed hy general syphilis, after six months of careful watching, and no decision can be arrived at until the expiration of this period.