198 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Fig. 295. Gunshot perforation of penis, dividing urethra. (A. M. M., Spec. 902.) Fig. 296. Gunshot perforation of right common iliac artery. (A. M. M., Spec. 6336.) by Williamson. When the rectum has been opened, fecal matter may pass into the peritoneal cavity or the connective tissue of the pelvis, or may be discharged externally, according to the position and extent of the wound. Not very seldom there is simultaneous perfora- tion of both bladder and rectum; or at a later period a communication may be established between these vis- cera by sloughing. Injuries of the male generative organs, which are fortu- nately not very common, may be either superficial and slight, or may involve the testis, penis, or spermatic cord. The testis may be bruised, torn, or completely carried away, and in cases of other than entire destruction atrophy is the usual result of the lesion; much less frequently, severe and long continuing neuralgia is produced. At times, the shot buries itself in the scrotum. The penis may be perforated, or penetration may occur with lodgment of the shot, which, if unremoved, may be- come encysted. The urethra, which is very apt to be involved, may be contused or lacerated, the injury ulti- mately resulting in the establishment of a very trouble- some fistula, penile, perineal, or rectal, or in the forma- tion of a stricture. Occasionally a ball, even of large size, will be found to have passed through the corpora cavernosa or the glans without damaging the urethra. Wounds of the female genitals are rare, and usually associated with other and much more important lesions of the abdominal, pelvic, or femoral regions. The uterus is not often injured; when in the unimpregnated state, but little harm may be done beyond that resulting from the commonly associated vesical and rectal wounds ; but when, on the other hand, pregnancy exists, there is much risk of an early and fatal termination of the case, from the abortion which must almost of necessity occur, or from hemorrhage, shock, or peritonitis. Death, however, may not take place; and even an injured foetus may be born alive, if we can credit such a report as that given by Reiehard.1 A more or less perman- ent fistula may remain after an otherwise com- plete recovery from a penetrating uterine wound, through which the menstrual blood may be discharged. The great bloodvessels of the region (iliac, gluteal, sciatic, pudic, or obturator) may be primarily divided, or secondarily opened by ulceration, after contusion; and traumatic an- eurisnjs are at times developed. The large nerves {the sciatic within or without the pelvis, the anterior crural, the obturator) may also be injured, with resulting paralysis or neuralgia. 1 In this case the child had a wound under the right clavicle, in which there was lodged a piece of the mother’s clothing, and a buckshot of the size of a small pea.