2 CONTUSIONS. Degrees of Contusion. The degree of a contusion may vary from a slight bruise or pinch of the skin and subcutaneous fascia to a complete crushing and disintegration of a part, according to the amount of violence employed, the resistance of the tis- sues, and the health of the individual injured. Persons whose blood has been impoverished by long-wasting disease are easily bruised. Fat, anaemic women, young or old, especially if bed-ridden for any length of time, are the subjects of frequent ecehymoses produced by the most trifling causes—such as turning over in bed, if the mattress is hard or uneven; or the grasp of the nurse’s hand, in assisting them to move. These bruised spots, or ecehymoses, appear chiefly on the hips, back, and arms; but may come on any part of the body. Individuals who are subjects of the scorbutic or of the hemorrhagic diathe- sis, are peculiarly liable to ecchymosis; but purpuric spots and patches must not he confounded with the discoloration of a bruise. The term bruise, or ecchymosis, is applied to cases in which the contusion is slight, and in which but a small quantity of blood and blood-stained fluid is effused into the sub- cutaneous tissue; a contusion which is indicated by the familiar bluish-black discoloration which follows. If the contusion is more severe, involving deeper structures, laceration of larger vessels occurs, and a greater quantity of blood is poured out. In these cases the discoloration which attends the extravasa- tion may not he seen for several days, as it takes some time for the effused blood to make its way through the tissues to the surface. The discoloration may also appear at a distance from the site of injury. When the extrava- sated blood is coagulated, it is known as a thrombus ; if it is collected into a cavity and remains fluid, it is called a hcematoma. The more vascular and yielding the part—other things being equal—the greater is the hemorrhage. The blood which escapes from the bloodvessels and is confined in the tissues, coagulates over and compresses the lacerated vessels, and in this way, to a great extent, the bleeding is stopped. When the contusion is of the highest degree, and the part is completely crushed and disorganized, it is said by some authors to be puljpejied. In these extensive injuries the skin may also be involved, and show some signs of le- sion ; but frequently its great strength and elasticity enable it to escape un- hurt. The skull may be crushed into numberless fragments, and the brain may be lacerated by a portion of a shell, and yet the scalp may remain appa- rently uninjured; or the wheel of a carriage may pass over a limb, breaking the bones and reducing the soft parts to a pulp, while the skin continues un- broken. When a contusion is severe, the muscles and other soft parts being broken up, a large bloodvessel may be ruptured, and hemorrhage, even to the extent of causing fatal syncope, may ensue; or the contusion and disintegra- tion may be followed by rapid sloughing, or even by acute gangrene of the parts. In such cases the bloodvessels sometimes appear at first, to have escaped injury; hut they speedily succumb to the mortification which follows. In some instances there are lacerations of internal organs, such as the lungs, liver, spleen, bladder, brain, or spinal cord, leading perhaps to extravasation of blood into a serous cavity. If the case is one of simple bruise, or ecchymosis, the bleeding takes place in the areolar tissue just below the skin, and usually in small quantity; but Mr. Erichsen has related a case in which a school-boy was beaten to death by his teacher, and in which, at the post-mortem examination, the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the arms and legs was found separated from the fascia below, the space between being filled with extravasated blood. Death in this in- stance was attributed principally to the interstitial hemorrhage.