YAWS. 593 lieves that it can only he communicated by contact of the sound with the dis- eased, or by the application of the discharges of those suffering from yaws to an abraded surface or wound. John Hunter1 regarded this affection as conta- gions, and cited the case of a physician who was inoculated with yaws from a wound, received while operating on a patient suffering from the disease. Thomson2 believed yaws to be freely communicable by inoculation, and gave examples from his own practice of women being inoculated by suckling children who were suffering from it; he also inoculated children with yaw matter to ascertain if the disease could be modified by this procedure, but his results showed that the artificial production of yaws neither shortened its duration nor diminished its severity. These experiments of Thomson were confirmed by an observation of Paulet,3 who inoculated a child with the matter taken from the pustules of yaws; the operation was followed in three weeks by an attack of the disease which lasted for nine months. Bowerbank4 acknowl- edges only the contagiousness of yaws by direct contact of the secretion with a wound or abraded surface, and says that in Jamaica patients with yaws are admitted into the general hospitals without the disease being communicated to the other patients or to the attendants. From the fact that yaws is frequently contracted during sexual intercourse, from its peculiar manifestations on the skin and mucous membranes, and from the fact that it is often followed by sequelae much resembling those of syphilis, it is not surprising that the older writers considered it to be identi- cal with that disease. Indeed, John Hunter5 stood almost alone among the surgeons of his time in maintaining that yaws was a distinct and sepa- rate affection. Hor can it be said that the more modern writers are unani- mous in their opinions upon this point; Lancereaux6 and Berkeley Hill7 consider the identity of the two diseases well established, and adduce the fact that they are both amenable to mercurial treatment as furnishing additional evidence in support of their view. Milroy,8 Bowerbamc, and Imray, on the other hand, while they acknowledge certain points of resemblance with syphi- lis, believe yaws to be a distinct and separate disease. I think that the weight of authority and the evidence of recent observers certainly point to the non-identity of the two affections, a view which is sus- tained also by the fact that both diseases can exist in the same patient at the same time ; Milroy mentions a case where yaw-ulcers and syphilis existed simultaneously, and Dr. Ross also cites a case of syphilis and yaws being found in the same patient, the syphilis getting well under mercurial treatment, while the yaws remained. Treatment of Yaws.—Thomson says that the natives of the West Indies looked upon this disease with peculiar disgust, and that patients suffering from yaws were isolated on remote parts of the estates, receiving little care except from negro attendants, and being seldom brought to the notice of European physicians. The natives employed in the treatment of this disease the flowers of sulphur, dusted on the ulcerated parts, and the contused leaves of the physic-nut (jatropha curcas), and the juice of the bitter cassava (janipha manihot). The treatment of yaws, according to Imray, consists in the use of baths to encourage the full development of the eruption, and in the exhibi- tion of sulphur and of the bitartrate of potassium, for the first six or eight days. Mercury is then given, with decoction of sarsaparilla or sassafras, but 1 Works, vol. ii. p. 471. 3 Lancereaux, op. cit., vol. i. p. 33. 6 Op. cit. 7 Op. cit., p. 15. 2 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Jour., vols. xv.-xviii. 4 Medical Times and Gazette, June, 1880. 6 Op. cit., p. 33. 8 Leprosy and Yaws in the West Indies, 1873. vol. ii.—38