WOUNDS. 28 retained blood, serum, or slougliing, injured tissue is keeping the part in a state of unrest by tending to separate the lips of the wound, and by exciting tension ; or is undergoing chemical change and decomposition, thus threatening the production of some septicsemic or pysemic blood-condition. For it must he recognized that, whilst in the cleanest incised wound there may be no death of the divided tissues, and consequently no animal matter to undergo chemi- cal change or putrefactive decomposition; in the contused and lacerated, there must of necessity be more or less destruction. When tissue dies, it must be shed or cast off from the living parts, before the physiological repa- rative or uniting process can take its course. When this dead tissue has been separated from the living, it ceases at once to be influenced by the vital processes by which it had been built up, kept alive, and eventually cast off"; it consequently becomes subject to the physical laws of all dead matter, and undergoes chemical changes—which mean too often decomposition. The object of the surgeon, therefore, in the treatment of these eases of wound in which the death of tissue is to be expected, and cannot be pre- vented, is to neutralize as far as possible the evil influence of its death and probable decomposition; and this is to be achieved by so dealing with the injured part that the dead tissue may find a free outlet for its discharge, by rejecting all such applications or dressings as are likely to help putrefactive decomposition, and by employing such means and agents as are likely to neutralize its pernicious influence, and in a measure control the process of decay. With these views, therefore, the surgeon should close up such wounds alone as from their cleanness can be expected to heal by quick or primary union, and should leave open all such as from their raggedness and contusion are sure to be attended with more or less death of tissue, providing in these a free vent for all discharges of decomposed material, and employing antisep- tic and disinfecting local applications to neutralize the evils of the chemical changes. Treatment to help Quick or Primary Union. To promote the primary union of a wound the surgeon has six indications to follow:— I. To cleanse the wound ; II. To arrest all bleeding; III. To effect coaptation of the two divided surfaces of the wound—the deep parts as well as the edges. IV. To maintain the wounded parts in a position of immobility, benefi- cial to the natural process of repair as well as comfortable to the patient. V. To secure drainage of the wound by providing for the escape of such dead tissue as may be thrown off, as well as of all fluids that are not required for repair. VI. To protect the external wound from all such outside influences as may be prejudicial. The first two indications have been already considered, viz., the cleansing of the wound and the arrest of bleeding. In all forms of wound, and for every form of healing, attention to these points is most important, but when quick or primary union is to be expected, it is all essential. Coaptation of Wound.—The coaptation of the two divided surfaces of the wound (the third indication), may be efficiently carried out in superficial or not deep wounds by means of sutures and adhesive plaster separately or