GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 171 tics, excision is more dangerous by 12.5 per cent, than amputation at the joint, though less so by 13.5 per cent, than removal through the leg; but Legouest’s figures, here as elsewhere, are largely those of the operations per- formed by the French surgeons in the Crimea, the fatality of which was ex- cessive. Gunshot Injuries of the Head. Gunshot wounds of the head may be confined to the scaljp; may also involve the cranial bones; or may present, in addition, an injury of the brain or its coverings, with or without lodgment of the missile. Scalp.—When the scalp alone is damaged, there may be only contusion, which, if severe, is almost certain to be followed by cerebral disturbances; or simple division, differing but little from an incised wound, an accident due almost always to the superficial impact of a shot passing at a high rate of speed; or, what usually occurs, a more or less deep grooving with primary or secondary loss of substance; or, and this is frequently observed, a seton wound, sometimes of considerable length; or, lastly, penetration with lodgment, often seen in wounds produced by small shot or pistol bullets of small diameter, and at times in those caused by nearly spent rifle-balls. Ordinarily recognized without difficulty, the scalp injury may, for a time, escape detection when the shot has passed up to the head from the neck or face. The prognosis is favorable; the mortality is only 2 per cent.1 chiefly from “ some form of encephalitis,” though the various wound-complications may occur, particularly hemorrhage ; and though cerebral disturbances, occasion- ally very persistent, are not unlikely to follow injuries inflicted by missiles of large size. Primary union seldom occurs, though much more apt to take place here and on the face than in superficial wounds in other parts of the body. Treatment.—If a bullet has lodged, its presence can be detected without difficulty, except when located in the temporal fossa; its position then may be indicated only by pain on moving the lower jaw. Bird-shot, and even small pistol-balls, may be so flattened and buried in the -tissues as not to be discovered upon palpation, or by the use of the probe. If found, the foreign body is to be removed through either the original wound or a counter open- ing ; but when very small, no extensive search should be made, as the offend- ing substance will probably reveal its presence at a later period, or will other- wise remain innocuous, causing no material delay in the healing of the wound. Seton wounds not infrequently convert themselves by sloughing into deep grooves ; and because of the possibility of such a change being produced, some have advised that they should be early laid open, a procedure, however, that, as a rule, should not be adopted, since in very many cases, when let alone, the bullet track readily heals. As the result of a shell wound, there may be an extensive loss of substance, with or without exposure of the bone. The treatment of scalp wounds is that of ordinary flesh wounds elsewhere, though in cases in which there has been produced scarcely more than an inci- sion, sutures may be very advantageously employed, primary union being not infrequently thereby secured ; and in the cases of grooving the introduction of stitches does no harm, and often by holding the edges closer together lessens the time required for healing. As in scalp-injuries other than gunshot, adhe- 1 162 deaths out of 7739 cases during our war (2.09 per cent.).