12 WOUNDS. tive process to be carried out. The wound is called “complicated,” when there are foreign bodies lodged in the part to interfere with repair; when it is attended with hemorrhage, or with much contusion or laceration of tissue; or when from the peculiarity of the patient there are nervous symptoms, severe pain, constitutional disturbance, or local inflammation; or when repair is interfered with by the presence of such complications as bad health or old age. Incised Wounds. Open incised wounds are best seen as the result of operations, but they may also be well studied as clean cuts, accidentally made with sharp-edged instru- ments. They may gape from the elasticity or contractility of the tissues divided; may bleed from the division or wound of small or large vessels; and may give rise to variable degrees of pain, according to the number or character of the nerves involved, and according to the susceptibility of the patient. G-aping of Incised Wounds.—The amount of gaping in a wound varies with the tissue divided. Skin, which is the most elastic tissue in the body, retracts when divided far more than other tissues, and transverse wounds of skin gape more than those which are longitudinal. Arteries, when wounded transversely or obliquely, gape much, and when completely divided across, retract far into the tissues. Divided veins retract less than arteries. Muscles, when their fibres are cut across, shorten rapidly by contraction, and thus aid the gaping of a wound. Fibrous tissues and nerves, when divided, retract but little. All wounds, however, which are made in parts in a state of tension, gape much, and tissues which are on the stretch when divided, retract far more than they would do if they were relaxed. Thus an incision made into the full breast of a suckling woman, will probably by gaping appear as wide as it is long; while one made into the same organ in a flaccid state, would gape but little. Some tissues, on the other hand, never gape on division; this is best seen in wounds of the palm of the hand, and of the sole of the foot. The surgeon takes advantage of these known conditions of gaping and retraction of tissues, and in his operations so places on the stretch the parts to be divided, as to enable him to make a clean and decisive section of the tissues with which he is dealing—a single sweep of the knife, made under these cir- cumstances, doing the work of many when made under others less favorable. Hemorrhage from Incised Wounds.—The bleeding that attends an incised wound depends principally upon the size, number, and character of the ves- sels that are divided, although it may be influenced by the personal pecu- liarities of the patient, and more particularly by the fact of his being a “bleeder,” or not; or, in other words, by his being, or not being, a subject of the “hemorrhagic diathesis.” The condition of the wounded part, moreover, whether inflamed, or otherwise more than normally supplied with blood, has some influence; and the effects of position must always be taken into account. Putting aside, however, these peculiarities, constitutional and local, the my- riads of vessels that are divided in a wound made in a healthy subject with sound tissues, rapidly if not instantaneously close on the removal of the dividing medium; for it is a fact that capillary bleeding after an incised wound rapidly ceases by natural processes, and that what goes by the name of “hemorrhage” is due to the issue of blood from wounded arteries of some size, or from wounded veins, the bleeding, if it does not prove rapidly fatal, persisting till nature’s haemostatic processes—unassisted or assisted by art— have had time to act.