GONORRHOEA. 388 dressing, have, I believe, been due either to its improper and uneven appli- cation, or to its employment at too early a stage of the affection. I have now used it in so large a number of cases that I am enabled to speak of it with the utmost confidence as giving speedy, harmless, and almost invariable relief when neatly applied at the proper stage of the disease. Of the very many other remedies which have been recommended in the treatment of epididymitis, I may mention the tobacco-poultice, a dressing made of fine cut tobacco and flaxseed meal mixed with hot water and lau- danum, as of use in those cases in which cold applications cannot be borne. I must allude also to the benefit derived from the hypodermic injection of morphia in quantity sufficient to control the pain. In those exceptional cases in which this has become necessary in my hands, it has really seemed to have, to a certain extent, the positive curative action which has been claimed for it, the acute pain not returning even after the effect of the narcotic had worn off. Lint soaked in a solution of nitrate of silver, one part to one hundred of water (Marc Girard) ; collodion as a means of compression (Bonnafont) ; ether applied on a piece of lint, and allowed to evaporate (Assadorian) ; friction with an ointment of anti- mony (Michel) ; injection of nitrate of silver into prostatic urethra (Boeck) ; iodo- form ointment (Alvarez) ; puncture of the tunica vaginalis (Velpeau) ; puncture of the tunica albuginea and of the testicle itself (Vidal and Henry Smith) ; poultices of digitalis leaves (Besnier) ; pulsatilla, one drop of mother tincture every one or two hours (Piffard and Fox) ; ice applied in bladders (Diday) ; injection of morphia into tunica vaginalis, followed by strapping (Warren) ; oleate of mercury and morphia (Marshall) ; hypodermics of morphia alone (Milton) ; immersion in hot water followed by cold douche (Lloyd) ; nitrate of silver, 15 grains to the ounce (Jordan), are some of the measures recommended in this affection and enumerated by Bumstead in an excellent resume in the American Practitioner for March, 1878. Prof. Thiry, of Brussels, advocates1 the use, in epididymitis, of strips of muslin covered with starch paste, and recommends their employment at the height of the acute stage, provided the general febrile disturbance has subsided. An ointment of a drachm of iodoform to the ounce of vaseline is recommended in acute epididymitis by Dr. Sabadini, of Constantinople, and by Dr. Bourdeaux.2 The induration of the epididymis which remains after all inflammatory action has disappeared is usually permanent, and is not much affected by treatment. It may, however, diminish under the use of belladonna and mercurial ointment, and the internal administration of iodine and a mercu- rial. In cases of double epididymitis followed by sterility, it is well to pursue this method of treatment for a long period, as the re-establishment of the spermatic canal to ever so slight a degree is then, of course, a matter of great importance. Gonorrhoeal Rheumatism has always been, and still is, considered to be a peculiarly obstinate and intractable form of joint-trouble, and treatment is pronounced, by all authorities upon the subject, to be in the highest degree unsatisfactory. The persistence of the swelling and inflammation, in spite of treatment, is always alluded to by such writers, and, although no average time is mentioned, it is evident that, in their experience, the disease has been a protracted one. I believe that, it will necessarily be more or less so under any circumstances, but after a trial of all the various methods, local and general, which have from time to time been recommended, I am convinced that the results attained by adopting the following therapeutic measures are far superior to those following any other plan of treatment:— 1 Presse Medicale Beige, 1877. 2 Archives M6d. Beiges.