19 PROCESS OF REPAIR IN WOUNDS. seed to a hemp-seed, the smaller being highly vascular and red, the larger being, as a rule, paler and more bloodless. The wound at this time is “granu- lating.” The secretion from these granulations is now of a creamy-yellow character, and is called pus. They are made up of cells called granulation cells, which resemble inflammatory lymph-cells, each granulation being com- posed of a capillary loop surrounded by simple, nucleated, embryo cells, and by connective-tissue or placoid corpuscles (Figs. 202 and 203). Of the nuclei, Paget says:—- “ Some of these nuclei are arranged longitudinally, others transversely, to the axis of the vessels.” In the development of these vessels changes occur, answering to those seen in ordinary embryonic development. “Organization makes some progress before ever blood comes to the very substance of the growing part; for the form of cells may be assumed before the granulations become vascular. But for their continuous active growth and development, fresh material from blood, and that brought close to them, is essential. For this, the bloodvessels are formed ; and their size and number appear always proportionate to the volume and rapidity of life of the granulations. No instance would show the relation of blood to an actively growing or developing part better than it is shown in one of the vascular loops of a granulation embedded .... among the crowd of living cells, and maintaining their continual mutations. Nor is it in any case plainer than in that of granulations, that the supply of blood in a part is proportionate to the activity of its changes, and not to its mere structural development. The vascular loops lie embedded among the simplest primary cells, or, when granulations degenerate, among structures of yet lower organization ; and as the structures are developed, and con- nective tissue formed, so the bloodvessels become less numerous, till the whole of the new material assumes the paleness and low vascularity of a common scar.1” If at this time, when the granulations have attained to the level of the skin, we look to the margins of the wound, we shall see a dry, red band of newly formed tissue, with an outer border of a bluish- white color, where it comes into contact with sound Fig- 204. integument. This band is the new skin forming, and is caused by the gradual growth of the epider- mis from the margin of the sound skin towards the centre of the sore. Such a process is called cicatrization. The cicatrix is at first red, as in the linear cicatrix to which we have already alluded, but, as it then contracts, it subsequently becomes paler, and more compact and adherent. The nature of the scar or cicatrix varies with the tissue in which it is formed, the new connecting medium or cicatrix under all circumstances having a powerful tendency to adapt itself to the peculiar character of the tissue in which it is placed. Thus, a cicatrix in skin, in time closely resembles true skin ; a cicatrix in bone, true bone; and a cicatrix in tendon becomes tough and hard, like tendon ;. the consolidating, reparative material in every instance partakes of the character of the parts which it connects. It is corpuscular in its origin, and clearly fibrinous in its nature; but whatever the origin may be (though there is considerable divergence of opinion about it), its existence is undoubted, and through it and by it all repair takes place. Epithelium developing from granulation cells in the order of the figures 1, 2, 3; No. 3 shows the fully-formed il cog-wheel” cell, at a, becoming vacuolated by the loss of its nucleus. (After Golding-Bird.) Secondary Adhesion.—When two granulating surfaces are brought to- gether, and union takes place between them, healing by secondary adhesion, 1 Paget, Lectures on Surgical Pathology, Third edition, page 165. London, 1870.