/ 168 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. cording to Longmore), “ was a knee-joint, which had been opened by a bullet, saved, life being lost in every case where amputation was not resorted to.” By the official “ Medical and Surgical History of the British Army” in the Crimea, however, it is shown that eight cases were saved without operation, Partial fracture of left femur by conoidal ball lodged in cancellated structure. (A. M. M., Spec. 4071.) though in none of them was the bone within the capsule “ more than grazed (not fractured).” Of 308 cases treated by expectancy during our war, 258 (83.76 per cent.) died, and it is believed that even this does not truly repre- sent the excessive mortality, cases of non-penetrating wound probably having been, by error of diagnosis, included among the 50 that recovered. Of 529 cases similarly treated in the Franco-German war (and reported upon by Heintzel), 334 (63.14 per cent.) died—225 of these after subsequent ampu- tation, which was employed in 288 cases, or in 54.4 per cent, of the whole number which it was attempted to treat expectantly. Of the entire 529 cases, only 132 (25 per cent.) recovered with a fairly useful limb. Of Reyher’s 19 cases, 18 died (94.7 per cent.). On the other hand, during the war of 1866, out of eighteen cases of gunshot wound of the knee, eleven were cured by conservative treatment (61.11 per cent.). Extensive opening of the joint by a shell fragment is more likely to he followed by recovery than is a bullet wound. Such injuries, if not fatal, are usually followed by anchylosis. Amputation and Excision.—Until within the last ten years, the results following amputation were better than those obtained by expectation, but the mortality rate was still very high, especially when the operation was per- formed in the intermediary period. Of 452 determined cases, during the war of the Rebellion, 331 died, or 73.23 per cent. Excision of the knee, which has been adopted 134 times in military practice, has been followed by death in 108 cases, or 80 per cent., and unless the antiseptic treatment should in the future very greatly lessen this mortality, the operation should certainly be, as Sarazin has put it, “proscribed in army surgery.” In civil life, it succeeds much better, as might naturally be expected, since the injuries are as a rule less extensive, being made by smaller projectiles, and since the after- Amputated end of right femur and head of tibia with round musket ball impacted iu latter. (A. M. M., Spec. 1481.)