471 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE. Op. cit., 2e ed., p. 203. able rule, “never to diagnosticate chancre by the chancre,” that is, never to found his diagnosis upon the appearance of the lesion itself. Fournier1 gives the following illustrative case :—A little girl, six years of age, was brought to the hospital as being the subject of chancres said to have been communicated in an attempt at criminal assault. Examination showed intense vul- vitis, the labia majora being swollen to the size of a quarter of an orange, cedematous, red, and painful, with abundant suppuration. In addition, there was erosive intertrigo of the genito-crural folds, and of the upper and inner portions of the thighs and inguinal regions, and three ulcers also could be seen upon the labia majora. One of these was the size of an apricot pit, the other two were circular and the size of lentils. These lesions were of a grayish color and covered with a diphtheritic looking membrane ; they were shallow, with a flat surface, even a little raised in one lesion. They were indolent and had a somewhat indurated base. Finally, in both groins there were enlarged ganglia, indolent, multiple, and easily rolled under the finger. With these lesions before him, Fournier unhesitatingly diagnosticated chancre with vulvitis, but, in accordance with his rule in medico-legal cases, declined to express his opinion formally to the court of justice until after a delay of a few days. Fortunately for the accused, this delay changed entirely the aspect of affairs. Within a few days, under a simple dressing, the vulvitis and ulcers disappeared like magic, the ganglia lost their induration, and the patient recovered without showing any subsequent signs of infection, though remaining under careful daily observation at the hospital for several months. I have given the account-of this case because it shows in the most striking manner possible how the most distinguished living syphilologist could be completely mistaken in a diagnosis at first sight. In making this ‘ confession” public, with characteristic candor, Fournier adds the following moral: (1.) The case demonstrates first, that certain simple, purely inflammatory lesions may take on the aspect—the mask and stamp, so to speak—of chancre, with such fidelity to the genuine lesion as to impose themselves upon the most attentive and experienced observer as the initial lesion of syphilis. (2.) It demonstrates, moreover, that the medico-legal diagnosis of chancre should not be made on a single examination of the lesion supposed to be such, but rather by the collation of confirmatory signs, of which the symptom first presented (chancre) should constitute the first term, and the secondary, generalized, constitutional symptoms following at a date named, should constitute the final term. In considering the diagnosis of chancre thus far, the erosive and desqua- mative forms of the lesion have been kept in mind in connection with the other lesions with which these may he confounded. When, however, the chancre becomes more or less ulcerated (see Plate IX., Figs. 2 and 3), it is the chancroid with which it is most likely to he confused. The diagnosis between chancre and chancroid has been dealt with by Dr. Sturgis in the preceding Article (page 439), and I shall therefore not dwell upon this subject at length, but shall content myself with giving the following table, based upon those furnished by Belhomme and Martin and by Fournier, which shows in brief the various points to be considered in the differentiation of the two lesions, a task usually not very difficult. Differential Diagnosis between Chancre and Chancroid. Chancre. (1) Incubation on an average from fif- teen to thirty-five days. (2) Derived from the contagion of a chancre, of a secreting secondary syphi- litic lesion, or, in some cases, of the blood of a person suffering with secondary sy- philis. Chancroid. (1) No incubation. (2) Derived from the contagion of a chancroid or of a suppurating chancroidal bubo.