311 GANGRENE FROM EMBOLISM. The oldest child was a girl of fifteen, and the youngest an infant four months old. They were all healthy at the time of the attack. It commenced with severe pain, which in most of the cases affected the left leg first—a pain so violent that the cries of the sufferers alarmed the neighborhood. In the course of a few hours the toes became much swollen, and after four or five days the pains abated; the feet were covered with spots of purpura, and then became black. In some, the sound limbs became diseased; all, with a single exception, were affected about the same time, in the month of Janu- ary, the weather then being warmer than usual. In the case of the father, the disease assumed the milder form, the fingers only becoming discolored and contracted, and several of the nails falling off. For a long time afterwards he continued to complain of darting pains in the limbs, knees, arms, and back. During the whole time of this calamity, the family appeared in other respects well. They ate heartily and slept soundly when the pains abated. At the termination of the disease, the father had recovered, except as to two fingers, which remained to some degree contracted ; the mother, aged forty, had lost the right foot at the ankle-joint, and the left leg a little below the knee, her hands and part of her arms remaining with but little sensation, the fingers being also contracted ; Mary, aged fifteen, had lost both legs below the knee, and was then dead; Elizabeth, aged thirteen, had also lost both legs below the knee; Sarah, aged ten, was deprived of one foot and two toes of the remaining foot; Robert, aged eight, had both legs off below the knee; and Edward, aged four, had lost both feet at the ankle-joint. The infant had been weaned as soon as the mother was attacked, but became ill, and died in the course of a few weeks. It appeared to suffer violent pain, and the legs became black before death. Dr. "Wollaston states that, with the exception of the mother, the family seemed well—one poor boy in particular looking as healthy as possible, sit- ting on the bed, quite jolly, and drumming with his stumps. ISTo cause could be assigned for this terrible visitation, except that the family had lived for about a fortnight on bread made from wheat which had been damaged at harvest. It had been cut in a rainy season, and had lain on the ground until many of the grains were black and totally decayed. These were undoubtedly affected with ergot. The only reasonable treatment of such an affection would seem to be the use of good food, and the adoption of the supporting plan. Generally, of course, amputation after the formation of the red line would be proper, as in some other forms of gangrene. Those affected only with spasmodic con- tractions should be treated with tonics and anti-spasmodics. Gangrene from Embolism. Embolism is a term given to the arrest of the arterial circulation by a fibrinous plug or embolon. This embolon is usually, and almost necessarily, a fibrinous heart-clot, but may also be the result of vegetative growth in the systemic circulation, or in the course of the pulmonary arteries or the portal veins. The belief that obstructions of this kind might exist in the circulation was entertained long before the true mechanism of embolism was discovered. Galen recognized the existence in the heart of “polypi,” which he believed interfered with the movement of the normal spirits, and thus resulted in death. Vesalius also observed a coincidence between gangrene of the ex- tremities and disease of the heart. But after the discoveries of Harvey, affections of the circulation attracted extraordinary attention, and these “ polypi ” were regarded as prolific causes of disease. Bonetus, in thb six- teenth century, recognized the difference between clots formed during the moribund condition and those that had existed during life. As he says: “ These last are white, firm, rich in fibrin, while the recent are red and soft”— differences which we still recognize to-day. Van Swieten made the first