THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. 72 mixing with the steam, forms a spray of the strength of about 1 part of car- bolic acid to 30 parts of water. The spray is employed during the whole operation; till in fact the dressing has been securely applied. With the view of excluding organisms after the operation, the material usually employed is the carbolic gauze. This is ordinary tarlatan, impregnated with a mixture of 1 part of carbolic acid, 4 parts of resin, and 4 parts of paraffin. If the cotton material were merely dipped in carbolic acid or car- bolic lotion, the antiseptic would very quickly volatilize, or be washed out by the discharge. It is necessary, therefore, to have the antiseptic stored up so that it may last for some time. This is the purpose of the resin. Resin and carbolic acid have a much greater affinity than water and carbolic acid. Water, therefore, may pass over a mixture of resin and carbolic acid for a considerable time, without washing out all the antiseptic. If the gauze were impregnated with resin and carbolic acid alone, it would be so sticky as to be useless, and therefore paraffine is added to it in sufficient quantities to do away with its stickiness. As the gauze at ordinary temperatures does not give off much carbolic acid, dust which falls on it is not deprived of its fermenting property, and, if a piece of gauze covered with dust is applied over the ori- fice of a drainage tube, this dust may pass into the wound, and entirely defeat the object of the whole treatment. On the other hand, the watery solution of carbolic acid acts very rapidly, and hence all that is necessary is to dip the layers of the gauze which go next the wound in the 1-40 lotion. Lest the carbolic acid should evaporate, the gauze, if it is to be kept for some time, is preserved in closely-shutting tin boxes. Carbolic acid is a powerful irritant, and, applied directly to a wound, it will retard or even prevent healing. With the view of overcoming this difficulty, Mr. Lister interposes a material, impervious to carbolic acid, between the wound and the gauze dressing. This material is termed the protective. It is ordinary oiled silk, coated on both sides with a thick layer of copal varnish. Outside this a solution of dextrine is brushed, because water runs off from the material without the dextrine, just as from a duck’s back, whereas the dextrine dissolves in the lotion, and the protective is equally and perfectly moistened. This protective is cut a little larger than the wound, dipped in the lotion, and applied over it. Outside the protective we have the wet gauze, larger than the protective and overlapping it in all directions, both together being called the deep dressing (Fig. 218). Fig. 218. Shows the method of using the protective and deeper layer of the gauze. When used as a dressing, the carbolic gauze is packed into the hollows around the wound, and then a regular dressing is applied. This consists of the gauze folded in eight layers, beneath the outer layer of which is placed a piece