(11) WOUNDS. BY THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C.S, SURGEON TO, AND LECTURER ON SURGERY AT, GUY’S HOSPITAL, LONDON. From a clinical point of view, wounds may be divided into the “open” and the “subcutaneous,” if we exclude those by which animal poisons are intro- duced into the system, such as dissection wounds, the stings of insects, bites of snakes and rabid animals, and the wounds which afford an entrance to the poisons of glanders, malignant pustule, and, last but not least, syphilis. The term open is applied to all injuries caused by external violence—the result either of accident, or, as in operation, of design—in which there is a solution of continuity in the soft tissues, and in which the deeper parts are exposed to the influence of the air, through a more or less gaping orifice. The term subcutaneous is applied to such injuries as follow external violence, and in which the deeper tissues, bones, or viscera, are broken, ruptured, lacerated, or crushed, without any breach in the continuity of the soft parts covering them, and consequently without their exposure to the influence of the external air, as well as to such operations as may be done by the surgeon through a small external or open wound—as in tenotomy, myotomy, and osteotomy. Open wounds are more serious as a rule than the subcutaneous, though when large vessels and viscera are concerned, the latter are among the gravest injuries the surgeon has to deal with. Open wounds, moreover, heal by a more com- plicated process than the subcutaneous, and are exposed to risks from which the latter are free. Classification of Open Wounds. When made by a sharp-edged instrument, either by accident or in an opera- tion, wounds are said to be incised; when inflicted by a blunt instrument that tears, they are called lacerated; and when caused by one that bruises, contused. Wounds caused by the thrust of a pointed instrument are called punctured, though when the weapon is sharp, the tissues are simply pierced and cut deeply; but when blunt, irregular in shape, or increasing in diameter from the point towards the handle, the soft parts are forced asunder as by a wedge, and are consequently stretched and contused. A punctured wound thus under some circumstances approaches the character of the incised, and under other circumstances that of the contused form of injury. As a matter of fact, however, all wounds of soft parts are more or less contused, those inflicted with a very sharp instrument being, of course, the least so. A wound is called “simple,” when it has been made by a clean, sharp-edged instrument, m a healthy subject, and when there is nothing in the nature of the wound itself, or in the state of the patient, to prevent or retard repair, provided that the injured part be placed in a favorable position for the repara-