509 SYPHILIS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. Bassereau’s statistics show that in 130 men these lesions were observed:— About the anus in . 110 cases On the tonsils .... . 100 44 On the scrotum .... 66 u On the mouth and lips On the glans and internal surface of the pre- 55 u puce ..... 28 u On the velum palati . 27 u On the tongue .... . 18 44 On the half arches , 17 44 On the internal aspect of the cheeks and lips 11 44 In the interdigital spaces of the feet 11 44 The mucous patch, like its counterpart, the moist papule, is one of the most important lesions in the entire series of syphilitic manifestations, not only because of its extremely contagious character, but also because of the frequency of its occurrence. Many persons who contract syphilis escape the severer skin eruptions, and the grave, late manifestations, but scarcely any, if, indeed, any at all, escape mucous patches in some shape, or at some period of the early development of the disease. Indeed, as Jullien remarks, the history of an average case of syphilis may be summarized as follows: a chancre, a transi- tory erythematous rash, and, following this, mucous patches, relapses of mucous patches, more mucous patches ! Mucous patches occur and recur without regard to other manifestations, which may come and go, be present or absent, without influencing the course of the mucous lesions. The secretion of the mucous patch is, as has been said, in a high degree contagious. Next to chancre, the mucous patch is the commonest source of infection.1 The most frequent seat of mucous patches in men is within the mouth, while in women these lesions are more commonly found upon the vulva. Their development within the mouth is favored by the use of tobacco, either by smoking or chewing, while in all regions uncleanliness is both an inciting cause and a means of keeping the lesions in existence. Mucous patches within the genital organs of both sexes sometimes give rise to a discharge from the neighboring mucous membrane, resembling gonorrhoea, which is not infrequently observed about the time that early secondary symptoms appear, or when a relapse of general symptoms takes place.2 Mucous patches within the buccal cavity present the appearance of grayish- white, irregular patches, not elevated, or sometimes depressed below the sur- face, looking as though they had been pencilled over with nitrate of silver (whence the name “ opaline patches,” by which they are sometimes known). The most common seat of these lesions is upon the internal surface of the lips and cheeks (riate X. Fig. 2), upon the tongue (Plate X. Fig. 3), upon the gums, tonsils, and soft palate. Tlie}? sometimes extend beyond the pillars of the fauces, and are seen upon the walls of the pharynx and the posterior nares. They have also been seen upon the epiglottis and mucous mem- brane of the larynx.3 When mucous patches occur near the angle of the mouth, they often extend into the muco-cutaneous structures at the commissure of the lips, where they form cracks and fissures which possess the characteristic pearly-gray color of these lesions, and where they are often continuous with a patch of the small flat papular or pustular syphiloderm. On the dorsum of the tongue their base is sometime^ hard, indurated, and fissured; or the pellicle which covers them 1 See above under Sources of Syphilitic Contagion. 2 Bumstead and Taylor. » Ibid.