424 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. Varieties of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. According to the appearances which the chancroid presents during the different stages of its progress, it has received a variety of names, to wit: the follicular, the herpetiform, the ecthymatous, the ulcus elevatum, and the exuleerous. This multiplicity of names is to be regretted, as liable to pro- duce confusion, and to obscure the fact that the lesions to which they are applied are accidents in the course of the disease, rather than well-defined varieties of the ulcer. Thus, when the matter of a chancroid is deposited within a follicle, its first appearance is as a small nodule surmounted by a slight depression, with a grayish floor. This nodule is due to the distended follicle, and the depressed apex corresponds to the mouth of the duct of the follicle. It should be borne in mind that the small ulcer does not represent the real extent of the chan- croid, inasmuch as the destructive action has been advancing more rapidly in the interior of the follicle than appears externally, and that hence these fol- licular chancroids should be laid open prior to cauterization, so as to allow of a thorough destruction of the ulcer. The herpetiform chancroid is simply one which is seen very early in its course, before the contents of the vesicle have become purulent, and is apt to lead to error by causing the chancroid to be mistaken for a simple attack of herpes. Its subsequent course differs in no respect from that of an ordinary chancroid. The ecthymatous chancroid is simply one which has been covered with a crust by the drying of the secretion from exposure to the air. Removal of the crust reveals all the usual characteristics of the ulcer. The ulcus elevatum has been a source of much confusion, owing to its simu- lating the initial lesion of syphilis. It is due to causes which have already been discussed in a previous portion of this article. This ulcer is usually attended with marked inflammation and exudation about the base, which cause an elevation of the tissue upon the apex of which the ulceration is seated; hence the name. As the inflammation subsides the elevation becomes flattened, and the ulcer in its subsequent course exhibits all the characteristics of the chancroid. The exuleerous chancroid is a superficial chancroid, in which from the feeble- ness of the inflammation the destructive action is very slight, the edges are hardly undermined, and the secretion is scanty instead of being abundant. Indeed, to all intents and purposes this ulceration is a chancroid which is incapable of extension, and which resembles in many respects an acute erosion of balanitis. It is hardly deserving of the separate classification accorded it by M. Clerc. Locality of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. Until within a few years it was believed that certain regions of the body were exempt from being the seat of the simple venereal ulcer. Indeed, Ricord, as lately as in 1860, taught the following doctrine: “Up to the present there is no well-authenticated case of a soft chancre [that is, a chancroid] developed upon the face, or, to put it in more general terms, of a cephalic soft chancre.”1 Later experience, however, proves that cephalic chancroids do occur in suf- ficient number to demonstrate their existence, and to permit us to take exception to Ricord’s formulated teaching given above. Leyons sur le Chancre, p. 18.