709 BURS.® OF SHOULDER AND VICINITY. of the teres major and the humerus, extending also between this tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi; another between the latissimus dorsi tendon and the humerus; one between the biceps tendon and the humerus ; one between the latissimus dorsi and the inferior angle of the scapula; and finally, one beneath the same angle of the scapula and the chest-wall (infra-serratus). Sub-acromial or Sub-deltoid Bursa.—This sac is quite often affected, and, owing to the somewhat peculiar symptoms to which its inflammation gives rise, I deem it worthy of an extended notice. It is probable that the so- called luxation of the long head of the biceps is really due to chronic bursitis of this sac, for all the symptoms attributed to that lesion are present in such an inflammation, with others which are irreconcilable with the existence of any displacement of the tendon. Symptoms.—There is some wasting of the shoulder muscles in chronic cases. A fluctuating swelling, easily felt when the deltoid is relaxed, and bulging on either, but preferably on the anterior, side of the tendon, will often be found in chronic cases characterized by marked effusion. Pressure will perhaps drive the fluid from one side to the other, and under such circum- stances melon-seed bodies can be detected slipping from beneath the fingers. If the arm is supported, its movements are not painful when it is applied to the side, but when unsupported, or when traction is made upon it, pain will fol- low movement. Pressing the joint surfaces together produces no discomfort. If the arm be abducted beyond a right angle, there will be pain, while at the same time a peculiar crackling sensation, sometimes accompanied by a feeling as of a foreign body slipping away under the acromion, will be felt. If the arm is brought to the side these symptoms will cease, and as the arm is de- pressed a slipping sensation, as if due to the reduction of a displaced tendon, will often be perceived. There will be moi’e or less flexion of the forearm, due to rigidity of the biceps, and a feeling of fatigue at the bend of the elbow will be complained of. It will be seen that these symptoms closely correspond to those which are said to be produced by luxation of the tendon of the biceps. Jarjavay,1 dis- believing in luxation of the tendon, on the anatomical grounds that the ex- ceptionally strong fibrous sheath hy which it is bound down could not be ruptured without simultaneously tearing off the supra-spinatus tendon, and that such a degree of force would almost necessarily luxate the humerus, exam- ined a number of patients with the following results. The seat of the most marked acuity of pain was on a line with the apex of the acromion, two and a half centimetres outside of the position of the tendon. Every move- ment except that of abduction merely produced slight discomfort, but during this movement the pain and crackling were marked. In exti’eme abduction, rotation either outwards or inwards produced similar pain and crackling, except when an assistant depressed the proximal extremity of the humerus by pressure over the upper part of the arm, whereby the two bursal surfaces were no longer nipped between the tuberosity of the humerus and the under surface of the acromion. By dividing the origin of the deltoid and laying the muscle up over the clavicle, the bursa will be exposed, when it will be easily seen that a twist of the arm, especially when either flexed or extended, may stretch or actually tear its walls. This is just the injury supposed to produce luxation of the biceps tendon. If now the arm be abducted, the bursal walls will be folded up so as to form a sort of collar in advance of the greater tuberosity of the humerus, so that it will be readily seen how, when thick- ened by inflammation, these now rigid plications will be compressed under the 1 Gazette des Hop., Fev. 1868, p. 97.