INSECT-STINGS. 91 position; petechite. Heart flabby, hemorrhages in its walls; endocardium blood-stained ; often pericardial effusion ; blood fluid. Lungs hypercemic ; small scattered hemorrhages in them; oedema, true pneumonia, or metastatic abscesses, or sometimes hemorrhagic infarcts. (The smaller hemorrhages were due to em]x>li formed of bacilli, the larger to acute nutrient disturbances of walls of bloodvessels or tissues.) Bronchial glands swollen, soft, or purple and blackish; bronchial mucous membrane reddened, with hemorrhagic extra- vasations; pharynx and trachea hypersemic. Abdominal organs congested, with various hemorrhages. Spleen large and soft; kidneys congested, and the seat of cloudy swelling. Often acute intestinal catarrh, and swollen mesenteric glands. Sometimes albuminuric hemorrhages in the brain. Serous or serous and bloody, jelly-like infiltrations in the connective tissues, especially in the neck and mediastinum, in the sub-pleural and peri-renal tissue. Bacilli were usually detected in the blood and extra-vascular fluids. A curious fact was noticed—that this disease was apt to be developed by the eating of vegetable food, and thus to occur after the Sunday indulgence in this diet, usual with the wool-sorters. Insect-Stings. Very few insects can properly be said to bite, as they have not the appa- ratus for so doing; they insert a terebra or aculeus, and then suck, by means of a haustellum or sucker. In this act, they inject at the same time an irri- tating secretion of a peculiar kind for each species, but always acid. Most of them, in inflicting the injuries they do upon man, are simply obtaining nourishment, not attacking him; but there are some, as the bees and wasps, which are provided with poison-glands and stings as weapons of offence and defence. Of some varieties, as for example the mosquito, it is the female only that stings; the males do not leave their breeding places. There are such differences between the effects of the stings of various in- sects, as would seem to indicate the possession of a specific character by each. Thus the bedbug causes a white wheal, surrounded by an area of redness, with intense burning itching, which, however, very soon disappears, and finally. When the bug is a very small young one, the wheals produced by it are correspondingly small, although they may itch intensely. Usually there are a number of punctures near together, marking the course of the insect as it crawls over the skin, each one being the centre of a separate wheal. For a few hours, the irritation may be re-developed by scratching. When in the eyelids, the swelling that ensues may be so great as to temporarily close them. The mosquito induces a red swelling, somewhat conical, persistent, the irri- tation of which recurs occasionally, with or without apparent cause, for days. There is a different variety of mosquito, which comes with the first warm days of spring, and gives rise to a wheal like that from the bedbug, after- wards assuming the characters of the ordinary mosquito-bite. Two cases of severe mosquito-bite are thought worthy of special record by Mr. G. Thin.1 A medical man is said to have been “ so cruelly bitten on the face and head, that he was much disfigured.” In the case of a young lady, residing in the same hotel, “ the bites were chiefly on the nose and upper parts of the cheek, and were seen as large, raised, flattened vesicles—not unlike a vaccine pustule, with a central de- pressed dark point, which corresponded to the point bitten. These vesicles had been confluent over the nose, and produced an appearance of impetiginous eczema, with well 1 Lancet, Aug. 27, 1881.