GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 188 be general and purulent, because of the escape of blood, and its admixture with air from the exterior, or from the opened air vesicles or bronchial tubes. When the entrance wound is large, or the pleural effusion abundant, com- pression of the lung takes place—to be subsequently, in cases that recover, more or less relieved by absorption or discharge. Lesions of the pericardium or heart, if not quickly fatal, give rise to pericar- ditis and endocarditis of varying extent and duration, and a lodged shot may become encapsulated. Mediastinal wounds may cause suppurative or gangre- nous cellulitis. Diagnosis of Penetrating Wounds.—The diagnosis of penetration, aside from cases in which an external opening is associated with profuse haemoptysis, is often by no means easy, and is to be based upon an aggregation of symptoms rather than upon any one symptom by itself. Spitting of blood may be pre- sent when the lesion does not directly affect the lung. Shock, perhaps in high degree, may show itself when the lung is undamaged, and is often absent even when a fatal penetrating wound has been received. Severe bleeding may arise from an intercostal or the internal mammary artery, and hcemothorax is not uncommon after a lesion of the former. In pneumothorax, the air may come from without, and in the very rare cases of emphysema which follow7 a bullet wound, the effused air may have been sucked in from the surrounding atmos- phere, and not forced out of lacerated air-vesicles or tubes. Traumatopnoea, while it shows that there is an opening of the pleural cavity, does not prove that the lung has been torn. Dyspnoea from pleural accumulations of blood, air, or pus, cannot be regarded as pathognomonic, since each of these exciting causes may exist independently of lung w7ound. The late-occurring lumbar ecchymosis of Valentin is very often absent, and is of no special importance in the cases in which it does occur, having really little or no diagnostic value. From the presence of two wounds, perforation cannot be predicated, since the ball may have run around the body, or the patient may have been struck by twro shots. Early and persistent, marked reduction of temperature furnishes strong presumptive evidence of visceral lesion. Injury of the heart or peri- cardium is rendered probable by quickly appearing, great shock and precor- dial oppression, with succeeding pericarditis or endocarditis. Prognosis.—The prognosis of these penetrating wounds is very grave. Among the Russian wounded in Sympheropol 98.5 per cent, of those w7ho v7ere thus injured died, as did 91.6 per cent, among the French and 79.26 per cent, among the English in the Crimea. Of 7929 cases observed during our w7ar 5169 (65.19 per cent.) ended fatally, and if the noil-fatal cases in which errors of diagnosis were made could be eliminated, the mortality rate would unquestionably be carried decidedly higher. In civil life—the missiles, as a rule, being smaller, the cases coming under treatment earlier, and the patients not being subjected to added dangers from transportation—the prognosis is more favorable, but still bad enough. Even in cases which do not terminate fatally, in both military and civil practice, long-continuing or permanent fis- tulse may remain. Heart wounds, when made by large balls, almost always prove quickly fatal; when made by small bullets or shot, life may be pro- longed for a considerable period of time, and recovery even may take place. In a case which I have elsewhere reported, and which was under my own observa- tion from the time of injury to that of death, three years and two months later, a small pistol-ball, as was proved by an autopsy, passed through three of the four cavities ol the heart, and lodged in the root of the right lung—the boy, aged 15, ultimately dying of the effects of the cardiac disease.