GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 300 immediately coagulated, and which can now be readily removed, being firmer in consistence, and more amenable to manipulation. This being once effectually done, is usually sufficient to arrest the progress of the disease. If it does not, the failure will be readily recognized by the continuance of the fetor, which disappears immediately when the work has been efficiently executed. It must be obvious that such results as these are consistent only with the doctrine of local disease, and that any other methods of cauterization which can be applied to the surface and are sufficient to procure entire destruction of the dying tissue, will also secure a favorable result, and hence we find, from the beginning of any description of this disease, that while the constitu- tional symptoms have seemed to many surgeons to be the first expression of its invasion, they still have not failed to use escharotics of various kinds. Nitric acid, caustic potassa, and the actual cautery, are efficient enough, but are incapable of being applied as completely and safely as the mild escharo- tic, bromine, which rapidly passing from the liquid to the gaseous condition, presses itself into the tissues in a way that no other caustic does. When the stump of an amputated limb is attacked, the space between the muscles must also be treated in the same manner as the subcutaneous tissue. It is surpris- ing how rapidly the constitutional symptoms subside, when these measures have been carried out as described ; a healthy, granulating surface appearing as soon as the slough is thrown off. Charcoal and yeast poultices, which have no efficiency in this form of gangrene, but which formerly had a good deal of reputation in all other varieties, might now be applied with some benefit; and yet these have been largely superseded by lint saturated with Labar- raque’s solution, chlorine water, carbolic acid water (1 to 5 per cent, solution), and solutions of permanganate of potassium. Indeed, at this stage of the disease, disinfectants are hardly required. The constitutional treatment must be according to that known as the sup- porting plan. There can be nothing that can claim the character of a specific for hospital gangrene. Opium is clearly indicated in consequence of the pain and restlessness of the patient, and, notwithstanding the anorexia, stimulants and tonics must be steadily administered. But constitutional remedies can only ameliorate symptoms; they cannot remove the disease. For the prevention of the spread of hospital gangrene from one patient to others in the same ward, the most punctilious cleanliness is necessary. Sponges should not be used, unless burned immediately afterward, and the dressings removed from the diseased surfaces must he destroyed. The com- plete covering of a healthy wound with such materials as would protect it from the contact of contaminating substances, even when transmitted through the atmosphere, is urgently demanded. During our late war, syrups were spread upon the wounds, and sugar was also dusted on them, and these agents secured the desired ends very well; but perhaps the most efficient article of this kind which was employed, was the Peruvian balsam, the tenacious character of which made it a good shield. But long before this period, similar precautions had been used. M. Denonvilliers employed glycerine at the St. Louis Hospital with great advantage. He covered the wound with a fenestrated compress, spread with cerate and immersed in glycerine, over which charpie soaked in the same substance was also placed. He declares that the pain ceased almost immediately, and that the progress of the gangrene was arrested. As far back as 1848 and 1849, Prof. Restelle treated four hundred cases of hospital gangrene in the military hospital of Alexandria, and had an experience which confirms the views herein expressed both with reference to the nature and the treatment of this