GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 306 constant phenomena in the part affected, and usually in the blood and urine when the attack of diphtheria is severe. But it is also known that these same forms are present on the tongue without gangrene, and do not differ from those found in the blood after this condition has supervened. It is true, doubts of the existence of these minute forms have been entertained, but the testimony of competent observers is uniform in affirming their presence. Still, until we find that the forms which are met with in different diseases are distinct, we must regard their presence as secondary, and not as primary causes. These remarks apply to the existence of the so-called micrococci: it is well known that bacteria of various kinds do exist in the decomposing exudates, either gangrenous or purulent, and, indeed, are the constant con- comitants of decomposition. The experiments of Koch, on mice, connected the presence of micrococci very distinctly with the necrotic process, without the presence of diphtheritic exudates. Indeed, the inoculations were made with gangrenous fluids, and not with diphtheritic membrane. But it is impossible to separate these forms from the fluid in which they exist. The question of cause and effect still remains open. Nevertheless it is urged that the blood corpuscles are invaded with the minute forms which fill them, and appear to live upon their substance, attaining at maturity the magnitude of a thirty-thousandth of an inch. If, however, these are to be seen in the healthy person, upon the tongue, one can hardly avoid looking for another cause, still antecedent, which may foster them and permit them to proceed deep into the tissues—assisting and, indeed, completing the destructive process, but not themselves its source and origin. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition, when on the surface of wounds, is not different from that proper for hospital gangrene. It must be thorough to be efficient. If a portion is left untouched, the disease is renewed upon the same surface. Bedsores. These painful and dangerous sores (Plate Y. Fig. 2) occur far more readily in some persons than in others. The direct cause is too constant pressure upon a given point. But this is also aggravated by special conditions. If the patient is thin and emaciated by long-continued suppuration, the bones have a power of pressure which they would otherwise not possess. In such persons, every point thus exposed will take on, in the first place, a low grade of inflammation, with a reddish-purple color of the skin, and a tendency to grow darker as the disease advances. The skin losing its vitality, an ulcer is usually formed, at first small, and over the point of greatest pressure. But as the process of destruction goes on, a slough is formed, which extends inwards to the periosteum, or to the fascia investing the muscle, which also gives way if the pressure is continued. The most common sites for this form of gangrene are the sacrum and great trochanters, but it will appear at any point where the pressure is sufficient. It is also more readily produced in persons who are paralyzed; for this con- dition is apt to render the pressure more constant and absolute, while the cir- culation becomes more languid. It is also especially liable to occur in per- sons who have become feeble in consequence of some wasting sickness, or who have an exceedingly painful joint, as the knee or hip, that compels absolute quiescence. Such patients are also often afflicted with incontinence of urine. The skin and subcutaneous tissue yield with wonderful facility, and the sore, which at first was a mere point, rapidly extends so as to uncover the whole