477 SYPHILITIC FEVER. commenced by inquiring into its condition before the administration of the drug, and during the existence of chancre. In ten cases studied by Wilbouchewitch, the average diminution of red corpuscles was 638,870 (the normal figures being taken as from 4,200,000 to 6,477,000), while the increase in the white corpuscles was 550, the propor- tion being 1 white corpuscle to 448 red corpuscles, instead of 1 white to 530 red, the average normal proportion. Of course this impoverished condition of the blood would be likely to lead to various characteristic symptoms, and thus we find in some cases disorders of circulation, irregularity in the action of the heart, murmurs in the larger vessels, pallor, epistaxis, and occasionally oedema of the lower extremities. In addition, general malaise, loss of energy, and a constant sense of fatigue; nervous symptoms, such as vertigo, insomnia, and headache, particularly of <4 temporo-frontal character; also vague and diffuse pains of various sorts—some- times in the muscles, giving rise to simulated torticollis, pleurodynia, or lum- bago—at other times concentrated in the joints or in the shafts of the long bones; in a word, any or all of the symptoms of an anaemic condition. While these symptoms of anaemia are not well marked in every case of early syphilis, yet one or another is almost always present in cases of average severity. Syphilitic Fever.—There are few cases of syphilis which, if closely watched, will not show some febrile movement, and occasionally the fever plays a prominent part in the history of the case. It is sometimes the chief symptom which the patient recalls subsequently, when examined as to the early history of the disease. The fever of syphilis commonly makes its ap- pearance from the fiftieth to the sixty-fifth day after contagion, perhaps on an average in from the third to the fifth week after the appearance of the chancre. Its outbreak is usually preceded by one or two days of headache and prostra- tion, followed by a more or less violent chill. The temperature commonly varies from 100.4° to 102.2° F., but in some rare cases it may reach 104°, 104.9°, and even 105.4°. (Fournier indeed reports a ease where the tempera- ture reached 107°.) Courteaux1 describes three distinct varieties of syphilitic fever, as follows:— (1) The intermittent form, comprising a series of isolated attacks with intervals of complete apyrexia, is the most common. These attacks resemble very closely those of malarial intermittent fever. They usually begin in the evening, and last about twelve hours, occasionally assuming a quotidian type, but more frequently following an irregular course. Although following the usual routine of chill, fever, and sweating, they do this in a less complete and less regular manner than is the case in malarial intermittent, the stages of chill and sweating being scarcely perceptible, and, in fact, rarely being noticed by patients, who complain of the fever only. What is commonly observed is continuous fever, broken transitorily by intermittent chills, the sweats also occurring from time to time during the attacks of fever. The spleen is not enlarged. This form of syphilitic fever yields readily to the in- fluence of mercury, but is entirely uninfluenced by quinine. 1 These de Paris, 1871, written under the inspiration of Fournier. (Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie, t. iii., p. 213.) In addition, reference may he made to the writings of Guntz (Das syphilitische Fieber. Leipsic, 1873) ; Bremer (Nordiskt med. Ark., 1874, and Gaz. Hebdomadaire, Mars, 1875) ; Vajda, TJeber das syphilitische Fieber und den Stoffweclisel syphili- tischer (Vierteljahrsschr. f. Derm. u. Sypli. 2te Jahrg., 1875, S. 147), and with annotations by R. W. Taylor (Archives of Dermatology, vol. iii., 1877, p. 162) ; and, finally, Fournier, op. cit., 2e 6d., p. 643.