ARROW WOUNDS. 103 arm were frequent. These were inflicted by a draw cut of the hack of the sabre, which was kept as sharp as a razor for this purpose. Such a wound should be treated, after the arteries are secured, by placing the limb on a splint so arranged as to flex both the fingers and the hand, and by adopting a strictly antiseptic dressing. Bayonet Wounds.—Bayonet wounds penetrating the skull were in our late war generally fatal—four deaths having occurred in five cases. The penetrating bayonet wounds of the chest seem to have been equally fatal, whilst of eleven patients who received bayonet wounds of the abdomen—in some of the eases the bowel was transfixed—eight recovered. The cardinal point in the treatment of bayonet wounds is to secure rest. If a limb is hurt, it should be put on a splint, and a bandage applied to keep the muscles quiet, and the patient should be required to keep the horizontal position. If the lung is wounded, opium should be given to secure rest, and Guthrie’s rule, to lie upon the wounded side, might be enjoined. If the abdomen has been penetrated, opium must be given in very large doses, or rather very decided effects must be produced by the opium, and the patient’s diet must be most strictly guarded. The patient must of course be kept in bed until all risk of peritonitis has passed by. Arrow Wounds. History op Arrow Wounds.—The arrow is a weapon of the greatest anti- quity. Hot only can we infer its possession by primitive man, from its use at the present day by the most savage tribes, but the earliest writings and the oldest sculptures, and the treasures of the caves, all testify that from its infancy the human race has drawn the bow. Accordingly we find that the arrow was of particular interest to the surgeons of antiquity, who discussed at length the wounds which it caused, giving specific rules for the treatment of the wounded, and inventing instruments for the removal of the missile. Homer, in the Iliad, tells us at length of the wounding of Machaon by the arrow of Paris, and in another place is described some bad surgery of Maehaon’s, in which Menelaus, wounded by an arrow, was the sufferer. The Father of Medicine devoted a book, but unfortunately one of the lost books, to missiles and the wounds made by them. Celsus gives a chapter to arrow wounds, and from him we know pretty much all that is known of these lesions as they were seen in his day. Celsus lays down some excellent rules for the treatment of these wounds: thus he advises free dilatation with the knife, to allow perfect exploration by the finger, and teaches that an arrow may be removed as well and very often better by pushing it forward to emergence, than by pulling it back over the course already taken.1 Paulus yEgirieta2 merely reiterates the teachings of Celsus, as does Albucasis.3 The ancients surpassed our Indians in the destructiveness of their inven- tion, for they contrived arrow heads with barbs pointing forwards as well as backwards, and attached scraps of metal, which might be unwittingly left behind by the surgeon, if he should be so skilful as to extract a doubly- barbed arrow. They had, besides, a crescentiform arrow head Avith a keen edge, with which instrument a man could almost be decapitated. Pare gives considerable space to arrow and spear wounds. In his day, the arrow was fastened to the shaft in two different ways. Most commonly, the arrow head at its base terminated in a spike, which was driven into the 1 Medicinse, lib. vii. cap. v. 2 Lib. vi. cap. lxxxviii. 3 Chirurgia, lib. ii.