GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 175 both tables must almost certainly be broken, since the sinus is undeveloped until at or about the period of puberty. Though, occasionally, fracture of both tables with greater or less splinter- ing of the internal may occur, without depression of the outer, ordinarily the latter condition is well marked, the portion driven down being, at times, quite limited in area, and the fracture a punctured one, but, as a rule, of con- siderable extent and accompanied with widely extending fissures. The com- minution associated with penetrating or perforating wounds is in no small degree, doubtless, due to the hydrostatic pressure developed in the traversed brain. Busch and Kocher’s experiments have shown that “ in firing at short distance into a skull filled with soft brain-substance, the cranial walls are broken up in all directions and widely scattered.” Fractures by contre-coup (if such they may be named) may thus be produced by the force of a grazing or penetrating shot, transmitted through the semi-solid cerebral mass to some part of the base of the skull, as in the form of fracture met with in President Lincoln’s case,1 two examples of which have been noticed by Long- more, while six others, from the Russo-Turkish war, have not long since been recorded by Bergmann, of Wurzburg—one or both orbital plates being broken, with or without associated lesion of the ethmoid bone. As indicative of the existence of such a basal injury in connection with wound of some part of the vault, may be mentioned “ retrobulbar extravasation and exoph- thalmos, associated probably with a lesion of some of the motor nerves of the eyeball, or even of the optic nerve” (Bergmann); and, if the cribriform plate of the ethmoid has been fractured, anosmia. The diagnosis of gunshot fractures of the skull, if other than linear, and if occupying the vault or sides, is usually easy—the ordinarily associated tegu- mentary wound permitting a ready determination by finger or probe of the existence of a break. At times, however, even when the shot has penetrated, the elasticity of the skull, aided very probably by the tension of the dura mater, and perhaps by the pulsatile force of the brain itself, may so perfectly restore the fragments to position as to make it exceedingly difficult, it may be impossible, to recognize the osseous lesion, or, still more, to detect an existing penetration with lodgment of a foreign body. In the latter case, the establishment of the diagnosis may be greatly facilitated by the possible presence of a shred of clothing or a hair, carried in by the shot and caught between the edges of the break, as in the case reported by Assistant Surgeon Howard, U. S. A.,2 though a hair may be driven in by a missile which does not penetrate.3 When it is the base of the skull that has been broken, the ball having entered through the face or neck, and when the patient lives long enough to come under treatment—the nature of the injury, if recognized 'at all, will be so by determination of the length and direction of the track of the bullet, and by observation of the ordinary symptoms of basal fracture produced by violence other than gunshot. Escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, if it occurs, may, ! President Lincoln was killed by a bullet which “ entered through the occipital bone about an inch to the left of the median line, and just above the left lateral sinus . . . passed through the left posterior lobe of the cerebrum . . . and lodged in the white matter . . just above the anterior portion of the left corpus striatum. Both the orbital plates of the frontal bones were broken.” 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1871. 3 As in the case reported from the Crimean war, in which, an undepressed fracture of the upper part of the frontal bone having been caused by a shell-fragment, the spontaneously separated portion of the external table “ contained a fissure in its centre, into which some hair had been driven and firmly impacted.” (Matthew.)