123 DIAGNOSIS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Bones.—The violent impact of a hall or piece of shell will produce either contusion or fracture. The fracture is very rarely simple, though such an accident may result from the blow of a piece of wood, or iron, or stone, set in motion by a gunshot projectile which has struck it. It is ordinarily com- minuted, frequently extensively so, though there may be (rarely it is true) pene- tration or perforation without shattering. The contusion may be so slight as to cause little or no damage; so severe as to at once destroy the life of the part struck; or, as generally happens, sufficient to light up destructive in- flammation. Penetration and lodgment of the missile may occur; the bullet, if not removed, either becoming encapsulated, or, as is generally the case, causing inflammation and suppuration, and being often, months or years afterwards,found lying loose in an abscess cavity. When it is a long bone that has been pierced, the shot or a part of it may, as ill a case reported by Sur- geon-general Murray of the British Army, drop down in the medullary cavity, and, by its presence, keep up an osteomyelitis of low grade. Diagnosis of Gunshot Wounds. That a gunshot -wound has been received, is generally determined by the history of the case and the observation of an abnormal opening or openings upon the surface of the body. Very seldom does it happen, except in attempts at suicide, that the bullet enters by a natural orifice, though it may do so.1 Ordinarily, the points to be decided are: (1) Whether or not penetration and lodgment have occurred; (2) What course the ball has taken; and (3) Whether the discovered multiple wounds are due to a single shot or to several. At first sight it would seem to be a very simple matter to determine that a bullet had lodged, a single opening only being found. But it may already have been removed, or it may have rebounded, as happens at times when the skull or other comparatively superficial bone has been struck, owing to the elasticity—not of the lead—but of the osseous tissue; or, what not infre- quently happens in cases of spent balls, particularly round ones, it may have been drawn out by the clothing, a part of which, uncut, had been carried like a glove finger over and in front of it. Inspection should always be made, therefore, of the clothing that covered the wounded part. Much more difficult is it oftentimes to know in what direction the ball has passed, and where it has stopped. The clothing is to be examined, and the position noted of the openings in the various layers, relatively to each other and to the skin wound. The body is to be placed as nearly as possible in the same position as when struck, if this can be determined; a rule of practice as old as the time of Pare. The direction in which the shot was fired, if known, must be taken into consideration. By use of the probe, or better, the finger, the track is to be followed, as far as possible, or until penetration of one of the great cavities is ascertained. A conical bullet, moving at full speed, ordinarily passes straight from the point of entrance to the place of lodgment, if it does not, as it is likely to do, pass through and out; but it is a mistake to declare, as has been done by many, that deflection cannot take place. Fascite, and still more bone, wfill at times turn the bullet aside. Pistol balls are not infrequently thus affected. I have seen, for instance, a case in which the shot, entering the right temple, passed through the anterior lobes 1 This was instanced in the case of a distinguished general officer during our late war, who was killed by a shot that passed in through the anus. Gillette reports, on the authority of a M. Boissimon, a hardly credible story of a French officer who was shot in the face, the ball enter- ing through the anterior nares, passing back and striking the posterior pharyngeal walls, and rebounding through the mouth.