SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 632 the closest apposition, and retained there by means of stitches, sticking plas- ter, etc If, however, the penis has already become buried in the tumor, then the operation undergoes several modifications. These are the formation of an oblong, quadrangular flap of reserve to cover the penis, the formation of two oval lateral flaps .... to form an artificial scrotum, the removal of the pouch formed by the orignal covering of the penis, the separation of the testes and spermatic cords from the surrounding mass, etc.” Dr. Osgood,1 of the Foochow Hospital, reports sixty successful operations of this character in China, many of the tumors having been of enormous size. [Of 28 cases operated on by Fayrer, 22 ended in recovery and 6 in death: one from shock, and the remainder from pyaemia. The same surgeon, from an analysis of 193 cases, gives the general death-rate of the operation as 18 per cent. To diminish bleeding during the operation, the part should be elevated for some hours previously, and the neck of the tumor should be compressed with a clamp (Fayrer), a running noose (Mactier), or an Esmarch’s tube as employed by Partridge and Cayley, of Calcutta.] In Elephayitiasis teleangiectodes the vascular growths may be treated in their early stages as large nsevi, according to the ordinary rules of surgery; when, however, they are of any considerable extent, but little benefit can be ob- tained from any method of treatment. Rosacea Hypertrophica. Closely allied, in its most advanced stages, to the elephantiasis above de- scribed, is the affection commonly called Acne rosacea. This title is not a good one, because the acne often found associated with the affection is not an essential pai't of it. This is a chronic disease of the integument of the face, characterized by redness, by enlargement of the capillary vessels, and by hypertrophy of the cutaneous connective tissue, in the form either of promi- nent elevations, or of general thickening of the skin. The seat of the dis- ease is principally the nose, but it may extend to the chin, cheeks, and fore- head, and, in rare instances, to the scalp. The first evidence of its appearance is a redness, a chronic blush, as it were, of the end of the nose, which Hebra well describes as looking as if “ frost-bitten.” At a later period, there will almost always be associated with this redness an enlargement of the superfi- cial capillaries of the nose and cheeks, appearing as a network of bright-red vessels. In this form, the disease is a frequent affection, in greater or less degree, with women, and more so than that which is accompanied by devel- opment of true acneiform inflammation of the follicles, and by seborrhoea. The redness varies in degree and tint, according to the temperature, the time of day, the condition of the patient, etc., being sometimes of a fiery scarlet, and at other times of a livid, purplish hue. This condition may last indefi- nitely, and may never progress to the more advanced forms of the affection. In the second degree, firm, nodular elevations, varying in size from that of a small to that of a large pea, are developed upon the hypereemic skin of the nose and cheeks—which are themselves red—and may soften and be resolved, or may terminate in permanently organized protuberances. In the highest degree, and after long continuance of these earlier forms, the affection presents more prominent outgrowths from the surface of the skin, varying in shape or size, and elastic to the touch ; or the tip of the nose or the abe may take on a similar hypertrophy; or the whole organ may develop to an astonishing size,justifying the expression in common use in Germany—“pound-nose.’ Medical Record, April 8, 1876.