163 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE WRIST. formed for disease, succeeds admirably? In nearly one-half of Gurlt’s cases (45 per cent.), the individuals were, years later, altogether unable to support themselves. In only three out of every ten (104 out of 355), could active movements be fairly well made, and could the other joints, particularly those of the fingers, be said to be in perfect condition. In more than seven out of every ten (251 out of 355), there was either a “ dangle-joint,” or such a fixed twist of the arm that the usefulness of the hand was greatly impaired, or an anchylosis at a very obtuse angle (189); or muscular paralysis, or deformity and stiffness of the other joints, especially of the hand (51); or such persist- ent pain as to make the arm worse than useless (11). Of the primary exci- sions, only one in five was followed by a favorable result, and of the secondary, only three in ten ; while of the very late operations, which much resemble those for disease, more than one-half ended 'well. Anchylosis, which is, of course, much more likely to follow partial than complete excision, if it is uncomplicated and takes place at a good angle (from 90° to 130°), leaves a very useful arm. Through fear of an exceed- ingly loose joint, many, especially of the Continental surgeons, have directed their efforts to the securing of an immovable elbow; and of the two condi- tions of the part, the latter, if the forearm and arm are relatively properly placed, is much the better. But in more than half of Gurlt’s cases of mov- able joint, there was no flail-like condition; and in many of the ancliylosed limbs, if passive motion had been instituted as soon as suppuration became much lessened, or as soon as it could be employed without the patient ex- periencing much pain, and had it been kept up long after cicatrization was completed, there can be no question but that a very valuable, movable joint would have been secured, and muscular atrophy largely prevented. This atrophy, which especially affects the muscles of the arm, and of these the triceps most extensively, depends, in part- at least, upon disuse; and, if in the operation the muscular insertions have been respected, by beginning passive motion as soon as it can be safely permitted, and by allowing active motion as early as it can be made, the wasting will certainly be in no small degree controlled. Expectation results badly; so does exsection. Nothing but future observation, on a large scale, can determine which is the preferable mode of treatment. What shall be done with gunshot wounds of the elbow, is one of the vexed questions which will demand consideration in the next great war, wherever it may be waged. Gunshot Injuries of the Wrist. Gunshot wounds of the wrist, decidedly more frequent on the left than on the right side, are almost always attended with fracture; are much more dangerous, as far as the part itself is concerned, when the ball has passed from side to side than when it has gone through the antero-posterior diameter of the joint, and are frequently associated with extensive injury to the lower end of the radius or ulna, or both, and often with severe damage to the second row of carpal bones and to the metacarpus. Great destruction of the joint and of the lower part of the forearm necessitates in military, though not so certainly in civil practice, amputation; an operation attended with a mortality of about ten per cent. (9.6 per cent, in the 1007 primary cases during our war). In wounds of lesser severity, the treatment may be either by expectancy or by excision; the former method, according to Otis’s tables, resulted‘fatally in 7.6 per cent-., and the latter in 13.2 per cent., of the cases in which they were respectively adopted, though there were numerous cases “ treated at the outset by expectation, in which excision or amputation was