576 SYPHILIS. lesions of syphilis is slight, hut on the later lesions, especially gummatous tumors, affections of the bones, brain-troubles, etc., the influence of iodine is sometimes almost magical. The iodine compounds alone do not, however, as a general thing, possess the power of permanently removing the lesions which they cause to disappear so quickly, and mercury must usually be resorted to in order to obtain a permanently favorable result. The dose of the iodides must vary greatly with different cases. In mild cases, the iodide of potassium—which may be taken as a representative of the class—may be given in doses of from two or three to eight or ten grains three times a day; but in brain-troubles, it is sometimes necessary to give the remedy immediately in large doses, and frequently as much as an ounce or more is taken thus by the patient in the course of twenty-four hours. The iodide of potassium may be given in five-grain compressed pills or in solution. I think it less apt to disagree in the latter form. As it is very soluble in water, this fluid may he used as a menstruum with or without any adjuvant. I commonly give the iodide of potassium in water alone, as I think that the various flavoring substances which are employed, often fail to do more than partially disguise the nauseous metallic taste of the drug, and not infrequently give a strange and repulsive flavor to the mixture. The fol- lowing formula is one of the best when it is desired to hide the taste and appearance of the drug, as far as may be, and when a ferruginous tonic is required:— R—Potassii iodicli, 3VSS* Vini ferri, fgiv. M. A teaspoonful contains ten grains of the iodide of potassium. The action of iodide of potassium appears, I think, in some cases, to be increased by the addition of the carbonate of ammonium, as in the following formula:— R Potassii iodidi, 3iij. Ammonii carbonat. 3iss. Yini ferri, i§iv. M. A teaspoonful contains six grains of iodide of potassium and three grains of car- bonate of ammonium. Iodide of potassium agrees best when given from half an hour to an hour after eating. Griping, which is sometimes experienced, may often be obviated by the addition of a syrup containing tannic acid, added in substance, or as it occurs in cinchona or in orange peel, as in this formula:— R.—Potassii iodidi, 3j- Syr. aurantii corticis, f§vj. M. Dose, a tablespoonful, containing five grains of iodide of potassium. When giving iodide of potassium in large doses—and, in fact, when giving it in any case in which it is found to have a tendency to disorder the stomach— I add Arichy water, as suggested, I think, by Iveyes, directing the patient to pour into a small tumbler the dose desired to be taken of the simple aqueous solution of the iodide, and then to turn in a wineglassful or more of artificial Vichy water, from a portable fountain, such as is sold in the shops. This combination makes the iodide easier to take, and causes it to agree better with weak stomachs. The usual dose of iodide of potassium is from five to ten grains thrice daily, but this may, and often should be, surpassed in serious cases, especially when threatening symptoms show themselves. Symptoms will often yield to drachm doses which have stubbornly resisted ten-grain doses, and no case should be pronounced intractable to the iodide until this has been pushed to large amounts.