SYMPTOMS AND COMPLICATIONS OF SECOND OR STATIONARY STAGE. 335 due to the retention and decomposition of smegma, is a gonorrhoea. In dis- pensary practice, such patients are usually seen after having passed through the hands of an apothecary who, prescribing, as is usual with such persons, without making an examination, has administered a course of copaiba, sulphate of zinc, etc., in place of the soap and water which were all that was requisite. Of course no such mistake can be made by a careful prac- titioner ; but even he may be temporarily in doubt when the balanitis is complicated with a phimosis so tight as to prevent any view of the meatus. In these cases, however, subpreputial injections are the first essential of treatment in any case, and will soon allay the swelling, so as to permit of sufficient retraction of the prepuce to resolve all uncertainty. Paraphimosis, a condition in which the prepuce, retracted and caught be- hind the projecting corona glandis, cannot be brought forward, is a less frequent but more annoying and dangerous complication. The tense and rather inelastic edge of the preputial orifice constitutes the cause of the constriction, which grows tighter and tighter as swelling increases. The neighboring parts, at first oedematous, soon become infiltrated with inflammatory lymph, the re- turn of blood from the glans is interfered with, and, in extreme cases, ulce- ration or even extensive sloughing of the head of the penis has occurred, and would doubtless be more frequent were it not for the extraordinary blood supply of the glans, and the anastomosis between its vessels and those of the corpora cavernosa. The line of constriction (see Plate VI. Fig. 3) is situated a short distance behind the glans, immediately back of which is a furrow due to the normal depression existing there, intensified by the sur- rounding oedema. Back of this is a swollen fold of mucous membrane, which is the part of the inner layer of the prepuce, normally in contact with the posterior face and edge of the corona. Then is found a second and very deep furrow, which is the actual seat of the trouble, and behind this another prominent collar of swollen integument. It is attended with severe, sometimes excruciating pain, which does not disappear until either the pre- puce has been replaced, or the constriction has been relieved by division or by ulceration. It is often productive of deformity from cicatricial con- traction in those cases in which surgical interference lias been delayed or ineffective. These complications—balanitis, balano-posthitis, phimosis, and paraphimosis —are by far the most frequent which make their appearance during this early period of the disease, and have accordingly been described in their usual clinical order. The first stage, or that in which there is a progressive increase in the severity of the symptoms, is of variable duration, but under well- directed treatment commonly terminates in from five days to a week, after which, for a short time, the condition appears to remain stationary. Symptoms and Complications of Second or Stationary Stage. The discharge is still profuse, and the ardor urinse and chordee marked, and in some cases agonizing. Patients will complain bitterly that their com- fort during the day is interfered with by urgent calls to urinate, which they resist to the last possible moment, in a vain endeavor to avoid the pain occa- sioned by it; and that their rest at night is disturbed by frequently recurring erections, which are no less painful, and which often will not subside until some means be adopted for their reduction. During this period, which may be said to extend on an average from the seventh or eighth day to the