145 CONTUSION OF BONE. the cotton-dressing, intended by filtration to exclude all atmospheric germs; and, as the result of such treatment, of thirty-six patients submitted to ampu- tation from April to June, but thirteen died; one-half of the thigh amputa- tions were saved. Originally placing the cotton directly upon the surface of the wound, and keeping its edges apart, Guerin subsequently so modified this dressing that it was placed upon the cutaneous surface of the flaps, pre- viously brought together by several points of the interrupted suture. The advantages claimed for this method of dressing, besides its germ-excluding power, are the gentle and elastic pressure which it exercises, and the uniform and sufficiently elevated temperature which it maintains. It has never been much employed except by a few of the French surgeons, and by them chiefly or only in the treatment of amputation wounds. Gunshot Injuries of Bones and Joints. Aside from penetrating wounds of the cavities and injuries of large vessels, the great majority of dangerous gunshot wounds are those involving bones and joints. Contusion of Bone. When it is struck by a ball, a bone may be either contused or broken. As the result of a grazing shot, moving at a high rate of speed, or of the more direct blow of a small or large body whose velocity is not sufficient to produce fracture, the osseous tissue may be bruised; the consequences of such an injury differ from those of contusion of the soft parts only as far as they are necessarily modified by the peculiarities of histological structure. There may be either a simple jarring, attended by no appreciable symptoms other than those of the associated injury of the overlying tissues; or, what more often takes place, there maybe limited blood extravasation and consecutive inflam- mation ; or, as has been occasionally noticed, there may be immediate death of the bone at the point struck, and for a variable distance around. The first of these morbid conditions is of little importance, and is quickly recovered from, while the last can only result in the loss of the damaged part, the pro- cess of separation beginning very early, and being completed usually in from six to eight weeks; the thickness of the separated piece varies from that of the most superficially exfoliated scale to that of the bone itself, as, for instance, the two tables and interposed cliploe of a part of the cranial vault. As, ordinarily, contusion of the soft parts causes inflammation of them, so contusion of bone gives rise to periostitis, osteitis, or osteomyelitis—the three essential parts of bone (periosteum, bone proper, and medulla) being commonly associated in the morbid process. This inflammation ends in its usual ways: in resolution, in new formation, in gangrene or in suppuration, circumscribed or diffused; the two last mentioned terminations are by far the most import- ant. Not so very seldom, necrosis involving a considerable part of a long bone is produced by the jarring and resulting osteitis-of a raking shot. I have had occasion to remove from the tibia a sequestrum 8 inches in length, which resulted from the passage of a bullet across the bone just below the tuberosity; and Lidell has reported a very similar case (the bullet passing “ across the tibia about four inches below the patella, bruising the bone and slightly grooving the surface”), in which, five months after the receipt of the wound, “ a large part of the shaft of the tibia was necrosed and loosened, but not sufficiently detached to justify removal by operation.” Suppuration may be either periosteal or the result of osteo-myelitis. In VOL. II.—10