195 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. In penetrating wounds, surgeons have until recently been content to apply cold; to put on a bandage—even of plaster of Paris (Xeudorfcr); to maintain absolute rest; to prescribe a sparing liquid diet, and opium internally, until the inflammation has subsided. The administration of morphia has been pushed to such extremes that in many cases it has become a serious question whether death has resulted from the wound or from the treatment. But the excessive mortality of these injuries from hemorrhage, from acute septicaemia, or from rapidly developed, intense peritonitis, certainly indicates that some- thing more should often be done, and this “something” must be in the way of operative interference. The experience of the last twenty years has clearly demonstrated that the laying open of the peritoneum is not as dangerous as had previously been thought; that this serous membrane is a great lymph sac that will absorb septic material most readily and rapidly; and that for the prevention of a fatal result from such absorption, drainage must be secured. Whenever then the symptoms clearly indicate that extensive bleeding has recently occurred, or is still taking place; that the stomach or intestine has been opened; or that there has been an intra-peritoneal ex- travasation of urine or of bile — it certainly seems to be proper, r, vl the surgeon’s duty, to perform laparotomy, turn out all clots, tie such divided vessels as can be found, sew up the opening or openings in the intestinal tube, thoroughly cleanse the cavity, and provide for the ready outflow of any fluid that may after- wards be poured out. As declared by McGuire, “If it is urged that the means suggested are desperate, it can be said in reply that the peril is so extreme that, as now treated, nearly all die ; and I believe, by the means I have pointed out, in gunshot wounds of the peritoneum, the pa- tient will exchange an almost certain prospect of death for at least a good chance of recovery.” In closing wounds of the stomach *or intes- tines, the ordinary continued suture (Fig. 211, page 29) may be employed, or preferably that of Lembert (Fig. 284) or that of Gely (Figs. 285, 286, 287). Whether or not the edges are freshened, is pro- Fig. 284. Lembert’s suture Fig. 285. Fig. 286. Fig. 287. First, second, and third steps of application of Gfely’s suture. hably a matter of little or no importance, since the union must take place between apposed serous surfaces. Silk or catgut sutures may be employed, the latter having the advantage of ordinarily entirely disappearing, hut the