TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. 443 variety of ulcer, special care must be taken to persevere faithfully with the use of the remedies until complete cicatrization has occurred, inasmuch as some chancroids become freshly inflamed, and break down anew, even when they are apparently on the high road to recovery. The use of hot-water baths, general and local, has been recommended as another means of treatment for these ulcers, and undoubtedly in those cases which are attended with much inflammation, benefit accrues from this plan. But for the cure of chancroids I cannot speak in the same terms of approba- tion which some writers employ when speaking of the “hot-water treat- ment the utmost that I have obtained has been relief of inflammation, and this has been notably the case in phagedsenic ulcers, in which, after the sub- sidence of the acute symptoms (the swelling, redness, and pain), the condition of the ulcer has remained stationary, requiring more active measures for its cure; and this, too, although the bath treatment had been diligently and carefully pursued. Treatment of Complications. Bubo.—Buboes, according to their stage, require an abortive or a stimulat- ing method of treatment. When first seen, and before any breaking down has occurred, the attempt should be made to cause absorption and disappear- ance of the swelling. For this purpose, local applications of the tincture of iodine (simple or compound) should be made to the enlarged gland, together with compression, if the condition of the swelling will admit of it. Besides this, applications of nitrate of silver—thirty, forty, or even sixty grains to the fluidounce—and of collodion, either alone or holding iodoform in suspen- sion, have been used with varying success. The internal administration of the sulphide of calcium, in doses varying from one-tenth to one-half a grain, has in my hands not produced satisfactory results, although some writers speak highly of its use in these cases. The application of ice is occasionally of benefit in diminishing pain and reducing inflammation. As soon, however, as fluctuation is apparent, the remedies mentioned above must be abandoned, and an opposite course of treatment pursued. Every- thing must now be done to favor suppuration, for the reasons which I have already given, and which will perhaps bear repetition. As already men- tioned, when a bubo threatens to break down, it is impossible, until after the bubo has been opened, to declare whether it is of the kind known as “ simple,” or whether it is “ virulenthence it is important to favor suppu- ration, and to settle this point. If the bubo be “simple” the mere evacua- tion of the pus will be almost all the treatment requisite, if we except the dressing of the wound with lint and cold-water bandages. But if the bubo prove to be what is known as the “virulent bubo,” then the condition of things is materially altered. The ulcer which is left after the evacuation of the pus is to all intents and purposes a chancroid, and requires active measures for its cure.1 The first thing to be done is to destroy the inflammatory and destructive character of the ulcer, and this is best done, if the bubo be at all large, by the actual cautery in one of the methods already advised. Any glands which are not yet destroyed should be removed, either with the knife or ecraseur, and whatever hemorrhage there may be should be checked with the white- hot iron. In making cauterizing applications to these, as well as to other 1 Aspiration of the bubo in these cases is of no service; a free incision is the best method of treatment.