220 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. in order to avert, as much as possible, the terrible danger from tire to which the sick and helpless especially may be exposed. The fact that, within the past ten years, fourteen hospitals for the insane in various parts of the country have been destroyed by tire, and in some instances with considerable loss of life, should be a sufficient warning to the various State legislatures to erect only tire-proof structures for the accommodation of the insane and the im- becile. If, in addition to this, the buildings were isolated, two-storied pavil- ions, connected, if so desired, by underground passages, similar to the new asylum at Norristown, Pa., with central arrangements for heating, cooking, and lighting, the chance of a destructive conflagration would practically be abolished ; for, if a tire should accidentally occur, it could easily be controlled, and without danger to life or to the adjacent structures. Fires involving considerable loss of life have occurred in the following State hospi- tals for the insane within a comparatively recent period :— Augusta, Maine : a total destruction of the buildings ; Brattleboro, Vermont: several patients lost their lives ; Utica, N. Y. : centre building and portions of the wings destroyed; Columbus, Ohio : entire building swept away, and several patients lost; Lexington, Ky. : partial destruction of building ; Hopkinsville, Ky. : entire loss of building; Williamsburg, Va. : loss of life uncertain : Cleveland, Ohio: one employe died (a seamstress) ; Mt. Pleasant, Iowa : building destroyed ; St. Joseph, Mo. : greater part of building destroyed ; St. Peters, Minn. : partial destruction of building, considerable loss of life (12 pa- tients) ; Danville, Pa. : almost entire destruction of hospital; Anna, 111.: hospital partially burned, one patient lost; Ossowatomie, Kansas : fire early discovered, slight injury to building. The last four fires occurred within six months of each other, and that at St. Joseph, Mo., within a year. Effects of Burns and Scalds. Burns are produced by the application of fire or dry heat, and scalds from hot fluids or moist heat; this, at least, is the distinction commonly made, but, clinically, these forms of injury are very much the same, and according to the intensity and duration of the applied heat and the capability which the solid or liquid possesses for retaining caloric, have we the varied grades produced. They may be variously caused by the sun’s rays, or by the contact of flame, boiling water, oils, or other dense fluids, of heated or molten solids, or of concentrated acids or caustic alkalies, producing all the various forms of injury, from that of a simple erythematous blush or skin irritation, to that of torrefaction or carbonization of a limb or part, or of the entire body. The varying effects are explainable by the peculiar methods of application of the destructive agent; thus, as remarked by Wilson, “ in degree, heat may be feeble but prolonged, or it may be strong and instantaneous, strong and continued for a brief period, or strong and continued for a long period.” The passing flame of burning ether or alcohol causes a superficial burn, while the contact of burning sealing wax or of boiling oil, the ability of which substances to retain caloric is greater than that of water, because of their greater density, gives rise to a much more pronounced injury. Molten metal, if simply striking the skin, causes vesication; but if, as in a recent case under the writer’s care at the Pennsylvania Hospital, the molten iron gains access to and surrounds a limb—being poured into a puddler’s boot—complete char- ring and destruction result.