590 VENEREAL WARTS OR VEGETATIONS. disordered through venery, or by the unhealthy discharges from the parts, offering a fruitful soil for their production. The existence of pregnancy also favors the production of warts, probably on account of the engorged state of the genital mucous membrane, dependent on the pelvic congestion normally seen in this condition; under these circumstances, the growth of vegetations may he so rapid and extensive as entirely to fill up the vaginal canal. The occasional presence of these growths on mucous patches has caused some authorities to consider them as syphilitic in nature; but their coexistence seems rather accidental than otherwise, and that they are not due to syphilitic contamination is shown by the fact that they are cured by local treatment only, and are not affected by constitutional remedies. As regards the contagiousness of these growths, much difference of opinion exists, some authorities considering them eminently contagious, w7hile others believe them incapable of being transmitted in this way. In many instances they certainly seem to be communicated by direct contact, as in a case recently brought under my notice, in -which four young men had each a pro- fuse development of vegetations, after intercourse with the same woman, who was herself suffering from warts at the time. Whether, however, in such cases, the growths are caused by direct contact with the growths existing in the woman, or by exposure to the irritating vaginal discharge which itself produced the original crop, is a question which cannot be definitely settled; but, on the whole, the weight of evidence favors the former view, and it is probable that, as believed by Bumstead, the contagious property resides in the secretions from the warts themselves. Treatment of Yegetations.—The removal of venereal warts may be effected in various ways, either by excision, by the use of caustics, or the cautery, by ligation, or by the application of astringent or desiccating powders. Ligation is a tedious method, and is now seldom employed. Excision, one of the most popular methods, is accomplished by shaving or snipping off the growths with knife or scissors, the cut surface being then touched with some caustic or astringent; this method has the disadvantage of being followed, in some cases, by profuse hemorrhage, which, if the growths removed have been extensive, may he difficult to control. The actual cautery may also be applied for the removal of these growths, either in the form of the hot iron, or the hot loop of the galvano-cautery, or in the form of Paquelin’s cautery; it presents a method of treatment which is both efficient, and at the same time free from the risk of troublesome hemorrhage. Caustics and Astringents.—In other cases the growths may be simply touched with nitric acid, chromic acid, or the liq. plumbi subacetatis, or, when small, may he dusted with calomel, tannic acid and lycopodium, or dried alum. The use of chromic acid has been highly recommended by Mr. Fro- mer,1 Mr. Marshall,2 and Dr. Crawcour,3 and is, by Prof. Ashhurst, preferred to any other mode of treatment; it is in many cases followed by the most satisfactory results. Both Dr. Keyes and Dr. Bumstead recommend a prepa- ration consisting of corrosive sublimate, 5j, with collodion, f^j, to be painted on the growths; they consider this a particularly efficacious remedy in the dry form of the disease. Treated by any of these means, warts will sometimes recur, in which case the same procedure should be repeated. Keeping the parts clean, and as dry 1 Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xiii. p. 250. 2 Ranking’s Half-Yearly Abstract, vol. xxv. p. 183. 3 New Orleans Medical News, Nov. 1857.