296 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. recollected that the loss of vitality is due to the stasis in capillaries, and also to the obstruction to the circulation in larger vessels from the severe swelling and tension of the part. Having exhausted the ordinary remedies for the treatment of inflammation, which need not he considered in this place, we may add the free use of incisions, which take off the pressure incidental to the swelling, and also allow an opportunity for the exudates to escape. This treatment, in certain places, may be used very early to guard against the danger of gangrene. In the periostitis which is so common during childhood and adolescence, and which is so sure to result in gangrene of the bone, division of the periosteum should be resorted to promptly. When gangrene has already supervened, the treatment which was proper in the inflammatory stage must be entirely abandoned. Stimulants, tonics, especially quinine and iron, together with nourishing and easily digested diet, beef-juice, milk punch, and such farinaceous food as may be borne, should be administered. The temperature of the part should also be carefully maintained. Local applications are not of much avail, but some are useful in promoting the separation of the sloughs and decomposed fluids, which may thus be re- moved from contact with absorbing tissues, and also in destroying the poison in the atmosphere breathed by the patient. For this purpose, covering the tissue with a fine powder of recently prepared charcoal, which has great power in absorbing fetid gases as well as the dangerous fluid of decomposi- tion, was the resource formerly relied on, and, if frequently renewed, possesses no mean ability in effecting these desirable objects; but its dark color, and the necessity of frequent renewal, are such objections to its use, as to cause it to be superseded by solutions of various kinds applied by the aid of lint. Among these we may mention Labarraque’s solution, chlorine water, carbolic acid water, permanganate of potassium, sulphate of iron, and bromine. It is needless to say that the end is best obtained by the very frequent renewal of any of these applications. As an aid to cleanliness, it is useful to remove such sloughs as can be conveniently separated without hemorrhage, and thus allow the poisonous fluids to be washed away. The use of warm water, in the condition of lowered vital power antecedent to and accompanying gangrene, has always had its advocates, and has re- ceived especial attention from modern surgeons. The continuous immersion of the part affected, in water at 100° Fahr., maintains the temperature so near the normal point, and so equably, that it would on theoretical grounds be clearly indicated. This is well substantiated by experience. I know of no method so likely to arrest the progress of gangrene or avoid the dangers of septicaemia, as the immersing of the part in tepid water. My custom in cases of severe injury, such as the crush of a foot from railroad accident, especially in young subjects, is to secure the patient from hemorrhage, and then immerse the part in water kept at the temperature above indicated. We know that the foot, or part of it, is dead from the injury, but we do not know the line between that which can and that which cannot live. Ampu- tation may still leave tissue that must die. To avoid this great danger, the cautious surgeon feels the necessity of not taking his flap from parts of doubt- ful vitality. This practice of immersing the whole in warm water will save the injured tissue that can possibly live, and with very little danger from the effort of nature to separate the dead from the living. The reel line in such cases is usually formed in a few days, and furnishes the boundary that can he trusted for amputation. The water needs frequent renewal, depending upon the extent of the gangrene, and must be kept up to the standard tem- perature, rather above than below 100° Fahr. Usually the patient’s sensations can be well trusted to direct the degree of heat. The practical application is often difficult without special apparatus, but ingenuity must he able to