48 WOUNDS. is probably the best method of applying cold. I have used it freely and like it much. It seems to embody in itself all the advantages, without the dis- advantages, of all other known methods of refrigerating a part. However valuable cold-water compresses or bandages, hot fomentations, or a warm-water dressing, may be for application to parts that have been injured, bruised, or inflamed, they cannot be strongly recommended as dressings to parts in which wounds exist, for it is nowT a fairly well-recognized fact that water, per se, helps better than anything else to encourage in an injured or half-dying tissue, as well as in the secretions of a wounded part, chemical and fermentative changes, by means of which septic poisons are generated, or made to flourish, and from the absorption of which blood-poisoning is knowm to follow. AVater, holding some antiseptic substance or salt in solu- tion, may, however, be used, the antiseptic preventing or neutralizing the septic changes which the water by itself might encourage. In wounds, therefore, that are much complicated with contusion and laceration of parts, and to which hot or cold fomentations seem applicable, these medicated water dressings may be employed ; it being left to the fancy of the surgeon, whether he shall use carbolic acid, 1 in 20 of water; boracic acid, 1 in 50; salicylic acid, 1 in 50 ; thymol, 1 in 1000; iodine tincture, 1 in 80; or per- manganate of potassium, 1 in 50. For my own part, I have for years given up using water as a dressing for wounds, whether with or without antiseptic substances, for I have found that oily solutions of the same substances have advantages over the watery preparations wdiich render them far safer and more satisfactory. Oily antiseptic applications are without doubt the best dressings for wounds which we possess, and of these, one composed of terebene one part and olive oil three parts, deserves, as already mentioned, the prefer- ence. Dry Dressing of Wounds.—A dry dressing to a wound is to be preferred to one of which simple water forms a part, since with it the sanguineous or serous exudations are more or less absorbed and rendered inert, and the sur- face of the wound is kept quiet and protected, as by a scab, from outside in- jurious influences; w'hereas, with a water dressing, the injured surface of the wound and the wound-exudations are encouraged to undergo chemical and fermentative changes, by which the risks of absorption of septic matter or poison are much increased, and the dangers of the simplest wound greatly enhanced. If the dry dressing be composed of some absorbent material, such as the absorbent cotton or lint, and impregnated with an antiseptic sub- stance, such as boracic or salicylic acid, or iodoform, its eflicacy will be in- creased, since the dressing, under these circumstances, may be left untouched for some days, even for a week, and the healing of the part will not, there- fore, be interfered with. Repair, as a consequence, will go on with greater rapidity and certainty; the secondary wound dangers will be diminished, and the ultimate issue of the case will be rendered more satisfactory. When a wound is small, and the surgeon has no doubt as to the propriety of seeking to obtain its immediate union, the dry dressing can be recom- mended, for it, without doubt, helps better than any other to bring about the “quick union” which is sought. AAThen the wound is large, or deep, the same recommendation cannot be made, and the dry dressings, if used, should only be so after every care has been taken to provide for the free drainage of the part. They should, moreover, only be employed when there is a reasonable hope of the parts healing by primary union. When a wound is much lacerated or contused, dry dressings are not applicable, since in these no surgeon would entertain the "thought of repair being brought about by rapid union, and where this hope cannot reasonably be entertained, the use of the