454 SYPHILIS. cinifer and the vaccinated. The contagion is carried by means of the blood, and possibly by the epithelial scales and the white globules, and may infect either the vaeeinifer or the vaccinated.1 Fournier says that to distinguish between vaccinal syphilis (that when in- fection and vaccination are simultaneous) and the syphilis which is post- vaccinal (that declared in a congenitally diseased infant after vaccinia), it should be remembered:— (1) That in vaccinal syphilis there is a chancre at the point of inoculation with characteristic adenopathy of vicinity, while in infantile syphilis there is no chancre, but cutaneous, glandular, visceral, osseous, and other lesions. (2) The evolution of vaccinal syphilis is accomplished in the four periods of (a) twenty-day incubation, (6) explosive chancre, (c) forty-five-day incubation, (d) explosion of generalized symptoms.2 General Syphilis always Follows a Chancre.—Experience and also the results of accurate statistical inquiry show that in the vast majority of cases of secondary syphilis, the existence of a previous chancre can be proved. Bumstead and Taylor give collated statistics of 1291 cases, in all of which, with the exception of 22, general syphilis was preceded by a chancre. These statistics, together with the fact that chancres are capable of spontaneous cicatrization, and may entirely disappear without leaving a trace, and also that in some situations, as the interior of the urethra, vagina, cervix uteri, and the buccal and rectal cavities, they may escape notice or be almost im- possible to detect, render it extremely probable (indeed, it may be said cer- tain) that general syphilis invariably originates in a chancre. It should be added that very many persons have had chancre without being aware of the fact, and that chancres are sometimes detected upon the persons of patients who are quite ignorant of their character and even of their presence. The chancre is often the most insignificant of all lesions. The initial lesion of syphilis is always a chancre, whether the infection has been derived from a chancre in the giver or from a secondary lesion. Syphilis has a certain definite period of incubation between the appearance of the chancre and the outbreak of the generalized lesions, which varies ac- cording to Diday’s statistics3 between 25 and 105 days, the average (of 52 cases) being 45 days.4 Bumstead and Taylor (op. cit.) sum up the matter in the following pro- positions:— A venereal ulcer which is not subjected to specific treatment (so called) will usually, if at all, be followed by secondary symptoms within fifty days, and always within six months. Conversely: The earliest symptoms of general syphilis (except in cases of hereditary origin) have been preceded by a chancre, probably within fifty days and certainly with- in six months. ’ Jullien, Traite pratique des Maladies Veneriennes. Paris, 1879. 2 A series of excellent papers by Dr. Frank P. Foster, of New York (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm. vol. i., 1870, pp. 189, 293 ; vol. ii., 1871, p. 38 ; vol. iii., 1872, pp. 152, 318 ; vol. iv., 1873, p. 201), gives a complete review of the subject of vaccinal syphilis. See also a review by Dr. M. H. Murray, in the same Journal, vol. iv., i873, p. 112, and see also Hutchinson, Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, Fasc. vi. 3 Diday, Nouvelles Doctrines sur la Syphilis, p. 265. 4 Excluding one case in Diday’s statistics where the inoculation was 105 daj'S, the next highest figure is 70 days, and the average would then be much less. Bumstead and Taylor in giving these statistics remark that in 38 of the 52 cases, or in about four-fifths, this period was from 35 to 50 days.