ASEPTIC METHOD APPLIED TO WOUNDS NOT MADE BY THE SURGEON. 81 extensive, and in cases in which, as a consequence, the use of carbolic acid would be dangerous, wet boracic lint dressing, that is, boracic lint used as water-dressing, is employed. Carbolic oil may be used in some cases, but, if the burnt surface is large, there is apt to be a fatal absorption of carbolic acid. Afterwards, the same dressing is used as in the case of ulcers, which will be presently alluded to. II. Wounds in which Fermentation already exists.—Wounds and sinuses which have not been treated aseptically, and in which fermentation therefore exists, often come under observation. Here an attempt may be made to destroy the causes of fermentation which already-exist in these wounds, and these attempts are sometimes successful. In these cases, the micro-organisms not only exist in the discharges which flow from the wounds, but they are also present in the granulation-tissue lining them. It is therefore necessary not merely to disinfect these discharges, but also to destroy or disinfect the lining membrane of the wounds. For this purpose, the layer of granulations is scraped away by means of an instrument termed a “ sharp spoon,” introduced by Von Bruns for scraping away carious bone, and first used by Volkmann for the purpose under consideration. (Figs. 223, 224.) The whole procedure is as follows: A spray being employed, the skin surrounding the sinus is thor- oughly washed with 1-20 carbolic lotion, and then the layer of granulations lining the wound is scraped out with a sharp spoon. After this is done, the wound is thoroughly swabbed out with a watery solution of chloride of zinc (40 grs. to the ounce of water). It is wTell, where possible, to arrest the cir- culation by means of a tourniquet, so as to allow the chloride of zinc to act thoroughly. Then gauze, wet in carbolic lotion, and a carbolic gauze-dressing are applied as usual. Where superficial ulcers have to be dealt with, it is not necessary to scrape the surface of the sore, and the spray is not employed. The surface of the sore is washed with the solution of chloride of zine, or iodoform powder is freely sprinkled on it, and the surrounding skin is washed with 1-20 carbolic lotion. A piece of protective a little larger than the sore is then applied over it, and outside this, one or more layers of boracic lint, overlapping the protective well in all directions. The boracic lint is prepared by immersing ordinary lint in a saturated, boiling solution of boracic acid, and then hanging it up to dry. In the after-treatment, boracic lotion is employed instead of carbolic lotion. This is simply a cold, saturated solution of boracic acid in water. The lint and protective are removed, the sore is washed with the lotion, and a fresh dressing is applied. The spray is unnecessary. When the discharge diminishes, these dressings may be left unchanged for two or three days. As a rule, one application of the iodoform or chloride of zinc solution is sufficient, but if putridity still exists, they may be employed a VOL. II.—6 Fig. 223/ Fig. 224.