ECZEMA. 615 in the acute stages of this affection are of course indicated: namely, the fre- quent application upon thin cloths of aqueous solutions of lime, carbonate of sodium, or carbolic acid, in the form of evaporating lotions, for an hour several times a day; the use of black wash in the same way for shorter periods, when the parts affected are of limited extent; or the employment of the zinc and lime-water wash above mentioned, sopped on without limit as to frequency. As other and more constant dressings, the powder of zinc and starch may be recommended, to be dusted frequently upon oozing sur- faces ; and the diachylon ointment, spread thickly upon old linen, and bound tightly upon inflamed surfaces for twenty-four hours, to be renewed as long as the inflammation continues active. By these means an eczema of arti- ficial or extraneous origin may be generally subdued speedily after the excit- ing cause is removed. Seldom is it necessary to resort to the assistance of internal remedies, if the general condition of the patient be satisfactory. Cooling alkaline draughts, such as those containing the citrate or acetate of potassium, may, if the inflammation be intense or extensive, be occasionally found of service. Surgical Sequelae of Eczema.—In another point of view, eczema is an affection of practical interest to the surgeon, as being the cause, directly or indirectly, of cutaneous lesions which require his care, lesions which are the result of tissue changes produced at times by the prolonged action of this disease upon the skin. The most common of these sequel® is ulceration of the lower leg. Eczema of this part, ^especially after middle life, easily as- sumes the chronic form, and is accompanied by deep cell-infiltration, so that the integument becomes greatly thickened and indurated. In consequence of the impeded circulation in such diseased tissues, and of the natural feebleness of the blood current in the part, they lose their vitality in great measure, and break down readily into a condition of ulceration. The ulcer may be estab- lished by the sloughing of a deep-seated portion of the diseased integument, or by the inability of such infiltrated skin to repair the surface tissues removed by an excoriation, accidental or otherwise. Once established, its size and depth may be limited only by the extent of the prior disease in which it is seated. Its course is always indolent, and it is frequently painful and ac- companied by great itching of the surrounding skin. It is, perhaps, the most common variety of ulcer met with in out-patient practice. Fissure of the anus is another affection which is not infrequently caused by chronic eczema of the neighboring parts. A simple but persistent pruritus is generally the starting point of the affection. This, sooner or later, excites an eczema, as the result of the violent rubbing and scratching which the parts receive, in consequence of which the cutaneous tissues in the vicinity of the anus undergo marked changes. The opposing surfaces, with the cleft of the buttocks, may be intensely red and moist, covered with numerous and deep excoriations, and resembling in appearance the inner surfaces of the labia majora. Thickening and impaired mobility of the parts follow this surface inflammation, defecation becomes difficult, and the anus is practically reduced in size, in consequence of the loss of elasticity in its tissues; and, as the final result, a fissure is formed, generally at the anterior or posterior edge of the opening, which, at first superficial, may extend deeply within the opening and become the usual chronic and painful affection described elsewhere. Another local form of eczema results sometimes in a grave surgical affec- tion of the part, namely, epithelioma of the female breast. Chronic eczema of the nipple is well known to be one of the most stubborn forms of this disease, and a frequent complication of nursing. The disease may occur, however, in the breast independently of this function, even in its virgin state.