THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 222 soon established, and there is usually great swelling from the rapid develop- ment of cellulitis; the surface of the burn is early covered with a grayish unhealthy-looking lymph. When the skin of the face is involved, swelling occurs so rapidly that the eyes are soon completely closed, the face assumes an erysipelatous appearance, and the discharges, rapidly undergoing decomposi- tion, give rise to fetid and depressing odors. Burns from nitric acid present yellowish stains or patches, while those from sidphuric acid, and from caustics generally, give rise to reddish or reddish-brown discolorations. When the cutis has been destroyed, the devitalized tissues are separated by the usual sloughing process. This separation of dead tissue occupies a very variable time, and is influenced by the patient’s general condition, and by the depth and extent of surface involved. After the sloughs have separated, exuberant granulations arise, and are often so abundant that cicatrization is rendered very difficult, and that, as a consequence, repair progresses slowly. In the healing of such surfaces, immense disfigurement and great distortion of parts sometimes result. Vicious cicatrices often follow, with anchylosis and forced flexion of joints. These scars of burns, which are often frightfully disfiguring, were formerly believed to be endowed with a disposition to continued contraction, and this was thought to exist for a long time after the parts had permanently healed up; but there does not seem, in fact, to be any essential difference in this respect between the cicatrices from burns and those from other injuries. Hypertrophy of these scars not infrequently occurs, which resembles, and is occasionally mis- taken for, keloid—a disease of the skin, occurring quite independently of injury. Asa result of the formation of cicatrices, the jaw is at times anchylosed, and the chin drawn down upon the sternum ; the mouth is everted, or kept perma- nently open ; the teeth lose their vertical position; the eyeballs, by ectropium, are left uncovered ; the head is immovably fixed and drawn to one side or the other; the fingers and toes are anchylosed, flexed, webbed, or twisted laterally quite out of shape ; and the wrist, elbow, ankle, and knee-joints are often dis- torted and immovably held in awkward and useless positions. Cicatrices from burns may usually be distinguished from cicatrices from other injuries by their size and appearance ; they are usually densely white, elevated in folds or ridges, and frequently puckered, the new tissue being delicate and sometimes very vascular and pinkish in appearance. Cicatricial tissue, if subjected to pressure or stretching, is disposed to ulcerate, and when the destruction of skin from a burn has been very great, it is occasionally impos- sible to heal the ulcerated part by cicatrization, even though aided by skin- grafting or transplantation of integument. Amputation of a limb under such circumstances may be required to save life. I recall a case of a lad thirteen years of age, who came under my care some years ago, and who had lost from a coal-oil burn every vestige of skin from the fingers to the shoulder, the entire surface presenting one huge granulating ulcer. To save life, which was threatened from the immense drain, the limb was removed at the shoulder-joint. In some cases, portions of hands or feet, now and then the side of the head, and occasionally the external ear, are seriously compromised or destroyed. A large portion of the integument either of the extremities or of the trunk may be involved. These injuries now and then occur in epileptics, who, at the time of the acci- dent, are quite unconscious of injury. Recently I had under my care a boy who, in an epileptic seizure, fell upon a hot stove, causing a most severe burn of the third degree involving the principal part of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and superficial muscles of the thigh. Many similar cases involv- ing the extremities have come under my observation.