280 ULCERS. or chlorotic subjects. In a sensitive ulcer, it sometimes happens that a care- ful search with the end of a probe, moved from place to place, will detect a point of exquisite sensibility; in which case it is probable that a nerve sheath has been destroyed, and the nerve fibre exposed. Such points may be destroyed by caustic, or cut oft' with scissors, or the nerve filament may he divided a short distance above the sensitive point, as recommended by Hilton. The pain of such an ulcer is often intensely burning. The base and margin of an irritable ulcer may become indurated and thickened by interstitial deposit, or the connective-tissue element may die, giving to the ulcer a mot- tled appearance, like that presented after the partial separation of the slough of a carbuncle. In such cases, the neighboring skin may also be attacked with pimples, which are red, inflamed, elevated, hard, and painful; these soon develop suppurating points which contain a thick and tough pus, and which presept the characteristics of little secondary furuncles. There is generally some febrile reaction, loss of appetite, etc., leading to the conclusion that the local and general conditions of the patient are not unlike those present in carbuncle. Treatment of Irritable Ulcers.—In the treatment of irritable ulcers, iron and quinine are required internally. As a local application, carbolic acid, one part to fifty of linseed oil, answers well; or a solution of ten or twelve grains of chloral-hydrate to an ounce of water, may be applied on lint, covered by oiled silk or sheet gutta-percha, and held in place by a bandage. The irritable ulcer, in feeble, anaemic, dyspeptic persons, may show no appre- ciable local change, except that the granulations incline to atrophy, become pale, easily break down, and are scantily renewed. In this class of cases, a tonic of arsenic and iron answers well; with a generous hut carefully selected diet of digestible, nutritious food. The bowels should be kept open (without purgation) by sulphate of magnesium, to each drachm of which may he added five grains of sulphate of iron. As a local measure, the ulcer may be brushed with a solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to an ounce of water, and may then be dressed with an ointment of carbolic acid, ten grains to an ounce of cosmoline, on lint or linen, kept in place for twenty-four or forty-eight hours by means of a smoothly-applied bandage. When this dressing becomes soiled or uncomfortable, it should be removed, the parts about the ulcer cleansed with carbolic-acid water, and a similar dressing applied. The dressings should he carefully adjusted, and not renewed as long as the part is comfortable, or the dressing continues unsoiled by discharge. Perfect rest of the limb should he maintained. Indolent or Callous Ulcers. The typical ulcer of this class is the old sore shin of the laboring classes. It exists frequently, without constitutional complications, in robust, healthy persons past the middle period of life. It is generally the result of an injury more or less violent. At first a simple sore, it suffers from neglect—the clothing irritates it, and secretions are allowed to collect on and about it; in the beginning it tends to heal like any healthy ulcer, but it is injured again and again, and may go on from year to year without interfering with the occupation of the patient. It may be large or small, and, when its charac- teristics are best marked, it is tolerably regular in outline ; its surface is depressed, and presents a yellowish-gray appearance, with perhaps here and there red or pink granulations peeping through. Its edges are abrupt and elevated, and have a bluish cast, with a thick, scaly epithelium coming up