SYPHILIS. 544 tenderness of the periosteum will he observed. When the upper lid is much swollen, the eyeball projecting, and the orbital periosteum elevated, the history will generally confirm the suspicion of syphilitic disease thus aroused, and the result of treatment will confirm the diagnosis. Syphilis of the Maxillary, Palate, and Nasal Bones.—The maxillae are not unfrequently attacked, usually in the superior alveolar processes. The teeth loosen, the gums become red and swollen, and ulcers appear, which pour out a peculiarly nauseating discharge. The fetor of the breath, and the diffi- culty of speech, mastication, and deglutition, make this affection most painful and disagreeable to the patient and to those around him. Serious deformities often result from the loss of portions of the maxillae, teeth, etc., but these can almost always be remedied by artificial appliances.1 When the palate is attacked, the disease may be so insidious in its onset as to show no sign until perforation is on the point of taking place. Fortu- nately, if only a small portion of bone is thrown off, advantage may be taken of the tendency of the soft parts to heal and cover the deformity, and by judicious stimulation the granulating edges may sometimes be made to join and afford membranous occlusion to the nasal passages. Occasionally, how- ever, the gummatous growth penetrates with great rapidity, involving the palate and bones of the nose, and resisting all treatment until the bones are largely destroyed and until hideous deformity results. When syphilis attacks the nasal bones, it is usually at first localized in the septum. Severe osteocopic pains may accompany the appearance of the lesion, these, together with coryza, nasal tone of voice, muco-purulent discharge, ozsena, and elimination of bits of bone, being among the first symptoms of the disease. Necrosis of the various bones of the nose, with flattening of the bridge, is a common effect of syphilis, the vomer, however, usually remaining intact. The treatment of syphilis of the nasal bones should be prompt and thorough. In addition to the use of iodide of potassium internally, frequent disinfectant injections are to be employed, such as dilute liquor sod. chlorinat., solutions of salicylic acid or chloral (5 gr. to f *j), etc. Syphilitic Dactylitis.—Under this designation Dr. R. W. Taylor, of New York, described in 18712 a rare affection of the fingers and toes which had previously been alluded to by one or two writers, but which had never been fully studied. The affection is caused by both hereditary and acquired syphilis, the latter form, that under consideration, being much the more rare, and less than twenty-four caseshaving been recorded. There are two varieties: (1) that in which the subcutaneous connective tissue and the fibrous structures of the joints are involved; and (2) that in which the morbid process begins in the bones and periosteum, secondarily implicating the joints, and perhaps accompanied by deposit in the subdermal connective tissues. The lesion develops slowly, the affected member gradually increasing in size, and becoming hard and firm. When the toes are affected, they are swollen uniformly throughout their entire length, but in the fingers a single phalanx is apt to be attacked, almost invariably the proximal one. The affec- ted member is reddish or violaceous in color, and is firm to the touch, re- sistant, and tense. The swelling is usually developed painlessly, but there is sometimes a dull aching sensation. The periosteum is affected in this form 1 See Jullien, op. cit., p. 875 ; also works on operative dentistry. 2 Am. Journ. Sypli. and Derm., vol. ii., 1871, p. 1. See also Wigglesworth, Case of Dactylitis Syphilitica, Amer. Journ. Sypli. and Derm., vol. iii., 1873, p. 142.