EFFECTS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 127 little greater, these pieces would have been driven out, and there would have been three wounds, one of entrance and two of exit. Much more rarely than multiple openings from a single shot, has there been noticed a single wound from two projectiles, a condition of things that has been recognized only upon removal of the bullets, or from the persistence of discharge and non-closure of the track after one ball has been extracted. Effects of Gunshot Wounds. The general effects of gunshot wounds may be classed under two heads, primary and secondary.. The former are consequent upon nervous and vascu- lar disturbances, and are pain, hemorrhage, and shock. Pain is exceedingly variable in character and amount, depending upon the shape and velocity of the shot, the part struck, the constitutional suscepti- bility of the subject, and the special mental condition at the time. Occasion- ally acute, it is more often dull and tingling, a sensation of contusion as if from the blow of a stick, the degree of ,the pain, speaking generally, being in inverse ratio to the velocity of the shot. It may not be felt at all: ordi- narily because the shot has been received at a time when the individual was under strong excitement, but not necessarily so, as instanced, for example, in the case of wound through both hemispheres of the brain reported by Harvey. The patient, who was seated in a buggy at the time of the accident, experienced no pain and felt no blow on the reception of the injury, but remarked to a gentleman who occupied the buggy with him, that one of their guns must have gone off prema- turely, as he judged from a sensation similar to that produced by the report and con- cussion of a shot fired near the ear.1 When large nerves or nerve cords are divided, there may be immediately experienced a severe pain, lasting ordinarily but a few moments, but in nu- merous cases little or no suffering is caused. Hemorrhage, too, is very variable in amount, being affected by the size of the vessel, the extent to which this is damaged, and the nature of the vul- nerating body. Wounds of the main trunks, if made by large bullets or angular shell-fragments, are very generally followed by immediate and fatal bleeding. To such we are undoubtedly justified in attributing many of the deaths in action, though it is impossible to estimate the proportion of mor- tality due to this cause with any degree of accuracy, owing to the small num- ber of battle-field examinations that have been made. The French reports from the Crimea place it at 18 per cent., a figure certainly none too high. Lidell has shown that hemorrhage was evidently the cause of death of nearly one-half of the forty-three soldiers whose bodies he examined after an engage- ment in front of Petersburg; and that of the remaining half, most were shot in the head. But while they are of the gravest character, these wounds of the great vessels are not necessarily at once mortal. The aorta itself has been pene- trated by a round ball, and life preserved for days and even for weeks. During our late war, cases were treated in hospital in which the vertebral, carotid, subclavian, axillary, and common iliac arteries, and internal jugular, internal iliac, and femoral veins were divided, as was proven by post-mortem exami- 1 Asst. Surg. P. F. Harvey, U. S. A., in American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1879.