GONORRIKEA. 404 nasal gonorrhoea, but does not seem to have seen any cases, and apparently founds his description on that of Duncan. Vidal (de Cassis)1 quotes from Baumes the case of a workman, who, after kissing the vulva of a woman affected with gonorrhoea, developed an engorged, tumefied, red, hot, painful condition of the left half of the lower lip, with whitish granulations and a mode- rate purulent discharge. It developed six or eight days after the exposure to infection, and had already lasted six weeks when it came under observation. It obstinately re- sisted emollient treatment, as applied by M. Baumes. Although there was, apparently, in this case, a direct relation of cause and effect between the gonorrhoeal and the labial diseases, yet it does not follow that they were of the same character. Already existing mucous patches, inflamed by contact with irritant pus, or a severe form of herpetic ulceration, would be accompanied by all the above-mentioned symptoms, and would offer a much more satisfactory explanation of the phenomena. Of course inflammation, eczematous irritation, or even suppuration, with abscess or ulceration, may occur at any time from contact of irritating or unhealthy pus with a delicate mucous membrane, and this is especially apt to be the case if the individual is broken down in health, poorly nourished, or of intemperate habits. But that gonorrhoeal pus rarely if ever excites such action, must be evident, when we remember the numerous opportunities for observation enjoyed by the authorities quoted, none of whom appear to have seen a single authentic instance of these forms of infection. In regard then to all the varieties except that affecting the rectum, we may conclude that there is an entire lack of satisfactory evidence that, as definite or recognizable affections, they ever exist. As to gonorrhoea of the rectum, the evidence appears to be a little stronger, but still far from con- vincing :— Allingham2 reports three cases, which he says were examples of undoubted gonor- rhoea of the rectum, occurring in prostitutes who all confessed the manner in which they had become affected. The mucous membrane as seen through a speculum was intensely inflamed, but the inflammation did not appear to affect the submucous areolar tissue. In the fourth edition of Mr. Allingham’s work (Philadelphia, 1882), I have been unable to find any report of these cases, and am compelled to believe that the author has purposely omitted them, possibly feeling some doubt as to their authen- ticity. Tardieu3 reports a case in which a copious greenish discharge occurred at the anus of a man after he had had unnatural relations with another who was affected with gonor- rhoea, but I have been unable to find any description of the condition of the rectum. Bumstead, Hill, and Lebert, as has been mentioned, have never seen a case of this kind. Diday4 has never met with any case, and after having experimented more than thirty times by conveying gonorrhoeal matter to the nostrils, lips, and anuses of various patients, and having in each instance failed to produce any result, says that among extra-genital gonorrhoeas he can only hold as indubitably proven the existence of one form—gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. Jullien5 describes an anal gonorrhoea, but says that experimental inoculation has proved that the disease cannot pass the limits of the muco-cutaneous orifice, where the cylindrical is replaced by pavement epithelium. The symptoms which he details do not differ from those which I have many times seen produced by contact of gonorrhoeal discharges with the anus, but have always attributed to a form of eczematous irritation. This occurs 1 Maladies V6n6riennes, p. 188. 2e Edition, Paris, 1855. 2 Diseases of the Rectum, p. 237, edition of 1871. 3 Etude m6dico-16gale sur les attentats aux moeurs, p. 235, 6e 6d. 1873. 4 Op. cit., p. 129. 6 Op. cit., p. 213.