84 POISONED WOUNDS. the effects of extremes of heat or cold, and perhaps of other states of the atmosphere, electrical or hygrometric. These influences are more clearly traceable in the graver cases, but are probably not without efl'ect even in the more trifling. And we shall have to note, on the other hand, some singular instances of tolerance, or rather of insusceptibility, induced by habit. I shall take up in succession: dissection-wounds, and certain allied lesions; insect- stings; snake-bites; and bites of animals.1 Dissection-W ounds. Under this head are included, not only wounds or poisonings contracted in the dissection of dead bodies, but an allied class of injuries sometimes sustained by surgeons in operating on the living, as well as under other cir- cumstances, to be presently mentioned. While in the very great majority of cases the poison finds an entrance through some crack, fissure, or puncture in the skin, there seems to be evi- dence that it may sometimes be absorbed through the sound tissues. Thus, Sir James Paget, in his most interesting account of his own case, says, “ I had no wound or crack of any kind.’'2 Wiart,3 after describing a poisoning in his own person in 1862, from making an autopsy in a case of erysipelas, says, “ I have always been convinced that I had not been wrounded at all, that I had, neither on my fingers nor on my hand, any erosion to serve as a place of entry for the virus.”4 But even when there is no actual wound, if the cuticle is so cracked, as for instance, along the edge of the nail, as to give the poison access to the true skin, it may be taken up by the absorbents and produce mischief. However the harmful material enters, there must be, as it seems from known facts, a certain condition of the system (perhaps various conditions) rendering it susceptible to injury. Those who are constantly dissecting may acquire, as Sir James Paget points out in the paper referred to, a marked degree of im- munity, so that no bad consequences ensue upon the cuts and scratches which they are very apt to sustain. Yet this cannot be counted on, and those who are depressed by fatigue or other causes, as students often are after a winter’s work, may be specially liable to this form of disorder. The period which elapses between the reception of the poison and the occurrence of trouble from it may vary greatly ; sometimes inflammation is set up at once, or in the course of a few- hours, while it occasionally seems as if there tvere a pro- cess of incubation, as in hydrophobia or in the eruptive diseases. Cases are upon record in which no symptoms have ensued for several days; but here there may have been some newr influence affecting the system, without which the poison would have remained inactive. In foi'mer times, before it was the practice to use antiseptic injections, such 1 It may be said here, that while it might he strictly proper to include tetanus, hydrophobia, and pyaemia in the present subject, there is in each of these diseases so new and formidable a chain of symptoms developed, in comparison with which the original wound ceases to have any importance, that they are generally accorded separate consideration. 2 Clinical Lectures and Essays, p. 32‘2. 3 Gazette Medicale, July 23, 1881. 4 In the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, for August, 1838, p. 396, there is an account of a typical case of diffuse cellular inflammation, ascribed by the reporter, Dr. J. M. B. Harden, of Georgia, to the violent motion of the arm during a long ride on horseback. The case was a fatal one, and at the autopsy Dr. H. contracted blood-poisoning through an existing wound in the finger. During his illness he was attended upon by his father-in-law, who dressed the abscesses, introduced tents, etc. This gentleman became ill after sudden and great exertion in putting out a fire, dif- fuse cellular inflammation manifesting itself, and terminating fatally. No wound is mentioned in his case, but only contact with pus. Another slighter case is said to have occurred in the person of another attendant upon Dr. H. during his sickness.