ISCHIORECTAL CELLULITIS. 679 Peri-arthritic cellulitis exhibits a preference for the cellular tissue over the knee and shoulder-joints. It commences with soreness about the joints, especially noticeable on movement of the limb. The pain on pressure extends beyond the locality of the joint. There may or may not he redness of the integument, but there are always the same tension and hardness which are found in other forms of cellulitis. The disease is readily diagnosed from inflammation in the interior of the joint. In peri-arthritic cellulitis the swelling is continuous over the joint, and covers up the bony prominences around it. The swelling over the articulation is evenly distributed, and is not found in excess where the synovial membrane is uncovered by ligaments, as is the case in synovitis. There is no fluctuation in cellulitis until pus forms, and then it is not confined to the limits of the joint, while there is usually distinct fluctuation in synovitis. The joint sur- faces may be forcibly approximated in cellulitis without occasioning any pain, while in inflammation of the joint there is usually considerable pain. The pain on pressure, in synovitis, is intense when the fingers press directly on the inflamed membrane, between the ligaments. In peri-arthritic cellulitis the pain is diffused over the whole surface. In cellulitis there is a feeling of hardness in the tumor, altogether absent in synovitis. Treatment.—The limb involved should be kept motionless by the application of a well-padded splint, and hot applications should be made as previously directed. Indeed, the whole system of treatment recommended in simple diffused cellulitis is applicable here also, with this difference: great care must he exercised in making the incisions so as not to wound the structures entering into the formation of the joint. Ischio-Rectal Cellulitis is an inflammation of the mass of cellular tissue situated between the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium. It is usually an acute disease, and is liable to occur at any age from local exposure to cold, such as sitting on the ice after skating, or on stone steps or stone pavements. It occurs also from traumatism, and from the extension of ulceration through the gut into the cellular tissue, and the subsequent entrance, through the ulcer, of irritating materials from the rectum. The disease generally commences with acute pain on the affected side near the anus, extending up the rectum or down the thigh ; the pain is aggravated by pressure from the outside, or by pressure of the finger in the rectum. There is considerable swelling over the fossa, which is also perceptible by a digital examination of the rectum. As the disease advances, the inflamma- tory swelling becomes hard and prominent; there is a frequent desire to go to stool, owing to the presence of inflammatory exudation on the rectal wall, which causes a sensation similar to that produced by the presence of feces. The formation of pus is made known by chilly sensations and rigors. The pus bur- rows where there is least resistance, and in this locality the least resistance is in an upward direction. The pus burrows underneath the levator ani muscle, upwards and around the rectum. It may by its presence produce necrosis of a portion of the wall of the rectum, and establish a fistulous communication to and through the integument. The pus may make its exit externally an inch or an inch and a half from the anus, and somewhat posterior to it, or it may open over the tuberosity of the ischium, or on the inner side of the thigh, or in the perineum. Treatment.—As the great danger in ischio-rectal cellulitis is in the forma- tion of a fistulous communication with the rectum, the efforts of the surgeon should be directed to the one end of cutting short the inflammation and preventing the burrowing of pus. If the patient is seen at the beginning of the disease, a brisk saline purgative should he given; when the bowels have