659 PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. the latter affection. It is frequently observed upon several members of the same family. - It affects children more frequently than adults, and is rather more common in the country than in cities. It is found likewise upon domestic animals, especially upon mice, the crusts growing at times to such a size as almost to conceal the head. Cats which catch mice thus affected, exhibit well-marked crusts upon their paws, and sometimes communicate the disease to their kittens. Dogs, too, that have caught mice similarly diseased have had favus developed upon their forepaws. Numerous instances have been recorded in which the affection has been communicated from these ani- mals to children playing with them. The disease has been observed also upon hens, and has been cultivated successfully upon rabbits. The presence of favus upon all these animals can be easily recognized, so that danger of transmission from such sources may be guarded against. The course of the disease is always slow. Left to itself, upon the scalp, it may last a lifetime, or until it has entirely destroyed the hair. Upon other portions of the body, its duration is not so long, owing to the smaller size of the hair follicles. Treatment of Favus.—In all the parasitic affections of vegetable origin, it is necessary to apply to the parts affected, such substances as will destroy the fungus growths without producing excessive action upon the animal tissues themselves. This difficulty greatly protracts the cure of these diseases. The number of parasiticides is by no means small—the most effective being pre- parations of sulphur and of mercury, tar, creasote, carbolic acid, and chryso- phanic acid. They may often be combined with advantage. Upon the general surface, the crusts are first to be removed by softening them with fats or poultices, and then by thorough washing with soft soap and water. When the skin is exposed, it may be smeared with the following ointment, once or twice a day, as the skin bears it with or without much irritation: R. Unguenti hydrargyri nitratis, 3ij ; sulphuris, 3ij ; creasoti, gtt. xv ; adipis, ,5ss. M. As this ointment stains the surface, it should not be used upon exposed parts. Carbolized olive oil may be rubbed into the affected parts, or they may be painted with tincture of iodine, to which creasote has been added. Chryso- phanic acid ointment (3j to ,yj) may be used, but with caution at first, on account of its irritating effects, and never upon exposed parts, because of its staining properties. A strong solution of sulphurous acid may be sopped into the affected skin, as freely and as often as the latter will bear it. Several of these methods of treatment may be advantageously employed at the same time, or alternately ; for instance, the ointments may be applied at night and some of the washes in the morning, using them all as freely and in as con- centrated forms as the skin will bear without becoming inflamed. Mercurial preparations cannot of course be used over extensive surfaces, nor for long periods, without danger. Treatment is to be kept up in all cases for a long time, it being a safe rule to consider the patient to be only half cured, when according to external appearances the disease has wholly disappeared, the plant retaining its vitality in the lower layers of the epidermis after its super- ficial growth has been destroyed. This rule holds true of all this class of parasitic affections. Upon the scalp, additional means are necessary, because the large hair fol- licles are filled with the fungus growth to the base of the skin, and the pres- ence of the hair prevents the entrance of the parasiticides to these great store- houses of danger. It is necessary, therefore, to remove the hairs. Epilation may be best performed with broad forceps. The diseased hairs and stumps come out readily, and with little pain. As many as possible should be ex- tracted once or twice a day, after the removal of the crusts, the process being