370 GONORRHOEA. gives rise to vesical irritability, the patient may sit upright, with a handker- chief or towel rolled up and placed just back of the scrotum, thus occluding the urethra at that point. The syringe having been nearly or quite filled, according to the depth to which it is thought necessary to throw the injec- tion, is held between the thumb and middle finger of the right hand, the tip of the index finger resting on the end of the piston. The conical extremity of the syringe is then inserted from a quarter to half an inch within the meatus, which is held open for that purpose by the thumb and fingers of the left hand, and which is then drawn tightly around the syringe, the pressure being made laterally (Fig. 818), so as to narrow the aperture instead of broadening Fig. 318. it, as when it is compressed in an antero-posterior direction. If this is done properly, while the syringe is depressed so that the piston points about toward the umbilicus and is gently forced home, every drop of the liquid, to the amount of three fluidrachms, should he deposited within the urethra. If the margins of the meatus are not made closely to embrace the syringe, the injec- tion will dribble out over the hand, and down upon the floor. One or two trials will usually overcome this difficulty, hut if there is any trouble at first, it is safer to be convinced by actual observation that it has disappeared. The patient should then be told to use the injection in this manner after each urination, and to hold the injected fluid within the urethra for two or three minutes before suffering it to escape. It may be laid down as a general rule, that any injection, even if it be water, which gives rise to more pain than might be described as a very slight smarting, is likely to do harm rather than good, and should be diluted or withdrawn. If it be thought proper on account of uncontrollable ardor urinse, or for any other reason, to begin injections during the early part of the stationary