390 GONORRIKEA. me, himself noting a valuable diagnostic point between gonorrhoeal and ordinary sub- acute rheumatism. Authorities might be multiplied very largely to prove that the affection is universally regarded as exceptionally intractable. Indeed, as far as I know, there is no difference of opinion as to this point. Gosselin1 recommends leeches, flexion of the joint, and hypodermic injection of mor- phia, but says that, under this treatment, the disease persists for from ninety to one hundred and twenty days, and frequently results in fibrinous exudation, destruction of the articular cartilages, and anchylosis. Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia is so closely allied to the preceding affection, and is so often associated with it, that it seems evident that the same general treatment would be likely to prove beneficial. I have had but two opportu- nities of testing this since adopting the method described above, and in neither of them was the result so conspicuously successful as to afford a basis for generalization, although I was inclined to think that the duration of the disease was somewhat shortened. In conjunction with the treatment by qui- nine and mercury, it would be proper in these cases to use warm collyria, to apply blisters or leeches to the temple, to keep the pupils dilated with atropia, and to use warm foot-baths, laxatives, sinapisms, and other revulsive measures. Conjunctivitis, as a complication of gonorrhoea, is of so serious a nature, and the prognosis, in even the most favorable eases, is so grave that it is customary and advisable to call in the services of an oculist to share the responsibility. The general plan of treatment consists in placing the patient in a darkened room; hermetically sealing the sound eye to prevent infection ; relieving tension, when chemosis is great, by free scarification of the conjunctiva; cau- terization with the nitrate of silver; canthoplasty, to permit of the free escape of discharges ; leeches to the temple ; atropine ; puncture of the ante- rior chamber when there is much increase of intraocular pressure; perfect cleanliness; and a general revulsive and antiphlogistic treatment. Mr. Bader2 recommends that an ointment, containing one grain of red oxide of mer- cury and one-fifth of a grain of sulphate of atropia to the drachm of vaseline, be used in case of gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. The eye should be first cleansed with tepid water, and the ointment then pushed freely beneath the upper and lower lids with a soft camel’s- hair brush. Gonorrhcea in the Female. Gonorrhoea in the female (Plate VI. Fig. 4) is neither as frequent, as limited in its situation, as protracted in its course, nor as serious in its results, as in the male. These facts, established by clinical observation, are due to the following causes: The anatomical arrangement of the genito-urinary organs in women, permits gonorrhoeal inflammation to develop in the vulva, vagina, urethra, or uterus, which I have found to be involved with a frequency in- dicated by the order of mention. Vaginitis is, however, described by most writers as the most common of these varieties of gonorrhoea. The uterus is insensitive, not prone to inflammatory action from external irritants, and in a position where such irritants, especially when derived from sexual inter- course, are not retained in contact with it for any length of time. The deli- cate urethral mucous membrane is protected from frequent contamination by its sheltered position and its situation above the genital canal, fluids deposited in or flowing from the latter not necessarily coming in contact with it. The vulva and vagina are obviously much more exposed to irritating or traumatic 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, No. 108, 1877. < 1 British Medical Journal, November 13* 1880.