464 SYPHILIS. 1 Jullien, op. cit., p. 533. the rarity of the vaginal chancre. Binet describes the lesion in one case as situated on the right vaginal wall, near the inferior extremity of the os uteri • a centimetre in diameter; the floor red, smooth, shining, and non-purulent; the edges slightly elevated and passing without a ridge into the bottom of the erosion. Induration was difficult to make out from the peculiar situa- tion of the chancre, but by passing the finger lightly over the tissues in the neighborhood, a slight resistance could be perceived as of a more resilient sur- face. The lymphatics running along the walls of the vagina were enlarged, and appeared to leave the erosion and run toward the indurated post-pubic ganglia. Small ganglia could also be perceived in the neighborhood of the obturator foramen. In Binet’s other case, the chancre was situated on the posterior wall of the vagina just within the carunculse myrtiformes. It was about two centimetres in diameter, and presented the same features as the lesion in the first case. Extra-Genital Chancres. Extra-genital chancres occur in men in the proportion of 6 per cent, of chancres of all kinds. In women, the proportion of extra-genital chancres is much greater, amounting to 16 per cent., an important clinical fact. The usual seat of extra-genital chancre is about the mouth in both sexes, and, in women, about the anus and on the breasts. The chancres of other extra- genital localities are much less frequent. The following statistics,1 compiled from various sources, show the comparative fre- quency of the different extra-genital chancres in men and in women. Men. Anus . 12 Women. Anus and perineal region . . 21 Lips .... . 36 Lips ..... . 20 Gums . 1 Tongue .... . 2 Tongue . 8 Uvula .... . 2 Nose and cheek . 3 Mouth (in general) . . 4 Eyelids . 2 Breasts .... . 11 Abdomen . . 9 Groin and thigh . 8 Buttock . 1 Buttocks .... . 4 Lower limbs . 3 Ala nasi .... . 6 Fingers . 2 Forehead .... . 3 77 Neck .... . 1 Buccal Chancres.—Among chancres of the buccal region those of the lips are the most common. Chancre of the lip may be a very minute and insignificant lesion. It may also be a more extensive ulcer, raised, crusted, and involving the skin beyond the muco-cutaneous surface of the lip, being accompanied by very considerable oedematous swelling and firm infiltration of a characteristic sort, usually insensitive, but sometimes giving pain from tension, and not infrequently causing so much eversion of the lip as to prevent the mouth from being closed (Plate'lX. Fig. 4). Chancre of the lip may also be a fissured ulceration, springing from a cracked lip, and unfortunately too apt to be mis- taken for this trifling lesion. When chancre occurs on the inner surface of the lip, the ulcer is less elevated than in chancre of the outer aspect, and is occasionally accompanied by perceptible loss of substance. The submaxillary glands become swollen in about ten days after the appearance of the chancre, and often give rise to much pain and discomfort. In infants, buccal chancres are usually derived from mucous patches on the nurse’s nipple.