TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 371 period, it is well to use only hot water, or, as has been suggested, some hot mucilaginous infusion. When the ardor urinse has fairly begun to subside, a sedative and slightly astringent injection may be employed, as for example:— R—Ext. opii, 3j. Liq. plumbi subacetat. dil. f§iv. M. Or R Tinct. aconiti rad. f 5'j- Tinct. opii, f 3vj- Mucilag. sassafras medullas, fifiij. M. During this time, the original internal treatment should be continued, the alkaline diuretic being given in gradually decreasing quantities. Anti-blennorrhagic Remedies.—When the ardor urinse and chordee have almost or quite disappeared, a change may be made with advantage in both the general and the local medication. It is at this stage that the employ- ment of the so-called “ anti-blennorrhagics” is indicated, the drugs which are usually included under this title being cubebs, copaiba, and sandal-wood oil. Kava-kava has been used in urethritis, and it is claimed with some success. I have never used it. The formula recommended is, Fluid extract of eucalyptus globulus, 60 parts. Fluid extract of kava-kava, 20 parts. Benzoic acid, 2 parts. Powdered borax, 12 parts. A teaspoonful three times daily. According to Dupuy, kava-kava is, (1) a sialagogue, (2) a bitter tonic, (3) a gentle excitant of the nervous system, (4) a powerful diuretic, (5) a blennostatic. The effect of the resin of kava-kava in gonorrhoea, he considers exceedingly favorable ; it relieves the pain and diminishes the discharge.1 Mr. Leighton Kesteven, Colonial Medical Officer at Fiji, writes :2 “ The most marked and valuable property of kava, is its action upon the genito-urinary tracts. Chronic gleet I have found to yield readily to its effects, and in chronic cystitis it possesses an influence superior to any other remedy with which I am acquainted.” Cases are reported by Dr. Reed,3 in which a mixture of kava-kava and glycerine—one to three—in teaspoonful doses, seemed productive of benefit as an “ abortive.” In the later stages, he thought it less beneficial. Balsam of gurjun, or wood-oil, a resinous product, has been used as an anti-blennor- rhagic. M. Yidal has experimented with it more extensively than any one else, and reports4 seventeen cases, in which the time of treatment varied from ten to tw'enty days. He used it in combination with simple syrup in the dose of one drachm, twice a day, taken at the beginning of meals. He writes, that “ it is seldom necessary to exceed this dose, which is well tolerated, and of which the only effect on the intestinal tract is the production of one or two stools within two hours after the meal; the maximum dose was eight grammes. At first, a certain amount of nausea is produced, but it passes off very rapidly. A quarter of a glass of wine administered after the potion renders it better tolerated. One of the advantages of the medicine is, that there need be no change in the diet; wine was given during the whole treatment without pro- ducing any ill effects. Employed with the same care as copaiba, gurjun presents marked advantages. Its action is more rapid and certain, for it has frequently suc- ceeded where copaiba has failed ; it gives rise to no erythema; it gives no unpleasant odor to the breath or urine, which is one of the inconveniences of copaiba; locally, it succeeds wrnll in vaginitis and balanitis ; lastly, it costs less than copaiba.” More recently, M. Deval corroborates this from observations made by himself in M. Mau- riac’s Clinique. 1 Deutsche medicinisehe Wochenschrift, No. 1. 1881. 2 Practitioner, March, 1882. 3 Therapeutic Gazette, January, 1882. 4 Journal de M^decine et de Chirurgie, Decembre, 1877.