GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 316 body by the clothing. The pain is largely to be measured by the density of the skin at the particular point where they occur. After the period of pu- • berty there does not seem to be much difference in the frequency of their oc- currence, but they are very rare in quite young children. They show them- selves, however, in the years that just antedate puberty. Treatment.—The treatment of a single boil will be almost uniformly merely local, and may be said to be purely expectant. For although we usually cover the surface with warm poultices, these do little else than protect the part against external injury. The notion that suppuration is materially accelerated by the use of these cataplasms can hardly be sustained. Never- theless, the pain and soreness are materially diminished by the frequent renewal of a warm or even hot poultice. The inconvenience, however, of the application is sufficient to cause it to be laid aside for other plans. The most convenient of these is some smooth unirritating plaster, such as adhesive or soap-plaster, smoothly spread, which merely protects the surface against the friction of the clothing. It is customary to practise incisions to hasten the cure, but if made at the wrong time they fail of their object, and may be regarded as a surgical operation the pain of which is out of proportion to the benefit received. When suppuration is well established, and the skin opened, nature separates the slough more perfectly by a little delay. If the incision is made after the formation of the slough is begun, it has the effect of prolonging the separation, which we know must of course take place. The “core” can be assisted in its extrusion by a little gentle traction. It is some- times said that a boil can be aborted by the use of counter-irritation in the neighborhood, as for instance by the painting of iodine in a circle of three or four inches in diameter around the central point. But-there can be no ques- tion that incisions practised early are adequate to this end. The cuts should be crucial, so as to take off the tension at the central point—thus abating the inflammation and preventing gangrene. For the treatment of a single boil this is seldom likely to be resorted to. The invasion is too insidious to induce the sufferer to apply in time. But when a patient is suffering from a constant succession of these painful annoyances, he is quite willing to obtain relief through this surgical remedy, which is far less painful than when practised upon the boil in its ripe condition. Indeed, the.operation can be so easily rendered painless by the ether-spray, or by momentary freezing with salt and ice, that it may be regarded as not only the best, but an easy method of giving ease. The initial step in the development of the inflammation is readily recognized by those who are suffering from furuncles, and advantage may be taken of an early diagnosis. The constitutional treatment has really no application except in those cases in which a constant succession of boils exists, and in such patients we are to be governed by the rule of rectifying any known cause of ill-health. But we shall often find some slight constitutional disturbance, perhaps of a dyspeptic character, with furred tongue, and urine slightly heightened in color. In such a condition, a laxative and diuretic are clearly indicated. It has also been found, especially in malarial countries, that quinia, or its equivalent in bark, is required. Proper regard for diet and regimen, in order to secure restoration of high health, needs neither enforcement nor elucidation. Like the carbuncle, boils have been found associated with the presence of diabetes. John Hunter, who suffered from a crop of boils for many months, thought himself relieved at last by the persistent use of the bicarbonate of sodium. But inasmuch as the dyspeptic condition is the determining cause of the disease, it is obvious that there will be cases that will be relieved by