535 SYPHILIS OF THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. rant anv very positive assertion, yet I think I nnty safely say that these two affections are never connected together as direct cause and effect. It is true, however, that the cachexia produced by syphilis may favor the deposit of tubercle in the lungs of an indi- vidual thus predisposed, and also, on the other hand, it is very possible that the irri- tation of a diseased lung may predispose to the deposit of syphilitic material, on the principle of the locus minoris resistentice. There are no facts, however, as yet, to sup- port this latter hypothesis.1 Syphilis of the Circulatory System. Heart.—The syphilitic lesions of the heart are of two kinds, diffuse and circumscribed. The former, similar in all respects to diffuse syphilitic myositis, is rarely met with, excepting in connection with the latter (gum- matous) form. The symptoms of syphilitic disease of the heart have not as yet been very exactly made out, because of the small number of cases, and because of the brief period during which these have been under observation. They are of two kinds, functional and physical. Palpitation is almost always present, with irregularity of pulse, and a feeling of weakness. During the latter period of life, severe pain and constriction in the precordial region are observed. There is a certain amount of discoloration (cyanosis) of the face, the lips are slightly cyanosed, and there is a slight degree of oedema. The most marked physical sign is dulness on percussion over the precordial region, and a dull sound, with occasionally a slight murmur accompanying the first sound of the heart, most clearly perceived toward the apex. The veins of the neck and of the extremities are apt to he distended. The pro- gress of the affection is slow, tedious, and insidious. The symptoms of cardiac syphilis are not very strongly differentiated from those of other heart affections. For this reason, in order to make a positive diagnosis, the general affection must usually be recognized. It may he as- serted, however, that syphilitic heart affections form a class in themselves which may in very many instances be differentiated from those of a rheumatic character. They usually manifest themselves only by the symptoms of op- pression, dyspnoea, irregularity of cardiac action and irregularity of pulse, while the rheumatismal affections which are specially apt to attack the valves of the left heart, particularly the mitral, generally give rise to a well- marked murmur, and are sooner or later accompanied by oedema. Rheuma- tismal and alcoholic myocarditis, and secondary dilatations of the cardiac cavities, are like the syphilitic lesions in not giving rise to murmurs, and also in causing asystolic symptoms at a certain period. The antecedents of the patient and the presence or absence of cachexia will serve to aid the diagnosis in such cases.2 1 The following papers may be referred to for fuller details regarding syphilitic disease of the lungs: Gintrac, Phthisie Syphilitique (Gaz. Hebd., 1877); Hertz, Ein Fall von Aneurysmaund Pneumonia syphilitica (Archiv f. path. Anat., 1873, S. 421); Lancereaux, Des Affections Syph- ilitiques de l’Appareil Respiratoire (Arch. Gen. de Med., 1873); Id., Note sur un Cas de Syphilis Pulmonaire, suivie de reflexions sur la Syphilis des Visceres et les erreurs dont elle est l’objet (Bull, de l’Acad. de M6d., 2e Serie, t. vi. No. 43); Aufrecht, Zwei Falle von syphilitische miliar Tuberculose (Deutsche Zeitsclir. f. prakt. Med., 1874, No. 26); Fournier, De la Phthisie Syphil- itique (Gaz. Hebdom., 1875, pp. 758, 773, 802) ; Thoreson, Syphilis und Phthisis (Norsk Mag. f. Laegevid., 1875, and Schmidt’s Jahrbticher, 1875); Rollet, Lungensyphilis (Prager Viertel- jahrs., 1877, S. 13, from Wien. med. Presse, 1875, No. 47); Tiffany, Syphilis of the Lung (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1877, p. 90); also, leading article in reference to discussion in London Pathological Society (Lancet, vol. i., 1877, p. 354). s See Lancereaux, op. cit., p. 295 et seq.