362 GONORRHOEA. solutions of the same salt, or of some astringent such as tannin,1 need not here be further described. Those cases in which it seems to have done good, and to have cut short the disease, are in all probability those belonging to the third or “irritative” variety, and in which, fortunately for the patient, the injections having failed to set up a very intense inflammation, the trouble had subsided as usual, though even then less promptly than it would have done without treatment.2 Having decided simply to treat symptoms as they arise, our first care should he to remove as far as possible all additional sources of irritation, chief among which are (1) the influence of motion, friction, and gravitation in increasing the amount of blood in the part; (2) the similar effect produced by sexual stimulus; and (8) the character of the urine which must neces- sarily come in contact with the irritated surface; this including, of course, the subject of diet.3 (1) To overcome the first, rest in the recumbent position is obviously the most important means at our command, and its power in limiting and subdu- ing the intensity of an acute urethritis can hardly be over-estimated. To this power is due the comparative ease with which gonorrhoea can be cured in hospital practice, and I have several times seen threatening cases cut short by the development of some intercurrent disease which obliged the patient to take to his bed. Unfortunately, it is hut seldom that- this method of treat- ment can be adopted ; business occupations, the pursuit of pleasure, and, above all, the desire to avoid detection, induce the patient to continue as nearly as possible his usual habits, and he rarely feels ill enough at this stage to welcome for its own sake confinement to bed or to a lounge. Nevertheless the general principle should be inculcated and insisted upon. The patient should be told to avoid, in every possible manner, physical exertion, to ride instead of walk- ing, to sit instead of standing, and at such times as may be convenient to lie on his back with his hips elevated. As an inducement to stay at home and maintain this latter position, he may confidently be told that it will greatly reduce the severity and duration of the case. 1 Niemeyer, Text-Book of Practical Medicine, vol. ii. p. 93. 2 A harmless—but, in my experience, valueless—form of abortive treatment is that recommended by Dr. Kuechenmeister, of Dresden, who claims to have found liquor calcis, when properly diluted, extremely serviceable in the first stage of acute gonorrhoea. He uses it in the proportion of one part to four of water, and employs injections, beginning about the fourth day after an impure coitus, and repeats them every hour and a half during the entire day. He has found that the acute inflammatory symptoms usually subside after about twenty-four hours, but that the copious, painless discharge from the urethra is not lessened, and that the treatment, although aborting the first stage, must be replaced during the second stage by the ordinary astringent therapy. Dr. K. prefers, for the latter purpose, a solution of pure alum (10) in water (150), to be injected two or three times daily. (New York Medical Record, August 18,1880; from Deutsche medicinische Wochenschrift.) 3 Dr. Louis Bauer, in an article in the St. Louis Clinical Record, after criticizing very severely the treatment recommended in Bumstead’s work, and objecting more mildly to that employed by Van Buren and Keyes, thus sums up his views upon the subject: (1) “ Gonorrhoea is indisputably a local disease. (2) The cause of gonorrhoea is local also, and of ephemeral dura- tion. (3) Gonorrhoea is inflammatory in character, and if not disturbed by stimulating treat- ment, limited to the anterior portion of the urethra. (4) Primarily gonorrhoea affects the mucous membrane only. (5) Whatever may be the primary disintegration of the urethral lin- ing by gonorrhoea, the structures involved are endowed with the power of spontaneous repair, that is to say, the reproduction of epithelium. (6) The reason why the erythematous inflamma- tion of the urethral canal deserves special consideration and treatment is its special function to serve as an aqueduct for a saline fluid (urine).” Dr. Bauer advocates what he calls the “ rational” treatment of gonorrhoea, the main points of which are : First. To protect the mucous membrane against contact with urine. Second. To dilute the urine by frequent bland beverages. Third. To reduce the inflammation and the hyperaesthesia of the nerve papillae. This is undoubtedly very excellent treatment as carried out in the injection of an infusion of flaxseed and watery extract of opium, and in the use of demulcent watery drinks, alkalies, and saline laxatives. It is practically that which I have followed for many years, but without being able to obtain such excellent results as Dr. Mullen, of Indiana, who reports, that in nineteen out of thirty cases treated in this manner there was complete recovery in from five to twelve days.