AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 483 and also to the conditions excited by the slow influence of certain toxic sub- stances, such as lead. (Jullien.) Leucorrhoea and uterine neuralgia, together with derangement of menstruation, are among the commonest disturbances of the uterine functions. Menstrual disturbances, indeed, are almost always present in the graver forms of syphilis. It is well to keep this in mind, to prevent errors of diagnosis in cases of continued amenorrhcea under these circumstances. The gravid uterus, however, feels most strongly the influence of the syphi- litic virus. Unfortunately, the syphilitic sterility of some writers has no ex- istence in fact, and syphilitic women only too often become pregnant while the disease is in full evolution. Abortion is one of the commonest results, and this has been explained upon three theories (Jullien): (1) By the direct action of the syphilitic virus upon the uterine fibres determining their con- traction and the loosening of the membranes; (2) Congestion of the organ and consecutive asphyxia of the embryo; (3) Direct and primary poisoning of the fcetus by a morbid principle. The latter, J ullien considers the most probable. Abortion is very common in early syphilis. Out of 390 pregnancies in syphi- litic women, observed at the Lourcine Hospital, in Paris, 249 reached full term and 141 terminated in abortion or miscarriage; one case of death of the foetus to every three pregnancies. The following striking ease, noted by Fournier, may be cited in illustration of the eifect of early syphilis upon pregnancy. A woman had given birth successively to three fine children when she became in- fected with syphilis by her husband. Subsequently she had seven pregnancies. The first of these terminated at five months; the second at seven and a half months, the infant living twelve day ; the third almost at full term, but the foetus was dead; the fourth and fifth terminated in premature delivery of a dead infant; the sixth and seventh were interrupted at the third month and the sixth week. When proper treatment is carefully followed out in these cases, the suc- cessive pregnancies become more nearly normal, until finally a living infant is born, which may die almost immediately with symptoms of syphilis; the next pregnancy may result in a living child who may s.urvive with or without a certain degree of syphilitic cachexia; and finally a perfectly healthy child may be born. I have observed this succession of events in a number of cases, and have even noted some instances of mild syphilis where the lapse of years appeared to have extinguished the violence of the virus, and where even with- out treatment gradual restoration to the normal condition had taken place. As to the time at which syphilitic infection must take place in order to give rise to abortion, if it occurs before the fourth month of pregnancy, abortion is almost inevitable. Occurring at a later date, the danger progres- sively diminishes. The occurrence of placental lesions as a cause of abortion will be touched upon further on. Fournier has called attention to the occur- rence of hydramnios in pregnant syphilitics. According to Fournier, too, the anaemia resulting from syphilitic infection predisposes also to metror- rhagia in the puerperal period. I have had occasion to confirm this obser- vation in the case of a woman long under my care, in whom metrorrhagia has occurred repeatedly in several successive pregnancies, being in each instance cui-ed by mercurials. Affections of the Nervous System.—The affections of the nervous system in early syphilis are of two sorts: those due to the general cachectic condition of the system, and those brought about by mechanical irritation or pressure, as by enlarged ganglions or diseased bone. As has been said, the condition of the