INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAS. 728 kind, even though properly shaped, is of itself an efficient factor of bunions. The normal long axis of each toe coincides with that of its metatarsal bone, and this, if prolonged, passes through the centre of the heel, so that normally the great toe points slightly inwards rather than outwards. The toes should spread when the weight of the body rests upon the foot, the contiguous bor- ders of the first and second being separated by a distinct interval, the second and third closer together, but not in contact, while even the third and fourth do not usually touch. If, then, the digits be confined at their distal ends by a narrow-toed shoe, the weight pressing down an inclined plane, as where high heels are used, the foot will spread at the only possible point, viz., at the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and that of the great toe will form a salient angle inwards. The other toes are then compelled to assume different degrees of flexion, or of flexion of one joint with extension of others, thus favoring the formation of bunions over the salient angles. The skin over the projecting joints becomes thickened and corneous; the bursa, normal or adventitious, is enlarged; and a bunion is fully formed. Aston Key explains the distortion of the great toe in the following manner: In the young and weakly, by prolonged standing or walking, the anterior tibial muscle, upon which chiefly depends the maintenance of the pedal arch, becomes weakened, and in consequence the anterior segment of the foot tends to rotate outwards. This, through the abnormal position of the astragaloid head, throws the weight upon the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which yields. The patient thus becomes flat-footed, and from the rotation outwards of the anterior segment of the foot, the weight is borne on its inner plantar surface, and this gradually forces the great toe obliquely outwards. This explains why the lower classes often present the worst forms of bunion, since, although not wearing tight shoes, they do wear those which are short and badly formed, and are compelled to stand continuously. The tendency to the formation of bunions is sometimes hereditary; and in such individuals, even properly constructed shoes often fail to avert the disease. Bunions are unknown among the savage races who wear no foot coverings. The first sign of a bunion is a tender spot over one of the joints which has suffered some degree of distortion, so as to render the articulation salient. Soon the part enlarges from effusion into the normal bursa there situate, or by the formation of an adventitious sac. The disease may now remain station- ary, and the patient may suffer no other inconvenience than occasional twinges of pain. Commonly the bursa does not suffice for the protection of the deeper parts, and is subject to recurrent attacks of inflammation, which are char- acterized by violent, throbbing pain in the affected part, with marked heat, redness and swelling of the integument. The bursa then becomes distended with serum, and, if the inflammation is not checked at this stage, suppuration results, and troublesome ulcers are left, which are not uncommonly the starting- points of senile gangrene. The pus does not always remain confined to the bursa, but is infiltrated into the surrounding tissues. Marked constitutional symptoms are present. Certain changes which have been thought the result of bad bunion, such as enlargement of the head of the metatarsal bone, the formation of exostoses around its margin, frequent absorption of the cartilage, with an eburnated condition of the subjacent bone, etc., are in all probability the result of rheumatoid arthritis. Other changes, which it is important to note, and which are undoubtedly due to the distortion, are a lengthening of the internal lateral ligament, and a corresponding shortening of the external. This is so marked that, according to T. Smith, the rupture of the latter ligament takes place even in the dead body before the distortion can be over- come. The extensor tendon of the great toe is luxated outwards to a variable