594 PSEUDO-VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. it is stopped as soon as the gums begin to show the slightest evidence of its constitutional action. Tonics should be given to persons of enfeebled consti- tution in conjunction with the mercury. The patient should be allowed a generous diet, and the greatest attention should be paid to cleanliness, upon which indeed Thomson, who disapproved of the mercurial treatment, de- pended almost exclusively. Locally, a weak ointment of the acid nitrate of mercury, or a solution of carbolic acid, may be used with benefit; the latter remedy Dr. Murray1 has also administered internally with good results. Bowerbank speaks well of the mercurial treatment as shortening the course of the affection, but thinks that the disease is more apt to be followed by sequelae when it is used ; he also says that the iodide of potassium is effica- cious in certain cases, especially those in which the mucous membranes are involved. Parangi.—Mr. Kynsey2 describes a disease which has existed for many years in Ceylon, and to which the name of Parangi is given. It presents a stage of incubation in which a sore is found on some part of the body, and which is followed by a stage of invasion, characterized by the develop- ment of slight fever and dull pain in the joints. The eruptive stage follows this, and lasts for several weeks or months, ending either in convalescence or in the development of certain sequelae, among which may be men- tioned ulcers, by which the eruption may be succeeded. The affection is contagious, through the secretions from the eruption or ulcers coming in con- tact with an abraded surface, or even with the healthy skin, and it is also supposed to be capable of hereditary transmission; one attack seems to con- fer immunity from others. Mr. Ivynsey points out the similarity of this dis- ease, in its clinical history, to syphilis; but believes it to be allied to, if not identical with, yaws. The Parangi disease of Ceylon is also described by Tilbury Fox.3 Verrugas.—Under the name Verrugas, Dr. Ward,4 of Peru, describes a disease existing in that country, which bears some resemblance to yaws ; it is usually preceded by an initial fever, lasting from ten to thirty days, and is accompanied by excruciating pain of a rheumatic character, finally culminat- ing in an eruption of warty growths upon the body ; these occasionally proceed to suppuration or ulceration. By reference to Dr. Ward’s article it will be seen that this affection lacks many of the symptoms and characteristic fea- tures of yaws, of which disease Dr. Duhring nevertheless considers it a variety, as he does a somewhat similar affection which occurs in the valley of the Amazon. Sibbens or Sivvens.—This is a disease peculiar to the west coast of Scot- land, occurring in the districts of Galloway, Dumfriesshire, Ayr, etc. It was first described in the seventeenth century, and was supposed to have been introduced by the troops of Charles the Second; the disease is now al- most if not entirely extinct. Gilchrist5 describes the disease as beginning with a sore throat or inflam- mation of the palate, the tonsils being covered with white sloughs, or ulcer- ated. In other cases there are elevated patches of a red or whitish color, resembling the eruption of yaws; this resemblance is pointed out by Berkeley Hill, who does not consider sibbens entitled to be regarded as a distinct 1 Milroy, op. cit. 2 Report on the “Parangi Disease” of Ceylon, 1881. 3 Skin Diseases of India, p. 95, 1876. 4 Trans, of Internat. Med. Congress, Philadelphia, 1876. 5 Craigie, Practice of Physic, vol. i. p. 682.