430 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. The third case was one of phagedmnic chancroid of the penis, this latter being almost entirely destroyed by the ulceration. There were also a chancroid of the scrotum, and an ulceration seated upon the right ala nasi which bore all the characteristics of a chan- croid. This latter chancroid inoculated the tissues about the nose, and finally became phagedenic and produced great destruction of those parts. Although this ulcer im- proved under treatment, the patient disappeared from Profeta’s sight before cicatriza- tion was complete. In this third case, auto-inoculation was not resorted to, and hence doubt might arise whether this were not an ulcerating serpiginous syphilide of the face and of the body, although no history of syphilis is given; but with the first two cases, I think no reasonable doubt can exist, if we concede the ex- istence of such a thing as a chancroid. Profeta’s fourth case is reported in the Gazette Medicale de Lyon, for 1867, and was a serpiginous chancroid of two years’ duration, which was seated upon the face. Profeta inoculated himself with the pus of the chancroid in five places, producing five chancroids which were not, in the space of eighteen months, followed by constitutional syphilis. Dr. R. W. Taylor,1 of Hew York, reports a case which occurred in his own practice at the Hew York Dispensary. A man with chancroids of the prepuce inoculated himself over the outer margin of the left supra-orbital ridge with the pus from his chancroids, producing an ulceration which had all the appearances of a chancroid. Matter from this supra-orbital ulcer was inoculated upon the man’s abdomen, care being taken to prevent contamination with the matter from the chancroids of the penis, and in four days afterwards a positive result was obtained. Apart from these cases of accidental inoculation, artificial inoculations have been resorted to by Bassereau, Puehe, Rollet, Hubbenet, and others, which conclusively prove the possibility of inoculating chancroidal pus upon the face. It has been stated that one peculiarity of cephalic chancroids is that they are short-lived, but upon reviewing the cases on record this point is not to my mind satisfactorily proved. Enough cases have been reported to show that the cephalic region is not exempt from being the possible seat of a chan- croid. Such ulcerations are, it is true, not common in this region, and hence we may lay down the general law that ulcerations of this portion of the body should be regarded with suspicion, and should be considered as syphilitic, unless the contrary can be distinctly proved. Origin of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. As already stated, Clerc, in 1854, considered that the chancroid was the result of inoculation of the matter of an indurated chancre upon a person who either was suffering or had suffered from constitutional syphilis. Since Clerc’s time, however, this doctrine has fallen somewhat into discredit, and until within a short period it has generally been believed that the chancroid and the chancre were produced by two distinct kinds of virus, and that it was not possible to produce a chancroid by any other means than by contact of a chancroid or a chancroidal bubo. Here is another instance of the error produced by this word “virus” a term which I trust will be expunged in time from the vene- real vocabulary. We have already seen that it is possible to produce a sore corresponding in many points with a chancroid from the inoculation of simple pus, and if these experiments be trustworthy, then it is the pus-cor- puscle which is the cause of the ulcer (chancroid), and not any supposititious 1 Archives of Practical Medicine, 1873.