131 COMPLICATIONS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. experienced ; mental hebetude is generally well marked ; a low muttering deli- rium is very frequently present, and, much more rarely, an active maniacal state. As we have already seen, septicaemia may set in at any time, pyaemia only after suppuration has occurred. Septicaemia is very seldom ushered in with a chill, and, when it is, never has more than the initial one; pyaemia always commences with a chill, and sub- sequent rigors, occurring at irregular intervals, are very rarely absent. The skin in septicaemia is pale and sometimes muddy; in pyaemia it is jaundiced, often deeply so, though the discoloration may be noticed chiefly, perhaps only, in the conjunctiva. In septicaemia, visceral inflammations are not com- monly present; in pyaemia, pleurisy and pneumonia, or hepatitis, are lighted up around the abscesses, though frequently these occasion comparatively little distress. A septicaemicparoles has not infrequently been observed, and in most instances in which it has been seen, the case has terminated fatally. The pyaemic Jof/k suppurations, and abscesses in the superficial fasciae, are very rapidly developed, and frequently give rise to no subjective symptoms what- ever. The attending wound, if suppuration has become established, usually becomes dry, the granulations are pale and withered, and what pus there is, is often fetid, though at times little or no change in appearance or secretion is observed. Prognosis.—The fatality of acute blood-poisoning is extreme; and every one who has seen much of it will be almost if not altogether ready to declare, with Mr. Longmore, that it is doubtful whether in military surgery it is ever, when thoroughly manifested, “ checked in its deadly advance.” In civil life, recoveries occasionally take place. Death may, particularly in septicaemia, occur within twenty-four hours, but usually the patient lives from four days to a week. Subacute and chronic cases much more often terminate favorably, though even in these the percentage of deaths is high, especially in the chronic variety, in which very often, after weeks of little or no apparent change in the symptoms, as indicated by pulse and temperature, the patient finally succumbs to the slowly but surely progressing prostration. Gangrene.—Consequent upon, or at least associated with, gunshot wounds, both traumatic and hospital gangrene are met with ; the former frequently, the latter rarely, and then, usually, occurring as a local epidemic. Traumatic Gangrene.—The ordinary traumatic gangrene of military surgery is of the moist variety, and may depend upon one or other of several causes. Very occasionally, the death of a part is immediate upon the receipt of the blow—for it is usually due to contusion by large shot—both bloodvessels and nerves being functionally, if not actually, destroyed at once. The color of the skin is at first unchanged, or whiter than normal; arterial pulsations are absent, and the local temperature is much and rapidly lowered. Again, after the receipt of a bullet wound, apparently of no special severity, pain may, in the course of a few hours, be experienced in the injured part, followed by rapidly forming great swelling, lividity of the skin, and gaseous distension, with constitutional symptoms of high grade—an intense "typhoid condition being often developed before death, which takes place generally within twenty-four hours.1 The development of such “gangrene foudroyante,” asso- 1 As an example of speedy death, may be cited Gillette’s case, in which, on the fourth day after the receipt of a shell wound of the forearm, “in the morning, the whole left upper extremity from the hand to the clavicle, was found to be extremely swollen, the skin as tense as a druml head, presenting in places a violet-blue discoloration with blebs. Emphysematous crackling could he felt all over the limb. In spite of numerous incisions, the patient died in the middle of the day.”