GENERAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 577 The iodides of sodium and of ammonium may occasionally be substituted for the iodide of potassium, where they agree better with the patient, or where a change is for any reason desirable. Iodide of iron is not very effi- cient, hut may occasionally be employed as a tonic or succedaneum, or in the case of children. Iodine, in the form of the tincture, may occasionally be employed when the iodides disturb the stomach. Keyes suggests the administration of the tinc- ture in doses of ten drops in a tablespoonful or more of starch-water, and increased up to eighty drops in a claret-glass of the diluting fluid. The contra-indications to the use of iodine in any of its forms are, acute or chronic inflammations of the digestive organs, plethora, and a predisposition to hemorrhages. Acute catarrh sometimes comes on at the very beginning of a course of iodide of potassium; the patient sneezes and coughs, the eyes grow red and watery, the nose runs, and sometimes there is a severe headache across the brow. Very often the patient gets accustomed to the remedy, and these symptoms wear away, while in other cases, a temporary stoppage of the iodide, and a beginning again in smaller doses, gradually increased, will ena- ble him to take the medicine with impunity; in other cases, however, the idio- syncrasy is unconquerable, and the drug must he stopped. The headache may sometimes he remedied by adding a diuretic, a little bromide of potassium, or a small quantity of opium, to the iodide. The iodides produce, at times, a variety of eruptions, commonly acneiform or hemorrhagic, but occasionally closely resembling the lesions of syphilis.1 The addition of small quantities of arsenic (5 to 10 minims of Fowler’s solu- tion) to the dose of the iodide will often prevent the appearance of these eruptions. Bright’s disease of the kidneys is said to he produced in some cases by the prolonged use of iodide of potassium, but the assertion has never been supported by entirely adequate evidence. Dr. I. Edmondson Atkinson, of Baltimore, in a recent paper on the subject,2 after reviewing the cases and arguments brought forward on one side or the other of the question, and comparing them with the results of his own experience, concludes that while the occurrence of severe alterations of the kidneys as the effect of iodide of potassium is prob- able in rare cases, yet that there is no constant tendency on the part of the kidneys to resent its employment. Mixed Treatment.—The combination of mercury and iodine has been a favorite form of administering these remedies for many years. It has its disadvantages, however, and should never be resorted to without reason. Many practitioners prescribe mercury and iodide of potassium in every case of syphilis, or even in every suspected case, upon the principle of the sportsman who shuts his eyes and fires both barrels of his gun, hoping that something will be hit somewhere. But in the earlier stages of syphilitic disease mercury is not only a sufficient, hut is the best remedy, and iodide of potassium, if added to it, not only does not hasten the cure, but by tending to upset the stomach and interfere with digestion, may lose the surgeon the aid of this important organ just when it is most required, to digest the food with which the patient’s strength is to be kept up, and to absorb the drugs which cannot be admin- istered conveniently in any other way. The “ mixed treatment” therefore should be reserved for stubborn cases where one or the other remedy has failed, or where, as in late syphilis, the appearance 1 For a description of these, see a paper, by the author, on Medicinal Eruptions, read before the American Dermatological Association. (Archives of Dermatology, Oct. 1880.) 2 May Iodide of Potassium excite Bright’s Disease ? Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., July, 1881. VOL. II.—37