FACIAL CARBUNCLE. 323 fection. There are others, again, among whom may be enumerated the author of this article, who believe that frequent washings with carbolized water, especially if used with a syringe, followed by the application of lint or absorbent cotton, which, by capillary attraction, takes up the secretion as formed, is the best mode of local treatment. I may mention here the experience of Dr. Leavitt in the use of permanganate of potassium as a local application. A strong solution of this salt, half a drachm to the fluidounce, was applied with a brush immediately after incision, and a dressing saturated with the same wash left in the wound. The effect was immediate and rapid. When the sloughs have been entirely removed, the treatment of the disease differs in no respect from that of any other granulating surface. The firm application of adhesive plaster rapidly brings the edge of the skin to its normal condition, and a carbuncle which has been four inches in diameter will be found to have destroyed less than two inches of skin. Constitutional Treatment.—The constitutional treatment of carbuncle should obviously be of the kind known as “supporting.” The deep coat of fur ordinarily upon the tongue, with the usual constipation, indicate the necessity for a cathartic, which it is usually better should contain a mercurial ingredient. But this must be supplemented by a nutritious diet, embracing such articles as beef-juice and milk-punch, and aided by quinine. As the pains are apt to be severe, anodynes are obviously indicated, but no specific has thus far been discovered. The treatment, however, may be by no means always quite so simple. Notwithstanding the fact that we are not aware of any special and specific cause for carbuncle, there are patients who suffer from a number of them in succession. Such persons will exhibit usually dyspeptic symptoms, which will require special treatment, guided perhaps by the patient’s ante- cedent experience. Dr. Gibbons, who in his own person was a victim to what might be called the “ carbuncular diathesis,” found relief from the free use of citric acid taken in the form of lemonade. Facial Carbuncle. This form of carbuncle presents the peculiarity of attacking younger sub- jects than that which occurs on other parts of the body than the face, but scarcely affects children. In appearance the disease is similar to that occurring in other parts of the body; but in consequence of the loose tissue of the face we do not find there the peculiar flat form of the surface heretofore described. It is more round, and, like other inflammatory swellings of the face, out of proportion to the actual amount of tissue directly involved. The lip is a favorite seat of the facial carbuncle, and from hence it extends to the cheek. In consequence of this peculiarity, and from its special dangers, the disease has been confounded with malignant pustule, but the appearance of points of suppuration separated from each other clears up the diagnosis. Notwithstanding the youth of the subjects affected, which we might suppose would improve the chances of recovery, facial carbuncle has been found to be the most dangerous form of the disease. The chief cause of death in ordinary cases of carbuncle is obviously septicaemia, to which, as mentioned above, we may add embolism, which is sometimes, though rarely, observed in this affection. But in facial carbuncle the chief cause of its fatality appears to be the extension of the inflammatory process along the veins, even to the sinuses of the brain. This has now been proved by several autopsies.