THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 408 History and Nomenclature. Until the year 1852, all venereal ulcers were regarded as due to the same cause—as produced by the same poison or virus—and were all called by the same name, viz., Primary Syphilis. It is true that Hunter, Ricord, and other less well known writers on venereal diseases, recognized the fact that only a certain proportion of ulcers of the genitals were indurated, and followed by subsequent manifestations elsewhere upon the body; yet the fact remains that the broad distinction of a difference in nature was not recognized, and that all these ulcerations, soft as well as hard, were grouped together under the common head of Syphilis. In the year mentioned, Bassereau, a pupil of Ricord, published a work1 in which he openly advocated a difference in nature between these two varieties of venereal ulceration, and by a system of confrontation—that is, by tracing the lesion of any given patient to the person who gave it—he was enabled to formulate the following proposi- tions :— “ Here, then, in a few words, are the conclusions at which I have arrived from con- fronting, not only those affected with erythema, but those also, the subjects of chancres and of syphilis of various forms, witli the persons who infected them :— “ If a person who has been affected witli chancres, followed by constitutional symp- toms, is confronted with the person who gave the infection, or with those to whom it has been communicated, it will be found that all such, without exception, have been affected with chancres followed by constitutional manifestations. The chancre is never purely local. “ On the other hand, if one who is affected with a chancre which has not been fol- lowed by any syphilitic symptom, be confronted by the person who has caused the infec- tion, the former will be found to be the bearer of a chancre which is entirely local, and which does not infect'the constitution. This admits of no exceptions. “ Thus, no chancre which is followed by constitutional symptoms gives rise to a purely local sore, nor does a local chancre, by contagion, communicate an ulcer which is capa- ble of producing syphilis.” Here we see clearly laid down the proposition that there are two distinct forms of ulcer, separate in their nature, and which never interchange, each producing its own kind; one of which is followed by constitutional symp- toms, while the other never is so, but is always local. There is no suggestion of a change in name as yet. That was reserved for another of Ricord’s pupils, M. Clerc,2 who, in 1854,3 arrived at three conclu- sions - (1) That there are two well-marked varieties of syphilitic chancre: one indurated, which infects the entire organism ; the second non-indurated, which does not infect the system, but is local and simple in nature. (2) That each of these varieties of primary syphilitic ulcer transmits itself as a dis- tinct pathological entity. (3) That the simple chancre is the result of inoculation of the matter of an indurated chancre upon a person who either is suffering or has suffered from constitutional syphilis. Believing that it bore the same analogy to syphilis that varioloid did to smallpox, he gave it the name of “ Chancro'ide.” Here, then, it is that we first find the name, chancroid, appear—a name by which the lesion is as well known in America as it is in France. * Traite des Affections de la Peau symptomatiques de la Syphilis, pp. 197 et seq. 2 I believe that this honor is claimed hy M. Langlebert for M. Maratray, who, in a work, “ De la Syphilis primitive ou locale et de l’unicit6 du Virus Syphilitique” (Paris, 1854), anticipated Clerc by six months. 9 Du Chancro'ide Syphilitique.