SYPHILIS. 538 As already mentioned, bony transformation is the occasional result of mus- cular syphilis. The course of this affection is slow and insidious. Very often the patient himself is not aware of its existence even after it has lasted a considerable time. The pains which are frequently experienced in the earlier stages of the disease, are apt to be considered rheumatic. Afterwards, in the case of gummata, when the tumor softens it is taken for an abscess. I have seen this mistake made repeatedly, and have had patients present themselves with gummata of the muscles which had been treated with poultices for a consider- able period, without the true nature of the lesion having been suspected. As a rule, syphilis of the muscles tends to get well under appropriate treat- ment. The diffuse form, however, may result in atrophy or destruction of some of the muscular fibre, and thus lead to permanent retraction. The diagnosis of the syphilitic lesions of the muscles is not difficult when the concomitant symptoms, usually among the later manifestations, are taken into account. Abscess and cancer, for which the softened gummatous lesions are occasionally mistaken, may be distinguished by the characteristics pointed out under gummata of the skin. Tendons.—The syphilitic affections of the tendons resemble closely those of the muscles. They consist either in a partial thickening, or in the presence of small gummatous nodes in the structure of the cord-like tendons, or of the membranous aponeuroses. Those tendons which are most thick and firm are most frequently attacked. The tendo Achillis and the tendons of the femoral biceps and quadriceps are most apt to be the seat of the affection. Nelaton observed two gummy tumors developed in the latter tendon which simulated a foreign body in the knee. In another case the tumor, which occupied the rectus muscle of the thigh, became the point of departure for a hydrarthrosis, which might easily have been mistaken for a white swelling.1 The syphilitic affections of the aponeuroses are not usually painful. Those situated in the tendons of muscles give rise to pain when the muscle is used, sometimes to a greater or less extent preventing rnovement. Usually sub- cutaneous, these lesions show themselves at first as abrupt, sharply-defined, hard, small nodules. At a later period they soften, the skin covering them becomes red and inflamed, and ulceration sets in, giving exit to the softened gummatous product, which, it must be noted, is not purulent, but is thin and colorless, or slightly tinged with blood. The ulcers thus formed are slow to heal, but finally they get well without retraction having taken place in the tendon. After suppuration has occurred, it is not difficult to make the diagnosis, but in the earlier stages of syphilitic disease of the tendons, it is often difficult to distinguish the lesions from the ordinary “ ganglions” found in the same localities. They are reducible, however, under appropriate treat- ment, and also run a very different course. Neuromata, which may some- times be confounded with syphilitic lesions of the tendons, are painful, and their seat also is usually different.2 The prognosis of these affections is favorable. They do not lead to any permanent injury of the parts affected. 1 Saint-Arroman, Thfise de Paris, 1858. 2 See Notta, Recherches sur line affection particuliere des Gaines Tendineuses de la Main, caract6risee par le developpement d’une nodositS sur le Tendon des Fldchisseurs des Doigts. Arch. Gen. de Med., t. xxiv., 4e ser., p. 142.