272 ABSCESSES. defined (recto-vesical, salivary, etc.) will be considered elsewhere, the following remarks will have reference chiefly to “sinus,” and to those examples of fistula which are really only sinuses under another name, and which have resulted from imperfect healing after suppuration. Size and Structure of Sinuses.—Both in their dimensions and structure, sinuses and fistulse differ according to the affection with which they are as- sociated, the time during which they have existed, the amount of inflamma- tion with which they are combined, and many other circumstances. They may be so small that they might be easily overlooked were they not disclosed by the. outflow of secretion through them, while in other instances they are of considerable size. In their structure, when they are the outlet for slight suppuration maintained by a fragment of dead or carious bone, or by the necrosed fang of a tooth, they constitute narrow" flaccid canals traversing healthy soft parts. If they have formed in the course of chronic joint disease or extensive yiecrosis of bone, and are of long standing, especially if the sur- rounding structures have been repeatedly or long inflamed, their walls become dense and indurated, or “ callouswhile if they have followed large gunshot, or other ivounds, attended with sloughing and loss of substance, they form canals, irregular both in direction and in calibre at different parts, with sec- ondary ramifications and recesses, and traverse tissues that are converted for some distance around into dense cicatricial material, in which further healing by contraction is rendered very difficult. When they follow strumous disease, as of lymphatic glands, or synovial membrane, they partake of the characters of the original disease ; the tissue of their vralls is soft and spongy, and ulcer- ation and burrowing are apt to occur. In correspondence ivith these differences in sinuses themselves, the granu- lations lining them are found to present many varieties. In recent cases, the granulations are soft, pliant, florid, and ready for healing as soon as the cause which has kept the passage open is removed. In cases of long standing, they are smooth, pale, and weak, like the granulations of an indolent ulcer of the integument. If they form in association with scrofulous disease, they de- generate into the same imperfectly organized tissue which is found in scrofu- lous ulcers of the surface. In short, sinuses and their lining membranes are subject to all the variations—depending on the character, degree, and duration of the inflammatory and ulcerative processes—which are to be observed in parts exposed on the surface of the body. And in their minute structure they accord with these conditions: the granulation-cells may be healthy, and the- discharge may have the microscopic characters of normal pus; but more fre- quently the granulations are ill-developed, and the pus derived from them is ill-formed, and mingled with blood-corpuscles and a large amount of fatty material and molecular debris. Appearance of Orifice.—The appearances presented by the orifices of sinuses and fistulse, and by the surrounding skin, will vary with, and become index to, the condition of the deeper parts. Thus the orifice, opening through normal skin, may be small, and embedded in healthy granulations overlaid with laudable pus; or it may be obscured by pale, oedematous, projecting granulations, exuding thin serum; or its edges may be jagged and under- mined, and surrounded by livid, congested skin, detached by ulceration from the subjacent cellular tissue; or it may lie in the floor of a scrofulous ulcer or, if it is connected with the escape of urine, the skin surrounding it may be thick, sodden, ruddy, and coarsely tuberculated, while in old cases, or when the patient is exhausted, or when the surrounding tissues are firm and dense,, the orifice may be patent, and trumpet-shaped, and lined with smooth scar