367 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. R.—Tinct. aconiti rad., Tinct. opii, Alcohol, aa f§j. Liq. plumbi subacet. dil. fjiij. M. Sig—For external use. Irrigation, or the use of dry cold by means of the India-rubber coil, is occasionally of advantage in moderating the intensity of inflammation at this period, and consequently in lessening the severity of the scalding. Treatment of Chordee.—In the treatment of chordee, attention must he paid to the following points, the first of which is the most important as a pro- phylactic measure: Before going to bed the bowels should invariably be evacuated, the presence of feces in the rectum contributing largely to the pro- duction of erections; to secure a movement at this time, it may be necessary to give a saline laxative during the afternoon or early in the evening, or to use an enema of soapsuds, but in any event it should be attended to. The bedroom must be cool and well ventilated, the mattress hard, and the bed- clothing light. No late meals should be taken, and any tendency of the thoughts towards sexual matters should be resolutely combated. Soaking the penis in warm water, or the use of a prolonged warm sitz-bath, has been recommended, but does not seem philosophical, and in practice has not proved useful in my cases. The medicinal treatment of chordee has embraced a great variety of reme- dies, of which none is at the present time generally recognized as of pre-emi- nent value. Opium in the form of suppositories, used at bedtime, is very efficacious, but not without its disadvantages, the constipation induced by it being prejudicial. It may be necessary to employ it, however, in which case the following formula may be used:— R Pulv. opii, gr. vj. Pulv. camphor®, gr. xviij. 01. theobrom®, q. s. M. et ft. suppositoria no. vj. Sig.—Use one at bedtime. Camphor may be given internally in doses of a fluidrachm of the tincture, or in the form of the monobromide, in from three- to five-grain doses. Lupulin in fifteen- to twenty-grain doses, and gelsemium in the dose of ten minims of the fluid extract, repeated every time the patient wakes with chordee, have in my experience been extremely useful. None of these remedies are, however, so certain in their effects as is bromide of potassium, which seems to have fallen into undeserved disrepute. Its employment as an alkali, as an arterial seda- tive, and as an anaphrodisiac, is especially indicated in the early stages of gonorrhoea, and should never be neglected, even when the symptom of chordee is absent. When that complication exists, the dose of bromide should be increased until decided drowsiness is produced, and it should be given at intervals during the day, with a double dose, combined with ten or fifteen drops of tincture of belladonna, at bedtime, and repeated if the patient awakes during the night with chordee. Under this treatment, pushed vigor- ously, the patient will rarely have any erections, painful or otherwise. If, however, in spite of the free use of bromides, the employment of cam- phor and opium suppositories, and attention to the hygienic rules laid down, the chordee is persistent and very painful, it is well to adopt more active measures for its repression, not only to free the patient from pain, but because each recurrence of chordee aggravates the tendency to inflammation, and,