GENITAL CHANCRES. 461 Seat of Genital Chancres in the Female. (Fournier.) Total number ..... , , Labia majora .... . 114 Labia minora .... . 55 Fourcliette ..... . 38 Neck of the uterus . 13 Clitoridian region . 10 Vulvo-vaginal orifice . 9 Meatus urinarius, or urethra 7 Superior commissure of vulva 2 Vagina, properly so called . 1 Genital Chancres. Among genital chancres, those of the urethra in the male and of the cervix uteri and vagina in the female deserve especial notice. Chancres of the Urethra.—Chancres of the meatus are not by any means as rare as those of the deeper portion of the urethra. Jullien,1 in a total of 1773 chancres collected by himself, reports 89 chancres of the meatus and but 17 of the deep urethra. Bumstead and Taylor2 have seen several examples, one, two, and even three inches from the orifice. Keyes3 has observed two, one of which was one and a quarter inches from the meatus. Hyde4 has also observed two cases. When the meatus is involved, the chancre, incessantly irritated by the urinary current, sometimes presents the irregular appearance of chancroid; it is irritable, and is said to possess a tendency to phagedsena. The deformity frequently occasioned is characteristic, the induration (late sometimes in its appearance) causing the glans to look as if carved out of wood. A peculiar, square, somewhat enlarged urethral orifice is the occa- sional result of chancre in this situation. To perceive the induration of chancre of the meatus or deep urethra, the penis should be grasped between the thumb and forefinger in an antero-posterior direction. The attention is usually first attracted by a slight impediment to urination, and a purulent discharge, due to a surrounding urethritis set up by irritation in the mucous membrane of the neighborhood, the case resembling one of anomalous gonor- rhoea.5 With the endoscope, chancre of the deep urethra can be seen as an erosion of the urethral walls, which have a grayish-red color. Chancre of the urethra is not usually painful. A characteristic sign, which is mentioned by Bumstead and Ta}dor, consists in inflammatory thickening of the prepuce on either side of the frasnum. The symptom is so constant as to be of considerable diagnostic value. Other aids to the diagnosis between chancre of the urethra and gonorrhoea are the slight, gluey, perhaps bloody, discharge, the localized impediment to urination, the subacute course of the lesion, and the involvement of the inguinal glands. Chancre of the urethra, especially when deeply situated, sometimes results in strictui’e to a greater or less degree, which must be divided with a knife. 1 Op. cit., p. 582. 2 Op. cit., p. 571. 3 The Venereal Diseases. New York, 1880, p. 89. 1 Chancre of the Meatus and Urethra in the Male. Chicago Med. Jour, and Exam., Aug. 1880. 5 The occurrence of chancre of the urethra has been thought the cause of Hunter’s mistake in taking gonorrhoea to be a syphilitic manifestation. John Hunter inoculated himself with the matter from a gonorrhoea, the result of which was the development of primary sores followed by general infection of the system. Ricord believed that Hunter had accidentally inoculated him- self from a urethral chancre, but Lane (op. cit., p. 6) suggests the greater probability of con- veyance of the syphilitic poison by the blood or morbid secretions of the person from whom the gonorrhoeal matter had been taken.