STRICTURES OF LARGE CALIBRE. 353 Such a deposit occurring in the submucous structures around the urethra, interferes to a greater or less extent with the lumen of that canal, and thus constitutes a stricture. Once deposited, here as elsewhere throughout the body, this new tissue tends to contract more or less steadily and continuously. This is in consonance with a well-known pathological law, and the contraction is no more noticeable here than when it occurs in the intertubular spaces in interstitial nephritis, strangulates and destroys the parenchyma of the liver in cirrhosis, produces induration and bronchiectasis in chronic pneumonia, limits the movements of inflamed joints, distorts or deforms after burns and scalds, or in any of the many possible directions exerts its power in the production of disease. We have, then, it must be admitted, in urethritis, a sufficient cause for the production of a condition which tends gradually to diminish the size of the urethra and to interfere with its dilatability. In studying the effect of this condition in producing the symptoms that have been detailed, certain other physiological laws must be taken into account. For example: Habit is a powerful agent in facilitating and con- trolling the functions of animal life. Illustrations of this fact in other sys- tems than the genito-urinary are frequent and familiar. The evacuation of the bowels at certain hours of the da}’, and the difficulties resulting from inattention to their requirements; the easy and unnoticed digestion of food taken at proper intervals, and the anorexia and dyspepsia following irregu- larity in this respect; the imperceptible and uniform action of the heart under ordinary circumstances, its tumultuous and uneven palpitation when its work is suddenly increased ; the many apparently trivial agencies which are nota- bly sufficient to interfere with the mental processes when accustomed routine is broken into ; all these are a few of unlimited examples that might be adduced to show the force of habit in influencing the mode of performance of such functions. To take up the case in question, it is safe to say that, in a healthy adult, a certain equilibrium has been established and maintained between the usual efforts and powers of the bladder as an expulsive organ, and a certain average amount of resistance which must be overcome before it can empty itself. At the age of twenty-one years, this adjustment of force depends upon a large number of previous distinct acts of micturition—about thirty thousand if an average of four daily be taken. This balance between the force of expulsion and its work cannot with impunity be disturbed, and even a slight interfer- ence with the calibre of the urethra tends to produce such disturbance. Apart from the proclivity to muscular spasm in the neighborhood of and behind every stricture, this interference with the action of the bladder arises from the encroachment of the new deposit upon the urethral calibre. It is a law of hydrostatics that, if a current of liquid be passed along a tube, a certain degree of friction proportionate to the amount and velocity of the current and the size of the tube takes place between the walls of the latter and the liquid ; if the tube be narrowed at anyone place, the friction is increased at that point, and, to avoid a diminution in velocity, the propulsive force behind the liquid must also be correspondingly increased. The pain excited by the very sim- ple experiment of moderately compressing the urethra during micturition, will serve to illustrate the bearing of this fact, as does also the exceedingly slight amount of prostatic enlargement which often suffices to bring on vesical troubles. Still another point must be mentioned before we recur to the group of symptoms the occurrence of which, after so many cases of gonorrhoea, we are endeavoring rationally to explain. The act of micturition is one requiring for its perfectly normal performance, first the relaxation of certain muscles to secure patency of the urinary channel, and next the thorough and complete vol. ii.—23