412 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. tion is abundant, and the patient complains of severe heat and tingling in the part. No glandular engorgement. “November 1. The ulcer, which has evidently become transformed into a chancre [chancroid], is increasing in size. “ November 15. Obliteration of the edges, diminution of the inflammatory areola, and an inclination to granulation. “ November 25. Obliteration of the edges very pronounced ; a narrow line of cica- tricial tissue is commencing about the edges of the ulcer. “ November 30. Cicatrization progressing; a healthy granulation of the floor of the ulcer. “ December 15. The inoculated ulcer lias partially cicatrized. Dressings with aro- matic wine are now ordered. No sign of adenitis; no sign of infection. “ December 27. Complete cicatrization of the cancerous ulceration, with an ash- colored cicatrix. The small ulcer at the right side of the nose has also healed. No evidence of infection. “ The only dressings used were diachylon at the commencement and aromatic lotions at the end.” It is very much to be regretted that more details are not given as to the syphilitic patient from whom the pus of the “ chancre of inoculation” was taken. Still, let us see what the facts as given are. We have a chancroid— for Melchior Robert did not recognize the difference between the two varie- ties of venereal sores, hut called them all chancres—we have a chancroid, inoculated upon a syphilitic patient; pus from this chancroid of inoculation is then taken and placed upon an ulcerating cancer of the face, in a person presumably free from syphilis, though, unfortunately, this is not specified. What is the result ? A double infection ? It certainly ought to have been if there is any truth in this admixture of virus, in this “ mixed chancre.” But in place of any twofold disease we only have one, and that local, a simple venereal ulcer, without any systemic infection occurring after it. And that is precisely what we should expect. With our present knowledge, I cannot subscribe to the belief of an admixture of virus, but can only regard such “ mixed” ulcers as the results of twofold or double infections, which, following out their proper, natural course, cause the chancroid to appear first, with its peculiarities of non-indurated base, purulent secretion, auto-inoculability, etc., this, after the period of incubation has elapsed, giving way to the initial lesion of syphilis, when the secretion gradually diminishes and becomes serous instead of purulent, the base assumes an induration which it did not have before, and the idcer is no longer auto-inoculable, unless, perhaps, it is irritated into suppuration. I shall revert to this point when I come to consider the subject of virus. Characteristics of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. When the difference in nature between the two varieties of venereal ulcer, the simple ulcer (chancroid) and the initial lesion of syphilis (chancre), was formulated, attention was called to certain differences which obtained between the two, and which were considered as diagnostic; and it was taught that cer- tain appearances were found in each one separately, which were not found in the other. These peculiarities of the simple venereal ulcer I shall now discuss in detail, calling attention to the changes of opinion which have taken place since 1852. The Simple Venereal Ulcer is not Indurated.— The first and the most striking feature about this variety of venereal sore is the supple base upon