THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 432 ease in this case. During the last of June, one of my former patients, whom I had treated in 1842 for an infecting chancre followed by constitutional symptoms, had con- nection with this girl, and contracted two chancres on the penis, one at the frsenum, the other on the prepuce. These two chancres were entirely devoid of induration ; their bases remained supple. The inguinal ganglia were not affected, and, although no specific treatment was employed, constitutional manifestations did not appear. Ricord considered both these cases as simple chancres (that is, chancroids), produced by the secretion of an indurated chancre (initial lesion of syphilis) upon a person previously syphilitic. But another explanation of these two cases may be given. A double infection (what Rollet called a mixed sore) may have existed in the woman; she may have had both a chancroid and syphilis at the same time. Each following the laws of its existence, the chancroid would appear lirst. The men, having coitus at that time—and there is nothing in the histories to disprove this supposition—before the syphilis made its appearance, would naturally contract only a chancroid ; the woman, seen when her chancroid had gone, and when the initial lesion had appeared upon the scene, would be unquestionably syphilitic ; and the deduc- tion being drawn that the secretion of the initial lesion had produced a chan- croid, error and confusion would follow. Let us see if any other cases have been reported which will assist us in our search. II. Rey1 reports a most extraordinary case, which is briefly as follows:— Two young men, A. and B., free from any previous syphilis, have connection on the same day with the same woman, C. From ten to fifteen days (sic) after, A. calls upon M. Rey, and shows him an indurated chancre with inguinal adenitis. A few days subse- quently B. calls upon M. Rey, and shows him four chancroids of the penis, with an in- flammatory mono-glandular adenitis. C. is then examined. She has an indurated chancre at the fourchette, with double syphilitic adenitis. The sequel in the three per- sons is, that A. has cervical adenitis and mucous patches in the throat; B. has a sup- purating bubo, this and the chancroid finally heal under local remedies only, and no constitutional manifestations appear within six and a half months after cicatrization of the chancroid ; C. has a macular syphilide. Wliat shall be said of this case of M. Rey ? Let us run over the points: Two men, A. and B., entirely free from syphilis, cohabit on the same day w7ith the same woman, C. She has “ un chancre indure magnifique.,:’ What is the result? One, A., contracts syphilis—-just what we should expect; but the other, B., contracts chancroids—what we should not expect. Why? Inexplicable, unless this happened: B. followed A. directly in coitus; the excitement and stimulation of A.’s coitus caused the woman’s initial lesion to suppurate, and the pus thus produced was inflammatory and capable of inoculation, not as syphilis, but as a local ulcer (chancroid). This is pure hypothesis, because, although we have the records of many cases of auto- inoculation of irritated initial lesions, there are none, as far as I know, of inoculations with such matter of irritation on subjects free from syphilis, and until this is done the problem must go unsolved.2 But though we have not any cases exactly corresponding to the conditions above named, there is one, published by Robert,3 * which presents us with a very interesting experiment indirectly bearing upon this subject:— Madame J. was affected with two cancerous ulcerations of the nose, the largest of which was the size of a franc piece (quarter dollar). 1 Annuaire de la Syphilis, 1858. 2 In this connection, consult Lee, Lectures on Syphilitic and Vaccino-Syphilitie Inoculations. London, 1863; Boeck, Rec.herches sur la Syphilis. Christiania, 1862; Danielssen, Deutsche Klinik, No. 33, 1858, etc. 3 Nouveau Traite des Maladies Vfineriennes. Paris, 1861. This case has been given more fully on page 411, to establish another point.