505 LESIONS OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. removal of the crusts when these begin to form, and by dressing the eroded or ulc'erated surfaces with some mildly stimulating ointment, such as that just given, or with the following:— R.—Hydrarg. ammoniat. 9j. Ung. aquae rosae, 3j- M. Of course, when the lesions are numerous, local applications are made with difficulty to every part, and must then be confined to such lesions as, from their situation, give rise to much discomfort. In case of the more discrete and widely scattered pustular eruptions, a warm bath, taken when the crusts are rea*dy to become detached, will loosen them entirely, and then the eroded surface of the lesions may be lightly anointed with some very mild stimu- lating ointment, such as this:— R—Zinci oxidi, 3ss. Adipis, 5iiss. Sevi, 3v. 01. rosse, "lij. M. The mercurial ointments should not be employed over large surfaces, or on numerous lesions, for fear of absorption. In the ulcerating tubercular or serpiginous tubercular syphiloderm, I know of no application as useful as iodoform in one shape or another. Dusted lightly on the surface of the ulcer and covered with a piece of raw cotton, its good effect is often really surprising. Lesions will often heal up under iodoform with marvellous rapidity. A good iodoform ointment is this:— R Pulv. iodoformi, Bals. Peruv. aa 3ss. Adipis, 3iw M. But the penetrating and disgusting odor of iodoform is a serious bar to its employment, and more commonly we must make use of other remedies. Among these, the most generally useful is the black wash of the U. S. Phar- macopoeia, and, in some cases, the yellow wash. These two washes are also useful, particularly the yellow wash, in the treatment of gummatous ulcers. Occasionally these ulcers, as they occur upon the lower extremities, are irri- tated, inflamed, and painful; under which circumstances rest and soothing applications, such as lead-water cloths or poultices, must be applied first, before the more stimulating applications are brought into play. Lesions of the Appendages of the Skin. Onyxis.1—Syphilitic affections of the nails may assume several different forms, some of a compai’atively trifling character, others much more trouble- some. Occasionally a comparatively ephemeral affection occurs on the nails, chiefly of the fingers and most commonly met with in women, where the nail becomes dry, friable, and fissured, the free portion showing transverse ridges, and the nail breaking and splitting with the least pressure or violence. This is an early manifestation, and it may persist through a considerable period (onyxis craquelee, friable onychia). Another form occasionally met with is hypertrophic onyxis. The nail may assume three or four times its normal thickness, its color changes to a dull 1 See Emanuel Kohn, Remarks upon the Pathology and Therapeutics of Syphilitic Diseases of the Nails. (Wien.med. Presse, Nos. 24, 27, und 28, 1870.) Translated in Am. Journ. Sypli. and Derm., vol. ii., 1871, p. 78.