TREATMENT OF STRICTURES OF LARGE CALIBRE. 379 On account of the importance of avoiding this error, I may be pardoned for quoting in this connection some remarks of the late Dr. T. B. Curtis, of Boston, the author of several valuable papers on genito-urinary diseases. He remarked1 that “ these disturb- ances [urethral and vesical spasms] are most common perhaps in persons suffering from urethral stricture ; not only in cases of inveterate, narrow, deep-seated strictures, which every practitioner, however inexperienced and uninformed, is ready to recog- nize as such; but also, as shown by Verneuil, Guyon, Otis, J. Wm. White, and many others, in cases of tolerably wide anterior stricture of recent development. In such cases the most conspicuous symptom, or perhaps the only other symptom, complained of by the patient besides the urinary stammering and urethrismus, is an obstinate gleet. Not only acquired strictures of comparatively wide calibre, but even, as abundantly shown by Dr. Otis and others, congenital contractions of the meatus, more or less pro- nounced, and playing the part of strictures, behind which chronic urethritis, or gleet, has established itself, may be the origin and perpetuating cause of the nervous disturb- ances which are expressed in the form of chronic urethral spasm. Until the pub- lication of Dr. Otis’s views and experience in 1876, corroborated by the testimony of Dr. J. W. White in 1877, it had been almost universally agreed that spasm of the urethral sphincter was always temporary, and that the obstruction so caused was in all cases to be distinguished from that due to organic or permanent stricture by its short duration or by its intermittent character.” These cases, however, demonstrated that a spasmodic contraction possessing all or nearly all the clinical characters of organic stricture, might be caused and perpetuated by a large stricture of the penile urethra, or even by contraction or stricture of the meatus. When spasm is suspected to exist, therefore, these latter conditions should be carefully searched for and removed, whereupon in every instance the spasm will promptly disappear. It should not be forgotten that, in certain extremely exceptional instances, a stricture may be so easily distended as to permit of the uninterrupted entrance and withdrawal of a very large sized instrument, and yet so elastic as immediately to contract and become a source of discharge, vesical irritability, etc. In one such case, already mentioned, which Dr. D. Hayes Agnew saw with me, the urethra would admit a No. 32 steel sound with great ease, and yet a No. 18 or 20 bulbous instrument invariably disclosed a dis- tinct abnormal contraction in the membranous urethra. In this case I performed ure- throtomy with a bulbous urethrotome, and subsequently dilated with a Thompson’s dilator to 36, securing a long interval of apparent health. The stricture, however, has returned and is again becoming troublesome. Such conditions, as I have said, are of great rarity, but their occasional occurrence cannot be denied, and they afford an additional argument in favor of the careful exploration of the urethra with a bougie-a-boule in all cases of obstinate gleet. Strictures of Large Calibre.—Having then determined the existence, situation and calibre, and exact character of an abnormal coarctation, the patient should he instructed to return in five or six days for treatment, being told, as in all cases after the first use of urethral instruments, that probably there will be some scalding when he next urinates, and that a few drops of blood may make their appearance. At the end of that time, a conical steel sound about two numbers larger than the bulbous bougie originally used, and with the proper urethral curve—the arc of a circle having a radius of one and five-eighths inches—should be warmed, oiled, and very gently inserted into the bladder. It should be with- drawn far enough to relieve the desire to urinate, usually excited by its pres- ence, and should then be allowed to remain in situ for from three to five min- utes, provided that it does not give rise to continued pain. After five days or a week, according to the amount of subsequent irritation, a sound a size or two larger should be employed, and this should he continued until the normal cali- bre of the urethra is nearly or quite represented by the size of the instrument, This mode of treatment is safer, surer, and less painful than either urethrotomy 1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May 12, 1881.