611 ECZEMA. vessels, and this condition may last indefinitely. It may disappear by re- absorption of the exudation, or may be developed into more advanced forms of the affection. Eczema Papulosum.—This is characterized by the development of red eleva- tions, varying in size from that of a pin’s bead to that of a small pea, scattered more or less sparsely over the affected surface, or closely arranged in groups. These papules are produced by the distension and elevation of the papillae by an exudation, from the greatly enlarged vascular loops within them, of serum and cells, and, although apparently devoid of free fluid, they will, if their outer horny layer of epithelium be pierced with a needle, allow a minute drop of serum to exude. These papules may, individually, last a few days only, or for much longer periods, and they may disappear by absorption without further transformation; or their tips may be excoriated by the scratching which the attending itching provokes, and this may give rise to the establishment of serous and hemorrhagic crusts; or they may become converted into more advanced forms of efflorescence, viz., the vesicle or pus- tule. This variety of eczema is still called lichen by some dermatologists. Eczema Vesiculosum.—Vesicles in eczema may appear primarily as such, or may be developed from preceding papules. The exudation of serum in- creases within the papillae, oozes up into the mucous layer of the epidermis, pushing apart the cells of the rete and drawing them out into thread-like forms, and finally penetrates to the horny layer, which resists its upward flow. Thus we have formed a chambered or compound vesicle, having its septa made up from the elongated cells of the rete, its base being the lowest cells of the latter, and its roof the horny layer. In this way the papular eczema of to-day may become to-morrow an eczema vesiculosum. The vesi- cular variety is one of the rarest forms of the disease, notwithstanding that Willan and his followers have regarded this as its typical and elementary lesion. It is always an acute stage. The vesifcles may remain as such for a few days, when, their contents becoming absorbed, the overlying roofs of epithelial cells flatten down, and are thrown off finally in the form of scales. Usually, however, this natural process of involution is not followed, for the roofs of the vesicles are either topi off violently by the nails in scratching, or the exudation from below is so great as to burst through the horny epithelial coverings. In either case, an abundance of clear serum oozes from the de- nuded and inflamed surface, and coagulates in the form of yellowish crusts. Eczema Madidans.—-When large surfaces are thus deprived of their protect- ing epithelium, and large tracts of the bypenemic papillary layer of the skin are exposed, this weeping, moist condition is called Eczema madidans. In case the inflammation be of extraordinary intensity, or if the tender, denuded mucous or papillary layer be wounded further bjr scratching or pressure, bleeding takes place from the enlarged vessels, and we have the formation of hemorrhagic crusts in place of the simple, yellow, serous form of the disease. Beneath these crusts, sooner or later, a new epidermis forms, which for a time remains somewhat reddened and scaly before the integument is restored to its completely normal condition. Eczema Pustulosum.—If, however, the vesicles are not ruptured in this way, by violence or excessive exudation, and if absorption does not take place immediately, their clear contents may become turbid by the penetration with- in their cavities of pus cells. This transformation of a vesicle into a pustule may take place rapidly, or a sero-purulent exudation may at once push up the