322 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. and about an inch in width, but surrounded by a deep-seated infiltration easily to be felt at a distance of two inches in either direction. The next day the burning pain was gone. Pustules, however, appeared, but the deep dusky redness was diminished; a little suppuration only occurred. A small cross-cut in the plaster was then made, with a fresh application daily. In less than a week the core was entirely removed by a gentle pull at the time of daily dressing. The healing process now rapidly advanced, and the patient left on the eighteenth day. A modification of this plan has been practised by Dr. Ashhurst with great success in several cases. Strips of ordinary adhesive plaster are applied con- centrically, beginning well beyond the limits of the carbuncle, and gradually covering it in, each layer overlapping its predecessor till the whole surface, except about three-fourths of an inch square, in the centre, is covered. Under this treatment the swelling is rapidly subdued, the sloughing and suppura- tion being confined to the central area. In one case, carefully measured, the carbuncle was reduced from a diameter of five and three quarters by four inches to one and a quarter inch each way, in a period of seven days, while the slough was all removed in eight days from the incipiency of the disease. Pressure, so far from being painful, pro- cures relief; the dressing, whether by straps or plaster, must be renewed daily, in consequence of its becoming loose. In this connection, the author may say that he has obtained satisfactory results by using a ring of cotton cloth stuffed with cotton-wool, and held down by a bandage so as to produce pressure upon the border of the car- buncle, thus driving the pus toward the centre, and preventing the extension of the disease. A modification of the plan by pressure, striving to obtain also the therapeutical effect of iodine in relieving the inflammatory condition, has been brought forward by Mr. Iligginbottom. He uses the preparation known as Pigmentum iodinii cum collodio, which is made with a scruple each of iodine and iodide of potassium to the ounce of collodion. This pig- ment being painted daily over the indurated part, steadily contracts, and pressure is thus constantly maintained. Mr. Higginbottom’s custom was, however, to use this in connection with destruction of the central portion of the carbuncle by caustic. This plan was warmly advocated by Seiche, who treated eleven patients in the ordinary way with incisions, six of these dying, and five of them from pysejnia. He treated twelve afterwards with collodion, and all recovered. The abortive treatment of carbuncle has had but little success. Professor Jordan proposes the use of iodine applied as a counter-irritant widely around the diseased point, going, if this be upon the nape of the neck, to the roots of the hair and sides of the neck, out to the shoulders, and down on the back for several inches. Such a variety of opinions with reference to the proper therapeutics of car- buncle, has led many surgeons to believe that no treatment is as useful as any of these active measures. A slough of certain dimensions is very sure to occur, and they prefer to leave the process of its formation and separation to nature, rather than to interfere in any active manner. They urge the con- sideration already mentioned, that the cut surfaces increase the facility of absorbing the necrosed exudates, without materially hastening the result. Dressings.—The local applications—which may be called the dressings of the sore, day by day—are, by universal consent, of the emollient kind, and such as favor the removal of the secretions. Soft poultices of bread, of flax- seed, or of slippery-elm, are commonly applied as a soft covering, but other surgeons resort to the yeast poultice and charcoal, for purposes of disin-