GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 177 wounds through the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, was, respectively, 44 per cent. (58 out of 132), 46.5 per cent. (27 out of 58), and 70 per cent. (16 out of 23); while the death-rate of those through the temporal bone was but 38.7 per cent. (12 out of 31), probably because of the fact that the larger proportion of such injuries never come under treatment. Wounds of the cerebellum almost always prove quickly fatal, though in a case reported by S. W. Gross the patient lived nearly five days:— “At the expiration of forty-eight hours after the reception of the injury . . . his manner was perfectly rational . . . he complained of no pain in the head, nor suffered from special symptoms . . . his thumbs were adducted and strongly flexed in the palms, and he told us that he suffered from persistent priapism, which we found to be the case. There were no other general symptoms : the man had a good appetite, was continually walking about. . . . On the morning of the 11th (April) we found him in his tent dead, and in the supine position. The calvaria having been removed, the somewhat misshapen buckshot was seen to be in contact with the corpus dentatum of the right lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum. A small splinter of bone was lying in the track of the wound, and the morbid appearances were confined to slight ecchymosis of the cerebellum, and a small quantity of bloody serum at the base of the organ.” In the majority of cases which clo not prove fatal, more or less cerebral dis- turbance is likely to be experienced during the after-life of the individual; headache, irritability, inability to endure exposure to the sun, etc. Epilepsy is a not infrequent result, as is impairment of the special senses, particu- larly of sight and hearing. Legouest says that he has even seen two cases of immediate and irrecoverable loss of sight after injury of the supra-orbital nerve ; though it is probable that such a condition was really due to either frontal fissure extending into the optic foramen, with or without intra-vagi- nal extravasation, or to hemorrhagic detachment of the retina.1 Impairment of vision at a later period may be caused by plastic choroiditis. Generally, the blindness after non-penetrating injuries is unilateral; when occurring on both sides, the prognosis seems to be more favorable. Wounds of the mas- toid process are very often followed by deafness, and occasionally by facial paralysis. More or less persistent, early aphasia has been not infrequently observed in injuries involving the “ language centre.”2 The frequently occur- ring primary paralysis of the extremities may become permanent in greater or less degree. On the other hand, no damage other than that which is local and tempo- rary may be produced, and ball and even bone may remain for years in the brain without doing any harm. Such cases, however, are but the fortunate exceptions proving the rule; and many times it has happened that, after a long period of apparently perfect health, death has resulted from the presence of the foreign body. Treatment of Gunshot Fractures.—Respecting the proper mode of treatment of these cases, there has been and is much diversity of opinion, and, whatever rules may be laid down, individual judgment must, in any given case, largely 1 Berlin, upon examining thirty-four such non-penetrating cases, found fractures of the walls of the orbital canal in every one. Cohn observed one case, during the Franco-German war, in which a fragment of shell wounded the right upper eyelid and brow, and caused partial blind- ness of the right eye. Six months later, on account of the development of sympathetic ophthal- mia, enucleation of the right eye was practised, and examination showed that there were remains of a former hemorrhage in front of and behind a projecting fold of the retina, in the region of the macula. 2 As long ago as during Napoleon’s Russian campaign, Larrey noticed two cases of aphasia, due not to gunshot but to rapier and lance wounds, cases in which, however, the lesions did not, at least directly, affect Broca’s convolution or the parts immediately about it. VOL. II.—12