TREATMENT BY WATER-DRESSING. 47 of charpie,lint, or other material, and left to heal as best the}' could, under cover of these masses of dressings saturated with blood, serum, or pus. The prac- tice, moreover, was simple and cleanly, and, when perfected, was comfortable to the patient to whom it was applied; that is, it became so, as soon as the value of a piece of oiled silk, or thin gutta-percha, tissue, applied over the wet lint, was recognized, the wet lint before this improvement having soon become dry, and what might have been at first a wet dressing, having been thus converted into a dry one. The water-dressing likewise soon took the place of poultices, for by one, as by the other, warmth and moisture were applied to the wound. In 1835, M. Josse, a hospital surgeon of Amiens, published a book on the use of cold water in surgical dressings, and advocated its use^Jirst, as a trust- worthy and efficient means for the control of inflammation in parts not wounded; and secondly, as a dressing for wounds.1 If we had the choice, he says, referring to the treatment of the first class of cases, in which there is no wound, “ it might be established as a general principle that we ought to employ water by affusion with a continual stream, but the nature of the parts, or of the disease, may prevent this, and oblige us to recur to another method ; thus, linen moistened with water, and renewed without ceasing, may to a certain degree prove a substitute for the affusions, but this mode requires much attention.” He subsequently describes his own method : “A vessel with a cock near its base is filled with water, and placed upon a narrow and high table, near the patient’s bed, in such a position that it shall be about a foot and a half above the diseased limb, beneath which a cerecloth is spread, intended to guard the bed, and facilitate the flow of the water, which is received in a bucket, placed near for that purpose, and into which the extremity of the cerecloth descends.” “ The diseased part should then be placed in the most convenient position; it should be lightly covered with compresses; an additional piece of linen should surround the cock by one of its extremities, while the other is ex- tended over the highest point of the apparatus. This is destined to prevent the water from falling with all its weight on the diseased part, and rather to disperse it over a larger surface.” I have described this method of using cold water fully, for it is one now recognized as the treatment by “ irrigationwhich, whether employed as cold affusion to check inflammation in injured parts, as in joints, or to keep wounds clean, is of great value. M. Josse likewise advocated the use of cold water as applied to gunshot or lacerated wounds generally, and in this received the support of the best mili- tary and civil surgeons. He declared that— “ When cold water is applied directly after the injury, before reaction has taken place, and when it can be maintained with energy proportionate to the occasion, the phenomena of reaction will be prevented; heat, pain, and swelling will be subdued; and consequently sympathetic fever will not take place; but when the cold has not been applied before the development of the inflammatory symptoms, they will still be con- quered by its efficient use.” In these opinions most surgeons will agree, for at the present day the value of cold in checking and controlling inflammatory action is fully recognized; but cold is not now often employed in the manner described, the introduction into general use of ice and ice-bags having led to the adoption of simpler and more effective methods of application. The metallic coil of Leiter, of Vienna, 1 [“A great deal has been said,” says Liston, “about water-dressing, and the merit of intro- ducing it. Water has been applied to sores from time immemorial. The simple element, water, was supposed to be congenial to wounds and sores ; it was used to cool parts. The water-dress- ing has been used in my hospital and private practice for a long series of years, etc.” (Practical Surgery, p. 162. Philadelphia, 1838.)]