389 TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. On the occurrence of joint-symptoms, place the patient immediately at rest, and limit the movements of the diseased articulation, which should first be freely painted with iodine, then enveloped in a layer of cotton wadding, and, finally, confined by means of a splint. Purge briskly with a saline cathartic, and after its action has ceased, place the patient at once upon full—almost heroic—doses of quinia and small—anti-plastic—doses of some mercurial, preferably the protiodide of mercury. The use of these latter remedies constitutes the essential element of this particular plan of treatment. The quinine should be given in ten-grain powders three or four times daily, or oftener, if the symptoms of cinchonism are not marked, and should be pushed to the fullest degree consistent with safety. The mercurial should be administered in doses of a quarter or a third of a grain four times daily, until the gums and posterior molars become slightly sensitive, when the dose may be somewhat reduced. At first, a hypodermic injection of a quarter of a grain of morphia may be given at bedtime, but this will not be necessary for more than a few days. The splint should be removed daily, and, after the first three or four days, gentle motion should be made in the joint, espe- cially if it be the wrist, after which it should be painted with iodine and immobilized again. If the case is unusually obstinate, leeches around the joint may be required. The diet should be generous, and great attention must be paid to the condition of the digestive tract. Urethral treatment, if mild in character and not involving instrumental interference, may go on un- interruptedly, but I have found it better to avoid the passage of bougies, at least during the acute stage of the rheumatism. The disappearance of the swelling may be hastened by “ strapping” the joint with adhesive plaster, something after the fashion of its use in epididymitis. This should not be done, however, until after the acute symptoms have subsided. I now have notes of nine cases treated in this manner, the last six having been recorded with considerable detail, as I had become convinced of the great superiority of this treatment over all other methods with which I had had any experience. The average time required for the permanent relief of pain has been about one week, and in every case but one the functions of the joint have been partially re-established by the end of the second week, in a few cases almost completely so. I hardly hope to maintain this degree of success with a very large number of cases, but believe it to be so much better than that afforded by the salicylates, by iodide of potassium and colchicum, by blistering of the joint, etc., all of which methods I have repeatedly tried, that I shall certainly continue its employment, and now venture respectfully to recommend it to the profession. According to Dr. Cameron,1 “treatment produces little or no effect; the disease, when severe, is always very chronic, and marked throughout by a disposition to occa- sional amendments, followed by disappointing relapses. It is not surely assuming too much to say that the articular affection is probably excited by the absorption into the system of some form of septic poison.” The same writer narrates two cases of multiple abscesses with well-developed pyaemic symptoms, one of them terminating fatally, fol- lowing this variety of rheumatism. Prof. Wm. H. Draper, of New York,2 believes that the disease is a subacute rheu- matism, and says he does not know “ how he would distinguish it from an ordinary case of subacute rheumatism which was not associated with gonorrhoea.” He adds, how- ever : “ It is the most obstinate, the most rebellious to treatment, of all forms of rheumatism ; the most discouraging Neither alkalies, nor salicylic acid, nor iodide of potassium, nor colchicum, nor any of the remedies that have been used in the treatment of rheumatism, seem to have any effect upon it”—thus, as it appears to 1 Glasgow Medical Journal, February, 1881. 2 Detroit Lancet, February, 1881.