565 SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. although I have carefully examined a considerable number of subjects of in- herited syphilis, during the past few years, yet I cannot say more in favor of the diagnostic value of these teeth than that, when present in typical form, they have a certain weight in favor of the existence of hereditary syphilis in the given subject. I should hesitate to base a diagnosis in a doubtful case upon the evidence of the teeth alone. The annexed illustrations, some of which are taken from Hutchinson, and one from W. F. Norris, show several varie- ties of syphilitic teeth. Fig. 335. Fig. 336. Fig. 337. Syphilitic teeth. Affections of the Nervous System.—The affections of the nervous sys- tem in hereditary syphilis have been studied chiefly by English physicians, and during the past decade.1 Many cases of brain disease formerly believed to be of tubercular origin are now known or suspected to be syphilitic in character. The results of meningeal inflammation, such as thickening and adhesion of the membranes by the development of fibrous tissue and gummy material, and the endoarteritis often observed in syphilis of adults, have been noted in infantile syphilis. Grummata have also been observed, and the pre- vailing impression among investigators at present tends to the belief that the same nervous affections may occur in hereditary as in acquired syphilis. Our present knowledge of these affections is, however, very incomplete. Jackson has described the chorea of hereditarily syphilitic infants and young children, which is sometimes a slight affection, while at other times it is more severe and may lead to epilepsy. Other writers have described cases of facial paralysis. The nervous affections of hereditary syphilis, like those of the acquired disease, are disorderly and complex in the development of their symptoms ; a quite characteristic point. 1 See Hughlings Jackson, Cases of Diseases of the Nervous System in Patients the subjects of Hereditary Syphilis. London, 1868 ; and Nervous Symptoms in Cases of Hereditary Syphilis (Journ. Mental Sciences, Jan. 1875) ; also Barlow (Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxviii. 1877) ; and T. Stretch Dowse, The Brain and its Diseases. London, 1877.