WOUNDS. 40 wound ; in another, by enlarging it; whilst in a third, a fresh opening may be called for in the most dependent part of the injured region. Under all circumstances, however, the object is the same: to give vent to the pent-up fluids of the part, whether inflammatory or otherwise. At the same time, the injured part should be raised, to encourage the venous circulation through the limb, and, as a rule, pain will be relieved by the local application of warmth and moisture, whether in the form of a compress or in that of a fomentation, mixed with sedatives, such as opium or poppy decoctions. Cold rarely gives comfort in these cases, and it certainly does no good towards checking inflammatory action, since that which is clearly occasioned by re- tained secretions, is only to be relieved by their removal. For the same reasons, leeches are rarely applicable, although in a plethoric and vigorous patient they may be permissible ; but even in such, the judicious use of small and repeated doses of sulphate of magnesium has a more powerful effect for good with less risk of doing harm. In the treatment of all punctured wounds, the surgeon has only to remem- ber that, as their danger consists in the difficulty of providing efficient drain- age, so their treatment turns upon this deficiency being remedied ; and the surgeon who, on the first appearance of local or general symptoms indicative of the presence of retained fluids, makes an outlet by one or other of the means which have been suggested—even when the outlet is only for the escape of pent-up serum—will be more successful than another who, from timidity or other cause, leaves the case to run its course, till a large inflammatory ab- scess has formed from the irritation caused by the fluids which should have been evacuated. In all punctured wounds which do not heal quickly by primary union, and in which secondary inflammation occurs, with its neces- sary effusion, it is the surgeon’s duty to find an outlet for the fluids of the part as soon as the fact of their retention is clear. The artificial formation of a free vent for these fluids will he followed by relief, both locally and gene- rally, and will almost always save tissue; whilst delay in adopting this prac- tice is not only locally deleterious, hut may even prove dangerous to life. When thecte of tendons, fascise, and fibrous coverings, as of hones, are involved, the necessity of adopting this practice is more important, if possible, than when the softer tissues are implicated; and an incision into the deep parts for the evacuation of even simple serum, by relieving tension, will often pre- vent the extension of the inflammation, and prevent destruction of tissue. Tooth Wounds. Tooth wounds are usually punctured, and rarely other than contused. They may, as may all other kinds, prove to be poisoned wounds, but to these I do not refer. They differ widely in their character; and whilst one case may appear as a simple, clean, punctured wound, another may exhibit all the worst features of the contused or lacerated variety. They are to he dealt with as punctured or contused wounds, each case being treated on its own merits. Treatment of an Open or Granulating Wound. When a wound is granulating, and consequently suppurating, it should be kept clean, as other wounds, and it should be dressed with such a material as may be adapted to protect the granulations from outside injurious influ- ences, and to allow the cicatrizing process to go on without hindrance. The granulations themselves should never, for purposes of cleanliness, he touched