349 COMPLICATIONS OF CATARRHAL GONORRIKEA. complication of a urethritis, there is an inflammation of some of the structures of the eye, known as Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia. The sclerotic coat, the iris, and the oculo-palpebral conjunctiva, are the tissues chiefly affected—the symptoms being those of a common iritis or conjunctivitis, attended with considerable aching pain, and accompanied by only a moderate amount of muco-purulent discharge. The usual remedies have a beneficial effect, but the disease tends to run a rather chronic course, and finally to subside spontaneously. This complication should not be confused with the very different and much more serious condition of Gonorrhoeal Conjunctivitis, although they are often spoken of as identical. The latter trouble is a result always of direct inocu- lation, the pus being transferred by the finger or otherwise to the edge or inside surface of the lids. The symptoms commonly make their appearance within a few hours, and are at first like those of a simple catarrhal conjunc- tivitis. They increase, however, with almost incredible rapidity, so that an eye which twenty-four hours previously was entirely healthy, will be found with tense, swollen, oedematous, bulging, erysipelatous-looking lids, from between the closely-approximated edges of which a thick purulent secretion is oozing; on separating them the conjunctiva is found injected and cheinosed, and bathed in pus. In a short time, if the chemosis is not relieved, the supply of blood being cut off" from the cornea, the latter ulcerates in one or more spots, or may become detached and fall out entirely, permitting a complete loss of the contents of the globe. This whole series of phenomena may occur within three or four days, and not infrequently has occupied only half that time. The pus from such an inflammation is intensely contagious, irritates the cheek over which it flows, and will, to a certainty, affect the sound eye if any be allowed to come in contact with it. (See Plate VII. Figs. 2, 30. It is of great importance that, from the very onset of the disease, it should be distinguished from the mild, self-curable affection which we have described. The main points of difference are contained in the following table:— Gonorrhceal Conjunctivitis. Produced by contagion only. Occurs once in seven hundred or eight hundred cases of gonorrhoea. May be derived from a second person by pus inoculation. Involves one eye primarily. Remains limited to eye originally af- fected, unless the other is accidentally in- oculated. Symptoms affect the conjunctiva from the start. Symptoms of greatest gravity and ur- gency. No association with subsequent gon- orrhoea. No relation to joint troubles, or other rheumatic manifestations. Tendency to rapid destruction of tissues involved. Treatment very useful; should be prompt and energetic. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia. Produced probably by septicsemic infec- tion. Has no relation to direct contagion. Occurs once in fifty or sixty cases. Can only occur in a patient having urethritis. Involves both eyes usually. Frequently passes from one eye to the other. Symptoms affect the fibrous tissues, the sclerotic coat, and iris. Symptoms mild, subacute. Frequently returns with each later at- tack of gonorrhoea. Most commonly found to coexist with some other form of gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism. Tendency to final but slow cure. Treatment not very effective; should be mild and expectant. This form of conjunctivitis does not differ in any of its essential features from Ophthalmia Neonatorum, or from the ophthalmia which has been artifi-