THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 240 examination showed the duodenum to he perfectly healthy. It is probable that cicatrization of the ulcer occasionally takes place: Mr. Holmes reports the case of a child, three and a half years of age, who, on the twenty-eighth day of severe burns, died from pneumonia, when, at the autopsy, “a circular patch about the size of a four-penny piece was found at the commencement of the duodenum, where the mucous membrane was deficient and the exposed surface was cicatrized.” An interesting case of duodenal ulcer, which occurred in this city some years ago, was seen by Dr. S. W. Gross, who has given me the following particulars:— The case was one of exhaustion from opium poisoning, and the medical man in at- tendance, in order to induce reaction, placed bottles of very hot water along the patient’s limbs and side, and injected hot water into the rectum. So vigorous was the treatment that the precautions in the physician’s instructions against burning the patient were overlooked, and destructive inflammation followed, with extensive sloughing, not only of a large portion of the skin of the lower extremities, but also of the mucous mem- brane of the rectum. The patient, however, did well until the twenty-first day, when suddenly he was seized with abdominal pain, and death supervened in twenty-four hours. The post-mortem examination showed general peritonitis, and also disclosed mi ulcer of the duodenum, opposite the entrance of the ductus communis choledochus. Complications Involving the Respiratory Organs.—Laryngitis, bron- chitis, or pneumonia, may occur as a result of burns or scalds; the first not infrequently follows the inhalation of hot steam. The symptoms are charac- teristic: aphonia, dyspnoea, and great pain. (Edema may occur suddenly with most alarming symptoms. Cases have been reported in which trache- otomy has been performed, in order to avert impending death. Pneumonia and bronchitis are not infrequently developed in the course of burns, espe- cially in those of the chest and neck. Cerebral Complications.—In the early stages of these injuries, evidences of cerebral irritation often appear: inflammation may occur, with effusion, accompanied by violent delirium; and convulsions and coma are usually observed before a fatal termination. Delirium does not always indicate in- flammation of the brain or its meninges; for even in the less serious cases of burn or scald, it is not uncommon to have traumatic delirium, or surgical fever, of a mild form coming on early after the injury, appearing usually to- wards evening, and recurring at varying intervals ; besides, the ursemic condi- tion incident to the albuminuric state, with low specific gravity of the urine, would in many cases readily account for the cerebral symptoms. Various complications may arise, as in any other form of injury, at almost any time during the course of the treatment: among these maybe mentioned tetanus ; simple or phlegmonous erysipelas; hemorrhage, from sloughing, which may open either arterial or venous trunks; joint complications, from the opening by sloughing of articulations of greater or less magnitude; and contractions. When a large extent of skin has been lost by either a burn or a scald, contraction necessarily occurs; if the lost tissue is in the vicinity of the bend of a joint, as the elbow, wrist, or knee, the contraction which fol- lows seriously impairs and sometimes entirely destroys the function of the part, and in healing leaves most terrible deformity. Prognosis of Burns. When the skin and subcutaneous tissues are acted upon by caloric in an intense and active form, certain morbid conditions result, the prognosis of