710 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAS. acromion, and, when forced beneath it by the pressure of the humeral tube- rosity, will by rolling upon one another produce the crackling and slipping sensations. These are synchronous, and both correspond to a point two and a half centimetres outside of the line of the tendon. Persons following labori- ous occupations often present marked thickening of the bursal walls, with fibroid hands traversing the cavities. If an injury be now received, the sur- geon on examination will detect the symptoms already given, and may diagnose luxation of the biceps tendon. Jarjavay, in a case of undoubted acute bursitis of this sac, detected every one of the typical symptoms of such an injury. Diagnosis.—Although many burste, when enlarged, may receive a trans- mitted pulsation from the artery, and so simulate aneurism, their mobility, the nature of the pulsation, etc., will readily eliminate any source of error. Strumous arthritis is the only affection likely to be confounded with a chro- nic bursitis of this sac. A review of the symptoms of bursitis, with a re- membrance of the fact that, except in abduction, motion produces only uneasiness, when the arm is supported, while the joint-surfaces can be pressed together without pain being developed, will insure a correct diagnosis. When the bursa communicates, as it often does, with the shoulder-joint, the disease may extend from the former to the latter, or vice versa. Treatment.—The application of electricity to the weakened muscles, counter- irritation, and passive motion, are what Jarjavay has found efficient in the chronic cases; while in the acute, treatment must be conducted on general principles. Ho operation beyond antiseptic puncture or aspiration should be attempted for the cure of any enlarged bursa in this region. More severe measures so often result in serious consequences, that it would be bad surgery to run unnecessary risk when safer measures will suffice. The aspirator or exploring needle should be used to detect pus, which, if found, should be drawn off by the former instrument. If this fail to effect a cure, the suppu- rating sac should, of course, be laid open, but only antiseptically, as the bursa might communicate with the shoulder-joint.1 Sub-scapularis and Infra-spinatus Bursa:.—These are mentioned merely because, from their usually communicating with the joint, they are apt, when the latter is diseased, to become secondarily involved. When primarily affected, pain will be developed by drawing the arm away from the side, and at the same time rotating it either inwards or outwards ; pressing the joint- surfaces together produces no discomfort. Infra-serratus Bursa.—By this I mean the bursa situated between the inferior angle of the scapula and the chest-wall. It is not constant, but fre- quently present in those performing manual labor. I give prominence to the enlargement of this bursa, because of the peculiar friction-like crepitation or creaking which is not an infrequent precursor and concomitant of its forma- tion. This—most distinctly felt and heard over the inferior scapular angle —is propagated to the point of the shoulder, and even along the arm. This pseudo-crepitus has been mistaken, by careless or inexperienced observers, for either a fracture of the ribs or scapula, or for a dry arthritis of the shoulder- joint, Boinet was the first to point out this symptom, and Terrillon has written two able papers on it. To a very minor degree, this symptom can be developed in apparently healthy individuals, by strongly pressing the scapula against the thorax while the bone is forced to execute various movements. 1 “ Hyper-distension” may Be substituted for an antiseptic dressing, wlien the essentials for the latter are wanting.