656 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. of the sinuses, and from them are at times discharged peculiar black and white masses. The same kind of black granular matter sometimes studs the surface of the tubercles, and has, in its gross appearance, been likened to fish- roe. On section of the foot after death, or after amputation, all its soft tissues are found to be converted into a homogeneous, opaque, gelatiniform substance, traversed in all directions by canals, which communicate with large and small spherical cavities, varying in size from that of a pin’s head to that of a bullet. The bones of the foot, as well as the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, are perforated in every direction by similar cavities, which, like those in the soft tissues, are filled with a soft material, usually yellowish, but sometimes pinkish, and sometimes black. It is with regard to the nature of this material which fills the cavities and canals, and which is from them discharged upon the surface, that the greatest difference of opinion prevails among those who have had opportunities of studying the disease. Dr. Carter, of Bombay, first gave prominence to the opinion that the disease was due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and described the peculiar substance found in the diseased tissues, of the various colors above mentioned, as masses of fungus growth, a mucor or chionyphe. Berkely, a leading mycologist, has pronounced a similar opinion as to their nature. Other observers deny that, the disease is either in origin, or essentially, a mycosis, regarding it as of in- ternal origin, and considering the occasional presence of possible fungus-growth as only accidental. Whether the disease be primarily deep-seated, establishing its connection with the outer surface and integument in its later stages ; or whether it begins at the periphery, has never been definitely established, for want of proper study of its early stages. Its parasitic nature must still be held in doubt. Pathologists who deny this, have no explanation to give of the peculiar characters of its anatomical changes. The disease attacks men most frequently, and makes its appearance generally after adult life. Its tendencies are to a fatal termination after a long course. The only treatment found effective is amputation above the line of disease. A case closely re- sembling mycetoma has been described in this country by Dr. Kemper.1 ■ Parasitic Affections. I. Vegetable Parasites. There are three well-recognized diseases of the skin caused by the growth within its tissues of vegetable parasites. These are Tinea favosa, Tinea tricho- phytina, and Tinea versicolor. The growths which cause these affections be- long to the lowest order of plant life, the fungi or moulds, and consist, as far as represented in such a phase of existence, of fine, cylindrical, thread-like, elongated filaments called mycelium; of minute, spherical, or ovoid cells called spores, or conidia; and of even more minute bodies, micrococcus, or stroma. These forms are capable of reproducing themselves, when transferred under proper conditions to the skins of other individuals. From what source they originally became parasitic upon man, or what their real botanical relations are to common moulds, we have no positive knowledge. Tinea Favosa.—Favus, as it is commonly called, is the least frequent of these affections. It is characterized by the occurrence of yellow crusts upon the scalp or general surface, circular or ovoid in outline, and concave above. These vary in size from a minute point to half an inch in diameter, and are several lines in elevation above the surface of the skin at their edges. By 1 American Practitioner, September, 1876.