243 TREATMENT OF BURNS AND SCALDS. dered tragacanth, sago, salep, sugar, of each one ounce; prepared oyster- shell two drachms ; to be divided into one drachm powders. This affords a most nutritious food, and at the same time a most excellent corrective to a relaxed intestine. Inflammation of the air-passages as a result of the inhala- tion of steam, alone or combined with carbonaceous and sulphurous fumes, and other noxious gases, not infrequently proves fatal. Bronchitis, pneu- monia, and pleura-pneumonia, particularly in young subjects, are apt to result, especially from burns and scalds involving the chest and neck. Of all abdo- minal organs, the kidneys seem to be most commonly affected in the course of burns and scalds, and at an early period. As has already been said, if the urine be examined when the temperature rises to 101.5° or 102° F., albu- men will be found, and, in accordance with the rise in temperature will the quantity of albumen be increased; and in proportion to the amount of albumen, the case assumes a grave character. The alkalies are here indi- cated, combined with sweet spirit of nitre, or the spirit of Mindererus, or any other mild diuretic. The patient’s room should be kept as nearly as possible at a uniform temperature. Local Treatment.—When a portion of the cutaneous surface has been injured by heat, although the repair which follows is in no manner different from that which occurs after an injury or destruction of skin from other causes, yet the peculiar symptoms incident to burns and scalds require special forms of treatment; and the applications which are most esteemed are those which speedily relieve or prevent pain, and are at once emollient, soothing, and disinfectant in their nature. Carbolic Acid seems to possess in a very remarkable degree the property of lessening or entirely overcoming pain when brought into contact with burned or scalded surfaces, and, when combined with cosmoline or olive oil, it affords an application which possesses qualities eminently appropriate to the treat- ment of burns. In addition to the relief from pain experienced by the use of carbolic acid, its disinfectant power is, in this special class of cases, of great value. For many years past, in the Pennsylvania Hospital, all cases of burns and scalds have been treated with carbolic acid in some form or other; the preparations most commonly used are carbolized cosmoline, carbolized olive oil, and, occasionally, the oxide of zinc ointment combined with the phenol. The carbolized cosmoline consists of the ordinary ointment of petroleum, with five per cent, of crystallized carbolic acid. The carbolized olive oil consists of eleven parts of pure olive oil to one part of Calvert’s liquid car- bolic acid, No. 4. In some cases of extensive surface scalds, the benzoated oxide of zinc ointment has been used in the proportion of thirty parts of the zinc ointment to one part of Calvert’s carbolic acid, No. 4, but the first two mixtures are made in accordance with recognized house formulce, and have been used almost exclusively in the treatment of each and every form of burn or scald brought into the hospital. Carbolized water for irrigation is made in the uniform strength of one drachm to the pint; it is in constant demand in the surgical wards. These preparations fulfil all the indications required. The carbolic acid unquestionably produces more or less surface anaesthesia, and thus acts most beneficially ; and with the cosmoline or olive oil forms at once an eminently soothing, agreeable, anodyne, and disinfectant dressing—one which can be readily applied, and which, as it does not become dry, can be removed with little or no pain. In using the carbolized oil or the cosmoline, portions of old linen or lint are torn into strips, and -after being thoroughly saturated are laid upon the injured surface, and may, if desired, be covered with waxed- paper or oiled-silk, when by a few turns of a roller bandage the dressings