122 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. case of the round than in that of the conical bullet, and being greater when the movement of either form of ball is comparatively slow. The heavy pointed rifle-bullet, tired from a modern rifled musket, is unlikely to have its course much altered; while a pistol ball is frequently turned aside; and a round ball has over and again been found to “ run around” the half or even whole circumference of the body, its rate of speed being relatively low, and its axial rotation favoring the apparently anomalous course. Muscles.—These, when injured, are always considerably lacerated and con- tused, and infiltrated with extravasated blood; and, when the damage has been done by a large body, it will generally be found to extend through the whole length of the muscle, particularly so if there lias been simple contusion without associated open wound. When the entire belly of the muscle has been broken across, marked separation of the divided parts takes place. However, when a portion of a limb has been carried away, as by a round shot, retraction of the torn muscles does not occur, their contractility having been destroyed by the intense force of the blow. So great is the momentum of the small nTuscular fragments detached by the conical ball in its passage, that they themselves become actual missiles, and often materially add to the damage resulting from the shot. As might naturally be expected, tendons are much more resistant than the fleshy parts of the muscles. They are often pushed out of the way by the passing ball; and even when they must necessarily feel the force of the blow, as from a large shot, they may be protected by the earlier giving way of the muscular bellies. In a case, for example, reported by Gillette, in which there was a very extensive crushing of all the other soft parts from a wound of the leg and foot, the ten- dons of the extensors, of the tibialis anticus, and of the flexors were not involved. Bloodvessels.—These, as has long been known, though lying in the direct path of a ball, are not infrequently pushed aside, and escape all injury—arte- ries, because of their greater thickness and elasticity, being much more likely than are veins to be thus preserved from harm. Very frequently, however, damage is done, and there will be produced either (1) complete division, which is almost certain to occur if the wound has been made by small shot at short range, or by the sharp edge of an angular piece of shell, and which is fre- quently observed in rifle-ball wounds ; (2) the cutting out of a piece of the vessel wall; (3) contusion, followed by temporary or permanent occlusion of the canal, or by sloughing of the bruised vessel and consequent secondary hemorrhage; or (4) the formation of a traumatic aneurism, which may be limited to the artery itself, or may be arterio-venous, if both artery and vein have been involved in the injury. It is possible, also, as shown by a case reported by Lidell, that an aneurism may be developed from the extremity of a completely divided artery. Nerves.—Much less often than bloodvessels are nerves found to have safely glided away from the vulnerating body, their more usually observed injuries being division, complete or partial, contusion, and concussion. Occa- sionally small foreign bodies (such as splinters of wood or pieces of lead) become lodged in a nerve, causing either little or no inconvenience, or, as is more common, severe and persistent neuralgia. Impairment or entire loss of motion or sensation; pain of varying degree and duration, at times burning (the causalgia of Mitchell); trophic changes, or absolute destruction of the vitality of the parts supplied, are the results of these nerve injuries.