153 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF JOINTS. the knee-joint (or at the knee), rather than at the lower third of the thigh.1 As a rule, having, however, numerous exceptions, such an amputation is also to he preferred to one in continuity just below, as, for instance, that through the tuberosities of the tibia, which was so much favored by Larrey. The head of the humerus should be saved, however, when possible, since the resulting stump is more shapely than that of amputation at the shoulder, and less likely to be injured in after life (not “ useless and inconvenient,” as de- clared by Larrey); again, if an inch or more of the bones of the forearm can be left, the resulting hook, in cases in which the motions of the elbow are preserved, is of great service; and a successful Pirogoff amputation gives a longer, firmer, and better stump than a Syme. The operative procedure to be adopted in any given case, must depend upon the locality and the condition of the damaged part, and the subsequent mode of dressing should be determined upon the same principles as those governing amputations in general. If the antiseptic system is not adopted, care must be taken to at least secure thorough drainage. Notwithstanding the excellent results that may at times follow the “ open treatment,” it is, as a rule, desirable to secure union by first intention, as tar as it may be possible to do so; and for this purpose bleeding from the cut surfaces must be arrested (preferably by the use of catgut ligatures and hot water); drainage-tubes should be inserted; and the parts should be closely apposed,.and held together by one or two deep, and a sufficient number of superficial stitches, aided, if thought best, by the elastic compression of sponge or cotton, held in place by a methodically applied bandage. Due attention must always be paid to what has been styled the “surgery of salubrity.” Gunshot Injuries of Joints. Joint wounds, which are both frequent and dangerous,2 are of two classes: penetrating and non-penetrating—the latter class including wounds and contusions of the overlying soft parts, extending down to the capsule or secondarily causing synovial inflammation, and fractures of the extremities of bones running to but not into the adjoining articulations. Unless the joint has been widely opened, or there is escape of synovia, an early diagnosis of penetration cannot be made, even though the ball has passed in and out, and the line of direction seems to run through the articulation. In a few cases, the ligaments or other periarticular structures cause deflection of the missile, and, on the other hand, because of the length and nature of the bul- let track, there may be no outflow of the joint secretion. When the diagno- sis is uncertain, the wound is to be explored, if at all, only with the finger; the probe should never be used, for it might very easily pass through an unopened synovial membrane, and thus convert a non-penetrating into a penetrating injury. The chief danger, as in joint wounds otherwise caused, is that of the production of suppurative synovitis, with its resulting local 1 Few American surgeons will agree with Legouest that the knee amputation is “ a bad opera- tion, more dangerous than amputation of the thigh in its continuity, and one that ought to be discarded from practice.” Though the correctness of his statement that its mortality (88.7 per cent.) is 13 per cent, higher than that of amputation of the thigh, is sustained by the 88.2 per cent, death-rate of the French operations in the Crimea, and rendered probable even by the 78 per cent, mortality of the 41 cases in the Mexican, Italian, Austrian, and Franco-German wars, tabulated by Salzmann, it is thoroughly disproved by the fact that in our late war, when at least 211 such operations were performed, the death-rate of 202 ascertained cases was more than 14 per cent, less than that of thigh amputations, 50.2 per cent, against 64.43 per cent. 2 Of 12,864 wounds tabulated by Longmore, 403 (3.13 per cent.) were of joints, and of these 130 (32.25 per cent.) proved fatal.