481 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. Affections of the Osseous System.—The close connection between the medulla of bone and the lymphatic elements of other portions of the system, has induced Jullien to offer disease of this tissue as an explanation of the osteocopie pains (darior, bone, and x6nru, to strike or beat, or 6otiov, hone, and xottou, to weary) experienced at this stage of syphilis. The frequent occurrence of this symptom, its striking features, and its peculiar nocturnal exacerbation make it one of the most characteristic signs of the disease. In some cases no objective symptoms are noted, but more frequently the signs presented are those of periostitis. The pains are usually observed at an early period, some- times showing themselves before the appearance of the eruption upon the skin. Patients complain of pains in various localities. The bones of the cranium—particularly the frontal—the ribs, sternum, and tibia, show various small, flat tumors, from one to two centimetres in diameter, raised, firm to the touch, and usually very tender and painful on pressure, even though spontane- ously indolent. The frontal bone is, as has been said, the commonest seat of these pains; and the tenderness of the tissues is in some cases so acute at this point that patients cannot wear their hats. The middle portion of the ribs, and the lower third of the sternum, will generally be found to be the seat of greatest tenderness—the latter, indeed, offering an important aid to the diagnosis of syphilis on account of its very general occurrence. It has been suggested that the sensitive condition of the ribs will account, to some degree, for the occa- sional occurrence of that form of dyspnoea known as “syphilitic asthma,” which is now and then observed at this stage of syphilis. This early form of periostitis usually gets well of itself in the course of a month or six weeks; but now and then, in cases of malignant early syphilis, it goes on to necrosis. Another form of early bone trouble, known as ym'osfosts, consists essentially in the development of non-inflammatory lesions of a bony character. It is usually a very early symptom, and may be induced by a blow, causing at first a limited traumatic periostitis, which may subsequently develop into the syphilitic lesion. As regards the common seats of these lesions, Popescu1 gives the following table:— Situated on the frontal bone, in 27.9 per cent, of cases. U “ tibia, ..... 16.3 a u U “ ribs, ..... “ parietal bones, 13.9 u u <4 9.3 u u 44 “ ulna, radius, clavicle, lower maxillary, sternum, each, 4.6 u u u “ temporal, first metatarsal, fibula, occiput, eacli 2.3 (4 44 These tumors are painful upon pressure, and spontaneously through the night; the feeling is as if the points affected had been beaten. Frequently they are found beneath the scalp, preventing the use of the comb, and on the crest of the tibia, where they may be no larger than a split pea ; these little bony tumors afford an important aid to the diagnosis of latent syphilis. Under the influence of treatment the lesions disappear, but untreated they may last indefinitely. Affections of the Liver.—That form of icterus which is found occa- sionally in connection with the early eruptions of syphilis, has been described by Gubler, Foville, Lacombe, and Delavarenne.1 2 It appears, however, accord- ing to the latter, that the essential morbid entity is in reality an affection of the liver, accompanied or not by icterus, which is thus reduced to its proper 1 These de Paris, 1873. 2 Essai sur la Syphilis du Foie ehez l’Adulte. Paris. 1879. VOL. II.—31