SYPHILIS. 558 simply that such is not the case. Xo instance has ever, to my knowledge, been reported where an infant has displayed a chancre derived from contagion during the process of birth. In connection with the etiology of hereditary syphilis, “ Colles’s law” may be mentioned. It is well known that a diseased child almost invariably in- fects a healthy wet-nurse who suckles it, but the infection of a mother by suckling her own diseased child is as yet unknown. This fact was first noticed by Abraham Colles, of Dublin, in 1837. It has been called by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson “ Colles’s Law.” The doctrine of choc en retour, or the transmission of syphilis from the foetus to the mother, was taught by Ricord, and has been more recently main- tained by Hutchinson and Dickinson, who assert that a man may beget an infected child which may convey the syphilitic virus to the mother. The chief ground for the acceptance of this view is found in the fact that mothers having produced syphilitic children, themselves develop specific symptoms during or soon after pregnancy. I think that, although there is nothing improbable about this theory, no conclusive evidence has as yet been brought forward to sustain it. Pathology. Syphilis of the Placenta.—The syphilitic lesions of the pla- centa are as yet only imperfectly understood. According as it is circum- scribed or not, syphiloma gives rise to gummatous placental endometritis, or to diffuse interstitial placentitis. Commonly both forms are associated. In the circumscribed form, the lesions often present the appearance of papular or condylomatous neoplasms, implanted in the free portion of the decidua, and formed of a very vascular mucous tissue. Sometimes they resemble hard tumors, and penetrate the tissue of the placental cotyledons like wedges. The fatty degeneration which results in these gummatous deposits makes it easy to confound them with tuberculous masses. The absence of vessels, the presence of refractive granulations, like those observed in syphilis of the liver, together with the sclerosis and concomitant external symptoms, will settle the diagnosis. Symptomatology op Hereditary Syphilis. Date of Appearance of the Lesions.—The only certain way of ascertain- ing the appearance of the earliest symptoms of hereditary syphilis is to watch for skin eruptions. Earlier visceral lesions there may be, but of these we can take no certain cognizance during life. The statistics of Diday and Roger, comprising 172 cases, show the following various dates after birth of the appearance of hereditary syphilitic symptoms :— Before the end of the first month in . . . .92 cases. “ “ third “ .... 67 “ “ “ fourth “ ..... 7 u “ “ fifth “ 1 case. “ “ sixth “ ..... 1 “ After the sixth month ........ 4 cases. It is thus seen that in the great majority of cases hereditary syphilis shows itself before the end of the third month. A few cases have been reported where the appearance of the symptoms has not occurred until the fifteenth month, and Diday gives one case where the visible outbreak was delayed until the end of the second year; but these cases are very exceptional.