156 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Fig. 259. diaphysis, the fissures running up to or into the epiphysis, without primarily opening the articulation. (Ordinarily, as has long been known, an epiphy- seal line limits the Assuring, whether from a wound above or below.) In the non-penetrating wounds, the joint may be “ contused and wrenched, and filled with extravasated blood; more severely injured than from a simple penetration of the capsular ligament (Neudorfer),” since suppurative synovitis is likely to be developed. As regards the side of the body, the left shoulder-joint, is more often wounded than the right, “ doubtless clue,” as pointed out by Otis, “ to the exposed position of the left shoulder in firing.”1 Associated with the joint injury, there is often fracture of the scapula or clavicle; damage to the important struc- tures in the axilla, or to the chest walls; and, very oc- casionally, wound of the chest cavity—a lesion of great danger, which patients rarely survive. At times, the ball penetrates without perforating the head of the humerus (Fig. 259), such cases of lodgment being de- cidedly graver than those in which the shot has passed through. Musket ball impacted in head of left humerus. (A. M. . . ... m„ spec. 2696.) .PROGNOSIS.—Ihe prognosis ot a shoulder wound, like that of any other, will depend upon the nature of the injury; the size, weight, and velocity of the missile; the presence or absence of complications; the health of the patient when wounded; his subsequent hygienic surroundings; and the treatment adopted; but, speaking generally, it may be said that one-third of the cases will die from blood-poisoning, from hemorrhage, or from the effects of protracted suppuration. Treatment.—Leaving out of consideration cases of such extensive destruc- tion of the overlying soft parts, or crushing of the bones (produced ordina- rily by cannon shot), as compels immediate amputation, and those of non- penetrating injuries in which evidently no operative interference is required, the treatment of shoulder wounds consists in either amputation, excision, or expectancy. Amputation.—Primary amputation is indicated only when, in addition to the joint lesion, there is either extensive shattering of the humerus, through and beyond its upper third, or laceration of the axillaiy vessels and nerves; and even in these cases, the experience of surgeons during the wars of the last twenty years has shown that the other plans of treatment may very often be advantageously substituted. Though early removal of the limb may be expected to be recovered from in three out of four, if not in four out of five of the cases operated upon, yet there is incurred during the period of treat- ment a very decided risk of serious secondary hemorrhage; and the patient, at the best, must go through life with what is, functionally, the severest of mutilations, the loss of a whole upper extremity. An intermediary disarticu- lation should never be practised, unless rendered absolutely necessary by the occurrence of gangrene, of acute osteo-myelitis, or of otherwise uncontrollable secondary hemorrhage ; the mortality of such operations is nearly or quite twice as great as that of primary, and almost double that of secondary, shoul- der amputation. Secondary removal of the limb may be required on account 1 Harlan writes : “ The rule seems proved by the exception, that in cavalry the reverse is the case, as far as I have seen. The right being the sword arm, is, of course, advanced in a charge, as well as in the use of the pistol.”