617 HYPERTROPHIES. Treatment of Acne. — Against all these graver lesions, the ordinary external applications, which may he generally used with such beneficial results in ordinary acne, are of no avail, and resort to very stimulating or caustic preparations is necessary to hasten the reabsorption of the deep-seated infiltration. In these cases, however, much more expeditious results are generally obtained by the early and free use of the sharp-pointed bistoury. This should be inserted deeply into the nodular abscesses and extensive in- filtrated tracts, and numerous openings should be thus established for the evacuation of pus and blood. Cold water fomentations and pressure may be applied to check the excessive hemorrhage, which is sometimes very free, though of advantage to the hypersemic tissues. To the boggy and more superficial lesions, the curette may often be applied with benefit. This ope- ration should be employed daily, as long as the deep-seated suppuration and great engorgement of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues exist, and should be repeated with each new development. In this way the most serious forms of the disease may be, in a comparatively short time, reduced to the ordinary manifestations which yield to simpler means of cure. The exaggerated forms of follicular inflammation, associated with Rosacea and Sycosis, are to be treated in the same way. Hypertrophies. Keratosis Senilis. (Synonyms: Keratosis pigmentosa, Neumann; Ver- ruca senilis, Ilebra and Kaposi.)—Under the term Keratosis, Lebert described the hypertrophies of the epithelial and papillary structures of the integu- ment, and the same generic name has been used, in a more restricted sense, by the American Dermatological Association in its scheme of nomenclature, to signify, under the title Keratosis pilaris, the heapea-up collections of epi- dermal cells around the mouths of the hair follicles, ordinarily called Lichen pilaris, and the affection now to be considered. Neumann describes it under the name Keratosis pigmentosa, but this is not very appropriate, as the increase of pigment, although highly characteristic, is not always present. The term Verruca, too, is not correct, as the papillary hypertrophy, the essential element of wart growth, is, in this affection, mainly wanting. It first shows itself in the form of collections of scales, slightly elevated above the general surface, of somewhat darker color than the surrounding skin, of an irregularly circular or oval outline, resembling in fact, without close inspection, freckles of unusual size and tint. The surface of these spots is sometimes shining and smooth, sometimes dry and covered with minute, lightly adherent scales. They are without sensation, and attract little atten- tion at first, although seated generally, and in greatest abundance, upon the most conspicuous parts of the person, namely, the upper half of the face and the backs of the hands. They may also appear over more extensive areas, the forearms and chest especially. Gradually they become more noticeable by increase in elevation and depth of color, but their development is very slow, and years may pass before they have attained sufficient growth to be- come troublesome. In their most advanced condition, they present elevations an eighth of an inch above the general surface, consisting of dry, horn-like scales, which vary in color from the faintest yellow to the deepest biack, and which may be removed with a little violence by the nail or a blunt-edged instrument, leaving exposed a superficial excoriation, either smooth or ex- hibiting minute conical elevations, which are enlarged sebaceous glands. Examined by the microscope, according to Neumann, the underlying and surrounding tissues present the ordinary appearances of senile atrophy, and