PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. 667 Scabies.—The symptoms produced by the presence of the itch insect (Sar- coptes hominis) upon the skin, are of two kinds: those caused directly by the animal itself, and those produced in consequence of the scratching of the patient. The males and immature insects make only a little pit in the cuti- cle, for purposes of nutrition or metamorphosis, which gives rise to a minute papule or vesicle. It is the impregnated female only which produces the pathognomonic mark of scabies, the burrow for the deposition of her eggs. These burrows appear as linear ulcerations of irregular course, with an uneven surface corresponding to the situation of the eggs within, and terminating in a marked prominence representing the position of the animal beneath the epidermis. In persons of cleanly habits, the burrows are generally distin- guishable by their white color, but in working people they are mostly stained of a darker tint by the absorption of dirt. They vary in length from one or two lines to half an inch, but in exceptional cases they may exceed this measurement. Their direction is slightly zigzag, or curved, seldom perfectly straight. In some cases the whole burrow is lifted prominently above the general surface by the exudation beneath it. If the portion of epidermis in which the burrow is situated be cut out with a pair of curved scissors, and examined with a low magnifying power, it will be seen to pursue an oblique course downwards, and to contain numerous eggs, in various stages of devel- opment, broken egg shells, and an abundance of reddish fecal matter in small globular masses. The name of the disease indicates plainly enough the nature of the sub- jective symptoms which characterize it: “the itch.” The rambling of the insects over the surface, and the burrowing into the deeper sensitive layers of the epidermis, produce an irritation so intolerable as to make a resort to scratching an imperative necessity. This leads directly to the secondary phenomena of the disease, the eruptive appearances of scabies. In the begin- ning of the disease, the itching is very slight, but after a fortnight, when the young emerge from the burrows and begin to colonize fresh portions of the skin, it increases in intensity, and by the third week is no longer relieved by superficial friction. An excoriated papular efflorescence bears witness to the violent action of the nails. Finally, vesicles, pustules, patches of moist eczema, and ecthymatous eruptions follow. These appearances are most marked upon certain regions of the body—the chest, abdomen, thighs, but- tocks, and hands—not the parts where the burrows are in greatest abundance necessarily, but those which are most accessible to the nails. In old cases, in addition to the above lesions, we may find ecthymatous sores of enormous size, with deep pigment stains and swollen glands, presenting the most varied manifestations of cutaneous efflorescence. A peculiar and rare form of the disease, in which the animals live in colonies beneath extensive crusts upon the surface of the skin, instead of burrowing into the epidermis, has been called “ Norway itch.” Such a radical change of habit on the part of the insects is inexplicable. The favorite seats of the burrows are the lateral surfaces of the fingers, the wrists, nates, folds of the axillce, and penis, while in infants they may be distributed over the whole surface. They do not affect the head. The secondary forms of eruption are much more widely spread. The most im- portant points in diagnosis are the seat of the eruption, the great multifor- mity of the efflorescence, the aggravation of the itching while the patient is warm in bed, a history of contagion, or the occurrence of similar symptoms in several members of a family or amongst associates, and the presence of the characteristic burrows. From the latter, it is always easy to remove the old female, or some evidence of her presence, with a needle, or the young insects may be found, perhaps, in a vesicle or papule.