GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE PELVIS. 199 Diagnosis op Pelvic Injuries.—The only doubtful point, as a rule, in regard to diagnosis, is whether or not there has been perforation of the rectum or bladder, or both ; and here, as in abdominal wounds, reliable evi- dence is furnished solely by the escape of the contents of the injured viscus —that is, of fecal matter or of urine. Whether or not the bladder is wounded, depends, in great degree, upon its full or empty condition. Prognosis of Pelvic Injuries.—The prognosis in injuries of this region is largely affected, of course, by the presence or absence of fracture or pene- tration. Flesh wounds, though they may cause death from hemorrhage, are, even when very extensive, not likely to terminate fatally, though they are not infrequently followed by decided functional impairment from muscular injury and cicatricial contraction. When fracture has taken place, the gravity of the injury is much increased; since, aside from the effects of the often- associated visceral lesion, the patient is subject to all the risks arising from prolonged suppuration and septic infection. Of the cases observed during our late war, those of fracture of the ilium were the least fatal—the expanded wing of that bone being at times bored through without serious damage being done—and those of the pubis the most so ; the relative order being: ilium, 24.42 per cent.; coccyx, of which, however, only seventeen eases were reported, 35.3 per cent.; ischium, 42.4 per cent.; sacrum, 43.7 per cent.; pubis, 50 per cent. When the shot passes through the thick gluteal mass, there is often much difficulty in securing free drainage, and, as a consequence, danger to life is proportionately increased. In the cases that recover, healing ordinarily takes place slowly, and extensive necrosis or caries is likely to occur, especially when the bullet has lodged. When the shot has passed through the pelvic cavity, though it may, particularly if small, occasionally do no serious damage, yet usually visceral lesion is produced ; but the mor- tality of such wounds is very much less than that which attends perforations of the abdomen, the probabilities of being able to secure free drainage being- very much greater. Of 183 cases of bladder wound analyzed by Otis, 96, or 52.46 per cent., ended fatally, as did 44 of 103 cases of wound of the rectum, or 42.7 per cent.; in 34 of the rectal injuries, the bladder was also wounded, 14 of the cases proving fatal, or 41.17 per cent. When the bladder has been so wounded as to cause intra-peritoneal extravasation of urine, death is almost certain to occur, under the ordinary plans of treatment, from hyperacute peritonitis; and the same is true when fecal extravasation takes place through a rectal wound high up. If recovery takes place after these visceral lesions, fistulfe, strictures, or functional disturbances often remain. Very troublesome effects are at times produced by the entrance of pieces of clothing, wadding, or bone-fragments into the bladder or rectum, especially the former, or by the late consequences of necrosis. Foreign bodies may, in time, work their way out through the wounds or the natural passages; but osseous spicula, and particularly missiles, projecting into or free in the vesical cavity, may be expected to become in- crusted with phosphates and to form the nuclei of calculi, which, occasion- ally, do not manifest their presence until years after the receipt of the wound. In at least sixteen cases of gunshot injury, stones have been formed upon bone-fragments, and in certainly thirty-three cases, the bladder has been opened and bullets or shell-fragments removed. In genital wounds, death, when it occurs, is usually due to other associated lesions ; of the cases reported during our war, the mortality rate was: for wounds of the testis, 66 out of 586, or 11.26 per cent.; for those of the penis, 41 out of 309, or 13.27 per cent.; and for those of the urethra, 22 out of 105, or 20.95 per cent. Ex- travasation of urine following gunshot wounds of the urethra,like thatfollowing