166 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. suppurative in character—with, ordinarily, rupture of the capsule at a later period, burrowing of pus, and, if death does not previously occur, formation of sinuses. Caries at times is developed, or a con- dition of the head and neck of the bone similar to that observed in chronic rheumatoid arthritis. In the penetrating wounds, there may be perforation or odgment of the ball; limited or extensive shatter- ing,1 the fissures running, it may be, through the trochanters, or far down the shaft; fracture of the acetabulum or other part of the innominate bone, or penetration of the pelvic cavity with or without visceral lesion ; wound of the neighboring great ves- sels or nerves ; or associated through distant injury of, at times, the same extremity. Diagnosis and Prognosis.—Difficult as is often the diagnosis of a wound of any joint, it is especially so in the case of the hip, positive evidence in the escape of synovia, digital exploration, or the severity and character of the after-symptoms, alone sufficing to establish it. The left hip is much more often wounded than the right, no doubt because of its more advanced and exposed position in firing. The mortality of these wounds is excessive. Of 349 which occurred during our war, 297 died’ (85 per cent.); and in all probability, were the cases of recov- ery in which a mistake was made in diagnosis (no penetration having taken place) eliminated, the death-rate would be found to be nearly or quite 95 per cent., the fatal issue being due in most instances to shock* visceral wound, exhaustion, or septic infection. Treatment.—Expectancy, excision, and disarticulation, are all but doubtful remedies for a desperate condition. Hip-joint amjmtation (which should be employed, if at all, only when there has been great destruction of the part, or wound of the main vessels or nerves, or associated fracture lower down), had prior to 1870 resulted fatally in 29 out of 31 cases in which it had been performed for intracapsular wound, that is, in 93.5 per cent.; and it is pro- bable that in the large majority of these cases, the operation only hastened death. Excision, first adopted in shot-wounds of the hip but a little more than half a century ago (by Oppenheim, in 1829), and done but twelve times in all up to 1861—two of these operations, moreover, having been at a late period, for caries—has resulted fatally in 90.6 per cent, of the cases in which it has been performed for joint-wound (106 out of 117). But not one of Reyher’s three cases antiseptically treated proved fatal, and in the future, the adoption of some method to render the operation wound aseptic, may very materially diminish the mortality. Even if it should not, there can be no question but that the removal of the broken bone and drainage of the cavity greatly con- tribute to the comfort of the patient, while he does live ; and if recovery takes place, it is with a quit! useful limb, notwithstanding its being more or less shortened; the result is functionally better under these circumstances than that of similar operations done for disease. All of the 15 individuals suc- cessfully treated were able to use the leg more or less perfectly, and to make a living. As the result of a secondary excision done by Surgeon J. R. Gibson, Fig. 266. Upper end of left femur perfo- rated by conoidal ball. (A. M. M., Spec. 565.) 1 Iii a case operated upon by Surgeon Clements, U. S. Army, the cervix femoris was found broken into about forty pieces.