192 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. without a projecting eperon or spur. A hernia may be found at the opening made for the extraction of the lodged ball. When the diaphragm has been perforated, the protrusion may be into the thoracic cavity, or, as we have already seen, it may show itself through an external chest wound. The bul- let may primarily enter and lodge in the stomach or bowel, to be soon dis- charged per anum (in fourteen hours in one of Lidell’s cases), or may subse- quently, by ulceration and absorption, work its way through the intestinal wall, generally that of the colon, and after a number of days be voided at stool. Encapsulation may take place even in one of the solid viscera. Diagnosis of Abdominal Wounds.—Though the likelihood of penetration having occurred is much greater here than in a wound of the head or chest, the diagnosis cannot certainly be made by the apparent line of direction of the shot, nor even by the resulting shock or tlie functional visceral disturb- ances. As has already been mentioned, there may have been deflection of the bullet, and thus only a parietal injury may have been inflicted. Shock, though of more probable occurrence in lesions of the peritoneal, than in those of any other cavity, may be noticed in high degree when only a comparatively superficial abdominal wound has been received, and is, on the other hand, at times absent when a fatal visceral perforation has taken place. The results of hemorrhage from one of the larger secondary parietal vessels may be mistaken for it. Vomiting of blood, or hemorrhagic discharges from the intestinal canal, may be consequent upon a simple and soon-recovered- from contusion, and a similar injury along the course of the urinary track may be followed by the appearance of blood in the urine; though if the hemorrhage in any of these cases is in large amount, the probability of visce- ral wound is very strong. When the diaphragm has been involved in the injury, and hernia has taken place through it, there wflll generally be little or no contraction of that muscle on the wounded side. If, in a case of contusion, ■ meteorism quickly follows, that symptom very strongly indicates rupture of the bowel. Early and persistent, subnormal temperature renders it very prob- able that there has been grave organic lesion. The only positive evidences of penetration, however, are furnished by the outflow of the contents of the stomach or bowels, of bile, or of urine; by protrusion; or by seeing or feeling the parts within the peritoneum. Prognosis.—The prognosis in the non-penetrating injuries met with in time of war, while of more gravity than in like wounds of the head and chest, is yet favorable,1 though death may result from peritonitis, or, rarely, from hemor- rhage or other wound complication. In civil life, in which, because of the ordi- narily less size and velocity of the missile, peritoneal or bowel injury is very much less likely to be produced, the mortality is much smaller; so much so that, speaking gene- rally, it may be said that, under these cir- cumstances, recovery is almost certain to take place. Penetrating wounds, on the other hand, are most dangerous, 87.72 per cent, of those occurring in our late war having proved fatal (3008 out of 3429 de- termined cases), as did 91.7 percent, (111 out of 121) of the French, and 92.5 per cent. (Ill of 120) of the English cases in the Crimea. When involv- Gunshot perforation of stomach ; a, wound of entrance; e, wound of exit. (A. M. M., Spec. 3749.) 1 Otis reports a mortality-rate of 8.07 per cent.: 253 deaths out of 3134 determined cases.