399 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA IN WOMEN. implicated in the disease, the os uteri is bathed almost constantly during the height of the inflammation in an acrid, irritating pus. It is not to be wondered at that in many cases the irritation thus engendered, instead of limiting itself to the production of congestion, abrasions, superficial ulcera- tions, and other changes in the os, extends into the neck and sometimes into the body of the uterus, producing in each instance its characteristic symp- toms. In the former case, there will he seen upon examination with a speculum, a red, swollen, ulcerated os, from between the lips of which protrudes an albu- minous, mucous or muco-purulent discharge, viscid and coherent so that it is detached with difficulty. It does not differ in any respect from the discharge often found in weak, debilitated females, broken down after child-birth or for other reasons, and known as one of the varieties of leucorrhoea. When this discharge, which is neutral or alkaline, comes in contact with the acid secretions from the inflamed region, it coagulates, becomes milky, and is often found as semi-solid lumps mixed with the more fluid vaginal flow. The same change occurs in it when injections or suppositories of various astrin- gents are used in treatment, and this new phenomenon often gives rise to considerable alarm on the part of the patient unless she has been told of it in advance. When the disease extends to the lining membrane or to the body of the uterus itself, when it advances through the Fallopian tube to the peritoneal cavity or to the ovaries, or when in other cases it extends from the submu- cous connective tissue of the vagina to that which lines the pelvis, it produces complications which are of the most extreme gravity. A description of metritis, ovaritis, peritonitis, or pelvic-cellulitis, when those affections result from gonorrhoea, would not differ in any way from that of the same conditions occurring idiopathically or as sequelse of other dis- eases, and may be found more appropriately in the text-books on gynaecology. Treatment op Gonorrhoea in Women. Treatment of Vulvitis.—The speedy cure of a case of vulvitis depends upon attention to the following points :— The patient should be placed at absolute rest with the pelvis elevated; this is more important in this than in any other variety of female gonorrhoea, gravitation, and the friction produced by movement, operating powerfully and prejudicially if the patient insists upon going around. Perfect cleanli- ness and dryness of the parts are essentials of success in treatment. The labia should be gently washed every two hours with a strong solution of bicarbonate of sodium, which will dissolve and remove all accumulated sebum and mucus, and will at the same time often prove to be, in itself, a very soothing application. In using this, the labia should be gently separated with the thumb and fingers of one hand, while with the other a stream of the alkaline solution is squeezed out of a sponge held a short distance above. After this operation is completed, a soft old linen rag should be held in con- tact with the vulva until all the fluid is absorbed, the parts should be dusted with a fine powder of starch and oxide of zinc, or of opium and lycopodium, a piece of patent lint should be carefully interposed between the labia, and absolute quiet should be preserved until it is time to repeat the dressing. In certain cases the inflammation runs so high—the swelling, pain, and dis- charge are so excessive—that these gentle measures do not suffice. It will •then be necessary to purge, to employ prolonged, general hot-baths—not sitz- baths—to follow them with a lotion of opium and lead-water kept contin-