653 CARCINOMA. Prognosis.—Some of these forms of epithelioma are so little dangerous that they scarcely deserve the title “ malignant.” The superficial variety may continue to progress, or remain stationary, for fifteen or twenty years, and then heal by cicatrization, permanently or temporarily; or may exhibit, for long periods, only a slight activity, at points about the periphery of the scar. On the other hand, its prognosis is much more serious should it develop into the nodular form of the disease. This variety, although capable of pro- tracted quiescence or very slow progress, has always an unfavorable future if left untreated, producing not only deep destruction of tissue, but often loss of life itself. Th & papillomatous or fungoid form is still more dangerous. All forms, if treated in good time, are susceptible of complete cure. Epithe- lioma may recur, after-extirpation, but only locally; and in its advanced stages, its progress may generally be stayed, or its fatal end delayed for a long time. Treatment.—Internal remedies, in epithelioma, are of service in those stages only in which the strength of the patient has begun to fail. There are none which have a specific action upon its course. Extirpation of the can- cerous growth is the only resource. This may be effected by cauterization or by excision, and the choice between these methods must be determined in each case by the extent and position of the disease. One is as effectual as the other, where both can be thoroughly applied, and recurrence is, in such cases, equally common after both. In the superficial forms of the disease, caustics are decidedly the best remedy, because their destructive action penetrates to sufficient depth to ex- terminate the new growth, and produces only a thin scar without subsequent contraction of the surrounding integument—a most important consideration in the vicinity of the eye and nose. When the disease occupies a large area, too, cauterization is the only practicable operation. The special agents to be employed are those which have been recommended in the treatment of lupus, as the same object is to be accomplished in both affections, viz., the destruc- tion of new cell growth. In the flat form, where the infiltration is superfi- cial, this may be effected by the use of the milder caustics, such as pyrogallic acid. This, mixed with lard in the proportion of one or two to eight, and spread thickly upon cotton cloth cut to fit the area to be attacked, is to be applied for three days and nights continuously, fresh plasters being substi- tuted each morning and evening. This process is to be repeated two or three times, if necessary, as soon as the crust which follows the action of the caustic falls off; that is, until healthy cicatrization is established. Should this result fail, we may, as in lupus, resort to the arsenical paste (page 645), spread thickly upon sti'ips of cloth, and applied for three days, the paste being renewed every twenty-four hours. The pain and oedema, especially about the eyes, which come on during the third day in both methods, rapidly subside when the caustics are removed. Under the action of both methods, only the diseased growth is destroyed, the healthy tissues remaining unaffected by the caustic. Single points of growth may be destroyed by thorough boring with the crayon of nitrate of silver, used repeatedly at intervals of a few days. In the nodu- lar form of epithelioma, we may use the stick of nitrate of silver, gouging out with it the soft growth, or we may employ the curette, applying the cautery after scraping. Concentrated nitric acid, too, may be used, boring into the growth with a pointed stick of wood dipped in the acid. If the nodules extend very deeply, we may destroy them with Vienna or chloride of zinc paste. The same applications may be employed for the papillomatous growth, but they should never be used when it is important to save as much tissue as possible, for they respect neither sound nor diseased structures.