GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 158 becoming more so in progress of time ; and in the great majority of the re- mainder, by the aid of proper apparatus, the patient is able to write, feed himself, carry burdens, etc. An immovable shoulder joint seldom results—in less than ten per cent. (9.85) of the cases. In more than one-third of the preserved arms, there is no material shortening, and in the rest, such shorten- ing (which is functionally better than the lengthening that is occasionally met with) tends to become progressively of less importance, the upper end of the humerus being gradually drawn up towards the glenoid cavity and the range of movement increased. The atrophy, which is so commonly seen soon after the wounds have healed, is largely from disuse, and diminishes as the arm is employed. The operation is, as a rule, most readily accomplished by means of the straight incision, no special attention being paid to the location of the bullet wound, the presence of one on the posterior surface of the limb being really of advantage, as facilitating drainage. The ultimate result does not seem to be materially affected by the operative procedure adopted, but does in large measure depend upon the time at which it is resorted to; a primary excision, according to Otis’s tables, has a percentage mortality of 24.1; an intennediary excision one of 45.8, and a secondary excision one of 28.7. Gurlt, in his table, which includes nearly 600 (568) additional cases from the German wars, and in which the number of American late excisions is increased by 160 cases carried forward from the intermediaries, gives the percentage of mortality as 31.83 for the primary, 53.12 for the intermediary, and 39.25 for the secondary operations. Either set of figures proves that, at the shoulder-joint, primary excisions are decidedly the best, and intermediary very much the worst, as far as the preservation of life is concerned, though, as respects “ end-results,” the later operations give decidedly the larger percentage of useful limbs (45 as against 35). When circumstances permit, and it is evident that the ope- ration will be sooner or later necessary, it should be done on the field at once, or, in civil life, as soon as the patient comes under care, if the existing shock is not too great; late excisions should he reserved for cases of necrosis. Fig. 260. Fig. 261. In the after-treatment of these exsections, great care must be taken to pre- vent or quickly relieve any undue constriction, which can so readily be caused in this region by a retentive dressing. Many have advised that the arm should he simply placed on a pillow, or a Stromeyer cushion,1 and that all which there is complete functional integrity of the elbow, wrist, and finger joints, with power of elevation to a right angle with the body. Mr. Holmes’s statement that “ the arm can never, as it seems, be elevated beyond the horizontal line” is certainly, while true in the main, not absolutely correct. 1 This cushion, which the distinguished surgeon whose name it hears considered the “ most valuable appliance he had invented during his life,” “may be described as a right-angled Stromeyer’s cushion. (Mac Cormac.' Application of Stromeyer’s cushion. (Mac Cormac.)