451 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. mon in sexual intercourse. Now and then individuals are met with who appear to be quite refractory to the absorption of the syphilitic virus: such-, persons escape with impunity from an impure connection. Those who suffer from hereditary syphilis are believed to be exempt, and also most if not all persons who have already had the acquired disease. One attack of syphilis usually protects against a second, but this is not invariably the case; Diday1 and others have reported cases of reinfection, where the disease ran its usual and regular course a second time. This goes to prove that syphilis is a curable disease, a fact which has been denied by some authorities. Now and then cases of contagion by the anus are observed, when this has followed as the result of unnatural intercourse. Contagion by the mouth is next in frequency to that by way of the genital organs. It is, indeed, not very uncommon. The source of contagion in this case, however, is usually the mucous patch. The most innocent persons may in this way contract the affection by kissing or fondling children suffering from hereditary syphilis, and children may in the same manner contract the disease from nurses, or may give it to them in the act of nursing.2 A few years ago the following case came under my observation, which illustrates the way in which syphilis may obtain entrance to a family quite unawares. A young girl, returning from a ball, kissed on parting the young man who had accompanied her home. She had been suffering from a cracked lower lip, and was consequently not alarmed when a “fever-blister” appeared in the locality a few weeks later. As this did not heal she sought relief after a time at a dispensary, where burnt alum or borax was applied for several weeks longer, the sore growing larger and harder all the time, and “kernels” appearing under the chin. When I saw her, at this time, the girl had a well-marked chancre of the lower lip, with hazel-nut sized induration, and accompanied by enlarged submaxillary glands. On inquiring as to the health of the family I learned that an infant sister, of whom my patient was very fond, had for some little time past showed “ fever-blisters ” on the commissure of the lips, and on visiting the house I found the child suffering with a small chancre of the commissure, together with a general maculo-papular eruption. I at once quarantined the victims of the disease, but too late, as the mother and two more children subsequently showed generalized syphilitic erup- tions, and the family remained under my care and observation for several years, showing various early and late lesions from time to time. Syphilis is also said, with some indirect evidence of truth, to have been conveyed in the act of ritual circumcision as practised among the Jews, the operator sometimes placing the infant’s penis in his mouth, previously filled with an astringent fluid, after the operation, with the view of stopping the hemorrhage.3 Other modes of immediate contagion are the suction of the breast, or a wound, with a therapeutic purpose, the examinations or handlings of a mid- wife or accoucheur,4 or even the pressure of the body, as in cases where nurses have had chancres, the result of carrying infants upon the arm, who were suf- fering with mucous patches of the anus. Also, one case is recorded where a young man contracted a chancre of the thigh, of which he could give no his- tory, save that he had permitted a ballet girl affected with contagious syphil- itic lesions, and probably in very scanty attire, to sit for some time upon his knee. Syphilis is sometimes conveyed by the immediate contagion of bites. 1 Archives Generates de Medecine, Juillet et Aodt, 1862. 2 See R. W. Taylor, The Dangers of the Transmission of Syphilis between Nursing Children and Nurses, in Infant Asylums and in Private Practice. Am. Jour. Obst., vol. viii. No. 3, Nov. 1875 ; also, Fournier, Nourrices et Nourrissons Syphilitiques. Paris, 1878. 3 See a paper on the question of the Transmission of Syphilitic Contagion in the Rite of Cir- cumcision, by R. W. Taylor, in the New York Medical Journal, Dec. 1873. 4 Bardinet (M6m. de l’Acad. de Med., Avril 14, 1874) gives the case of a midwife affected with a syphilitic lesion of the finger, through whom more than one hundred persons had been infected.