WOUNDS. the excavated surface being filled in with a light dressing, as if it were a surface wound; in another, where there is a tendency for the surface edges to fall together and unite, and where this union would be injurious by interfer- ing with the free evacuation of such discharges as are to be looked for from the wound, or with the escape of sloughs of destroyed tissue, the dressing may have to be inserted between the lips of the wound, or even down to its bottom; for it is essential, in these cases, that the wound should not be closed, and that a free vent for all fluids should he maintained; while in a third case, the provision for free drainage may, from the position of the wound, he sn imperfect, that a special opening (counter-opening) may be called for, at the piost dependent situation of the injured parts, or at some other position which the ingenuity of the surgeon may suggest. Under all circumstances, wounds such as these, which are not expected to heal by quick union, should be so dressed as to allow of the free egress of all secretions without disturbing the parts. The primary dressing which I am in the habit of employing for fresh wounds is, as already mentioned, lint or absorbent cotton, saturated with a mixture of terebene one part and olive-oil three parts, the saturated dressing being covered with another layer of dry lint or cotton. Where a wound has to be lightly filled with some dressing, I use the absorbent cotton saturated with the same terebene and oil, and a light pad of the absorbent cotton ap- plied over the whole and held in position by a retentive bandage; and even when a drainage tube or drain orifice exists, the same light dressing is appli- cable, since it absorbs such fluids as may escape externally, and in no measure tends to restrain their How. In some cases, a soft sponge which has been wrung out of iodine or carbolic lotion, is a good substitute for the wad of absorbent cotton. In eases of more severe wounds, where a free flow of fluid is to be expected* and where the danger of its retention would be great, the opening of the drainage tube or discharging orifice should be left free. In the dressing of all stumps, and most deep incised or lacerated wounds, this practice should be followed, since it enables the surgeon to bring the parts more accurately together than would otherwise be advisable, and to keep them quiet, and in apposition, by means of pressure applied over the whole of the wound, except the drain orifice. This method has likewise the great collateral advantage of allowing the surgeon to leave the wound undisturbed for some days, probably for a week, and to postpone his first dressing till a period when nature’s reparative process will have had time to shut off the wounded part from the deeper tissues, and to do much in the direction of its repair. There should always be a reason for dressing a wound: dressing as a routine practice is not to be commended; it should always be deferred till it is required. Wounds must be kept clean under all circumstances, and free from every septic risk—contused and lacerated wounds particularly; but a wound must be kept quiet, if repair is to go on steadily, and this quiet is as necessary for the lacerated as it is for the cleaner kinds of wound. A form of dressing such as has been described, has advantages over many others, for it renders early and frequent dressings of the wound unnecessary. Punctured Wounds. Punctured wounds, when made with sharp-cutting instruments, are deep incised wounds, and when with blunt or wedge-shaped tools, deep contused wounds. They differ from other incised or contused wounds in their depth* and in the uncertainty which, as a consequence, follows, with respect to the tissues that are wounded ; but above all in the difficulties which are always