569 GENERAL TREATMENT OE SYPHILIS. corpuscles. Iron is, therefore, called for in many cases, either alone or com- bined with the specific remedies. In the majority of cases, the tincture of the chloride is the most available form of ferruginous medication, although I frequently use the dried sulphate of iron, or the tartrate, in the form of wine of iron; the tincture may be occasionally used alone, or more frequently, as with the last two preparations, combined with the specific remedies. The bitters, such as quinine and gentian, are frequently called for, and occasionally the mineral acids may be resorted to in appropriate cases. Specific Treatment.—The chief remedies in syphilis are the various pre- parations of mercury and iodine. Although in the discussion of the various manifestations of the affection in the preceding pages, some mention of peculiarly appropriate forms of treatment has been made, it remains in this section to set forth the general principles of the specific treatment of syphi- lis, and to indicate those preparations and applications which experience has shown to be generally useful in dealing with the various lesions as they may arise. Mercurial preparations are most generally useful in the earlier stages of syphilis, while the iodides come into play in the later forms. As no hard and fast line can be drawn between the “early” and “late” lesions, commonly so called, so no invariable rules can be laid down for the administration of one class of remedies or another; each case must be treated on its merits, and one or the other remedy, or both together, must be given as the occasion de- mands.1 Mercurials.—Mercury came into use in the early history of syphilis, and though violently assailed from that time to this, has held its own as an in- valuable remedy. Even its abuse in a past generation, when salivation was considered a condition to be aimed at in the treatment of all venereal disease, has never caused it to lose its hold upon the esteem of the profession. As regards the period at which the administration of mercury should begin, it is now agreed by most syphilographers that nothing is gained by its too early administration. Given on or shortly after the appearance of the initial lesion, its effect is to delay and render irregular the advent of the generalized lesions, without preventing their eventual appearance. An element of con- fusion is thus inti’oduced into the orderly evolution of the various manifesta- tions, and occasionally the delay in their appearance gives rise to false hopes of a permanent cure, often rudely dispelled by an unexpected outbreak, or perhaps by the transmission of the disease to an innocent person. It will not do, however, to leave the patient entirely without treatment, and it is better, therefore, when the diagnosis of chancre is made, or even when the existence of the initial lesion of syphilis is suspected, to begin the administration of internal remedies, perhaps iron and quinine, warning the patient at the same time of the probable supervention of general manifesta- tions, but waiting until these actually appear before instituting mercurial treatment. The choice of the form in which mercury shall be administered is often dependent upon nothing more than personal preference. It must be remem- bered, however, that the same preparation is not suitable in every case, nor in the same case at different periods, and a trial must often be made of sev- eral different preparations before the one best adapted to the case can be selected. When any given preparation seems to lose its effect, it is generally 1 See Hutchinson, When and how to use Mercury in Syphilis. Am. Journ. Syph. and Derm., toI. v., 1874, p. 112.