610 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Opium :—Erythematous, finely papular, at times urticarial eruption. Quinine :—Erythematous and papular, with desquamation ; at times urti- carial ; rarely hemorrhagic. Salicylic Acid :—Erythematous, urticarial; occasionally vesicular and pustular. Turpentine :—Erythematous, papular eruption. Eruptions following Operations and Injuries. Attention has of late years been occasionally called to the not infrequent occurrence of rashes and other forms of cutaneous disturbance after surgical operations. This subject of traumatic eruptions has recently received a care- ful study from Mr. Edward C. Stirling, of London. From his observations, which are published in St. George’s Hospital Reports, Yol. X., it appears that there are two classes of such manifestations: one, true scarlatina; the other, comprising erythema, urticaria, and herpes. Of the former he cites sixty- three instances following operations of every degree of severity. The rash appeared within three days after the operation in 78 per cent, of the cases, and in every instance within a 'week. Of the direct connection between the development of scarlatina and the traumatic state there can be little doubt, but it can only be explained on the supposition of some peculiarly favorable receptivity to the poison induced by the operation. The course of the dis- ease differs only in unimportant respects from that of ordinary scarlet fever. The other forms of eruption which have been observed after operations and injuries are: (1) An erythema, or roseola, of more or less general distribution, resembling very closely the rash of scarlet fever, but lacking all other essen- tial characteristics of that disease, and subsiding in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours ; in some cases the erythema has been of a papular type; (2) Urticarial and herpetic forms of efflorescence, which are not as frequent as the erythematous. They have been observed even after simple catheterization. * The occurrence of such traumatic eruptions has been accounted for on the hypothesis of absorption of the inflammatory products of the wound, or by so-called reflex irritation. They are not to be confounded with the cutaneous manifestations of septicaemia. Eczema. Eczema is an inflammatory affection of the skin, acute or chronic in course, characterized by a great variety of surface lesions, and accompanied by itch- ing. It presents a number of distinct clinical varieties according to the stage which may be under observation, and -which may be recognized under the appropriate titles: Eczema erythematosum. Eczema papulosum, Eczema vesicu- losum, Eczema madidans, Eczema pustulosum, and Eczema squamosum. Eczema Erythematosum.—In this, the mildest grade of the disease, as far as the anatomical changes in the cutaneous tissues are concerned, we have a simple reddening of the skin, either in the form of minute points and larger maculae, or distributed over larger surfaces, due to a hyperaemic state of the capillaries which supply the parts affected. This condition, accompanied by heat and itching, may exist as a simple erythema for a few days, and may fade away, leaving only a slight desquamation behind. If it persist longer, however, a thickening of the reddened skin, which may be recognized by touch, will follow, due to an exudation of cells and serum from the enlarged