CONTUSIONS. 8 air be admitted, we are told, decomposition of tlie blood will take place, and putrefactive suppuration will be set up. To this rule, however, there will be found exceptions. I have, with a common hypodermic syringe, tapped the soft bag of blood which follows contusions of the face, and have thus drawn off by aspiration the greater portion of the effused fluid without the slightest bad consequences. On the contrary, the cures have been more rapid, and the time during which the sufferer has been confined to his room because of a black eye, materially lessened. A common practice among pugilists is to make an opening in the bruised and swollen eyelid and gently press out the blood, and afterwards to apply a cold compress. When it is important to get rid of the eccliymosis quickly, there is no reason why the needle should not be inserted at several points, if entire evacuation cannot be effected by one insertion. When the extravasated blood is making injurious pressure on important parts, or giving rise to great pain, it should be evacuated in some way. Con- tusion of the ends of the fingers or toes sometimes produces extravasation of blood under the nails. The pressure upon the delicate and sensitive structures in this locality occasionally gives rise to great pain, which only the evacua- tion of the blood can relieve. If the toe or finger be immersed in hot water for half an hour or longer, the nail will be so softened that an opening can easily be made through it, and some of the blood permitted to escape. The application of leeches to ecchymoses, so frequently resorted to with the view of drawing out the extravasated blood, should never be attempted. These fastidious little creatures will never drink from the “ stagnant pool when they can get at a running stream.” They not only do no good as far as getting rid of the “ bruised blood” is concerned, but their bites produce irritation, and increase the probability of suppuration. They should be employed only when it is necessary to subdue high inflammatory reaction, which often follows in- juries of this character, and then they should be applied at some distance from the bruised spot. When the contused part becomes hot, red, painful, and throbbing, and suppuration threatens or is actually present, a free, dependent incision should be made, and the blood and serum thoroughly evacuated. The cavity left should be washed out with warm water containing hydrate of chloral or car- bolic acid; and, after the bleeding has ceased, a light linseed-meal poultice should be applied. Afterwards, every means should be used to encourage granulation and to promote the closure of the wound. A compress and ban- dage to keep the walls of the cavity in contact, will hasten the reunion of the parts. If at any time during the course of a contusion, a slough forms, its separation should be encouraged by means of a poultice, and the part, as well as the room, bed, and patient’s clothes, deodorized and disinfected by some of the numerous agents employed for this purpose. The best are probably the hydrate of chloral, carbolic acid, the permanganate of potassium, and chlori- nated soda. When the contusion is complicated by the rupture of a large artery and the formation of a,diffused aneurism, a free incision should be made, and both ends of the vessel searched for and tied. When the soft parts are mashed or “ pulpefied,” the bones comminuted, the large blood- vessels or nerves ruptured, or the joints opened—the circulation being feeble and the temperature lowered—amputation to prevent gangrene will be ne- cessary. Constitutional Treatment.—In the earlier stages of a contusion, when absorption of the extravasated blood is being sought for, a low diet should be enjoined, and antiphlogistic treatment generally should be practised. Absorp- tion of the effusion may sometimes be hastened by free purging. When sup-