301 SENILE GANGRENE. malady. Owing to the overcrowded state of the hospitals, no classification of the patients could be made. But this gave him an opportunity of observing that individuals suffering from contagious diseases, such as syphilis, were more easily affected with the gangrene, and that it rapidly produced in them dreadful ravages. “ No general symp- toms,” he says, “ usually preceded the alteration of character in the wounds.” He also proved the contagious character of the disease by inoculating various wounds with the poisonous matter, and likewise by inserting it subcutaneously in healthy parts. He found, too, that amputations might be performed with safety if the patient was separated from those that were diseased with gangrene. After many experiments, he came to the conclusion that the best application was the solution of caustic potassa. On the first day he used the stick, endeavoring to penetrate the cavities of the wound. The next day the wound was dressed with a solution of one scruple to an ounce of water, and every day this caustic solution was rendered more weak until it was discontinued on the fifth day. By this plan, the worst cases were successfully treated. It need hardly be said that to the direct therapeutical measures, an abundant supply of fresh air should be added. When this has been joined to complete isolation and cleanliness, a good constitution will often surmount the disease without the aid of . therapeutics. Senile Gangrene. Senile gangrene (Plate IV., Fig. 1) lias a name appropriate to its cause. Though not exclusively pertaining to senility, it occurs as an accident of conditions that supervene rarely but in old age. It clearly comes under the form of gangrene recognized as being due to arrest of circulation. Unlike the ligature, the cause operates slowly, but very surely. The incipiency of senile gangrene is so mild and apparently trifling to the uneducated eye, that unless painful, as it usually is, the attention of the surgeon is not at first called to it. A small dark spot, usually coming on the first or second toe, is soon followed by a vesicle containing dark serum. This, accompanied with loss of sensation at the affected point, and a decided lowering of the temperature of the foot, with a languid circulation, mark the commencement of this fatal dis- ease. The patient is dying at the extremity. But although there is loss of sensibility at the exact point mentioned, even the early stage is generally marked by a moderate amount, and sometimes a great deal, of pain, both in the foot and limb. This also is usually aggravated by allowing the part to take the depending position. The progress of the disease is some- times rapid, but ordinarily slow. The arrest of the circulation, from being partial, may suddenly become perfect, in consequence of a thrombus, and then the gangrene will reach the knee in a few days, terminating the life as moist gangrene. But this is only a sequence, and not the typical condition, which is that of slow extent, so much so as to frequently give the result of dry gangrene. Causes and Course of Senile Gangrene.—That this disease is the sequence of rigidity of the arteries, admits of no question. The diminished supply of blood which arteries with osseous deposits in them must afford by the destruction or diminution of their elasticity, gives a satisfactory expla- nation of the primary cause of senile gangrene. There are, however, deter- mining causes which, in consequence of some slight injury, set in motion the process which would probably have been warded off by proper care to a later period. Thus it has been observed that the development of gangrene is more likely to occur during the latter part of winter than at other periods of the year. Cases occur in which the disease becomes arrested, perhaps with the loss of the toes or a portion of the foot; and, warm weather coming on, cicatrization becomes perfect, the patient supposing that complete re-