SYPHILIS. 514 not only because less superficial and more thorough than the nitrate of silver, but because it does not leave a black stain as the silver application does. The latter is a matter of some moment to patients who may have a visible lesion, as a mucous patch of the commissure of the lips. Nitrate of mercury has one fault, however—it gives rise to pain and swelling; but these can be avoided by due caution in its application. Caustics should not be applied to the bucco-pharyngeal mucous membrane without due precautions. The affected surface should first be dried, as otherwise the caustic will flow in all directions. Solutions should never be applied by means of a glass rod. A case of death has been reported, occurring from spasm of the larynx induced by a drop of nitrate-of-silver solution let fall during cauterization of the pharynx. The solid stick is less dangerous. Though not to be recommended for use in the pharynx, yet if em- ployed, only a short piece should be used, as of course the quantity swallowed in case of accident would be less. For caustic solutions, a bit of soft pine wood, or a carefully moistened camel’s hair pencil, is the best applicator. The deeper lesions, when not phagedenic, are best treated by cleanliness and dependence upon internal treatment, iodide of potassium having peculiar efficacy in these cases. When a disposition to phagedenic action shows itself, caustics may be employed in addition, but the internal treatment must also be strongly pushed. Tongue.—The tongue is the seat of various syphilitic lesions which in this locality present certain peculiarities worthy of notice. In the earlier stages of the disease, an erythematous rash is sometimes though rarely encountered, showing itself in the form of a group of roundish red patches surrounded by a border of desquamating epithelium. A form of syphilitic papule is another rare lesion, which, however, is occasionally met with upon the tongue. It assumes the appearance of a slight elevation, covered with dull epithelium which gives it a whitish color. The mucous patch is a very common syphilitic lesion of the tongue. In one variety it usually occupies the median portion of the dorsal surface, in the form of an erosion, a smooth, red, rounded patch de- prived of its papillae, and of a polished aspect. In a more advanced stage of evolution this erosive patch is papular and mammillated, owing to hyper- trophy of the papillary layer of the derm. Its color is still bright red, and its surface smooth and polished; it may grow to the size of a cherry or almond pit, disfiguring the surface of the tongue. Syphilitic patches on the tongue may be distinguished from somewhat similar lesions, as follows:— Chancre Solitary lesion; induration; edges of a frankly inflammatory red color; deep ulceration, the bottom often covered with false membrane, and, at a later period, with exuberant granulations ; submaxillary adenitis. Aphthae Slight ulcers, with irregular borders, without induration, often covered with denuded epithelium on which a yellowish lactescent fluid can be observed ; lesion rarely isolated; usually painful when ulcerated. Ulcero-membranous Stomatitis.—A rare affection, particularly upon the tongue ; co- incidence of ulceration on the gums, the internal surface of the cheeks, and the lips; fungous and pultaceous condition of the base of the ulcer, swelling of adjacent parts; frequent localization on one side of the mouth ; frequent and considerable develop- ment of painful ganglia corresponding to the lesion. Another variety of lesion, not infrequently found upon the tongue, is that known by the barbarous name of “buccal psoriasis.”1 It is more apt to be found on the side of the tongue. In its earlier stages, this variety of the 1 This name is given to non-syphilitic lesions of the tongue as well. It is confusing, and should be abandoned.