SYPHILIS OP THE KIDNEY AND LIVER. 525 Syphilis of the Kidney. The earlier disturbances of the urinary function have been already men- tioned (page 482). The affections of the kidney about to be described are of later date, and of more serious significance. Syphilis of the kidneys is of two varieties, pathologically dissimilar, but clinically not to be differentiated. One is characterized by gummatous deposits; the other is a diffuse nephritis, not unlike the diffuse syphilitic sclerosis of the lungs and testicles. In both forms of syphilitic kidney-trouble, the affection begins in an in- sidious manner. After a time the effect of the renal disease comes to show itself in the system at large ; the patient becomes pale and weak, suffers from general malaise, with gastric disturbance, nausea and vomiting, headache, lumbar pain—in a word, the usual symptoms of beginning renal disease. At a later period, oedema about the ankles, puffiness of the face, and extravasations into the serous cavities follow, as do also epistaxis and haemoptysis. At this stage the polyuria and albuminuria become somewhat lessened; the patient is like the subjects of ordinary Bright’s disease, and, unless the morbid process can be arrested, goes on through anasarca, ascites, “indolent” pleurisy, lesions of the eye and brain, and finally complete cachexia, to death. It will be observed that the symptoms just mentioned are manifested by syphilitic kidney affections in common with non-syphilitic renal troubles, but as regards prognosis the difference is very marked. Taken in time, and appropriately treated by means of mercury and iodide of potassium, together or alone, the morbid process is arrested, amelioration can be hoped for in many cases, and it is not rare even to obtain a complete cure.1 Of course, it is understood that timely measures are carried out; the treatment should be prompt, thorough, and persistent, from the moment when the nature of the affection is understood. Syphilis of the Liver. Early Hepatic Syphilis.—The earliest manifestations of syphilis in the liver have already been described (page 481), but those which occur at a later period in the history of the disease are of more importance and deserve a fuller discussion. In what may be called the middle stage of the early evo- lution of syphilis, the liver is now and then attacked in the same manner as in the earlier period already described, but to a rather more marked degree. This form is met with from two and a half to three months after the first out- break of generalized symptoms, and is accompanied by hypertrophy of the liver, pain, and sometimes icterus, together with certain concomitant symptoms to be mentioned. The liver begins to enlarge at an early period, and continues to increase in volume until treatment is instituted. It remains stationary for a time under treatment, and then begins slowly to decrease in size, but with interruptions caused by recurrent attacks of congestion, alter- nations of amelioration and aggravation occurring without ostensible cause. The volume of the liver is variable, but in some cases the organ may rise as much as two fingers’ breadth above the floating ribs in the line of the nipple, and may form a more or less prominent tumor in the line of the sternum. Pain is a constant symptom. Weight in the hypochondrium, difficulty of locomotion which aggravates the pain, and increased distress with lancinat- 1 See Fournier (op. cit.), for a striking case illustrating the curability of this affection.