THE ASEPTIC METHOD. 73 of mackintosh cloth, what is known as “ hat lining.” The object of this is to make the discharge traverse the whole of the dressing, and not pass directly through, as would be the case were the mackintosh absent. If there were no mackintosh, the discharge, always passing through one part, would wash out all the antiseptic in a very short time, and putrefaction would rapidly occur. To avoid this risk a large quantity of gauze would be necessary, and this would increase the expense of the treatment very much, whereas, by the use of the mackintosh, the discharge is made to pass from the centre to the edge of the dressing, that is, through a mass of gauze equal in thickness to the distance from the centre to the edge of the dressing. The same piece of mack- intosh may be used several times, till in tact it wears out. After the dressing has been removed, it is taken out, sponged with carbolic lotion, and introduced into the new dressing. A patient is provided with two pieces at the com- mencement of the case, and these are generally sufficient, one being made up in a fresh dressing while the other is being used. Thus, though an expensive material, yet when divided over a number of dressings, its expense becomes very little. Expense is also saved by preserving the large pieces of gauze used in the dressings. They may be washed and recharged with the carbolic acid mixture. These dressings should he large,.and should overlap the wound for a considerable distance in every direction. The dressing is fastened on by a bandage. This may be made of carbolic gauze, which is light, cheap, and useful in many ways. But a cheaper band- age and one sufficiently convenient, indeed more convenient than the carbolic gauze bandage in many cases, may be made of thin muslin. As the dressing may not remain closely applied to the skin during all the movements of the patient, more especially in the neck, chest, or groin, there is a certain risk that air unacted on by the antiseptic may pass under the dressing and reach the wound, carrying active septic dust along with it. This danger is obviated by applying an elastic bandage along the edge of the dressing (Fig. 219). This Fig. 219. may he put sufficiently on the stretch to keep the edge of the dressing accu- rately in contact with the skin, without pressing injuriously, or interfering with the circulation in the part. Pins are put in along the edge of the dress- ing, fastening the dressing and the bandages together at the important points. Safety pins are the best for this purpose, as common pins are apt to get buried and lost in the gauze. Dressing in a case of abscess of the hip-joint, showing the extent of the dressing and the arrangement of the elastic bandage around its edges.