678 DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. matory products lie soon degenerate into pus. Sometimes the purulent formation occurs in isolated masses along the course of the vein, but gene- rally it is continuous up and down the inflamed tract. If nature has closed the broken-down veins, as is usually the case, little or none of the products of disintegration enter the circulation, and the constitutional symptoms, though somewhat graver than in other forms of cellulitis, will have no special significance, consisting merely of an increase in the temperature of the body of from one to three or four degrees, a pulse varying from ninety to one hundred and ten or one hundred and fifteen, loss of appetite, severe headache and lumbar pain, and a thickly furred tongue. If, however, the suppuration is extensive, and the venous channels permeable, decomposing materials may enter the system; then symptoms will be developed akin to those which arise in pyaemia—indeed, they are in many cases nothing more nor less than pyaemic symptoms—and the disease will be likely to terminate fatally. Rigors in all such cases are well marked. The temperature rises rapidly to 105° F. or 107° F. The pulse becomes weaker, and more rapid and com- pressible, and the face assumes an anxious expression; the tongue is dry and coated with a brown fur, and in the worst cases sordes form on the teeth early in the disease. In such cases we may expect a fatal termination. Treatment.—In peri-venous cellulitis, even more than in the other forms of cellular inflammation, early incisions and the thorough cleansing of the tissues with carbolized water are of the greatest value in cutting short the disease, and in limiting the suppurative process. It is not advisable to wait until pus forms before cutting into the inflamed tissue on one side or other of the veins. The persistent use of carbolized water and charcoal poultices will do away with all danger of blood-poisoning from purulent formations. Some recommend the application of leeches over the inflamed vein, and cathartic medicines at the outset of the disease. In conjunction with hot applications they are often beneficial, and they may be tried when the patient dreads the knife. Tincture of iodine is also of some service ; it may be applied with a camel’s-hair pencil morning and evening over the inflamed surface. Ointments of mercury, belladonna, and opium are also employed. Quinine and stimulants should not be omitted in the treatment. The stimulants may be best administered with milk in the form of “ milk- puneli,” or with eggs beaten up as “ eggnog.” In all cases, nutritive ma- terials should be administered with the stimulants, and the cpiantity adminis- tered should be regulated by the condition of the patient’s stomach. If the stomach will not' bear the combination of milk and stimulants, a goblet should be partly filled with small pieces of ice and a tablespoonful of brandy, a little Seltzer water added to this will make a very acceptable drink, which, in moderate quantities, is usually tolerated by an irritable stomach. The sul- phide of calcium has been recommended to diminish the amount of suppu- ration. It is apt to disorder the stomach. Carbonate of ammonium in ten-grain doses is said to prevent the formation of coagula in the inflamed veins. I have given it as a diffusible stimulant in cases where great depres- sion existed, and have obtained good results; but its reputed value in pre- venting the formation of clots is open to question. Peri-Arthritic Cellulitis is an inflammation of the cellular tissue around the joints. The disease is of frequent occurrence in scrofulous chil- dren, though it is not uncommon in delicate adults. The most frequent causes are injuries, exposure to cold, and extension of inflammation from a diseased bone or joint. The pathological changes are similar to those already described under the head of diffused cellulitis.