703 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF BURSAE. indubitable secondary and tertiary manifestations. The primary sore bus always been acquired some, even many, years before. (2) The site and form of the tumor usually correspond to those of a normal bursa, or of one normal to the occupation or peculiarity of the individual. The volume of the tumor is never great, not exceeding that of a hen’s egg. The swelling most commonly arises spontaneously, or at most has for its exciting cause a slight pressure or injury. It is indolent and almost non- sensitive. In consistence it is firm, elastic, and equally removed from the soft fluctuation of a hygroma and from the hardness of a periostitis, exostosis, or chondroma. The tumor adheres to the skin and subjacent bone. The in- tegument may be unchanged, but is more usually of a red, brown, or viola- ceous color, and frequently ulcerated. When this latter condition exists, the ulcer lias sharp-cut, precipitous sides, the base is grayish, and the discharge sanious; in fact, it resembles in all respects an ulcerated gumma. At times actual fungosities arise, and protrude through the ulcerated opening. The bone is not denuded or thickened, although at first sight it may so appear. The slow growth and chronic duration of the disease are also significant. (3) Any ordinary method of treatment applied to gummatous cases, how- ever successful it may have proved in simple ones, meets only with failure. In marked contrast to this is the rapid, sure, and easy cure effected by mer- curial inunctions or other applications, conjoined with iodide of potassium given internally. These prove efficient even in the absence of rest, so import- ant an element in the successful treatment of simple enlargements of the bursie.1 With such an aggregate of symptoms, I hardly think a careful observer could confound a syphilitic with a simple inflammation of a bursa. However, to obviate all chance of mistake, it may be repeated that a non-syphilitically inflamed bursa, although identical as to site, form, and bulk, is but rarely adhe- rent to the surrounding parts, and never to the bone. The onset of the disease is rapid, the skin is bright red, the heat is more marked, the sensibility is often intense, fluctuation is frequently manifest, and specific treatment is of no avail. A gumma might possibly be mistaken for a cold abscess, which it resembles in its slow course, slight local symptoms, discoloration of the skin, and, when ulceration has taken place, occasional protrusion of fungosities. The antece- dent history and conditions, in the case of cold abscess, are those of rheumatism or scrofula, and the onset often coincides with convalescence from certain maladies. The borders of the ulcer are more ragged than clean and perpen- dicularly cut. Besides, cod-liver oil, tonics, etc., serve a good purpose, while anti-syphilitic treatment proves of no avail. Syphilitic periostitis and osteitis are amenable to antisyphilitic remedies, but they are accompanied by acute pain, have not the elastic resistance of a gumma, indeed quite the reverse, and correspond neither in seat nor in form to an enlarged bursa. Finally, should ulceration occur, the probe will readily detect denuded bone. Bloody effusions into the bursie might be confounded with gummata, but the former very often exhibit even at the outset a peri- pheral ecchymosis, and a certain crepitation on palpation due to the mutual friction of the blood-clots. The fungous form of an ulcerating gumma, when affecting a bursa of the foot, probably forms one of the varieties of perforating ulcer.2 Treatment.—This should be of the “ mixed” kind internally, with local mer- curial inunction. If sloughing occurs, local stimulants, black or yellow wash, calomel ointment, etc., should be used. 1 For much valuable information, as well as for the arguments which demonstrate such affec- tions to be really gummatous, see L. Moreau, Des Affections Syphilitiques Tertiaires des Bourses S6reuses. Paris, 1873. 2 L. Moreau, op. cit., p. 24.