GONORRHOEA. 384 be poulticed and opened as in any case of glandular suppuration. It is never a serious affection. Cowperitis requires rest, elevation of the buttocks, leeches to the perineum, hot sitz-baths, poultices, and prompt evacuation if suppuration occur. Prostatitis, Prostato-cystitis, and Cystitis must all be treated in very much the same manner. They are among the most annoying of all the com- plications of gonorrhoea, and demand prompt and careful attention. Upon the first development of the early symptoms-—frequent urination, vesical tenesmus, etc.—the patient should be placed at absolute rest in the recumbent position, with the hips elevated upon a hair pillow ; his diet for a few days should be limited to skimmed milk, of which he may take any desired quan- tity ; an alkaline diuretic mixture (see p. 364) should be freely administered three-ounce enemata of hot water, or of hot starch-water containing a few drops of laudanum, should be given every two or three hours ; six or eight ounces of blood may, with advantage, be taken by leeches from the perineum,, which should afterward be covered with hot fomentations; and finally opium, combined with belladonna or hyoscyamus in suppositories, should be used at bedtime, and at intervals during the night if the calls to urinate are frequent. I have not found that, in these cases, a moderate degree of constipation is- particularly hurtful, and any rectal impaction of feces is prevented by the daily enemata already recommended, so that the objection commonly urged against suppositories, that by reason of their constipating effect they do harm, need not prevent their free employment. On the other hand, by securing rest, enabling the patient to maintain the recumbent position for a longer time continuously, and diminishing the spasm of the vesical and prostatic muscles, they contribute largely to the cure of the inflammation. Bromide of lithium, in five-grain doses every three hours, or citrate of caffein, in three- grain doses, may be added to the diuretic mixture, if the urine remain scanty and high-colored.1 All urethral injections should be immediately stopped, and the patient should be instructed to resist as long as possible the desire to urinate, and also the inclination to strain and bear down at the end of the act. By this method of treatment, which, although vigorous, is not unnecessarily so, it is possible to abort many cases of commencing prostatitis, and sometimes even to have the patient upon his feet again in two or three days. If, however, the symp- toms do not subside entirely in that time, the continuance of the recumbent position and the other details of treatment must be urgently insisted upon, as the least imprudence is almost sure to bring on a relapse. In certain sub- acute cases, the leeches and poultices may be omitted, or even occasionally the enemata and suppositories, but rest, elevation of the pelvis, restricted diet, and an alkaline diuretic, are always essentials of treatment. Retention of Urine.—If retention of urine should occur as an additional complication, the surgeon should not hastily introduce an instrument, as by so doing, no matter how carefully, he would probably intensify all the in- flammatory symptoms. I have rarely seen a case uncomplicated with old stricture in which the bladder could not be emptied—or, rather, induced to empty itself—by the following plan of treatment: Quiet the mental anxiety and distress, which are invariably present, by assuring the patient that he is in no danger, and will shortly be relieved. Insert beneath the skin of the 1 Dr. Mracek (Allg. Wiener med. Wochensclir., No. 45, 1880) recommends chlorate of potas- sium, in divided doses of about four scruples daily, in cases of gonorrhoeal cystitis.