INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA?. 698 applied on either side of the incision. If the wound should not gape enough to insure proper drainage, two short drainage tubes are to be inserted perpendicularly into the sac. The space between the pads should be filled with a thick compress of gauze, the whole joint then enveloped in a number of layers of the same, and the limb bandaged to a posterior splint. In from three to four days, adhesion of the sac-walls takes place. As a rule, only three or four dressings are necessary, cicatrization being completed in from two to three weeks. There was slight suppuration in one ordy of Volkmann’s seven cases. Volkmann has tried this mode of treatment even in acute phlegmonous bursitis with extensive suppuration around the joint, and reports that such cases do quite as well as simple ones. He has also by this plan successfully cured acutely suppurating bursts. I am convinced that such bursts should never be packed with lint. Any of the plans mentioned are preferable to this rude procedure, even if the bursa be not inflamed. Hygroma. Many surgeons indiscriminately apply this term not only to mere hyper- secretion due to irritation, but also to cases of very mild subacute or chronic bursitis, with but little thickening of the sac. It should, however, be re- stricted to cases of hyper-secretion into bursae, where, by pressure and fric- tion, congestion is induced which relieves itself by effusion, and, the irrita- tion recurring, a degree of congestion is maintained which prevents absorp- tion of the fluid. The treatment by simple rest and removal of the cause will often suffice, but if it does not, blisters followed by pressure, with a precedent aspiration where the fluid is present in large quantity, should be tried. Contusions of Bursae. The subcutaneous bursae, when contused, frequently become filled with blood, which is usually painlessly effused. Rest, cold evaporating lotions, etc., usually promptly determine the absorption of the blood. It may, however, persist, when the tumor slowly increases, and, if neglected, may in the course of years attain to a huge size. Either with or without effusion of blood, con- tusions commonly give rise to acute or subacute bursitis. Again, a slight blow may be the origin of a chronic bursitis. Contusions of the deep-seated bursae are of graver import, owing to the injury of the superjacent tissues, upon which, of necessity, much of the force must be expended, and also to the confinement of the products of inflammation by the overlying tissues, so that, when the injured sac is in relation with a joint, serious sequelae are not uncommon. The treatment must be conducted on general principles, and has been sufficiently indicated when speaking of acute bursitis. Wounds of Bursae. Incised and Punctured Wounds of Burs^;.—These usually terminate in suppuration with obliteration of the bursal cavity. Under favorable circum- stances, it is possible that they may heal immediately, as similar injuries of joints occasionally do. Wounds of the superficial bursae usually are of but little consequence. Rest, efficient drainage, an antiseptic dressing when pos- sible, or, indeed, any dressing suitable to a similar wound which opens the