OTHER FORMS OF INJURY ANALOGOUS TO DISSECTION-WOUNDS. 89 are sometimes demanded by the severity of the pain, and must be given. Opiates need not be withheld unless there is a strong tendency to cerebral congestion; they may be combined with the quinine, and the iron given separately. The bromides and chloral-hydrate, in mild cases, answer a good purpose; but the stomach may not always bear them well. By way of prophylaxis, some dissectors are in the habit of smearing the hands, previous to beginning an autopsy, with cerate, either plain or carbol- ized ; others use caoutchouc gloves or tinger-stalls. But in neither case is the protection at all perfect. The cerates are soon removed by contact with the tissues, and the thin sheet of rubber is readily penetrated by a knife-point, a tenaculum, or a spicula of bone. Other Forms of Injury analogous to Dissection-Wounds. There are certain other cases which may be most appropriately mentioned here, as they are closely analogous to those just spoken of. Fish-Wounds.—Some fishes have sharp fins or spines, which inflict severe and “poisonous” wounds. An instance in point is reported by Murray:—1 A young man on the Irish coast was wounded by a fish called a “ stang,” a sort of herring, with hard scales and a sharp dorsal fin, well known to fishermen on account of the danger of its sting. The wound was in the ball of the thumb; the man sucked it, but he had pain up the arm as far as the axilla, and next day the whole limb was swol- len, a bubo had formed in the armpit, and there was marked fever and headache. Pulse 98, temp. 100.5°. An incision was made, laying the wound open ; poultices, and sub- sequently dry cotton, were used, and the arm was dusted over with dry bicarbonate of sodium. A purge was also given. The man made a rapid recovery. In the Mediterranean, and in some Eastern seas, there are other fish which have dorsal spines capable of poisoning the wounds inflicted by them. Some again have the poison-spines connected with the gill-covers. One species is mentioned by hTielly,2 as found at Panama, having four spines, two dorsal, and one attached to each gill-cover; each of these spines is said to be traversed by a canal leading to a sac full of liquid venom. The Acanthurus, met with in the waters about the Antilles, has its spines, which are mobile, on either side of the tail. The skate, or ray, is often called “sting-ray” or “stingaree,” from its long, sharp, caudal spine, wounds from which are troublesome but not dangerous. Bathers along the Atlantic coast are often stung by the jelly- fish, or Acalephos, found in the water especially after storms ; the injury seems to be due to an irritating secretion ejected through the tentacles, and induces symptoms resembling those of urticaria, with occasionally a decidedly ery- thematous tendency. Oyster-Shells sometimes seem to have a poisonous effect, producing great irritation if the hands are scratched with them ; in this respect they re- semble the sequestra of dead bone, before mentioned. Animal Typhus.—I am tempted to refer here to a case reported by Piehon, apd quoted by Dr. Jamieson, of Shanghai, China.3 'It was that of M. Char- rier, a veterinary surgeon, who was examining a cow suffering from typhus, when the animal coughed up a quantity of foul discharge, part of which 1 Lancet, Jan. 3, 1880. 2 Elements de Pathelogie Exotique. Paris, 1881. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, July 23, 1881.