704 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA?. Synovial Hernite. Owing to the course pursued by the ligamentous fibres forming the capsules of certain articulations, the synovial membrane at various points receives but indifferent support. This condition is most marked in the wrist and knee-joints. In both there are portions of tbe capsules, where either from the passage of bloodvessels, or from the angles at which the fibrous bands cross one another, small areas are left almost if not entirely void of ligamentous support. In both, moreover, the surrounding tissues do not afford that even, continuous, elastic support which is given by the muscles to such articulations as the shoulder and hip. What may be termed the popliteal segment of the knee-joint capsule, is unsupported by anything but the loose cellulo-adipose tissue there found. Although both the anterior and posterior portions of the radio-carpal joint are most efficiently supported where the tendons pass over it, the spaces between them can readily yield to a force from within the articulation. An anatomical variation, which, if present, would strongly pre- dispose to synovial hernia of the knee-joint, has been recently reported, viz., an entire absence of the posterior segment of the capsule, the so-called liga- ment of Winslow.1 Certain portions of other joints present favoring condi- tions for synovial hernias, although thus far, those of the knee and wrist-joint have alone been accui’ately noted. Either a chronic inflammation of the joint with effusion is the sole cause of these pouchings, or, in addition, a wrench or sprain acts as a determining cause. The joint disease usually con- sists in osteo-arthritic changes, which are undoubtedly the chief factors, but the importance of the anatomical facts just cited as predisposing causes, seems to have been entirely overlooked. These hcrniae interest the surgeon chiefly on account of their liability to be mistaken for aneurism, and the risk of confounding them with bursae normally present, but which do not communicate with the joint with which they are in relation. Chassaignac first called attention, at least in the case of the wrist-joint, to the liability of such herniee being mistaken for aneurism, and clearly pointed out how the error could be avoided.2 In his first case, there was over the swelling a scar produced by a fragment of glass, which had been driven in at this point some years previously. There was an ovoid, pulsat- ing swelling situated over the radio-carpal joint. The pulsation, which was remark- able for its energy and the extent of surface involved, seemed expansive, and did not simply elevate the applied fingers. Examined with the member in its habitual position, it was impossible to avoid the error of considering the swelling an aneurism. Forcible flexion of the wrist at once checked the pulsation. This effect was produced, either by relaxing the tension of the artery stretched over the cyst, or, as in another case reported by the same surgeon, by displacing the vessel, which could be felt pulsating to one side of the swelling. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of bursal hernia from aneurism is indicated in the preceding sentences, at least as far as the wrist is concerned. In addition, compression of the artery above the tumor would not produce any subsidence of the swelling, nor in most cases would the pulsation he of an expansile char- acter. Although, from pressure, both bruit and thrill might be present, their characters would probably differ from those of a true aneurism in being detected chiefly over a limited, linear portion of the tumor.3 The diagnosis between 1 F. J. Sheppard, Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, Sept. 1881, pp. 110, 111. 2 Soc. de Chirurgie, Seance d’Avril, 1845 ; also Gazette des Hopitaux, 29 Avril, 1845. 8 Since writing the above I see that Barwell, in the second edition of his work on Diseases of the Joints, has reported a case, on p. 507, which confirms the opinion expressed in the text, at least with regard to linear pulsation.