39 PUNCTURED WOoNDS. experienced in providing for the efficient evacuation of blood, serum, or broken-down tissue, where drainage is needed. These difficulties are clearly due to the external orifice of the wound being but small in proportion to the depth of the penetration. When a punctured wound is made with a clean sharp instrument, into the healthy tissues of a healthy subject, harm need not be anticipated; indeed, quick repair may be looked for with almost as much confidence as if the wound were of the more simple incised kind. This observation is confirmed by the general experience of all who practise subcutaneous surgery, although when large vessels or nerves are wounded, troubles may arise, which are not lessened by being hidden. When, however, a punctured wound is made with a blunt and wedge-shaped, or possibly a dirty instrument, the wound will be of the contused kind, and, being so, will partake of the disadvantages of such wounds in addition to those which appertain to it in itself. It will consequently—on account of its being contused—be associated with death of some of the injured tissues, for the escape of which due provision will be re- quired ; and it can only be expected to heal by the second or third intention. On account of its being a punctured wound, it will moreover exhibit the difficulties of providing for proper drainage, under circumstances in which efficient drainage is particularly called for. As a consequence of these con- ditions, special dangers are developed in punctured wounds, which can only be rightly met by a full recognition of their nature, and of the requirements essential to their prevention. When tense fasche are punctured—such as are found in the palm of the hand, sole of the foot, and scalp—or when deep muscles, bound down by fasciae, as in the thigh, are involved, and secondary inflammation ensues, the case is often very serious. Punctured wounds of cavities are worse than those of the soft parts covering bones, in the same way that all other wounds of those parts are graver; as well as from the fact that in punctured wounds there is more uncertainty as to the nature of the parts wounded, and that, with this uncertainty, there are, of course, less clear indications for treatment. Treatment of Punctured Wounds.—There is no form of wound which the surgeon has to treat, in which a greater uncertainty exists as to the result of treatment than in the punctured ; and all punctured wounds should be dealt with therefore with the greatest caution. When the wound has been in- flicted with a clean, sharp instrument, and when it is treated as it should be— as any other clean wound—with moderate compression and the application of a dry or antiseptic dressing, such as terebene and oil—and is then left pro- tected and at rest, to heal—there will be every prospect of repair going on as satisfactorily in a wound of accidental origin, as in those which surgeons daily inflict in their operations of tenotomy and osteotomy. Even when the wound is of the contused kind, and repair by quick union is not to be looked for, the surgeon is probably justified in employing the same means, although in doing so he must be keenly alive to the risks of the case and the dangers of the practice adopted, and must be ready, on the appearance of any swelling, pain, heat, or redness, and more particularly of any elevation of the bodily temperature, or fever, to remove all dressings, expose the wound, and adopt such means as the nature of the case will allow to give vent to the pent-up fluids of the part, and thus relieve the local irritation caused by their reten- tion ; to put an end to tension of the tissues; and to do what may be best to check the further absorption of substances which, if not already decomposing and undergoing chemical changes, may soon be so, and give rise to septicae- mia and blood-poisoning. In one case, this may be done by re-opening the external orifice of the