485 AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. be sought for on the extensor surfaces of the limbs, on the dorsal aspects of the forearms, and, above all, over the metacarpus, where it may be found alone in some cases, but where it almost always exists when it also occurs elsewhere. The cheeks and the mammary region are often affected by this peculiar insen- sibility, which may also extend to the mucous orifices of the body. At these points, even a deep prick with a sharp instrument is perceived only as contact, without giving the least pain. Tactile sensibility is usually present to a normal degree over the analgesic areas.1 Anaesthesia is much rarer than anal- gesia, and never occurs alone. Fournier notes several other disturbances of sensation, such as thermo-anaesthesia (he gives the case of a patient who burned himself severely with a red-hot iron, not perceiving its temperature by the touch), muscular analgesia, and even abolition of the muscular sense. Patients in this last condition cannot perceive motion or rest, and only know by ocular examination when the position of their limbs has been changed. Of course, all these peculiar nervous disturbances are very rare. The sympathetic system is also involved in some cases. Algidity, with de- pression of the surface temperature, which may descend to 82.4°, 78.8°, 77°, or even to 73.4° F., is occasionally observed. The extremities are cyanosed, and feel like ice; the pulse suddenly becomes filiform, and creeping chills are experienced. The depression is most marked at night. Sometimes sensa- tions of heat are observed, coming in putfs about the head and .spreading down through the body to the extremities. Still rarer is the occurrence of hyperidrosis, generalized and intermittent sweats, usually nocturnal or follow- ing slight fatigue; occasionally profuse perspiration of the extremities alone is observed. In all these cases the pathology is a matter of pure conjecture. Nothing is known of the organic changes which induce the various morbid phenomena observed clinically. Neuralgia in early syphilis is usually localized in the frontal and suborbital branches of the trigeminal; it is usually worse at night, and may easily be mistaken for the deep cephalalgia above described, or for the pain symp- tomatic of cranial bone-trouble. Among the other nerves which are some- times affected, may be mentioned the lingual, auricular, mastoid, great occipital, lumbo-abdominal, crural, and sciatic, the latter usually being attacked in part of its course only. When the intercostals are affected, the neuralgia may contribute to the occurrence of “ syphilitic asthma,” and when their branches running to the mamma' are involved, mastodynia ensues—a not uncommon, but most painful and stubborn symptom. Sometimes neuralgia is the first, and, for a time, the only, symptom of generalized syphilis. In all cases of mysterious and rebellious neuralgia, mercurials should be exhibited. The rapid disappearance of the painful symptoms under their use will furnish the best touchstone of the presence of syphilis, and a test of which the use in such cases is justifiable. The various forms of paralysis observed in early syphilis are also remark- able for the rapidity with which they yield to mercury and iodide of potas- sium. In connection with the facial nerve, akinesia is frequently observed; inertia or immobility of the muscles connected with expression, labial devia- tion, and depression of the cheek and of the corresponding side of the nares, are among the commonest symptoms of this affection, which often supervenes at a very early date.2 Hemiplegia is a rare but sometimes-encountered affection of the latter • See Wigglesworth, Analgesia in Secondary Syphilis (Boston Med. and Surg. Jonr., April 14, 1870). 2 Balmano (Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1863, p. 582) has reported a case where facial palsy super- vened a month after the infecting coitus, and on the seventh day of the erythematous eruption.