TREATMENT OF HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. 567 water from being splashed into the nose or eyes. The infant should be allowed to remain in the water at least ten or fifteen minutes, and should be then dried and powdered with starch—or, if there are any moist papules, these may be dusted with a powder of equal parts of calomel and oxide of zinc—and should then be put to bed. One bath should be given daily. Many authorities object to the use of baths in hereditary syphilis, but I bave had such good results from their use that I prefer them to all other forms of medication, where they can be used with safety and convenience. The best method of employing mercury by inunction is in the form of a dilute mercurial ointment, such as the following:— R—Ung. hydrarg. 3j. Unguenti, %j. M. This is to be smeared over a flannel roller, which is bound about the in- fant’s body and changed once in twenty-four hours. Sir Benjamin Brodie, who strongly recommended this plan of treatment, said that he had never found it to fail. The internal administration of mercury or of iodide of potassium to very young children, is neither necessary nor desirable ; in fact, I think it objection- able, as I have often seen the stomach upset by the administration of these drugs. In the case of older children, however, it may sometimes be desirable to administer the medicines in this manner. One of the best forms of giving mercury to children is in “gray powder,” as follows:— R.—Hydrargyri cum cret. gr. ij ad vj. Pulv. saceh. alb. gr. xij. M. To be divided into twelve powders ; one three times a day. The following formula (a modification of the well-known Sirop Gibert) is convenient when it is desirable to employ the “ mixed treatment”:— R Potassii iodidi, gr. v. Hydrargyri biniodidi, gr. Syrupi, t'3iij. Aqum, ad fgij. M. Teaspoonful three times a day for a child of a year old, with an increase proportional to that of the age. The treatment should be continued for a considerable time—at least three or four months—after all symptoms have disappeared. The attempt has often been made to give mercury and iodide of potassium to infants through the medium of the mother’s milk, but the effects have not been so decidedly favorable as to suggest this as an appropriate method. I am inclined to doubt if mercury can be given in this manner, but I believe that experiment has shown that iodide of potassium is found in the milk of nursing women to whom it is being administered by the mouth.1 1 The following papers may be referred to as giving additional information on subjects con- nected with hereditary syphilis :— Atkinson, An Account of a Case of Syphilis inherited through Two Generations (Archives of Dermatology, Jan. 1877) ; Bulkley, Rare Cases of Congenital Syphilis (New York Med. Jour., May, 1874) ; Id., Two Cases of very late Hereditary Syphilis (Archives of Dermatology, April, 1878) ; Hyde, On the Immunity of certain Mothers of Hereditarily Syphilitic Children (Transactions of the American Dermatological Association, Archives of Dermatology, April, 1878) ; Atkinson, Late Hereditary Syphilis (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1879) ; and Hyde, The Nurse-maid and the Mother of the Syphilitic Child (Chicago Med. Jour, and Exam., Nov. 1878).