599 VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE LOWER ANIMALS. Although, however, the lower animals seem proof against the inoculation of syphilis, they present some forms of venereal disease peculiar to themselves. Williams1 mentions urethritis as an affection seen in stallions and bulls, as a result of frequent coitus, but does not say ■whether the pus resulting from this affection is capable or not of reproducing itself under favorable condi- tions. Horand and Puech,2 who made observations concerning urethritis in dogs, found that the affection was rare, was characterized by a scanty secretion which issued from the anterior part of the canal, was accompanied by an intense balanitis, and was of short duration. They found that inoculation of the blennorrhagic discharges from man gave rise to urethritis in dogs and to vaginitis in bitches, but that the disease did not present the same series of symp- toms that it does in man. They also observed that the balanitis of dogs was much intensified by the inoculation of the blennorrhagic muco-pus of man. Hutrel D’Arboval3 describes a disease occurring in the horse which simu- lates syphilis, and is characterized by an inflammation of the glans penis ex- tending to the sheath, causing the organ to present a tense, shining appearance, and giving rise to phimosis and paraphimosis. Under the name “ La Dourine,” Saint Cyr4 describes a disease communicable by coitus, which has prevailed among the horses of the French army. The disease was first noticed in Tarhes, in 1854, and its reappearance in 1861 was due to the importation of an infected Arabian stallion ; it has existed for a long time in Syria, and is probably the same disease which was described by Ammon (seepage 598). The disease first attacks the reproductive organs, where it presents certain local manifestations; these are followed by numerous erup- tions, and by constitutional symptoms, the most prominent of which is a paralysis of the animal’s hind quarters, sometimes becoming general. The duration of the affection is from a few months to a year ; the termination is generally fatal, the animal dying of exhaustion or hypostatic pneumonia, although recovery may sometimes occur. 1 Practice of Veterinary Surgery, p. 630. 2 Jullien, loc. cit., p. 26. * Williams, op. cit. 4 Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligrapliie, 1876-77, p. 241.