HYPERTROPHIES. 019 a sharply pointed stick, or the sharp spoon or curette may be used to scrape out at once all diseased elements. As soon as any suspicion of transition to epitheliomatous growth arises, the part should be dealt with according to the rules for treatment in that affection. Callosities. (Synonyms: Tylosis; Tyloma; Callus.)—Callosities are thick- enings of the cuticle in the form of flattened elevations of irregular shape and size, of a translucent, pale yellowish color, and of firm, dense texture. Their surface presents the ordinary markings of the external skin, but with less distinctness than the surrounding parts, from which they rise without sharply defined borders. They are developed by constant or frequent pres- sure, or by friction, or by contact with over-heated or irritating substances, and they are formed most readily over parts in which the pressure from without is opposed by the counter-pressure of prominent bony protuberances immediately beneath the skin. The appearance of callosities varies accord- ing to their seat and the nature of the external conditions under which they are produced. With the exception of the soles and the sides of the feet, where they are of frequent occurrence, owing to the uneven distribution of pressure which is caused by ill-fitting shoes, and to which all classes of per- sons are liable, their most common seats are the hands of mechanics who constantly use in their work a limited number of tools. Thus the hammer of the blacksmith and carpenter, the awl of the shoemaker, the shears of the tailor, etc., makes each its own peculiar callus, which is easily recognized In its seat and shape. Lighter employments, too, may produce callosities, as the fingers of the type-setter and the player on stringed instruments show. When once formed, they serve as a shield to protect the sensitive parts be- neath them, and they last indefinitely, as long as the pressure which excited them is constantly exercised. When this is omitted for any considerable time, they either gradually disappear by the normal proces of epithelial desquamation, or are easily detached as a whole, leaving the cuticle beneath them of its natural thickness. They seldom cause any ill-effects: a slight blunting of sensibility in the parts affected ; a diminished freedom of motion, when extensive and seated upon palmar surfaces; or a disposition to form fis- sures over the flexures of joints, being those ordinarily observed. Occasionally, however, they excite an inflammation of the underlying cutaneous tissues, with attendant throbbing, heat, and pain, followed by suppuration, by which the horny mass is lifted up and finally thrown off. TreMme.nL—Surgical interference with callosities is seldom called for, except in case of painful fissures through or suppurative inflammation beneath them. In the former condition, the parts are to be kept covered as constantly as possi- ble with softening dressings, such as diachylon ointment spread thickly upon cloth, warm fomentations, etc. Sometimes the fissure, ivhen deep, can be made to heal only by preventing all motion of the part by strapping it with sticking plaster, so that its opposite walls shall be held in continuous apposi- tion. The corium surrounding and underlying the thickened epidermal structures is often in a state of constant liypersemia. When to this condition a true inflammatory condition is added, no time should be lost in dividing the thickened epidermal layer above the abscess, and allowing its contents to escape; otherwise the pus may burrow deeply, and give rise to serious dis- turbances in the part. When the hypertrophy is excessive, the upper layers of epithelium may be frequently shaved off, as in the case of corns. Clavus. (Synonym : Corn.)—The corn is also a callosity, or thickening of the horny layer of the epidermis; somewhat elevated above the surrounding surface : of flattened, circular, or hemispherical shape above, extending as a