GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 182 picked out, or, if they are so placed as to render it practicable, a blister may be' applied, upon the drawing of which the grains will be found either de- tached or so loosened as to be readily removed. Gunshot Injuries of the Heck. Wounds of this region are, as a,rule, of importance only when involving the air-passages, the pharynx or oesophagus, the great vessels, or the larger nerves. Mere contusions from spent'balls or shell fragments may cause tem- porary paralysis of the muscles of the neck, or of the upper extremity, or even muscular rupture with resulting distortion, and may be followed by more or less sloughing. Superficial wounds, that is, those not passing through the deep fascia, usually heal in due time—often very quickly when produced by small pistol balls or bird shot—though occasionally the cure is much delayed by the supervention of erysipelas, or of suppurative inflammation of the sub- cutaneous connective tissue. Of the deeper wounds, those of the lower part of the neck are more dangerous than those of the upper, death in many cases of the former category being consequent upon the extension of inflammation along the fascial planes to the parts within the thoracic cavity. When the injury is confined to the posterior part, but comparatively little damage is usually done, unless the vertebra; are wounded, although temporary paralysis, even to the extent of involving all four extremities, may result from spinal concussion, and more lasting paralysis and muscle-atrophy from lesion of the nerves soon after their emergence from the vertebral canal. Injuries of the muscles are ordinarily recovered from without difficulty, and with no serious after-results other than, at times, deformity consequent upon cicatricial adhesions, when the superficial tissues have been extensively destroyed, and upon contractures from loss of substance in the muscles themselves. Torti- collis, which chiefly follows wounds of the sterno-mastoid, may be permanent, or, as is more usually the case, may ultimately disappear, either wholly or in great measure. The exposed position of the larynx and trachea renders them quite liable to injury, though actual penetration is in a limited number of cases prevented by their deflection of musket bullets and much more frequently of small balls and shot. Small shot may even pierce the cartilaginous wall and lodge under or in the mucous membrane, laryngitis or tracheitis being in consequence de- veloped. I once examined, after death, a case of this sort, in which a charge of bird shot at short range “ peppered” the upper part of the left chest and the front of the neck, making an extensive laceration just above the right sterno-clavicular articulation. The fatal result was due to laryngitis consequent upon the lodgment of a single shot under the mucous membrane covering the left wing of the thyroid cartilage. Very rarely does the missile enter the air-tube without passing through, though such cases have been observed, the vulnerating body producing results similar to those which follow the introduction of any solid substance through the glottis. Suffocation, actual or impending, may be produced by the pres- sure of inflammatory products external to the trachea. Cicatricial contrac- tion after extensive destruction of the anterior part of the larynx, or inflam- matory stenosis, may compel the permanent wearing of a tracheal tube. Aphonia, in greater or less degree, very frequently follows injuries of this sort; necrosis of the cartilages is quite likely to occur; and aerial fistula; at times remain. A missile passing high up may wound the pharynx, or, at a lower point, the oesophagus; only very rarely is there associated lesion of both the air-