(119) GUNSHOT WOUNDS. BY P. S. CONNER, M.D., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, CINCINNATI; PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE DARTMOUTH MEDICAL COLLEGE, ETC. Gunshot Wounds, as declared by John Bell, are “ of most desperate nature, more various than can be imagined, to which all parts of the body are equally exposed.” Their frequent occurrence, their danger, and the influence of correct diagnosis and proper treatment upon their progress and result, render the consideration of these injuries of the highest importance to every surgeon, in civil as well as in military practice. Whether produced by small or large shot, by bullet or shell-fragment, or by some one of the much less commonly met with vulnerating bodies (percussion-cap, portion of gun, piece of stone, etc.), directly or indirectly propelled by the explosion of gunpowder, they are, with almost no exceptions, to be classed under the head of lacerated and contused wounds. Their gravity varies according to the importance of the part injured, and to a considerable extent is proportionate to the size and velocity of the missile. Other things being equal, a perforating wound of any part is less dangerous than a penetrating one in which lodgment has taken place, and a large shot, though moving at a low rate of speed (when nevertheless the momentum is great), may produce extensive damage. Missiles. As met with in civil life, these wounds are usually produced by small shot or pistol balls; very occasionally by parts of an exploded piece, by cap, by wadding, by cartridge-shell, or by ramrod. So-called “shot” vary in weight from 133 grains (the largest buck-shot) to as low even as less than one-fifth of a grain (2700 to the ounce), and pistol balls from 25 + grains to 350 grains, of a diameter ranging from .22 up to .50 of an inch. The U. S. service revolver bullet bas a diameter of .458 inch and a weight of 230 grains. The heat of the powder explosion may at times fuse a bird-shot charge into a single ball of nodulated exterior. In military surgery, the great majority of wounds result from rifle bullets; quite a number from shell fragments or case-shot balls; some, but not many of those coming under treatment, from solid shot or unexploded shells, and, as in siege operations, from grape-shot. In battles fought in the open country, about nine-tenths of all the wounds received are from bullets—91 per cent, among the Germans in the Tranco- German war (Fischer), 94.2 in the Italian campaign of 1859 (Longmore); in siege operations and assaults upon fortifications, the relative proportion of large shot, shell, and grape injuries is, as might naturally be anticipated, very much higher—-in the Crimean war about 46 per cent.