CHANCRE. 459 slight at first, hut gradually increases in amount up to the time when the chancre heals over, when it begins to decrease again and gradually disappears, usually within a few weeks, but sometimes not for months. The induration underlies and surrounds the sore, which lies in it as if in a cup. When the sore is large and ulcerated the induration may be comparatively slight—so slight as to be called “ parchment induration.” In other cases the induration is very considerable, raising the sore decidedly above the level of the sur- rounding skin. This is the ulcus elevatum1 of certain writers (Plate IX. Fig. S). Induration is more marked in some localities than in others; thus, in chancres of the preputial mucous membrane, the corona glandis, and the balano-preputial groove, induration is apt to be more decided than in chan- cres of the skin. In women induration rarely occurs to a marked degree. It is, however, rarely absent in any case, and forms one of the most distinctive characteristics of the chancre. Xow and then a small abscess forms in the induration just as it begins to be absorbed. Occasionally the induration ulcerates, so that it sometimes looks as if a new chancre were forming on the seat of the old one. Various Forms of Chancre.—Fournier2 gives an excellent description of the various clinical aspects presented by chancre as ordinarily met with. He gives the four following types: 1. The erosive, descpiamative chancre; 2. The exulcerative chancre; 3. The ulcerative chancre; 4. The papular chancre. The erosive chancre consists simply of an epidermic or epithelial desquamation, which merely denudes the derma without excavating it. The exulcerative chancre attacks the derma superficially, laying it bare but not actually exca- vating it. The ulcerative chancre, on the other hand, is hollow, excavated, jagged—an ulcer in fact, but an ulcer at the expense of its own tissues. Finally, the papular or elevated chancre is situated on a sort of raised plateau, and forms a disk rising above and sharply defined from the surrounding tissues; it sometimes assumes the appearance of the ulcus elevatum mentioned above. A further variety of chancre is worthy of mention; it is that known as the “ multiple hcrpetiform” chancre, where half a dozen or a dozen lesions appear simultaneously. Care must be taken not to confound these lesions with those of simple herpes progenitalis, which they sometimes closely resemble. “Mixed chancre” is the name given to the sore resulting from the inocula- tion of the syphilitic and the chancroidal virus at the same point. A person having a chancre may have connection with another individual free from syphilis, but having a chancroid, and may contract a chancroid on the very syphilitic sore, the two diseases running their course side by side. Or a per- son having a chancroid may have the sore inoculated with syphilis. The “mixed chancre” is not an entity; it cannot be transmitted from generation to generation as such. Chancre usually Solitary.—The chancre is usually solitary,3 the reason being that the virus is not auto-inoculable. To have more than one chancre [* This term is also applied by some writers to the chancroid. Vide supra, p. 424.] 2 Op. cit., and also in Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie, n. s., t. i. p. 750, from Jour, de Med. et Chir. Pratiques, 1880. 3 Fournier (op. cit., p. 75) gives the following statistics, relating, however, to women only: Of 203 patients observed, 134 had a single chancre; 52 had two ; 9 had three ; 4 had four ; 3 had five ; and 1 had six chancres. He also gives, as extraordinary, one case where nineteen and another where twenty-three chancres occurred simultaneously.