(101) SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS; ARROW WOUNDS. BY J. H. BILL, M.D., SURGEON AND BREVET LIEUTENANT-COLONEL, UNITED STATES ARMY. Sabre and Bayonet Wounds. Whilst the injuries inflicted by the sabre may be classed among incised wounds, yet they differ among themselves in point of cleanness of cut, according to the sharpness of the weapon and the way in which it is handled. As ordinarily used in war, the sabre has a dull edge, like the back of a table knife ; rarely are the sabres ground. Such a weapon, then, makes a wound by the weight of the blow, not by the velocity of the cut, and the wound which it makes must be more or less contused. Nevertheless, these wounds heal as readily as incised wounds made with keen-edged wea- pons, although they are more apt than the latter to be followed by noticeable scars. Sabre-wounds, and with these I include all sword-wounds, for thrusts with the sword are very rare, are of infrequent occurrence in modern war- fare, owing to reduction in the cavalry arm, and to the changes which of late have befallen its functions. The bayonet makes a punctured wound, and, this weapon being more or less blunt, its wound is apt to be a good deal contused. The weapon is triangular in section, and makes a wound with three radiating branches. The spade or trowel bayonet, if it ever wounds at all, will make a wound like any other spade. Like all other punctured wounds in cellular and mus- cular tissues, the gravity of a bayonet wound depends upon its depth; at the moment of making the wound, the several tissues through which the weapon passes are in different states of tension, and, as soon as the weapon is with- drawn, the several tissues resume their natural state, and thus cause an interruption in the continuity of the wound, or, in mining phrase, produce “ faults” in it. If the parts heal by first intention, as they usually do, no harm is done by these “ faults,” but if pus forms, it will not be able to find its way to the surface by the wound, and lienee burrowing and abscesses. These wounds, like sabre-wounds, are of very infrequent occurrence. The soldier as a rule dislikes to use his bayonet. I was told by an officer engaged in the Mexican war, in 1846, that, at the capture of the city of Mexico, he saw soldiers firing their muskets into the bodies of certain of the enemy, to whom quarter had been refused, with the bayonets actually resting against the persons of the slain. Both sabre and bayonet wounds are quite as often received in private quarrels and disturbances as in battle. Statistics of Sabre and Bayonet Wounds.—In the British army in the Crimea, about 11,900 wounded men were received into hospital. There were only 76 cases of bayonet wound, with 7 deaths, and 87 of sword wound, with