668 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Scabies, in America, is a very fluctuating affection in point of frequency. In the early part of the present century, it was as prevalent among children, as the exanthemata, but afterwards, and until the time of our civil war, had nearly disappeared. During the camp life of that period, it found the most favorable conditions for rapid development and general distribution. Soldiers returning on leave, transplanted it in their homes all over the country, so that it became a universal evil. Since then it has been almost extermi- nated, reviving to a slight extent, from time to time, in direct ratio to the amount of foreign immigration. Treatment.—There are two distinct purposes to be accomplished in the treatment of scabies: one is to destroy the animal in all its phases of exist- ence, the other to cure the cutaneous disturbances. Unfortunately, the first necessity can be effected by such remedies only as tend to aggravate the con- dition of the latter, so that in every individual case, the treatment must be prudently adjusted to meet these two objects. In many cases, preparatory treatment even is necessary in order that the inflammatory processes in the cutaneous tissues may be sufficiently reduced to bear the action of the para- siticide. In the majority of cases, however, the two objects may be accom- plished simultaneously by a combination of methods. When the skin is greatly inflamed, covered to a large extent with excoriations and pustules, or in a state of acute oedematous eczema, vesicular and oozing, the methods already advised for the management of such conditions (see Eczema, p. 614), should be employed until the inflammation has been sufficiently reduced to endure the stimulating action of the other class of remedies. This will sometimes require a week or more. The most active agents that can be used upon the skin for the destruction of the itch insect and its eggs, are sulphur and Peruvian balsam. They must be employed in such a way, however, that they will penetrate to the haunts of the insect within the epidermis, as well as upon its surface. The addition of an alkali is of material assistance in this direction, by removing the outer layers of cuticle, and such a combination forms the basis of all the so-called “ quick cures” of the disease. The three most effective preparations of this class are: Helmerich’s ointment (sulphur, two parts; carbonate of potas- sium, one part; lard, eight parts); Wilkinson’s ointment (sulphur, oil of cade, green soap, and lard, equal parts); and Vlemingkx’s solution (sulphur, two parts; caustic lime, one part; water, twenty parts. Boil down to twelve parts and filter). The patient is first rubbed thoroughly over all affected parts with one of these, spread on a bit of flannel rag. He is then allowed to lie in a warm bath for half an hour, when the skin is rinsed in fresh water, and rubbed with some soothing ointment or simple lard wherever excoriations exist. This pro- cess is to be repeated for three or four nights in succession. The thorough- ness of the applications is to be limited only by the endurance of the indi- vidual’s skin, and the amount of inflammation it presents. Uo parts except the head are to be spared. Instead of the lard, m the Wilkinson’s ointment, alcohol may be substituted, as recommended by Hebra, this giving greater penetration to the parasiticides in its composition. These are the most powerful means of treatment, and are especially ser- viceable in cases of long standing and extensive distribution. The itching usually disappears after the first night’s application. In milder cases, and in women and children, less severe measures may be employed, if desired—a mixture of sulphur and styrax, or Peruvian balsam, is generally effective, and not offensive or irritating. The following formula is a good one: Ik Sul- phuris 3ss, balsami Peruviani sj, adipis seu vaselini sij-—M. It is to be rubbed