638 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. childhood, but they may appear at any time up to extreme old age. Once developed, they are generally permanent, but the superficial forms are capable of spontaneous involution. Their seat is principally the face, but they occur also upon the neck, breast, backs of the hands, and indeed upon any part of the surface of the body. They may also affect the red border of the lips, and the interior of the mouth. hOEVUS Vascularis.—This variety of angeioma is congenital, or becomes apparent immediately after birth. It appears in the form of a diffused dis- coloration of the surface, varying in tint from a faint pink, through bright scarlet or purple, to a deep indigo, and its size varying from that of a small pea to uniform areas of great extent. The surface may be smooth and even, and but slightly elevated above the surrounding skin, and slightly or not at all turgescent. This is Ncevus Jiammeus, Ncevus simplex, or “ Tort-wine mark.” Another form, more deeply seated and composed of larger vessels, is not so uniformly diffused, but prominent, of uneven surface, tumor-like, and com- pressible. This is Ncevus tuberosus, Angeioma prominens, or Angeioma caver- nosinn. Both forms generally occur singly, and have their principal seat upon the head, on the scalp, and all parts of the face, are found sometimes upon the trunk and hands, and are seen rarely upon the lower extremities. They are sometimes associated with pigmented and warty nsevi. They generally attain a considerable development in the first months of life, and may remain perma- nently of the size thus acquired. On the other hand, they may take on a more active growth, or may undergo diminution in size, at any subsequent period of life. The deeper-seated forms are especially liable to assume a more active de- velopment in later life, extending down into the subcutaneous tissues-—muscles, nerves, and bones, even—producing atrophy of the same by pressure of the immense vascular new growth, which becomes converted into a prominent spongy tumor, occupying large districts of the body (see Elephantiasis telean- giectodes, page 630). Anatomically, these growths present great differences in the complexity of their structure. The flat forms of nsevus consist simply of an enlargement or new growth of the capillaries of the papillae and of the upper layer of the corium, with generally some enlarged feeders rising up from the deeper vas- cular plexus. The variations in their color depend upon the relative predomi- nance of the venous and arterial vessels. In the prominent (tuberosus) forms, not only are the deeper seated trunks enlarged, but the networks connected with the various glandular systems of the skin are implicated, with new de- velopment of vessels in the form of pouches and coils, which communicate freely with each other, forming great sponge-like convolutions of bloodvessels, mixed with more or less new growth of connective tissue of the gelatinous kind. In the extreme examples of this sort, we have Elephantiasis angeio- matosa. The true Tumor cavernosus, so called, has a much greater develop- ment of the fibrous tissue, which surrounds the vascular new growth with a firm capsule, and sends off shoots from the same between the vessels within, forming partition walls and a firm fibrous skeleton to the whole mass, within which the blood flows in great open channels. The precise anatomical nature of such tumors is a subject of active discussion among pathologists. They are generally confined to the internal organs, but may develop beneath or within the skin, rarely attaining the size of a walnut. They are found in the neighborhood of the saphenous and cephalic veins. Their surface may be the seat of various excrescences. Treatment of Angeiomata.—For the simple teleangiectases, efforts may be made to destroy the tortuous vascular twigs -which ramify so near the sur-