629 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. world. It may also affect other parts of the body, such as the cheeks, upper extremities, ears, female breasts, etc. In the leg, the disease first shows itself as an erysipelatous inflammation of the part, with swelling of the nearest lymph glands, and general febrile dis- turbance. The lymph vessels also are tender, and may occasionally be felt as hard cords extending up the leg. The temperature of the part is raised. In consequence of the inflammatory obstruction, lymph and serum are effused, and permeate the cutaneous tissues, giving rise to cedematous swelling. After a time these manifestations disappear, and the part returns apparently to its natural condition; but generally a slight thickening and hardness in the in- tegument remain behind. Sooner or later, another attack of erysipelatous inflammation comes on in the same part, and runs the same course, leaving the skin more decidedly and permanently changed. After a few such attacks, the limb generally begins to assume the unmistakable external appearances of elephantiasis. The local erysipelatous attacks continue, hut they arc less periodic, and are unaccompanied by general febrile action, while the growth is constantly progressive. The thickening generally begins in the subcuta- neous cellular tissue, but it may be at first largely confined to either the upper or lower layers of the corium, the outward appearances of the disease varying greatly according as the superficial tissues of the skin are affected or not. When these escape, the surface may appear perfectly smooth and shining, even if pushed up by large nodular growths beneath it. On the other hand, the papilbe may be enormously elongated, resembling the surface of warts or even the bristles of a brush, or forming large papillomatous tubercles. The pigment cells of the rete may be so largely developed as to give a brown or black color to the surface, or the outer layers of the epidermal cells may accumulate to as great an extent as in Ichthyosis cornea. With or without these surface alterations, the essential change in the cutaneous tissues goes on in the deeper parts, viz.: a true hypertrophy of its fibrous elements in the corium and subcutaneous structures. A section through these enormously thickened parts—the skin yielding sometimes clean cuts of four or five inches perpendicular measurement—shows a firm, white, lardaceous looking sub- stance, permeated by serum and lymph. Interposed between the meshes of new fibrous tissue, of which the mass is mainly composed, connective-tissue cells are found in abundance. The cutis is firmly united with the subcuta- neous tissues, the normal anatomical boundaries being obliterated. The blood- vessels are enlarged and their walls thickened. The disease affects also the connective tissue around and within the underlying muscles, and, in advanced cases, penetrates to the periosteum. The muscles are found in a state of fatty degeneration and their fasciae are greatly thickened. In connection with the hypertrophy of the periosteum, new bony material is largely formed, and in this way anchylosis of contiguous bones and of the joints is produced. Thus the disease goes on for years, until the leg may attain enormous dimensions, measuring in circumference, in some cases, 36 inches below the knee and 57 inches at the thigh, and giving rise to a variety of secondary processes. The enormous folds of skin, separated by deep sulci, may by friction become the seat of an eczematous condition ; or a true erysipelatous inflammation of the integument may ensue. Ulcers, abscesses, gangrene of the parts may arise ; a great and persistent flow of lymph may weaken the patient; the nerves may be so pressed upon as to cause severe neuralgia; disease of the bones may de- velop ; or the great weight and discomfort caused by the tumor may of them- selves reduce the patient’s strength. Upon the genitals, the progress of the disease is unaccompanied by the characteristic, paroxysmal, inflammatory symptoms which, in its early stages, it presents upon the legs. It begins insidiously, most commonly in the clitoris