288 ULCERS. which tends to soften the indurated tissues, and thus both to free the blood- vessels from peripheral pressure, and to permit the sliding of the skin toward the ulcer, will be favorable to the healing process. Thus incisions through the dense tissues about an ulcer—but not so near as to sever the vessels that go directly to it—are of benefit by permitting the discharge of a portion of the infiltrating serum; but besides this, the cuts will be found to open, thus proving that there has been also a relief of tension at the margin of the ulcer. The incisions, which should be kept open by strips of linen, form also new sites for the process of cicatrization, and that in tissues where the power of repair is greater than at the site of the ulcer itself. Incisions made about, an ulcer should be in a general way concentric with it, but should not he made' all in the same line; they should rather be allowed to pass each other, as a tight boot is sometimes cut to relieve a swollen joint from too great pressure thus:— Plastic Operations for Old Ulcers.—An operation by Prof. Frank H.. Hamilton, proposed in 18461 and executed in 1854,2 deserves a passing notice.. A flap of .skin, raised from the calf of the sound leg, and still attached by a broad pedicle, was transplanted to the site of the ulcer, in which a bed was prepared for it by dissecting out the granulations and part of the cicatrix. In the case reported, healing was accomplished in about one hundred days, after the loss, by sloughing, of a portion of the flap. From his observation of this case, Prof. Hamilton announced the important fact that “ if smaller than the chasm which it is intended to fill, the graft will grow, or project from itself new skin to supply the deficiency.” Skin-Grafting.—In 1870, M. Reverdin in France, and after him Mr. Pol- lock and others in England, published cases in which small bits of skin had been transplanted upon the granulating surface of ulcers, and had formed new centres for the development of epidermis. The same year, Mr. Cumberbateh succeeded in transplanting skin-grafts taken from a leg four hours after amputa- tion ; and M. Marc See proposed to substitute epidermic scales for the bits of skin which had been previously employed as grafts. In 1871,3 I published some comparative experiments in “cell or skin-graft- ing” by transplanting small bits of cutis, by powdering the surface of the ulcer with dry epidermic scales scraped from the thick cuticle of the foot, and by spreading upon the granulating surface flakes or sheets of detached epider- mis. All of these plans yielded excellent results, but the epidermic scales and sheets seemed on the whole to do better than the deeper skin-grafts.. Within the past year, Dr. B. Bribach, lately an assistant at the St. Louis City Hospital, has, at my suggestion, made comparative tests of the two methods, and has found the epidermic cells to answer quite as well as the skin-grafts. Dr. E. Studer, now an assistant at the same hospital, has re- peatedly grafted with old dry scales of epidermis, with flakes of loose epider- 1 Buffalo Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 508. 2 New York Journal of Medicine, vol. xiii., New Series, p. 169. 3 St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. viii., New Series, July, 1871.