527 SYPHILIS OF THE LIVER. titis. Lacombe1 considers these two forms as anatomically the same, but they are best described separately. Some authors consider amyloid degene- ration of the liver as a syphilitic lesion, but it is rather the effect of a cachexia which may or may not be syphilitic in origin. Again, peri- hepatitis has been considered as an independent affection, but recent writers regard this as merely the result of interstitial hepatitis. In perihepatitis, the lesions are situated in the fibrous envelope of the organ, which is thickened, and which shows marked adhesions attaching it to the neighboring organs, particularly the diaphragm. The membrane sometimes contains a greater or less number of small, hard, whitish nodules. In interstitial hepatitis, the volume of the organ varies according to the stage of the disease. In the earlier stage it is hypertrophied, in the later stage atrophied and shrunken. The color of the organ is changed to a more or less bright yellow on the surface, and in section, when also white stride formed by the prolongations of the hypertrophied fibrous membrane can be seen. In the gummatous form of hepatitis, a more or less considerable number of gummy tumors, similar to those observed in the cellular tissue, are found in various stages of evolution. Virchow has described a syphilitic lesion of the liver which assumes the form of cicatrices. The surface of the liver is also found to show loss of substance at circumscribed points, replaced by whitish stellate patches, the prolongations of which penetrate more or less deeply into the tissues beneath. The biliary canals and vessels are rarely intact; sometimes they are found to have entirely disappeared. The lesions may occupy the entire organ or only a single lobe. Syphilitic affections of the liver are most apt to occur in individuals who have not been properly treated during the early stages of their disease, either because of neglect, or because the earlier manifestations were so trifling as to escape notice. It is commonly met with between the ages of thirty and forty. Extraneous influences,such as traumatism or superactivity of the organ, predispose to the disease. Alcoholism is a recognized predisposing cause. Symptoms.—The symptomatology of syphilis of the liver is by no means as well understood as its pathology. The course of the disease may be divided into three stages, corresponding to the pathological changes which take place in the affected organ. (1) The first stage, corresponding to that of connective tissue hyperplasia—- hypertrophy of the liver—is characterized by enlargement of the organ to a degree perceptible to external examination. Percussion shows dulness, sometimes extending two or three finger-breadths above the floating ribs, while the tumor can be seen in the epigastric region. This hypertrophy is a late manifestation; it may occur from three to four years after the early syphilitic symptoms, or in some cases as late as twenty years. Its duration is very variable. It may increase by successive exacerbations. Pain is a characteristic symptom. Usually of a dull dragging character, and aggravated on walking, it may occasionally occur in acute paroxysms of much greater severity, especially at night. The pain radiates toward the epigastrium, the iliac fossa, and the kidneys. It gives rise to such sensitive- ness that the least pressure causes distress, and that patients cannot at times even so much as button the clothing. Icterus, usually succeeding the hypertrophy, is an occasional symptom of this period of hepatic syphilis. It is supposed to be due, under ordinary circum- stances, to extension of the inflammation to the bile-ducts, and to oblitera- tion of these by desquamation. Another explanation, suggested by the 1 Etude sur les Accidents Hepatiques de la Syph. chez l’Adulte. Th&se de Paris, 1874.