GENERAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 573 as possible. It is a good plan to employ a mouth-wash during the adminis- tration of mercurials, such as the following :— R—Potassii chlorat. 5j* Aquas, fgvj. M. Sig.—Use as a mouth-wash three or four times daily. This may be combined with an aromatic astringent, as in the following elegant preparation:— Chlorate of potassium, 3ss. “ Eau de Botot,” f§ij. A teaspoonful in a wineglassful of water, as a gargle. If salivation has actually set in when the patient is seen, the first of these formulas may be administered internally in teaspoonful doses four or five times daily, or belladonna may be given as in the following (Sturgis):— R—Tinct. belladonnas, f'3iv. Aquas, fgij. M. Sig.—Teaspoonful four times a day in water. Atropia may be preferred in severe cases:— R Atropiae sulphat. gr. Alcoholis, fjss. Aquas, q. s. ad f^ij. M. Sig.—Teaspoonful three or four times daily. The chlorate of potassium may be employed simultaneously. When the gums are spongy, and the teeth are loosened and appear ready to drop out, nitric acid should be given internally and locally. R—Acid, nitric, dil. f3>v. Aquae, f^ij- M. Sig Teaspoonful four times a day in water; also use locally, diluted with water. Keyes recommends chlorate of potassium, in solution in cold tea, about one or two drachms to the pint, with a scruple of carbolic acid. The carbolic acid is particularly called for by the fetor of the breath, and to sweeten the foul secretions of the mouth. He also recommends the employment of hypodermic injections of a solution of atropia (gr. j to fgj), five minims of which may be thrown under the skin—the influence on the pupil being watched, and the dose repeated every four or six hours until the pupils are widely dilated. The effect of this remedy upon the salivary secretion, says Dr. Keyes, is often very prompt, and the general influence over salivation quite marked. Sulphide of calcium, in from one-tentli to one-fifth grain doses every three hours, is a remedy which has been highly commended, but which, in my expe- rience, has not proved very satisfactory. Fumigation.—Mercurial fumigation, formerly much employed as a remedial agent in syphilis, fell for a time into disuse, but has been revived again of late years, chiefly through the efforts of Mr. Langston Parker, of Birmingham, England, and more lately through those of Mr. Henry Lee. The vapor may be generated from metallic mercury, calomel, mercury with chalk, the bisulphuret, the gray oxide, or the binoxide. The amount to be used varies from twenty to one hundred and twenty grains, according to the effect desired. Calomel is the best agent for ordinary employment, and the simpler the apparatus used the better. Water is usually vaporized simultaneously with the mercurial. Bumstead and Taylor give two cuts illustrating the best apparatus for vaporizing by means of an alcohol lamp or by gas. An