85 DISSECTION-WOUNDS. as chloride of zinc.solution, in preparing bodies for the dissecting-room, dis- section-wounds, or serious symptoms following upon them, were much more common than now. The danger is incurred in dealing with the tissues of the recently dead rather than with those in a state of advanced putrefaction, and it is well known that post-mortem examinations of those who have died of certain diseases—especially of puerperal fever, erysipelas, or pyaemia—are attended with peculiar hazard. It would seem as if the earliest changes undergone after the occurrence of death were those which developed the poison. Very possibly the ptomaines, or cadaveric alkaloids, substances allied to the vegetable alkaloids, recently studied by Brouardel and Boutmy, Selmi, and other European observers, may be found to play an important part in the causation of the mischief. With regard to these substances very little is as yet known, but it is stated1 that they are supposed to be analogous to a con- stant ingredient of saliva, which, in a concentrated form, is the active con- stituent of the venom of snakes. M. Brouardel is quoted in the same connection as of opinion that the ptomaines may be formed during life. One point should be especially noted, viz., that the amount of poison absorbed in a case of dissection-wound (using this term in its general sense) makes no difference in the effect. The minutest portion seems to act as a ferment, and to change the condition of the whole mass of circulating blood. In this re- spect, the analogy between the dissection-poison and snake-venom seems to fail, since the effect of the latter is clearly proportionate to the amount and concentration of the dose received into the system, as in the case of mineral or vegetable substances taken by the stomach or rectum. Symptoms op Dissection-Wounds.—In the slightest iorm,the effects of this species of poison seem to be purely local. Thus if the dissector has a prick or scratch on his hand, it may become the seat of slight inflammation, and in a day or two discharge a small quantity (perhaps only a drop or two) of pus. But the cuticle around generally dies and peels off, just as in the case of a boil, and the redness and swelling disappear somewhat slowly. Sometimes, especially after the fingers have been for some time in contact with purulent liquids, and more particularly in abdominal abscesses, the poi- son may affect a chain of points on the backs of the hands. Thus in 1862, after making a post-mortem examination in a case of peritoneal inflammation, with suppuration, from an intestinal concretion in the vermiform appendix, I had four or five small abscesses on the back of each hand. In these cases, there seems to be no further action of the poison, although the local conditions are analogous to those present when inflammation extends upward along the course of the lymphatics. Occasionally there occurs enlargement of the lym- phatic glands in the axilla, either without any notable lesion of the hand, or, if such should exist, without any traceable affection of the vessels. This, I think, is not apt to be from the ordinary dissection-poison, but may be met with where injected bodies are used for purposes of study ; it seems to be from the irritant effect of the chloride of zinc or other chemical antiseptic employed. The swelling of the glands is chronic in its character, not painful, nor very tender, and has not in my experience run into suppuration, but has gradually subsided, under the local use of tincture of iodine. Agnew describes2 a peculiar form of irritable sloughing ulcer of the hand, attended with marked constitutional disturbance, as a result of dissection-wounds. This I have never seen, although it has sometimes happened to me to note the very slow healing of severe cuts received in making autopsies; one in my own person, 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, July 30, 1881. s Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol i. p. 210.