387 TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. with a small sharp-pointed history, dipped into carbolized oil, three or four punctures are rapidly made to the depth of from a quarter to half an inch. A few drops of serum will usually spurt out, sometimes a considerable quantity. In either event almost immediate relief from pain is experienced by the patient, and a continuance of the previous treatment will result in rapid cure. I have never seen unpleasant consequences of any description follow this plan of treatment, although it is said in one instance to have caused profuse hemorrhage. The method of puncturing the tunica albuginea, has, however, in a number of cases, been the cause of hernia of the tubuli seminiferi, and occasionally of destruction of the organ. When the swelling, either in spite of treatment or in its absence, has pro- gressed to a considerable extent and the testicle presents a large solid mass, the pain having become dull and aching, and only severe upon motion or in walk- ing, great relief may be obtained by the application of compression. For strapping a testicle, the scrotum should be shaved, the testicle drawn down as far as possible, and a strip of adhesive plaster about half an inch in Fig. 325. Fig. 326. Strapping a testicle: application of the initial strap. Testicle strapped. width made to encircle it, so as to retain it in that position in the form of a tense tumor, pear-shaped and purplish in color (Fig. 325). This is then tightly covered in with successive strips of plaster (Fig. 326), placed first circularly until the greatest circumference of the tumor is reached and they refuse to adapt themselves neatly to the surface, and then longitudinally so as to cover in the lower segment completely. The testicle may then be placed in a suspensory bandage, and in most cases the patient is able to go about with little or no pain. The dressing should be replaced every day or two, as it will loosen as the swelling disappears. An ointment of belladonna and iodoform may then be applied upon a piece of lint worn beneath the suspensory. The cases of trouble of various kinds, of failure to produce good results, of increased inflammation, etc., which have been reported to follow this