SUBCUTANEOUS WOUNDS. 53 he established a principle of which “ indeed it seems hardly possible to exagge- rate the importance” (Paget), and laid the foundation of a branch of surgical practice now known as Subcutaneous Surgery. Why it is that extensive in- juries to soft parts, when covered with skin, should undergo quiet and thor- ough repair, with little or no constitutional disturbance, may not be clear; but daily experience teaches us that dislocations of large joints, fractures of bones, severe contusions and lacerations of soft parts, associated with copious local hemorrhages, and even crushes of all the subcutaneous tissues of a foot or hand, as a rule, do well, provided that they are not interfered with by meddlesome practice, but are placed in the most favorable position for natural repair to carry out its silent work. Whereas the same experience tells us, with no uncertain voice, that the presence of a wound, however small, may change matters all round, and turn an injury which, had it been subcutaneous, might have been regarded as trivial, into one of a serious and complicated kind; and this fact is well exemplified in the different course usually taken by a simple and a compound dislocation or fracture. What there is in the air that makes this wide difference, is now, as it ever has been, open to argument; and wThether it is the stimulating or chemical influence of the oxygen, the irritating influence of atmospheric germs, the length of time the part is ex- posed, rather than the mere fact of exposure, or some other cause, may be subject to dispute. In modern times, the germ theory has found much favor, and has been the fashion; and attempts have been made to assign to the presence of germs every evil influence, and to regard these as the cause of inflamma- tion and suppuration in every open wound. But this view can hardly be sustained, for, on the one hand, even in subcutaneous injuries, in which no air can get in, inflammation and suppuration may ensue; while, on the other hand, in even severe examples of fractured ribs, complicated with emphysema over the chest, body, head, and extremities—in cases in which the whole cel- lular tissue of the body seems infiltrated with unfiltered air under most unfa- vorable circumstances—it is quite exceptional for any inflammation of the infiltrated parts to take place; indeed, I may say that I have never seen an instance in which it occurred. As corroborative evidence, I may refer to some observations made in 1857, by Malgaigne, who, to test this question, made animals emphysematous with common unfiltered air, and then fractured their bones, divided their tendons, and opened their joints, subcutaneously; though the parts operated upon were surrounded with air, no inflammation followed. For my own part, I am disposed to think that it is not the mere exposure of a wounded part to the influence of air, that does the harm, but its pro- longed exposure; since it is certain that where wounds are sealed rapidly, after the receipt of an injury, and are thus placed much in the position of subcutaneous injuries, repair goes on silently and well. Even bad compound fractures, when sealed early from the influence of air, heal, as a rule, like sub- cutaneous injuries. / Repair of Subcutaneous Wounds.—-It may be accepted as a truth, that subcutaneous wounds are repaired much in the same way as open wounds that heal by quick or primary union; that is, when the wounded parts are brought or kept in contact, they simply reunite; and this applies to hard as to soft tissues. The process of repair in both cases is a quick physiological one, not unlike that of development and growth. The action that attends the process is just enough to bring about the required result, but no more; when it is excessive, inflamma- tion is said to exist, and this inflammation, in subcutaneous as in open wounds, always prevents, checks, arrests, or undoes the work of repair. In truth, the less there is of inflammation in a wounded part, subcutaneous or open, the more