652 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. tion upwards over the pubic region, or down upon the inner thighs in a ser- piginous course. Upon the trunk, epithelial cancer very rarely occurs prima- rily; upon the extremities still less often, unless it he developed upon preced- ing lupus growths, or ulcers from other forms of disease. Anatomy of Epithelioma.—According to Ivaposi, who has given an admira- ble account1 of the new growths of the skin, a section of its structure in the superficial form of epithelioma, shows that the prolongations of the rete downwards into the corium are greatly elongated in the form of slender coni- cal cylinders, which broaden as the disease progresses, and nearly obliterate the intervening papillae, or even send out lateral processes, which anastomose with similar processes, or which terminate in free bulbs. In the nodular or deep-seated form, these epithelial, cylindrical new growths penetrate more deeply into the fibrous structure of the corium, interlacing in all directions, and, in addition to them, globular masses, having an alveolar or concentric arrangement, are found, consisting of small cells in their central portions, and of large flattened cells in their external layers. These peculiar bodies are called globes epidermiques, epithelioid pearls, epithelial globes, inflammation cells, etc. They occur in the midst of the epithelial cylinders, of various sizes, but they are not peculiar to epithelioma. The connective tissue is not mate- rially altered in the flat form of the disease, but in the deep seated variety is not only encroached upon, throughout, by the new growth of the epithelial bodies, but these are surrounded by round cells, and, in the papillomatous form, traversed by new bloodvessels. The glandular structures of the skin are but slightly altered and enlarged, or undergo fatty or colloid degenera- tion. In the progress of the disease, the encroaching cylinders destroy the corium and underlying tissues by atrophy or by interrupting their nutrition. The new growth itself may undergo fatty or colloid degeneration, become absorbed, or break down in ulceration. The epithelial new growth has its origin, according to Virchow, in the connective tissue; according to Thiersch, only from the pre-existing epithelium of the rete or glands; according to Ivoester, from the lymph cells ; according to Biesiadecki and Warren, from the small wandering cells or leucocytes. Kaposi’s own views are that the first cancroid cylinders are the epithelial cones of the rete, proliferating freely; that the epithelial lining of the sweat-glands may also serve as the starting- point of the proliferation; and that it is probable that the connective tissue involved may be stimulated to epithelioid as well as to inflammatory prolife- ration. Etiology.-—Epithelial cancer, although much more common after middle life, is not impossible in childhood. It occurs more frequently in men than in women. There is no evidence of a tendency to its being inherited. Ex- cepting the action of local conditions, we have little knowledge of its causes. Any chronic alteration in the epithelial structures of the skin may conduce to its development, and accordingly warts, pigmented or sebaceous, collec- tions of epidermal scales, the bases of cutaneous horns, etc., frequently serve as the starting-points of the disease. Senile forms of keratosis, especially, are prone to such transformation into epithelioma, and all such conditions of the cuticle should be looked upon, in old people, as possible seats of the affection, and should receive proper treatment in view of such suspicion (page 618). Again, long standing inflammatory states of the cutaneous tissues may be- come the seat of such transformation, as is seen in old ulcers of the leg, lupus granulations, etc. 1 Pathologie und Therapie der Hautkrankheiten. Wien, 1881.