186 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. when it is a rib or the sternum that has been struck. Circumscribed pleurisy is a frequent but not necessary consequence of costal fracture, and extensive necrosis may follow the bone-injury. When the fracture is produced by an out-going shot, it is (as was originally pointed out by Brinton) decidedly less Fig. 277. Gunshot fracture of rib by round musket-ball which was embedded. (A. M. M., Sect. 1, Spec. 887.) dangerous than under other circumstances, all splinters being then carried away from the cavity, and bone-fragments being more likely to do harm to the lung than the bullet itself. Small balls at times bury themselves in the ribs, or in the sternum, and a bullet of even large size may wedge itself firmly in an intercostal space, ultimately, if not removed, working its way externally, or by ulceration and absorption getting into the pleural sac. When a costal cartilage is struck by other than a small missile, fracture takes place, but without a scattering of fragments. The treatment of non-penetrating chest injuries, whether there is or is not fracture present, is that of like wounds in general, in no way materially modified because of location. Foreign bodies are to be removed, if they can be found; but their discovery is at times very difficult, as when the projectile, even if of large size, is lodged under the scapula, or buried deep in the mus- cles of the back, or in or near the axillary space. Hemorrhage is to be arrested, preferably by ligation of the wounded vessel above and below the point from which it bleeds, or, if this cannot be done, by compression, or by the use of cold, or of hot water. The exceedingly dangerous bleedings from the axillary vessels (those from the artery being much graver than those from the vein) which often cause rapidly forming, diffused, traumatic aneurisms and blood- tumors, though undoubtedly they have at times been stopped by compression, yet can be safely treated only by ligation, at the seat of injury rather than above it, or by ligation followed by amputation of the whole upper extremity. Wound of an intercostal artery, though fortunately not very common, may, when it does occur, especially if located far back, give rise to a very consider- able hemorrhage, which is to be treated by direct compression rather than by ligation, an operation which is here neither easy nor safe; of eight cases in which it was attempted during our civil war, six proved fatal. Formal ex- cision of fractured bones should not be employed, except at a late period, for extensive necrosis; though the sharp ends of a broken clavicle or rib may often with advantage be cut off. As in simple fracture, compression of the chest or half chest with a broad bandage, with adhesive straps, or with a plaster-of-Paris roller, will afford much comfort and hasten recovery. Penetrating Wounds.—It is to penetrating injuries that the special interest of thoracic wounds attaches. Though they may vary greatly in the amount of damage done, and in the complications developed, they are always grave lesions. In military surgery, many of the subjects of these injuries are left on the field, and in civil practice speedy death is not infrequent. For their production, it is not absolutely necessary that the projectile should enter the thoracic cavity, as the pleura, alone or together with the lung, may be wounded by bone-fragments. At times, chiefly when the vulnerating body is a pistol-ball or a small shot, laceration of the pleura or even penetration