GONORRHOEA. 366 or linen m place (Fig. 317). If the glans penis be entirely uncovered, it will be necessary to support the dressing in some other manner. An excellent plan, then, is to take the foot of Fig. 317. Lint dressing applied to glans penis : the prepuce brought down to hold the lint in position. an old stocking, or a bag of old muslin made large enough to hold the organ comfortably, and pin it to the front of the under- shirt. In one or another of these ways, the linen and the surround- ing parts of the patient may he protected from the discharge, while, at the same time, no ad- ditional element of irritation is added to the case. The foregoing directions all pertain to the first visit of the patient. Having told him of the importance of rest, indicated his proper diet, prescribed a diuretic mixture, and explained to him the mode of dressing the organ, it only remains to watch the progress of events, for which purpose it is well to ask him to call on you every day for three or four days. If the case belong to the third (irritative or abortive) class, all the symptoms will subside in that time; if to the second (subacute or catarrhal), the discharge will become more profuse, but no marked subjective symptoms will develop; if to the first (acute inflammatory), the phenomena already described will make their appearance, with an intensity proportionate chiefly to the less or greater strictness with which the directions given have been observed. In the first case (irritative gonorrhoea), no further treatment is required; in the second (catarrhal gonorrhoea), we may at once begin with the use of such injections as will be hereafter described as appropriate to the declining stage of inflam- matory urethritis; but if we are dealing with a case of the acute, inflam- matory variety, we must continue to watch for and treat the symptoms. Treatment of Arbor Urinbe.-—For the relief of the ardor urince and ten- dency to frequent urination, the prescriptions already given are very useful, and should be persevered in, or given in larger doses and more frequently. In addition, the patient may be instructed to immerse the penis in hot water during each urination; the extraordinary relief which this sometimes gives is probably due to the equalization of the blood-supply caused by it, the temporary distension of the superficial vessels relieving, to a certain extent, the congested and swollen mucous membrane, and thereby diminishing the resistance to the passage of the stream of urine, and the friction between it and the sensitive walls of the urethra. The liot-water bath may also serve to overcome spasm of the urethral muscles, which often adds to the suffer- ings of the patient. When the scalding is very severe and persistent, hot demulcent injections given before urination, after gently “stripping” the ure- thra, may be ventured upon, but with caution, a good general rule at this stage being to avoid the use of these remedies. An infusion of sassafras pith, or of gum acacia, or of flaxseed, may be used after being strained and warmed, and if it gives relief and is followed by no symptoms of bladder trouble, may be persisted in. In other cases it will be found of advantage to wrap the entire organ in lint, soaked in lead-water and laudanum; or better still in the following lotion:—