TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 135 by reflex irritation or by induced pathological changes in the spinal cord, it is believed by many to be the result of a peculiar form of blood-poisoning, and by others is thought to be due simply to atmospheric conditions. Tetanus is very seldom met with in connection with wounds of large nerve trunks, but is generally associated with lacerations of the peripheral filaments, especially in regions in which the Pacinian corpuscles are most abundant. It may manifest itself at any season of the year, but more frequently when there is a marked difference of temperature between midday and midnight,1 or when cold, wet weather follows a warm, dry spell. Prolonged high heat, as in tropical climates, unquestionably predisposes to tetanus, or at least favors its develop- ment. It seems to be of rarer occurrence among the wounded of modern wars than it was formerly, because, as may be properly assumed, gunshot injuries are now less irritated, and are better cared for than in previous times. Usually acute, and almost certainly fatal, it may be of milder character, of more prolonged duration, and of proportionately less mortality. Its action may be confined to a few muscles, those of the jaw being usually affected (trismus), or may be more widely exerted, producing in the great majority of cases a backward bending of the body (opisthotonos). Larrey’s opinion that the direction of the arching depended upon the location of the wound—on the back, front, or side—is believed by few, if any, of the surgeons of the present day to be correct. Death usually occurs within a few days; in half or more of the whole number of cases, within the'first five. Prognosis of Gunshot Wounds. This must, of course, depend upon the nature and location of the wound; upon the treatment adopted, and upon whether it is instituted promptly or not; upon the hygienic surroundings of the patient; and upon his general condition before and at the time of the reception of the injury. Other things being equal, the patient’s chances of recovery are better in civil than in mili- tary life, for, as Sir W. MacCormac has very truly said, the danger of gunshot wounds “often arises more from external circumstances—overcrowding, want of after-care, long transport—than from the nature of the injury itself.” Taking large numbers of wounded together, the mortality of cases coming under treatment is from 10 to 15 per cent.; but such a statistical statement is of little or no value, since the probability of recovery in any given case depends upon its particular circumstances. Treatment of Gunshot Wounds. This consists in clearing the wound from foreign bodies ; combating, as far as may be, the primary effects (pain, shock, hemorrhage); moderating the resulting inflammation; and meeting such secondary complications as^ may arise. Removal of Foreign Bodies.—From the earliest times, “immediate explo- ration” has been the rule, to the end that any foreign bodies which have 1 In his account of the Austrian campaign of 1809, Larrey wrote : “ The wounded who were most exposed to the cold, damp air of the chilly, spring nights, after having been subjected to the quite considerable heat of the days, were almost all attacked with tetanus, which prevailed only at the time when the Reaumur thermometer varied almost constantly between the day and the night by the half of its rise and fall; so that we would have it in the day at 190, 200, 210, and 230 above zero (750 to 840 F.), while the mercury would fall to 13°, 120, iqo, 90, and 80 during the night (500 to 61° F.). I had noticed the same thing in Egypt.”