552 SYPHILIS. Although the attacks of syphilitic epilepsy are usually precisely similar to those of ordinary epilepsy, yet certain differences in the character of the con- vulsions, or of the disturbances of ideation, exist at times, and may serve to aid in the diagnosis of doubtful cases. In the first place, the symptoms are less marked both as to generalization, duration, and intensity. The convul- sions are only partial. Consciousness in many instances remains intact, or is scarcely affected, and, in a word, the syphilitic epileptic attack is only a feeble representation—a shadow, as it were—of ordinary epilepsy. In the mildest form, a sudden Hash of pain is experienced in one or more limbs, followed by torpor. A more marked phase of the disease is charac- terized by trembling. A curious group of symptoms, sometimes observed, includes spasm of certain muscles of the trunk and limbs. An individual may be suddenly seized, while walking in the street, with a violent spasm of the posterior muscles of the neck, the sensation being as if the head were being driven down between his shoulders. Now and then one or another of the contractile orifices of the alimentary or air passages is affected, and the patient is suddenly attacked by agonizing dyspnoea, pharyngo-laryngismus, or oesophagismus. Now and then involuntary emission of urine or feces occurs. The convulsions of syphilitic epilepsy are irregular in appearance and char- acter. One peculiarly characteristic variety is that in which the convulsions are confined to a single limb, generally one of the arms, or to the arm and leg of one side. Consciousness is not always abolished, and the patient may, as Jullien says, be an anxious spectator of his own epileptic attack. Sometimes .there appear to be two stages to the attack, the patient being conscious during the first and unconscious during the last. In some cases torpor lasting even from one to two hours may supervene on the attack. In these cases paralysis is threatened. Subjective sensations of pain are occasionally observed. They may occur in one part or another of the body or limbs. In one case, severe pain in the testicle complicated the attacks. Syphilitic epilepsy, unlike ordinary epilepsy, does not remain at a stand- still. Left to itself, it may grow better through the relief of the causative lesion, as when a gumma of the cranium softens and opens exteriorly. Much more commonly, the attacks grow more and more frequent, and other nervous symptoms show themselves. This tendency to grow worse, and to result in disorders of intellection of one sort or another, is so characteristic of syphilitic epilepsy as to offer a diagnostic sign of the highest value. The danger of syphilitic epilepsy lies not so much in the epileptic attacks them- selves, as in the permanent morbid conditions which so often supervene. (1) There may be, in the first, place, disturbances of ideation, the petit mat of the French, characterized by vertigo, momentary or brief “absence,” ecstasy, and even temporary delirium, in which the patient may impulsively do him- self or another some severe injury. The last-mentioned condition is important from a medico-legal point of view. Independently of these symptoms, gradual diminution and perversion of the intellectual faculties may be observed. Benjamin Bell tells of a woman, twenty-six years of age, who was attacked by epilepsy after suffering severe headache. The attacks rapidly acquired extraordinary frequency and inten- sity (from four to six daily). Suddenly they ceased, and the patient became insane. She had been in this condition for two years when Bell, who had been called in to treat her for ulcers and cranial osteitis, administered mercury, and to his great astonishment saw the mental alienation entirely disappear in the course of a few weeks.