BURSTS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 705 these herniae and the normal bursae of the part is often difficult. Usually old joint trouble will be detected, and in certain cases, by appropriate position and manipulation, the contents of the sac can be forced back into the joint, which becomes distended to again relax when the hernia refills. This symp- tom, when detected with certainty, is invaluable, but the tumor may com- municate with the joint, although it cannot be emptied by pressure, since the opening may be valvular.1 The sudden appearance of one or more circum- scribed painful tumors around the circumference of an articulation, after a sprain of a joint which is the subject of chronic inflammatory changes, would clearly indicate what has occurred. Treatment.—If rest on a splint, with counter-irritation, pressure, and inunc- tion of iodine ointment, do not succeed, the case had best be left to nature. At most, a careful aspiration might be practised ; but all more energetic ope- rative treatment should be avoided, owing to the risk, nay certainty, of the joint becoming secondarily more or less involved.2 Affections of Special Burs.®. No special therapeutic directions will be given under this heading, except when the relations of the particular bursa under consideration demand a departure from the plan of treatment recommended for the different varieties of bursitis. Thus, the use of the seton, incision, or excision may be mentioned as indicated in a given case, while the exact method of carrying out the treat- ment cannot be repeated in each instance; so that the reader is referred to the sections on acute, subacute, and chronic bursitis for the more elaborate con- sideration of the modes of dealing with these conditions. All bursae which have been described, whether normal or accidental, will be mentioned; but only those, the enlargements of which are liable to ue mistaken for other diseases, or which are affected so commonly as to require special considera- tion, will be treated of in extenso. Bursae of the Head and Neck. A bursa is found in the orbit, lining the pulley of the tendon of the supe- rior oblique muscle of the eye. I have been able to find but one case of its en- largement, reported by Aston Key ; but, as he details none of the symptoms, I am unable to give any diagnostic points. It was cured by puncture with a cataract needle. There is a bursa situated over the external occipital protu- berance ; another over the external face of the temporo-maxillary joint; one behind the angle of the inferior maxillary bone ; one at the inferior border of the symphysis menti; and one behind the zygomaticus major and duct of Steno, passing beneath the anterior border of the masseter muscle, where it comes into relation with another bursa placed close to the coronoid process of the lower jaw. These two bursae often communicate, and under such circum- stances extend to the base of the cranium. The internal boundary of these twin bursae is the buccinator muscle, to which they adhere.3 Certain rare cysts of the cheek, which may extend to the base of the cranium, probably arise from an enlargement of these bursae. A bursa surrounds the tendon of the digastric muscle just above the body 1 Bryant, Manual of Surgery, 3d Amer. edit., p. 767. 2 W. M. Baker, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1877. 3 Verneuil. Bull, de la Soo. Anat., 1867, t. xxvi. p. 153 vol. ii.-—45