643 LUPUS VULGARIS. cence, the disease spreads outwards, and slowly invades new areas of healthy skin, until by growth from a single centre, or by confluence of contiguous patches, large districts become affected. It may spread in this way with a broad line of advance, forming variously shaped patches of large extent—• Lupus serpiginosus. Upon the mucous membrane, the characteristic nodular development of lupus is by no means as conspicuous or as easily recognized as upon the skin. It presents, however, brownish-red prominences, covered with gray epithe- lium, or excoriated points which bleed easily. These increase in size, or coalesce, until they form large patches, with an uneven surface which is covered with pale epithelium, or which is fissured, or in open ulceration. In the process of involution, the prominences and thickening subside, and a cicatricial sinking of the tissues succeeds. In some cases infiltration of the submucous structures, with suppuration and abscess formation, takes place. From the skin and mucous membrane, the disease may penetrate to deeper tissues, such as cartilage, tendons, etc. It is doubtful if it affects the perios- teum or bones. Lupus presents a variety of clinical appearances according to its localiza- tion. Its most common seat is upon the nose and cheeks. Upon the nose, it begins generally in the alee, and spreads upwards so as possibly to cover the whole organ, producing, in addition to its characteristic tubercles, a consider- able degree of swelling and deformity from the thick crust formation which accompanies it. After a time, the alee are frequently destroyed, either by ul- ceration, or by atrophy and shrinking through cicatrization. The disease may extend within the nasal openings, from without, or may develop primarily upon the mucous membrane there, where it may exist for years, forming crusts which constantly renew themselves, and which terminate with perforation or destruction of the septum. From the nose, the disease may spread to the forehead and cheeks, whence, in its serpiginous form, it may extend to the jaws, the sides of the neck, and the ears. It often appears primarily upon the cheek, and may remain for years as a discrete patch, from half an inch to several inches in diameter. Lupus produces great deformity about the bor- ders of the eyelids, mouth, and ears, often destroying large portions of the latter, and occasionally spreading inwards to the tympanum, and producing perforation. About the eyes, it may cause ectropion by final cicatrization, or may attack the conjunctiva and cornea. From the lips, it may extend in- wards to the gums, soft palate, and trachea,, producing destructive ulceration of their tissues, with hoarseness, chondritis, stenosis, etc. Upon the extremi- ties, lupus exhibits some of its gravest lesions and sequelae. Generally of the serpiginous form, in addition to the extensive ravages upon the skin itself, in consequence of repeated attacks of deep-seated inflammation of the tissues about the feet and hands—in the form of lymphangeitis, periostitis, caries, and necrosis—great deformity of the small bones of these parts is produced, the fingers and toes being greatly thickened, widely separated, curved, per- manently contracted, and the like. Tegumentary changes, similar to those de- scribed under Elephantiasis Arabum, may also in time affect the lower ex- tremities, wfith disease of the bones and papillomatous outgrowths. In the midst of all these most varied, abnormal tissue-changes, the true lupus pro- cess goes on with its primary tubercle and final scar formation, making in all a most complex presentation of disease. To this list of pathological con- comitants and sequelae of the affection in general, erysipelas must be added, with at times adenitis—when the disease is seated in the neighborhood of small glands—and, rarely, carcinoma. Etiology of Lupus Yulgaris.—Lupus begins almost always in childhood, rarely after puberty. It affects both sexes in nearly equal proportions, but