727 BUNION. 2 Bryant, op. cit., p. 145. flexion and extension, and above all by the voluntary contraction of the calf muscles ; on the existence of tenderness on pressure over the tendon ; and on the absence of any effusion in the tibio-tarsal joint, which would be shown by swelling in front of this articulation. A careful comparison of these symptoms with those of an abscess in this region, or caries, should render the diagnosis possible, although difficult.1 Treatment.—This does not differ from that of similar affections elsewhere, but the surgeon must bear in mind the frequency with which the disease depends on gout or rheumatism, so that the proper constitutional treatment may be instituted. McEwen has described a peculiar affection of the plantar surface of the ball of the great toe, which is evidently bursal. With no history other than that of extreme fatigue from much walking, the patient complains of a chro- nically painful condition of the part, which interferes with locomotion often to . the extent of rendering progression impossible, except by treading upon the outer side of the foot. But little swelling can be observed, and no other symptom except tenderness on pressure. There is not the slightest sign of inflammation, as in bunions. After a long time, in certain cases, a slightly greater fullness over the tender part, with obscure fluctuation beneath the deep plantar ligaments, may be observed. On two occasions McEwen resorted to puncture, giving vent to a synovial fluid. Rest, the use of fomentations, and puncture in extreme cases, have resulted in palliation, but not in cure. This affection must not be confounded with bunion, a description of which follows. In conclusion, I will say that bursae have been observed in the following situations, viz., between the end of the bone and the cicatrix, in stumps; over the surface of subcutaneous tumors; over the outer surface of the latis- simus dorsi muscle; in the thickness of the labia majora, in women who abuse coitus; at times beneath cicatricial bridles, etc. I have endeavored to make this list of bursae and their affections as com- plete as possible, but, having had to collect my data from very many scattered sources, may have overlooked some few. Finally, I may add that any peculiar habits, use of special instruments, peculiar trades, etc., may give rise to other bursae whenever the circumstances are favorable for their formation. Bunion. A bunion may be defined as an irritated, and consequently enlarged, bursa, situated over one of the tarsal, metatarso-pbalangeal, or inter-phalangeal joints, which is distorted. This bursa may be normal or adventitious. The superjacent skin is commonly the site of a corn, or at least is much thickened. Indeed, some authorities state that a bursa is invariably present “ in all old and neglected cases” of corn.2 Bunions are usually' developed over the metatarso-phalangeal joints of the great or little toes. The affection is generally induced by the wearing of im- properly shaped shoes, which tend to draw all the toes, but especially the great toe, towards the central axis of the foot. If, in addition, the shoe is too short and high-heeled, distortion is still more favored. Indeed, a shoe of this 1 The dull aching pain at the hack of the heel, experienced occasionally by adults, but more commonly by children from five to fifteen years of age, and increased by exercise, Barwell thinks is due to inflammation of this bursa.