THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 236 ature rises, during an exacerbation of fever, the albuminuria is again present, the fluctuations being due to some irritation which causes an increased con- gestion of the kidneys, from either a lessening of the surface blood or of that of the intestinal tract, or from a general increase of arterial tension. Albumen may also he found in the urine at once after the reception of a burn, with- out any increase in temperature; in fact, it appears even during the shock incident to the injury, when the temperature of the body is below the normal standard. This is well seen by an examination of the chart shown in Fig. 309. In this extremely interesting and instructive case, a girl, eighteen j'ears of age, was admitted into the Pennsylvania Hospital, May 3, 1881, with superficial and deep burns from coal oil, which involved about one-half of the surface. The temperature was then 98° F., and there was no rise in temperature until the evening of the 5th, during which time shock continued ; then the temperature rose to 100.5°, and suddenly advanced to 102.5°, 103°, and then to 108.6°, with death. The urine, drawn upon admission, showed one-sixteenth of albumen, with blood-cells, urates, and oxalates, although the temperature was but 98° F—a low temperature, which continued for two days; the albumen decreased on the third day, although the temperature had then risen to 100.5°, but the amount of the secretion was augmented ; on the fourth day, with the rapid rise in temperature, the albumen increased very markedly, and on the fifth day, the urine showed blood in great amount, renal epithelium in abundance, but no casts ; the amount of albumen bad increased to two-thirds, and the specific gravity was 1030. When death occurred, the temperature record was 108.6°. There was in this case evidently excessive renal congestion during the period of shock, which lasted more than two days; then, as the temperature rose, the albumen steadily increased, doubtless with renal inflammation, and as a result the urine showed two-thirds of albumen. The presence of albumen, it would seem, therefore, should usually be ex- pected in burns and scalds of any severity, or those occupying much extent or depth. Frost-bite and burns have so many symptoms in common, and are in so many respects alike, that I concluded to test also the urine of patients suffering from the former condition for albumen, and as the winter of 1880-81 was particularly severe, several cases of frost-bite were received and examined. The first patient to whom my attention was directed was a man forty-two years of age, who, having slept in an open freight car during a bitterly cold night, was brought to the hospital with severe congestion involving both feet and legs. Upon admission, his temperature in the axilla was 99° F., with considerable shock and notable constitutional depression. After some hours reaction appeared, when it was at once evident that the circulation was entirely obstructed in both limbs from a point just below tlie knee. The urine, upon examination immediately after admission, was found to be normal, but soon, coincidently witli the rise in temperature, became markedly albuminous, though it contained no casts. When the line of demarcation had formed, the albumen disappeared, and was not again observed. On the 31st of December, 1880, a man, thirty-nine years of age, was admitted into the Jewish Hospital, under the care of Dr. A. Schapringer, with frost-bite of both feet, 'l'lie parts were discolored, sensation was absent, and bullae had formed. On ex- amination by heat and nitric acid, the urine showed albumen, and its specific gravity was 1021. The albumen continued present in the urine for several days, and then disappeared. Falk says that “ the inflammation of the kidneys and other organs con- secutive to extensive burns of the surface of the body is unquestionably pro- duced in the same way as the nephritic inflammation which is due to