717 ANTERIOR BURSA? OF KNEE AND VICINITY. Sub-quadricipital Bursa.—Effusion into this sac gives rise to a swelling of variable size, which bulges out on either side of the rectus tendon. At first sight it closely resembles acute synovitis of the knee. The swelling is painful and fluctuating, and may give rise to marked constitutional reaction; but it is situated above the patella, the upper border of which is its lowest limit, while the two distended fluctuating pouches which in synovitis of the knee- joint are found on either side of the ligamentum patellae, are absent. The difference is most evident in the erect posture. The patella is not elevated and floated off from the patellar surface of the femur, and in consequence the characteristic tap against the latter bone, observed in synovitis, with the subsequent recoil after the removal of pressure, cannot be elicited. The diagnosis must depend upon the recognition of these symptoms. Treatment.—When simply inflamed,the treatment recommended for bursitis in general is all that is necessary. Should suppuration occur, aspiration should always be preferred to incision, since this bursa very commoidy communicates with the joint in those of advanced years, while such a condition has been observed even in the young. It may not be possible to empty the bursal con- tents into the joint, owing to the valvular nature of the opening, so that the most prudent plan is in all cases to aspirate, except when the condition of the skin renders it probable that the opening made by the trocar will ulcerate, when the knife under antiseptic precautions may be resorted to. Some one of the bursae in the region of the knee—-and these remarks are equally applicable to other joints—is usually the starting-point of the periarthritic suppuration which so often results in serious injury of the articulation, and occasionally in its destruction. Proper treatment and free opening, thus insuring drainage, will usually prevent damage. The differential diagnosis between intra-articular and peri-articular suppuration mainly depends upon the form assumed by the swelling, and upon whether the patella is floated off from the femur or not. Pre-patellar Bursa.—This may or may not be of ante-natal formation.1 This bursa is often traversed by imperfect partitions, and there may be two or more separate sacs. The septa becoming thickened and more vascular, when the bursa is inflamed or irritated, may be ruptured, accounting for some of the blood found in the effusion, and for the rolled-up masses of threads, either attached or free, which are so commonly noticed. Owing to its position, which exposes it to falls, pressure, and friction—in house-maids, stone-masons, reli- gieuses, etc.—this sac is more commonly enlarged than any other. Both the acute and chronic forms are often due to the effusion of blood, which under- goes manifold changes and gives rise to various grades of inflammation. The term “house-maid’s knee” is applied to chronic enlargement of this bursa, from its frequent occurrence among domestic servants abroad, although not in this country. Traumatism usually sets up an acute bursitis.2 Acute Bursitis of the Pre-jpatellar Bursa.—This subject will be treated of somewhat in detail, as suppuration, both in the case of this bursa as well as in that of the others surrounding the knee, is thought by most authors to be the starting-point of peri-arthritic suppuration. When the pre-patellar bursa is acutely inflamed, the anterior aspect of the patella presents a more or less tense, tender, fluctuating swelling, the skin over which is much reddened. The pain is often of a violent, lancinating character. After a few days the 1 Hamilton’s Surgery, p. 469; also A. Pineau, Etude sur les Epanchements des Bourses Sereuses Sous-cutanees. Paris, 1866. 2 Angeioleucitis has been known to give rise to suppurative bursitis. Pineau, op. cit.