413 CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. which it is seated. The tissues upon which the ulcer is planted are entirely devoid of the induration which is generally found in the syphilitic variety; they are perfectly natural to the touch, except when this lesion is accom- panied by very acute inflammation. They are then infiltrated with serum, and the base of the ulcer has a brawny, doughy feeling, which may simu- late the induration of the initial lesion of syphilis. But a little care will prevent error, for the induration of the chancre lias sharply defined limits, while the brawny base of the chancroid has not, but gradually loses itself in the surrounding tissues. This oedematous condition is less likely to be con- founded with the induration of syphilis than is another variety of infiltration not infrequently met with in chancroids, and more particularly those of long standing. This infiltration closely resembles the parchment variety of indu- ration, which is the only one likely to be confounded with it; but even here, in the large majority of cases, the educated fingers detect a want of clearness and sharpness of outline, which stamps it as something different from the “ chancre a l’induration parcheminee.” Supposing, however, that the differential diagnosis should still be in doubt, auto-inoculation will settle the point, for this variety of ulcer is capable of reproduction upon the bearer of the lesion, the pus of the original sore giving rise to a similar sore by inoculation, while the secretions of syphilis are prac- tically non-auto-inoculahle. In the very great majority of cases, however, the base of the chancroid is absolutely soft; hence formerly, and even now to a certain extent, this ulcer was called the “ soft chancre,” to distinguish it from the initial lesion of syphilis, which was called the “hard chancre.” But in time it was observed that some soft sores—very few, it is true, but nevertheless some—were fol- lowed by subsequent manifestations, and this revived the old dispute about the local nature of soft sores of the genitals. The fault was really one of nomenclature, not one of the nature of the lesions under observation; hence the tendency among syphilographers is to abandon the terms “soft venereal ulcer” and “chancroid,” while the ulcer which heretofore has been called “chancre” is now generally well known as the “ initial lesion of syphilis.” The Simple Venereal Ulcer has an Irregular Floor, and is attended with Profuse Discharge.—The floor of this form of ulcer is one which differs from that of its congener. If we bear in mind that the simple venereal ulcer is eminently destructive in its nature, and that wherever it gains entrance beneath the outer covering, be it skin or mucous membrane, its action is corrosive, while syphilis during its early stage is not, we shall at once see the reason for the irregular, worm-eaten appearance of the bottom of the ulcer, for the dirty-yellow exudation which lines it, and for the copious amount of pus which it secretes. This is due to necrosis of the tissues, caused by what most syphilographers have, for want of more definite knowledge, called the virus of the chancroid, but which is probably nothing more than in- tense inflammatory action. The walls of this simple venereal ulcer are worthy of notice: they are clean cut, judging from external appearances, giving the ulcer the look of being punched out of the tissues; but upon closer examina- tion this clean-cut aspect is found to be only apparent, for the edges of the lesion are undermined. This is owing to the tendency which all chancroids have to burrow, destroying tissue faster below the surface than above it; hence the real extent of these ulcers is usually larger than appears at a casual glance. Here, then, are three important points in the physical aspect of the simple venereal ulcer, viz: the absence of induration of the base; the irregular yellow-looking floor, and the abundant secretion. But there is one other