455 GENERAL PATHOLOGY. Fournier1 gives the following striking analysis of the “drama” of the ap- parition and development of syphilis. First Act : Contamination. The virus penetrates the organism by one mode or another. First Interval : Apparent repose of the organism—incubation. Nothing appre- ciable betrays the disease as yet. Second Act : Production at the point where the virus has penetrated, and only here, of a lesion called initial, which for the time constitutes the only expression of the disease. Second Interval : Another period of repose of the organism. The initial lesion continues to be the only symptom by which the disease is expressed. Third Act : Explosion of multiple and disseminated lesions, beyond and outside of the seat of contamination. This is the period of visible generalization of the disease. Syphilization.—Between the years 1844 and 1850, Dr. Auzias Turenne, of Paris, brought forward and urged a theory of the prevention and cure of syphilis by means of “syphilization,” asserting that repeated and successive inoculations of the syphilitic virus would produce in animals and men a syphilitic saturation, and, as a result of this, certain immunity from a second infection of the same virus. Following him, Sperino, of Turin, as a result of numerous experiments, maintained that repeated and successive inocula- tions of the syphilitic virus, carried to saturation, would procure .not only immunity against the infection of this same virus, but would also serve to cure the various syphilitic manifestations, initial as well as generalized. At the time this theory was brought forward, no clear distinction was made between the virus of chancroid and that of syphilis. We now know that, while the chancroid is auto-inoculable, the unirritated chancre is not at all, or rather only very rarely, inoculable on the individual hearing it. Auzias Turenne, and those who shared his belief, usually inoculated the chancroid, and, finding that after repeated inoculations the sore could no longer be repro- duced, concluded that the individual was saturated with syphilis and incapa- ble of infection. He proposed syphilization as a prophylactic measure to be employed upon the community at large, and his earnest, impassioned, and persistent advocacy of his peculiar views gained for them an amount of atten- tion which, in the present state of our knowledge, it is difficult to understand. At present we know that the inoculation with venereal virus can have but two results, either (1) the individual experimented upon is already syphilitic, in which case the inoculation, if made with syphilitic virus, will be without effect—inoculations made with chancroidal virus, however, being capable of indefinite repetition; or (2) the individual is free from syphilis, when the first inoculation of syphilitic virus will give him the disease; he will be in the same category as the former individual; and further inoculations will be without effect, while, as before, chancroidal virus may be reinoculated indefinitely. "Boeck, of Christiania, was the most illustrious disciple of Auzias Turenne, and worked for years at the subject, finally compassing sea and land to make converts to his views, which were everywhere received with attention, fully investigated, and—rejected. Put to the test of careful observation by disin- terested investigators, the theory of syphilization was found to have absolutely no foundation in fact, and with the death of its enthusiastic advocates, Auzias Turenne and Boeck, the theory also died out completely.2 1 Lemons sur la Syphilis. Paris, 1873. s For a fuller exposition of the theory of syphilization, the curious reader may refer to Bum- stead’s work (3d edition), and to Report of Cases treated at Charity Hospital (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1870). Also to the original papers and works of Auzias Turenne (De la Syphilisation ou Vaccination Syphilitique. Arch. Gen. de Med., 1851, 4e s6r. t. xxvi.); Sperino (La, Sypliilisa-