282 ULCERS. iodine every day for a week, covering the limb with a poultice as soon as the alcohol has evaporated. Another method of softening this dense tissue is to make incisions down to the deep fascia, in lines radiating from the margin of the ulcer and extending to the border of the indurated tissue, following this with a dressing of glycerine and absorbent cotton as above indicated. Still another method of getting rid of the induration is by the use of Martin’s elastic bandage, applied to the limb so as to cover the ulcer and its hardened sur- roundings. After the removal of the induration about and beneath the ulcer, a solution of chloral, or a weak solution of chloride of zinc or of carbolic acid, may be applied on linen and covered with oiled-silk secured by a bandage; or some stimulating ointment may be used. Here, too, the method of Baynton, by strapping, may be brought into play with excellent effect. Aided by habitual cleanliness, the ulcer may be thus brought to the stage in which, if very large, grafting alone can complete the cicatrization. The indolent ulcer occurring in the laboring classes, may also be treated successfully while the patient is permitted to pursue his usual avocation, pro- vided he will (as he usually will not or cannot) follow the instructions given by his physician. On returning from work in the evening, let the limb be soaked in warm water for an hour or more, and then wiped dry; let a thick, wet cloth be applied to the entire indurated portion ; and let this he covered with oiled silk and a bandage. In the morning, let the part be carefully washed, and let a clean cloth of linen or old soft cotton, folded until it is half an inch or more in thickness, be applied wet to the indurated portion, or still better around the entire limb, and let this be covered with oiled silk and secured by a well-applied bandage. Let this course be pursued, changing the dressing night and morning, and soaking the limb in warm water every night for an hour, until the scaly epithelium has disappeared, and until the indu- rated tissues about the ulcer have become softened. By the time that this is accomplished, say in the course of a week or ten days, the ulcer will have become clean, its edges will be less elevated, and granulations will appear. When this condition is presented, strapping with adhesive plaster will greatly facilitate the healing; the method of Martin, by the use of the elastic bandage, will, however, be found far more practicable in patients of this class. After an indolent ulcer of the leg is finally healed, the scar-tissue easily breaks down again, either from local injury or in connection with depraved health; therefore, to guard against a reopening of the old sores, the general health should be carefully looked to, and the limb should be pro- tected by some sort of shield. A very convenient and efficient plan is to powder the limb well with dry starch, envelop it thickly with cotton-wool, and cover this with a well-applied starch or dextrine bandage strengthened by longitudinal or spiral strips of thick manilla paper ; this should be worn until it begins to soften, and should then be replaced by a fresh covering of the same kind. Hemorrhagic Ulcers. These can hardly be said to form a distinct class, but a tendency to hemor- rhage should be regarded as a special condition that may be associated with any ulcer. In the healthy ulcer, in which granulations are rapidly forming and the immediate vascuiar supply is abundant through the rapidly-forming new blood-channels, as yet without separate or special walls, blood may easily escape; the pus may then be simply tinged by its color, or the flow may be so free as to constitute a hemorrhage. In such a condition, by the use of mild