701 'syphilitic affections of bitrsa?. the various text-books and journals a few cases can be found, which will be spoken of in their appropriate places.1 Syphilitic Bursitis.—Syphilitic bursitis attacks the tendinous bursse more frequently in women, in contradistinction to gonorrhoeal bursitis, which affects more often the opposite sex. The subcutaneous bursae, however, seem to be equally affected in both sexes, although as traumatisms sometimes act as ex- citing causes, this equality may be more apparent than real, since men are more exposed to such accidents than women.2 The tendinous bursae most com- monly attacked are those of the sartorius, semi-membranosus, biceps cruralis, and biceps brachialis. Of the subcutaneous bursae, the pre-patellar, and that over the olecranon, are the most often diseased. Usually there is a pre- existing gouty or rheumatic taint.3 The gravity of the affection is, as in the other phases of syphilis, in direct proportion to its stage of development. Thus, the further advanced syphilis is, the more profound will be the pathological changes detected. During the secondary period these will be superficial, amounting merely to a chronic, or, more rarely, subacute congestion of the serous and subserous tissues, accom- panied or not by a serous effusion. The latter occurs habitually in the chronic form, and presents nothing different from that seen in chronic bursitis. When the effusion is slight, crepitation may be elicited by pressure. Ter- tiary syphilitic bursitis seems to be confined to but a small number of bursae, viz., the sub-quadricipital, the pre-tibial, pre-patellar, those of the patte d’oie, the sub-tricipital, and a few others. Here the sac walls are thickened and lined with false membrane. In cer- tain cases a fibroid induration occurs, the bursal enlargement starting as a hard, slowly growing, painless nodule. At times there is a genuine gummatous degeneration of the walls, resulting in a complete effacement of the sac- cavity. Both in this condition and in that just described, where inflammation, either spontaneous or traumatic, arises, sloughing en masse often occurs. Gummata, if not removed by specific treatment, pass through the ordinary stages of formation, softening, and ulceration. Reasoning by analogy—since such appearances have been observed in the joints, and since sensations which would indicate similar conditions have been felt in diseased bursae—-the gummatous stage may not be reached, but ovoid, indurated, elastic patches, situated in the serous, or in the subserous and adja- cent fibrous tissues, may be developed. M. Verneuil and others have described cases of a fungous hypertrophy, before referred to, affecting such bursae as those of the inner ham-string tendons, which in these cases are enveloped in a mass of granulations. The walls of the sac may be destroyed, and even neighboring joints may be opened into. This form of bursal enlargement can only be diagnosed by noting that the fluid removed by tapping is bloody, and filled with floating particles. Subacute Form..—This is an excessively rare affection sometimes met with at the outset of the secondary period. There may or may not be general symptoms. A slight tumefaction exists, with reddening of the skin, if the bursa be superficial. The pain is usually marked, and at times may be violent, and it is provoked by pressure or movement. There is more or less interference with the movement of the part. There is but little effusion, and crepitation can be felt when the tendon plays over the bursa. The dura- 1 For much of the information contained in this section, see Chouet, De la Syphilis dans les Bourses Sereuses, etc. Paris, 1874; and L. Moreau, Des Affections Syphilitiques Tertiaires des Bourses Sereuses. Paris, 1873. * Chouet, op. cit., pp. 7, 8. 3 Mauriac, Edin. Med. Journal, vol. xxi. pp. 275, 448.