GONORRIKEA. 342 in the great majority of cases, when taken in conjunction with the evidence obtained by experiment, are quite sufficient to explain the production of the epididymitis in the manner indicated. The first symptom which attracts the attention of the patient is an aching, occasionally a neuralgic pain, along the line of the groin, more frequently on the left side.1 It the cord be taken between the thumb and finger at this time and rolled gently so as to separate its constituents, the vas deferens will be found enlarged usually to but a slight degree, but sometimes to three or four times its normal diameter; it will also be tender on pressure.2 Sometimes, but rarely, it will be insensitive, and in this event, in many cases, the inguinal pain will prove to be simply neuralgic in its character, and no further trouble will result. If the inflammation progresses, however, and the epididymis is involved, this preliminary pain is soon followed by a feeling of weight and a dull ache in the affected testicle, which begins to increase in size and rapidly becomes of great bulk, purplish in color, and exceedingly painful.3 (See Plate VII. Fig. 1.) The nauseating quality possessed by this pain is peculiar to it, and serves greatly to aggravate its unpleasantness. The patient, particularly if the testicle be not supported so that its weight is withdrawn from the cord, will walk in a slightly stooping posture, with the legs apart—a straddling, constrained attitude which is almost pathogno- monic of this ailment. The dragging of the heavy tumor upon the spermatic vessels prevents the free return of blood from the testicle and serves to in- crease the tension, and by additional pressure upon the nerves to add to the pain, which in some instances spreads by reflex agency to the loins, abdomen, 1 Jullien has collected 2158 cases of epididymitis, of which 1011 were on the right side, 982 on the left, and 165 double. (Maladies Veneriennes, p. 104.) “ Of 1342 cases observed by Sig- mund, of Vienna, the left testicle was affected in two-tliirds.” (Bumstead and Taylor, Treatise on Venereal Diseases, p. 133.) 2 M. Terrillon (Bull, de la Soc. de Chirurgie, 1881, No. 2) details four different degrees of in- flammation of the vas deferens observed when the disease is experimentally excited : (1) Mucous membrane alone attacked ; (2) More frequently muscular walls also involved ; (3) Cellular tissue of spermatic cord affected ; (4) General connective tissue and scrotum inflamed. He thinks that the sole theory of epididymitis which is at all tenable is that which ascribes it to propagation of the inflammation along the ejaculatory ducts and the vas deferens. 3 In exceptional cases, a patient with gonorrhoea having a complete inguinal hernia, or having accidentally received a blow on the scrotum, may develop a painful tumor of the scrotum, about the diagnosis of which some difficulty will exist. The following table of Mr. Christopher Heath very well represents the differences between the gonorrhoeal complication and the other diseases for which it may be mistaken :— Strangulated Hernia. Suddenly produced, or, if pres- ent before, suddenly strangu- lated ; Pain in groin and about abdo- men, with considerable con- stitutional depression and anxiety of face; Tumor tense, and giving the sensation of intestine when manipulated ; skin normal ; Impulse on coughing to be felt along the groin, in which there is more fulness than usual, but ceases abruptly at the point of strangulation Percussion over tumor gives a clear sound unless the pro- trusion is omental; Vomiting probably present, continuous, and eventually stercoraceous. Hematocele. Suddenly produced by some external violence; Pain in scrotum and consti- tutional disturbance, slight after the first few minutes ; Tumor tense and heavy, globu- lar in shape, and not trans- lucent ; skin often bruised ; No impulse in groin, which is perfectly normal. Percussion gives a dull note ; Vomiting immediately follow- ing the accident, but not continued. Orchitis or Epididymitis. Developed a few hours after a blow or following gonorrhoea; Pain in scrotum and along the cord to the loins ; feverish disturbance of system ; Tumor excessively tender to the touch ; cord thickened ; skin reddened ; No impulse on coughing; Percussion gives a dull note ; Nausea and faintness, hut sel- dom vomiting.