663 PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. selves fully protected against the dangers of the barber’s shop. After an indefinite period, varying from a few weeks to many months, it may be after the primary or circulate manifestations have apparently disappeared under treatment, the spores in many cases find their way to the depth of the hair follicles, and the second stage is developed. Second Stage. (Parasitic folliculitis, or Sycosis.)—This is a most obstinate affection. It begins in the form of small nodules about the hairs, in some portion of the skin previously run over by the disease. These nodules slowly enlarge, and may discharge from their tips pus, which dries and forms crusts about the hair. In later stages, the nodules and pustules may be converted into large, prominent tubercles, which, by suppuration, may give rise to thick crusts; or large excoriated surfaces may he established. The tissues of the skin surrounding the diseased follicles may become involved to a great depth, causing extensive induration, swelling, and disfigurement of the parts. The disease may thus progress gradually over the hairy portions of the face, for months and years, producing, if the folliculitis is excessive, permanent de- struction of the hair growth. It is not always easy, however, to distinguish Tinea sycosis from the non-parasitic folliculitis, and from eczema of the same parts. Generally, the morphological changes are much more grave in the parasitic form; its clinical history, moreover, will almost always establish the fact of a pre-existent ringworm ; and the microscopic examination of the hairs removed from the least inflamed follicles, will discover the presence of the fungus. In eczema of the bearded face, the inflammation is not limited at first to the tissues immediately surrounding the follicles, and the serous oozing, suppuration, and crust formation, are not centred about individual hairs, but affect uniformly the surface involved. The infiltration of the tissues, too, is more general and diffused, not nodular. These three affections of the bearded face are often confounded under the common title of “barber’s itch.” Onychomykosis.—-Tinea of the nail remains to be described. Occasionally some one or more of the nails of persons affected with any of the above forms of the disease, or of those having the daily and long-continued care of such patients, lose their transparency, become opaque and dry, and gradually thicken. Their surface appears rough and cracks easily, and their free edge is blunted. Their substance becomes brittle, and flakes oft' superficially in the form of scales. Such cases form one variety of onychomykosis, of which favus of the nails is another. Microscopic Appearances.—Microscopic examination of the scaly matter scraped from the surface of the skin in any of these forms of disease, shows innumerable round spores or conidia, °f an inch ai diameter, arranged in groups or rows, and, sparingly interspersed with them, long and branching tubes of mycelium. In the affected hairs removed from the beard and the scalp, we find the spores between the sheaths in enormous quantities, and the cells of the cortical substance distended and forced apart by the parasitic growth. It will be readily seen why a hair permeated by the fun- gus should become brittle and break off with a splintered fracture just above or below the surface of the scalp. In the flattened cells of the affected nails, long chains of conidia, more or less branched, spores, and a few slender tubes of mycelium will be seen. The plant which produces this affection has been called Trichophyton. Contagion.—The sources of contagion in all these forms of the disease are various. Of the habitat of the plant, outside of its parasitic life upon ani- mals, we know nothing. It is probable, from its more frequent occurrence