GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 314 traced to fatty embolism. When the quantity is not large, we may have merely an inflammation from this cause. Symptoms of Embolism.—The symptoms that mark the occurrence of em- bolism may be stated to be, in general terms, a suspension or modification of the function of the part. When in the extremities, the arrest of the circu- lation is instantaneous; the surface becomes pale and cool, and while a cer- tain numbness is found in the skin, the pain is severe and intractable. The progress of the ensuing gangrene is not uniform—sometimes slow, but at other times rapid. I recall a case that went on to the destruction of finger after finger, the loss of tissue being arrested for a while, a red line forming, and giving delusive hopes of final cure, but the disease going on in this way again and again. Sloughs were removed, and the parts amputated at the points indicated by nature, but the gangrene was still renewed, and recovery was only obtained by amputation at the shoulder-joint. In another case of embolism following pneumonia, with gangrene occurring in the leg, the red line was but imperfectly formed at the end of three months. Amputation was performed at this time, but death occurred at the end of six days. This very slow progress is not characteristic of gangrene from embolism; it is more often rapid. Treatment.—If certainty of the exact point where the arrest occurs could be obtained, immediate amputation would be clearly indicated, as in cases of rapid traumatic gangrene. But this may be regarded as impossible, and we are necessarily relegated to the rule of waiting for the red line, and of not hastening the operation until we see clearly nature’s intent. During this painful waiting, we certainly have few resources. The principal indication is to maintain the temperature, as in senile gangrene. Warm applications, a little above the normal heat, are employed ; they should be dry, as cotton and wool. But the experience of relief, on the part of the patient, is the surest guide. In the case of the arm, above mentioned, the patient found flannels heated far above this standard the most comfortable. Of course, the removal of sloughs not touching the living tissue is clearly indicated. Disinfectants must be employed, for the comfort of the patient. Furuncle or Boil. This small hut painful inflammation of the skin, of which almost every one has some personal experience, rapidly forms a slough, unless aborted in its very earliest stages. The exact initial point at which the inflammation com- mences is still subjudice, while there is good reason to believe that it may be in the sebaceous glands. This opinion derives some color from the fact stated below with reference to superficial irritations as a cause. Symptoms.—The first evidence of the existence of a furuncle is shown by a small point of inflammation, which produces a hardness underneath the sur- face of the skin, feeling somewhat the size of a small pea. This gradually increases with a rapidity a little different in different constitutions, but seldom acquiring a size greater than half or three-quarters of an inch when at its height. This terminates in a small slough, saturated with pus, usually of a greenish-yellow color. An opening, through which the pus makes its way, takes place in the skin, as the result of the pressure, small, brown, and an eighth of an inch in diameter. During the first stages, while the destruc- tive process is going on, arid before the evacuation of pus through this minute opening, the pain, tenderness, and soreness are so characteristic as to