69 ASEPTIC SURGERY AND LISTERISM. ing paragraph. Indeed, so good have the results become in ordinary cases treated antiseptically by one or other of the methods mentioned, though not asepticnlly (that is, on the Listerian principle),1 that some surgeons are in- inclined to the view that aseptic surgery is unnecessary in a great many cases, being only required for certain special operations. This view is, however, erroneous and mischievous, for by no method other than the aseptic method have infective diseases been entirely abolished ; in cases treated by otherforms of antiseptic surgery, they occurevery now and then, and the surgeon cannot leave their possible occurrence out of account in determining the expediency of an operation. That certain operations are only justifiable when full precautions are taken to exclude micro-organisms, is now admitted by all. Such opera- tions are incisions into joints, opening of psoas abscesses, operations on healthy bones—as for ununited fracture, etc. That such operations are perfectly safe when done with proper aseptic precautions, is also abundantly proven. As the aseptic method can protect the patient under these circumstances, it can also protect him in ordinary cases, and, therefore, if one desires to be perfectly certain of avoiding infective disease in any given case, he must employ the aseptic method. But. as it is the duty of the surgeon to prevent every pos- sible risk in every case, it is, therefore, his duty to employ aseptic treatment whenever he can. And even supposing that the other methods were perfectly reliable in ordinary cases for the purpose of saving life, there are other ad- vantages in the aseptic method which require its employment. By its use the patient is often saved a great amount of pain, and healing is very rapid and certain; while, on the other hand, patients treated in other ways, if they do recover, often do so only after a severe struggle for life. Many other advan- tages might be mentioned, but these I need not detail here.2 In speaking and thinking on this subject, great care must be taken to dis- tinguish between Asepticism and the Aseptic Method. Asepticism is synonymous with Listerism; it is the great principle, first enunciated by Mr. Lister, that the causes of fermentation in wounds are particles from the outer world, and that in order to abolish the risks due to fermentation in wounds, the proper method of treatment is to prevent the entrance of the liv- ing causes of fermentation into them. The aseptic method is synonymous with the Listerian method. It is the best way at present known of securing this result. When, as of late has happened, Mr. Lister gives expression to the view that perhaps the time is not far distant when some of the means at present employed in his method may be abandoned, the cry is raised that “Listerism is dead.” Such an idea rests on mis-appreciation of what Lister- ism is. Listerism or asepticism is a great principle which has triumphantly withstood the most searching tests, and which is now a law of the first importance to the practical surgeon. The Listerian or aseptic method is the best means at present known of carrying out that law in surgical practice, but the means have always been improving, and must always continue to improve. The time may indeed come when the method shall have under- gone an entire alteration, but, nevertheless, the principle underlying it will always remain the same. Whatever changes may occur in the present Listerian method, Listerism will always remain the most fundamental prin- 1 As will be evident from what has gone before, there are a variety’of forms of antiseptic surgery, that is, of wound treatment directed against the causes of fermentation, and the method used by Mr. Lister for the total exclusion of micro-organisms, is only one form. To retain the term “ an- tiseptic surgery” for this method alone, is to introduce confusion, and it seems better, therefore, to abandon it, and to speak of Mr. Lister’s method as the aseptic method, for it aims at, and suc- ceeds in, excluding the causes of fermentation altogether from the wound; that is, it renders the wound aseptic. 2 For full details on these and other points, see my work on “Antiseptic Surgery ; its Princi- ples, Practice, History, and Results.” London, 1881.