004 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. be used in the following manner.1 The surface is covered with diachylon plaster, from which a button-hole has been cut out, of the length of the tumor, and of one-quarter its width. A coating of the paste, diluted with alcohol, is then laid upon this opening. After fifteen or twenty minutes, the paste is carefully and wholly removed. In two or three weeks the eschar is detached, bringing with it the shrivelled and mummified cyst. After a few days, the large and deep opening cicatrizes, and leaves behind only a small linear scar. Molluscum Contagiosum. (Synonyms: Molluscum sebaceum ; Epithelioma molluscum (Virchow); Condyloma subcutaneum.)—Under these titles, there have been described by different writers, small tumors of the skin, the identity and true nature of which have long been the subject of controversy. They are semi-globular, conical, or flattened prominences, of the same color as the skin, sometimes shining and transparent, sometimes warty in appearance. In size they vary from that of a pin’s head to that of a large pea. They generally present a minute opening at the tip, or, when large, an umbilical depression, which gives them a resemblance to the efflorescence of varicella. Their seat is most commonly the face, neck, or genitals, but the}7 may appear upon nearly all parts of the body, and in numbers varying from one or a few, to a hundred or even more. Their growth is generally slow, and their course chronic; they may at times disappear spontaneously. Their presence is un- accompanied by any disturbance of sensation of the part, except when they are accidentally the seat of inflammation, by which they may be destroyed. They are observed more frequently in children than in adults. If one of the growths with a visible opening be firmly squeezed between the thumb nails, its contents may be pressed out in the form of a fluid, creamy material, which consists of epithelial cells, fat globules and crystals, and certain larger, irregu- lar, ovoid, shining bodies, some of which are enveloped in a thin epidermal covering. These peculiar bodies have been called molluscum corpuscles, and are regarded as epithelial cells, the protoplasm of which is in a state of amy- loid degeneration. They are not peculiar, however, to these growths. If one of the tumors be examined in section, its structure will be seen to be multi- lobular, like the sebaceous glands, and to contain a central cavity. The peri- pheral cells resemble those of the rete, and are arranged like them in super- imposed layers. It is on this account that several authors regard these growths as belonging to the rete and not to the sebaceous system, among the affections of which they are usually classed. It is in the central portion that the peculiar large cells are found. Clinically, Kaposi divides them into the encysted form (Molluscum atkeromatosum), and the wart-like variety (Mol- luscum verrucosum). As to the property of contagiousness, implied in the specific title bestowed upon this affection by Bateman, observers are still at variance, and the ques- tion may still be regarded as an open one. Those who support the theory of contagion, offer numerous facts concerning which there is no doubt: that the disease has been frequently observed at the same time upon the face of an infant and the breast of its nurse; that it has affected several members of a family in succession; that the entrance of a child, thus afiected, into a hospital or foundling asylum, has been followed by the appearance of these growths upon its nearest fellows, etc. On the other hand, there are no perfectly satisfactory successful experiments by inoculation, to support this view, although nega- tive results in this direction are of little positive weight, because the requi- site conditions for successful transference of the possibly inoculable matter Misset, Etude sur la patliologie des glandes sebacees, 1872.