DISEASES OF THE CELLULAK TISSUE. 684 very painful and tender to the touch. When the finger is introduced into the rectum, a hard, well-defined swelling will be felt high up in the right side, and posteriorly. Chills and rigors, as in other cases, indicate the formation of pus, and these signs of purulent formation may be accompanied by a perceptible and rapid increase in the size of the tumor, without fluctuation. Indeed it is almost impossible to detect fluctuation on account of the thickness of the walls which inclose the pus, and the additional covering made by the abdo- minal muscles. If left to nature, the pus may make its exit through the rectum, or into the colon high up, or it may rupture into the bladder or peritoneal cavity. It generally makes an opening in the wall of the rectum. This is the most favorable road that the matter can take, such cases often terminating in re- covery. If the abscess ruptures into the peritoneal cavity, the accident may be recognized by the occurrence of a sharp pain at the seat of rupture, tym- panites, vomiting, and collapse. It is always fatal. If the pus perforates the rectum, there will be a purulent discharge per anum, accompanied by a sudden diminution in the size of the tumor. When the bladder is perforated, which is a rare occurrence, pus in considerable quantity will be distinguished in the urine. Treatment.—If a diagnosis is made early in the case, castor oil should be given in quantities sufficient to produce several large evacuations from the bowels. The colon near the seat of inflammation often contains hard masses of fecal matter, which aggravate by pressure all the unfavorable symptoms. Free catharsis, therefore, is in nearly all cases necessary. An ice-bag may then be applied to the part, and a large dose of quinine given internally. Should the inflammatory symptoms continue in spite of these measures, and the swelling be well defined in the iliac region, an incision should be made without any further delay. As the purulent matter is altogether external to the peritoneum, and as the latter is not involved in the operation, there is little or no danger attending it. The incision should be made over the highest part and centre of the tumor, parallel with Poupart’s ligament. It ought not to exceed three inches in length, on account of the tendency to hernial protrusion when the abdominal walls are weakened by larger cuts. From two to three inches is sufficient for all purposes. When the integument and aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle have been divided, it will facilitate matters if a hypodermic syringe is introduced into the tumor, to determine the exact locality of the pus. If the syringe is inserted before the parts mentioned have been cut, it will be hard to find the purulent collection. When the syringe is withdrawn, the cutting may proceed in the same direction as the external incision, and of a similar length,until the cavity of the abscess is reached. The discharged pus lias usu- ally a strong fecal odor, and an examination of it may determine the nature of the foreign body which excited the inflammation. The abscess is to be thoroughly cleansed with a 1-40 solution of carbolic acid, a drainage-tube inserted, and the edges of the wound drawn together with a few catgut sutures. In some instances it is necessary to leave the wound open for several days in order to keep it free from all purulent or fecal col- lections, or to pack it from the bottom with carbolized charpie after every washing. A full dose of opium may be administered after the operation, and qui- nine in moderate doses may be given daily until the wound has completely united. In cases where the peritoneum has been opened, I believe it would be good practice to cut down on the abscess, open the peritoneal cavity, and