ULCERS. 284 nous vein; an habitually loaded colon may diminish the calibre of the iliac veins by pressure; an omental hernia occupying the crural canal may retard the return of blood through the femoral vein; or a weak heart, or valvular disease of that organ, may render the general circulation sluggish. Especial inquiry should be made in regard to these possible causes and complications, and, when found, they should be corrected as far as may be practicable. An occasional mercurial purge, conjoined with measures tending to maintain a constantly soluble condition of the bowels, and aided perhaps by the use of muriate of ammonium, may assist in removing pressure from the vena-cava and iliac veins ; a tumor or enlarged gland pressing on the great saphenous vein may, perhaps, be removed by the knife; confining the patient to his bed and to a restricted diet, conjoined with well-adjusted pressure, will frequently enable us to reduce an old incarcerated hernia, and thus free the femoral vein from compression; digitalis will increase the tone of the heart, and strengthen the general circulation; the capillary circulation may be improved by small doses of opium; while the general tone of the system may be raised, and the tissue changes hastened, by the use of iron and strychnine. Strapping, uniform elastic pressure, and skin-grafting, are especially valuable in healing these ulcers; while to prevent a recurrence, continued uniform pressure is generally necessary. This can be best accomplished by the elastic bandage. Hilton recommends that the patient be required to sleep in a bed the foot of which is elevated, so that during the whole night the legs may he kept higher than the body, and the venous return thus assisted by gravitation. Special Points in the Treatment of Ulcers. Although in connection with each of the special types of ulcer, a plan of treatment has been suggested, it seems proper that some of the measures re- commended should be more fully described, and that the attention of the reader should be directed more particularly to their methods of application, and to the purposes to be accomplished by them. Blisters.—It is a matter of common observation that m indolent, callous ulcers, or in varicose ulcers of this type, an intercurrent attack of erysipelas may set up a train of processes that greatly facilitates the healing of the sore. So also a burn or a scald, or some caustic application, may excite an inflammation of a more active character in and about the ulcer, and thus materially hasten the absorption of the indurating material which dams up and retards the cir- culation, and so prevents repair. A large blister applied to an ulcerated limb —large enough to cover the entire indurated portion—will excite a more rapid flow in the sluggish blood current, and also establish a drain through the skin, by which the serous elements of the infiltration will be carried off and the induration lessened. But the benefits of such stimulation are not confined to the drawing off of the serum, for the rapid flow of blood hastens also the tissue-disintegration by which the more solid matters are broken down and absorbed. It is possible, too, that through its influence upon the vaso-motor system of nerves, a blister applied to a limb may influence the rate of flow through the bloodvessels. By acting upon the nervous system, blisters also hasten the general circulation. Whatever theory we may adopt regard- ing the mode of action, it is certain that the reparative and disintegrating changes in an ulcer are influenced by the application of a blister, and that ulcers often speedily heal after such an application when other measures have been used in vain for months.