SYPHILIS. 484 system of some patients, during the early evolution of syphilis, is comparable to that induced by severe hemorrhages. There are palpitation of the heart, ten- dency to syncope, asthenia, languor, loss of appetite, etc., all of which are closely connected with nervous d isturbance. In women, the various nervous manifesta- tions of syphilis, from simple neuralgia to intellectual perversion of various kinds, are much commoner than in men. It is characteristic of all the various nervous disturbances of early syphilis, that they are essentially transitory. The later nervous manifestations show a very different aspect. Sensory dis- turbances, such as dizziness, dilatation of the pupils, amblyopia, ringing in the ear, earache, and deafness, are not uncommon. Insomnia, without any ascer- tainable cause, is also a nervous symptom occasionally observed. The cephalalgia of early syphilis—by which is understood a deep-seated pain in the brain, and not the pain situated in the bony tissues or the men- inges—is a common and stubborn symptom, occurring to a greater or less degree in almost every case of syphilitic disease. It is usually experienced in the frontal protuberances, the temples, or the occipital region. In its lightest forms it is only perceived as a feeling of discomfort, which does not prevent the patient from attending to his ordinary avocations. In a severer form, it takes the aspect of a headache, so severe as to interfere with mental occupation and to prevent sleep. In rare cases, it assumes extreme severity, causing agonizing and unbearable pain. Patients describe the sensation as of lancinating pain, or as if the head were being squeezed in a vise or struck by the blows of a hammer; the pain is continuous, but with nocturnal exacer- bations. This form is rare. The intermittent variety is of more frequent occurrence. Here the pain comes on at the approach of night and passes off in the morning. Left to itself, the cephalalgia of early syphilis may pass away in a few days, or it may last indefinitely. Mercury exercises a com- plete mastery over it, and, vigorously employed, will bring speedy and com- plete relief. It is best given in the form of fractional doses of calomel, or by inunction, by which method its effects are most rapidly produced. (See under the general treatment of syphilis.) Iodide of potassium is also useful. The general disturbance of the system caused by syphilis often induces the outbreak of some latent neurosis, or the exasperation of a pre-existing neurosis. This is especially the case with hysterical and epileptic patients. Occasion- ally the syphilitic poison develops hysteria or epilepsy in individuals pre- viously completely exempt from either of those nervous affections. Hysteria may suddenly appear, with all the usual symptoms of fixed or erratic painful sensations, loss of strength, syncope, spasms, and convulsive crises. Epilepsy of a transitory character, but presenting no especially characteristic symp- toms to denote its origin, may also develop. The diagnosis in this latter case is difficult, but it should be borne in mind that all cases of epilepsy, occurring for the first time at adult age without any perceptible cause, must be strongly suspected to he of syphilitic origin. In addition, however, it should be remarked, as indicating the syphilitic origin of this manifestation, that the crisis is incomplete, and the spasm limited to a single side. The coexistence of other cerebral symptoms, particularly cephalalgia, and of characteristic cutaneous eruptions, will also point to the true nature of the affection. Epilepsy is not very rare in early syphilis; Diday and Little have observed it in the third and fourth month respectively. The exact pathological char- acter of the lesions which give rise to these cerebral symptoms has not as yet been ascertained. They are to be distinguished from the later syphilitic brain-troubles which will be discussed further on in this article. Analgesia, general, or more frequently in scattered areas, is one of the curious nervous phenomena which are met with in the early stage of syphilis. It is a somewhat rare affection, and is almost always symmetrical. It may