CARCINOMA. 649 children, has recently been satisfactorily explained by a study of the nerve tissues of the affected parts. The endoneurium of the nerves leading to the seat of disease has in all cases been found to be thickened, while their sensory and nutrient fibrils have been found wanting or degenerated. The larger or motor fibrils are unaffected. In consequence of these changes, the nutrition of the parts is destroyed, and the tissues supplied by them undergo degenera- tion. The disease may, therefore, begin within, as well as upon the surface. Similar ulceration of these structures has in fact been observed in consequence of diseases of the nerve-tissues, in anaesthetic leprosy, locomotor ataxia, and progressive muscular atrophy, and in cases of compression of nerve trunks and of the spinal cord. Injuries of the peripheral nerves may in this way account for the occurrence of perforating ulcer after contusions of the feet, as has often been observed. We must regard the affection, therefore, as pri- marily one of the nervous tissues, either of central or of peripheral origin, and all other changes of structure as secondary to, and dependent upon, disturbed nerve action. This explains the frequent and persistent recurrence of the disease in its cutaneous manifestations, after these have been healed by pro- longed rest of the parts, and its repeated return after excision of all the ap- parently diseased structures. The prognosis is therefore doubtful, as there can be no certainty of a permanent cure. Treatment.—By prolonged rest of the limb in a horizontal position, the ulcer or orifice in the integument may often be made to heal, in the early stage of the affection, only to establish itself again, however, in most cases, when the part is used. Excision of the soft parts, or amputation of the toes, or of even more extensive portions of the foot, has often been followed by equal want of success. It is apparent that, to be radical, such an operation should include also the whole of the diseased nerve tissue, that is all the parts which are anaesthetic. As a palliative method, it has been suggested that the pa- tient should wear an artificial leg attached to the bent knee, so as to con- stantly relieve the foot from all pressure or jar. Carcinoma. Under this general term may be included all forms of cancer of the skin; that is, new growths of the cutaneous tissues which have a malignant course, and which are characterized by collections of proliferating epithelial cells, arranged in alveolar form, or in tubular, bulbous, or dendritic shapes, within meshes of fibrous tissue. These forms are epithelioma, connective-tissue cancer, and melanotic cancer. Epithelioma. (Synonyms: Cancroid ; Epithelial cancer ; Rodent ulcer.)— Epithelioma presents three quite distinct clinical varieties: the flat or super- ficial form; the deep-seated or nodular form; and the papillomatous form. Superficial Epithelioma.—This form of the disease is better known as Rodent ulcer. It begins as a minute, firm, yellowish or red prominence, or as a group of such prominences arranged in a line or cluster, which may exist in this inconspicuous form for a considerable period. Sooner or later, the growth becomes slightly scaly on its summit, and subsequently softens at its tip, and is excoriated, giving escape to a little fluid, which dries upon it into a yellowish or brownish crust. The scale is frequently removed intentionally, or by accident, only to form again, becoming thicker each time, while the nodules very grad- ually increase in size. It may continue in this condition for years, scarcely