GONORRHOEA. 368 probably, increases the liability to subsequent stricture. In such cases nothing is so effectual as the free abstraction of blood from the perineum by means of leeches. From a healthy adult, eight or ten ounces should be taken, and for the next day or two he should occupy a strictly recumbent position with the hips elevated. He will usually be found at this time much more amenable to reason as regards the necessity for rest. Among the lower classes, it is well to caution patients against the practice of “ breaking” a cliordee, by which is meant placing the penis on a hard substance and striking it a blow with the clenched hand. This has the effect of causing the erection to disappear, but also of rupturing the trabeculae of the erectile tissue and the walls of the congested vessels, and of tearing or breaking up the new deposit which gives rise to the chordee. It is almost always followed by traumatic stricture, and, it is needless to say, is not a justifiable procedure. Upon the occurrence of chordee it is best to urinate, to walk around the room for a few moments, and then to go to bed, lying on the side. The practice of placing the organ on the marble slab of a washstand or on some other cold surface is objectionable, because, when reaction occurs, and is increased by the warmth of the bed, other much more violent erections are apt to follow. M. Glaudot, following Dr. Scarenzio, recommends as preferable to all other resources in troublesome chordee, the hypodermic injection into the perineum of from one-fourth to one-fifth of a grain of morphia. This should be given just before the patient goes to bed, and after being used on four or five successive nights, may be stopped with a strong probability that the chordee will not return. M. Glaudot thinks that the good effects of the morphia thus used, are due entirely to its local action, as no narcotism, not even sleep- iness, was produced in any of his cases.1 Hill recommends thirty grain doses of chloral. Diday orders lupulin in half drachm doses mixed with an equal quantity of sugar, and in obstinate cases advises that a small pad of cotton soaked in chloroform should be applied to the area of greatest pain for several minutes. I have used ipecac- uanha in small, nauseating doses, in cases in which other remedies had failed, but without much success. More recently Cambrillard has recommended the following injection for chordee :— Bromide of potassium, 6 parts. Tincture of opium, 2 parts. Purified glycerine, 10 parts. Distilled water, 150 parts. To be used four times daily, and retained in the urethra from two to three minutes each time. Mauriac uses:— Syrup of digitalis, 50 grammes. Syrup of morphia, 50 grammes. Bromide of potassium, 20 grammes. Tablespoonful each evening, in a cupful of chamomile tea or other convenient vehicle. Suppositories of cacao butter each containing one gramme (15.4 grains) of chloral, may be used instead.2 This general plan of treatment should be persisted in while the symptoms are those of increasing inflammatory action, that is during the first eight or ten days. When they cease to grow more and more severe, or especially if they begin to subside, the first evidences of which will usually be diminution in the degree of ardor urinae, it becomes proper to employ local medication, for which purpose injections are beyond all comparison the best agents. Soluble Bougies.—The use of soluble bougies, even in the earliest stages, is so strongly advocated by some writers, that it seems worth while to allude ’ Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic, from Archives Medicales Beiges. 2 Saint Louis Clinical Record, March 1882, from Deutsche med. Zeitung.