718 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS,®. redness, which was at first circumscribed, becomes diffused, and some oedema is observed. Occasionally, when no history of a blow can be elicited, marked ecchymosis may appear, extending down even to the ankle. Although there is no absolute rule on the subject, inflammation arising from traumatism does not usually show itself for from twelve to forty-eight hours after the injury. The knee is usually somewhat flexed, movements of either flexion or exten- sion being painful, or at least difficult. Fever, headache, furred tongue, and confined bowrels, are quite common. Acute bursitis may terminate by reso- lution or suppuration, or may pass into the chronic form. Acute suppuration has even terminated fatally from septicaemia. Caries of the patella from suppurating bursitis, which resulted, after operative interference, in suppu- ration in the joint, has been once observed by Erichsen.1 When acute bursitis of this sac arises from gout or rheumatism, resolution is the rule. Under such circumstances the onset of the disease is violent, but it subsides quickly, perhaps to again recur. Diagnosis.—In a case of moderate severity this is easy, but when dealing with a very marked bursitis, the question of diffuse cellulitis arises. The cor- respondence of the tumor with the site of the bursa, its manifest fluctuation from the outset, and the distinct interval between the injury and the appear- ance of the swelling, are the most reliable points.2 The rapid appearance, disappearance, and perhaps reappearance of the disease, coinciding with mani- festations of gout or rheumatism elsewhere, indicate its dependence on sys- temic causes. Treatment.—Local antiphlogistic measures, aided by constitutional reme- dies (for rheumatism, etc.), if so indicated, should be prescribed.3 * I woidd caution against the use of the knife, unless pus is certainly present, as death has thus more than once resulted. The presence of pus, unless by the use of the exploring needle, can only be positively determined by the skin becoming purplish and red, and thinning more and more. When pus is present, free incisions must be made, as they must also when phlegmonous erysipelas super- venes, in which case a supporting treatment must be instituted, with iron, quinine, etc. When the bursitis is due to gout or rheumatism, alkalies, sali- cylic acid or the salicylates, colchicum, etc., must be exhibited. Chronic Bursitis*—True hygroma of this bursa, as before defined, does sometimes occur, but the more common form of “ house-maid’s knee” is really either an acute or a chronic bursitis. In the latter case we find a5 firm, tense, hemispherical tumor, which projects from the anterior surface of the patella. It may reach the size of a foetal head, but more commonly is not larger than a small orange. Usually confined to the anterior surface of the patella, it may project beyond, overlapping this bone, and coming into close relation with the anterior surface of the joint-capsule. If the walls are only moderately thickened, and if the sac is not too tensely filled, fluctuation is readily detected. Hot uncommonly the walls are so thickened that the growth simulates a solid tumor, which is only proved to be cystic when, after removal, a section is made, revealing a larger or smaller central cavity or cavities filled with some kind of fluid. Slight stiffness and interference with extreme flexion are commonly complained of, or a sense of soreness after prolonged exercise. Tumors, solid from the outset, are met with here, but 1 Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 335. 2 Nelaton, quoted by Pineau, op. cit. s See page 693, for details. 4 For a detailed description of the pathological anatomy, appearances, degenerations, etc., see opening portion of this article. 5 A. Pineau mentions a case of M. Leroy’s, where three closely related tumors existed. (Op. cit.)