INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAS. 720 similarly treated, no good resulted. Hamilton’s patient died after the intro- duction of a seton. Bursa of the Semi-tendinosus, Sartorius, and Gracilis Muscles.—The bursa common to these, which may be prolonged between the tendons—or the separate sacs which are occasionally found between any two of them—may become enlarged. The French call these tendons the “patte d’oie.” When suppuration occurs, tedious and troublesome sinuses sometimes result. This is one of the most commonly affected bursse in tertiary syphilis. Popliteal Burs.®. Enlargements of these bursse are of special interest to the surgeon, because they, even more than synovial hernise, are apt to be mistaken for aneurisms. In fact, notwitsthanding Mr. Bryant’s assertion to the contrary, a recent writer of experience declares that, after all, the chief point of difference in certain cases is merely that the distensile impulse is not as powerful as would be ex- pected in a thin-walled aneurism free from any deposition of clot. Still, with care such a blunder can be avoided. Suppuration in these bursse has resulted in contraction of the knee from cicatrization. It will be well to first enume- rate the bursse normally present here. Special attention should be paid as to which do and which do not usually communicate with the knee-joint, as upon the answer to this question depends largely the nature of the treatment which should be pursued. From their connection with the tendons, these bursse are necessarily situated along the internal and external borders of the popliteal space. There are but two at the inner side of the ham. One, the largest, is situated between the inner condyle of the femur and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, together with the semi-membranosus, between which muscles it sends a process. It extends from the posterior inferior part of the internal femoral condyle to the back of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, reaching even as low down as the upper border of the popliteus muscle. The outer border should not be detectable beyond the head of the gastrocnemius, while its inner por- tion extends beneath the tendon of the semi-membranosus. It is occasionally more or less subdivided into a moiety for each of these two muscles. After adult age it usually communicates with the knee-joint. The second internal popliteal bursa is found between the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle and the internal tuberosity of the tibia, is obliquely situated, and is of small size. At times it communicates with the bursa previously described, and still more rarely, yet occasionally, with the knee-joint itself. Externally, four bursae are usually met with. One, which will be found between the popliteus tendon and the external lateral ligament, does not usu- ally, although it may, communicate with the joint; a second, however, placed obliquely between the tendon of the popliteus and the external tuberosity of the tibia, does so communicate, being, in fact, but a diverticulum of the synovial capsule of the knee. In a large proportion of cases, this large bursa also opens into the superior tibio-fibular joint. The remaining two bursse are by no means constant, although of frequent occurrence. One is situated above the head of the fibula, being interposed between the biceps tendon and the external lateral ligament of the knee joint. The external popliteal nerve runs along this bursa, a circumstance which may explain some of the pain experienced from its enlargement. The fourth and last is, wThen present, placed between the external condyle of the femur and the external head of the gastrocnemius. Its place is often taken by a prolongation of the bursa between the popliteus