BERI-VENOUS CELLULITIS. 677 may be left in the bath during the whole course of the disease, both before and after the incisions are made. The water should be changed twice in twenty-four hours, and the sinuses and incisions thoroughly syringed each time. In the chronic form of simple cellulitis, frequent rubbing with oleate of mercury, and strapping, are all that is necessary in the way of local treatment. Cod-liver oil and iron should be given, and a strong diet, until the disease is cured. Circumscribed Simple Cellulitis. The most common forms of circumscribed cellulitis which come under the care of the surgeon are, as already mentioned:— Peri-venous cellulitis. Peri-arthritic cellulitis. Ischio-rectal cellulitis. Peri-urethral cellulitis. Peri-phalangeal cell ul i tis. Peri-csecal cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis. Peri-Venous Cellulitis, erroneously denominated suppurative phlebitis, is a comparatively rare form of disease, and, with the exception of peri-ciecal cellulitis, is much graver in its consequences than the other varieties. The gravity of peri-venous cellulitis arises from the close proximity of the inflam- mation to the venous channels, and to the destruction of the walls of the veins, through the absence of their supply of nourishment in consequence of the small vessels which supply the walls with blood being pressed upon and closed by the inflammatory exudation. The destruction of the walls of the veins allows pus and other forms of degenerated material to enter the general circulation, and thus excite pyaemia, which not infrequently accompanies this form of cellulitis. Peri-venous cellulitis, like other forms of cellular inflammation, is likely to occur in persons whose vitality is depressed, and who, while in that state, are accidentally or surgically injured in the neighborhood of a vein. It may ac- company any form of injury or operation on the extremities, but is especially apt to accompany lacerated or torn wounds. It usually commences around some of the smaller veins, and extends upward to the larger branches until the main trunk is reached. The inflammation travels with great rapidity, and death of tissue occurs sooner than in any other form of simple cellulitis. The exudation of inflammatory material is similar to that previously de- scribed, and the pathological changes generally are the same, with this excep- tion : coagulation of blood occurs in the veins, consequent upon obstruction to the circulation through them; and the oedema of the extremity, at a dis- tance from the seat of inflammation, is due to the same cause. Symptoms.—The symptoms usually are not well marked during the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours. During that period there are some pain and swelling of the affected part, not well defined. On the third or fourth day the redness is increased, and the swelling and hardness reach their maximum over and around the venous trunk. The exudates around the vein and the coagulum within the vein make the whole feel like a cord under the integument. If the vein is deep-seated, a diagnosis may be made by noting whether the inflammation follows or does not follow the course of* a vein. As before stated, the exuded materials and the tissue in which the inflam-