442 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. originally was a superficial and mild ulceration. Besides this, a proper use of the cautery hastens the cure, and any means which does this should be used, no matter though it may not appear absolutely requisite. Application of Caustics.—If caustics are to be applied, certain points should be carefully attended to in order to make their use effective. Selecting the one which is most active, it should be applied not only to the apparent surface of the sore, hut should be carried beneath its edges, and into sound tissue to the extent of from an eighth to a sixth of an inch, or further, if the undermining process is extensive ; in other words, the entire extent of the ulceration must be thoroughly destroyed, else the healthy ulcer left after the cautery is apt to become contaminated with the matter from those portions which have not felt its action, and the inflammation then commences anew, and spreads over a broader area. The old remedies known as Ricord’s and Canquoin’s pastes have lately fallen into disuse, and their employment pre- sents no advantages over simply cauterizing the ulcer with the liquid caustic, and applying cold water dressings, while it has the decided disadvantage of concealing the chancroid from view, and thus preventing the surgeon from knowing what is going on beneath the crust which is formed. The simpler and more effective is the agent employed, and the more accessible is the ulcer to the inspection of the surgeon, the speedier will a cure be brought about, inasmuch as the applications may then be made with sufficient frequency to insure the substitution of a healthy action for the morbid inflammation. Subsequent Dressings.—The subsequent dressings are those which are continuously used in the intervals between the cauterizations. Of these the dry are infinitely to be preferred to the wet dressings. Iodoform is the agent most deserving of praise in this connection, the only objection to its use being the pungent and penetrating odor which it possesses. Many sub- stances have been suggested for the palliation of this defect, the last agent for this purpose being chloral-hydrate, but none of them can claim a great degree of success. Perhaps the best manner of correcting the odor is to instruct the patient not to scatter the powder upon his hands or clothing ; if due attention be paid to this point, this disagreeable feature of a valuable drug may be materially modified. Besides the iodoform, the impure oxide of zinc, and powdered tannin, mixed with some inert powder like bismuth or lycopodium, in the proportion of one part of the active agent to three of the inert, is often of service. These dressings should be applied several times during the day, the ulceration being carefully bathed in hot water before each fresh application. After the preparation is dusted on, the part may be protected by the super-position of charpie or of Davison’s prepared absorbent cotton, which makes an excellent dressing. Of the wet dressings, solutions of carbolic acid are the best, but the objection to their continued use is that they are apt to macerate the epithelium of healthy tissues sur- rounding the sore, to harden circumjacent parts, and to render the sore indo- lent and flabby. Another excellent dressing, and perhaps on the whole prefer- able to carbolic acid, is what is known at Charity Hospital, Blackwell’s Island, as the “ nitric acid wash,” which is simply a fluidrachm of the chemically pure nitric acid dissolved in a pint of water. Should this produce burning and pain in the ulcer for more than three or four minutes after its applica- tion, it may be diluted; otherwise it should be kept up to the standard prescribed. Under its use, the surface of the sore loses its grayish look and becomes covered with healthy granulations ; the purulent discharge ceases ; and the edges of the wound fill up. When this point is reached, the wash may be discontinued, and dry dressing substituted. In the treatment of this