313 GANGRENE FROM EMBOLISM. An unusual motion of the heart suddenly drove it into the mouth of the aorta, where it was found, having produced instant death. The walls of the arteries of the extremities, and indeed throughout the whole system, are liable to atheromatous deposits, when the irregular points which they present may become the means of separating the fibrin, and of thus forming a plug which may close the vessel at the point of its origin, or may be broken off and swept along to its place of final lodgment. Besides these causes, there are occasionally tumors and growths external to the artery, which by occluding its calibre and perhaps causing, by the increased flow of blood at the point, an abrasion of the epithelial surface, produce fibrinous clots. In studying the movements of the embolon in the aortic system, we find that it follows the direction of the principal trunk, and that it is rarely lodged in a vessel which passes off at right angles. For. this reason, it is seldom found in the carotids, but reaches arteries below, especially the iliacs and their branches. That embolism should produce a different result in the large and small arteries, is not to be wondered at, and it is found that its results are in fact various. If in a large artery, and if the plugging is complete, the condition is identical with that produced by a ligature, and is marked by similar signs. But it often happens that the obliteration is incomplete, and that a certain quantity of blood passes through the vessel, the circulation being diminished, but not entirely arrested. Hence opportunity will be given for the develop- ment of anastomosing branches, and although the plug may afterwards enlarge so as to entirely occlude the vessel, the circulation beyond may be restored. A sudden closure at the same point might result in gangrene. In addition to these primary emboli, we have those which are secondary. The new formation is susceptible of disintegration, and then particles of a smaller size are carried further along in the circulation, playing their special role in the production of infarctions, and still further taking on the character of cicatricial tissue, or exciting inflammation which develops into abscess. This is indeed the explanation offered by some pathologists of “ metastatic abscesses.” When we consider the action of these smaller clots in closing up minute vessels, we are led to believe that the cell ceases to live, and may undergo a double change. If protected from atmospheric influence, it is simply removed by absorption, and the tissue formerly supplied by these closed vessels takes on a semi-cicatricial character. Such spots of contracted tissue are found in the liver, spleen, and kidneys, and may be fairly attri- buted to the process described. Or it may excite the inflammatory process, which now produces exudates with all their consequences. It is undoubtedly true that clots are far more likely to enter the circula- tion in the veins than in the arteries, and we might infer that the injury from such clots might fall exclusively upon either the liver or the lungs by the arrest of the emboli in their capillaries. But the arterial circulation is by no means protected by the capillary systems of these great organs. Minute clots will pass through them, and enter the arteries, where they may grow by accretion; or they may undergo fatty degeneration or be redissolved, and entirely disappear. It is perhaps impossible to make a positive diagnosis during life of embolism in the smaller vessels. Fat Embolism.—There is also a form of embolism arising from oil globules which, passing into the circulation, become entangled in the capillaries of the lungs, which may be considered as not only established by observation, but confirmed by direct experiment upon animals. The sudden death that sometimes follows fracture, especially of the neck of the thigh-bone, may be