FROST-BITE. 253 Frost-Bite. The term Frost-Bite is employed to designate those local conditions result- ing from the application of cold, which are both more painful and more serious in their consequences than the lesser varieties which we have hitherto considered. The effect of cold in producing destruction of tissue may be either direct or indirect; more frequently the latter. At first stimulating, the secondary effect of cold is to depress both circulation and nervous power, this depression, if continued for any length of time, so reducing normal vitality as to produce that condition known as frost-bite. The part may be frozen, and yet recover by moderate care ; or may be so frozen as to be beyond normal restoration. One of the very first indications of the approach of frost- bite is a sense of numbness, associated with a well-defined loss of power, and of acuteness of feeling. This loss of power is usually first developed in the fingers and toes; the parts most remote from the centre of the circulation and of heat production. [Fremmert, of St. Petersburg, has published some very interesting statistics of frost-bite, by which it appears that in 333 of 494 cases, the lower extremities alone were affected ; the upper extremities alone in 105 cases; and both upper and lower extremities in 38 cases. In 12 instances, other parts of the body were involved as well as the extremities, while in only six cases did the extremities entirely escape. The great toes and little fingers were much more commonly affected than any other parts, and the right side of the body more frequently than the left. Men suffered twelve times as often as women, and the most susceptible period of life ap- peared to be between the ages of 30 and 35. The mortality among Frem- mert’s cases was 8.5 per cent., pyaemia and septicaemia being the chief causes of death. As many as 222 operations were performed upon 134 patients, 15 of whom endured major amputations of one or more limbs.] A sense of weight about the affected parts, and a feeling of tingling, indi- cative of gradually diminishing nerve power, are not unusual symptoms in these cases. The frost-bitten parts, when closely examined, are found to have become white and bleached-]ooking, and are thus readily distinguished from the adjacent normal structures. The icy coldness of the affected tissues, when they are touched, and their complete loss of sensation, can hardly fail, in our low northern temperatures, to suggest the nature of the case. The part frozen beyond recovery, or “frozen to death” as it is usually termed, at first blanched, cold, and insensible, soon becomes discolored and swollen, and gradually passes into a contracted or shrivelled condition ; chemical changes follow ; a line of demarcation is formed; and the dead and living tissues are ultimately separated. We have in Canada frequent and forcible illustrations of the unaided amputating powers of nature, in the cases of such frost-bitten persons as remain for weeks in the “ lumber shanties,” prior to being removed to hospital. Constitutional Effects of Cold.—The constitutional effects of cold are first stimulating, and subsequently depressing. The circulation is at first increased in force and frequency, and this is associated with a glow of the surface, and with an exhilarated state of the system generally. Shortly after- wards, a sense of pain and uneasiness is experienced ; the body gradual^ be- comes benumbed and cold ; a sense of drowsiness, simulating the action of a narcotic, steals over the system, and an almost irresistible desire to sleep overtakes the individual, who thus frequently slumbers and dies. During this period, the blood settles in the internal organs; nerve power declines; the respiration becomes heavy and labored; and death takes place, much as