295 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. essential difference between ulceration and gangrene, the former being merely a cell-death, so slowly carried on that the tissue becomes converted into fluid, and is thus washed away with the exudate from the blood which now appears upon the surface. As a result of the retention of the exudate, commencing a process of organization, we have a heightened capillary circulation, and the color changes from the dark hue to a paler one, and then to a red, the last being the condition which clearly marks the arrest of gangrene. This red line, looked forward to by the surgeon, is of course produced by the return of the true circulation. The various tissues have different powers of resist- ance to the spread of gangrene; the loose connective tissue, by permitting the poisonous exudates to enter it with facility, gives way more easily than others. The aponeuroses and tendons also, from their feeble vascularity, seem to have less power of resistance than the skin or muscle, and hence it is a very common thing to find the fascia of muscles dead at a point consider- ably above the line of demarcation either in them or in the skin. Varieties of Gangrene. The different appearances which gangrene assumes have led to subdivisions which sometimes indicate the cause. Inflammatory gangrene is preceded by the condition of inflammation, in which the part is red, hot, and swollen. The stasis here becomes absolute, and the tissue passes from red to purple, and afterwards to the ashen hue or black, when sphacelus is reached. This form is a variety of moist gangrene. But moist gangrene (Plate IV., Fig. 8) does not necessarily arise from the in- flammatory process. It may occur when the obstruction is from pressure that distends the veins without compressing the arteries, as from too tight bandaging. The tissues become swollen and distended by exudates, which rapidly decompose, with abundant, fetid, fluid discharges. But even when the arterial circulation is not entirely cut off, but only diminished, we may have moist gangrene occur, as in the senile form, though the opposite condi- tion of dry gangrene is here more common. Dry gangrene (Plate IV., Fig. 2) is caused by such an insufficient supply of blood as to destroy the vitality of the part, and yet not load it with fluids which would prevent it from contraction. It therefore takes on a shrivelled and mummified appearance. The portion affected, as the foot, retains its form and shape in consequence of the unchanged condition of the bones, but the soft parts are shrunken and corrugated, and emit a sound like parchment when struck, the whole acquiring a deep black color. It is not always neces- sary, however, that this form of gangrene should be the result of an insuffi- cient supply of blood, as in senile gangrene, or when it results from embolism. Traumatic causes, as when severe pressure has been brought to bear upon a limb, though usually resulting in the moist form, will sometimes present very perfect specimens of the dry. It may therefore be seen that these forms of gangrene do not necessarily present sharp lines of separation, and that the condition depends chiefly upon the quantity of fluid retained in the tissue, which, in the moist variety, carries on the processes of decomposition more rapidly than in the drier forms. Treatment of Gangrene. The treatment of an inflammatory condition verging towards gangrene, does not differ from the treatment of inflammation generally; but it must be