GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE KNEE. 167 U. S. A., in 1868, the man three years later “ could walk almost as well as ever.” Dr. Mursick’s patient, four and a half years after an intermediary operation, could perform all the movements of the thigh “ with almost as much facility as in the normal state—rotation, even, as well as flexion, exten- sion, adduction, and abduction. Ilis general health was good. He still worked as a day laborer.” In the present state of knowledge, it certainly seems the part of wisdom, in cases of hip wound, to make an exploratory incision as soon as possible, and, if the damage has not been such as to preclude any reasonable hope of doing good, to excise the broken bone. Ho benefit can be derived from leav- ing, as has been done, an uninjured femoral head in the acetabular cavity, when the neck is taken away; necrosis would certainly follow. Ordinarily, the long, straight or angular incision, from above downwards, along the poste- rior border of the trochanter major, will be found most convenient. If the patient must be moved, the joint should be immobilized; but if he can be treated at the place of operation, the dressing may he conducted aeeording to any one of the several methods which are employed in civil practice after excision for disease. Gunshot Injuries of the Knee. Of more frequent occurrence, and of hardly less gravity, than wounds of the hip, are those of the knee-joint, which may be either penetrating or non- penetrating. The latter undoubtedly occur, oftentimes, when the apparent line of direction of the shot lies through the articulation, the missile having- been deflected by the periarticular structures and the joint proper may not be opened, even though the patella has been broken, or the head of the tibia bored through. Such a tibial perforation, which is not very seldom seen as the effect of a round ball, may be caused by the passage of a pistol bul- let, and, though not very often, even by that of a conoidal musket-ball—the chassepot bullet being the only one used in the Franco-German war which produced such an injury in the cases observed by Beclier. Usually, whether the shot has passed through or lodged, there is associated Assuring, and, if not primary, at least secondary opening of the synovial pouch, in which case violent symptoms of joint injury may not manifest themselves until several days after the receipt of the wound.1 2 Penetrating injuries, whether made by small or large bullets, are in a high degree dangerous, not only to the part but to life itself, the usual gravity of lesions of the knee-joint being greatly increased by the more extensive damage which is always characteristic of gunshot wounds. Expectant Treatment.—Until recently, the expectant treatment has re- sulted badly, except when the vulnerating body has been of small size, its removal easily effected, and the bone-splintering limited; and when circum- stances have permitted of most judicious care under favorable personal and hygienic conditions. “ In no single instance during the Crimean war” (ac- 1 MacCormac reports that he had under his care, during the Franco-German war, twenty-one such cases, of which only two proved fatal. 2 A typical case, in which a soldier was accidentally shot with a small revolver-ball in the street of Balaklava, was reported from the Crimea. “The missile had embedded itself in the tibia, just below its tuberosity, whence it was easily turned out by a pointed instrument, after a small incision had laid the site open. The knee-joint did not appear to have been involved, but the man died eight days afterwards from the effects of acute inflammation of it, and the accompanying sympathetic fever. On examination after death, a minute fissure was found to have extended through the head of the tibia into the joint.” (Matthew.)