SYMPTOMS AND COMPLICATIONS OF SECOND OR STATIONARY STAGE. 339 and of the muscular elements, which so frequently takes place in advanced life.1 An acute prostatitis may run into a chronic condition which is very annoy- ing and intractable. The same symptoms exist in a modified and much subdued form; the pain is replaced by a sense of weight and fulness; mic- turition is rather too frequent, and is feeble, the last drops dribbling from the meatus; a mucoid discharge like the white of raw egg, but occasionally milky, may be squeezed from the urethra by deep pressure from behind for- ward, and the same discharge appears at the meatus after every evacuation of the rectum. By examination through the latter, the gland is found to be somewhat enlarged, and slightly tender on firm pressure. As it is desirable in this as in some other cases, hereafter to be described, to ascertain the character of the discharge and also the exact locality of the inflammation which furnishes it, it may be well to have recourse to a bulbous bougie, it being remembered that in this condition the acute symptoms have subsided, and that there is but little danger of re-kindling the urethritis. The bougie, the head of which should be large enough comfortably to fill the urethra, should be passed down to the junction of the spongy and membra- nous portions, and then withdrawn. If it bring with it, as it probably will, some muco-pus from the anterior part of the urethra, this should be wiped ofi, and the instrument again inserted as far as the neck of the bladder. On removing it, a quantity of the prostatic secretion will usually be found upon the shoulder of the bulb. Pain is generally excited by the contact with the instrument, and the degree of sensitivenfess will furnish a valuable indication for treatment, and should be carefully observed. The mental symptoms associated with this trouble are often the most dis- tressing. They will be alluded to again when we come to consider the sequelae of gonorrhoea. Cystitis.—A greater or less involvement of the neck of the bladder is often a concomitant of acute prostatitis, and is indicated by increased urinary trouble and by the appearance of a drop or two of blood at the end of micturi- tion. This prostato-cystitis, which is the form of bladder trouble usually encountered in gonorrhoea, may subside under treatment, or may pass into a well-developed inflammation of the mucous membrane of the vesical neck. In this case (Gonorrhoeal Cystitis), we have certain well-marked symptoms, chief among which are very frequent urination, the patient not being able to retain his water for more than a few moments, and the desire to expel it becoming intense and irresistible on the slightest delay ; excessive vesical tenesmus at the end of the act, which is characterized by severe burning pain instead of a sense of relief; blood and pus following the stream of urine, the latter part of which is turbid or milky. There are few constitutional symptoms, little or no fever, no rigors, and but slight deterioration of the general health unless the disease runs a protracted course. The diagnosis between prostatitis and cystitis, which are the only complica- tions of gonorrhoea likely to be confounded, may be made by attention to the following points:— 1 “ Zeissl believes that in every case of chronic gonorrhoea there is moderate tumefaction of the prostate. Individuals who have very frequently had gonorrhoea, or in whom gonorrhoea has persisted for a long period, are said to be the subjects of a considerable enlargement of the pros- tate in their thirty-fifth year or even younger, the growth being due to the persistent hypersemia of the part during the prolonged urethritis.” Among 2041 cases of gonorrhoea admitted into the Antiquaille Hospital of Lyons, under the care of Dron, prostatitis occurred only three times. (Hill and Cooper, op. cit., p. 530.) This is certainly an unusually small number, and in all probability must have been due to a failure to recognize the disease, or to its classification under some other name.