662 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. follicles. (In Alopecia circumscripta, which resemblies Tinea tonsurans in con- figuration, the surface of the patches is perfectly smooth, free from scales, and almost wholly devoid of hair stumps.) At the borders of the patches, among the hairs not yet fallen, a rim of slight scaliness may he seen, where the early stage of the affection is in progress. There is seldom any redness or other sign of severe inflammation, in ordinary cases, but occasionally deep- seated inflammation of the hair follicles, with swelling and prominence of the skin, arises. A viscid fluid is discharged from several openings, and the whole elevated patch feels boggy. This condition is called Kerion. The course of the disease after it has attained its second stage, parasitic folliculitis, is always chronic; indeed, it may last for years, and extend over large por- tions of the scalp, which may be almost completely denuded of hair during the activity of the affection. Permanent baldness, however, seldom ensues, whatever the duration of the disease, unless the inflammation is so excep- tionally severe in parts as to destroy the hair follicles. Such destruction, the result of small abscesses, is always very limited, and occurs mostly in chil- dren of strumous or debilitated habit. The absence of moisture, or crusts, in Tinea tonsurans, serves to distinguish it from eczema and favus, which, with seborrhoea, are the most common diseases of the scalp in youth. To distinguish it from the latter, and from other scaly affections of the part, the circumscribed baldness will be generally sufficient. For reasons not well understood, this form of Tinea trichophytina seldom affects adults, although ringworm of the face in men is not an uncommon affection, thus affording prolonged chances of its transmission to the scalp. With children, however, the disease is not of infrequent occurrence, especially in asylums where the most favorable opportunity for contagion prevails in the common use of brushes, combs, and towels, and where, if once introduced, it may affect a large part of the inmates, and require years for its eradication. Tinea Sycosis. (Ringworm of the beard.) First Stage.—It begins as upon non-hairy portions of the skin, in the form of small points, which generally attain the size of a pea, or are even larger, before attracting attention. They spread rapidly in a circular form, flatten- ing down in the centre as the elevated margin of papules enlarges, and being accompanied by a considerable degree of itching and burning. The centres of the patches remain more or less reddened and scaly, but seldom present the white, brawny look, so characteristic of their seat upon the scalp. The sides of the face and neck are the most common starting points of the disease, and from these the rings may spread in every direction, or new ones may be started from the first, by self-inoculation upon other parts. The disease may thus run on for some time, without any apparent change in the hairs, but sooner or later, the period varying greatly in different cases, the hairs begin to fall from the parts affected, thus defining the patches more conspicuously than before. The hairs break off a short distance above the surface, leaving ragged stumps, as in the scalp. The disease may extend from the shaven portions of the face into parts of the beard worn long, or, beginning in the circinate form upon the neck, may spread upwards into the long hair of the face; but it seldom primarily gets a seat in a full beard. It rarely affects men who wear a full beard, or those who shave themselves, because it is almost always contracted at the barber’s. ISTo precautions in the way of separate shaving equipments at these places will insure absolute safety against such chances. Razors are rubbed upon a common strop ; towels are used upon several pei’sons in succession ; and the writer has treated ringworm upon the fingers of barbers. In such ways the minute germs of the disease may be transferred from one affected individual to many who think them-