VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE LOWER ANIMALS. 598 scarcety disputable, has some singular affinities with syphilis, yet neverthe- less, scientifically, we are not in a position to say that it is syphilis. This disease was observed by Ammon in 1796, in the North of Persia, and has since spread to Europe and Africa; it is characterized by ulcers on the genitals, followed by eruptions on the skin, various nervous symptoms, pa- ralysis, and slow death. Ballardini described the affection in 1849 as syphilis of horses. Carenzi, of Turin, in 1874, made experiments to determine the suscepti- bility of animals of the bovine species to the inoculation of syphilis, but un- fortunately the case on which he based his most positive conclusions has been interpreted in a diametrically opposite sense by Prof. Gamberini, of Bologna. The experiment was made upon a heifer which wTas inoculated with the pus from a patient suffering from multiple venereal ulcers; at certain intervals after the inoculation there appeared eruptions, induration of the mammary glands, loss of hair, and constitutional disturbance; at the end of 229 days all the symptoms had disappeared, and the general health of the animal was re-established. On the 131st day, Dr. Giacomini inoculated a young girl with the detritus of the heifer’s first set of papules, and this operation was at the end of a week followed by the appearance of small distinct papules of a copper color, identical with those on the animal. According to Gamberini, the patient who furnished the pus for the first inoculation was suffering from chancroids, and the heifer did not present the symptoms of constitu- tional syphilis, the loss of hair being a common occurrence among ruminants during the month of March; the patient also who was inoculated from the heifer was only under observation for eight days, a circumstance which renders the observation valueless as regards the symptoms which she pre- sented. Jullien also gives the results of inoculation in several other species of animals, all being negative as regards the production of syphilis; and concludes with the observation “that up to the present time syphilis remains entirely pecu- liar to the human race.” The conclusion of Belhomme and Martin1 is to the same effect: that the syphilitic virus is not transmitted to animals, and that its inoculation is always followed by negative results; and that, on the other hand, the pus of the simple chancre (chancroid) can be transmitted to animals, giving rise to an ulcer the discharge from which, when reinoculated on man, gives rise to a simple chancre or chancroid. The more recent investigations of Dr. Rabatel,2 of Lyons, in which animals were inoculated with gonorrhoeal pus, with chancroidal pus, and with the material of the chancre, the operation being in each case followed by a nega- tive result, confirm the observations of previous investigators as regards the immunity of the lower animals from syphilis, but differ materially as to the results obtained by the inoculation of the matter of gonorrhoea and chancroid. The experiments of most value performed by this investigator were those made by introducing sections of recently removed chancres under the skin of a bitch, and by the injection of defibrinated blood of a man suffering from well-marked secondary syphilis, into the jugular vein of a dog. Neither ot these animals exhibited any symptoms of constitutional syphilis, and addi- tional evidence of their immunity from this disease is presented in the fact that, as a result of their intercourse, the former gave birth to a litter of twelve healthy pups. 1 Traite de la Syphilis et des Maladies Veneriennes, p. 85. 2 Lyon Medical, Juin 8, 1882.