328 GONORRHOEA. one year, and in whom a urethritis had appeared soon after his marriage. This disap- peared under treatment, but subsequently redeveloped three or four days after each sexual congress with his wife. Upon examination it was found that she suffered from retroversion of the uterus; that the surface of the external os was eroded, and covered with a thin layer of muco-purulent material. The uterus was restored to its normal position and retained by a pessary. The lady made a prompt recovery, and from that time the gentleman suffered no more from his urethral trouble. Mr. Milton, an ardent supporter of the theory of specificity, admits1 that “ ure- thral discharges do appear in men as the result of connection with women laboring under leucorrhoea,” but says that such a discharge is “ usually much milder than gonorrhoea in its symptoms,” which'we have no doubt is true. We may also agree with him that “ even a slight amount of gonorrhoea is more likely to excite the same disease in another person, than a pretty high degree of leucorrhoea is to bring on a simple urethritis.” Leucorrhoeal discharges are sometimes almost entirely mucous, and in such cases are probably innocuous. Gonorrhoea, in the sense in which he uses the term, always contains pus, which is undoubtedly the most active and most frequent source of urethritis, only it need not be in any sense “ specific.” Unquestionably the strongest argument urged in favor of the specificity of gonorrhoea, is the fact that those married men who refrain from intercourse with other women than their wives, enjoy comparative immunity even although the latter are the subjects of leucorrhoea. There can be no doubt that in the vast majority of cases such men either escape all forms of urethral inflam- mation, or at the most suffer from a catarrhal urethritis, and rarely or never develop an acute, inflammatory condition. This as a clinical fact is denied by no one, but was explained by Ricord on the theory of “ acclimation the husband is said to become “ seasoned” or accustomed to the discharges of the wife, so that they have no effect upon him, although at the same time, as is shown by many authentic cases, they may give rise to a violent gonorrhoea in a third person. This is doubtless also true to a great extent, yet it hardly seems to me entirely satisfactory, or to explain, for instance, the escape of those men who marry women already affected with leucorrhoeal discharges, and who, of course, are not already “ acclimated.” Great numbers of such mar- riages continually occur, and yet it is very rare, at least among well-to-do people, to find the husband developing gonorrhoea, even although the predis- posing influence of the sexual excesses not uncommon in early married life be added to the possible exciting causes existing in the woman’s condition. In dispensary practice, however, it is not so exceptional an occurrence, and is occasionally a source of domestic discord. I have seen several such cases within the last year. Here again it must in fairness be admitted that the women concerned are hardly above suspicion; and although it is the duty of the physician under the circumstances to give the woman the benefit of any doubt as to the precise character and cause of her ailment, it cannot be denied that the doubt frequently exists. The only explanation of these facts which seems in accord with the various powerful arguments in favor of the non-specific character of gonorrhoea, is that which attributes the production of the disease to the combined influences of neglect of personal cleanliness and hygienic precautions on the part of both the woman and the man, together with sexual and possibly alcoholic intemperance. Fournier has shown that of 387 women known to have been the source of gonorihoeal infection, only 56 were prostitutes, the other 331 being made up of married women, kept women, shop girls, and domestics, or, in other words, of women with whom illicit intercourse was often of necessity clandestine, hurried, or performed under circum- stances which did not admit of thorough ablution. Such women are of course more apt to be the subjects of uterine or vaginal catarrh, the secretions from which, if 1 Pathology and Treatment of Gonorrhoea, p. 6.