654 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Where the growth is deep, and occupies a small area, excision may be resorted to, as affording a linear scar only, and as being a shorter process than the slow repair which necessarily follows deep cauterization. A plastic opera- tion may often prevent or correct marked disfigurement upon the face. Every case should be closely watched after any form of operation, and every nodule should be destroyed with caustic at once, as it appears about the edge of the wound or cicatrix, or, if deep infiltration recur, the whole mass should he extirpated again without delay. In this way, by constant watchfulness and attack, nearly every case may be restored to and kept in a healthy condition, if treatment be begun before the disease has become very extensive. In even the most advanced stages, its progress can be delayed, and the general condi- tion of the patient improved by such local treatment alone. Connective-tissue Cancer.—Other forms of cancer affect the integument, either primarily or by extension from underlying parts. One, the so-called lenticular variety, is developed in the skin above a mammary cancer, or after its excision, in the form of nodules, which vary in size from that of a pin’s head to that of a bean, and are firm and glistening, and sometimes reddish- brown in color. Subsequently the nodules may soften at their summits, and become excoriated, and may unite to form irregular, tubercular masses. In this way, large districts of skin upon the chest may be converted into a tissue of cuirass-like hardness, which may extend down upon the lower trunk or the arms. The glands in the axillae become enlarged, and a fatal termina- tion is not long delayed. In another form, Carcinoma tuberosum, the disease appears, in old persons, as larger nodular swellings, the size at times of a walnut, or hen’s egg, occurring upon the face and hands. The swellings may occur in large numbers over the general surface, and are generally associated with similar masses in the internal organs. The surface of the tumors is often of a dark-red color, is easily denuded, when it becomes covered with a greenish crust, or may be destroyed by deep ulceration. In some situations, the surface may assume a warty, fissured condition, especially upon the hack of the foot. Single nodules may be completely cured by ulceration. After a few years, the disease generally ends fatally. Melanotic Cancer.—The third variety is melanotic or pigmented cancer. This begins in the form of one or several, smooth, round nodules, of a slate or black color, of the size of a small shot or pea. They are situated most com- monly, at first, upon the hands and fingers, feet and toes, but may begin upon any part. They enlarge, or, by confluence, form an irregular, tubercular, fungoid growth. After a time, the mass softens, and is converted into an ulcer, which penetrates deeply into the underlying tissues. Subsequently, other nodules appear, either about the primary seat or scattered along the course of the large lymphatic vessels, until the legs and abdomen become quite thickly occupied by the small blackish nodules. After death, to which termination the disease generally hastens at a rapid rate, the internal organs are often found abundantly infiltrated with similar melanotic masses. The nodules consist of a coarse, vascular network of stroma, having in places an alveolar arrange- ment, and containing small and large epithelial and spindle-shaped cells, in the form of nests or irregular collections, and diffused and granular pigment. For these forms of connective tissue and melanotic cancer, little can he done; and excision of individual, even of the primary, nodules, does not prevent their recurrence, nor check the fatal progress of the disease. The tendency to diar- rhoea and marasmus, which marks the later stages of the affection, is to be, as far as possible, anticipated by tonic treatment.