GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE ABDOMEN. 193 ing the stomach or small intestine, these wounds may always be expected to cause death, generally from peritonitis following extravasation, or from very acute septicaemia. Otis declares that “ the unequivocal recoveries from shot wounds of the stomach, with or without fistula, number only six or seven” —fistula having occurred but twice, in the case of Alexis St. Martin, and in that reported by Baron Percy; and the same authority doubts if during our war there was a single “incontestable instance of recovery” from wound of the small intestine, though in five cases that got well there was more or less “plausible ground for suspecting” that the lesion was of such a nature. The Fig. 280. Jejunum perforated by a pistol ball, showing eversion of mucous membrane. (A. M. M., Spec. 841.) Fig. 281. records of military surgery certainly furnish but very few cases of recovery from gunshot perforation of this part of the bowel. If the wound has been made by a small pistol ball, as it is likely to he in cases occurring in civil life, the opening may be so small that escape of fluids may at first be pre- vented by an eversion of the mucous membrane of the gut, aided by the temporary paralysis of the damaged part of the tube, which is produced by the blow, and thus time may be afforded for the formation of adhesions that shall protect the general peritoneal cavity. The prognosis in injuries of the large intestine is much more favorable, particularly when it is the ascending or descending part of the colon that has been wounded. In at least 20 per cent, of the cases of this nature tabulated by Otis, recovery took place, stercoral fistula having been formed in a large proportion, but having, in most instances, become spontaneously closed in the course of a few months. In many of these lion-fatal cases, the wound, it is pro- bable, was in an uncovered part of the bowel, so that in reality the peritoneal cavity was not opened; and it is in this opening of the peritoneum, With the result- ing inflammation, or, much more rarely, large hemor- rhages, that lies the excessive danger of intestinal wounds. When the liver has unquestionably been wounded, as proved by the escape of bile, or by the protrusion of a part of the organ, though death is very apt to occur, from hemorrhage, from hepatic abscess, or from peritonitis, yet recovery may take place. In at least 14 of the 59 uncomplicated cases analyzed by Otis (23.7 per cent.), and in 18 of the 111 cases in which there were associated lesions of other important parts, and of which the terminations were ascertained (16.2 per cent.), the patients did not die; and it is quite possible that in a number of the thirty other cases of recovery from supposed liver wounds, the organ was really damaged. Even when the gall-bladder has been injured, a fatal result is not inevitable,1 though almost certain to occur from extravasation Section of liver showing gun- shot perforation of right lohe. (A. M. M., Spec. 1232.) 1 In at least one case, that of Paroisse, a bullet lias been found in the cavity of the gall- bladder, death having occurred long after the receipt of the injury, and front a totally inde- pendent cause. VOL. II.—13