716 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSiE. posture with an occasional gliding movement, such as weavers and boatmen, whence the names of “ Spittalsfields weavers” and “lighterman’s bottom.” If suppuration occur, troublesome sinuses are apt to result, which must be treated on general principles, by setons or stimulating injections, followed by pressure or appropriate incisions, when such can he safely and advantageously practised. More commonly, however, the bursal walls become much thickened, when either excision by careful dissection, or Volkmann’s “antiseptic incision,” should be resorted to.1 Obturator Internus Bursa.—I merely mention the following case inci- dentally, since its result apparently indicates what is the proper operative treatment for any of the other numerous hip bursae, if they become enlarged, hut do not suppurate. The tumor occurred in the person of a medical man of markedly rheumatic diathesis, and was diagnosed by being rendered tense and prominent only when the obturator internus muscle contracted. Punc- ture resulted in a rapid and permanent cure. In similar cases appropriate constitutional remedies should be tried, and if these, conjoined with rest, fail, puncture by the aspirator should then he resorted to. Blisters and pressure, for the reasons pointed out when speaking of such remedies, cannot prove useful in any marked degree, owing to the deep situation of this as of most of the other hip bursse. Anterior Bursae of Knee and Vicinity. A bursa quite commonly develops over the external and anterior face of the thigh in street organ-grinders, while in shoemakers one situated more anteriorly and internally sometimes occurs. About the knee, a number are found. One of large size is usually developed beneath the quadriceps tendon (the sub-quadricipital), which often opens into the joint. This may become enlarged in sewing-machine girls who start their machines with the knee. Bursse are usually found over both the internal and external femoral condyles. One, which is sometimes multiple, is situated over the patella (the pre-patellar); one over the tubercle of the tibia (the subcutaneouspre-tibial); another between the tibial tubercle and the ligamentum patellae (the deep pre-tibial); and one or more beneath the gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and sartorius tendons, the so-called patte d’oie tendons of the French. Bursa beneath Vastus Internus. — This is occasionally diseased. It sometimes gives rise to obscure symptoms, apparently due to disease of the knee-joint. It is commonly the result of a blow in this region, resulting in an inflammation of this sac, which is accompanied by acute pain, easily relieved by rest and treatment. Recurrent attacks on over-exertion are common, and the limb is weakened. Diagnosis.•—This depends on a history of direct injury, and the tardy pro- gress of the disease, with occasional attacks of inflammation which produce lameness and interfere with flexion—all being due to the development of an oval, hard, tender tumor, under the insertion of the vastus internus, which can be grasped between the Angers and moved, when the muscle is relaxed, but which cannot be detected when it is tense. Treatment.—This consists of the enforcement of rest and the local use of antiphlogistics. See Treatment of Acute and Chronic Bursitis.