609 MEDICINAL RASHES. well known, called into operation by the surgeon in the treatment of lupus, carcinoma, etc. Mercury.— The over-stimulating properties of the many preparations of this substance employed in the local treatment of skin diseases, are familiar to all. When employed in the form of a vapor bath, or in the inunction cure for syphilis, the papular inflammation excited upon the skins of some persons often interferes with the continued and proper employment of the remedy. Tar.—The various tars used upon the skin in the treatment of disease, or for toilet purposes, frequently develop a considerable degree of inflammation, mostly in the form of a folliculitis, but sometimes in that of pustules of large size, a real acne. Sulphur.—This is a decided irritant upon many skins, and, when employed as a parasiticide, or otherwise, often gives rise to acute eczematous inflam- mation. Iodine.—The tincture of iodine occasionally produces a deep-seated derma- titis beneath the surface upon which it has been painted, and, rarely, a milder form of inflammation spreading widely from such centres of application. Balm of Gilead. (Populus candicans).—A tincture of the buds of this tree is, in some parts of the country, used as a domestic remedy for sprains and bruises. It produces at times a dermatitis closely resembling that caused by arnica. Chrysophanic Acid, or Crisarobin.—This substance, the active principle of Goa powder (both of common use in the treatment of the vegetable para- sitic affections, and in that of psoriasis), produces, in addition to its staining the epidermis, a moderate inflammation of the skin, which frequently pre- vents its further employment. Upon the face it almost always causes marked oedema, and should never be applied to this part. Here might be mentioned the names of many celebrated quack lotions and ointments, which are now in general use by all classes of people, and which, when applied to the general surface, at times give rise to serious forms of dermatitis. II. Internal Remedies. The substances which give rise to disturbances of the skin when they are administered internally, can only be mentioned by name, inasmuch as they do not especially belong to the province of surgery. They are:— Arsenic :—Erythematous, papular, urticarial, bullous, pustular, and pur- puric efflorescences. Belladonna :—Erythema, scarlatiniform rash. Bromine :—Macular, papular, pustular, flattened nodular, or acneiform eruption, sometimes bullous. Chloral:—Erythematous, urticarial, and papular forms of efflorescence, occasionally purpuric. Copaiba :—Erythematous and urticarial efflorescences combined. Cubebs :—Erythematous or papular. (Rare.) Digitalis :—Erythematous or papular. (Uncommon.) Iodine :—Erythematous, papular, vesicular, pustular, or acneiform efflores- cence : sometimes bullous ; rarely purpuric. vol. ii.—39