15 PROCESS OF REPAIR IN WOUNDS. stage of reaction, in a clinical sense, will then be normal; it will be such as may be said fairly to balance that of shock, and to tend towards recovery. Traumatic Fever.—When the symptoms of reaction, either with respect to intensity or duration, exceed this normal standard; when the circulatory system acts powerfully and rapidly, the respirations increase in quickness, the brain and special senses become abnormally active, and the temperature of the body rises, and remains above that of health ; and when, with this ele- vation of temperature, the functions of the body generally are disturbed and work badly, as indicated by thirst, a foul tongue, loss of appetite, constipa- tion, diminished secretion of urine, want of sleep, or disturbed rest—trau- matic fever is said to exist. This fever may show itself the day after the injury or operation, or may not appear till the second day, and it may last for twenty-four, forty-eight, or even seventy-two hours. When the case is going on satisfactorily towards recovery, the fever seldom lasts beyond this period. Should the symptoms, however, continue, dangers are to be apprehended, and difficulties looked for. When the fever runs on into the fifth or sixth day, the surgeon may be sure that some complication is present, and, should the symptoms be still more fixed, the probabilities are that the case is not only badly complicated, but that it will pass on to a fatal issue.1 Under all circumstances, and in the treatment of every wound, accidental or operative, the eye of the surgeon should be steadily fixed on the temperature chart—such a chart affording the surest indication of the advance or presence of any evil complication. Process of Repair in Wounds. Before entering into details, it is well to know, as a primary truth, that the processes of repair are identical in all tissues; that the reparative process in bone or muscle, integument or tendon, soft or hard parts, is the same, such modifications alone showing themselves as necessarily appertain to the anatomy of the tissue or special circumstance of its position. Thus, tissues that are highly vascular, may undergo more rapid and more perfect repair than others less fortunately circumstanced, and bone tissue may require more time to unite than skin, yet in all the process is alike. Let us therefore inquire what the process is, and see what changes take place in parts undergoing repair; and then look at them where they are best seen, where an incision is made through the skin and the edges are brought together. Immediate Union.—The chief points that can be observed have reference to the capillaries. In these, at the margin of the wound, the blood will be found coagulated up to the nearest anastomosis, and the capillary vessels in the neighborhood will be seen to be dilated—this dilatation being caused by the increase of pressure to which the capillaries have been subjected by the altered circulation of the blood in the immediate vicinity of the wound. When wounds unite by immediate union (the “first intention” of Hunter), no other changes than these take place, beyond the gradual restoration of the capillary circulation through the parts that have been divided, and under these somewhat rare circumstances no scar or cicatrix is left. The soft parts at first simply adhere together, and consequently become continuous. Primary Adhesion.—Should the wound unite by what is called adhesive union or primary adhesion, in which a cicatrix is formed, other changes are to be 1 See a paper by the author, in the Lancet for June 5, 1880.