429 LOCALITY OF SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. On his entrance the following condition of things was observed. Smarting of the lower lip which was found swollen, patulous, and devoid of induration. The mucous membrane was deep red in color, and glistening. On the mucous surface of the lower lip, near the gingivo-labial fold, was a chancrous-looking ulceration, and on the cuta- neous surface covered by the beard, were two small ulcers covered with crusts. His teeth were good, but dirty and uncared for. (He was a great smoker.) The mouth and pharynx were sound. A submaxillary lymphatic gland, in the median line, was enlarged to the size of a pigeon’s egg, and painful on pressure. Abundant salivation was present, but the breath was not fetid. There was no pain in the lip except on mastication. The last coitus, according to his statement, had taken place on the 10th of July. On the 2d of August, inoculation was made with matter taken from the ulcer on the inside of the lip, and this inoculation was positive in result. The resulting sore lasted for fifteen days, and disappeared without treatment, while the ulcers of the lip healed under the local use of chlorate of potassium. The submaxillary ganglion did not suppurate. Millet himself seems to doubt whether this lesion was really a chancroid, and he says that its value is impaired by two circumstances: the first is that he did not have permission to examine or even question the man’s mistress; and the second, that the pus of ulcerative stomatitis has been proved auto- inoculable in several instances by M. Bergeron, of the Hopital Sainte Eu- genie.1 The next case is one reported by Labarthe.2 It occurred in a man who applied for treatment on the 4th of December, 1870, with three chancroids of the penis and a right inguinal adenitis attended with fluctuation. The bubo was opened on the same day, and local treatment was pursued for both sets of lesions. On the 8th of December, the patient called the doctor’s attention to his lower lip, which pained him. There, at a point midway between the median line and the left commissure, was a longitudinal ulceration which had the appearance of a deep fissure. The edges, however, were punched out and a littD undermined; the floor was grayish in appearance, and furnished a purulent secretion. Upon questioning the man, it appeared that he was in the habit of placing the pin which confined the dressing of his bubo between his lips. Labarthe believed that he had to do with a chancroid of the lip, but to make assurance double-sure, he inoculated the matter from the ulcer on the man’s lip, above his abdomen, and in four days the result was positive. The next cases are those of Profeta, of Palermo, which are translated from the Italian in the fifth volume of the Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphili- graphie. The first case was that of an Italian musician, whose chancroid, of two years’ dura- tion, began at the right commissure of the lips, and extended over the cheek and fore- head. It was phagedaenic in nature, and was seated upon an engorged but not indurated base; it secreted an abundant purulent matter; its edges were livid and undermined; in short, it presented all the aspects of a phagedaenic chancroid. No evidences of con- stitutional syphilis were present, but the patient had a vesiculo-pustular eruption due to the presence of the acarus scabiei. Auto-inoculation was practised with the pus of this ulcer, with a positive result. The second case was one of a barber who had multiple chancroids of the penis, with a suppurating bubo. Attempting to open this bubo with a razor, he cut his finger, soil- ing the wound with pus and blood from the bubo. He then promptly put his finger in his mouth to stanch the bleeding, and the following condition of things ensued. He had a chancroid of the index finger of the left hand, with lymphatic engorgement of the arm of the same side; besides this, he had two chancroidal ulcerations of the upper and lower lips, which invaded both the skin and mucous tissues of these parts. He appa- rently declined treatment, but Profeta saw him from time to time for a year, and states that his face was peppered (parseme) with chancroids. 1 De la Stomatite ulcereuse. Paris, 1860. 2 Le Chancre simple, These, p. 53.