263 DIAGNOSIS OP ABSCESS. If the finger be passed over the inflamed part, a soft spot surrounded by brawny induration, and with a clearly-defined edge, may often be detected. This spot may be round or oval, and so small as to escape any but the most careful search, or it may be an irregular patch of some considerable extent, abruptly bounded by a distinct firm border. It marks the site at which matter that was at first deeply placed has come to the surface, and is shut in merely by skin and softening subcutaneous tissue. Again, though no soften- ing can be detected, some spot may be so exquisitely tender that the patient shrinks and complains of sharp lancinating pain whenever even slight pres- sure is made over it. Here (at the tender spot), as in the former case, matter is on its way to the surface, and the tenderness on pressure is due to the increased tension of the abscess-cavity. Very often the spot which is tender is at the same time soft also; and the existence of softening and tenderness at the same spot is still stronger evidence that matter is beneath, and at no great distance from the surface. Pointing of Abscesses.—As matter forms and increases in quantity, it shows a tendency to travel in the direction in which it meets with least resistance; and thus, although at very different rates of progress in different cases, it makes its way towards the surface, or, more rarely, towards one of the mucous or serous cavities of the body. This process seems to be in part merely mechanical, and to result from the pressure which the accumulating pus exerts on the surrounding structures; but it is also largely due to the liquefaction and absorption of the tissues by the leucocytes by which they are permeated. On approaching the surface, the abscess is said to “ point,” that is, it forms a more or less circumscribed and more or less prominent, sometimes nipple-shaped, swelling, soft in the centre. The skin over this swelling, in cases of acute suppuration, now becomes red or dusky, smooth, and glazed, while the surrounding parts are firm, brawny, and cedematous. In the case of chronic abscesses, the process of pointing is so gradual that the skin softens and grows thin and dusky without any wide or active disturb- ance of its nutrition. Should no interference with the natural process take place, when pointing is complete, the skin bursts, and the abscess-cavity dis- charges its contents. Constitutional Symptoms. — The general symptoms of abscess scarcely admit of description apart from those attending the earlier stages of local inflammation; and it will be sufficient to remark that while, like those observed in the preceding periods of the inflammatory process, they are often unimportant, in some instances they are so severe as to afford grave reasons for the evacuation of pus at the earliest practicable moment. The pulse is small, compressible, and rapid; the temperature high, reaching 103° or 104° Fahr.; and there are frequent rigors, copious sweating, complete loss of appe- tite and of sleep, rapid wasting, and extreme nervous depression with a ten- dency to syncope. When these symptoms are present, in abscess of one of the large joints, the testis, or the prostate, or beneath the firm structures of the hand or elsewhere, immediate evacuation must be resorted to. Diagnosis of Abscess. Abscess is one of the most common of all surgical disorders. All have often met with it, and there are few who have not had some personal experi- ence of its features, its stages, and its treatment. And yet there are no affec- tions more difficult to diagnose than are some of the forms of abscess, and