150 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. are removed. Great annoyance and even fatal visceral disease are sometimes caused in this way. Necrosis may thus occur years after the apparent firm consolidation of the fracture, when from any cause whatever the general health becomes seriously impaired. In cases of Assuring without separation, or where the periosteal invest- ment of the fragments is not much disturbed, these should he left untouched. In gunshot as in all other fractures, it is of the utmost importance to hold the fragments in apposition, as far as can be done; and no matter what bone it may be that is damaged, rest as complete as possible of the injured part should be secured—by dressings, if they can be applied—otherwise, by posi- tion. In the extremities, where, according to Sedillot, “ ever since firearms have been used on the field of battle, and in sieges, the same question has always presented itself to surgeons: viz., in what cases should fractured limbs be saved, or sacrificed in part (resection), or in whole (amputation)?”— if an attempt at preservation is made—the injured part together with the joints next above and below should be at once immobilized. The less the wound is disturbed, and the more completely movement of the fragments is prevented, the better are the chances of recovery. To secure the necessary quietude of the damaged tissues, the application of a plaster-of-Paris dressing1 is of great value, and it matters little what parti- cular form of the dressing is employed—the continuous roller, or the Bava- rian, or longitudinal strips—provided that the immobilization is sutficiently made, and, what is of much importance, that the wound itself is not covered in, and the limb not constricted at that level. If the patient is not to be moved, and can be constantly kept under proper observation, the latter point need not be so much regarded, since the investing bandage can be at once sufficiently cut open if the swelling necessitates it. It has been objected to this method of dressing that the opening opposite the wound weakens just where there should be the greatest strength ; that the splint will soon break in transportation; and that it quickly becomes soiled by the discharges, which both render it offensive and rapidly soften it so that it no longer possesses the requisite firmness. These are certainly not insuperable objections ; the fenes- trum may be bridged over with a piece of tin, iron, wire-gauze, or even wood ; a properly made bandage will stand the jolting of any ordinary trans- portation ; and, by the use of oiled silk or thin rubber cloth, the fluids from the wound can be kept oft' the plaster. Great advantages are claimed for wire-gauze splints, that can by pressure of the hand be moulded to the shape of the broken limb, and yet are firm enough to keep the parts quiet, and to permit the patient to be removed, if necessary, by ambulance or rail. Beside external support, there must be protection from the danger conse- quent upon the retention of extravasated blood and effused serum ; in other words, free drainage must be secured by counter-openings, by position, or by tubes, one or all. A gunshot fracture does not differ from an ordinary com- pound fracture, except in the frequent smallness of the wound in comparison with the extent of the injury, and the same general principles must govern the treatment of both sets of cases. The essential requisites for successful conserva- tism, in either case, are the securing of rest, cleanliness, and thorough drainage. Future experience must determine the value of the antiseptic dressing. As we have already seen, its formal application on the field is, at least in its entirety, seldom practicable; yet the comparatively few trials that have been made of it in military surgery, show very clearly that its primary applica- tion, before inflammation has set in, gives very much better results than those 1 The use of plaster was recommended as long ago as 1814 by Hendriksz, of Holland, and Pirogoff employed the plaster bandage in 1854 during the Crimean war.