261 SYMPTOMS OF ABSCESS. considerable quantities of fragments of bone coated with large crystals of lime-salts continued for many months to be discharged, and the patient nearly died of exhaustion. At length, however, the effete material seemed to have been expelled, the sinuses healed, and the patient was restored to health. In studying the clinical aspect of residual abscesses, it should be borne in mind that, as a rule, their appearance does not indicate a renewal of the original disease, nor do they generally affect the integrity of the repair which has taken place. Suppuration, indeed, seems to involve only such products as have become effete, and not to reach those which have been fully organ- ized into new tissue. Hence, even when they originate in the immediate vicinity of the spine, or one of the large joints, they frequently run the course of common chronic abscesses; and like these they may be treated. After evacuation, they often heal quickly and very favorably, without fever, or any serious complication. Symptoms of Abscess. When in the course of the inflammatory process suppuration occurs, and abscess is formed, the event is marked by the following symptoms. Of these, however, it must be premised that they vary very much in different cases: the difference depending, perhaps mainly on the speed with which pus forms, and on the structure of the part in which it is collecting. The more acute the abscess, and the greater the tension to which it leads, the more pro- nounced will the symptoms be; while in abscesses of a chronic character, all the usual symptoms, except swelling, may he so completely absent that the affection is not unfrequently mistaken for a fatty or some other form of tumor. Pain.—The degree in which this symptom is present varies extremely in different cases. In some instances, pain is greatly aggravated when the for- mation of pus takes place, chiefly by the increase of tension which it produces. This is the case in abscesses formed beneath unyielding structures—for ex- ample in the sheaths of tendons, in glands with dense capsules, or beneath strong fascine, as in the neck, or the perineum—and in those inclosed by bone, such as alveolar abscess, or abscess in the articular ends of the long bones. In all these instances the patient’s suffering increases hour by hour till mat- ter is let out. On the other hand, in tissues that readily yield, the formation of pus is followed by the rapid subsidence of inflammation, matter travels unimpeded toivards the surface, tension grows less, and, while tenderness in- creases, pain is considerably diminished. Rigors.—Though these are occasionally met with in cases of deeply seated suppuration, attended with marked constitutional disturbance, and also in cases of suppuration in the neighborhood of the urethra, they can scarcely be included in the list of the common symptoms of acute abscess. They are often of much graver import, and indicate the existence of some form of blood poisoning.1 Local Symptoms.—The local signs of abscess are fluctuation; oedema, with pitting under pressure; a soft spot, surrounded by brawny oedema; a tender spot. 1 In those who have had ague, suppuration may provoke its return, and the rigors attending this affection may suggest fears, which afterward happily prove groundless, that the patient has pyaemia.