385 TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. perineum, by means of a hypodermic syringe, a quarter of a grain of morphia and grain of atropia, and repeat this in an hour if the retention persist. Place the patient in a hot bath, and keep him submerged to his chin until his urine begins to flow, or until he shows signs of syncope, in which case remove him and wrap him in blankets. If the heart’s action remains irregular and alarms him, give a few drops of tincture of digitalis; if still unrelieved, place over the hypogastrium a large, mushy, hot hop poultice, covered with oiled silk, and renewed every two hours ; give an enema of hot water and soapsuds, and after a time repeat the hot bath, or, if faintness is imminent, substitute a sitz-bath. By these means, patiently persisted in, catheterization can almost always be avoided. If they fail, however, and the symptoms of retention and of distension of the bladder become serious, the urine should be drawn away with a Nelaton’s catheter, using the greatest possible gentleness in its insertion. It must be understood that the evils of the gentle introduction of a soft catheter, even as often as twice daily, are less than those produced by the intense and almost continuous tenesmus which increases pelvic congestion, augments the pros- tatic and vesical inflammation, and causes almost unbearable suffering. Whenever, therefore, this condition is associated with dulness over the hypo- gastrium, and the hot bath, poultices, etc., fail to give relief, no further hesitation should be felt about resorting to catherization. Of course, if a tight stricture be present, and there is difficulty in introducing a soft in- strument, others must be tried, and occasionally external urethrotomy or perineal section may become necessary ; but the description of these cases and of the operations for their relief does not properly belong to this Article, and will be found elsewhere. Prostatic Abscess.—When, during an attack of acute prostatitis, the patient suddenly has rigors followed by increased fever and sweating, it becomes probable that suppuration has occurred in the gland. This does not involve any change in treatment, but digital examination per rectum should now be made once or twice daily. If the abscess opens into the urethra, as it usually does, no special treatment is necessary; if it points towards the rectum, however, or if, with unmistakable symptoms of suppuration, the abscess shows no disposition to point in either of these directions, it becomes neces- sary to evacuate it, as it is very desirable that it be prevented from burrow- ing between the layers of perineal fascia and so finding its way into the peri- neum. If this unfortunately occurs, an incision should be made in the median line until the pus cavity is reached. In opening a prostatic abscess through the rectum, the finger should search for a prominent swelling on the surface of the prostate, less resistant and more fluctuating than the rest of the gland. A curved bistoury may then be passed along the finger and the abscess incised. No subsequent treatment is necessary, except the free use of hot water enemata. M. Terrillon calls attention to the importance of feeling for the pulsation of the hemorrhoidal arteries in such cases, and of avoiding them in making the incision. A fenestrated rectal speculum may be employed with advantage in performing this opera- tion, the patient having been previously etherized. Chronic Prostatitis.-—WTien prostatitis becomes chronic, the treatment is difficult and prolonged. That which has proved most beneficial in my hands may be summarized as follows: removal of stricture, contracted meatus, phi- mosis, or other predisposing cause; restricted but nutritious diet; avoidance of all liquors, except some form of light red wine; careful attention to the bowels, cold water enemata once a day being often of great service ; daily cool vol. ii.—25