SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 028 and the needle then withdrawn. The hair should now be removed with for- ceps, the ease with which it comes away indicating the success of the opera- tion. Should the removal require any force, the needle should be again intro- duced within the empty follicle, and the process of electrolysis repeated. A considerable amount of pain is experienced during the passage of the current through the tissues, which ceases almost entirely on the removal of the sponge. Sometimes, in addition to the frothing, the skin surrounding the needle is thrown up into an urticarial elevation, and is greatly reddened. Subse- quently the follicle may suppurate, or may give exit to a serous discharge, which forms a crust, adhering to the skin above it for a week or two. Some- times a hard infiltration may be felt beneath the surface for a considerable period. Ordinarily, the after-effects are very trivial. The parts finally return to their natural condition, leaving possibly a minute pit or depression to in- dicate the seat of the operation. If this has been successful, the hair does not reappear. The degree of success depends largely upon the skill of the operator. Dr. Michel claims that 90 per cent, of the larger hairs are at once and permanently destroyed, but others are satisfied if 50 per cent, are success- fully dealt with on the first trial. The operation must be repeated upon those hairs which reappear until all are finally destroyed. It is a question whether or not the hair should be extracted before insert- ing the needle. Where the hair is very coarse, so that the mouth of the follicle is well defined after its extraction, it may he better to remove it before inserting the needle; hut when the hairs are fine and blonde, their presence is necessary to guide the needle within the follicle to be destroyed. It is easy to make the fine-pointed needle enter the follicle even when the hair remains, and the skilled touch recognizes at once when it has been successfully inserted. Even when the needle cannot be introduced directly within the canal, its point may be made to penetrate the tissue in the immediate vicinity of the papilla, so that the electrolytic action may extend to and comprise this essential point. The subsequent non-resistance to the forceps during extraction shows whether this result has been obtained. In place of the needle, a fine flexible platinum wire, sharply pointed, may be used, as more likely, perhaps, to follow the direction of the hair follicle. The patient should be placed in the strongest available light, but, even under the most favorable conditions, the eyes of the operator will tire after a sitting of an hour or less. Perhaps forty or fifty hairs are as many as can be destroyed at one time with advan- tage either to the surgeon or to the patient, although the latter, after the first few sittings, generally hears the pain of the process without flinching. When an extensive hirsuties is to be treated, a long time is required for the success- ful primary removal of the hairs, and some of the follicles will without fail require a repetition of the operation. The fine downy hairs which occur either alone or interspersed with the stronger growth, should not be interfered with until they attain a more conspicuous development. Elephantiasis Arabum. (Synonyms: Pachydermia; Bucvemia tropica ; Spargosis ; Hypersarcosis ; Morbus Herculeus ; Elephantopus ; The Rose ; Barbadoes leg ; Cochin leg, etc.) This Elephantiasis of the Arabian medical writers is in no way related to that of the Greek writers {Elephantiasis Grcecorum), or true leprosy. It affects principally the lower extremities and the genital parts of both sexes, and in both forms is of common occurrence in the tropical and subtropical regions of either hemisphere, though, as a rare affection, it occurs in all parts of the