(691) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA BY CHARLES B. NANCREDE, M.D., SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL AND TO ST. CHRISTOPHER’S HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN, PHILADELPHIA. The large number of bursae found in the human body, the liability of their diseases to be confounded with more serious maladies, and the fact that most, if not all, cases of peri-arthritic suppuration can be traced to a precedent in- flammation of one of these sacs, demand a more extended notice of their affections than is usual in most surgical works. In addition to those usually described by anatomists, adventitious bursae are apt to be developed wherever projecting portions of the skeleton, but thinly covered by soft parts, are subject to long-continued pressure and fric- tion. These adventitious bursae usually form over abnormal projections of the skeleton, such as are seen in gibbosities of the spinal column, or on the outer side of the foot in talipes varus, where the structure of the soft tissues is such as is not calculated to bear pressure without injury, unless some elastic water-pad, such as a bursa, is interposed between the integument and the sub- jacent hard parts. Enlarged bursae have been mistaken for aneurisms, and many of them communicate with the neighboring joints. On this account, their injury, whether by accident or by the surgeon’s knife, has been some- times followed by destruction of the functions of the limb, or even by loss of the patient’s life. Development and Anatomical Relations of Bursae. A careful study of the mode of development of bursae, and of their anatomical relations, is of prime importance, and will render clear certain facts in con- nection with their diseases, otherwise difficult to understand. Anatomists are in the habit of describing two varieties of bursae—the bursce mucosce and the bursts, synoviales—the latter being ligamentous sheaths lined with a thin secreting membrane, in which the tendons play, while the former are simple serous sacs, which may or may not be in relation with tendons. Vascular fringes are present in certain of the so-called bursae mucosae, but there is no real histological difference between the two varieties. The diseases of the bursae mucosae will chiefly occupy our attention, although those of certain sacs which have been classed by some anatomists with the synovial bursae will be described. Bursae, from a clinical standpoint, should be again subdivided into two classes, (1) the subcutaneous, and (2) those in relation with the more deeply situated tendons, and, in consequence, often connected with joints. This is not a nice anatomical distinction, but one of practical import, since treatment which would be safe and appropriate to bursae of the former variety might, and often does, end most disastrously