820 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. as being the best means of its evacuation. This was the practice of Dupuy- tren, Nelaton, and almost all surgeons down to the present time. But it un- fortunately happens, that the pus is so infiltrated through the tissue in very minute canals, that the incisions do not evacuate it. This seems to be the only form of suppuration which is not relieved directly by the knife. The whole mass appears, when cut into, like a filthy sponge without its elasticity, and every surgeon must have observed that his incisions are by no means sure to arrest the extension of the disease, and much less its progress, in tissue already invaded. The advocates of incision urge the fact that surgeons confine their cuts too much to the obvious surface of the carbuncle, and declare that their success would be more marked if they were careful to ex- tend their cuts into and beyond its apparent periphery. And it must be acknowledged that, if undertaken at all, the operation should be thoroughly carried out. An objection to this method of treatment is found in the fact that, if executed in this thorough way, a considerable amount of hemorrhage can hardly be avoided. Inflamed tissues, when incised, quickly unload their vessels, and although bleeding is not apt to be continued for a long time, it is still often considerable. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, pressure should immediately be brought to bear upon each side of the incision, to diminish the flow as much as possible; and even with this precaution the operation may, in old and feeble persons, become a very grave matter. A modification of the plan of incision consists in the subcutaneous section of the carbuncle by a tenotomy knife, which, being entered beyond the edge of the induration, is pushed deep into the tissue, so as to be carried com- pletely under it with its back downward; and when the point has reached the centre of the carbuncle, the cut is made so as to divide the tissue up- wards into the skin, but without severing the surface. Four such cuts resemble the ordinary crucial incision, and claim the well-known benefits of subcutaneous surgery. The forefinger of the left hand will easily guide such an incision, and the hemorrhage will be but slight. This plan, brought for- ward by Mr. French, has been practised by himself and others for many years, and as it is claimed with great success, not only in the greater assur- ance of recovery, but also in the greater rapidity of cure and less destruction of tissue. This plan has also been varied by sweeping the knife around flat- wise, in order to secure the greater liberation from tension, and, as is claimed,, if practised early in the invasion of the disease, without endangering the vitality of the skin. A special modification of the plan by external incisions is insisted on by some surgeons. A case by Dr. Blackly illustrates this mode of practice:— He was called to see a broken-down man of sixty, suffering from an enormous anthrax covering the inferior portion of the scapula, and extending from its anterior edge to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It seemed too far advanced to be bene- fited by mere crucial incisions, and, after making them, he snipped away the whole slough with forceps and scissors, going as near the sound parts as possible without wounding them. He afterwards drew the edges of the wound together with adhesive plaster, and thus obtained pressure upon the edges. The relief was instantaneous and the cure rapid. This should be called the method by excision. The almost inevitable tendency toward sloughing has induced many sur- geons to anticipate this destructive process by the use of caustic potassa rubbed rapidly into the tissue. This plan shortens the period of suppura- tion and sloughing, and probably diminishes materially the danger of septi- caemia, by completing the destruction at once, and thus preventing the exten- sion of the poisonous fluid into the surrounding tissue, where it could be absorbed. The author tried the experiment, in a single case, of rubbing