520 SYPHILIS. Syphilis of the Olfactory and Auditory Apparatus. Olfactory Apparatus.—The mucous membrane, cartilages, bones, and nerves connected with olfaction, may be affected by syphilis in one stage or another of its evolution. The pituitary membrane may, in the earlier stages of the disease, be the seat of erythema, mucous patches, or superficial ulcera- tion, just as the buccal mucous membrane is the seat of such lesions. Some- times an erosion or shallow ulcer may be seen within the nasal orifice, sur- rounded by swollen mucous membrane, and rendering the ala nasi tender upon pressure. Plugs of inspissated mucus, mixed with blood and pus, fre- quently obstruct the passages, and are from time to time discharged. The character of these lesions is often difficult to make out in the absence of other concomitant syphilitic manifestations, and sometimes only their disappearance under anti-syphilitic remedies serves to show their true nature. Rhinitis.—In the later stages of syphilis, ulcerative syphilitic rhinitis, or syphilitic ozsena, is met with, one of the gravest of the ulcerative affections of the mucous membranes, and one which is all the more dangerous because so often mistaken for simpler and milder affections, until it has made irreparable ravages. At the outset, stuffing up of the nostril, with sensitiveness over the affected point, and some catarrh, is observed. From time to time dark spongy crusts covered with blood are expelled, together with an almost odorless, serous fluid, and also mucus. When it has extended more deeply, the affection gives rise to an ill-smelling, sero-sanious discharge, which becomes more fetid as the disease penetrates more deeply. If the affection happens to be seated near the opening of the nares, a roundish, elevated, fungous ulcer, usually covered with a yellow crust, can be seen on the nasal septum or within the ala. The rhinoscope is necessary to examine lesions further within the nasal passages. Whether the lesion begins in the mucous membrane and penetrates to the bone, or whether the osseous lesion is first in point of time, and the super- jacent mucous membrane only becomes involved at a later period, fragments of cartilage and bone are very apt to be denuded, detached, and discharged. In this case the discharge becomes blackish and extremely fetid, the sense of smell is almost or entirely lost, the mucous membrane in the neighborhood of the ulcers becomes swollen and painful, and the nose changes its shape, and, if the septum is attacked, becomes flattened. The ulcerative process may perforate the floor of the nasal cavity, extend into the pharynx, find its way along the Eustachian tube, and even penetrate the cranial cavity, involving the meninges; more commonly, however, the membrana tympani becomes ruptured, and purulent discharge takes place through the external auditory canal. Deafness may ensue from obliteration of the Eustachian tube by a cicatrix. The disease has been known to pass up the lachrymal canal, involving the lachrymal bone and even the eye (Bumstead and Taylor). Respiration through the nose is usually hindered more or less by the lesions described, and sometimes it is permanently pre- vented, breathing being entirely performed through the mouth, and the voice having a nasal twang. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment of syphilis of the nasal passages is that of the disease in general, and its nature must depend upon the stage of the affection and upon the character of the lesions. In addition to mercury and iodide of potassium, tonics and cod-liver oil are frequently called for. The most efficacious local treatment is by means of mercurial inhalations, a sufficient quantity of calomel or of the bisulpliuret or binoxide of mercury being heated on a metallic plate over a spirit lamp, and the fumes being directed