56 WOUNDS. no provision, or an insufficient provision may have been provided for drain- age, and, as a consequence, the wound may have been irritated by retained secretions, and possibly made to inflame by the tension which the retained secretions have produced. Harm may also have been brought about by the want of due attention to the dressing of the wound, and to its efficient protection from outside injurious influences. Other causes of non-repair may be the unsuitable character of the applications with which the wound is dressed, of the position in which it has been placed, etc. When the obstacle to natural repair exists in the subject of the wound, or in the surroundings of the case, it may be that it will be found in the age, tem- perament, or feebleness of the patient—as expressed by deficiency in the healing act, excess of pain, or inflammation of the wounded parts; in the unhealthy atmospheric condition of the chamber or residence in which the patient rests, as shown by unhealthy action in the wound, erysipelas, or septicaemia ; in the unsuitable character of the patient’s food ; in want of proper nursing, etc. Under any circumstances, the obstacle to repair will be found in one or more of these cause's, and it is for the watchful eye of the surgeon to discover the particular defect, in order that he may apply the proper rem- edy. It is well, however, for the studenMo recognize the fact that most of these causes are preventable, and that they are as a rule due to some want of care in the primary dressing of the wound ; let it be repeated, therefore, that in all cases, and under all circumstances, too much-care cannot be bestowed upon the management of fresh or recent wounds, to carry out the essential points of treatment to which attention has been so often drawn. Consecutive Hemorrhage or Recurrent Bleeding.—This form of bleed- ing is that which takes place within twenty-four or forty-eight hours after the reception of the wound. When it occurs, it is of little consequence whether it is to be attributed to some imperfection of the means employed to check the primary hemorrhage, or to the re-opening, during the period of reaction, of a vessel which had been temporarily sealed by a clot at an earlier period of the case. It has to be dealt with, and with decision. When trifling in amount, it need not be regarded with anxiety, and more particularly when there is room for the blood to escape through the drainage opening or tube, although even then it will be well for the surgeon to see that the wounded part is elevated and watched. If the bleeding vessel be a small or cutaneous one, these means will probably be enough. If, however, the bleeding is persistent, or if the parts about the wound swell, and become tense and pain- ful, and more particularly if pallor of the skin, feebleness of pulse, restless- ness, and other signs of collapse furnish definite signs and symptoms of loss of blood, the wound must be re-opened, the clots turned out, the source of the bleeding looked for, and the vessel secured. At times the mere opening and exposure of the wound will arrest bleeding, and, under these circum- stances, when the bleeding vessel cannot be found, it is well to leave the parts exposed for a few hours, and either to bring them together again when they have glazed, and when most chances of bleeding have passed, or to leave them open to granulate. The wound should, however, be left open under only exceptional circumstances: when the hope of quick union is very small, or when such union is undesirable. When the bleeding vessel has been found, it is to be secured, and the wound treated as a fresh one, and reclosed. At times, where oozing of blood is per- sistent, moderate pressure upon a wound does much good ; and this may be well applied by means of an ordinary, or a rubber bandage over a sponge or elastic antiseptic pad. Care must be taken, however, that the pressure be not too great.