CLASSIFICATION OF ABSCESSES. 259 Varieties of Pus. Pus may differ in various respects from the healthy standard described above, and we accordingly find it in the text-books termed sanious, when it is mixed with blood; ichorous, when it is acrid and produces excoriations where it flows; curdy, or flaky, when it contains flakes and masses of loosely coagulated fibrine; and serous, when it is thin and watery. If it be thought worth while, these terms may, as they are unobjectionable and sometimes, perhaps, conve- nient, be still retained, but the conditions which they indicate are mainly acci- dental, and scarcely specific enough to require separate names. As to the microscopic appearances of unhealthy pus, Sir James Paget remarks: “When pus deviates from health we find not only variations in the pus cells, but mul- tiform mixtures of withered cells, molecular and fatty matter, free or escaped nuclei, blood corpuscles, fragments of granular substance like shreds of fibrine, and other materials such as scales of cholesterine, crystals of triple phosphates, and free oil globules.”1 Classification of Abscesses. In attempting to classify the different kinds of abscess on a satisfactory basis, it seems advisable to make some change in respect to the terms hitherto in use; for such designations as lymphatic, congestive, and phlegmonous, cannot be said to convey any definite meaning, and the names metastatic and secondary are superfluous, since the abscesses they indicate are due either to pyaemia or septicaemia, and are better plainly termed after these conditions, pyaemic or septicaemic, as the case may be. Diffuse abscess is a phrase which involves something in the nature of a contradiction in terms, for abscess, by almost all authors alike, is defined as a circumscribed collection of pus; while to call an abscess emphysematous or tympanitic, is to encumber a general classification with matters of detail, which really belong to the chapter of accidental complications. In the first place, abscesses may be broadly divided into the acute and the chronic—two groups which present strong contrasts, in respect not merely to their rates of progress, but to their symptoms and tendencies, the various dangers incidental to their course, and the treatment by which they should be met. Between these two extreme forms, however, there of course exist examples of every grade of difference. Or, secondly, abscesses may be arranged according to the causes to which they are due. Such a classification, a very important one in reference alike to their pathology and treatment, would embrace—if we take, first, those which pro- ceed from some general cause—(1) abscesses which result from some defect of the patient’s health, such, for example, as may be induced by intemperance, hardship, or overwork, long residence in hot climates, or, in the case of females, pregnancy or too prolonged lactation; (2) those that are met with in the different forms of blood-poisoning—pyaemia or septicaemia (including that variety which occurs in the puerperal state); (3) those that are developed as the sequelae of the exanthemata—typhoid or scarlet fever, smallpox, etc.; and (4) such as are tuberculous or scrofulous. Of the remainder, which arise from some local cause, there are (5) those following injury, and conveniently termed traumatic—such as form in the scalp, in the various joints, beneath the peri- osteum, in bursae, and in the sheaths of tendons, etc.; and (6) abscesses pro- 1 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, 3d edition. London, 1870.