GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 185 the air tube ; and by the latter operation, if consequent upon inflammatory stenosis located sufficiently high to permit of the incision being made below the point of obstruction, or by the introduction of. a tube through the origi- nal wound. Tracheotomy, in all these cases, is quite likely to be followed by a fatal result, not because of the operation itself, but because of the con-, ditions by which it is rendered necessary. It was resorted to six times dur- ing our late war—twice successfully. In cases of lesion of one of the large bloodvessels, the resulting hemorrhage, whether primary or secondary, should be arrested by the application of ligatures above and below the wound, if such can be safely found ; otherwise, by compression. When it is an impor- tant branch of the external carotid that has been damaged, if it cannot be duly tied on either side of the wound, the ligature should be placed upon the external carotid itself, and not upon the common carotid. The ligature of the latter trunk is, as we have already seen, though easier of execution, much more dangerous and more likely to be followed by after-bleeding, and the operation should not be resorted to except for wound of this vessel itself. The internal jugular vein, when wounded, should be tied rather than com- pressed, though by methodical pressure hemorrhage from this vein has often been arrested. As has been before noticed, Langenbeck has advised in these cases that either both the common carotid and internal jugular, or, preferably, the common carotid alone, should be ligatured. Two objections have been strongly urged against tying the vein: (1) that phlebitis was likely to be developed, and (2) that cerebral damage would ensue from the resulting in- terference with the return circulation. The first objection is now known to have but little weight; and as respects the second, though cases have been reported of early occurring apoplexy after ligature of this vessel, yet by many experiments, as recently by those of Nicaise, it has been clearly shown that an ample collateral venous circulation may be expected to be rapidly established after ligation of the internal jugular vein, as also after that of the subclavian. Gunshot Injuries of the Chest. About one in twelve (at least one in twenty; of all gunshot wounds are of this region, and here, as in the head, the injury may affect the soft parts only, or the bony wall, or the contents of the cavity; and the gravity, aside from the comparatively few not immediately fatal cases in which the large vessels are damaged, is directly proportionate to the extent of visceral lesion. ]STon-penetrating Wounds.—Superficial wounds, even if of large size, un- attended by fracture, rarely cause death—in perhaps only one out of every two hundred cases—though, owing to the constant movement of the chest, healing usually takes place very slowly. Very long seton tracks are not seldom met with, the ball running around over the ribs; and on this account, an erroneous diagnosis of perforation is oftentimes made. Occasionally, and then almost always as the result of contusion by a shell-fragment, there is an associated serious lesion of the lung, laceration or rupture—a lesion which probably can only occur when the glottis happens to be firmly closed at the moment of injury. Such an accident generally, though not inevitably, proves quickly fatal; 25 cases collected by Otis gave 11 recoveries. When any part of the bony wall is fractured, the wound becomes one of much greater importance, not only on account of the fracture itself, but, in higher degree, because of any accompanying injury of the subclavian or ax- illary vessels, when the clavicle or scapula is wounded, and of the intra- thoracic viscera, the pleura, or the intercostal or internal mammary arteries,