398 GONORRHOEA. He explains the discrepancies by assuming that the authors who frequently observe urethritis include the chronic with the acute cases; but as chronic urethritis is quite rare in women, this hardly seems to me satisfactory. The explanation will hold good, how- ever, when applied to what I have said (p. 390) on the relative frequency of vaginitis, vulvitis, etc. I have there alluded only to the acute varieties of these complications, and have, as I have said, found them to occur with equal frequency, or with vulvitis rather in excess. Inflammation of the vagina is so much more apt to become chronic than inflammation of the vulva, which rarely does so, that a table like the above gives a very unfair idea of the relative prevalence of these varieties of gonorrhoea as met with in recent cases. Symptoms.—The shortness of the female urethra, its downward inclination from the neck of the bladder to the meatus, and the comparatively small amount of mucous membrane involved, prevent at the same time the forma- tion of any large amount of discharge and the development of any extremely painful symptoms. Ardor urince does exist in nearly all cases, and is sometimes quite marked, hut has never in my experience been at all comparable in severity to the same symptom as observed in the male. The proximity of the inflamed area to the neck of the bladder renders some degree of involvement of that viscus quite common, but although urination maybe much too frequent, the degree of tenesmus and the associated spasm and pain are less distressing than when cystitis occurs as a complication of male urethritis. In many cases the spontaneous emptying of the urethra by gravitation, or its washing out by the stream of urine, is so complete, that to obtain evidence of the existence of a discharge it is necessary to insert a finger into the vaginal outlet and gently “ strip” the urethra from behind forward, com- pressing it against the under surface of the pubic arch. This should be done some time after urination. Occasionally the meatus will be found red, pouting, or everted, and it is sometimes surrounded by a ring of vegetations. Jullien mentions the following diseases as possible sources of error in the diagnosis of urethritis in the female, giving with each its characteristic symptoms. Vesical Neuralgia: Frequent and urgent calls to urinate; vesical tenesmus, each drop of urine provoking the most agonizing spasm ; intense pain during catheterism ; no discharge ; urine limpid ; usually associated with anal neuralgia ; often occurs at a menstrual period. Vesical Calculus: Relatively rare in women, and above all in young girls ; antecedent history of gravel or gout; absence of discharge ; vesical tenesmus ; urine turbid or san- guinolent with heavy sediments; symptoms often intermittent; reflex pains in the thighs, lumbar regions, and genital apparatus; detection of calculus by vaginal exami- nation. Urethral Chancre: Easily seen if situated at the meatus ; induration of the urethral wall recognized by palpation ; discharge slight or absent. Vascular Growths or Polypi of the Urethra: Less common with young unmarried girls than with married women ; a pedunculated tumor easily seen when near the meatus; no purulent discharge; clear mucous hypersecretion ; occasionally hemor- rhage ; if the size of the growth be considerable, great hyperaesthesia; intense pain in the vulva augmented by pressure or motion ; a feeling of weight in same region ; reflex lumbar and femoral neuralgias; ardor urinse; painful coition ; general health depre- ciated. Uterine Gonorrhoea. The form of uterine inflammation set up by gonorrhoea is usually endo- cervicitis. In nearly every case in which the upper portion of the vagina is