568 SYPHILIS. General Treatment of Syphilis. Expectant Treatment.—A certain number of cases of syphilis run so mild a course that, even if left to themselves and entirely untreated, they would tend to spontaneous recovery. The observation of such cases has led a few observers to imagine that, the disease being in so many instances mild and benignant, no treatment is required, unless unusual complications should arise. But even in the mildest cases, such symptoms as do arise are, if untreated, apt to persist for much longer periods than if treatment were em- ployed, and patients thus deprived of treatment are apt to grow despondent and dissatisfied. In addition, it must be remembered that cases which may at first appear likely to run a mild course, not infrequently show severe symptoms at a later date. Considering, also, the fact that all, or nearly all, prejudice against the use of mercury has died out in the profession and among the public, there can exist no reason, in the vast majority of cases, why energetic anti-syphilitic treatment should not be employed vigorously in every case. Hygienic and General Tonic Treatment.—In order to treat syphilis suc- cessfully, careful attention must always be paid to the patient’s general con- dition and surroundings. Bad air, insufficient clothing, and scanty or im- proper food, often cause great aggravation of symptoms, which, under favor- able conditions, would be of comparatively little moment. This is strikingly observed in hospital practice in any of our large cities, where syphilitic patients, brought in from the slums in a deplorable condition, rapidly recu- perate under the influence of a carefully regulated diet and regimen. I am accustomed, in many cases where the patient’s condition is broken down and depraved, to avoid the employment of specific remedies for a time, even when threatening symptoms are present (unless the brain is attacked), and to begin treatment by the employment of nourishing diet, stimulants, and tonics, and I have not infrequently observed the happiest results from this procedure in cases which had been steadily deteriorating and growing worse under a strongly pushed course of specific medication. The patient under treatment for syphilis should live regularly, employ simple but nourishing diet, abstain from the free use of stimulants and tobacco, pay attention to the functions of the skin and bowels, and take as much exercise in the fresh air as circumstances will permit. Under the head of regularity of living, the careful restriction of the appetites and, particu- larly, the sexual desires, must be insisted upon. In nervous syphilis, above all, the consequences of venereal excesses are most deplorable. Persons who have been accustomed to the use of stimulants should not be deprived of alcohol in every shape, but may be treated with the bitter tinc- tures, such as the tincture of gentian and the like. A cheerful disposition on the part of the patient should be cultivated by the physician, not only as assisting the action of the remedies, but as tending to prevent that unfortunate melancholic habit of mind which is known as syphilopliobia, and which, when firmly established, is often irremediable. Per- sons suffering with this delusion fancy themselves incurably saturated with syphilitic poison, and at times, no assertion of his perfect health, given by the physician, will set the patient’s mind at rest.1 Examination of the blood of patients in the early stages of syphilis, shows chloro-aneemia, or a diminution in the proportionate quantity of red blood 1 Cases have been repeatedly reported of syphilopliobic patients Laving committed suicide.