SYPHILIS. 486 stages of early syphilis, occurring toward the sixth month, preceded by headache, often accompanying a fresh cutaneous outbreak, and going on to gradual development of the characteristic symptoms, without impairment of the intellect. Treatment in these cases should be prompt and vigorous. Administered in good time, specific medication is followed by rapid amelio- ration of the various symptoms, but a delay of even a week before beginning treatment may lead to very slow cure. Other nervous affections, such as paraplegia, aphasia, meningitis, and the various myelopathies, may occur in the early periods of syphilis, but as the symptoms then presented in no way differ from those displayed by the same affections when occurring late in the course of the disease, reference may be made to their description further on.1 Lesions of the Articulations and of the Synovial Cavities of the Tendons.—Described by the early syphilographers, the study of these lesions appears to have been overlooked in more modern times until a comparatively recent period. Richet,2 about 1851-3, recalled attention to the occurrence of syphilitic synovitis, and the transitory lesions of the articulations have since been studied by Lancereaux3 and Vaffier.4 One syphilitic in ten, among men, and a greater proportion among women, suffers even during the first prodromic period, before the appearance of the chancre, with vague rheumatoid pains, worse at night, and aggravated by rest in bed while somewhat lessened during exercise. These are still more commonly found in the early stage of generalized lesions. They begin by a period of general lassitude and fatigue, particularly upon waking in the morning; the limbs seem stiff, and are moved with difficulty; rest in bed is more tiresome than standing. At a later period actual pain supervenes, with morbid sensitiveness on pressure, in the wrists, shoulders, knees, or ankles. The generalized eruption appears at this time. Under the influence of specific treatment, or even spontaneously, these symptoms disappear, leaving occasion- ally some slight creaking in the joints. Poly-arthritis of a subacute character may occur after eight or ten days of prodromic joint pains. It resembles ordinary rheumatism so closely that it 1 The following references are given to facilitate the further study of this very interesting series of nervous phenomena of early syphilis :— Fournier, La Syphilis du Cerveau. Paris, 1879. Castlenau, Nevralgie Syphilitique. Cazenave’s Annales, t. i. p. 212. Marty, Paralysie du facial au debut de la Syphilis. Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1863, p. 473. Diday, Epilepsie Syphilitique. Giornale delle Malattie Veneree, t. iii. p. 46, 1867. Gros and Lancereaux, Des Affections Nerveuses Sypliilitiques. Paris, 1861. Little, Epilepsy of Syphilitic Origin. Med. Press and Circular, 1868. Mavreyeni, Scelotirbe sifilitico ; guarigione. Gaz. Med. d’Orient, 1868. Fournier, De l’Analgesie Syphilitique s^condaire. Annales de Dermatol, et de Syph., t. i., 1869, p. 486. Soresina, Sifilide del sistema nervoso ; macchie pigmentali su tutta la persona. Giornale Ital. delle Malattie Veneree, t. ii., 1869, p. 87. Moustapha-Faid, Troubles de la Sensibilite ; Analg^sie Syphilitique. Annales de Dermatol, et de Syph., t. iii. p. 318. Aparico, Tremblement Syphilitique. These de Paris, 1872. Gay, Cases of Secondary Cerebral Syphilis. Annales de Dermatol, et de Syph., t. v., 1873, p. 469. Bruberger, Ein Fall von Meningitis syphilitica nebst Bemerkungen fiber Syphilis der central Organs. Archiv f. path. Anat. (Virchow), Bd. xl., S. 235, 298. Mauriac, Memoire sur les Affections Syphilitiques Precoces des Centres Nerveuses. Ann. de Dermatol, et de Syph., t. vi., 1875, pp. 161, 265, 354, 427. Finger, Ueber eine constante nervose Storung bei florider Syphilis der Secundarperiode. Vierteljahrsschr f. Derm. u. Syph. viii. Jahrg., 1881, S. 255. 2 Memoire sur les Tumeurs blanches. Mem. de l’Acad. de Med., t. xvii. Paris, 1853. 3 Memoire communique a la Societe de Chirurgie, Sept. 1863. 4 Rhumatisme Syphilitique. These de Paris, 1875.