570 SYPHILIS. better to change it for another rather than to increase the dose to any con- siderable extent, which might, disarrange the stomach or bowels. The preparations of mercury which 1 am most in the habit of using are the pil. hydrarg. and the protiodide. The former preparation and the mercury with chalk are the two forms of the drug chiefly employed by Bumstead and Taylor, while the protiodide is preferred by Keyes. Whichever of these preparations is used, it should at the outset be given with caution, since the patient’s susceptibility is not generally known before trial, and salivation is to be avoided. The following formula is given by Bumstead and Taylor. I have used it, with or without the opium, in hundreds of cases, and consider it a convenient and practical prescription:— R—Fil. hydrarg. gr. xl. Ferri sulpli. exsiccat. gr. xx. Ext. opii, gr. v. M. Divide into twenty pills, one to be taken from two to four times a day. The following formula for mercury with chalk is given by Bumstead and Taylor R—Hydrargyri cum creta, gr. xl. Quinice sulphatis, gr. xx. M. Divide into twenty pills, one of which is to be taken from two to four times a day. The dose of the protiodide is from one-sixth to one-third of a grain, thrice daily. Given in larger doses than half a grain, it is apt to disagree, and to cause griping and diarrhoea. In order to prevent intestinal irritation, the protiodide may be taken half an hour after eating, or, if necessary, it may be combined with a little opium. The sugar-coated granules, as made by trustworthy pharmaceutists, afford a convenient method of administering the protiodide ; made as small as the one-fifth of a grain, the dose may be gradually increased and carefully regulated. The biniodide of mercury is a favorite form of administering the drug with many practitioners, among whom I may mention my friend, Prof. Duhring, whose extensive experience with this preparation in the treatment of syphilitic skin manifestations leads him to think very favorably of it. It may be administered alone, but is more usually combined with the iodide of potassium. The following formula, the time-honored Sirop Gibert, is one which I frequently prescribe:— R Hydrargyri biniodidi, gr. j. Potassii iodidi, 5j- ^ Aquae, f|j. Filter through paper and add Syrupi simplicis, f§v. M. Dose, a tablespoonful. Some patients object to the cloying sweetness of this preparation, in which ease water alone may be employed, or wine of iron may be substituted for part or the whole of the syrup. Occasionally it is found convenient to separate the mercurial and the iodide of potassium, in which case one may be given while eating, and the other half an hour or more after meals. The bichloride of mercury is not as frequently employed as formerly; nevertheless it is a good remedy, though it does not generally act as quickly as the other preparations mentioned. I usually prefer to prescribe it in solution, and commonly make use of the formula known as the “liquor of Van Swie- ten,” which is composed as follows:—