WOUNDS. 52 it was twenty years ago, and that of the many factors which have brought about this result, the employment of antiseptics stands foremost; and if we are not altogether indebted to Mr. Lister for their use, we are unquestionably indebted to him for the able and persistent manner in which he has both ad- vocated their employment and demonstrated their value. All honor, there- fore, to the name of Lister, for having helped, more than any one else, to establish the value of antiseptic drugs and antiseptic precautions in the practice of surgery, all over the world. Let those who smile at his theory, join with those who believe in it, in giving him this just meed of praise; and let those who do not believe in the efficacy of the spray, do their best to prove to those who do, that all the advantages of the “antiseptic system” can be obtained by simpler means than by its use. Amongst these means, what must be called the antiseptic irrigation of wounds, in my judgment, stands foremost. Antiseptic irrigation means the washing of a wound with an antiseptic solution, with the view of destroying any and every germ or element that might possibly set up chemical or fermen- tative changes in its secretions. It is as applicable to fresh wounds, acciden- tal or operative, as it is to the suppurative or foul, and it is as valuable as a preventive as it is as a curative means. In my own practice, the solution employed is, as has already been mentioned, iodine water—that is, a mixture of the tincture of iodine and water in the proportion of one part to thirty— and, after operations, this should be applied hot. It may be used by means of the irrigating bottle, described at page 26 (Fig. 208), or by means of sponging. When sponges are employed, they should be well soaked in this fluid, and subsequently, before the wound is dressed, should be used to absorb all excess ; for this lotion, when applied warm, has more power than any other of which I know, to bring about that desirable “glazing” of a wounded surface which is so valuable as a first step towards quick or rapid repair, and to check capil- lary bleeding. In suppurating wounds, the same lotion cleanses better than anything else, and has the power of destroying germs of evil, as well as other more vaunted germicides. For the irrigation of a chronic abscess, or sinus,, it is equally to be advocated; indeed, as a purifying and antiseptic lotion for all wounds of external parts, as well as for all suppurating cavities, it can be highly recommended. I have employed it for years past, as a purifying agent, but without germicidal intention, with excellent results; and although I have seen much of the spray and carbolic acid practice, I cannot yet see that its results are better than my own. Those who prefer carbolic acid as an anti- septic, can use it in the same wray, in the strength of one in thirty or forty; and thymol, boracic acid, chloride of zinc, oil of eucalyptus, or any other known antiseptic, may be similarly employed. The essential parts of the practice consist in the thorough ablution of the wounded or diseased part with the antiseptic solution,after the arrest of all bleeding; the drying of the surface of the wound as far as possible with an antiseptic hot sponge, applied with moderate pressure; and subsequently the careful dressing of the wound with some antiseptic substance, in the way that was described on page 33. Subcutaneous Wounds. When John Hunter, in 1794, in describing injuries, divided them into those in which the injured parts did not communicate externally—as strains, bruises, simple fractures of bones, or divisions of tendons; and those wffiich had an external communication—as compound fractures and wounds of all kinds;, and laid it down, moreover, as a law, that the injuries of the first class seldom inflamed, whilst those of the second commonly both inflamed and suppurated;