378 GONORRHOEA. have had no experience with this remedy as used in the gleety stage of gonorrhoea. It is unquestionably efficacious in the early stages. The “ cold-sound” (psychrophor), an instrument originally described by Dr. Winternitz, of Vienna, consists of a double-current catheter without eyes, the two canals communicating with each other near the point of the instrument, which can be intro- duced to the desired point in the urethra, and then attached by rubber tubing to a vessel containing fluid of the right temperature which is passed through the tube for a some- what prolonged period. In a few cases of hypersesthesia with persistent and frequent nocturnal emissions, I have found this instrument of great value. A few cases of chronic gonorrhoea also seemed benefited by it, but in these the effect may have been, as indeed it may in the others, merely a result of dilatation. My experience has not been extensive enough to justify a very positive opinion as to its usefulness. Keyes has found the psychrophor of use in cases of gleety discharge from relaxed urethras, without the presence of stricture. He employs iced water, allowing it to trickle through the cathe- ter for about five minutes at each sitting. In the chronic inflammations of the urethra, M. Mercier,1 of Paris, recommends injec- tions of nitrate of silver. If the spongy portion is affected, he uses a solution of one or two grains in an ounce of distilled water, making the injections in the ordinary way at intervals of from two to three days. In chronic prostatic urethritis he begins with these solutions, and gradually increases the strength to three or four grains to the ounce. He directs that the bladder shall always contain urine at the time of injection, so that the salt may be decomposed at once on its entrance into that organ, and calls attention to the fact that fluid deposited in the urethra anterior to the membranous portion will flow out of the meatus ; while, on the other hand, fluid injected beyond this point in- variably finds its way into the bladder. Dr. Vajda2 claims better results from continuous irrigation of the urethra than from any other method he has tried. He uses a perforated soft rubber catheter and a rubber water holder. M. Pasqua3 recommends, as an injection, a solution of chloral of a strength of about five grains to the ounce of rose-water. “ Two injections daily of a few minutes’ dura- tion have seemed to him sufficient. They produce at first a slight smarting and sensa- tion of pricking, which in two or three minutes give place to a pleasant coolness. From the third or fourth day of the treatment, the desire to micturate and the erections be- come less painful and less frequent, the discharge diminishes, becomes more and more clear, and ceases altogether about the eighth or tenth day.” Treatment of Gleet.—If now we find a patient with a true gleet, hav- ing had several previous attacks of gonorrhoea, or one which has been very protracted, and with dribbling after urination, etc., we should carefully examine his urethra with a bulbous bougie, when we shall probably find the condition described on p. 352, which is indicative of the presence of a sub- mucous deposit, or a “ stricture of large calibre” or commencing stricture. The importance of remembering that, in every normal urethra, the bulb of the instrument will meet with some resistance as it passes under the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, is such, and a failure to recognize this fact has been so frequent a source of error in diagnosis and treatment, that it seems worthy of reiteration. For the proofs upon which the assertion rests, I must respectfully refer to the article already mentioned (p. 357). Another source of error, already alluded to, is spasm of the muscular fibres occurring at some point along the urethra, and often imparting to the bougie the precise sensation felt in passing a stricture. The possible association of spasms of this character with strictures of large calibre situated anteriorly, should never be forgotten. 1 Du Traitement des Inflammations des Organes Genito-urinaires. Paris, 1877. 2 Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher, Bd. 188, No. 11. 3 Bulletin GenSrale de Therapeutique.