POISONED WOUNDS. 96 motic spots appear. Very marked symptoms of shock are soon manifested; fainting, giddiness, vertigo, loss of speech,1 dimness of sight, with clammy sweats and great terror; nausea, vomiting, intense weakness; rapid, feeble pulse and labored respiration. Death may occur in a very short time—less than half an hour in one case on record, forty minutes in another2—but oftener in the course of from live to forty-eight hours. When the struggle is pro- longed beyond this period, the symptoms just spoken of give way to those of the more ordinary forms of septic poisoning or septicaemia, and death takes place by exhaustion or failure of nerve-power. In these cases, it would seem that the venom, unlike the other animal poisons before considered, gained access to the system through the veins, and not by way of the lym- phatics, since the latter do not show any sign of special involvement; and the rapid onset of general symptoms would indicate that the whole mass of the blood was affected at once. But, as has been before said, in many instances the threatening symptoms either do not come on at all, or subside in the course of a few hours, some- times even without active treatment, at least of a scientific kind. Such is the case almost always in viper-bites; thus an account is given3 of a gentle- man, M. Dumeril, being bitten five times in the arms and hands by a very large viper; he fainted twice, and was very ill for twenty-four hours, but recovered perfectly. Dr. T. S. Savage relates4 * tw'o cases of the bite of the Cerastes cornutus (or nasicornis), a snake very much dreaded by the natives of South Africa, neither of which was fatal. And, from inertness of the venom, the small amount injected, or the failure of one or both fangs to pene- trate the skin, even the rattlesnake-bite is often sustained without causing death. Hence, as Mitchell8 points out, remedies are often vaunted which really have but little to do with the patient’s recovery. In some instances, as in one of viper-bite reported from Cyprus,6 the symp- toms induced by snake-venom strongly resemble those of phlegmonous ery- sipelas from more ordinary causes. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.—As to the pathology of snake-poisoning, we have not many positive facts. One thing seems to bewell established, viz., that the venom acts as a septic ferment upon the blood, breaking down its coagulating power, and disintegrating the red corpuscles. Whether the effect of the poison on the nerve-centres is direct, as Fayrer asserts,7 or whether it is a secondary result of the vitiation of the blood circulating through them, does not seem to be clearly determined. The post-mortem appearances may be briefly stated to be:—in the neighborhood of the bite, extravasations of blood, and softening of all the tissues; in the internal organs (the brain, spinal cord, and kidneys especially), more or less intense congestion, with ecchymoses in the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and fluidity of the blood mass. Dr. Lacerda Filho is said8 to have published, in a Brazilian medical periodical, the following conclusions, based upon experiment: “(1) The poi- son of the Crotalus horridus acts upon the blood by destroying the red blood- corpuscles, and by changing the physical and chemical quality of the plasma; (2) the poison contains some mobile bodies similar to the micrococcus of pu- trefaction ; (3) the blood of an animal killed by a snake’s bite, when inocu- 1 W. Ogle, St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1868. ! Shapleigh, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1869. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1852. * Ibid., Jan. 1849. 6 Op. cit. 6 Heidenstam, Lancet, Feb. 19,1881. 7 Indian Annals of Medical Science, quoted in American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1871. 8 British Medical Journal, Nov. 12, 1881.