GONORRHOEA. 334 occurrence of phimosis, and at a still later period disclosed by operation, in which all the so-called specific characters of the chancroid—the abrupt or undermined edges, the tendency to spread, the profuse discharge, etc.—were present. The diagnosis here is of no great importance, as treatment should be applied in either event on the same principles. Mild local measures suffice in both eases to cure the majority of sores; in those which continue to ex- tend or which remain intractable, cauterization with nitric acid is indicated both theoretically and empirically. The form of the initial lesion of syphilis known as the chancrous erosion, may be mistaken for a superficial balanitis. The period of incubation, the absence of urethral discharge, the abrupt limitation of the erosion, the pres- ence at its base of “parchment” induration, the enlargement of the inguinal lymphatics, and the lack of inflammatory element, are symptoms of the former condition which should render it easily distinguishable from a solution of continuity due to balanitis. Balano-Posthitis.—An extension of the inflammation from the surface of the glans to the inner or mucous layer of the prepuce gives rise to what is known as balano-posthitis, which has no special clinical significance, except that it is almost invariably followed by, or associated with, an inability to retract the foreskin, so as to uncover the glans penis. This is due to an extension of the inflammation to the loose cellular tissue uniting the two surfaces of the foreskin, which rapidly becomes cedematous, and in some cases is the seat of an effusion of plastic lymph. Phimosis.—The phimosis thus produced is an extremely objectionable com- plication, as it interferes with treatment, necessitates most vigilant and unremitting care as to cleanliness, and obscures diagnosis and prognosis. If the case has not been watched from the beginning, and the patient comes under observation for the first time with a vague history and with an oede- matous, swollen prepuce (see Plate VI. Fig. 1), from the orifice of which pus or pus and blood exude, it is not always easy to determine the exact under- lying condition. An indurated chancre can generally be discovered without trouble by its hardness, and is moreover not often complicated in this manner. A soft or chancroidal sore, however, or a balanitic ulceration, may not be so readily recognized. The main points of distinction may be tabulated as follows:— Phimosis from Gonorrhoea. No history of sore on glans or prepuce. Swelling in foreskin at first almost en- tirely cedematous. Discharge usually purulent. No definite area more tender or harder than the rest. Chordee often present. Ardor urinse extends along whole length of canal. Vesical symptoms not infrequent. Bubo very rare. Phimosis with Sub-Preputial Chancroid. History of sore. Swelling often due to presence of plastic lymph around ulcer. Discharge often sanguinolent. A distinct spot usually discoverable by palpation. Never any true chordee. Ardor urinse only when the urine comes in contact with the inflamed or ulcerated foreskin. No vesical symptoms in uncomplicated cases. Bubo common. It is not at all uncommon for patients who have had no experience in venereal disease to assume that a balanitis originating in uncleanliness, and i