WOUNDS. 58 drugs appears to be continuous. In other cases the subcutaneous injection of a small dose of morphia may be resorted to, or a full dose of the same drug may be given by the mouth. Under all circumstances, the early pain after a wound or operation is to be subdued. When the pain is persistent and continuous, after the healing process has progressed, or perfected itself, some nerve complication may be suspected: it may be that some nerve branch has been included in the ligature placed around a vessel; or some nerve trunk may be so involved in the cicatrix of the wound, or so bound to. bone or fascia, as to be kept continually irritated, or even inflamed; or it may be that no definite cause for the pain can be made out—when the case, for want of better knowledge, is regarded as neu- ralgic. When the cause of the pain can be determined, this should be removed, and when no cause can be ascertained, the surgeon may be justified in cutting down on the affected nerve, and stretching it; or in subcutaneously dividing it, as suggested by Hancock. As constitutional remedies, narcotics may be given, with tonics such as quinine, iron, and arsenic. Muscular Spasms.—The muscular spasms or twitchings which follow wounds, and more particularly amputations, can generally be prevented by the careful application of splints and well-directed pressure; they should be put down as preventible sources of distress, and should be guarded against in the early dressing of the case. Well adjusted pressure, with rest of the injured part, is the one thing to be relied upon to prevent and relieve this symptom, and it rarely fails. The judicious use of narcotics should at the same time not be neglected. Defects in the Healing Process, and Diseases of Granulations. Defects in the healing process may show themselves in either deficiency or excess of action, or in some morbid state of the granulating wound. Deficiency of Action.—In the old, and in the very feeble, whether from disease or otherwise, deficiency in the reparative power is to be expected ; since, for repair, a balance of reserved force at the bank of health is requisite, and, where such a balance is absent, the extra force required for healing will be deficient. Wounds in subjects such as these, consequently, simply fail to heal, or heal slowly, or in the worst way—the failure resulting from a want of either the right quantity, or the right kind of nutritive supply and nerve force. In wounds in which quick union is aimed at, the parts which have been brought together will simply not unite; and they will remain together only as long as they are held in position by the mechanical means employed for the purpose. In the young and in the middle aged, the same failure in repair is likewise at times seen in eases of harelip or other plastic operations in which quick union is needed for success; the parts do not unite by primary adhesion, but gape, and granulate, and the operations consequently fail. In such patients, also, fractures sometimes fail to unite as they ought, or unite but slowly, and this may be the case even when no definite cause for the deficiency in the reparative process can be detected. In all such instances, however, there is want of power from some general or local cause, which must be detected before treatment can be rationally or success- fully applied. In wounds in which union by primary adhesion is looked for, the failure may be partial or complete. When it is complete, the wound must be regarded and treated as an open one, and under these circumstances the sutures should