579 LOCAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. Labarraque’s solution, diluted with from three to six times its bulk of water, forms a good disinfectant wash in ozsena. Of other washes which may be employed in suppurating lesions of the skin, to stimulate to healthy action, lotto nigra or black wash, and lotio flava or yellow wash, are the most generally useful. The latter is much the more stimulating of the two, and forms an admirable dressing for suppurating gummata and tubercular ulcerative lesions. A still stronger, almost caustic, wash is the following:— R Hydrarg. clilor. corros. gr. iv. Alcoholis, f 3j. M. Th is should be used with caution on delicate surfaces, but is an admirable means of hastening the cure of moist papules. It may be rubbed without fear into the palm and sole, where the epidermis is thick. * Certain powders come into play in the treatment of moist and suppurating syphilitic lesions, prominent among which is iodoform. The disagreeable odor of this drug almost forbids its use in private practice, and its employ- ment in syphilis is now so well known that the individual who goes about smelling of it is a marked man, and might almost as well bear a placard about his neck worded “ syphilis.” I have observed such persons in passing them on the street. For this reason the drug should not be employed except in case of dire necessity, that is, in late, deep, or serpiginous ulcerative lesions, when we must strain every nerve even to keep the patient from relapsing and going back. In hospital practice iodoform may be used freely and with great advantage. When it gives pain, as it sometimes does, although ordinarily its effect is just the reverse—distinctly anaesthetic—the iodoform may be mixed with two or three parts of tannic acid powder. The following snuff is re- commended in the nasal catarrh of syphilis:— R Pulv. iodoformi, Pulv. camphorae, aa 5j- Pulv. acacias, 3ij- M. Other powders are those of calomel, and the powder of savin and burnt alum, used in vegetating syphilodermata after these have been carefully cleansed with Labarraque’s solution. The latter is composed as follows:— R.—Pulv. sabinae, 3j- Pulv. aluminis, 3iv. M. Tannic acid and chromic acid are also occasionally employed in powdered form. The latter should be used with caution, and only when a distinctly caustic effect is desired. The ointments employed in the local treatment of syphilitic lesions are very numerous. A comparatively small number, however, are in reality sufficient, and all beyond this are required only in the interest of variety or individual fancy, or occasionally to meet particular indications. The early generalized skin eruptions require no local treatment by oint- ments. The erythematous syphiloderm is unaffected by outward applications. The papular and pustular eruptions, as these occur upon the face, may, how- ever, be treated locally with a view to hasten their removal, and ointments may also be advantageously used for the speedier resolution of moist papules about the genitalia and anus. Among the milder preparations, ammoniated mercury ointment may be employed, as thus :— R.—Hydrarg. ammoniat. gr. xx-xxx. Ung. aquae rosae, gj. M.