BURSITIS. 695 diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue. In rare instances, the skin also gives way, when, practically, a wound of the bursa results. Subacute bursitis usually terminates either by resolution or by passing into the chronic form, although, when neglected, more acute symptoms may supervene, when any or all of the accidents attendant upon acute bursitis may be observed. The contained fluid resembles that seen in acute bursitis, but the changes are not so marked. Treatment.—This should embrace, if possible, quiet for the affected part, repeated light blistering, or painting with tincture of iodine—either alone or conjoined with firm pressure by means of compresses1—and proper con- stitutional treatment, should gout, rheumatism, or syphilis be suspected. Compression acts in two ways in producing absorption, viz: (1) Sufficient irritation is set up in the comparatively bloodless cyst-walls, to produce that degree of congestion which is favorable to osmosis, and, the pressure being per- sisted in after the removal of the fluid, lymph is thrown out which obliterates the cavity; (2) the over-full capillaries of the sac are emptied, so as to admit of absorption by the support afforded on the one side by the compressing body, and on the other by the closely confined elastic fluid. In addition, experiment has proved that pressure upon the fluid which is around the bloodvessels will favor its absorption. I am thus particular in giving these explanations because they render it clear why iodine, blisters, etc.—which simply increase the vascularity of the cyst-walls—fail when used alone, but when supple- mented by pressure often succeed. These measures are only likely to prove successful when the bursa is superficial, and manifestly for the reasons just detailed; since in a deep-seated sac no such pressure can be exerted through the superjacent parts as- will either increase vascularity or support the blood- vessels, nor can counter-irritants act for similar reasons. When the amount of fluid is such as to render it probable that only the prolonged use of the above-mentioned remedies will p-ove effectual, its with- drawal by aspiration, or by a small puncture or valvular incision, with the application of firm compression over the emptied sac, will save much time. When the cyst wall is thickened, such measures will probably prove unsuc- cessful, and in this event I would recommend the following procedure. After tapping the cyst under the spray, a seton formed of a few strands of prepared catgut should be passed through the bursa, and then a dressing of numerous layers of carbolized gauze should be applied. Unless the patient complains of pain, the dressing should not be removed for a week or ten days, when the ends of the seton will be found lying in it, the wound closed, and the bursa consolidated.2 Another mode of treatment is to evacuate the fluid by a val- vular incision, made with a tenotome which should then be used to scarify the interior of the sac, followed by the application of firm pressure. The ordinary seton, though usually a safe remedy, occasionally gives rise to serious conse- quences. When it is used, the patency of the lower opening should be carefully insured, so as to provide for efficient drainage. These methods are not appli- cable to bursae communicating with joints ; their treatment will be considered when we come to speak of the special bursae. Chronic Bursitis.—Usually of a chronic form at the outset, this affection may be a sequence of an acute or subacute bursitis, generally the latter. It 1 Sponge is an excellent means of applying compression. The limb should be first carefully bandaged, and the dried sponges should be then firmly secured over the part by another roller. When all is in position the dressing should be wetted, when the sponges will swell, and exert firm, uniform, and elastic pressure. a Roxborogh, Lancet, vol. xxxviii. p. 193.