EFFECTS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS UPON THE VARIOUS TISSUES. 121 lead in our own. From fixed guns and from the larger guns on shipboard, are thrown both solid and hollow shot, the weight of the single-shot and shell missiles employed ranging from seven to two thousand pounds. If it was true three hundred years ago, as declared by Pare, that a gunshot “ going with mighty violence pierces the body like a thunderbolt,” how much more so is it now, when a bullet fired from an ordinary Springfield rifle can be driven through 2 inches of pine wood, and from a long-range Springfield rifle through 5 inches of pine at 2500 yards distance; and when a ball from the latter arm is able to pass through 2 inches of pine and penetrate the sand to a depth of 6 inches at a distance of 2 miles (more exactly, 3500 yards). Effects of Gunshot Wounds upon the Various Tissues. Before proceeding to the consideration of the results, immediate and secondary, of gunshot wounds, it will be well to notice the general effects which they produce upon the various tissues that may be damaged. Skin.—If merely grazed, thei'e will occur either limited erythema with decided pain (“brush-burn”), slight contusion with associated blood-extravasa- tion, or such impairment of vitality as will be followed by the formation of a dry slough. If more fairly struck, there will be either penetration or con- tusion, according to the velocity and size of the vulnerating body. So great is the elasticity of the integument, that it may yield sufficiently to escape laceration, while there will yet take place extensive extravasation of blood, crushing—even purification—of the muscles, and comminution of bone. Such destruction is often produced by large shot, solid or hollow, or a massive fragment of an exploded shell, either passing lightly, but at a high rate of speed, over the surface, or striking only when nearly spent.1 Not infrequently it happens that a bullet, striking at an oblique angle, pierces the skin, runs underneath it for a greater or less distance, and passes out again, forming what has been denominated a seton-wound, the track of which is often indicated by a line of discoloration upon the surface. Fasciae.—In the passage of a shot through the superficial fascia, laceration and contusion occur, not confined to the part actually traversed, but extend- ing for a variable and often considerable distance on either side, there being seldom, if ever, when the wound is inflicted by a round ball, any actual removal of tissue, though a conical bullet carries along with it a greater or less amount of that which it has killed. In piercing the dense external layers of the deep fascia, balls, conical ones particularly, separate somewhat the crossing fibres, so that these fascial openings are of less diameter than the track generally, for which reason they more or less interfere with the subsequent outflow of pus. If of any considerable size, they oftentimes are not filled up in the progress of repair, but their edges cicatrize, leaving a permanent opening through which in after life muscular bulging readily occurs. Oftentimes fascial resistance will be sufficient to deflect "the shot, the angle of the line of new direction to that previously travelled varying according to the shape and velocity of the ball, being much greater in the 1 Macleod, for example, reports that at the Alma, “ a round shot 1 en ricochet,’ struck the scale from an officer’s shoulder, and merely grazed his head as it ascended. Death was instantaneous. The scalp was found to be almost uninjured, but so completely smashed was the skull that its fragments rattled within the scalp as if loose in a bag.” Under my own observation an exten- sive shattering of both bones of the leg resulted from the blow of a large piece of shell which did not break the skin, the case having been sent in from the field as one of contusion simply.