202 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. more or less complete, according to the locality and extent of the injury; and similar effects, confined to a limited area, may be due to lesion of a nerve soon after it has left the cord. At times, injury is done not by the missile itself, hut by bone-fragments, detached or adherent, driven in by the shot. Fig. 297. Fig. 298. Eighth, ninth,and tenth dorsal vertebrae, with conoi- Round musket-ball lodged in second lumbar vertebra, dal ball in vertebral canal. (A. M. M., Spec. 2939.) after traversing abdominal cavity without injuring the viscera. (A. M. M., Spec. 3349.) Meningitis, or meningo-myelitis, is the almost necessary consequence of any spinal injury other than the slightest, and is the chief cause of death in cases that survive the first few days after the receipt of the wound. A chronic form of inflammation may result even from contusion; but in most cases of the latter injury, the cord lesion is limited to concussion, which ordinarily is quickly recovered from. Diagnosis of Spinal Injuries.—That a vertebral wound has been received, is indicated by the apparent line of direction of the shot, by the resulting shock, by the development of nervous disturbances, by the discovery upon exploration of broken bone, and by the detection of such associated displace- ment as is pathognomonic of a fractured spine however produced. The first of these indications has no value except as confirmed by the others, since deflection may and often does occur, particularly if the missile is small; and the second is little if any more reliable, since shock may be very slight, as at times when a spinous process is broken, and, on the other hand, it may be present in an extreme degree when the shot, passing near to but not impinging on the spine, has wounded important organs in its vicinity. Nor can paralysis or pain, whatever their character, location, or degree, be accepted as proof positive of fracture; pain may be due simply to contusion, or may be alto- gether absent (except such pain as may follow the receipt of any gunshot wound), particularly when it is a spinous process that has been broken. The existence of the latter form of injury can usually be readily ascertained by manipulation, both preternatural mobility and crepitus being detected. Escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid is usually associated with, and so far indicative of, injury of the cord ; but such an outflow may take place when only the sheath has been opened. , Actual lesion of the cord from concussion, from compression, or from lacer- ation by bone or ball, is always, except occasionally when the injury is in the lumbar region, followed by disturbances of sensation and motion, of the same character as those resulting from spinal irritation, inflammation, or disorgan-