CONTUSIONS. 6 produced the contusion; or possibly caused by the mere presence of the blood itself. Whatever the process may be—and it is certainly an obscure one— the fact that tumors, benign and malignant, follow severe contusions, is in ac- cordance with the experience of many observant practitioners of surgery. Prognosis op Contusions. Unless the parts involved in contusions are important to life, or the injury is extensive, or fhe patient old or unhealthy, recovery usually takes place, and the parts are completely restored to their original condition. The prog- nosis, however, is not always favorable. If an internal organ, such as the liver, kidney, or bowel, be involved, the result may be quickly fatal. Con- tusion of the prostate gland, in the operation for stone in the bladder, is not an uncommon cause of death after lithotomy and lithotrity. In old people, or those of unsound health, a bruise may be followed by inflammation, suppu- ration, and sloughing, attended by great suffering and danger; or the effused blood may become decomposed, and the case end in septicaemia from absorp- tion of the poisonous fluids and gases thus generated. When the injury is severe and the ecchymosis extensive, contusion fre- quently terminates in abscess. The blood acts as a foreign body, leading to irritation and inflammation, which continue until suppuration, ulceration, and not unfrequently sloughing, take place. The discharge at first consists of decomposed blood, mixed with pus and the debris of tissue, but after a short time becomes like that of an ordinary acute abscess. Suppuration is most apt to follow contusions in feeble and unhealthy individuals, or in cases in which a breach of continuity in the skin has allowed the admission of air to the blood deposit. In persons whose constitution has been impaired by in- temperance, scurvy, anaemia, or other cause, severe bruises are apt to termi- nate in suppuration of a diffuse character. If, together with the contusion of the superficial tissues, some larger joint be involved, bloodvessels or nerves be ruptured, or bones be broken, the prog- nosis, is, of course, unfavorable. Contusions involving the periosteum are some- times followed by permanent induration and thickening of that membrane, at- tended by great tenderness and pain. Sometimes the 6ite of a bruise remains very sensitive for months without apparent induration or enlargement of the part. In such a case it is probable that some nerve has been injured. When the trunk of a nerve has been ruptured, or its fibres crushed, paralysis of the muscles to which it is distributed results, or the site of the injury may become the seat of severe and persistent pain, often neuralgic in character. Contusions occurring in people who have a rheumatic, or, still more, a gouty diathesis, produce much pain and trouble. A blow or fall upon the foot or hand, which would scarcely be noticed in a healthy subject, often provokes severe and prolonged suffering in an individual subject to gout or rheumatism. The same may be said of persons suffering from syphilis or scrofula. Contusions of periosteum or bone in such patients often end in active inflammation and its consequences. Treatment of Contusions. Slight bruises get well of themselves, and require no treatment. When the injury is severe, the first indication is to stop further extravasation of blood. Arrest of bleeding may have occurred spontaneously, before the arrival of the surgeon. If it has not, the best means of preventing further effusion are elevation of the part, rest, and the application of cold. In simple