SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 553 (2) In his statistics, based on the examination of 306 patients suffering with haut mal, without distinction as to their character, Echeverria1 has noted the occurrence of paralysis in 68 instances—about 22 per cent. Ho doubt this proportion would be increased, if non-syphilitic epilepsies were excluded. Nothing is more frequent, in fact, than to See syphilitic epilepsy complicated by paralysis. At first the attacks leave the limbs weakened and enfeebled for a time. This period of enfeeblement becomes longer and longer, the symptom itself becoming more marked, until gradually complete paralysis steals on. Cases are known, however, in which paralysis has super- vened at once after an attack. Paralysis of the motor nerves of the eye and of those of the face is very common in this form of nervous syphilis. Sen- sorial troubles, especially an involvement of the optic nerve, which can be recognized with the ophthalmoscope, are not uncommon as the result of syphilitic cerebral disease. Aphasia.—Aphasia is one of those symptoms of syphilitic brain disease which has been studied carefully in the last few years, without, however, much light having been thrown on the obscure points connected with the production of the affection. Pathological investigation in connection with the occurrence of aphasia has shown that this almost always results from a lesion of the left third anterior convolution. The exceptions to the rule are few and obscure. The symptom itself may take on any one of the forms and modifications which are met with in common aphasia. The prognosis of syphilitic aphasia is very variable. Coming on near the beginning of the brain trouble, and promptly placed under treatment, a nearly complete cure may be looked for ; some days of treatment by iodide of potas- sium work wonderful changes in the symptoms. Relapses of increasing severity are, however, apt to occur. Aphasia unaccompanied by hemiplegia implies a less unfavorable prognosis than in the contrary case. Discontinuity of symptoms is a favorable sign. When these begin to assume regularity and continuity, the patient is growing worse. Anaemic, Congestive and Apoplectiform Symptoms; Coma.—Cerebral gummata are frequently the centre and origin of more or less localized congestion. They may also give rise to anaemia by compressing an important vessel directly, or by augmenting the intra-cranial pressure generally, and thus closing some of the smaller vessels. Exudation may likewise take place as the result of pressure. It is of course impossible to separate these various conditions, and to decide which in any given case is the cause of the symp- toms observed. The earlier symptoms, which come on gradually, are those observed in ordinary cerebral disturbances of a similar character—transitory affections of the sensory organs, flashes of light, ringing in the ears, and decrease in tactile sensibility. At a later stage intellectual enfeeblement follows. At a more advanced period, the sensory troubles may be transformed into hallucinations. One of Fournier’s patients saw those about him standing on their heads, and the lamp-posts danced around him as he walked the streets. There is difficulty in coordination and loss of muscular sense, so that the patient cannot walk over a polished floor or descend a staircase without unusual precaution and anxiety, the symptoms being, in fact, similar to those of ataxy. These symptoms too often presage a more severe affection, apoplexy, which is very apt to supervene sooner or later.2 Maurice Mercier (see Ganul’s 1 On Epilepsy. New York, 1870. 2 See the valuable thesis of L. P. Ganul, Les Tumours Grommeuses du Cerveau, Paris, 1875, containing facts not elsewhere recorded.