162 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. cent.), though the death-rate of a few (14) late operations (which were, un- doubtedly, practically for disease, and not for injury) was zero. In our war, immediate exsection was slightly more dangerous (1 per cent.) than primary amputation in the lower third of the arm, and very much more so (8.1 per cent.) than removal in the upper third, though nearly 3 per cent, less fatal than that operation when required by elbow-wounds. After exten- sive investigation, Dr. Otis was compelled to write: “Although the point is open to argument, I fear that the substitution of this resection for amputa- tion effected no saving of lifeand the average mortality of the more recent operations during the Franco-German war was even greater than that pre- sented in Dr. Otis’s Surgical History. Expectancy.—In the cases treated by expectation during our late war, 938 in number, death resulted in hut 10.3 per cent. (96). This statistical state- ment is, however, of little value in determining the proper method of treating elbow fractures, since it was only in the less serious cases that no operation was employed ; had it not been so, American surgery would have proved be- yond question the superiority of expectancy. As it is, there has been for years past a growing feeling in favor of this method, when removal of the arm is not evidently necessary, and a conviction, as Lucke has said, that “ a large proportion of shot injuries of the elbow-joint may be treated conserva- tively, that is, without any operation whatever.” Of seventy-seven cases under the care of eighteen surgeons, during the war of 1870-1, only six died (8.6 per cent.). That a successful result may be secured, if “ Listerism” is not carried out, there must be removal of all detached splinters, thorough drainage of the joint-cavity, immobilization of the limb (which may he well effected by using an Esmarch’s bracketed splint (Fig. 263) having an elbow angle Fig. 263. of 130°), and moderation of inflammation. The free laying open of the joint, which has by some been recommended as a measure of prevention, should not be resorted to, unless necessary for the securing of a ready outflow of pus. If life is saved, and secondary excision or amputation does not have to be adopted—and one of these has unfortunately heretofore been required in a large number of cases, perhaps a third of all those treated by expectation-—- what is the after condition of the limb, and how does its usefulness compare with that of one in which there has been a primary exsection? Very seldom has recovery taken place with preservation of the motions of the joint, and not very often with no other functional impairment than anchylosis in good position. Even though flexion and extension are lost, pronation and supina- tion may remain, if the radius is uninjured and if only one of the other bones has been broken. Muscular atrophy follows, sometimes in high degree, and there may be persistent neuralgia. As a rule having not very many excep- tions, the arm that remains after gunshot wound of the elbow which has been treated expectantly, is functionally a much damaged one. How is it after excision—an operation which in civil life, and when per-