161 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE ELBOW. and its ultimate effects, is certainly a graver lesion than such a perforation as is met with in the majority of cases. Though usually the diagnosis of penetration is readily made, it is at times very difficult, or even impossible, to ascertain positively that the joint has been opened, without such an explo- ration as it would be improper to make. The 'prognosis of elbow shot-wounds is not specially grave, as far as life is concerned, the mortality being only about 20 per cent.; but as respects the functional value of the limb, it is far otherwise. Here, again, three methods of treatment are to be selected from, amputation, excision, and expectancy. Amputation, as a primary operation, is clearly and unquestionably indi- cated only when there has been great destruction of the part by impact of a large projectile; or when, in addition to the fracture, there Fig. 262. has been laceration of the brachial artery and the radial and median nerves, an ulnar-nerve wound being of comparatively little importance. When the artery only has been injured in connection with fracture of the humerus, surgeons generally are agreed upon the advisability of amputation; but some, such as Legouest, do not regard the operation as “ always indispensable.” The correctness of this opinion is still to be proved. “ Loffler’s assertion that surgical literature has not presented an example of recovery [with preservation of the limb] from shot fracture of the humerus with division of the brachial, remains uncontradicted.” (Otis.)1 Again, when there has been extensive comminution of the humerus produced by a bullet, and the splintering extends so far up into the shaft that the broken portion cannot be taken away with a reason- able prospect of preserving an useful arm, the limb should be removed ; since an attempt to save it will very probably end in the patient’s death from septic infection, or in disarticula- tion at the shoulder at a time when the individual is in very poor condition for any operative interference. • In all other elbow-wounds, the choice lies between excision and expectant treatment. Shot perforation of right humerus at lower third. (A. M. M., Spec. 4109.) Excision of the Elbow, from which in cases of gunshot injury so much was expected a quarter of a century or more ago, has certainly in large measure failed to accomplish what is desired, the preservation both of life and of a serviceable limb. Practised in any of the ways adopted in cases of disease, but generally by the straight posterior incision, it may be either com- plete or partial, all the articulating surfaces being removed, or only those which are actually damaged. It has been generally believed that a complete was decidedly preferable to a partial excision, being attended with less risk, and giving a better result as regards the usefulness of the preserved limb. Such was Otis’s opinion, and yet it would appear that the mortality in our war was 2 per cent, greater, and, taking together the four German wars and our own, 2-J- per cent, greater when the whole joint was excised than when only a part of it was removed (22.91 as against 25 per cent.; 23.07 as against 25.50 per cent.). The percentage of good “ end-results” was, however, 2.25 in favor of the complete operation. Primary excisions have resulted fatally in 21.59 per cent, of cases (84 out of 393), a mortality decidedly less than that of the intermediary (29.26 per cent.), and that of the secondary (28.48 per 1 In the very remarkable case under the care of Dr. T. Curtis Smith, in which the joint was extensively fractured with laceration of the brachial artery, the upper part of both ulnar and radial arteries, and the ulnar and median nerves, the articulating extremity of the humerus was laid bare but not broken. Excision was in this case successfully resorted to. VOL. II.—11