ANTHRAX OR CARBUNCLE. 317 acids as well as others benefited by alkalies. It is therefore clear that no specific has thus far been discovered adequate to the relief of the condition known as “ furunculosis.” Anthrax or Carbuncle. This inflammation is recognized by the peculiar form which seems to prove its specific character. Commencing in the lower layers of the cuta- neous tissue, it puts on at first the appearance of a phlegmon, but is not accompanied by the bright redness of this form of inflammation. It is a little rounded during its early stages, and shows a tendency at this period to the production of vesicles on its surface, but after being thoroughly formed it is flat, and raised above the adjoining parts like a table land, this feature being especially marked if the carbuncle is large. All doubts with reference to the character of the inflammation are settled by a careful inspection of the surface, which exhibits a tendency to suppuration around the roots of the lanugo hairs. As the disease progresses, numerous points of suppuration appear, and some will he found more advanced than others. I have counted upon a small carbuncle, a little less than an inch in diameter, thirty-four of these purulent points, and in the centre of each a lanugo hair could be dis- tinguished. As will be readily seen, such a condition does not obtain with a furuncle, nor with a phlegmon. The peculiar products of the inflammation seem to arrest the organization of the fibrin, so that a carbuncle does not retain the apparently small size of its beginning, but spreads from a centre both through the subcutaneous tissue and the skin, becoming at times enor- mously large. It still maintains its circular form, and is sometimes several inches in diameter—two to four inches being a very common size, while it is often very much larger. Carbuncles may appear upon all parts of the body—even the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands, which have usually been thought to be exempt, not always escaping. The most favorite situation, however, is the firm tissue on the nape of the neck and the upper part of the back. An inflammation of this kind, with its products pressing so severely upon the neighboring structures, and in themselves seeming to possess some peculiar, irritating property, naturally results in the destruction of the dermoid and the subcutaneous tissue. Hence the tendency of car- buncle is to the production of a large slough. It may be observed also that carbuncles are usually single, although cases are reported where several have appeared at the same time. The progress of carbuncles is not uniform, the inflammatory process being much more active in some than in others. The full process of sloughing, however, is apt to occur in the course of a fortnight, but at times it is delayed and con- tinued through many weeks. The depth of the slough is usually that of the skin and the subcutaneous adipose tissue, extending to the fascia. In an average of thirty-five cases in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, the time required for complete healing, or for healing so far as to permit the patient to leave the hospital, was about seven weeks. But when the destruction of tissue was large, several months were sometimes required for the completion of cicatrization. Of the thirty-five cases, ten were examples of facial carbuncle, and of these eight were in males. Of the twenty-five remaining, twenty-two were in males. In these thirty-five cases, the average age of those patients in whom facial carbuncle existed was 26.8 years; but in the other form of anthrax, it was 44.6 years. Carbuncle occurs also, without distinction, at all periods of the year, and in almost equal proportions in the temperate and well-fed, as in the intern-