665 PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. flammation is intense, as in Tinea sycosis, it is sometimes necessary to employ preliminary treatment before tlie proper antiparasitic remedies can be used. For the ordinary superficial circinate forms, a solution or ointment of the corrosive chloride of mercury (gr. ij to Ij), if the surface affected be not too extensive, may be applied twice a day as freely as the skin will allow with- out over-stimulation. Upon the face and other parts exposed to view, these may be used to advantage, because they do not discolor the skin. Iodine, as a tincture, or rubbed up with equal parts of iodide of potassium and glycerin, may be painted upon the afiected surface. Sulphurous or carbolic acid in solution, may also be applied with success, though less certain in their action. These should all be used much longer than the appearances seem to require. An ointment of chrysophanic acid or Goa powder (5ss or 3j to Ij) may be used upon parts protected by the clothing. When the disease affects the beard or scalp, and has already invaded the hairs, our remedies must be used for a long time, and in connection with epilation. Some such course as the fol- lowing may be used: at night, an ointment made up in varying proportions, but substantially as follows—Hydrargyri ammoniati 3j, creasoti gtt. xv, sulphuris sublimati Iss, adipis sen vaselini 3j—is rubbed thoroughly into, and a little beyond, the afiected districts. In the morning, this is washed off with soap—with soft soap if well borne—and epilation is then performed. Immediately afterwards, the officinal solution of sulphurous acid is sopped freely over the parts, which are then left to themselves for the day. The face will not stand as rough treatment as the scalp, and soothing oint- ments, such as those of zinc or diachylon, must often be used by day to counteract the over-activity of the nocturnal remedies. Quick cures are im- possible ; sure results are to be attained only by the long-continued use of the most active remedies, thoroughly applied. Even by such use, and long after the faith and endurance of patients and attendants have been tired out, relapses will often occur after treatment has been given up, because there has been left undestroyed in the deep recesses of some hair follicle a single spore of the many millions first attacked. Ho internal remedies have any direct effect upon the destruction of the fungus. The clothing worn next the parts affected should be soaked in boiling water, or destroyed, and the brushes, combs, and other articles, which have come in contact with the diseased skin, should be treated in the same manner. Tinea Versicolor. (Synonym: Pityriasis versicolor.) This disease is characterized by the presence of yellowish or dark-brown spots of irregular outline, but slightly elevated, and covered with fine scales which are easily scratched up by the nails, or removed by scraping with a knife. They vary in size from minute points to confluent patches covering large portions of the chest or abdomen. They chiefly affect the front of the trunk—beginning generally upon the chest—and may extend downwards so as to cover more or less wholly the abdomen, hips, and upper thighs ; may pass upwards to the shoulders, and thence down to the forearms; or may creep around the chest to the back. They rarely appear below the knees and elbows, or ascend upwards upon the neck, and they never affect the face. In other words, they do not generally grow upon those parts of the skin which are exposed to the air and light, finding rather upon those parts protected by clothing, the warmth, and possibly the absence of light, essential to the de- velopment of the plant, upon the presence of which the disease depends. It seldom, if ever, occurs upon children, which fact may be explained, perhaps, by the choice which the parasite shows for the dry and outer cells of the epi- dermis, those of adult life being probably better adapted in this respect to its