298 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. when gangrene had begun, and when the point of injury could be clearly defined. The crush in one case was by a large stone, and in the other by a rope drawn tightly around the leg below the knee. Perhaps in these cases, which were not presented to observation until several days after the accident, the delay may have accounted for the fatal result. There can be no doubt that the chances of preserving life where amputation is proper, in cases of spreading, traumatic gangrene, are very much increased by its performance upon the first appearance of the disease. This rule does not apply when ligation has been performed upon a healthy artery. I have known the whole amount of gangrene after ligation of the subclavian to consist in the loss only of the little finger. In this case, the collateral circulation became sufficient to supply nutriment to the whole arm and hand with this exception. If, however, injury of any degree of severity had been also inflicted upon the soft parts of the arm in connection with the ligation, amputation at the shoulder-joint would have been the correct prac- tice, upon the appearance of gangrene in the little finger. Hospital Gangrene. (Synonyms: Sloughing Phagedcena ; Pourriture d’PTopital.) This is the name given to a form of gangrene which attacks open surfaces, whether recent or granulating. It does not seem to have the power of act- ing upon uninjured parts, but any wound, however small, may become its seat. Its name is derived from the fact that it sometimes appears to arise spontaneously in hospitals which are overcrowded, and in which the sanitary arrangements are imperfect. Hence, it more frequently appears in military than in other hospitals, for in them both the requisite conditions are apt to be present after the confusion incidental to military movements. When it has once commenced, it seems to be able to spread, even in places where good sanitary arrangements are maintained. The affection is unknown in the modern hospitals of civil life, and yet when the soldiers, during our last war, were introduced into the best of these, it was found that the disease was readily communicated to the patients already there. Symptoms of Hospital Gangrene.—The signs of invasion are exhibited by the covering of the surface with sloughs. The disease will often show itself upon one portion, perhaps only the edge, of the wound, and will thence ex- tend over its whole surface. The sloughs are of varying consistence, coincid- ing with the strength of the tissue involved. The sore swells rapidly, and is, at first, of a livid, red color, and afterward, grayish, or black, with a tendency to become circular, and the whole surface is covered with a grayish or a brownish exudate flecked with black spots, and bleeding readily upon being touched. The pain is apt to be severe, burning and aching, and sometimes lancinating. When a large wound, like that of an amputated thigh, becomes involved, all the tissues, the muscles, vessels, bones, and aponeuroses suffer from the gangrene. But this disease has a tendency to spread in the areolar tissue more rapidly than in those that are firmer. When we look at the skin, and observe its line of dark gray extending for less than half an inch from the edge, we do not recognize the fact that the extension of the disease is still greater in the tissue below. It creeps up between the fascia and mus- cles to a point beyond the surface exposed. The general symptoms are those observed in other forms of gangrene. The patient is uneasy, anxious, and complaining of the great suffering in his sore. The pulse is slightly quickened, though often very rapid, the temperature a