I CONTUSIONS. with distinct pulsation. The blood accumulation thus formed may, according to the character of the tissues in which it is placed, be circumscribed, or spread over a large surface, and may, after a time, settle by gravity to the most dependent position. Medico-legal Import of Extravasation and Ecchymosis.—"When a blow or other injury is inflicted on a body after death, venous blood in small quantities may be effused under or upon the skin, but not into the substance of the cutis vera. When the extravasation is extensive, or the skin thickened, having greater firmness and tenacity from infiltration of blood, it is fair to conclude that the injury has been received before death. This condition of the true skin, while not necessarily present in every case of contusion in the living, cannot be produced by blows upon the dead body. An ecchymosis following an injury received during life, may not make its appearance until some hours after death ; or a small bruised patch, seen during life, may increase in size after death. A contusion received some hours or days before death, may often be recognized as an injury of some duration by the changes which have taken place in its color, the borders of the ecchymosed patch having become lighter and faded, and portions of the bruise looking greenish or yellow. It is well to recollect, in medico-legal investigations, that a severe blow is not always followed by visible discoloration. The injury may have been sufficient to cause death, and yet no mark of violence may be seen on the skin or subjacent tissues. It should also be remembered that a very slight contusion, causing little or no pain, may produce extensive ecchymosis in purpuric individuals, or in “ bleeders,” or in persons who have a large quantity of subcutaneous fat. Discoloration often makes its appearance in a few moments after the in- jury has been inflicted. Sometimes, however, several days pass before it is seen, and when this is the case it indicates a deep-seated lesion. After frac- tures, discoloration is frequently not seen until two or three days have elapsed. The ecchymosis may reach its full extent in a few minutes, extravasation of blood and exudation of bloody serum ceasing soon after the blow; or it may go on for several days, gradually extending for some distance under the skin. The discoloration at first may be black, or a deep purplish-blue, or, in some cases, pink or crimson. Blackness usually indicates a severe in- jury and extravasation of pure blood ; various shades of purple or blue are produced when blood is mixed in different proportions with blood-stained serum ; a pink or crimson hue shows that the ecchymosis is superficial, and that oxygen from the atmosphere is admitted through the thin epidermis or mucous covering of the part. We see examples of the latter condition in ecchymosis of the eye, where the crimson color contrasts strongly with the deep blue or black bruise of the lids and surrounding soft parts, after injuries in that region ; and in the pink or red color of a superficial blood-blister just below the epidermis; when the contusion is more deeply seated, the blister is black. The discoloration changes in ordinary cases after the lapse of one or two days. Gradually it becomes lighter, changing from black, or blue, to an olive-brown; then to a greenish-yellow; and finally to a lemon hue, after which it disappears. These changes in color are probably due to the influ- ence of air and light upon the extravasated material, as in deeper parts— among the muscles for instance—the shade of color is always that of either venous or arterial blood, or of a mixture of these fluids. Vesicles or blebs filled with bloody serum not unfrequently follow bruises, and, when the discoloration is black or purple, the appearance of the part re- sembles that of gangrene. Tbe phlyctense of mortification, however, are filled with putrid serum; and as the scarf skin is detached for some distance around