196 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. disadvantage of, at times, melting down before the union is sufficiently firm to be permanent. If protrusion of an uninjured portion of omentum or bowel has occurred, and the case is seen when the parts are only congested, the hernia should be re- duced, the parietal wound being enlarged if necessary, and being afterwards firmly closed by compression or with stitches, so as to prevent reprotrusion Fig. 288. Gunshot perforations of ileum closed with sutures. (A. M. M., Spec. 4390.) which is otherwise very likely to occur. If strangulation has taken place, the knuckle of intestine is to be returned within the cavity, or not, according as its vitality is or is not likely to be maintained ; the omentum should be left in place, though the great mass of the protrusion may very properly be liga- tured and cut away. This plan of treatment should also be adopted in cases of hernia of portions of the liver, spleen, kidney, or pancreas. When an artificial anus has been formed, an attempt should always be made to close it, since, even if the operation should be unsuccessful, there will generally follow a marked reduction in the size of the opening, and the after condition of “ fecal fistnla” will be much less annoying. If necessary, the intestinal ends may be retrenched, and then sutured together,1 or the upper end Fig. 289. Fig. 290. Suture of bowel by Jobert’s method ; the threads are in place, and the mesentery dis- Upper end of bowel invaginated withm inverted lips of sected preparatory to invagination. lower end. (Jobert s method.) may be simply invaginated within the lower, as in Jobert s method (Figs. 289 and 290). If an eperon, or spur-like septum, is present, which is much less 1 In a case reported by Kinloch, of Charleston, S. C., in which this was done, half an inch on one side of the opening and two inches on the other having been removed, the continuity ot the bowel was in a week later so well re-established, that the patient had a feculent stoo pei i ec umt though this channel had been previously unused for seven months.