289 SKIN-GRAFTING IN THE TREATMENT OF ULCERS. mis peeled off from any part of the body, and with thin shavings taken from corns. He prefers the latter material to any that he has tried, and his results have been as good as I have ever seen where more deeply-cut grafts have been used. During the winter of 1879-80, Dr. E. Fischer, of Strasbourg,1 experimented upon skin-grafting by what may be called the bloodless method : an artificial anaemia of the limb to be grafted is produced by the application of Esmarch’s elastic bandage, taking especial care to avoid disturbing the granulations. The elastic rubber tube is then adjusted, the bandage removed, the grafts ap- plied, and the dressing completed by a protective of silk, which is fixed in place by strips of adhesive plaster, and covered by a layer of muslin and one of sheet gutta-percha, and a gauze roller. The grafts are taken from an ampu- tated leg, to which Esmarch’s bandage has been applied either before the amputation or immediately afterwards. They are cut in the form of thin strips, from two to three centimetres in width and of any desired length, cut- ting always in the thickness of the cutis, and never including any of the sub- cutaneous tissue. These large dermo-epidermic grafts are said, as a rule, to adhere perfectly to the granulating surface, and without the separation of the epidermis which generally occurs in skin-grafting. For success in skin-grafting, it is essential that the granulating surface be in a proper condition. If any debris of dead connective tissue remains min- gled with the granulations, if the discharge from the granulating surface is profuse, or if the granulations are large, irregular, and very vascular, the surface is not in the best condition for planting grafts. If we carefully ob- serve an actively healing wound, we shall see, at the margins where the process of eutification is going on, a border of smooth, granulating tissue, from which there is little or no secretion, and over which the new epithelium is rapidly extending. Such a smooth condition of the general surface of the ulcer is favorable for grafting. If the granulations are rapid in growth, with abundant formation of pus, they may be repressed, and the secretion dimin- ished, by a dressing of lint wet with a one per cent, solution of carbolic acid, covered with oiled silk, and secured by a snugly applied bandage. Fig. 311. The manner of grafting, and the dressing and after-management, have much to do with the success of the operation. If small bits of skin are used, they may be most conveniently placed in rows across the ulcer, at right angles to the length of the limb, and covered with strips of sheet nutta-percha just wide enough to cover the grafts; the ends of the strips, which should he long enough to extend beyond the margins of the ulcer, are then moistened with 1 Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. xiii. VOL. II.—19