211 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Treatment.—As in injuries of the upper extremity, the primary question, as respects treatment, is whether or not an attempt to save the limb can be made with reasonable prospect of a successful result, or at least with as much probability of preserving life as if amputation were performed ? This ques- tion must be answered in the negative in cases of cannon-shot smash, and in those, in civil life, in which a small-shot charge has produced extensive lace- ration of the soft parts, comminution of the hone, and division of the main vessels or nerves. In cases of bullet flesh-wound, any other than the expec- tant treatment can be, at first, necessitated only by division of the femoral or popliteal vessels; and though, under such circumstances, there would be great danger of subsequent gangrene, and though intermediary operations are much more fatal than primary, few surgeons would be willing to do otherwise than apply ligatures and wait. Even if the femoral artery and vein were both wounded high up, a condition ‘‘that might be considered as absolutely necessitating immediate amputation,” the patient’s condition would probably be so feeble, from loss of blood, as to forbid an operation as grave as either disarticulation at the hip or amputation in the upper third of the thigh. When the femur has been broken, whether or not amputation must be practised will depend upon the character of the fracture, its extent, its com- plications, and the necessity or otherwise of an early transportation of the patient from the place at which he has been wounded. If the shattering has been great, and the fragments are widely separated, with much accom- panying tearing of muscle, primary amputation should be adopted, especially if the injury is located below the middle of the shaft; since, otherwise, the chances of recovery are but few, and, even if the patient survives, the pre- served member is likely to be of little functional value, while very often necrosis will follow and ultimately compel removal of the limb, or prolonged suppuration may give rise to fatal visceral lesion. Associated injury of the femoral or popliteal artery or vein has generally, and with good reason, been held to indicate immediate amputation; hut this operation is not always absolutely necessary, since experience has shown that after ligation of the vessel, gangrene may not occur; that repair of the osseous lesion may not be interfered with ; and that, as in the case reported by Jobert (de Lamballe), the wound may heal with even less than the usual inflammation. If both artery and vein together have been divided, immediate amputation should if possible be performed above the level of the bone injury. If the bone is only fissured, and this is likely to be the case in very many of the pistol-ball wounds of civil life, and in a considerable proportion of the injuries caused by the modern, elongated, conoidal bullet, the treatment should be by expectancy; the untorn periosteum serves to hold the fragments well in position, so that repair may take place rather quickly, if the develop- ment of osteo-myelitis can be prevented. Even in cases of comminution of moderate extent, by the early removal of detached splinters; by thorough drainage, with or without counter openings, according to the circumstances of the individual case; by immobilization of the whole extremity with plaster-of-Paris or wire splints;1 by methodical compression over thick layers 1 Decided advantage, as respects both the comfort of the patient and the ease with which the necessary dressings can be applied, will often result from suspending the immobilized limb. If immobilization is not made, as it always should be in one way or another, the treatment by suspension is very much better than any other, and some such apparatus as Smith’s “ anterior” splint or, preferably, Hodgen’s splint should be employed. In leg-fractures, also, suspension is of much value. If any extending force or weight is put on in cases of comminution, it should be but a light one, simply steadying the parts.