696 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS.®. is, as might be expected, usually excited by a slight but prolonged or per- sistently recurring irritation, such as pressure or friction, or both combined. Gout, rheumatism, syphilis, and plumbism play no unimportant role in the causation of chronic bursitis. Without recognizing this fact it will he im- possible to cure certain cases. The effused fluid gradually becomes thicker, until it finally resembles synovia. Again, a brownish or greenish sticky fluid is found, containing a variable proportion of chlolestearine. Blood is fre- quently present, either recent and unchanged, or old and altered, rendering the fluid grumous, or full of a substance like coffee grounds. So-called “ melon-seed” bodies are usually found in varying numbers. They probably arise from three sources. (1) The terminal portions of the vascular fringes which are present in certain of the bursae become hypertrophied. Their pedicles become elongated and thinned, so that the ordinary movements of the parts rupture them, when they become free. This origin is demonstrated by the appearances presented on microscopic examination, when the spot corre- sponding to the site of the pedicle is seen to be unprovided with the epithelial covering which is elsewhere present. (2) A second source is from masses of lymph, or clots of blood, which, either torn off from the walls or floating free in the fluid, become moulded by mutual pressure and friction. (3) Rokitansky maintains, from the concentric arrangement of the lamellae which some present, that they are formed by the successive deposition of layers of lymph from the more fluid portions of the effusion. They usually consist either of pure amorphous fibrine, or of a compact connective-tissue substance, occasionally mixed with eholestearine. In rare instances they may be formed of imper- fectly developed cartilage, when, of course, their source is the fringes before mentioned, which sometimes contain cartilage cells.1 The centres of certain of the larger fibroid bodies are soft, or have actually liquefied, thus giving rise to the idea that they are hydatids, as Dupuytren called them. It is commonly said that the presence of the melon-seed bodies can be detected by the peculiar crackling produced by their mutual friction when the tumor is handled. This is not an infallible sign, since inflamed serous membranes frequently give rise to a similar sensation upon manipulation, when we know that such bodies are not present. Acting much like foreign bodies, they mechanically excite recurring attacks of inflammation. Although not absolutely incapable of removal by absorption, in the majority of cases they are practically so. It is then clear that their recognition is of import- ance. Their removal is usually imperatively demanded to insure a permanent cure, while in their absence a different and less severe plan of procedure will often suffice. Both in subacute and chronic bursitis, an injury may give rise to the sudden effusion of blood, converting the tumor into an hematocele. If accompanied by marked ecchymosis of the surrounding parts, this condition may be suspected, but I know no means of positively determining its exist- ence. A blow or any injury frequently gives rise to an acute attack, which may result in sloughing of the thickened bursa. The bursal walls are thickened in differing degrees, usually in proportion to the duration of the disease and the amount of irritation to which the tumor has been subjected. In old neglected cases, where continuous irritation of a low grade has long existed, the sac becomes almost obliterated, and upon section looks not unlike a cured aneurism with its concentric layers of fibrine. One or more central cavities remain, traversed by delicate bands or imperfect membranous septa, produc- ing a reticulated appearance, the cells being filled with either a serous or 1 At least Cornil and Ranvier describe such in the synovial fringes of joints, with which the fimbriae of bursae are analogous.