363 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. (2) The patient should carefully and consistently avoid the companionship of women of any class, as under the circumstances there is apt to be an exal- tation of sexual impulse which renders even the mere proximity of females more or less provocative of erections, or at least of a very harmful hyper- femia of the parts. He should also, of course, endeavor to avoid lascivious thoughts, which, often engendered by the genital irritation already existing, react unfavorably upon it. Believing that functional rest is no less desirable in this ailment than in all other cases of acute inflammation, I do not hesi- tate to dwell upon the importance of this advice, or to urge upon the patient its strict observance. (3) In order to render the urine as bland and innocuous as possible, rigid attention to certain dietary rules is indispensable. A skimmed-milk diet is beyond all question the one best adapted to this stage of the disease, and there is no patient who cannot, with a little self-denial, adhere to it for several days, or until all the more marked symptoms have subsided, and that without any very great inconvenience. A few farinaceous articles, or a little stale bread and butter, may be added if the feeling of hunger be obtrusive, but the more nearly the diet is made to consist of skimmed milk, the more likely is it that the patient will escape the severe ardor urinse and troublesome chordee of the first week or two. Here again, however, the natural anxiety to conceal the disease operates unfavorably. Very few men are so situated that they can make such sudden changes of diet without exciting unpleasant attention and criticism, and in most cases we are compelled to be content with a modifica- tion of their ordinary regimen. Instruct the patient then to reduce his animal food to the minimum, to avoid all greasy, fried, or highly seasoned articles, to abstain from the use of pepper, of vinegar, of salt, ot coffee, and of tea. Salad dressings, asparagus, in or out of season, acid fruits, tomatoes, strawberries, etc., pastry of all kinds, and indeed any article of food difficult of digestion, should be strictly pro- hibited, as should all malt, vinous, and spirituous liquors. Bumstead interdicts the use of tobacco during the different stages of gonorrhoea, or permits it only in extreme moderation. The reasons he gives for this, however, are very unsatisfactory, as he refers1 to cases of spermatorrhoea in which the symptoms were aggravated by smoking and chewing. The relaxing and sedative, and it may be added, anaphrodisiac, effects of tobacco, it seems to me, rather indicate its employment in the inflammatory stage, and I certainly have never seen any reason to think it did harm. Jullien,2 after quoting Bumstead, and alluding to two cases in which tobacco was said to have been hurtful, published by Dr. Shipley,3 adds “We hasten to say that these statements are absolutely unechoed by French specialists.” The patient should he expressly warned against the use of beer and cham- pagne, the two most hurtful, as well as most common, beverages among men of this class, and he should also be informed of the fallacy of the current opinion that gin, by virtue of its diuretic properties, is rather beneficial than otherwise. If for purposes of concealment it is absolutely necessary that he should go through the form of drinking something containing alcohol, the least harmful article is probably weak claret and water. Apollinaris, seltzer, or soda waters are permissible drinks, and may be taken in large quantities, serving then the double purpose of diluting the urine and at the same time reducing the appetite, so as to render more easy the observance of moderation in eating.4 1 Op. cit. p. 57. 2 Op. cit. p. 50. 3 Bost. Med. and Surg. Journal, November 22, 1860. 4 Zeissl forbids not only beer and champagne, but all drinks containing carbonic acid in a nas- cent state, as he says that this gives rise to dysuria. (Medical Times and Gazette, Feb. 21,1880.)