ABSCESSES. 262 Fluctuation.—In any situation where the presence of matter is suspected, the fingers of either hand are placed on the surface at different points, and pres- sure is made alternately with the right hand and with the left, in order to ascertain whether a wave of fluid can he felt passing from one hand to the other with perceptible bulk and elasticity; or, in other words, whether there is a collection of fluid which can be displaced with the fingers of the right hand, and be made to rise as an elastic swelling beneath the fingers of the left, and vice versa. The manner of using this test varies in different cases. In small superficial abscesses, only one finger of each hand is employed, and these are placed only half an inch apart, and very light pressure is used. While in large abscesses deeply placed, as for instance under the glutei, or among the muscles of the thigh or calf, several or all the fingers should be placed flat on the surface, and be kept applied with some degree of firmness while each is used alternately with the other to produce an interchange of pressure and partial relaxation. Abscesses in which fluctuation is most distinct, are those which are large and near the surface, and covered only by thin and pliant soft parts—a typical instance being that form of chronic abscess which is so often seen in connection with disease of the spine or hip-joint. It is very distinct also in even small abscesses, if they are quite superficial. But, on the contrary, where the collection is small, and at the same time deeply placed, no fluctuation can be obtained, especially where the superficial parts are firm and brawny, and where parts forming the background of the abscess—the parts, in other words, on which it rests—are soft and yielding. This is the case in many abscesses in the ischio-rectal region. Here fluctuation is ob- scured not only by tough and brawny skin, and a thick layer of firm subcu- taneous fat, but also by the yielding nature of the structures forming the side of the bowel with which it is in contact, and which, instead of opposing a firm base against which the abscess may be held while it is pressed to and fro with a wave-like motion, through the interval between the fingers, allows it to recede and thus elude manipulation. Again, in the armpit, where mat- ter lies beneath the strong axillary fascia, and rests on the fat and loose cel- lular tissue in the deeper part of this space, no fluctuation can be detected even though the collection of pus be considerable. Thus, although fluctuation is a highly characteristic symptom of abscess when it is present, there are many cases in which, though matter has formed, no fluctuation can be obtained. It is the more important to bear this in mind, because the cases in which it is difficult or impossible to detect fluctuation are precisely those in which it is most necessary to evacuate pus as soon as it has collected—as, for instance, in abscess by the side of the neck, in the armpit, in the popliteal space, in the deep part of the mammary gland, in the perineum, by the side of the bowel, etc. (Edema with Pitting on Pressure.—In a case of acute inflammatory swelling, if the finger is placed on the most prominent part of the surface, or where the skin is ruddy or dusky, and pressure is maintained for a few seconds— and if, when the finger is removed, it is seen to have left an impress in the form of a distinct though shallow and flattened pit, with a sharp, clearly- defined border—here is very strong evidence that suppuration has occurred. This proceeding, though it may give much pain if the extreme end of the finger is suddenly and heavily thrust down on the swelling, especially if the nail be allowed to touch the part, may be rendered quite painless if the flexor aspect of the finger be used, and if care be taken that pressure, light at first, is only gently and moderately increased. The value of this symptom of “ pitting on pressure” is sometimes overlooked, yet it may often be depended upon to disclose the presence of pus when no other evidence of its formation can be obtained.