COMPLICATIONS OF ABSCESSES. 267 which the urethra and rectum are thus involved, are treated of in the articles devoted to diseases of those regions. Should an abscess burst into the oesophagus, no serious mischief need usually be anticipated. Retro-pharyn- geal collections of matter, arising from disease of the spine, or whatever other cause, may burst, discharge, and heal without serious trouble. The discharge of an abscess into the peritoneal cavity, as, for instance, in suppuration around the appendix vermiformis, is quickly followed by acute peritonitis. In these cases the symptoms may bear so strong a likeness to those of acute intestinal obstruction, that an error of diagnosis is very likely to occur. A man aged 55 was attacked, while walking in the street, with sudden and severe pain in the umbilical region, vomiting, and a sensation as if “ something had slipped down” within his abdomen. From this date he continued in severe pain, and was fre- quently sick ; the abdomen became tympanitic, and the appearance of obstruction was so complete that not even flatus was passed from the rectum. No local tenderness could be detected. The case was thought to be one of intestinal obstruction, and colotomy was performed in the right loin. Examination after death disclosed acute peritonitis following perforation of the vermiform appendix. The urinary bladder is sometimes invaded. A woman aged 34 was under treatment for a large tumor, believed to be uterine haematocele, between the bladder and vagina. Three weeks before death she was sud- denly attacked with rigors and very severe pain, and her temperature rose to 104° Fahr.; four days later the symptoms of acute cystitis appeared, and she passed several ounces of fetid pus mixed with blood from the bladder. After her death it was found that suppuration had occurred around the blood-collection, and that the abscess had burst into the bladder. The writer has seen two cases in which, in the course of hip-disease in children, with perforation of the acetabulum, an abscess, formed within the pelvis, burst into the rectum. Feces subsequently passed freely through the cavity of the abscess and through the hip-joint, and were discharged on the surface behind the trochanter. Both cases ended fatally. Abscesses occa- sionally burst into the joints. Thus, in psoas abscess, matter may pass into the bursa lying between the psoas tendon and the capsular ligament of the hip, and thence into the cavity of the joint with which the bursa often freely communicates; and, in abscess of the popliteal space, pus is apt to enter the knee-joint through spaces in the ligament of Winslow. In children, there is danger that if abscess, whether acute or chronic, form in the epiphyseal end of any of the long bones, it may perforate the articular lamella and the carti- lage, and enter the neighboring joint. Of this accident, which is of somewhat frequent occurrence, the following case is an example:— A child aged 5, who had a small chronic sinus at the lower end of the tibia, was attacked with sudden and such violent inflammation of the ankle-joint, that three days later it was found necessary to resort to a Syme’s amputation of the foot. During the operation, when the joint was opened, a ragged hole was seen in the cartilage covering the tibia, and through this a small sequestrum dropped out of an abscess-cavity in the epiphysis of this bone. Chronic abscesses in the neighborhood of joints may have an unsuspected connection with them, the explanation usually being that they have formed either in a bursa communicating with the synovial cavity, or in a pouch of the synovial membrane itself, which has been shut off by adhesions from the general cavity, and has afterwards been distended, so as to form an apparently independent collection. In a boy, aged 18, suppuration of the knee-joint, necessitating amputation, followed puncture of a chronic abscess in the upper third of the calf. In two cases, acute inflam-