REGENERATION OF TISSUES. 21 capillary or nerve, is the same, such modifications alone showing themselves as necessarily appertain to the anatomy of the tissues. It is well that this physiological truth should be fully recognized, but, at the same time, it is to be equally recognized that all tissues are not formed out of cicatricial or connective tissue, and that the higher forms of structure, such as muscle, nerve, bone, etc., are repaired by the regenerating influence of the injured tissue itself, new cells springing or growing by a kind of budding process from the divided ends of the injured part, and the new cells in contact with, or poured out by, the injured tissue, whether as embryo cells, connective-tissue cells, nerve cells, muscle cells, or bone cells, being so influenced by the tissue with which they are in contact, and from which they probably have origi- nated, that they anatomically partake of its nature, and more or less thor- oughly bring about its repair. Repair in Muscle.—Thus, when muscular tissue is wounded, or more or less destroyed, O. Weber tells us that it may be restored, and that the young muscular fibres are formed out of the old by the division of the protoplasmic material of their extremities, the repair of muscle being thus brought about by agencies closely simulating those of foetal development, in which the young muscular elements are formed almost entirely out of the cells contained within the old muscular fibres. Gussenbauer even gives a drawing of the process (Fig. 205), but Billroth declares that he has never seen anything which Fig. 205. Process of regeneration in striped muscular fibre after injury. Magnified about 500 times. (After'Gussenbauer and Billroth.) he could regard as a re-formation of muscular fibres, and that the cicatrix in muscle is almost entirely connective tissue; the extremities of the muscular fibres, after division and repair, uniting with the cicatricial tissue in the same way as they do with the tendons. My own observations go to confirm those of Billroth.