WOUNDS. 36 the parts covered as after the first dressing, the surgeon taking care to see that efficient means are employed for the external protection, immobility, and good drainage of the wound. Subsequent Dressings.—The third and later dressings of a wound must be governed by the same principles -which have been laid down for the second ; and they are to be conducted in the same quiet, gentle, and yet decided man- ner. They are not likely to be very numerous, should primary adhesion be obtained, but when that hope has fled, they must be carried out daily, or pos- sibly more often: they will, however, then have to be conducted on very similar principles, although with different objects. Contused and Lacerated Wounds. These wounds, from a clinical point of view, should be classed together, since in both, the edges of the wound are as a rule so injured as to be irregu- lar and the seat of ecchymosis; and since in both, before repair can practically begin, death of some of the injured surface, or of some of the surrounding subcutaneous or other tissue—the margins or flaps of the -wound—is to be ex- pected. In the contused wound, the breach of surface is brought about by a blunt instrument, moving with a greater or less velocity ; and the extent of bruising or contusion of the soft parts in the neighborhood of the wound, Avill be found to vary with the size of the instrument which inflicted the injury, and with the force of its impact. When the wounded body is large, the extent of injury will be proportionate; but when the velocity is great, the area of contusion around the edges of the -wound will be lessened, as the extent of wound will be increased. The best examples of contused wounds of all kinds are met with in military surgery, as caused by the impact of spent balls or fragments of shell. Lacerated wounds are generally brought about by a tearing or biting process, and are characterized by great irregu- larity of the lacerated tissues from the skin downwards ; this irregularity de- pends much upon the different degrees of elasticity of the parts torn—skin, arteries, muscles, and tendons, all behaving differently when submitted to a lacerating force. In contused wounds, the area of injury generally extends far beyond the area of the breach of surface, and when death of tissue follows it may spread widely. In lacerated wounds, the area of injury is generally more localized ; though this remark is not applicable to wounds in which muscles and tendons are involved. When, for instance, a finger or thumb is torn of, the tendons connected with the injured part may separate at their muscular origins in the forearm. Hemorrhage from Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—In both contused and lacerated wounds, there is less primary hemorrhage than there is in those of the incised variety; the contusing force so affects the vessels at the seat of injury, as to favor the coagulation of the blood about their open mouths, or so ruptures the inner and middle coats of the bruised vessels as to mechanically interfere with the flow of blood, and thus encourage the formation of a clot by which the lumen of the injured artery may become occluded; while the lacerating force likewise irregularly divides the different coats of the vessel and its sheath—even in the case of a large artery—and thus favors the coagu- lation of the blood at the seat of laceration. This temporary plug of the vessel is generally sufficient to close the orifice until nature’s permanent haemostatic processes have had time to act and to seal the vessel.