309 NOMA. cheek to be swollen, she looked into the mouth, finding what she thought to be a “ gum- boil on the cheek, discharging.” Still, he did not complain of pain, and took a fair quantity of food. The swelling continued rapidly, increasing all the week, hut the black patch appeared only yesterday evening. Fomentations to the outside and lotions to the inside of the cheek had been prescribed. All this time he had had little sleep, and was constantly delirious. Jan. 25 He was lying on his right side, breathing hurriedly. He was very sullen, and his eyes were surrounded by dark areolae, while the face was distorted by an enor- mous swelling of the left cheek and part of the lip. The outer angle of the mouth, half of each of the lips, and a portion of the left cheek, were occupied by a black slough, terminated by a well-marked line, and apparently suppurating in portions of its circum- ference. The skin around was very tense and tender, the sore having a very offensive odor. Inside the mouth there was the same black slough, but not quite as large as that on the cheek, and apparently not involving the gums. These symptoms continued, with slight aggravation, the child dying on the afternoon of the 28th, having refused all nourishment during the day. Treatment.—The therapeutics of noma can hardly he said to have a spe- cific character. The disease does not exist except in the antemic, and espe- cially in those who are so from bad and insufficient food. It may be doubted if it often occurs, except in the dwellings of the poor, and amid the worst sanitary conditions. There must be a change in these respects ; good air and diet are the initial steps in treatment. Tonics of quinine and iron are bene- ficial, but the chief reliance must be upon a milk diet with beef-tea and stimulants. The local treatment is best carried out with washes of chlorate of potassium, and careful detachment of the sloughs. The tendency to a fatal result is very great, and no amount of care will always arrest the extension of the disease to the bones of the face. This pathological condition is said to he marked by the presence of bacte- roid particles moving actively in the blood and other fluids. These are said to have special characters, and to possess the faculty of virulent infectiveness. A case reported by Dr. Sansom presented a large number of small, highly refractile bodies, seen in active movement, which resembled minute, colorless crystals. Their motion was usually rectilinear, and sometimes in opposition to the current of the blood. Two or three attached to a red corpuscle were observed distinctly to move the latter. The number of these mobile bodies varied greatly at different times. Their size was about the twentieth part of that of a red corpuscle. Shortly before the fatal issue, ordinary bacteria were observed in addition to these translucent bodies. The red blood- corpuscles presented great variations in size. Translucent bodies, exactly resembling those observed in the blood, were found in the urine immediately after it had been voided, and a large number were seen in the feces. The discharges from the wound also manifested them in abundance, intermingled with the usual organisms which accompany putrefac- tion. Experiments upon a mouse and a Guinea-pig, made by inoculating them with the blood of the diseased person, resulted in the production of intense cellulitis of the abdominal wall about the site of inoculation, and also in peritonitis. The special trans- lucent bodies were also found in large numbers in the blood. Further observation, how- ever, is necessary, to show these to be constant phenomena in cases of noma. There is a slough, happily not made as often as formerly, due to mercu- rial ization, which closely resembles noma. In the latter, however, the slough will usually extend to the whole thickness of the cheek, while in the mercu- rial affection it seldom destroys more than the inner surface; moreover, this has not the fatality of noma, and, when healing, is apt to draw the lower jaw into close apposition with the upper by the contraction of a large cicatrix. [The editor’s experience leads him to believe, with Mr. Holmes, that the most important point in the treatment of noma is early and thorough cauter- ization with nitric acid, or, which is sometimes preferable, the acid nitrate of mercury. Iodoform is useful as an after-dressing.]