523 SYPHILIS OF THE GENERATIVE APPARATUS. this affection is characterized by the insidious occurrence of a small, smooth, round or oval tumor just above the testicle, the latter and the scrotum itself being unaffected. Its size varies from that of a pea to that of a Lima bean. It is indolent, and may exist for a long time unchanged. It readily disappears under the influence of mercury. This affection is a rather early manifestation of syphilis, occurring in most cases within the first six months. It may, how- ever, show itself as early as the second month, or as late even as the fifth year after infection. It may be confounded with tubercular epididymitis, and has sometimes been mistaken for the result of acute or chronic urethral inflammation. An important point in the diagnosis of the affection is that it attacks the globus major, whereas in gonorrhoeal minor is most commonly involved alone. Syphilitic orchitis may occur as soon as the fourth or fifth month after contagion, while early symptoms are still present; but in the majority of cases it does not appear until several years after the primary sore, and is accompanied by well-marked late manifestations in the fauces, periosteum, or bones; or in some instances it is the only evidence of syphilitic disease which the patient presents. Syphilitic orchitis commonly attacks both testicles, either at the same time or one after the other. The testicle becomes enlarged, without pain, even on pressure, or any sign of inflammation. There is a feeling of weight, espe- cially towards evening, as the testicle growTs heavier, and sometimes a dull pain is felt about the loins; but there is no nocturnal exacerbation, as is usual with many syphilitic troubles. The testicle is somewhat increased in volume, but rarely above double its normal size. Some of the apparent swelling is due to hydrocele, as there is in nearly all cases a slight effusion into the tunica vaginalis. When considerable effusion is present, it may be necessary to evacuate the fluid before the condition of the testicle can be ascertained, but commonly a little manipulation will enable the gland to be grasped and examined. At an early stage in the disease, small indurated nodules, of a gummatous character, can sometimes be felt upon the surface of the testicle, and at a later period these may coalesce and form an indurated tumor, but with- out giving rise to great irregularity of outline. Sometimes the tumor is smooth from beginning to end. The course of the affection is slow, frequently lasting for several years. Left to itself, it frequently terminates in obliteration of the seminiferous tubules and pai’tial or complete atrophy; at other times the parenchyma of the gland may degenerate into fibrous, cartilaginous, or even osseous tissue. It was formerly supposed that suppuration never took place in uncomplicated syphilitic orchitis, but it has been shown that this result is occasionally observed.1 There are two forms of syphilitic orchitis, pathologically considered. In the first or diffuse form, a sub-inflammatory condition is found, with diffuse cell-infiltration and effusion. In the circumscribed variety, there are gum- matous nodules scattered through the body of the testicle. The two varieties may occur together. Syphilitic orchitis may be confounded with gonorrhoeal epididymitis, with cancer, with tubercular disease of the testis, or with simple chronic orchitis. The gonorrhoeal affection is so clearly inflammatory in its character—being at- tended by severe pain, difficulty of motion, redness, heat, and tension of the scrotum—that these symptoms alone should suffice to distinguish between the two conditions. In cancer of the testicle (generally encephaloid), the pain,slight at first, increases with the progress of the disease, and becomes very severe and 1 Secondary softening of the interior sometimes takes place. See Lancereaux, op. cit., 2me <5d., p. 221, and for an illustration, Ibid., PI. 1. Fig. 9. epididymitis the globus