258 ABSCESSES. a faintly salt taste, and, when first removed from the body, and still warm, a peculiar sickly and mawkish smell. Its reaction is alkaline, but it readily becomes acid in consequence (it is commonly supposed) of a slight lactic-acid fermentation. If left at rest after it is withdrawn, it gradually separates into its two primary constituents, pus corpuscles, which form a more or less abundant sediment, and a supernatant fluid portion, closely resembling liquor sanguinis, and often termed “ liquor puris.” Pus corpuscles are identical in their aspect with the white cells of the blood. After death they appear as semi-translu- cent, rounded, or irregularly shaped, and slightly flattened bodies, t° inch in diameter, containing a number of dark granules, and one, two, or several obscure nuclei. When treated with acetic acid they become spher- ical, and are rendered transparent, so that their nuclei can be more clearly seen. The source from which pus corpuscles are derived has been the subject of much speculation; but it now seems safe to affirm that they are for the most part neither more nor less than leucocytes, migrated from the blood current. Some, however, in all probability are developed by the multiplication of the cellular elements of the inflamed tissues. Pus corpuscles, in whichever manner pro- duced, play a highly important part in the development of abscess. During the active, that is, the amoeboid period of their existence, they have the capacity of travelling widely into the adjacent tissues.1 They also manifest the power of surrounding concrete matter with their own substance. Thus “ when a piece of fresh cellular tissue is inserted under the skin of a living animal, and allowed to remain there for several days, it becomes soaked with a liquid teeming with living amoeboid leucocytes, all of which possess the ingestive faculty just referred to.” “ It has not as yet,” Dr. Sanderson continues, “been experimentally demonstrated that leucocytes actually prey upon the nutritive constituents of the slough, but it certainly appears as if they determined its liquefaction;” and further on he says: “The existence in leucocytes of a power of absorbing tissues with which they are brought into contact, is prob- ably the explanation of the destructive tendency which is so important a cha- racter of all intense inflammations,” and which leads not only to the formation of an abscess cavity, but also to the softening and erosion of the tissues in the processes of burrowing and pointing to which allusion is made further on. But on the other hand, it is largely by the agency of leucocytes that the limiting membrane, or sac of an abscess (pyogenic membrane), is developed. In the confines of the affected area, where the inflammatory process has declined in severity, and become less acute than at the centre, an exudation of plastic lymph, or fibrinous material charged with leucocytes, occurs. In this mate- rial, fibrillation takes place, and large cell-elements (produced either by the continued growth, or perhaps by the union, of the smaller elements) make their appearance. Many of these throw out processes, and become branched; and, their branches uniting with those of neighboring cells, a more or less reticulated structure is produced. This becomes vascular, apparently by the canalization of the branched cells. This new tissue which, as its name (pyo- genic) implies, was formerly credited with the actual production of pus, must still be allowed to he accessory to the increase of the abscess which it incloses, for, as Dr. Sanderson has pointed out, its recently formed and delicate vessels are well adapted by their number, structure, and arrangement, to favor the extrusion of leucocytes. 1 Dr. Burdon-Sanderson, article on Inflammation. Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edition, vol. v. p. 784.