157 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. of extensive bone-clisease, whether or not there has been previous excision, biit rarely for any other cause in cases of wound of the joint or upper third of the shaft.1 The particular way in which the operation shall be performed, whether by the flap or the ovoid method, will depend upon the character of the injury and the preferences of the operator. For such cases as are com- monly met with in civil life, other than those in which a charge of small shot, tired at close range, has torn through the axilla as well as the joint, or the bone j list below it, amputation is not to be thought of. Excision.—Very much to be preferred to removal of the limb, is removal of the damaged part. Though the mortality of shoulder-joint excision is some- what higher (5 to 10 per cent.) than that of amputation, yet the preservation of the arm, especially of the right arm, even though an apparatus must be worn in order to permit its being of much use, is of great importance to the patient, and well worth the additional risk incurred. In an uncomplicated fracture, in which the humerus is not splintered below the line of junction of its middle and upper thirds, or for not more than four inches, excision, if recovered from, may be expected to result in the securing of an useful arm. Even more than this amount of the bone may at times be taken away and the patient do excellently well,2 though Gurlt states that of fifteen cases in which more than four inches was removed, twelve had arms the functional value of which was far from good. The partial regeneration of bone which sometimes takes place improves correspondingly the usefulness of the arm. In a case reported by Chipault, seven months after a secondary excision of five and a half inches, there had been a regeneration of two inches of the shaft, of diameter almost equal to that of the original bone; and the patient was ultimately able to carry the arm four inches away from the body, and to place the hand on the top of the head, the arm shortening, and muscular thickening below the shoulder occurring. Associated injury of the scapula or clavicle, or both, does not render ex- section improper: if there is simple Assuring of these bones, operative inter- ference, as far as they are concerned, is not required; but if there is commi- nution, the broken parts should be taken away. Of forty-two removals, during our war, of the head, or head and shaft, of the humerus, with portions of either scapula or clavicle, or both, thirty-one recovered, only ten per cent, of the primary cases resulting fatally. From the Servian War, five such cases are reported with one death (20 per cent.), all operated upon after the close of the early period. In nearly one-half of the cases that recover, a very useful limb remains,3 1 The percentages of mortality of shoulder-joint amputations during our late war were: pri- mary, 24.1 (485 cases, 117 deaths); intermediary, 45.8 (157 cases, 72 deaths); secondary, 28.7 (66 cases, 19 deaths); and of unspecified date, 25.5 (110 cases, 28 deaths). In the French army in the Crimean war, the average mortality was 65.21 per cent., and Legouest has placed it in general at 59.5 per cent. It should he always borne in mind that disarticulation is adopted in very many cases for causes other than those connected with the joint itself, and that the mortality must be proportionally affected. 2 In a case reported in the “Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion,” the head and six inches were removed, and twelve years afterwards, the patient could, without diffi- culty, place his hand on the top of his head ; and could, without pain, lift a weight of two hundred pounds, or more, with the injured limb. The movements of the forearm and hand were not in the least impaired, and there was great freedom of all the movements of the arm, except abduction. The muscular development of the arm equalled that of its fellow. No apparatus was requisite, and altogether the result was most satisfactory and successful. 3 Gurlt (whose great work on “ Joint Resections” has been, and will hereafter he, freely drawn upon) states that of 213 shoulder excisions, 94 (44.13 per cent.) afforded useful limbs, while 119 (55.86 per cent.) gave arms the functional value of which was not satisfactory, and which could he well used, if at all, only with some applied apparatus. Under the head of useful limbs, are classed, besides the rarely met with cases in which there is ability to execute all the normal movements of the shoulder—even to vertical elevation of the arm—those in