65 THE GERM THEORY. oxygen, ozone, exhalations from putrefying materials, could be brought in contact with organic fluids and substances without setting up any fermenta- tive changes in them. The cause of fermentation was certainly not the gases of the air, and, in the case of boiled organic fluids and tissues, it was some- thing particulate; something floating in the air, but removable from it mechanically, by filtration, etc.; and destructible by various chemical agen- cies, such as sulphuric acid, heat, etc. It was thus evident that all attempts at excluding merely the gases of the air from wounds, could not but be abortive, for the gases were not the causes of the putrefaction in the discharges in wounds, and were not even an essential condition of that change; and that their exclusion, therefore, even if thoroughly effected, did not imply the exclusion of the causes of fermentation, or indeed its arrest in any way. The clinical experience of Guerin and others absolutely confirmed this conclusion. While it was thus established that the fermentation of boiled organic fluids and substances was due to the entrance of dust from the outer world, and not to the action of the gases of the air, or to any change inherent in the fluids or substances themselves, facts were being gradually accumulated which tended to show that unboiled organic materials, among which of course we reckon the discharges from wounds, obeyed the same law; and at the present time this view has been firmly established. One or two very simple facts will suffice to illustrate this point. Take Mr. Lister’s experiment with unboiled urine. The orifice of a flask is covered with a cap of cotton- wool, and the whole is placed in a suitable chamber, which is raised to a temperature of 300° F., and kept at that temperature for a sufficient length of time to destroy any living material in its interior (two to three hours). This heat acts on the air and the dust in the interior of the flask, in the same way that the air is acted on when passed through an iron tube heated to redness, as in Schwann’s experiment; the dust is ren- dered incapable of setting up fermentation. By means of the cotton-wool cap, the air which enters the flask during cooling is filtered of its dust, just as in Schroeder and Dusch’s experiments. The glans penis is then washed with 1-40 carbolic acid lotion, which acts in the same way on any causes of fermentation which may be present there. The cotton- wool cap being now rapidly removed, the glans penis is at once placed over the orifice of the flask, and urine is passed into the flask. As soon as the glans is removed, the cotton-wool cap is reapplied, and the flask containing unboiled urine in contact with filtered air is set aside in a warm place. This urine remains pure for an indefinite time, though, if dust be introduced into it, fermentation takes place rapidly. Here we have exactly the same law at work as in the case of boiled organic fluids; the gases of the air cannot cause fermentation ; fermentation is not a spontaneous change in the material experimented on; it only occurs when solid particles, removable by heat, fil- tration, etc., are admitted. I have been able to make out similar facts with regard to tissues removed from the bodies of healthy animals, facts which are further of import- ance in proving that the particles which cause putrefaction are not normally present in the healthy living body. Take a vessel, cover its orifice with cotton-wool and heat it as before described; then introduce into it some sterilized organic infusion, taking suf- ficient precautions to prevent the entrance of septic dust; lastly, with various precau- tions1 to render any air-dust, innocuous, remove portions of the organs from the body of a healthy animal which has been just killed, and introduce them into one of these pre- pared vessels. The result is, if the experiment has been properly conducted, that many of the tissues of the body may be preserved unaltered for a long time, showing that there are no causes of fermentation present in them, and that they have no inherent tendency to undergo such a change. As soon as it was clear that fermentation was due to the access to the fermentescible substances of particles from the outer world, and that these 1 For farther details, see a paper “ On the relation of micro-organisms to antiseptic dressings,’' in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, for 1879. VOL. II.—5