SYPHILIS. 546 Syphilitic arthritis is a very late lesion of syphilis, often following ten, twelve, or even twenty years after infection, and differing from the early joint affections in this point, among others, namely, that it is commonly confined to a single articulation. The knee-joint, and especially the left, is the commonest seat of the affection; less frequently the wrist, elbow, ankle, temporo-maxillary articulation, hip, etc., are affected. Pathologically, syphilitic arthritis originates either in lesions of the syno- vial and fibrous tissues, or in lesions of the bones and periosteum. As it presents itself in the sub-synovial cellular tissue and in that of the capsule, the syphilitic lesion takes the form of small, yellowish, dry, elastic, rather soft masses. A secondary lesion is erosion of the cartilages, due in all probability to the fact that the synovial and fibrous tissues upon which they depend for nutrition are diseased. There is almost always effusion into the affected joint. In one case where an examination was made,'the effused fluid proved to be thick, stringy, cloudy, and very fibrinous. Under the microscope the fluid was seen to contain amorphous globules, epithelial cells, and altered blood globules, contained in an abundant albuminous mesh-work. The bone lesions which occur in connection with syphilitic articular disease take the form of swellings—uniform hyperostoses of the spongy portions of the bones, due to a more or less intense osteo-periostitis. It is rare that the entire articulating surface is altered, the disease being usually confined to a circum- scribed portion. In Jullien’s opinion, late synovitis may occur as a remote result of early syphilitic troubles in the joint. In any event the affection begins slowly and insidiously, and is at first unrecognized. After a time, a certain stiffness or tension is observed in the joint; then effusion takes place. The intermittent disappearance and reappearance of the congestive symptoms which give rise to this hydrarthrosis are among the surest signs of the syphilitic nature of a given case. Palpation reveals in some instances the existence of sclerosed patches in the synovise—small, soft, rounded gummata of the periarticular tissues. Besides these, all the ordinary signs of hydrarthosis are present. In addition, there is very little reaction, and hardly any pain, either spontaneous or aroused by pressure, or by the movements of examination. If in addition to these symptoms there are general signs of syphilis, and if the disease yields quickly to specific treatment even although it may have lasted for some time, the case is certainly one of syphilitic arthritis. Although facts are wanting to prove the proposition, yet it is safe to say that the synovial form of syphilitic arthritis is benign, and without tendency to ulceration or suppuration. The osseous variety, however, is more sei’ious. It may appear suddenly with severe pain, generalized at first over the joint, but soon concentrating itself. At times this may be excessive, but usually it is not extreme, and it comes on at night to disappear with the morning. The diagnosis will be based on an examination of the osseous extremities; the roughnesses, the nodes of which they are the seat, not less than their enlargement, are characteristic. Occa- sionally some elongation of one of the bones entering into a joint takes place. The effusion about the joint is less marked than in the other form of arthri- tis, unless when both forms exist together, which is not rare. It is generally necessary to immobilize the affected limb in this form of syphilitic arthritis, and unless heroic antisyphilitic treatment is employed, serious deformity may result. The usual treatment of syphilitic arthritis is the administration of iodide of potassium in large doses, that is, from half a drachm to a drachm and a half daily. To this mercury may be added, and in many cases general tonics are also required. Locally, strapping may be resorted to with the emplastrum de