SYPHILIS OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 545 ! Ijl of dactylitis, but the bone is implicated very slightly if at all. The joints are involved within a few weeks after the development of the affection, the movements, at first hindered by the swelling and infiltration of the soft parts, becoming unnaturally free. Sometimes there are slight hydrarthrosis and crepitation in the joint. A single finger or toe, or several, may be involved, or one or both hands or feet, one toe being attacked after another, or several simultaneously. The disease runs a chronic course. There is no tendency to ulceration. There is generally complete restoration to the normal con- dition if treatment is instituted in good time. In neglected cases, however, the joints may be rendered permanently useless, and the bones may remain enlarged. The second form of syphilitic dactylitis is sharply limited to the bone, and is due to either periostitis or osteo-myelitis. The affection may progress rapidly, slowly, or with intermissions. The earlier after infection that the lesion occurs, the more acute is its course. Usually a single phalanx, the proximal most commonly, is affected, becoming greatly swollen, assuming an acorn or balloon shape, and being hard and tense, while the superjacent in- tegument remains unchanged, or smooth and red if the process has gone on rapidly. More than one phalanx may be affected, or several fingers or toes, on one or both hands or feet. The hands are the more usually attacked. The joint structures are usually much thickened. After the dactylitis has lasted for about a mouth, the surgeon may detect crepitation from friction of the articular surfaces, the result of erosion due to impaired nutrition. Motion of the joints may be diminished or may be unnaturally free. These bony swellings are very indolent. The gummy material may be gradually absorbed after a time, or it may soften and be discharged through a sinus, while the bone itself may be permanently altered in size and shape, and the function of the finger greatly impaired. There is little or no pain. The affection is one of the late manifestations of syphilis, commonly occur- ring between the fifth and fifteenth years. Exceptionally it appears early, one case having occurred in the eighteenth month after infection. The early recognition of both forms of dactylitis is a matter of great im- portance, as early and efficient treatment is necessary to prevent permanent deformity. The subcutaneous variety in its early stage might be mistaken for paronychia, but the absence of acute inflammatory symptoms, especially pain, establishes the diagnosis. The subacute character of dactylitis will also serve to distinguish it from gout. When several joints are attacked, rheumatoid arthritis might be suspected, but here also are acute inflammatory symptoms and pain, which are absent in dactylitis. The two affections do not attack the phalanges in the same manner, and dactylitis early tends to characteristic deformity. Enchondromata or exostoses, which might be mis- taken for dactylitis, show more localized swellings, limited to a portion of the circumference of the bone. The prognosis of dactylitis is favorable if early “ mixed” treatment is employed. Pressure with mercurial plaster spread on chamois skin is sometimes beneficial. Syphilis of the Articulations. The study of syphilitic arthritis was first entered upon by Richet in his (classical monograph published in 1853,1 but the knowledge of the subject has been increased since then by the publication of several papers by Lancereaux and others. ; vol. ii.—35 Memoire sur les tumeurs blanches.