494 SYPHILIS. circumscribed. In their early stage they are commonly smooth and free from scales. They are usually ham-colored, although occasionally light or very deep red in tint. While often present in considerable numbers, the lesions are not as numerous as in the small papular variety. The lesions may be found scattered over different parts of the body, or collected in one locality in groups or patches. The forehead (corona veneris of older writers), region of the mouth, nape of the neck, back,1 flexor surfaces of the extremi- ties, scrotum (Plate X. Fig. 1), labia, perineum, and margin of the anus, are the localities where this eruption is ordinarily encountered. The large papular syphiloderm is one of the commonest skin manifesta- tions of syphilis. It may occur early or late in the course of the disease, or it may occur as a relapse. Commonly it follows closely on, or accompanies, the erythematous eruption. The lesions appear in divers localities and of different sizes in the course of a few weeks, and are met with in various stages of growth. Once formed they remain for some time—weeks or months. The large flat papular syphiloderm yields more readily to treatment than the small variety. Where the lesions occur in certain localities, their appearance and character may become considerably modified. About the mouth or anus, and occasionally upon the hands and feet, deep fissures sometimes form, giving rise to great annoyance and pain. The Moist Papule.2—A common transformation of the large flat papular syphiloderm is into the moist papule. Moist papules may occur either upon the general surface of the skin, or upon the muco-cutaneous tissues about the mouth, vulva, anus, etc. The lesion as it occurs upon the skin, begins by a red spot which soon assumes the form of a papule, more or less elevated above the general surface, its borders higher than the somewhat depressed centre, the latter covered with a thin crust under which, on raising it, the moist surface of the lesion can be seen. When the evolution of the lesion goes on to a cure, the crust falls off leaving a thin epidermic scale beneath, and it finally disappears without a subsequent scar. Sometimes a copious eruption of the large flat papular syphiloderm may take oft. this character, and the lesions may assume the appearance of moist papules. A not very uncommon occurrence is the transformation, in situ, of the chancre into a moist papule. As the initial lesion is about to disappear, it suddenly springs into new life again ; induration recommences, the lesion becomes larger and more elevated above the surrounding skin, its surface becomes moist, begins to secrete, and, becoming crusted or not according to location, is often distinguished with difficulty from surrounding lesions of an apparently similar character, the lesions of the generalized eruption. Moist papules of the muco-cutaneous integument are closely analogous to those occurring on the skin generally. In some cases, this form of the moist papule assumes the character of a smooth papular elevation of regular contour, slightly darker in color than the surrounding mucous membrane, with a moist surface secreting an abundance of muco-pus of a characteristic and dis- gusting odor. This variety is rarely isolated, but is usually accompanied by other moist papules, and also by a papular eruption upon the skin. Its com- monest seat in man is about the glans, and on the scrotum (Plate X. Fig. 1). In women it is most commonly met with on the external genitals, in both 1 See Duhring’s Atlas, Plate aa. 2 This form of the syphilitic papule is often known by the name of “mucous patch,” but I prefer to restrict that designation to the lesions, which may or may not be papular in character, occurring on the mucous membranes only. The two varieties of the disease run into one condi- tion on the muco-cutaneous surfaces, but are essentially distinct when met with in their typical form. (See Syphilis of the Mucous Membranes.)