626 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Diseases of the Hair. Hirsuties. (Synonym: Hypertrichosis.)—The natural growth of the hair upon different parts of the body varies in amount according to age, sex, and race. Overgrowth in point of extent, may be extremely circumscribed—as upon a hairy naevus or wart—or may be universal; as regards age, it may be congenital, or may occur at any time after birth. The hypertrophy may consist in an excessive development of the usual large and long hairs of the scalp, beard, axillae, and genitals; of the short hairs which cover the general surface; or of the downy (lanugo) hairs upon the face and other parts of the female, which are changed into the strong visible growth characteristic of the male. It is this latter variety of hypertrophy only which demands the frequent aid of the surgeon. For universal hairiness, it may be stated in the beginning, nothing can be done ; for the circumscribed forms of hypertrophy, in either sex, connected with pigmented nsevi and warty growths, the best treatment, when of moderate size, is excision of the whole growth. When too extensive for such an operation, the hirsuties alone may he treated by the* method now to be considered. There is no affection more distressing to a woman than an excessive growth of hair upon the face, none for which she will more persistently seek relief. It majr be confined wholly to the upper lip, or to a few sparse tufts or scattered hairs upon or beneath the chin, or to the sides of the cheeks. The mustache may often he long and heavy, and the side whiskers largely developed, while a full strong heard is very rare, and generally associated with universal hirsuties. Such growths are by no means infrequent upon the faces of girls after the age of twenty, and the great majority of cases which present themselves for treatment to the surgeon and dermatologist, occur between the ages of twenty and thirty. These young women are generally in good health, and the hypertrichosis seems to be in no way connected with any apparent disturbance of the sexual apparatus. Later in life, about the climacteric period, the lanugo hairs are apt to increase in size and depth of pigment over similar parts of the face, but women af- fected with this form of the disease more rarely seek professional advice. With the growth upon the face, there is often, at all ages, a similar develop- ment over the-sternum and about the nipples. In addition to the deformity to which it gives rise, the presence of a noticeable beard or mustache is apt to produce a morbidly sensitive condition, which prompts the bearer to shun society, and at times develops into a true monomania. The writer knew a lady who had visited surgeons in all the principal cities of the country, in vain search for one who would consent to flay the whole lower half of the face, for the extirpation of the hair growth. Treatment.—It is only within a short time that a radical method of cure for hirsuties has been known. There were previously but three well-known means for the removal of hair, which could be advised by the surgeon, and these had already, in the majority of cases, been resorted to by the patient. They were not only temporary in their action, but they were often of positive injury. The first of these was the method resorted to by persons of the male sex for the temporary removal of the beard, viz.: the use of the razor. The second was the application of depilatories, which destroy the hair a little way within the mouth of the follicles, and which therefore retard the reappear- ance of the growth a little longer than the razor, which cuts it off at the level of the surface. But these depilatories have decided disadvantages; they always, in virtue of their caustic properties, produce more or less irrita- tion or inflammation of the skin to which they are applied, which irritation must tend to the stronger development of the overgrown hairs by feeding