THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 226 Constitutional Symptoms.—Occasionally there is ephemeral or irritative fever, hut there are ordinarily no marked constitutional symptoms. Yet from the greater susceptibility of some individuals, or from the large extent of surface involved in some cases, shock may be quite pronounced, in burns of this variety, and may even prove fatal. If two-thirds of the surface are involved, death is almost inevitable. A man was brought to the Pennsylvania Hospital in a collapsed condition, with a feeble pulse and dyspnoea, the result of an explosion of illuminating gas. The skin was hardly reddened, yet death finally ensued from the immense extent of surface involved. Irritation of the intestinal canal, and cerebral, pulmonary, and vesical com- plications are occasionally observed. Burns of the Second Degree.—The redness, pain, and swelling which characterize burns of the first degree are present in cases of this variety, and from exposure to a higher temperature (167° F.), the hypersemia tends to exudation, vesicles form, and serous effusion takes place front the engorged vessels of the inflamed, erythematous skin. These transudations are of all sizes; when considerable, they are called bullse. Vesicles either form at once, or appear in the course of a few hours; sometimes the effusion occurs so rapidly that the vesicles burst, and the collapsed epidermis is seen lying in whitish folds on the inflamed and excoriated skin which is exquisitely sensi- tive. The serum is usually transparent, but occasionally it reveals a trace of blood. In the course of a fortnight the epidermis may be entirely replaced. Usually in the formation of the vesicles there occurs no permanent injury of the skin, but occasionally suppuration and ulceration follow. Constitutional Symptoms.—These vary in accordance with the severity of the burn, and with the extent of the surface involved. Shock with immense prostration, in severe cases, is always present, and death results at once in some instances from simple neuro-paralysis; in others, there is associated congestion of all the internal viscera, and death from cerebral effusion with delirium. Following reaction, inflammation of the internal organs is not infrequent. With a rise in the temperature, albumen is commonly, if not uniformly, found in the urine, and at a later period, ulceration of some por- tion of the intestinal tract has been observed. Burns of the TniRD Degree.—The third degree of burns embraces those attended by the formation of eschars, superficial or deep, involving a part or it may be the entire body. In this group are classed all those cases of acute gangrene resulting from injm'ies of this character, which affect a portion of skin, or of skin and subcutaneous tissue. A temperature of or near the boil- ing point of water is required to destroy the skin by the coagulation of its albumen. In burns of the third degree, according to the duration and intensity of the applied heat, the skin alone, or the muscles, nerves, bloodves- sels, and bones may be destroyed, even to carbonization. Destruction of the entire body can only happen when a person falls into a furnace or limekiln, or is imprisoned in a burning building. Although carbonization of a whole limb is not common, yet now and then, in drunken coma, etc., portions of limbs have been totally burned off’. Constitutional Symptoms.—If reaction takes place, the symptoms at once assume grave proportions, according to the extent of the injury. In some instances death soon ensues from coma; a result of congestion of the brain, with more or less serous effusion. In like manner the lungs, or the intesti-