GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 214 from numerous wars in different years and various countries, expectancy has yielded a higher percentage of recoveries than amputation. Gunshot wounds of the foot, not involving the ankle-joint, are frequently met with in military practice, and occasionally—almost always as the result of accident—in civil life; and in a relatively large proportion of cases, frac- ture of one or more bones is present. The -prognosis of these injuries as respects life is not grave, though death may result from hemorrhage, from tetanus, or, much more generally, from septic complications. As respects, however, the after-usefulness of the limb, the gravity of these cases is quite considerable, for even if amputation, com- plete or partial, is not necessitated, muscular atrophy, tendinous adhesions and contractions, osseous deformities, or tender cicatrices, one or more, are very liable to seriously interfere with locomotion. As a general rule, the treatment should be by expectancy, primary amputa- tion being performed only when a part or the whole of the foot has been very extensively damaged. In toe-injuries, if amputation becomes necessary, it should be complete—at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation—except in the case of the great toe, of which any uninjured portion should he saved. In operating through the metatarsus or tarsus, no more should be removed than is absolutely necessary, and the skeleton of the foot may, with reference to amputations, be regarded as constituted of but a single bone. Amputa- tions in contiguity are to be practised only when those further distant from the trunk, and in continuity, cannot be substituted; Chopart’s operation is very likely, because of retraction of the tendo Achillis, to be followed by an unsatisfactory result as far as the comfortable use of the stump is concerned. The death-rate of amputations in front of the ankle-joint is not great, and that of amputations at the joint itself was, during our late war, but 13 per cent.—9 out of 69 cases. Of 790 cases of toe-amputation, tabulated in Circular No. 6, S. G. O., only 6 or 0.76 per cent, terminated fatally; and of 119 partial amputations of the foot, only 11 or 9.24 per cent. Legouest’s statistics, here as elsewhere, give a much higher mortality percentage, viz., 18.9 for the toe-amputations, 38.0 for partial removals of the foot, and 23.2 for disarticulations of the ankle. During the Crimean war, more than one-half (51.35 per cent.) of the cases of ankle-joint amputation among the French ended in death, while the proportion among the English was only about one-sixth (15.38 per cent.). Expectant treatment in these cases must be conducted on the same general principles as in wounds of other regions. Lodged missiles, if of large size, should always if possible be found and removed, since their presence is almost certain to develop and maintain bone-inflammation.1 When the in- jury, however, has been caused by a small pistol bullet, if the location of the shot cannot be determined by the use of the probe, no extensive incisions should be made in the hope of finding the ball. The ends of divided nerves and tendons, especially those upon the dorsum of the foot, may very pro- perly be united with sutures. Hemorrhage, whether primary or secondary, if from any of the larger arteries, should be arrested by ligation, at the seat of injury, and not at a ^distance. Bleeding of a severe character is ot frequent occurrence in these cases, and, if not properly treated, is very apt to produce most serious results. The dissection that may be required in order to find the wounded vessel will be much facilitated by the preliminary application 1 Stromever declares that “ injuries of the tarsus generally are not very dangerous, and heal with unexpected facility, and without perceptible exfoliation, after extraction of the bullet.”