452 SYPHILIS. A case lias been reported where a man was bitten in a scuffle by his antag- onist, who had mucous patches of the mouth, and where a chancre followed in the wounded locality, and general syphilitic symptoms subsequently devel- oped. I have observed two cases of chancre following bites: in one of these a woman was bitten upon the nipple by her lover, during endearments which were never carried to the extent of sexual connection, and in the other a man was bitten upon the scrotum by a prostitute. In both of these cases I saw the initial lesion at an early date, and followed up the history of the indi- viduals. Similar cases are on record. The operation of skin-grafting may be the means of conveying syphilis.1 (2) Mediate contagion may occur from the passage of a cigar2 or pipe from mouth to mouth, from the use of various common utensils,3 from sleeping in the same bed, or from workmen using such tools as are passed from mouth to mouth, as the blowpipes employed in glass works.4 Surgical instruments may convey contagion.5 Tattooing lias sometimes been the means of convey- ing the poison of syphilis, as in the interesting series of cases, fifteen in all, reported by Maury and Dulles.6 Accoucheurs and midwives may become the sources of mediate as well as of immediate contagion. A case has been recorded in which the secretions of the female genitalia were the means of contagion. A woman had connection with a man having an infecting lesion upon the penis, and a few hours after with another man who had never previously had syphilitic disease. The second lover contracted a chancre from this intercourse, while the woman whose vaginal secretions had carried the contagion remained healthy. In the early history of syphilis, it was imagined that the contagion could be carried by the air as smallpox could, and cases are on record where per- sons have been accused of conveying syphilis by whispering in the ear. We now know this to be a notion without foundation, and that actual contact is necessary. Another idea which was prevalent to within recent years was, that an infant could contract syphilis from the mother in birth, as it passed through the parturient canal. Why this peculiar theory should have gained currency is hard to say. I believe it is entirely unsupported by any recorded cases. Many other means of contagion have been recorded by various writers which it is not necessary to enumerate, but the fact should be borne in mind in investigating obscure cases, and the physician should not be too hasty in imputing immorality when outward circumstances are against this view, and when even a possibility of mediate contagion exists. One case may be mentioned. Clerc, a man not likely to take a credulous view of infection, showed to his pupils an old man of sevent)', who had not indulged in sexual intercourse for many years. This man presented a chancre of the glans penis, derived from the rubbing of the organ against the front of a pair of suspected panta- loons which he had worn about two months.7 Vaccino-Syphilis.—The question of the conveyance of syphilis in vaccina- tion is one of great practical importance. The possibility of such an occur- 1 See Deubel’s case. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Nov. 5, 1881, p. 628. 2 Two Cases of Chancre of the Lip, probably acquired through Cigars. Transactions of the American Dermatological Association. Archives of Dermatology, Oct. 1879. 3 See a Case of Syphilitic Inoculation by a Tooth-brush, by E. B. Baxter. Lancet, May 31, 1879. * Rollet, Arch. G6n. de Med., 1859 ; Gaz. Med. de Lyon, Nov. 16 et Dec. 1, 1862. Also Dechaux, Epidemie syphilitique a la verrerie de Montlu<jon. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, Nos. 15 et 16, 1867. 5 As the Eustachian catheter. See Laillier and others, in Bull, et Mem. de la Soc. Med. des Hopit. de Paris, annee 1864, pp. 299, 213, et 1865, pp. 134, 136. 6 Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1878. 7 See also Hyde, On Some Sources of Syphilitic Infection (American Journal of the Medical Sciences, .January, 1874), and Roh4, Two Cases of Syphilis in which the Infection took place in rather Unusual Situations (Chicago Medical Journal and Examiner, July, 1878).