GONORRHtEA. 372 Of the efficacy of cubebs, copaiba, and oil of sandal-wood,, when admin- istered at a proper time, there can now be no reasonable doubt, and any elaborate defence of their employment would be superfluous. Neither can there be much question as to their mode of action, which is manifestly through the urine. It seems essential that they should pass through the kidneys, since injections containing them have not been productive of very good results.1 It is possible that their action consists rather in modifying the character of the urine, so as to render it unirritating, than in exerting any positively curative power. However this may be, if they are given at this time, when the declining stage is beginning or is well established, and if they are used with due regard to the digestive powers and the idiosyncrasies of the patient, they will be of great benefit in the vast majority of cases.2 If they produce anorexia, dyspepsia, or diarrhoea, it will be necessary to vary the mode of administra- tion, and in a few instances no preparation can be found which will be tole- rated by the stomach. This is especially true of copaiba, much less fre- quently so of cubebs and sandal-wood oil. In other exceptional cases they will cause irritation of the urinary passages as well, and must then of course be at once abandoned. It lias been stated that copaiba and cubebs are occasionally the cause of Bright’s disease, but there is no authentic case on record of this character, and Zeissl denies its possibility. That they are capable, however, of inducing intense renal congestion; and even hsematuria, seems beyond doubt. Bumstead and Taylor3 record a case of this character, and Hill and Cooper4 mention an instance in which the urine became of a coffee color on the second day of taking a copaiba mixture. Gubler has apparently shown that the resin is the portion of copaiba eliminated in the urine, the volatile oil escaping by the skin and respiratory organs. Heidenreich has made the same observation as to the oil and the resin of cubebs. Describing, however, a typical case of gonorrhoea, we may say that the fol- lowing mixture will be of advantage at this stage, the bromide of potassium being continued in combination with the cubebs:— 1 Mr. G. De G. Griffith thus alludes (Medical Press and Circular, March 21, 1877) to the local use of the balsam of copaiba. “As a topical remedy, I prefer an alkaline injection, having balsam suspended in it, or, sometimes even the pure balsam itself, and, in obstinate cases, I have found nothing better than the following plan :— “ Make your patient empty the bladder, then rest for a few moments ; again have the bladder relieved of its contents ; next pass down as full-sized a catheter—silver or gum-elastic—as your patient’s urethra will admit, having previously charged the instrument with balsam, and smeared its surface with the same. When the eyes of the catheter are in the bladder withdraw your thumb or the leather-covered plug from the opening at the handle end of the instrument. In this way the balsam flows into the bladder, being released from the interior of the catheter which is then withdrawn. The patient again makes the attempt to pass water, the medicament will be expelled, and, in its transit, the urethra will be coated with it more or less completely. Indeed, I have often injected the balsam through the catheter into the bladder, and making the patient empty the latter as speedily as possible, have thus laved the entire urethra with the unctuous remedy. This plan I have found to be specially advantageous when balsam cannot be taken by the mouth, or when the discharge is chronic, or even very chronic, and also when some abrasion has taken place in the urethra, or when a bare, granular surface, or even ulceration, exists.” 2 Bumstead and Taylor write (op. cit. p. 05), that the curative effect of copaiba is much greater in the acute than in the chronic form of urethritis, and that it is rarely, if ever, productive of those complications which were once attributed to it. “ In short, it would appear that copaiba can be administered with safety, and to much greater advantage in the acute stage of gonorrhoea, or at an early period of the stage of decline than afterward, and the same is true of cubebs. Still, when a case of this disease presents itself with marked inflammatory symptoms, it is usual to wait for a day or two until these have somewhat subdued—and I do not think that any time is thus lost.” * Ibid. p. 69. 4 Op. cit. p. 512.