GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE FACE. 179 intense cephalalgia appearing at a later period, with progressive stupor, and often rigors or convulsions, making it very probable that an intra-cranial abscess has been formed, the fractured bone should he removed, particularly if there is such paralysis present as suffices to fairly locate the pressure in the immediate vicinity of the break, and an incision should be made through the coverings and into the brain, so that, if possible, exit may be given to the pus. Though the chances of relieving the patient under such circumstances are very slight, yet, as in the case reported by Assistant Surgeon Weeds, U. S. A.,1 recovery may follow the operation; and, if left to himself, a man thus affected is sure to die. The hernia, or, much more commonly, the fungus cerebri, which not infrequently occurs,2 especially in young persons, and which, as when due to cranial and meningeal injuries not produced by gunshot violence, is so generally followed by death, is best treated by simple and moderate compression; operative interference, whether by removal, cauterization, or injection, seldom avails to prevent a fatal termination. Of the value of the antiseptic method in gunshot head-wounds of all kinds, it is impossible as yet to express any positive opinion. If in the future it prove to be true that it is not the injury of the hard or soft tissues, nor the lodgment of ball or bone, that causes death—except when there occurs fatal hemorrhage, or when parts of the brain essential to life are destroyed—.but pathological processes which are due to morbific agents in the air that gets access to the wound, then in the adoption of some form or other of germ-destroying or germ-excluding dressing, will lie the safety of the wounded. Gunshot Injuries of the Face. Wounds of the face, though frequently met with, and often causing great deformity, are comparatively seldom the cause of death,3 and then usually from hemorrhage, or from the results of maxillary fracture. Flesh wounds, if produced by single bird shot or small bullets, are rarely attended by any material destruction of tissue, are quickly recovered from, and are ordinarily followed by little or no disfigurement. When the vulnerating body is of large size (as, for instance, a charge of shot at close range, a shell fragment, or a musket ball), and when the nose, lip, eyelid, or ear, is extensively damaged, great deformity is likely to be produced, and unfortunately plastic surgery is not very often of much avail in relieving the effects either of the original loss of substance, or of the cicatricial contraction. Injury of Steno’s duct may be followed by salivary fistula. In wounds of the orbital cavity, even those produced by bullets of large size, the eyeball may escape injury ; but generally it is more or less damaged, perhaps destroyed outright, perhaps so contused or lacerated that destructive inflammation is soon lighted up, or that the lesion is followed by so-called “sympathetic ophthal- mia” of the other eye, which is very generally not sympathetic at all, but probably due, as claimed by Lebert, to the direct transference of septic germs along the lymph spaces of the optic nerves. Immediate and total blindness of one or both eyes is at times caused by the passage of a shot from side to side through the optic nerve or nerves, no other serious damage in some of the cases being done. Penetration of the cranial cavity through the orbit 1 Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery, April, 1872. 2 Otis reports 61 cases, of which 50 proved fatal. 3 The mortality-rate during our war was 5.88 per cent. (462 deaths out of 7868 cases), flesh wounds proving fatal in 1.54 per cent., orbital wounds in 5.7 per cent., and fractures in 11.4 per cent, of the cases.