COMPLICATIONS OF BURNS. 239 rhagic infarction. ... If the infarction has been dissolved and removed (digested) by the aid of the gastric juice, there remains behind a correspondingly large loss of sub- stance ; the ulcus simplex is established. From this time out it may enlarge and may attain the dreaded developmental climax of a perforating ulcer. Upon the other hand, it may also become smaller and cicatrize. . . . The round form of the deficiency belongs prominently to these essential peculiarities. . . . The deficiency has the form of a very flat cone, whose base is situated at the surface of the mucous membrane, whose apex is eccentrically situated in a deeper layer of the gastric wall.” As to the causes of “ this funnel-shape formation, the answer again points us to the hemorrhagic infarction as the point of departure of the disturbance.” Hemorrhagic erosions of the mucous membrane of the intestine and perfo- rating duodenal ulcerations have been frequently observed hv Rokitansky; but, on the other hand, Caspar states that he “ has never observed these phe- nomena in a single case of death from burning.” This interesting pathologi- cal change in the duodenum has, for a few years past, been carefully sought for, and there is no doubt that under certain circumstances this ulceration or degeneration may rapidly occur. The ulcer is described by Ziemssen as very similar to the ordinary gastric ulcer, which also occurs from burns ; as having “a sloping shape like a terrace, resulting from the fact that the loss of sub- stance in the serosa is less than in the muscular is, and in the latter less than in the mucosathe edges are sharply cut, not thickened, and in the older ulcers are indurated, in consequence of reactive inflammatory processes in the vicinity. The base “ shows no trace of suppuration, and is formed by the muscularis or the serosa according as the ulceration has penetrated more or less deeply.” The ulcer generally is free from any surrounding inflammation. The presence of blood in the stomach or bowels would suggest the presence of an ulcer in some part of the intestinal tract. The symptoms which, during life, in a case of burn, would lead the sur- geon to suspect the existence of a duodenal ulcer, are simply of a negative character: pain in the epigastrium, possibly tenderness upon pressure, Inema- temesis, blood in the evacuations, and a sudden collapse, would at least give rise to the suspicion of ulceration; while vomiting or diarrhoea might also readily exist, with simple gastric or intestinal irritation. Death from duo- denal ulcer has been reported as early as the fourth and as late as the sixtieth day ; youthful subjects, it would seem, are more frequently than older persons affected by this particular form of ulcer, although quite a number of instances are reported as having occurred in those of advanced years. In one case given by Mr. Curling, of a child three years of age, who died on the fifth day after severe burns, duodenal ulcers were found; one ulcer, having per- forated into the abdominal cavity, gave rise to peritonitis and severe hemor- rhage. On the other hand, deaths with ulceration have been noticed in patients of sixty and seventy years of age. There is no specimen of this form of ulceration in the museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital, and Pro- fessor Leidy informs me that the same may be said of the Wistar and Horner Museum of the University of Pennsylvania, and of the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. Hone of the post-mortem exam- inations at the Pennsylvania Hospital has produced any specimen of this lesion, nor has there been during the past twenty years, as far as is known, a death from internal hemorrhage after such injury. Although there can he no doubt that such ulcers occasionally occur, yet it is probable that fatal results from them are very rare. In a late fatal case of burns at the Penn- sylvania Hospital, a woman had extensive injuries from her clothes taking fire, three hundred and sixty-nine square inches of surface having been deeply burned. She perished on the forty-sixth day from exhaustion, and an