35 ON THE SECOND DRESSING OF A CLOSED WOUND. removal of the absorbent material which has been placed to catch the drained secretions of the wound; and will be found, when dressed, to be well, or nearly well. A wound, however small, dressed ineffectually, will probably be un- healed and suppurating. The nearer the surgeon can approach perfection in his first dressing, the more successful will he be in his practice, and the larger will be his proportion of cures by primary adhesion. When a second dressing is called for, the surgeon should have at hand every- thing which may be required for the purpose: lint, prepared in size and shape, and steeped in whatever dressing he may have arranged to use; scissors, for- ceps, bandages, strapping, absorbent cotton, trays, and irrigators, whether in the shape of a can or in that of a dressing bottle. When the wound is large, and water is to be used in quantity, he should have a piece of water-proofing to place beneath the part, and such assistants as may be required. He is then to remove the external dressings, and in doing this, as in every subsequent proceeding, he is to employ the utmost gentleness. He should, however, be- forehand place his patient in the most comfortable position he can, and then place himself comfortably; for no surgeon can do his work well if he is in a constrained posture. In removing external dressings, some time is often re- quired, but it must be granted; for when dressings are glued to a wound by blood or secretion, they must be softened with water, or rather medicated water, before they can be taken away without doing harm. Having taken off the external dressings, sent them away, rolled them up, or thrown them into a basin of antiseptic fluid, and having exposed the part with its sutures, and possibly the strapping which was applied for adjusting purposes, the surgeon is then to cleanse the part, and for this object he cannot do better than to use the absorbent cotton, either dry, or wet with the medicated lotion. The sutures should then be cut and withdrawn, care being observed not to drag a long loop of suture, covered with dry secretion, through the tissues, but to cut it off close to the skin through which it will have to pass. When the union of the wound appears weak, or when it is on an early day after the first dressing that the second is being made, support should be given to the tissues by the application of a piece of well-adjusted strapping, as each suture is taken away; a second and third, or more pieces, being successively applied as the dressing proceeds. If the sutures are not irritating, and the wound has not healed well, they should be let alone. In deep wounds, the surgeon should never be in a hurry to remove sutures, whether they are irritating or not, for if he remove them before good repair has taken place, the wound will gape, and under such circumstances the prospect of securing repair by primary ad- hesion will have disappeared; and even when the sutures are cutting through from overstretching of the part, it is, as .a rule, well to let them alone as long as they have any influence in holding large flaps together, or in preventing wide separation. At the same time, all sutures should be removed as soon as they have answered the purpose for which they were introduced, or when all hope of their fulfilling it has passed away. The removal of a stitch from a wound which is suffering from the irritation caused by tension, and possibly from some collection of fluid, is always wise. When splints have been used to support and to insure the immobility of wounded parts, they should not be removed unless for some urgent cause. It is to be assumed that they were so applied at first as to allow the surgeon to remove, when necessary, the external dressings without interfering with them. With the same view, of preventing the necessity for its early removal, a splint should be covered with some protective such as gutta-percha, or oiled silk. To complete the second dressing, a fresh piece of lint soaked in the tere- bene and oil, or other selected application, is to be laid on the wound, and