238 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. Mr. Curling described these ulcers as being circular, oval, or sometimes quite irregular in shape, in size equalling a shilling or a half-penny, and again only five, or less, lines in length, by a line and a half, or more, in breadth; and he believed that the sudden arrest of the functions of the skin brought upon the duodenal glands an increased action, and that the irritation conse- quent to this led to inflammation and ulceration. Since then, though the subject has received much attention, yet the occurrence of this form of ulce- ration after burns and scalds has been involved in considerable obscurity, so much so that many surgeons have doubted the existence of this pathological change; however, it has been very conclusively demonstrated now that not only duodenal but gastric ulcers do result from burns and scalds. Changes in the condition of the gastric juice brought about by various causes would seem to be sufficient, under certain circumstances, to permit, according to some authorities, a digestion of the intestinal or gastric walls; but such lesions must not be confounded with spots of post-mortem digestion of the walls of the stomach or duodenum. Any derangement or local arrest of circulation which may cause blood sta- sis, is believed to be sufficient to produce this peculiar lesion, and even to bring about ulceration. Thus an interference in the normal surface circula- tion, taking place after extensive burns and scalds, has been held to induce such vascular disturbances in the walls of the intestine or stomach, and to produce ulceration, a lesion which u Falk regards, as mainly due to the in- hibition of the gastric circulation, resulting from the depressed action of the heart.”1 Ziemssen, when referring to the cause of duodenal ulcer, says that the pathological change is always due to the action of the acid gastric juice ; that the primary lesion is a local arrest of circulation, and that the formation of the ulcer at this point is a secondary and necessary result of the action of the digestive juice. Hemorrhagic necrosis of the mucous membrane, producing derangements of circulation, as stated by Virchow, has been directly demon- strated by a case “ which showed at the autopsy an embolized artery in the base of a duodenal ulcer.” This author also states that the prototype of the peptic ulcer is the perforating ulcer of the duodenum, and that the etiology of the gastric ulcer is identical with that of the duodenal ulcer, inasmuch as the latter is undoubtedly always due to the action of the acid gastric juice ; that gastric ulcers are produced by a great variety of causes, all of which act by interrupting the local circulation, in consequence of which the-acid gastric juice can impregnate the wall of the stomach [and duodenum] to a greater depth and digest it, while, under normal circumstances, the blood circulating in the tissues renders them constantly alkaline, so as to protect them from self- digestion. Rindfleisch,2 when referring to hemorrhage as the probable cause of the development of simple (chronic, round, and also perforating) ulcer, says:— “ The extravasated blood-corpuscles infdtrate a circumscribed section of the mucous membrane in such measure that the blood capillaries are compressed and nutrition ceases with the circulation. The hemorrhagic infarction becomes a caput mortuum; its organic connection with the healthy mucous membrane is destroyed, and the actual separation [is] yet only a question of time. If, however, we reflect that the gastric juice dissolves such dead portions with facility .... we will find it conceivable that already, but a few hours after the hemorrhage, instead of the infarction, we will meet with those clean, sharply defined losses of substance that Cruveilhier called ero- siovs hemorrhagiques.” “ The simple ulcer, therefore, takes its departure from a hemor- 1 Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. vii. p. 204. 2 Text-book of Pathological Histology, etc., page 356. Philadelphia, 1872.