VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE LOWER ANIMALS. 597 The treatment employed consisted in the use of sarsaparilla and a decoc- tion of the hemlock spruce. Disease op Chavanne Lure.—This is described by Lancereaux as a disease beginning with weakness, and followed by nocturnal pains in the joints of greater or less severity; the mouth and throat were affected, and a pustular eruption appeared on the whole surface of the body, especially marked on the head. The use in common of eating and drinking utensils was the chief means of propagation. Lancereaux regards this affection, as he does all the others which have been mentioned, as actually identical with syphilis. Venereal Diseases in the Lower Animals. The question of the susceptibility of the lower animals to venereal diseases has for a long time claimed the attention of sypliilographers, and numerous experiments have been made, by inoculating animals with the discharges arising from venereal sores in man, to prove or disprove their susceptibility to this class of diseases. Hunter,1 Ricord, Cullerier, and others experimented upon the lower ani- mals by inoculating the discharge from the true chancre, with negative results as far as the production of constitutional syphilis was concerned, although a sore resembling the chancroid could be produced. On the other hand, De Weltz,2 Auzias Turenne, and others, are said to have produced, by inoculation, sores which resembled the true chancre. M. Langlebert3 states that he saw on the arm of M. de Weltz a well-marked chancre which had been inoculated by M. Ricord himself, who took the pus from a chancre on a monkey; but as at this time the distinction between the chancre and chan- croid was not clearly drawn, and as no mention is made of the develop- ment of constitutional symptoms, little weight can be attached to this obser- vation. Recent investigations tend to confirm the observations of Hunter and Ricord, that the chancroid can be reproduced in the lower animals, while the inoculation of the discharge from the true chancre is only followed by an ulcer, local in its character, and unattended with symptoms of constitutional syphilis. Jullien,4 in speaking of the experiments of Auzias Turenne, says that they relate to the contagion of the chancroid, and that the symptoms following his inoculations were only visible to himself; and that, on the other hand, there have been too many negative results recorded by Ricord, Diday, Langlebert, Horand, and Puech—which contradict Auzias Turenne’s obser- vations—to allow us to give them the slightest credence. In regard to inocu- lations upon dogs, Jullien adduces the experiments of Velpeau, Bretonneau, Horand, and Puech, and the conclusions of Bouley, as showing that the lesions produced upon these animals are not different from the ulcerations so frequently noticed on the ears of certain hunting dogs. The same observer, in speaking of a disease which exists among horses, and which is called the disease of coitus, and will be presently referred to again under the name of “ La Dourine,” says that though this malady, which is possibly venereal, and of which the contagious character seems 1 Vidal, Treatise on Venereal Disease (transl. by Blackman), p. 36. s Ibid., p. 37. ‘ 3 Ibid., p. 37. 4 Traite Pratique des Maladies Vendriennes, p. 547.