GONORRHOEA. 330 than in men, as the genital and urinary apparatus in the male is neither so extensive in surface nor so subdivided functionally as in the female, and her chances for contact with morbid secretions, other than that from a purulent urethritis, are correspondingly limited.1 Varieties of Gonorrhoea. Gonorrhoea may then be defined as an inflammation of the urethra in the male, of the vagina, vulva, or urethra in the female, depending upon some local irritation for its development, the most common cause being con- tact during sexual intercourse with purulent or disordered secretions from the genito-urinary tract. In practice we meet with three distinct varieties of the disease, which are of definite clinical importance, and which maybe described as:— I. Typical or acute inflammatory gonorrhoea; II. Subacute or catarrhal gonorrhoea; III. Irritative or “ abortive” gonorrhoea.2 Distinctions based upon minor variations in the form or seat of the inflam- mation have been made, chiefly by those observers who have employed that very unsatisfactory instrument, the urethral endoscope. They have thus de- scribed a membranous urethritis with inflammation of the dorsal lymphatics of the penis ; a granular urethritis, with numerous punctiform elevations of the mucous membrane; a suppurative urethritis, with the formation of ab- scesses in the submucous connective tissue; and an ulcerative urethritis, noticed in persons predisposed to herpes. I have never been able to distinguish these different forms with any degree of accuracy except when they have given rise to well-marked symptoms, such as follicular or peri-urethral abscess in the “suppurative” form, hemorrhage after urination in the “ulcerative” variety, etc.3 For practical purposes they may safely be ignored, and the division or classification above suggested may be adhered to. 1 At intervals of a few years the doctrine of the dependence of gonorrhoea upon the presence and growth in the urethra of vegetable organisms—bacteria and micrococci—is revived and dis- cussed. Neisser. Salisbury, Bokai, and lately Mr. Cheyne, Assistant Surgeon to King’s College Hospital, have claimed to base their diagnosis and treatment of the disease upon the existence of these organisms. As their observations have never been confirmed, except as to the discovery of micrococci such as are found in pus under all circumstances, and whencesoever derived, and as the antiseptic plan of treatment is usually a conspicuous failure in cases of gonorrhoea, it will not be necessary further to allude to these theories. 2 Lebert classes the two latter forms together under the name of “ slight, superficial, sero-puru- lent and mucous gonorrhoeo-catarrh.” 3 J. Griinfeld (Cbl.f. Chir., 1878, No. 21 ; from Wiener med. Jahrb.), as a result of his expe- rience with the endoscope, describes the following forms of urethritis, which closely resemble those above given : (1) Urethritis blennorrhoica, acute blennorrlicea of the urethra without com- plication. The field of vision of the endoscope is filled with greenish pus, the mucous mem- brane underneath markedly reddened, greatly puffed out, and showing erosions here and there. The so-called lacunae of the mucous canal are wanting, or their depth is reduced to a minimum. (2) Urethritis membranacea, characterized by striated layers of grayish-white membrane, the re- moval of which gives rise to slight bleeding. This form of disease is ordinarily complicated by inflammation of the dorsal lymphatics of the penis. (3) Urethritis simplex, a less marked variety of U. blennorrhoica, the mucous membrane being somewhat red and swollen, with injected blood- vessels ; the lacunae decidedly evident. (4) Urethritis granulosa. The mucous membrane is evenly colored ; no isolated bloodvessels can be seen ; wrinkles are for the most part wanting, but numerous punctiform elevations can be perceived, which are distinguished by reflecting light from their surface. (5) Urethritis with the formation of abscesses, which occasionally originate in herpes blebs, occasionally are chancrous sores, and sometimes proceed from badly treated strictures. A form of gonorrhoea known as “ gonorrhoea sicca,” or “dry gonorrhoea,” and unattended witli discharge, is discussed by some authors. I have never seen a case of this disease, and am disposed to agree with Van Buren and Keyes, who attribute the symptoms—pain, ardor urinae,