DIFFUSE SUPPURATION. 275 of psoas and iliac abscesses, that counter openings cannot be safely made. The best materials for injections are weak solutions of iodine, of carbolic acid, of nitrate of silver, or of sulphate or chloride of zinc. Injections must always be used with caution, and the strength of the solution employed must be carefully guarded and only gradually increased. The cautery—of which the most convenient forms are the galvanic current- heating platinum wire, and the recently invented benzoline cautery—may sometimes be advantageously employed for the closure of small sinuses and fistulse left after nearly successful plastic operations, and in other instances of short canals in situations in which a plastic operation would be attended with unusual difficulty. It should, however, be remembered that the effect of the application of the cautery is to render the structures cicatricial, and that if it fail to secure closure of the sinus, it leaves the parts less amenable to other forms of treatment. Operations.—In many instances in which urine or other excretion passes through a fistula, an essential part of treatment is to provide free escape for the excretion by the natural passage. No treatment will cure a perineal fis- tula, for example, unless the urethra be restored to its full size by dilatation; and, when this is done, many fistulte will spontaneously close. Plastic opera- tions, as they will be described elsewhere, both in respect to the principles which they involve and the various methods by which they are performed, need not be considered here. General Treatment.—Where necessary, tonics and change of air must be combined with other means of treatment; the possible existence of tubercu- losis must be kept in view ; operative interference must be postponed in cases in which there has been recent illness, as any of the exanthemata; and if there is any suspicion of syphilitic taint, active treatment should be delayed till the patient has been subjected to a course either of mercury or of iodide of potassium. Diffuse Suppuration. When suppuration follows acute inflammation in those whose constitutions are broken by old age, visceral disease, the abuse of alcohol, privation, residence in bad climates, or other causes, pus, instead of being inclosed in a well-defined cavity, so as to constitute abscess, may be widely disseminated through the tissues of the part. This diffusion of matter is most marked, and most ex- tensive, in suppuration in large areas of loose cellular tissue, as in the pelvis, but it is also frequently met with in the subcutaneous tissue and the inter- muscular spaces of the limbs, in the neck, in the armpit, in the ischio-rectal fossae, and by the side of the rectum, in the breast, under the scalp, etc. It occurs also in the medullary substance of bone, as one of the*forms of osteo- myelitis, after compound fracture or amputation. When once established, diffuse suppuration is usually very rapid in its progress, and very destructive in its results. In the course of thirty-six hours, or sometimes even in a much shorter period, the whole of the subcu- taneous and intermuscular cellular tissue of a forearm or a leg, may be infil- trated with pus, and reduced to a sloughing condition, so that the skin is undermined and detached from the subjacent structures, and the muscles, ten- dons, and large bloodvessels are deprived of their sheaths and laid bare. When diffuse suppuration attacks the neck, pus may quickly make its way, under the layers of the deep fascia, into the anterior mediastinum and the cellular tissue around the pericardium, while, when the loose areolar tissue beneath the occipito-frontalis is involved, the whole of the scalp may be raised by a large collection of pus between the muscle and the pericranium.