237 COMPLICATIONS OF BURNS. catching cold. It is well known that destruction of the skin produced in this way, when extensive, causes a general depression of the bodily tempera- ture in consequence of the great loss of heat: it acts in the same way as a continued abstraction of heat by cooling of the uninjured skin.” He says, also, “ that the inflammation of the internal organs following extensive burns is due to the destruction of the red blood corpuscles which were pre- sent in the vessels at the site of the injury, and were thus exposed to the excessive heat, is not supported by a suflieient number of positive facts.” He believes that “ the morphotic fragments of the destroyed blood-cells, together with the chemical products of their decomposition, are swept with the current of the blood into the affected organs, and there excite in- flammation.”1 Complications of Burns. Intestinal Complications.—Intestinal catarrh, inflammation, and ulcera- tion, may, as is well known, be excited by any cause which suddenly drives the surface blood inward, and thus in burns and scalds we may have pro- duced in a similar manner the various grades of intestinal complication, from the simplest gastric and intestinal irritation with diarrhoea, to a high grade of inflammation and ulceration of stomach or bowel. “ Falk has found, in cases of burns of large extent, broken-down corpuscles in the blood, and a depressed action of the heart; conditions which may help to explain the singular reciprocal relation between intestinal inflammation and burns of the skin.”2 Dupuytren was the first to point out that, in patients dying between the third and eighth days after burns, the brain, bowels, and lungs were fre- quently congested, and sometimes inflamed, and that the mesenteric glands and mucous membrane of the intestines were also found in some instances actually ulcerated, fatal results following during the suppurative period. Ulceration of the Duodenum.—In 1842, Mr. Curling, of London, read a paper before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society “ On acute ulcera- tion of the duodenum in cases of burn.” The subjects of the disease, in the cases reported, wrere young, the eldest having been twenty-eight years of age, whilst the ages of the other nine varied from three to nineteen years. “The ulcerative action wTas evidently of an acute character, a fatal termination having ensued in from seven to seventeen days after the injury in all the cases except one, in which the patient survived till the end of five weeks.” In these cases the ulceration went on to perforation,giving rise to peritonitis; hemorrhage from lesion of a bloodvessel occurred in six eases; the fact that the ulceration usually takes place, as Mr. Curling says, “ in that particular part of the duodenum, where it passes in front of the head of the pancreas, renders these cases very prone to the occurrence of hemorrhage, owing to the arteria pancreatica duodenalis running so close to the walls of the intestine in its passage between the duodenum and the pancreas as almost necessarily to become exposed when perforation ensues.” In the cases described, the ulceration was usually found close to the pyloric orifice; in some instances within a quarter of an inch of this opening. Usually there was but one ulcer, sometimes two or three. In two instances the mucous membrane was deeply injected, but without ulceration ; and again there were found unequi- vocal marks of circumscribed inflammation of the mucous membrane anterior to the head of the pancreas. 1 IJeber einige Allgemeinerscheinungen nach umfangreichen Haut-verbrenmingen. Archiv fur Path. Anat., Bd. 53, H. 5, S. 27. 2 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. vii. p. 364. (American edition.)