42 WOUNDS. of these requirements, should be regarded with greater favor than another in which these requirements are less efficiently fulfilled. With this standard of comparison ever prominent, I will now proceed to consider the more important special modes of treating wounds. Treatment of Wounds by Occlusion. {The Smothering System.)—This was without doubt the favorite method of dressing fresh wounds among the older surgeons, and in proof of this it is only necessary to refer to the classical works of John Bell, to read how the processes of mundifying, digesting, in- earning, and cicatrizing, were carried out. This method was doubtless the outcome of much observation, and was based on what was seen daily in the healing of the wounds of animals by one of the natural methods of repair, that of scabbing. This mode of healing, under a scab, writes Paget, “is the most natural, and, in some cases, the best of all the healing processes. Very commonly, in animals, if a wound be left wide open, the blood and other exudations from it dry on its surface, and, entangling dust and other foreign bodies, form an air-tight and adherent covering under which scar- ring takes place, and which is cast off when the healing is complete. The exact nature of the process lias not been watched, but it seems to consist in little more than the forma- tion of cuticle in the wounded surface, and it has the advantage that, as no granulations are produced, there is little or no contraction of the scar. In man the same process is less frequent; it is more apt to be spoiled by inflammation producing exudations under the scab, which either detach it or prevent the healing of the surface beneath it. Some- times, however, the blood shed from a wound coagulates and dries on it, and remaining as a scab, permits healing under it; or, if this do not happen, a similarly effective scab may be formed by the serous fluid or lymph by which the surface of an exposed wound usually becomes glazed ; or, more rarely, the pus of a granulating wound may scab, and sound healing take place beneath it.” “ To obtain healing under a scab, if the wound be recent, the blood and exuded fluids, or, if it be granulating, the pus, should be left exposed to the air till it dries on the wound, adhering to the edges and surface, and completely excluding them from the air.” There seems, however, to be a proneness to inflammation “ which makes the healing under a scab precarious and less generally attainable than one could wish it. No mor- bid exudation should take place under a scab once formed ; everything of the kind pain- fully compresses the wound and retards its healing.”1 * Such is the mechanism of healing under a scab, and such are some of the methods by which it can be brought about. In Sir Astley Cooper’s time (1820 to 1840), with the same object, wounds were often sealed with lint or other material saturated with blood, and in more recent days the}7 have been covered with collodion, alone, or applied on linen; with colloid styptic; with tannin in powder; with dry earth; with Peruvian balsam, or friar’s-balsam; with cotton-wool, medicated or otherwise. In some country districts, coal-tar is used for the same purpose, and with the same view. Chassaignac’s arrange- ment, by which a wound was hermetically sealed from the air by consecutive layers of plaster covered in with charpie or cotton-wool, has also been em- ployed. The object of each variety of this form of dressing is the same, viz., the complete exclusion of atmospheric air, and in each an attempt is made to place an open wound as much as possible in the position of one which is closed or subcutaneous. Cotton Dressing.—In recent times, this method has attracted attention under the form of the “cotton dressing,” which was introduced in 1853 by Burg- graeve, of Ghent, and advocated by Ravoth. In their hands, it was carried 1 Article on Wounds. Holmes’s System of Surgery, Second edition, vol. i. pp. 636, 643. Lon- don, 1869.