DISEASES OF THE NAILS. 623 these may be mentioned: strong sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, and chromic acids, and caustic potassa. These substances should be used with great care, to insure that they do not come in contact with the surrounding skin, or de- stroy too deeply the diseased tissues, especially over joints. Their injudicious use may cause deep scars and permanent deformity. Generally one or two applications will destroy the wart. Glacial acetic acid is much less likely to cause trouble than the substances named, and is generally effective. It, like the others, should be applied to the parts on a pointed stick, but it must be used repeatedly at such intervals, daily if possible, as the skin will allow. When applied to the soft warts upon the scalp, it is always successful, and one sitting is sufficient for their complete removal. It is to be repeatedly applied to the growth, for the space of ten or fifteen minutes, when the wart may be readily scraped off with the stick employed in the application of the acid. The hemorrhage which sometimes ensues is readily controlled by pressure. Diseases of the Hails. The surgical affections of the nails are those which are produced both by inflammation of their underlying and surrounding tissues, and by hypertro- phy of their own immediate structures. The nails are often greatly altered in appearance, shape, color, thickness, surface-condition, etc., in the course of chronic inflammatory and other affections of the skin in their neighborhood, such as eczema, psoriasis, lichen ruber, ichthyosis, etc.—the tissue changes which characterize these, affecting in time the formative structures of the nail. More acute inflammatory processes may cause the nails to be shed. None of these conditions, however, demand surgical interference, under ordinary cir- cumstances, and they need, therefore, no special mention here. Hypertrophy.—True hypertrophy of the nail can arise only from hyper- trophy of the papillae, or hyperplasy on the part of the matrix, which is ex- pressed by excessive cell formation beneath. In this way thickening of its structure arises—confined to the base, when the matrix only is diseased— but exhibiting itself at the front or lateral edges, when the papillae of the corresponding portions of the nail-bed are similarly affected. The nail may thus be thickened equally over its whole extent, or may assume a great variety of strange shapes, elevating itself in the form of conical horns, or projecting with various curves and twists beyond its free edge, which is of great thick- ness. This latter condition is called Onychogryphosis. The nail structure becomes opaque, more or less discolored, hardened in parts, or brittle, and easily splintered. If the top of such a horny outgrowth, overlying the ma- trix or nail-bed, be removed by the knife, we come down upon the tips of the papillae, projecting to a considerable height above their natural level, and bleeding easily when wounded. It is by the deposit of epidermal cells around these hypertrophied papillae, as in the formation of Cornu cutaneum, that the enormously thickened nail masses are built up. The progress of the hyper- trophy is always extremely slow, and its course proportionally long; indeed, when the papillae are materially enlarged, the process may be said to be per- manent, a healthy nail rarely being formed again. Even should the thick- ened mass be torn off, it is reproduced, just as the cutaneous horn after a similar accident. The causes of true hypertrophy are not well known. Pressure seems to be an exciting cause, as in the formation of the callus (page 619). It is on this account that hypertrophy most commonly affects the nails of the toes, especially of the little and great toes. It is in old people, in whom the epidermal tissues