WOUNDS. 30 away from the margins of the wound. In operations for phimosis, in the adult, this form of suture is likewise of great value, not only expediting recovery, but doing much to make the result of the operation more artistic. In these cases the fine carbolized gut suture may be used. Twisted or Harelip Suture.—The hoisted suture (Fig. 212) is of value in cer- tain operations on the lips and cheeks, and in other parts where difficulty is experienced in bringing the tissues together, since by its use more force can be brought to bear upon the margins of the wound, and their adaptation can thus be rendered more perfect. This form of suture was in former times the one commonly employed in hare- lip operations, but it is not so now. I have discarded it in favor of the interrupted su- ture of silk, silkworm gut, or wire, and em- ploy it only in double harelip operations, or in cases in which exceptional difficulty is experienced in bringing the parts together. [.India-rubber Suture.—This is a modification of the twisted suture, intro- duced by M. Riga! and formerly employed by the late W. L. Atlee, of Phila- delphia. An India-rubber ring is slipped over the ends of the pin, instead of the twisted ligature, and serves by its elasticity to lessen the risk of caus- ing undue tension.] Quilled Suture.—This form of suture (Figs. 213, 214) is applicable where deep wounds have to be well held together along their whole line, and more Fig. 212. Harelip or twisted suture. Quilled suture. particularly for a brief period, say two or three days. In ruptured perineum it is certainly of value, combined with superficial sutures (as shown in Fig. 214), but even in these cases the interrupted su- Fls- 215- tures of silkworm gut, introduced well away from the margins of the wound, and inserted deeply, are probably to be preferred. Button Suture.—This (Fig. 215), which is a variety of the quilled suture, is useful in some amputations, as of the thigh, where the surgeon is desirous of keeping the bases of the flaps to- gether. It is useful likewise in harelip or other lip operations. Button suture. x x