333 COMPLICATIONS OF FIRST STAGE. ing-down, expulsive efforts which accompany or follow the dribbling of the last few drops. The discharge during this period has been growing more and more profuse. At first thin, and of a bluish-white hue—like city milk—it has become white, then yellow, and then greenish or streaked with blood-stains. If actual ulceration has occurred, it may contain a considerable admixture of blood, a few drops of which will follow each urination, produced by the rupture of minute capillaries during the contraction of the circular muscular fibres which takes place at the end of that act. We have, then, certain conditions—ardor urinse, profuse purulent discharge, chordee, and frequent urination—which characterize the increasing stage of inflammatory gonorrhoea, and all of which occur with so much frequency that they should be regarded as symptoms of that stage, and not classed, as is sometimes done in the case of the two latter, with the complications. Under this head, however, and observed during the same period, some annoy- ing and troublesome results of inflammatory action may be described. Complications of First Stage. Balanitis.—When the inflammation, instead of remaining within the ure- thra or involving only the lips of the meatus, extends over the surface of the glans penis, we have the condition known as balanitis. This is usually caused by a neglect of cleanliness, the urethral discharge being permitted to remain in contact with the head of the penis, or allowed to accumulate under the foreskin, but it occasionally occurs, as has been said, from a simple extension of inflammatory action by continuity, and in spite of the greatest care. As in the case of gonorrhoea itself, some patients seem to be peculiarly subject to the development of this form of inflammatory action, and it has been noted that persons who have been troubled with erythema intertrigo are usu- ally sufferers from this complication. In dispensary and hospital practice it is seen in about one-fourth of all cases, in private practice not nearly so often. The susceptibility to irritation of the mucous membrane of the glans is, for obvious reasons, much less than that of the urethra. Pus which would in- stantly excite an active urethritis, may often be permitted with impunity to bathe this region; astringents, such as nitrate of silver, which, when injected per arethram, give exquisite pain, have little or no effect on the thicker epi- thelium of this part, which, in circumcised persons or those with short or retracted foreskins, closely resembles epidermis in density and insensitiveness. If it were not so, the most scrupulous cleanliness would not prevent the large majority of patients with the variety of gonorrhoea under consideration from having this complication. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Balanitis.—Its symptoms are those of super- ficial inflammation, heat, redness, burning or itching, and finally exfoliation of epithelium, leaving an eroded or sometimes a superficially ulcerated sur- face. Hot infrequently little crops of herpetic vesicles (see Plate VI. Fig. 2) appear, and may remain discrete until they desiccate, or they may pustulate, coalesce, and leave an ulcer which is sometimes mistaken for a chancre or chancroid. Between the balanitic ulcer and the chancroid, the differences seem to me chiefly those of degree, a more intensely irritating or corrosive pus causing deeper and more intractable ulceration. Indeed, I have on more than one occasion seen balanitic ulcers subsequently removed from treatment by the