(601) SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES.' BY JAMES C. WHITE, M.D., PROFESSOR OF DERMATOLOGY IN HARVARD UNIVERSITY. Affections of the Sebaceous Glands. Comedo. (Synonyms: Acne punctata ; Grub.)—When the secretion of the sebaceous glands is prevented from escaping, that portion which is exposed at the open mouth of the follicle becomes discolored by contact with external foreign matter, and forms a conspicuous dark speck resembling a grain of gunpowder embedded in the skin. By the continued accumulation of sebum within, the gland may become markedly prominent above the surface of the skin, and may attain the size of a mustard-seed or small shot; or by its dis- tension may provoke an inflammation of the surrounding cutaneous tissues, and thus be converted into a true acne pimple. If pressed upon, the con- tents may be squeezed out in the form of a cylinder of white cheesy matter, which, with the blackened tip, resembles a maggot, whence the popular name, “worm,” or “grub.” Examined by the microscope, this material is seen to be composed of fatty and modified epithelial cells, cholesterine, and lanugo hairs, which have been prevented from issuing from the adjacent hair follicle by this hardened sebum plug within their common duct. Occasionally, too, one or more of the microscopic parasites (demodex) of these follicles are thus removed, although their presence is in no way connected with the formation of the comedo. Comedones occur principally upon the skin of the forehead, nose, and tem- ples, but may affect any portion of the body. Like other disturbances of the sebaceous glands, they appear most commonly at the age of puberty, but, if not removed artificially, may last for an indefinite period. They are ap- parently in no way connected with the general condition of the system, but are often associated with juvenile acne. The cause of their formation is not clearly understood. It may be an alteration in the normal character of the sebaceous secretion, an undue proliferation in the cells which line the exit duct, or a want of tone, or sluggishness, in the gland. Treatment.—The surgical treatment of comedones consists in the forcible evacuation of their contents. This can generally be accomplished by the opposing pressure of the two thumb nails, but better by direct perpendicular pressure with a watch key. One with a small aperture and broad edge should be employed, so that the surrounding skin may not be too violently bruised. The operation should not be performed upon several contiguous glands at 1 The nomenclature and classification followed in the ensuing article are those adopted by the American Dermatological Association.