GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 164 eventually resorted to, with an excessive rate of mortality; . . . and consequently the results of the conservative, expectant plan are represented in a too favorable light.” An injury of this articulation, because of the anatomical structure of the damaged region, is almost certain to be followed by inflammation of high grade, attended by great pain, and extending through and beyond the carpus, unless tension is prevented or very promptly relieved. Suppurative synovitis of the tendon sheaths, which is so apt to occur, may be expected to give rise to destructive inflammation of the connective tissue planes of the forearm, and of the like tissue in the palmar subfascial bursa, unless judicious treat- ment be adopted, and not seldom will do so in spite of treatment. If no operative interference be required, the use of the usual remedial measures already referred to in connection with joint-injuries in general—rest, cold, position, etc.—must he thoroughly carried out. Much suppuration and delay in healing may often he prevented, and the chances of recovery correspond- ingly increased, by at once removing carpal bones which have been exten- sively shattered. Such an operation can hardly be considered a formal ex- cision, although cases thus treated have been so included by some authors. At most it is but an excision in, not of, the articulation. Primary hemorrhage from one of the large vessels is not a bar to the adoption of conservatism, as it may be controlled by the application of a ligature; and secondary bleeding, which at times occurs, may generally be arrested in the same way. Anchylosis of the wrist takes place in the great majority of cases which recover, but it is a matter of comparatively little importance if the finger motions have been preserved. Every care should be taken, by the selection of position and by moderation of inflammation, to prevent adhesion of the flexor and extensor tendons to their sheaths ; and early but judicious, passive, and at a later period active, motion should be made, in order to preserve, if possible, the finger movements, without which any saved hand is of little functional value. When formal excision is adopted, it should be by lateral incisions, as in the method of Lister, or by the dorso-radial, straight incision of Langenbeck; the cut across the dorsum is proper only when the missile has already divided the tendons. The lower part of either radius or ulna alone should not be removed, since after recovery the hand is almost certain to be deflected laterally, at times Fig. 264. Fig. 265. Deformity following removal of fragments from com- minuted gunshot fracture of radius. (A. M. M. Spec. 2671.) Deformity following excision of lower portion of radius. (McDermott.) even to a right angle (see Figs. 264, 265); if only one of the two bones is damaged, the lower end of the other should be equally exsected, in order that a straight position of the hand may be secured. Decided advantage