SYPHILIS OF THE EYELIDS AND LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 521 into the nostrils by a cone of paper or other convenient method. Blood-warm injections of a strong solution of chlorate of potassium or of common salt (3j ad Oj), or of a diluted solution of chlorinated soda (1 part to from 12 to 20 parts of water), are also useful. The nostrils should first be thoroughly cleansed by means of the nasal douche. It is a matter of great importance to follow out a thorough and complete system of cleansing and local medication in these cases, in order to limit and check the progress of the disease as rapidly as possible, and it must be remembered that, as long as there is any necrosed bone to come away there will be a foul discharge, so that the prognosis must be made with this fact in view. Olfactory Neuritis.—That the olfactory nerves may be attacked by syphilis has been shown by Bayle and Kergaradee1 who cite a case where these nerves were destroyed. Virchow also gives a case where these nerves were lost, so to speak, in the general disorganization of surrounding tissues. Gros and Lancereaux2 likewise cite analogous cases. Anosmia is of course the promi- nent symptom under these circumstances. Auditory Apparatus.—Syphilis of the ear is comparatively rare. Buck, of Yew York, met with but 30 cases out of a total of 3976 cases of ear affec- tions, though, owing to the fact that many cases go unrecognized, the propor- tion is probably larger. Chancre of the external ear has been met with in one recorded instance, and the various syphilitic lesions of the skin are of course encountered here, papules being most apt to occur in the post-auricular angle and upon the lobule of the ear, while the macular syphiloderm is seen in the fossa navicularis and concha. Vegetating papules are found in the external auditory canal, solitary or few in number near the outer opening, but sufficiently numerous and luxuriant further inwards to occasionally fill up the canal and hide the drum. Sometimes vegetations form on the drum itself, when perforation may result. They are accompanied by the discharge of a sero-purulent fluid which causes the affection to look like otitis externa. Simple papules or papulosquamous lesions are not found within the meatus. At a later period in the evolution of syphilis, ulcers of roundish form, covered with diphtheritic membrane, are liable to occur within the meatus, and gum- mata of the cellular tissue, cartilage, or bone, are also met with. Hyperosto- sis and exostosis may likewise occur in the external bony canal. The middle ear is that portion of the olfactory apparatus which is most apt to be the seat of syphilitic disease. Chancre of the Eustachian tube has been reported as the result of using unclean aural instruments, and mucous patches are not infrequently met with either in this tube or in the middle ear, sometimes disappearing under treatment, but sometimes ulcerating and destroying the tissues to a greater or less extent.3 Syphilis of the Eyelids and Lachrymal Apparatus.4 The various tissues which go to make up the eyelids may each be the seat of one or another of the lesions of syphilis. Chancres of the eyelids have 1 Nouv. Bibliotheque Med., quoted by Lancereaux. 2 Affections Nerveuses Syphilitiques. 3 For a description of the syphilitic lesions of the middle and inner ear, reference may be made to the article on affections of the ear in Vol. IV. of the present work ; to Bumstead and Taylor’s Treatise (p. 730 et seq.); and to the following monographs and papers: Gruber, Ueber Syphilis des Gehbrorgans (Wien. med. Presse, 1870, 1, 3, 6, 10); Roosa, Syphilitic Affections of the Ear (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., 1871, p. 07); Sexton, The Sudden Deafness of Syphilis (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1879, and Jan. 1880); and F. R. Sturgis, Affections of the Middle Ear during the Early Stages of Syphilis (Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. cii. p. 533, 1880). 4 The syphilitic lesions of the eye proper are considered in another article.