184 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. may cause a burrowing abscess which by subsequent ulceration of a large vessel, or by descent into the chest, will bring about a fatal result. In a case of this sort reported by Surgeon O. A. Judson, U. S. V., the abscess cavity “ reached upward five or six inches along the spine, and downward in the mediastinum to the bifurcation of the trachea, where the ball was found, point downward and resting against the right bronchial tube.” Prognosis.—Leaving out of consideration such as necessarily and quickly prove fatal from hemorrhage, or from associated injury of the brain or spinal cord, neck wounds cause death in a much smaller proportion of cases than might naturally be expected from the number and importance of the struc- tures contained in this region.1 At least one-half of the wmunds of the air- and food-tubes that come under treatment terminate fatally, and in a large proportion of those made by musket balls, there are associated lesions of more important parts that speedily cause death. As a rule, when one of the great bloodvessels is opened by a shot, life is quickly destroyed by the primary hemorrhage; but the bleeding may be arrested by compression (as in the well known case of the Duke of Padua, reported by Larrey), by the presence of the ball, or by the formation of a clot, and an opportunity may thus be afforded for the application of a ligature or of methodical pressure. Accord- ing to S. W. Gross, wounds of the internal jugular vein have always resulted fatally, but in two of the cases which he cites (Schwartz’s and Stromeyer’s), the rent in the vein was completely healed at the time of death from pysemia. Contusions of the main vessels are very likely to be followed by secondary hemorrhage, the detachment of the slough generally taking place at about the end of the second week, though sometimes much later; in a case of injury of the common carotid, observed by Cruz, of Lisbon, the bleeding “ did not show itself until the thirty-seventh day.” The prognosis in cases of nerve- wound unaccompanied by other grave lesions, is favorable as respects life, but not so as regards the after-comfort of the patient and the usefulness of the parts supplied by the damaged nerves. Treatment.—In the treatment of all varieties of neck-wounds in which the missile has lodged, unless this is quite small, it should be removed, pro- vided that its location can be determined, and that it can be reached (if necessary) by a careful dissection which will not in itself seriously imperil life. Though balls may remain for years without causing inconvenience, yet in the great majority of eases their presence does harm, and not infre- quently develops severe and often fatal inflammation. Even after such in- flammation has been lighted up, it may quickly subside upon the removal of a foreign body, the lodgment of which, though it is perhaps of large size, may not have been at first suspected. In a case reported by Duplay, a mitrailleuse ball, more than an inch and a half in diameter and of over six ounces weight, was for nearly four months lodged undis- covered between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. Upon its removal, rapid healing took place. Injuries of the larynx, trachea, pharynx, or oesophagus, are to be treated in the ordinary way. Threatened suffocation, if due to pressure of extravasated blood, or superficially located effusions and exudations, is to be relieved by free incision and by removal of the clot, if such be present, or by tra- cheotomy ; if to oedema of the glottis, by scarification, or by the opening of 1 In only 15 per cent, of the nearly five thousand (4895) cases tabulated by Otis, and even this is declared to be an excessive ratio because of the inclusion of many cases of grave injury that never came under treatment.