441 TREATMENT OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. Prognosis of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. Generally speaking, this may he said to be favorable, the large majority of chancroids healing rapidly without leaving any bad results behind, either in the way of systemic infection (for the disease is purely local, never consti- tutional), or from serious destruction of tissue. But to this, as to all rules, there are exceptions, and these usually occur when the chancroid is attacked by phagedsena. In such a case, the destruction is often frightful, and the in- curability of the ulcer, the exhaustion which it induces, and the serious hem- orrhages to which it gives rise, not infrequently tend to a fatal termination. Such cases are happily rare, at least among our white population, the fatal cases which I have seen having occurred in the dark-skinned races: indeed, I have often been struck with the peculiarly rebellious and alarming course which venereal diseases, particularly chancroid and syphilis, pursue among the negroes and Chinese. The same peculiarity I am told exists among the Mexicans, especial^ in those persons who have an admixture of negro or of Indian blood. Treatment of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. Under this heading, I shall first consider the treatment of the uncompli- cated chancroid, and shall afterwards take up the various complications. In the treatment of all chancroids, two indications must be steadily kept in view : the first is to prevent the extension of the ulceration and to relieve the in- flammation ; the second, to prevent the conveyance of the matter to adjacent or to distant tissues, and thus to obviate the production of fresh sores. How, as to the first point:—to prevent the extension of the ulceration and to relieve the inflammation. The best method of obtaining this result is the destruction of the ulcerated surface, and especially if it be large and pro- gressive, by some active cauterizing agent which shall so change the nature of the ulcer as to cause it to heal up instead of extending—what in ordinary parlance is known as “ destroying the virus.” The best agent for this pur- pose is the actual cautery, the iron being heated to a white heat, the galvano- cautery, or the Paquelin cautery, either one of which is sufficient to change the character of the sore. This form of cauterization is best adapted to ser- piginous, diphtheritic, and phagedfenic sores, where extension is rapid and destruction serious ; for the milder varieties, some less powerful caustic is sufficient. Of these, chemically pure sulphuric acid takes the lead for the thoroughness with which it destroys the ulceration ; next to this come caustic potassa, chemically pure nitric and carbolic acids, then iodine and bromine, and, last of all, the nitrate of silver, which cannot properly be called a caustic, its action being so superficial as to give it the character of a stimulating rather than that of a destructive agent. Many surgeons of the present day deprecate the use of caustic or destruc- tive agents for the treatment of the majority of chancroids met with in prac- tice, declaring that milder and less heroic measures suffice for the cure. Undoubtedly this is perfectly true, a large proportion of the simple venereal sores met with at the present day being of the mild and superficial variety, which will heal up under the use of iodoform or some such simple remedy. But the advantage of using a cauterizing agent, as long as the sore retains the appearances of inflammation and unhealthy action, is that for this condi- tion of things it substitutes a healthy action, and obviates what not infre- quently happens in chancroids, viz., a supervention of inflammation in what