141 TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Treatment of Secondary Effects.—Aside from the relieving of pain and shock, and the arresting of hemorrhage, the general treatment of gunshot wounds, as ordinarily practised, is very simple, having reference to the mod- erating of inflammation, and to preventing, as far as may be possible, the development of the secondary local and general infections already referred to. As in other injuries, the maintenance of rest, whether effected by position, by skilful bandaging, or by immobilization, is of great importance. The application of cold, by wet cloths, by irrigation, or by ice-bags, is very gener- ally found to afford comfort and to moderate inflammation, but is not to be employed as a mere matter of routine, but judiciously, with reference to the indications of the particular case; repair has often been much delayed by the too long continuance of cold dressings. Occasionally, though rarely, warm applications prove much more comfortable. In former times, enlargement of the track of the wound, by incision, was the regular practice, and it is still advocated by a few surgeons of eminence, especially among the French, the object sought being to provide a readier outflow for fluids, and to prevent, by division of the fibrous and aponeurotic tissues, any strangulation of the underlying parts. Such immediate dilatation, however, is not at the present day favored by the majority of surgeons, who believe, with Hunter, that the track should not be opened merely because it is a wound, nor unless “ there is something necessary to be done which cannot be executed unless the wound is enlarged.” With the object of converting the existing contused and lacerated wound into a simple subcutaneous one, Simon, half a century ago, advocated cutting away the edges of the wound, and suturing the incised skin margins, so that they might unite by the first intention ; and thirty years later, Chisolm wrote: “ Many ragged wounds may have their edges pared oft' and then be brought together, with every prospect of speedy union, provided the after- treatment with cold dressing is judiciously followed.’ Against such a method of treatment, it has been truly said, “ both reason and experience protest.” Of extreme value, in the treatment of gunshot injuries, is the observance, as far as may be practicable, of the ordinary hygienic rules; the part and the person are to be kept clean, sufficient fresh air secured, proper food in due amount administered, overcrowding prevented, and the subjects of infectious wound-diseases isolated. A very large percentage of the deaths after gunshot injury are from preventable causes, or causes that would be preventable were it not for the exigencies of military service. Though it must necessarily be of primary importance to cripple and destroy the enemy, and only of secondary importance to save the wounded, yet there is no good reason for crowding men into churches, and barracks, and warehouses; and still less for continu- ing the occupation of such buildings as hospitals, long after they have become mere hot-beds of infection. Treatment of Complications.— Traumatic Gangrene, when complicating gunshot wounds, and consequent upon extensive blood infiltrations or inflam- matory effusions or exudations, follows the same course, and is to be treated in the same manner, as when associated with other severe injuries—special interest attaching to it only when dependent upon excessive violence, destroy- ing at a blow the vitality of the limb, or when due to occlusion of the main artery; the latter is by far the more frequent occurrence. In either of these cases, amputation should be performed at once. As a general rule, it may be declared that when mortification of an extremity sets in after a shot wound of the main artery, or vein, or both, removal of the limb should be effected as soon as possible, and on a level at least with the point at which the vessel is injured. There should be no waiting for the establishment of a line of demar-