NEUROMA—ANGEIOMA. 637 such coincidence exists. It is noticeable, however, that in many cases the skin about the eyes in women thus affected is very darkly pigmented, making the light yellow patches of xanthoma more conspicuous. The structure of these growths has been variously interpreted by different observers. Virchow considers them connective-tissue new growths, the cells in the central portion of which have undergone fatty infiltration, while the outer are free from fat, and resemble sarcoma. Kaposi regards them as interstitial new growths of fibrous tissue, with deposits of yellow fat. Geber and Simon, recent observers, main- tain, on the other hand, that the growth is a hyperplastic development of the cells of the sebaceous glands proliferating into the fibrous tissues. The diag- nosis between xanthoma and milium is easy, for nothing resembling the con- tents of the sebaceous glands can be squeezed from the patch, by incision, as in the latter affection. Treatment.—The growths may be removed, if the patient desire an opera- tion, by the curette or by incision. Owing to the loose texture of the skin about the eyelids, large patches may be easily removed by dissection, and the edges of the wound brought together without subsequent deformity. Care must be taken, however, not to go more deeply into the underlying tissues than is necessary, for fear of possible ectropion. The growths, however, may be safely left to their own course, as they never give rise to anything more serious than disfigurement. Neuroma. This is a name which should be properly applied here to new growths of nerve tissue in the skin. It may perhaps be doubted if such, strictly speak- ing, occur. Cases have been described of small, multiple, tubercular masses of slow growth, situated in and rising above the skin, which eventually be- came the seat of intense paroxysmal pain, and which were very sensitive on pressure. The tubercles varied in size from that of a small pea to that of a filbert, were firm and elastic, and sometimes of a pinkish color. They were composed of connective tissue, with more or less of non-medullated nerve fibre. They were apparently closely allied to fibroma, and to the “ painful subcutaneous tubercle,” which has its seat beneath the skin. In the two cases above referred to,1 exsection of the nerve supplying the affected parts was followed by diminution of pain, and by a reduction in the size of the tumors. Angeioma. This is a new growth or hypertrophy of the bloodvessels of the skin, which shows itself in a variety of forms, all being included under the same general title. The simplest of these forms, those which arise during extra-uterine life, are called teleangiectases. They are enlargements or new growths, mostly of the superficial capillaries, and are observed sometimes as single or branched vascular twigs, of a bright-red, purplish, or bluish color, situated principally upon the nose and cheeks, especially in rosacea ; sometimes as circumscribed, circular patches of the size of a pea or bean, consisting of minute visible vessels radiating from a centre, which is occasionally elevated as a small point or papule of a brilliant scarlet hue (the “ spider cancer” of popular language); and sometimes as more prominent nodules, which are turgescent and of a reddish or purplish color. Teleangiectases may first show themselves in early 1 Duhriug’s Diseases of the Skin, 2d Edition, page 535.