GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 312 direct experiments upon this subject, by injecting pure alcohol into the crural vein of a dog, and thus producing a thrombus which passed into the pulmonary artery, and “ there,” as he says, “ became fixed, and occasioned great anxiety, convulsive efforts of breathing, and rapid death.” Later surgeons regarded clot as evidence of arteritis. But it is to Virchow that we owe the recognition of thrombosis in its con- nection with embolism, which, although recognized in the minds of observers in a vague way, for a long time, did not receive its full and scientific explana- tion until it was given by this writer. Long before Virchow’s experiments, however, Cruveilhier, in his admirable work on Pathological Anatomy, had maintained the doctrine of capillary phlebitis, and had connected the occur- rence of abscesses in the lungs and other organs with the existence of pus in the veins. But Virchow’s experiments tended to show that the apparent phlebitis was more often the sequence of thrombosis. That a thrombus should be formed is now easy for us to understand, for although the lining membrane of the vein possesses in its normal condition the ability to preserve the blood in its fluid state, by virtue, probably, of some special power of its own, the causes that may interfere with this condition are very numerous. The con- dition of inflammation itself, occurring upon the external surface of the vein, may extend through its coats, and in this way produce a tendency towards an exudation upon the lining membrane. Moreover, the epithelial covering may be removed, and then we have an abraded surface, well known to he favorable for the production of fibrinous accumulation and thrombus. When- ever this happens, there is repeated upon the surface of the vein the well- known experiment of the chemist, who collects his fibrin from the mass of blood by “ whipping ” it with twigs which present points for coagulation. A clot thus formed in a vein may become detached, and, floating in the circulation, may go into larger and larger trunks, until it reaches the right side of the heart, after passing through which it enters the pulmonary artery, and goes on until it is arrested in its progress by the diminishing size of the vessels. Then we have an embolon or plug in a branch of the pulmonary artery, and at once a section of the lung has its function arrested. But the causes that may produce coagulation in the veins are very numerous. Every surgeon has seen coagula thrown out from a vein when incising a hem- orrhoid. A coagulum is also formed where a vein is tied—and one, too, that moves easily from its attachments. To the above causes of thrombus we may add wounds of the veins, as from points of bone in cases of fracture, from phlebotomy, etc. A thrombus once formed, need not necessarily be detached. It may give rise to further coagulation until the whole vein is filled with a firm clot, which may, by its presence, become a cause of local inflammation. Uniting with the venous coats, if it does not inflame them, it may at length, according to the opinion of Billroth, become partly organized and partly absorbed, con- verting the vein into a cord. The clot that concerns the surgeon, however, is usually formed in the heart or arteries. It is easy to recognize its mode of development. The irregu- larity of the valves of the heart, and the frequency of their alteration in disease, producing changes in their shape, and also developing vegetations upon their surface, favor the production of coagula, which, becoming de- tached, pass at once into the systemic circulation. These vegetations may thus Ibe broken oft’, and after being lodged may become a nidus for further coagulation. I have seen such a growth, arising from the surface of the heart half an inch below the aortic opening; the rhythmical movement gradually drew it out, so as to form a pedicle, and aided a fibrinous increase.