142 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. cation, for in the great majority of instances this does not form, hut there is a rapid and uninterrupted, upward progress of the gangrene, and early death; the exceptional cases of spontaneous arrestation serve only to prove the rule. It is in the lower extremity that the death-in-mass thus occasioned, is usually seen, as a result of a wound of the femoral or popliteal artery. As has already been mentioned, in cases of such injury, a successful result will fre- quently attend amputation just below the knee, the blood carried through the unharmed profunda artery sufficing to keep alive the parts around and above that joint. In all cases of traumatic gangrene, great attention must he paid to the hygienic surroundings of the patient, and to the proper ad- ministration of food, stimulants, and tonics. Hospital Gangrene.—in the treatment of hospital gangrene, two things are aimed at: the arrestation of the local mortification, and the prevention of the spread of the disease. The former indication requires that the wound should he carefully cleansed, and then thoroughly cauterized. The strongly adherent sloughs will usually have to he taken away with forceps and scissors (or knife), any existing pockets or sinuses being freely laid open ; and the work of removal is to be continued until “ we meet evidences of vitality, or by hemorrhage are warned to go no further.” (Weeks.) The parts are next to be well scraped —to still further get rid of the diseased tissues—freely washed with warm water, plain or earbolized, and afterwards dried by the application of lint, oakum, absorbent cotton, or blotting paper. Then, and not until then, the cauterization is to be accomplished, and the utmost care must be taken that no portion of the wound is left untreated. Of the many cauterizing agents that have been used, the best are the hot iron, nitric acid, the permanganate of potassium, the percliloride and the persulphate of iron, and bromine. Tur- pentine, sugar, glycerine, and camphor have been largely used, but the re- sults, though satisfactory in the milder cases, are not such as to warrant the adoption of these agents in preference to those previously mentioned. During our late war, bromine was found by the majority of surgeons who saw much of the disease to be the most reliable application, promptly stopping local extension, and promoting rapid healing.1 In the few cases that came under my own observation, the permanganate of potassium was employed with very satisfactory results. The acute pain, which is often so prominent a symptom of the disease, necessitates the use of opium or morphia, in full doses, or, as has lately been recommended, chloral, which, however, can act only as a calmative or hyp- notic ; when it will answer the purpose, it is preferable to opium, as not impairing the appetite nor producing constipation. Hemorrhage, if it oc- curs, is to be arrested in the ordinary way, by the application of the actual cautery, or one of the salts of iron already mentioned, if the bleeding is from the general surface; by the use of the ligature, if it is from a vessel of some size. The patient is to be well nourished, and stimulated if necessary; the bad effect of depressants was long ago established. An abundant supply of pure air is always to be secured. To prevent the spread of the disease, those affected must be separated from the rest of the wounded, and there should he absolutely no communication between the gangrenous and non-gangrenous patients, whether by attendants, by dressings, or Iby currents of air. An infected ward or an infected hospital should be abandoned—permanently if possible, but, at all events, temporarily. 1 F. H. Hamilton, Jr., showed that the average duration of treatment was less than one-half of that after the application of nitric acid.