658 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The results of inoculation and of artificial cultivation, too, support the view of the specific individuality of these affections. Upon the general surface, favus causes at times a slight degree of irritation, occasionally sufficient to excite an eczematous inflammation in the underlying and surrounding skin ; but generally its presence is productive of little incon- venience. Upon the scalp, however, its effects are of a more serious nature. The hairs soon begin to change color, becoming gray or white, lustreless, stiff', and brittle, and after a while break off at the surface, or are discharged by suppuration with the surrounding favus masses. The disease spreads in time over the whole scalp, the loss of hair beginning generally at the front and lateral portions. The baldness may be only temporary, but in chronic cases the papillae and follicular structures may be entirely destroyed by atrophy or by inflammation produced by the presence within them of the fungus growth. In this way is caused the firm, white, and glazed condition of the scalp, so characteristic of old cases of favus. In some instances, atrophy of the bones of the skull, even, has been observed. It can be easily understood that, by combing and scratching, or by rupture of the crusts in other ways, and by the use of bandages and caps worn to conceal the presence of the disease, favus mattei- may be transplanted from one part of the scalp to another. Upon the constitution and health generally, favus lias little or no effect. It is often seen upon sickly looking children, but such coincidence indicates merely a neglect most favorable to the progress of both the local and the general affection. It may possibly thrive more vigorously upon the devitalized epi- dermal tissues of a person debilitated by disease, but it occurs also upon those in robust health. Favus affects the nails, too, occasionally; generally in persons who either carry the growth in some other part, or have charge of those affected by it. The substance of the nails becomes yellow, opaque, and greatly thickened, and their surface becomes rough. A well-defined favus crust may sometimes form beneath them. If we examine, with the microscope, the matter of which a favus crust is composed, upon whatever part of the body it may be growing, we shall find, in addition to modified epithelial cells: (1) innumerable minute cells of an irregularly ovoid shape, attached to each other in groups or rows, and about ~5 oVo °f an inch in diameter; (2) others more or less swollen, elongated, divided, or branched; (8) long and very slender tubes, extending from the masses of cells, and more or less subdivided by partition walls, and branched ; and (4) matter so small as to appear without definite form when examined by a very high power. The first two forms are the spores or conidia, the third is the mycelium, and the last micrococcus. The spores predominate in the centre of the crust, while the mycelium is found more largely at its periphery, extending into the surrounding epidermis, which holds it encapsuled. If we remove the hair which pierces the centre of the crust, with its sheaths attached, we shall find the walls of the latter distended with innumerable spores, and with the mycelium shooting out into the surrounding tissues. If the hair has been sufficiently long affected to present to the eye the appearances above de- scribed, it will be found when examined with the microscope, after maceration in a solution of potassa, to be permeated by canals running lengthwise be- tween its fibres, and by beaded tubes extending longitudinally throughout its substance. Rows of conidia may also be seen encircling the shaft of the hair. Favus is a rare disease in comparison with the other parasitic affections of vegetable origin. It is mostly met with upon the heads of poor children, for its elements seldom succeed in establishing themselves upon surfaces fre- quently washed or brushed. Although positively contagious, it is far less so than Tinea trichophytina, and never runs through schools and asylums like