254 THE EFFECTS OF COLD. when it results from an ordinary attack of apoplexy. The sedative effect of cold on the general circulation is probably the result of a diminution of the heart’s muscular powers. [The mechanism of death from cold has been made a subject of special inves- tigation by M. Lehastard, who finds that it may occur from several distinct conditions; thus, in cases of sudden and progressive chilling, the fatal result may be due to cerebral anaemia, while in cases of slow and, continuous chilling, it results from cerebral congestion; again, in cases of sudden re-heating, death follows—as pointed out by Mathieu and Urbain—from embolism due to clots formed by the disengagement of carbonic acid from the blood, and finally, in cases of partial congelation, death usually results from congestion, but occa- sionally from anaemia, both conditions being caused by capillary embolism from clots originating in the injured part.] As has already been remarked, cold, when first applied to the body, produces a decidedly stimulating effect—this stage soon passing into one of pain and torpor. When no longer exposed to the cold, the bodily heat rapidly re- turns, and usually exceeds the normal standard. Locally, cold, like heat, which also at first produces an agreeable sensation, interferes with the circu- lation in the minute vessels of the exposed part, and, in proportion to the degree of interference, we may have simply a painful condition of the parts, without inflammation; or, going a stage farther, slight inflammation, just sufficient to produce the effusion requisite for the formation of a blister. When the cold has been sufficiently long applied to render the parts pallid or white, just as if the blood had been mechanically forced out of them, vesica- tion is not observed. This may be truly considered an important stage of frost-bite, as the final result will greatly depend upon the method adopted in order to restore the threatened vitality of the affected tissues. Mortification from severe frost-bite almost invariably involves all the tissues of the part affected. It seldom takes place at once, but usually re- quires several days for its definite results to fully declare themselves. It is not unusual for a frost-bitten part to present quite a good appearance for a day or two, and then to become discolored, passing from a light blue color to a deeper blue, and ultimately to black, and having an unmistakable, gangrenous odor. As pointed out by Larrey,1 cold in cases of frost-bite is not the determining, but rather the predisposing cause of mortificat ion, the occurrence of which is usually immediately determined by a higher temperature. According to this writer, the French soldiers, before the battle of Eylau, did not experience any painful sensation during the continuance of the severe cold to which they had been exposed in the night watches of the early days of February, and it was not until the second day after the battle, when the temperature had risen from —15° R. (—4° F.) to +5° R. ( + 43° F.), a great quantity of sleet hav- ing fallen on the same morning, and having been the forerunner of the thaw which took place in the course of that day, and continued in the same degree for several days, that they felt the first effects of cold, complaining of acute pain in the feet, and of numbness, heaviness, and prickings in the extremities. The parts were scarcely swollen, and of an obscure red color. In some few cases, a slight redness was perceptible about the roots of the toes and on the back of the foot, while in a few others, the toes were destitute of motion, sen- sibility, and warmth, being already black, and as it were withered. The cold produced during a thaw is more severe, on account of the accom- panying evaporation, than that which is experienced whilst freezing continues. Mr. South inclined to the belief that a greater degree of dry cold, than of wet 1 Memoires et Campagnes, t. iii. p. 60. Paris, 1812.