516 SYPHILIS. Ulcerative Cancer of the Tongue. 4. Begins by the appearance of a hard superficial nodule, an external tumor ; then more or less rapid ulceration of the sur- face. No opening or evacuation as of an abscess at the beginning of the ulcer ; no excavation. 5. Lesion always single and unilateral, with rare exceptions. 6. May occupy the inferior aspect of the tongue. 7. Lesion made up of a tumor, the su- perficial portion of which is ulcerated. 8. Edges in relief, forming a raised bor- der, irregular, everted, notched, etc. 9. Surface bleeding easily at the slightest touch. 10. Secretion abundant, becoming in the advanced stage fetid and ichorous. 11. The ulcer spontaneously painful, lancinating. Occasionally radiating pains towards the ear. 12. Functional troubles always marked and sometimes extreme; immobilization of the tongue ; difficulty of speech, of mas- tication, of deglutition ; salivation, etc. 13. Lesion leading gradually, after a given time, to general symptoms of ca- chexia. 14. Anatomical examination reveals the characters of epithelioma. 15. Ganglia affected after a certain period. 16. Anti-syphilitic treatment is without benefit, or even injurious. Ulcerative Gumma of the Tongue. 4. Begins by a hard internal nodule; then sudden opening as of an abscess; a cavern at first, then rapid ulceration, dis- playing the mammillated bottom of the tu- mor. 5. Lesion sometimes multiple and bi- lateral. 6. Is localized exclusively upon the superior surface and edge of the tongue; never affects the lower surface. 7. Lesion made up of an ulceration without a true tumor, in the proper ac- ceptation of the word. 8. Excavated, sharply-cut edges, smooth and defined. 9. Bottom irregular and not bleeding. 10. Secretion relatively scanty and not ichorous. 11. Ulcer not spontaneously painful, not lancinating. 12. Functional disturbances very much less marked than in cancer. Tongue not immobilized as in cancer.—at least not to the same degree. 13. The lesion itself does not give rise to cachexia. 14. Anatomical examination reveals the characters of degenerated gummatous hyperplasia. 15. Ganglia intact. 16. Anti-syphilitic treatment produces a beneficial effect. Treatment.—The treatment of the more superficial and early forms of syphilis of the tongue is that of early syphilis in general, mercury holding the most important place. The later affections, and in particular deep sclerous glossitis and gummatous glossitis, require iodide of potassium for their successful management. Local treatment is important. It comprises cleanliness and various topical applications. In the case of the superficial lesions, astringent gargles containing chlorate of potassium (as mentioned under the head of mucous patches), together with stimulating applications, as of the nitrate-of-silver stick lightly touched upon the part, will be found most satisfactory. But for the later lesions these must be laid aside: chlorate of potassium, alum, borax, etc., are here all useless, as are also mercurial gargles, which, indeed, are sometimes positively harmful. Mucilaginous washes are most soothing and grateful. Decoction of marsh-mallow—not gargled hastily, but allowed to remain in the mouth at least five minutes, and repeated twenty or thirty times a day—will be found to give much relief to the patient, and to hasten the cure. Emollient douches of marsh-mallow decoction serve to keep the surface clean and pure in the ulcerative forms of the disease, and the atomization of warm emollient decoctions, and, in.