(587) VENEREAL DISEASES: BUBON D’EMBLEE, VENEREAL WARTS OR VEGETATIONS, PSEUDO- VENEREAL AFFECTIONS, VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE LOWER ANIMALS. BY H. R. WHARTON, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA ; SURGEON TO THE CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Bubon d’Emblee. Bubon d’Emblbe, “or bubo at the first onset” (Primary Bubo), is a name applied to an inflammation of the glands of the groin, occurring after sexual intercourse, and apparently not depending upon any lesion of the genitals— the theory of those writers who introduced the term being that the peculiar virus of the chancre or chancroid might enter the lymphatic vessels of the skin or mucous membrane, and be conveyed to the nearest group of glands, there to excite its characteristic inflammation, without producing any lesion of the tissues at its point of entrance. This manner of origin was considered possible by many of the older writers upon Venereal Diseases, among whom may be mentioned, John Hunter, Vidal (de Cassis), Gibert, and Castelnau— the latter authority reporting several cases of the so-called bubon d’emblee, in regard to all of which, however, there is ground for doubt, either the examina- tion of the genitals having been incomplete, or deferred too long, or the ante- cedents of the patient not having been sufficiently inquired into. Ricord1 believes that the theory of the bubon d’emblee is unfounded, and Cullerier2 declares that the bubo which has received this name is nothing but a simple adenitis, such as may result from over-exertion or fatigue incurred in any manner whatever. Ch. Mauriac,3 in an exhaustive study of this subject recently published, in which he has carefully studied many cases of the so-called bubon d’emblee occurring under his own observation, states that not one case is complete or unassailable, and that the existence of the chancroidal and of the syphilitic bubon d’emblee cannot be admitted. Berkeley Hill4 declares that the bubon d’emblee is not followed by syphilitic eruptions; that the pus of this bubo is not of the nature of the pus of the virulent [chancroidal] bubo; but that it often follows coitus, and is generally seen in persons of that constitutional 1 Ricord and Hunter on Venereal Diseases, p. 341. 2 Precis Iconographique des Maladies Veneriennes, p. 304. 3 Etude sur le Bubon d’Emblee. Paris, 1880. 4 On Syphilis and Local Contagious Disorders, p. 356.