551 SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Paraplegia is a rare syphilitic nervous affection. It is usually brought about by direct or indirect lesions of the cord or its membranes. Sometimes it is due to a neoplasm involving the cerebral motor centres. Cases of acute myelitis with paraplegia occurring in syphilitic subjects, and supposed to be due to the syphilitic disease in its early period, have been reported by Mau- riac and others. Among the more prominent features of syphilitic paraplegia the following may be mentioned. Contrary to what occurs in hemiplegia, where vesical contractility is always intact, dysuria is often one of the earliest symptoms. The patient expels his urine with difficulty, and often fancies that he is suf- fering with urethral stricture. Imperfect erection with premature expulsion of the semen on attempting copulation is likewise common. The affection runs a rapid course, soon reaching its full development, and then remaining unchanged for a long time, sometimes indefinitely; it is rare, however, to observe complete palsy of the lower limbs ; commonly there is nothing more than a difficulty of movement—paresis. Among the most important concomi- tant symptoms, from a diagnostic point of view, are headache and backache —rachialgia—very frequent and very significant signs of the syphilitic affec- tion, above all when they occur or become aggravated at night. Syphilitic paraplegia is by no means the mild affection it has sometimes been represented. Although mercury and iodide of potassium often have a marvellous influence upon it,1 and indeed are the true criteria of diagnosis, they by no means invariably cure. The rule, indeed, is that the morbid tis- sue disappears only to leave behind it some indelible trace of its presence, and that the patient not only does not get completely well, but is subject to relapses, each more severe than the previous attack. Left to itself, the affec- tion may give rise to serious complications; retention of urine may lead to incurable lesions of the bladder and kidneys, and the position which the patient is obliged to assume may in time give occasion to sloughing bedsores, with possible purulent infection. Epilepsy, or rather the occurrence of epileptiform attacks, is among the commonest phenomena of syphilitic cerebral disease, a fact which is not sur- prising when it is remembered that the cortical portion of the brain, the favorite seat of syphilis, is at the same time the seat of the motor centres. The epileptiform attack may occur at the beginning of the cerebral disease, or it may occur during its course as an epiphenomenon of serious import, and one usually presaging fresh complications. At present, only epilepsy as it occurs by itself will be considered. The utmost importance attaches to the diagnosis between syphilitic and non-syphilitic epilepsy, especially from a therapeutic point of view. The chief characteristics of the variety we have under consideration, are as follows: In the first place, there is nothing peculiarly distinctive with regard to the fre- quency of the attacks ; they may occur daily or they may occur monthly, or they may occur several times in twenty-four hours. Occasionally they recur at certain hours. Night is a favorite time, as it is also for the attacks of common epilepsy. Various causes have been assigned as immediately pro- vocative of the attacks, but these are so numerous and in many cases so tri- fling that I do not think that they can be seriously considered. With regard to the crisis itself, this is sometimes sudden, the patient dropping as if shot; more frequently, however, there is an aura, often consisting of an inexpressible dis- comfort at some point, rapidly becoming generalized over the entire body. The “cry” of common epilepsy is rarely uttered—an important diagnostic point. 1 Cases are given by Fournier and Buzzard where paralysis of all four limbs has been entirely cured.