479 SYPHILITIC FEVER. two former varieties. It is scarcely describable, passing and repassing from one form to another, from continuousness to intermittence, an intermittence capricious and indeterminate in character, and greatly prolonged. Diagnosis of Syphilitic Fever.—The diagnosis between the intermittent type of syphilitic fever and malarial intermittent has already been dwelt upon. The continued forms of syphilitic fever may be mistaken for variola, as has been already said, and also for typhoid fever and rheumatism. The diagnosis from variola will be touched upon further in dealing with the papular and pustular syphilodermata, for it is only when these eruptions are present that the mistake is likely to be made. From typhoid fever, the absence of initial epistaxis, stupor of the countenance, intestinal disturbances (diarrhoea, gurgling in the iliac fossa, meteorism, etc.), buccal coating, bronchial rales, swelling of the spleen, rose-colored lenticular rash, etc., will distinguish syphilitic fever. In a certain number of cases, where the syphilitic fever is accompanied by what Fournier calls “ secondary pseudo-rheumatism,” it simulates subacute rheumatic fever most closely, and the diagnosis can only be made after the most minute examination, bearing chiefly on the points of the correlative or independent occurrence of the febrile and articular symptoms ; if these latter are or are not developed in a rheumatic subject and under the influence of an existent rheumatism ; if they affect the characters of syphilitic joint-troubles1 rather than those of common rheumatism ; if they coincide with some symp- toms of the same order but more distinctly syphilitic (as, for example, peri- ostitis, periostosis, tenosynovitis, etc.). With these various points in mind, the diagnosis can in many cases be arrived at with some degree of certainty. Nevertheless, cases will arise in which it is simply impossible to distinguish between syphilitic fever accompanied by rheumatismal manifestations and ordinary rheumatism, at least until some symptom arises which is beyond doubt distinctive. Prognosis of Syphilitic Fever.-—The intermittent form of syphilitic fever is a comparatively unimportant manifestation of the disease, but the continuous variety, particularly when it extends over a considerable period of time, may lead to more or less serious nutritive disturbance. Patients sometimes fall into a state of ansemia, languor, and general atony, from which it is difficult to arouse them. In women, who are much more prone than men to sutler with the severer forms of syphilitic fever, this condition sometimes exists to a marked degree. It may be added that the severe forms of continuous syphilitic fever are apt to be followed at a later period by grave visceral syphilitic lesions. Treatment of Syphilitic Fever.—Mercury, alone or combined with iodide of potassium, is the only satisfactory medicine which can be administered in syphilitic fever. Quinine, arsenic, etc., are entirely without specific value. The influence of mercury is, however, not uniform in all the varieties ; while it is rapidly and certainly effective in the intermittent form, it is much less energetic and is slower in its action when given in the continuous variety. For this reason the dose should be double or triple that given in the inter- 1 Fournier points out the following peculiarities of syphilitic joint-troubles : There is less acute and less inflammatory articular effusion—often, indeed, this is minimal and insignificant (many cases of articular syphilis are nothing more than simple arthralgia, without tumefaction, red- ness, effusion, or appreciable lesion); the articular attacks are more invariable, not as shifting nor as multiple as in rheumatism ; there are very frequently nocturnal exacerbations ; there are less marked general reaction, fewer sympathetic symptoms, absence of sweating and cardiac compli- cations, etc.