713 BURSiE OP THE ISCHIO-FEMORAL REGION. Teno-synovitis usually coexists, or at least appears to do so. The diagnosis is too manifest to need further words. Treatment.—The success of this depends upon the recognition of the consti- tutional vice. The part should be put at perfect rest until most of the local heat and tenderness have disappeared. A light vulcanite splint, moulded to the finger, so as to keep it semi-fiexed, or some similar arrangement, should be employed. Absorbent cotton, wet with a five-per-cent, solution of lactic acid, should be kept applied, unless the skin becomes sore, when some sedative astringent, such as hammamelis, can be used. Or, again, spirit lotions, con- taining various proportions of iodide of potassium, applied in the same manner, will prove efficacious. After the disease becomes more chronic, the surgeon must remember not to keep the joint quiet too long for fear of anchylosis. Passive and active movement, cautiously made, rubbing, and hot alkaline bathing or douching, should be used. At times the judicious appli- cation of the thermo-cautery, heated in boiling water, may prove useful. Usually mere reddening of the skin is all-sufficient, but occasionally blistering by this means will be necessary, before any useful result can be obtained. An elastic rubber bandage often serves an admirable purpose in removing the remaining stiffness and thickening of the inter-phalangeal joints. This ban- dage should be cut from a strong rubber capote, since no other rubber tissue is thin enough, and may be secured by a piece of bobbin attached to one end. Constitutional and strict dietetic treatment are of paramount importance. Iodide of potassium, in small doses, guarded by muriate of ammonium, either with or without colcliicum; the natural alkaline waters; and, above all, a resi- dence at some appropriate spa, will act better than any mere local measures. The Hot Sulphur Springs of Virginia or Florida, the Richfield Springs, or the Buffalo or Wolf Trap Lithia Springs, are the best in this country. The only natural water used at the patient’s house, of which I have any experience, is the Buffalo Lithia water, which I have used with undoubted advantage in my own person. It should be taken in large quantities and for a long time. Having had no personal acquaintance with the effects of the English and Continental natural waters, I prefer to refer my readers to such writers as Banvell and others who have had ample experience in the treatment of rheu- matic and gouty affections by such means.1 If any surgeon who reads this has had the care of one of these annoying cases, no apology will be needed for this extended notice. The disease is so incapacitating, and so difficult of cure, that having had successful personal experience in its treatment, I am glad to be able to add my mite to the knowledge of its therapeutics. It is essentially a chronic affection, and, in consequence, treatment must be persisted in for months and even years; but I believe that in the end most cases can be cured, or that at least the disease can be so kept in abeyance that the patients practically recover.2 BlTRSiE OP THE IsCHIO-FeMORAL REGION. A large bursa exists between the ilio-psoas muscle and the capsule of the hip-joint, with which in adults it communicates; another, subtegumentary, is often found over the trochanter major; one is present between the trochan- ter major and the gluteus medius, and often extends betwixt the tendon of this muscle and that of the pyriformis although at times there is a separate 1 Barwell, op. cit., p. 398. s Of course the distinction between “ tonic” and “ atonic ” gout must be made with reference to treatment. The reader is referred to Barwell (Diseases of the Joints, London, 1881, pp. 220- 245), for much valuable advice as to the treatment of rheumatic and gouty arthritis, much of which is applicable to the therapeutics of the variety of disease which I am here describing.