SYPHILIS. 470 factory and certain diagnostic differences between herpes and chancre. The contour of a chancre is represented either by a circle of a certain diameter, more or less; by an oval figure; or by an irregular geometrical outline. The contour of a large patch of herpes on the other hand is of a curiously figurate character, made up of a series of incomplete circles (Fig. 329). This Fig. 329. ■ Oo 0 ° ® £3 • o a Outlines of chancre and herpes, showing polycyclic contour of herpetic lesions ; a, chancre ; 6, herpes. “polycyclic” form, as Fournier calls it, is not accidental; it results from the fusion of a number of independent circular lesions, and is pathognomonic of herpes. Of course chancre does not possess this peculiarity because it is not made up in the same manner. To these diagnostic signs between herpes and chancre, which are to be depended upon when a conclusion is to be reached if possible at the first view, may be added another which requires time, I mean the ulterior evolu- tion of the lesion, which is of course the criterion par excellence. If the lesion is herpes, repair quickly takes place, and rapid cicatrization, with no after symptoms. If, on the other hand, it is a chancre, the process of repair is in most cases a slower one. The lesion extends a little, or more frequently remains stationary as regards size, meanwhile assuming a more and more characteristic appearance, and the accompanying ganglionic enlargement •shows itself unequivocally. Of course, all uncertainty is at an end when, after a few weeks, generalized symptoms make their appearance. One cause of possible error must be alluded to at this point: it is the for- tuitous coexistence of herpes and chancre in an identical locality. This is not as rare as might be supposed; in fact, Fournier says it is not uncommon in women. It may occur through the inoculation of the syphilitic virus upon an herpetic ulcer, or, on the other hand, an outbreak of herpes is some- times induced as a result of the irritation of a chancre, and in its immediate neighborhood. In the female, chancre may occasionally be confounded with erosive vul- vitis, especially as this occurs in infants and young children.1 Ordinarily the diffuse and superficial character of the vulvitis is sufficient to distinguish it from that circumscribed form which sometimes shows itself around a chancre. ISTow and then, however, instead of showing itself in the form of confluent and desquamative erosions, this form of vulvitis displays discrete and somewhat excavated lesions, of a bright red color or of a pultaceous gray aspect, and in these cases the affection resembles chancre so closely that it is almost impossible to distinguish the two affections at first sight. The im- portance of this, in a medico-legal point of view, in the case of infants and young children said to have been the subjects of criminal assault, is of course very great. Fournier says that in medico-legal cases he makes it an invari- 1 See Gougenheim, Des Folliculites Vulvaires Externes. Ann. de Derm, et de Syph., 2me ser.,