29 TREATMENT TO HELP QUICK OR PRIMARY UNION. combined. When by the use of trustworthy adhesive plaster the object sought for can be obtained, sutures are not called for; and when sutures are used, the form of suture that carries out the object in view in the simplest way is the best. Interrupted Suture.—When the wound is superficial, the sutures need not be introduced deeply; but when the wound is deep, the practice of bringing the edges of the wound and not the deeper parts together, is fraught with dan- ger, since the repair by primary union which is looked for cannot take place, and between the separated surfaces of the deeper parts of the wound, blood, serum, or inflammatory fluids will collect and give rise to trouble. Hence in deep wounds the sutures should either be all introduced deeply, or deep as well as superficial sutures should be employed. The interrupted is the most useful form of suture (Fig. Fig. 210. 210), and it is applicable to superficial as well as to deep wounds. In the superficial, it should be in- serted with suflicient depth and closeness to bring the surfaces and edges of the part accurately and closely together, and it should be tied with enough force to carry out these objects, but not with more ; since to tie a suture as a surgeon would a ligature, is to do harm—the suture cutting rapidly through the strangulated tissues, and in so doing irritating the part instead of helping repair. In d.eep wounds the sutures must be inserted deeply, as in harelip operations, and introduced well away from the edges of the separated tissues, interrupted suture, so that when they are tightened the deeper parts as well as the superficial will be brought effectually into apposition. In some cases deep and superficial sutures may be made to alternate. Superficial sutures should include neither muscle nor deep fascia. In the majority of cases in which sutures are employed, it is an excellent plan to alternate the sutures with the strapping; a narrow band of the latter, carefully adjusted between the stitches (as shown in Fig. 210), not only materially aiding the adaptation of the edges of the wound, but, if well applied, tending towards the prevention of tension, and towards the immo- bility of the wounded part, while at the same time it gives important aid in the way of affording local pressure to the deeper portions of the wound. In operations on the breast, the advantages of this practice are well exemplified. [If wire is employed for the interrupted suture, the ends may be simply twisted, or may be passed through a Galli’s tube, or a perforated shot which is then clamped with strong forceps. This variety of the interrupted suture is known as the shot or shotted, suture.] Continued Suture.—The uninterrupted,, con- tinued, or glover's suture (Fig. 211), is valu- able in cases of wound of the intestine, as well as in those of the eyelids and face gene- rally ; indeed, a clean wound of these parts —superficial or deep—may be so accurately and well adjusted by means of a fine needle and thread as to leave but a minimum of scar. In operations about the lip, the same remarks are applicable, although, in these, care should be observed to introduce the sutures deeply, and well Fig. 211.