SUBACUTE OR CATARRHAL GONORRIICEA. 345 urethra, predisposing to erection; gravitation, the proportionately excessive supply of blood to the region, and the absence of extra-vascular resistance due to the loose character of the spongy tissue, all favor the persistence of any vascular enlargement or congestion left after a first attack of urethritis ; the condition of approximation of the mucous surfaces, as of the urethral walls during the intervals of micturition, is here as elsewhere unfavorable to the disappearance of granular or injected areas, or other traces of inflamma- tion. For these and other reasons, among the immense number of young men who have had gonorrhoea once, comparatively few escape subsequent manifestations, a predisposing cause being usually present, although some additional irritant such as contact with menstrual fluid, or with a leucorrlioeal secretion, is generally necessary to bring on marked symptoms. A patient with this variety of urethritis will present himself to the surgeon at a variable time after a suspicious or an unaccustomed connection, with a free, muco-purulent or purulent, urethral discharge. He will complain of very little pain, possibly only of a sensation of warmth during urination, or there may not be the least alteration of sensibility. Chordee is absent or very slight, there is no vesical irritability, and the complications which have been detailed are exceedingly infrequent. The only affection for which this form of gonorrhoea is likely to be mistaken is urethral chancre, the possibility of which should never be forgotten. The diagnosis between infecting chancre of the urethra and gonorrhoea may be made by attention to the following points :— Urethkal Chancre. Symptoms appear after a period of in- cubation rarely less than ten days, often two or three weeks. Confined to meatus or its immediate neighborhood. Ardor urinse felt only at lips ; no chor- dee. Discharge moderate, never purulent, often bloody. Induration perceptible to touch, usually involving only one lip of meatus. Invariable enlargement of chain of in- guinal lymphatics, which are painless and freely movable, and almost never suppurate. Sore can almost always be seen as a loss of continuity of mucous membrane. Constitutional symptoms follow after from six to eight weeks. Use of syringe painful at meatus. Urethritis. Symptoms follow suspicious intercourse in from twenty-four hours to a week, rarely at a longer interval. Begin at meatus but extend some dis- tance backward. Ardor urinae felt along the urethra; chor- dee often present. Discharge more profuse, decidedly purulent,1 not so often or so largely stained witli blood. No induration. If lymphatics are involved at all, only one is affected, which often goes on to suppuration. No loss of continuity perceptible. No constitutional symptoms. Use of syringe not usually painful. Under treatment, the discharge rapidly diminishes, until only a drop or two of muco-pus can be seen, and that chiefly in the mornings. This symptom is apt to linger in spite of all efforts to remove it, and is perhaps 1 Dr. J. Nevins Hyde states very positively that “when a man exhibits a decidedly purulent urethral discharge, without coincident symptoms of unmistakable syphilis, he can be safely pro- nounced free from all danger of the last-named disease, provided always the period of incuba- tion of syphilitic chancre has, in his history, already elapsed. Intra-urethral chancre need therefore never be mistaken for gonorrhoeal disease, as the two affections are so distinct that a differential diagnosis can usually he satisfactorily established without the aid of the endoscope.” (Chicago Medical Journal, August, 1880.)