GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 174 toms and save the patient, there is certainly good reason why in these eases operative interference should be attempted. Fig. 273. Fig. 274. Fractures of Cranium.—These, as consequent upon gunshot injury, may be partial, only one of the two tables of the injured bone giving away; or, and this is ordinarily the case, complete. More or less comminution is usually produced; at times limited to the immediate vicinity of the point struck, but not seldom affecting the bone over a considerable area, or even involving every part of the cranium, with or without associated separation of sutures.1 The extensive shatterings are almost always due to shell-injuries, or to perforating wounds made by rifle-balls of large size. When the force of impact is not great, only one of the tables may be broken; usually the inner, not because of its special brittleness, but in accordance with Teevan’s Fig. 275. Fig. 276. Section of frontal bone, showing fissure over left supra-orbital region. (A. M. M., Spec. 24.) law that the breaking takes place in the line of extension. Fracture of the outer table alone very rarely occurs (though it does at times happen) except when the injury is inflicted over the frontal sinus, the mastoid process, or the occipital protuberance.2 In fractures of the lower frontal region, in children, 1 In Circular No. 3, S. G. O., 1871, a case is reported by Assistant Surgeon Yeomans, U. S. A., in which, in consequence of a musket-hall perforation (the hall fired at a distance of 315 yards entering through the posterior part of the parietal, and emerging through the frontal hone), all of the eight cranial bones were broken, as shown at the autopsy. (Fig. 273.) 2 Otis declared that he was disinclined to admit that the outer table of the skull was ever fractured in the adult, without injury to the inner table, either by projectiles of war or other external violence, except in the rare instances of blows or the impact of missiles upon the superciliary ridges, the mastoid or zygomatic processes, and possibly the occipital protuberance ; or in cases of grooving by a sharp shell fragment. Internal view of frontal bone, showing splintering of vitreous table. (Same specimen as Fig. 275.)