SYPHILIS. 450 to this question, but the weight of evidence, I think, lies in favor of the first view, and against the local character of chancre. Those who favor the local view of chancre, point to the period of so-called “ second incubation,” the space of time which elapses after the chancre has appeared, and during which it lies dormant, so to speak, for several weeks before any signs of general infection occur. In opposition to this view, how- ever, it may be remarked, that a period of incubation follows the inoculation of the virus, and that it is during this first “ incubation” that the poison is penetrating the system. The chancre is, in fact, the first outward sign of the constitutional infection; the “ second incubation” being indeed only a halt between two outbreaks. The fact that auto-inoculation of chancre cannot be effected (see p. 460, note), shows, I think, most conclusively, that the entire system is already saturated with the poison. This question is of practical importance, for if indeed chancre were only a local manifestation, its prompt excision might prevent infection of the system, while if it is only the first symptom of general infection, such treatment must of necessity he useless to prevent the evolution of the disease. The question of excision will be again mentioned under the head of the treatment of chancre. Sources of Syphilitic Contagion.—Up to within a comparatively recent period, it was believed that the chancre was the only contagious lesion of syphilis, and the only means whereby the disease could be spread from one individual to another. This theory was strongly supported by Ricord for many years, but this truly scientific syphilographer at last saw his error,mnd, recanting, uttered in a new edition of his “Letters” the expres- sion of his change of belief.1 We now know that the generalized lesions of syphilis are among the commonest sources of contagion, and it is no longer the custom, as it was at one time, to charge any individual presenting syphilis, no matter what his or her personal character and antecedents, with having indulged in illicit sexual intercourse. Among the generalized manifestations of syphilis those which are suppurative in character are most apt to convey the contagion. Mucous 'papules and patches are most commonly the source of infection, and after these in point of contagiousness are the pustular syphilo- dermata—ecthymatiform, acneiform, and rupial. The late lesions are not con- sidered contagious, although no direct inoculation-experiments have been practised with these. The blood of persons in the full course of syphilis is certainly infective,2 but at a later period its contagious quality gradually declines, and is finally entirely lost. The contagiousness of the normal secretions of the body—saliva, sweat, tears, milk, semen—has been examined into by various experimenters, with negative results, and I think we may say positively, that, as far as our present knowl- edge goes, none of these secretions act as the carriers of the syphilitic con- tagion. Modes of Contagion.—(1) Immediate.—The most frequent mode of syph- ilitic contagion is from the genital organs in sexual congress. Some abrasion of the skin is almost always if not invariably required in order to procure the entry of the virus into the system ; this, however, as is known, is not uncom- 1 “ L’liomme absurde est celui qui ne change jamais,” said Ricord. 1 The contagious character of syphilitic blood has been ascertained by direct inoculation upon persons free from syphilitic disease. The fact is now universally admitted, so that it is not necessary to make any direct reference to the original investigations. Important as is the knowledge of this contagiousness of syphilitic blood, the manner in which it was gained, that is, by inoculating in some cases innocent and unsuspecting individuals, was unjustifiable and infamous.