354 GONORRHfEA. contraction of those muscles to produce entire evacuation of the contents of the passage, “which would otherwise leave itguttatim.” The latter portion of this act is accomplished by the contraction of the circular muscular fibres which surround the urethra, and which, during the intervals of urination, in a healthy condition, serve to bring and retain its walls in close apposition. The submucous deposit which increases the friction of the stream of urine at any point, also interferes with the accurate closure of the canal by those muscles whose action is impeded, and whose structure itself is in part often invaded, and as a consequence we have imperfect emptying of the urethra at the end of urination. Finally if, in addition, we recall the intimate nervous con- nection of the urethra with all the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, and with the walls of those cavities, and the mutual relation which exists between them, tapeworm having been known to cause all the symptoms of stricture, and stricture of very moderate degree having, as in a case I have recently seen with Dr. "Wm. Pepper, produced intestinal irritation with dysenteric symptoms, we are in a position to sum up the relation of the pathological and subjective phenomena as follows :— The increased friction and resistance resulting from even a slight fibrous peri-urethral deposit, disturb the normal relations of the bladder, and, by rendering it irritable, bring on one of the common symptoms of stricture, fre- quent micturition.1 The imperfect closure of the tube, the muscular action of which at the point of deposit is materially interfered with, causes the equally imperfect expulsion of the last drops of urine, and produces another characteristic symptom, dribbling at the end of micturition. The retention and decomposition of these last drops, together with the abnormal friction between the stream of urine and the urethral walls, give rise to a subacute inflammation of the mucous membrane, accompanied with a catarrhal or muco-purulent discharge, constituting the condition of gleet; by reflex irrita- tion transmitted from the area of inflammation, pains in remote organs and situations are developed, notably in the lumbar and hypogastric regions.2 This relation of causes and effects has been in the main accepted as correct by the profession for many years. Probably no one denies that in certain strictures in which the urethral calibre is markedly diminished, the connec- 1 That the same condition of irritable bladder may be produced in the female from a similar cause, is shown in the following case reported by Dr. Matthews Duncan (Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 16, 1878). “A woman came to us suffering from irritable bladder. She had to make her water frequently, sometimes every few minutes. It was not a case of hours, hut of minutes, and she could not get good sleep. On examining this woman we found that there was no orifice of the urethra in the natural situation. She had no history of syphilis, of operation, or of injury ; yet there was no orifice in the situation of the urethra. A little to the right side of the natural position of this orifice was a very slight redness. A little surgical probe pressed against this redness entered the bladder. The orifice of the urethra, then, was strictured. On examin- ing the woman’s bladder, we found it not expanded. It was a large bladder, but not larger than you frequently see in healthy women ; but we found the urethra expanded. The bladder- cavity did not begin at the internal orifice of the urethra, but its expansion began at the ex- ternal orifice. There was no urethral canal. The bladder was not inflamed in any degree ; it was soft, not tender, and large, though not unnaturally large. Now, here is a very plain case. A little operation was performed with a bistoury, enlarging the external orifice of the urethra, so that a number 15, 16, and then 18, were passed into the bladder. Within two days the canal of the urethra had re-formed itself; and from the moment of the operation the woman was cured. She slept that night, she had no irritability of the bladder at all, and made no complaint. She remains cured.” Dr. Mastin, of Mobile, who has made the interesting observation that cases of constricted meatus are excessively common among the Jews, a result as he believes of early circumcision, has found also that the evils associated with this condition are chronic urethral discharges, irri- table urethra, spasmodic stricture, frequent micturition, etc. The average size of the meatus in his cases was something below twelve millimetres. 2 Van Buren and Keyes record (op. cit., p. 76) a curious case in which a stricture, calibre 13, 3^ inches from the meatus, gave rise to distinct soreness of the mammae. This was unaccompanied by structural change, and disappeared when the stricture was dilated.