504 SYPHILIS. healing leave more or less pigmented cicatrices. The course of the eruption is variable, depending upon the condition of the patient’s general health. The bullous syphiloderm is a late eruption, and usually occurs in connection with other syphilitic manifestations. It is rare, and is met with in cachectic, broken-down subjects. It often occurs as the result of hereditary syphilis in the new-born, when it closely resembles pemphigus vulgaris.1 The charac- ter of the blebs, and of the subsequent crusts, will, however, easily serve to distinguish this syphiloderm from pemphigus. The Pigmentary Syphiloderm. This eruption, the existence of which has been denied by some observers, is very rare. It has been described (with a chromo-lithographic illustration) in the second edition of Fournier’s “Leyons sur la Syphilis,” and in this country by G. H. Fox2 and by J. E. Atkinson.3 It consists in a more or less circumscribed pigmentation of the skin, in the form of roundish, ovalish, or irregularly shaped, split-pea or iinger-nail sized, discrete or confluent macules, on a level with the skin. They are not preceded by liypersemia, nor do they follow upon the site of other syphilitic lesions. Their color is a pale, yellow- ish-brown, often so faint as to cause them to present rather the appearance of dirt marks than of lesions in the skin. They are apt to coalesce and form a sort of net-work. There are no subjective symptoms. The affection occurs in the latter half of the first and in the second year of syphilis. Its course is slow, and it is uninfluenced by specific treatment. Local Treatment of the Syphilodermata. The general and internal treatment of the syphilodermata is that of syphilis in general, and for this reference may be made to the section on treatment. The local management of these lesions demands, however, some special notice here. The erythematous syphiloderm does not require local treatment, nor will this, unless in the form of the mercurial vapor-bath, be apt to do much ser- vice. The papular syphiloderm likewise does not often require the aid of local applications, excepting when the surface of the lesions is denuded, as in the moist papule, or where they occupy a conspicuous position, as on the face. For the moist papules occurring about the anus or genitalia, especially when accompanied by vegetations, extreme cleanliness, separation of the adjoining parts with dry lint or cloths, and thorough washing with dilute solution of chlorinated soda, may be employed. In connection with these measures, the moist surface of the lesions may be dressed with finely powdered calomel, or anointed with the following ointment R Pulv. hydrarg. chlor. mit. 3SS- Ung. aquae rosae, gj. M. The same ointment, well rubbed in, hastens the disappearance of papular lesions on the face. Great relief may be obtained in the case of pustular eruptions by the early 1 See under hereditary infantile syphilis. 2 Am. Jour. Med. Sci., April, 1876. 3 The Pigmentary Syphiloderm, a paper read before the American Dermatological Association, at its second annual meeting, 1879, and published in the Chicago Med. Jour, and Exam., Oct. 1879.