194 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. and. consequent peritonitis. The much more rarely observed wounds of the spleen are at times recovered from, but are usually followed by mortal hemorrhage. As in the case of the liver, protrusion of a part of the viscus does not necessarily prevent a favorable termination. Though it is true that the existence of a wound of the pancreas can generally be ascertained only upon autopsy, and though such a lesion must usually be associated with other very serious if not mortal injuries, yet, if hernia should take place, it need not necessarily add materially to the gravity of the prognosis, since the protruding part of the pancreas may he successfully removed, as was once done during our late war. Kidney lesions, which are often associated with injury of the spine, or of some other of the solid or hollow viscera, though rarely followed by intra- Fig. 282. Fig. 283. Pancreas with conoidal musket ball embedded. Gunshot perforation of kidney. (A. M. M., (A. M. M., Spec. 2884.) Spec. 1773.) peritoneal extravasation of urine, yet generally cause death, from shock, from hemorrhage, or from extra-peritoneal abscess. Recovery however may take place. A number of non-fatal cases have been reported, but in a con- siderable proportion of them there is more or less reason for doubting the correctness of the diagnosis. In a Crimean case, observed by Legouest, in which the bullet had passed through the middle of the kidney from before backwards, it was found upon making an autopsy that “ the organ was much diminished in size, and presented in the centre of each surface a firm, fibrous, depressed cicatrix, to which there were attached like the rays of a star five other irregular cicatrices.” Treatment of Gunshot Wounds op Abdomen.—The treatment of non- penetrating abdominal injuries must be conducted on general principles: foreign bodies are to be removed, when it is practicable to do so; hemor- rhage is to be arrested—by ligation, if the bleeding is from one of the larger vessels; collections of blood, if not duly absorbed, are to be freely laid open, to prevent the formation of abscesses with resulting danger to the peritoneum, either from extension of inflammation by contiguity, or, what however rarely occurs, by the discharge of pus into the cavity; extreme quietude is to be maintained ; and a strict diet enjoined. If the kidney has been wounded, free drainage must be secured, and any external collections of urine or pus which result, must he early and thoroughly evacuated. By the judicious administration of opium, by cold applications, and by bandage compression, peritonitis may be prevented or largely controlled.