THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. 66 particles were destructible by beat and chemical agencies, a possibility of preventing fermentations in the discharges of wounds was opened up, and it was this idea which Professor Lister seized on, and the development of which has led to such fruitful results. A vast number of observations and experi- ments had shown that there was a very intimate relationship between fermen- tations in wounds and the constitutional disturbances so apt to follow them, a relation to some extent of cause and effect, and it was quite clear that if the occurrence of these changes could be prevented, a vast advance would be made towards the abolition of the so-called septic diseases. Mr. Lister’s aim has all along been to destroy the fermenting power of these particles before they reach the wound, and thus at once place the patient out of danger from any of the consequences which are supposed to be connected with a putrid or fermenting state of the discharges. Principles of the Antiseptic Method. While for the practice of the Listerian method it is only necessary to know that the causes of fermentation are jmrticles, which reach the fermentescible substance from the outer world, and that these particles are destructible by various chemical means, yet it is of importance to ascertain more definitely what is the nature of these particles, and this knowledge will be found to open up a wider meaning of the term antiseptic surgery than is generally understood. It has been known for several years that in all fermenting fluids low forms of vegetable life are present, forms which are included in a class termed Sehizomycetes, or more popularly known as Bacteria. It has also been amply demonstrated that these micro-organisms do not arise de novo in these materials, but that they are always derived from a parent. It has further been shown that they enter fluids and tissues from the outer world, being present as particles in suspension, in air, water, etc., or being deposited as dust on surrounding objects. It is also evident that as these bodies are living, they must acquire materials for their growth from the substances in which they grow; they must breathe, take in food to build up and renew their proto- plasm, and excrete waste products. It thus follows that the material which serves them for food must undergo a change as the result of their growth; and, since the result of the growth of individual cells in the complex animal organism is the formation from the blood of certain definite substances, there is nothing unreasonable in supposing that the result of the growth of cells floating free in a fluid, will he the formation of certain definite substances, varying according to the nature and function of the cell. In other words, the chemical substances forming the pabulum of these vegetable cells will, undergo a constant and definite series of changes, which we know by the name of Fermentation. As wre have already seen, fermentation is due to the entrance into the fer- mentescible material of particles from the outer world. The origin of micro- organisms in similar substances is also due to the access of particles from the outer world. Micro-organisms are alwrays present in fermenting fluids. Micro- organisms must produce a change wdiich comes within the definition of “ Fer- mentation,” as the result of their growth in these materials. The precautions which exclude micro-organisms from organic substances also exclude the par- ticles wLich cause fermentation. Where one set of particles is admitted, the other also enters; one cannot get fermentation without the presence of micro- organisms, nor the presence of micro-organisms without fermentation. The fermentations of which we speak are not instances of chemical decompo- sition ; they do not correspond to the change produced by ptyalin, pepsin,