264 ABSCESSES. none in which the incautious practitioner has been more often led into serious and embarrassing mistakes. It is true that the characters of acute abscess are usually unequivocal, though even here error has not always been escaped. But it is in the case of subacute or chronic abscesses that diagnosis has most often been at fault. Setting aside such mistakes as care and common know- ledge should teach us to avoid, it may he useful to review the causes which may render diagnosis difficult. The symptoms of abscess in a typical case are (1) those of local inflamma- tion—-vascular disturbance, swelling, redness, heat, pain, tenderness; (2) those which denote that inflammation lias resulted in suppuration—fluctuation, pointing, oedema, and others referred to above. In many abscesses, however, not only are these symptoms, with the exception of swelling, entirely absent, but they are replaced by others apparently suggestive of some other and altogether different affection. Thus if an abscess, holding two or three ounces of pus, have slowly formed, whether from the patient’s broken health, or, for instance, in connection with obsolete spinal or joint disease, it may be completely free from heat, pain, and tenderness. As time goes on—and such an abscess may remain almost unchanged for many months, or even sometimes for years—the limiting (pyo- genic) membrane grows tough and firm, and when, as pus gradually accumu- lates, the sac becomes full and tense, a circumscribed, rounded or oval, and more or less movable, swelling is produced, in which, if it rests on soft and yielding structures, and is covered by a thick layer of subcutaneous fat, no fluctuation can be detected. Here the likeness to a fatty or Jibro-cellular tumor is so complete that the real nature of the swelling can only be determined by an exploratory puncture. Again: a large, slowly-increasing swelling is found in some such situation as the temporal fossa, the adductor region of the thigh, or deep in the muscles of the calf. It is diffused, and firm or obscurely elastic, without perceptible fluctuation, with no heat, pain, or tenderness, and is covered with skin that is smooth, tense, faintly dusky, and marked with distended veins. These symptoms may well give rise to a strong suspicion that malignant disease is present. Under such circumstances many have fallen into serious errors, of which the following may be related as examples:— A gentleman, finding a swelling deep in his groin, showed it to his medical attend- ant, who was doubtful of its character, and wished for a consultation. This took place, and the opinion was formed that the disease was malignant, and likely to pass on to a rapidly fatal end. As a few weeks’ observation seemed to confirm this prospect, the patient accepted the verdict, and prepared for the result. He disposed of the lucrative business in which he was engaged, funded his capital, appointed executors, and with- drew into the country. Scarcely were all these arrangements completed when an abscess pointed in the groin. This soon burst and discharged about fifteen ounces of pus. He now regained his health and strength. His business, however, much to his chagrin, had passed beyond reach into other hands. Many years since, a mammary gland was amputated at one of the large London hospitals under the belief that it was the seat of carcinoma. When the breast was subsequently examined, it was found to contain, not a scirrhous tumor, but a thick- walled chronic abscess. In a case known to the writer, a child was pronounced, by a high authority in sur- gery, to have malignant disease in the temporal region ; but the event proved the case to be one of abscess deeply seated beneath the temporal aponeurosis. 'In the surgery of childhood, the writer has also on several occasions seen deep-seated abscesses about the shoulder, in the thigh, the abdominal wall, and the cellular tissue of the pelvis, mistaken for malignant disease. Con- versely, malignant disease may sometimes very closely resemble chronic ab- scess.