639 LYMPH ANGEIOMA. face, by cutting across them freely and repeatedly with a knife or cataract- needle, and by applying to the bleeding points a solution of perchloride of iron, or of nitrate of silver in water, equal parts. This process is not uniformly successful. For the dilated vessels, as well as for the circumscribed and mi- nute nodular forms of the disease, the operation of electrolysis is perhaps the best. A line needle connected with the negative pole is to be inserted into the channels of the vessels, and a current of ten or fifteen cells employed, a sponge electrode connected with the other pole being applied to the skin near by. (See application of electrolysis in hirsuties, page 627-) The needle is then to be inserted at other points until the whole vascular structure has been destroyed. The application of nitrate of silver or nitric acid to the central nodule often fails to destroy the halo of vessels radiating from it. Small and flat n?evi may be treated in the same manner as teleangiectases, but attempts to destroy extensive growths of this kind by scarification, as recommended by Squire for port-wine marks, will not often prove successful. Electrolysis and the galvano-eautery are the most reliable methods to employ. For the deep-seated forms, various means of cure have been practised. Compression, ligation of afferent vessels, injections of styptic solutions are of no avail, and the latter method is dangerous. The galvano-eautery repeatedly applied to one part after another, by means of platinum wire, is often successful. If the action is too intense, sloughing of the tissues and possibly hemorrhage may ensue. Only a small portion of the tumor should be acted upon at one time. Vaccination, performed at several points over the growth, may effect a cure by causing progressive sloughing of the vascular tissue. Small nsevi may be destroyed by strong nitric acid, or by caustic potassa; strangulation by ligatures may sometimes be used with advantage, when these can be ap- plied about the base of small tumors ; or the thread may be passed beneath the growth, and tied so as to compress the tumor in several parts. In such cases it may be well, after the separation of the strangulated part, to cauterize the exposed base of the nsevus so as to prevent its return. Direct excision, too, may be resorted to, care being taken that an abundance of the surrounding skin is included, so as to prevent peripheral return of the growth. The edges of the wound are to be united by sutures. Spontaneous cure is occasionally effected in infancy, by progressive sloughing or ulceration arising of its own accord. Cavernous tumors may be readily excised, being easily enucleated with their fibrous capsules. Operations for mevus in infancy may be delayed, because spon- taneous involution is possible. Operation at any period of life is only de- manded when the growth takes on rapid development; under other circum- stances, it may safely be left untreated. Lymphangeioma. The lymphatics may also undergo enlargement and new growth within the tissues of the skin, and may form multiple tumors of small size, projecting above the surface in the form of oval or semi-globular, flattened papules and tuber- cles. They are of a dull-red color, smooth and firm, and look, according to Kaposi, who first described this affection, like a papular syphiloderm. The disease in his case appeared in childhood and continued through life. The structure consists of canals and openings, which are enormously enlarged lymphatics. Much larger lymph tumors of cavernous structures may be formed in the subcutaneous tissues and glands, whence they project them- selves into the skin.