351 CHRONIC URETHRAL DISCHARGES. Acute Inflammatory Urethritis. Often subsides permanently with much rapidity. Usual sequel: chronic gon- orrhoea, depending on a patch of granular urethri- tis. Catarrhal Urethritis. Apt to be followed by a drop of gleety discharge in the mornings. Usual sequel: gleet, depend- ing on a submucous de- posit of fibrous tissue. Irritative Urethritis. Lasts only a few days. No sequelae. Chronic Urethral Discharges. We have thus far been occupied with the acute affections of the urethra; but as a direct continuation or prolongation of these, or as more or less remote sequelae, a number of chronic urethral discharges are met with. These may for convenience be divided into three classes: those due to a urethral catarrh, a condition often left after the subsidence of an acute urethritis; those de- pendent upon a chronic gonorrhoea, the inflammation having localized itself in some portion of the urethra, producing a granular or even superficially ulcer- ated surface; and those commonly known as gleety, which in almost every instance will be found associated with urethral coarctations, often of the sort known as “ strictures of large calibre.” Nearly all chronic discharges arising from the urethra proper will be found to fall under one or the other of these heads, and as it is a matter of much therapeutic importance to be able to distinguish them, their chief diagnostic points may be briefly considered. Of course, it is understood that prostatic, vesical, and other discharges which may at times appear at the meatus, are not here referred to. Urethral Catarrh.—After many cases of gonorrhoea, for some time after the disappearance of the last drops of muco-purulent discharge, there will still be found a condition of excessive secretion, or of increased “ urethral moisture,” which will often be a source of unnecessary anxiety to the patient and the surgeon. The symptoms associated with this mucous catarrh vary from a mere feeling of wetness about the meatus, to the possible production, by “stripping” the urethra, of a drop or two of clear, albuminoid liquid, slightly tenacious, and resembling that resulting from a prostatorrhcea, with which, indeed, it is often associated. There is no gluing together of the meatus, and no pain or other subjective symptom, except the one alluded to—a sensation of dampness at the very extremity of the penis. This is often so marked as to lead the patient to frequent useless examinations of the organ, or to induce the belief that a free discharge exists, but is absorbed by the dressings or by the underclothing. Treatment of any sort, as a rule, serves only to aggra- vate or at least to perpetuate this condition, which, in nineteen cases out of twenty, will subside spontaneously in a few days or weeks. If, however, on the supposition that the urethritis is still active, or that he is dealing with a gleet, the surgeon continue treatment, changing from injection to injection, and employing the different anti-blennorrhagics. this state of affairs may be indefinitely prolonged. For this reason, if for no other, the statements of patients as to urethral troubles should always be revised by a careful inspec- tion at each visit on the part of the surgeon himself. Chronic Gonorrhoea.—In other cases, after all marked symptoms have van- ished, there will yet remain a milky—or rather, creamy—drop, which can be pressed out of the meatus whenever a few hours have elapsed after urination.