488 SYPHILIS. the arm to a greater or less degree,1 and extension becomes impossible, although further flexure may be performed in some cases, while in others complete ankylosis exists. No lesion or alteration can be pei'ceived in the size, shape, or appearance of the tissues involved. The tendon of the biceps, the muscle involved, is tense and hard as iron. Forcible extension has been made in some cases. This causes much pain and does no good, the muscle gradually contracting again as soon as the force is removed, until the forearm assumes its former position of flexion. While the biceps braehii is the muscle usually implicated, the flexors of the leg may be involved, or the muscles of the jaw may contract, and give rise to a condition of “lock-jaw;” those of the neck may give rise by their contrac- tion to a sort of torticollis; strabismus may be caused by contraction of the muscles of the eyeball; and lumbago, with incurvation of the trunk, by involvement of the sacro-lumbar muscles. Writers2 have even described constrictions of the trachea, oesophagus, and rectum, as well as asthma, as the result of syphilitic involvement of the various muscles concerned; but these observations have as yet lacked confirmation, although there is nothing in- trinsically improbable in the occurrence of these affections under such cir- cumstances. Syphilitic contraction of the muscles is commonly rather a late affection,3 but it may occur simultaneously with the earlier manifestations of syphilis. The duration of syphilitic muscular contraction depends entirely upon its treatment. Under the employment of specific remedies it disappears some- times with great rapidity, at other times more slowly. Influence of the General Syphilitic Condition upon Intercurrent Affections.—It is generally believed that the various internal affections with which the patient may chance to be affected while the syphilitic disease is active in his constitution, are more or less influenced thereby. Exact observa- tions bearing upon this point are, however, wanting. Regarding the influence of syphilitic disease on traumatic affections, our knowledge is more exact, and this point will be found treated of in another part of the present work.4 (See Yol. I. p. 819.) The Syphilodermata. The syphilitic eruptions of the skin are characterized by certain peculiari- ties which they possess in common, and which serve to differentiate them from other skin affections. These are as follows: 1. Polymorphism; 2. Pecu- liar color; 3. Rounded form; 4. A pyretic, indolent, apruriginous character; 5. Amenability to the curative influence of mercury. Polymorphism is the peculiar feature of the early syphilitic skin affections. They are often made up of various eruptive lesions: an erythematous syphi- loderm may occur in connection with groups of papular lesions,5 6 and papulo- squamous eruptions may show mingled pustules or crusted lesions. Occa- sionally a patient will show, on careful examination, macules, dry and moist 1 In three cases which came under my observation (Three Cases of Syphilitic Muscular Con- traction, Am. Jour. Med. Soc., 1879), the arm was flexed at the angle of 165°, 150°, and 135° in each case respectively. 2 Bouisson, Tumeurs Syphilitiques des Muscles (Annales de Cazenave, t. iii. p. 52, 1850), and Davasse. 3 In one of my cases the contraction manifested itself in the seventh month ; in the other two, between the twelfth and the fourteenth months of the disease. 4 Jullien, op. cit., p. 670, goes into the subject with some fulness, and adds references to a number of recent articles bearing upon the matter under consideration. 6 See illustration of Infantile Syphilis, PI. XIV., Fig. 1-