POISONED WOUNDS. 88 formed by a most careful physician, of high standing, and the child’s parents were people of the best class ; so that it was difficult to account for the origin of the poison, which proved fatal. It will be sufficient merely to mention here the liability of surgeons to syphilitic infection, from absorption of the discharge from sores of that cha- racter, in the course of their professional duties. Fortunately this is rare. It has been stated on a previous page that poisoning is more apt to occur from bodies recently dead (that is, in which the post-mortem changes are in their early stage), than in those which are already putrid. Yet animal sub- stances in the latter state may be productive of injury in the same way. Thus Heath1 speaks of the digital cellulitis known as whitlow, as sometimes caused in cooks and others by the handling of game which is “ high.” And a notice recently appeared2 of the poisoning of the Medical Officer for Health for Rother- hithe, near London, by a wound of the hand received in making a micro- scopic examination of some pork. It is said that “ the meat was so putrid that lie was compelled to use disinfectants, which obscured the minute struc- tures ; but he satisfied himself that the animals had been the subjects of, if they had not died of, pig-typhus; and he believes also that they were trichi- nised.” The report goes on to say that he had “ narrowly escaped permanent maiming.” Treatment of Dissection-Wounds.—The treatment of all these cases must be: to subdue the local inflammations, and to support the strength. Wherever there is heat and swelling, with pain, either at the part injured or at points nearer the body, hot fomentations, hot poultices, hot lead-water and laudanum, and like dressings, will be found to give comfort. It should be mentioned that any wound received, or any puncture or cut becoming irri- tated, during a dissection or operation, ought to be at once washed clean, thoroughly sucked, and protected. I have myself great faith in thorough cauterization with nitrate of silver, or with a white-hot needle, if done at once. The best protective application afterwards is a strip of clean rag or lint thickly spread with any simple unguent, as cosmoline, carbolized cerate, or mutton- tallow. A clean cut may be closed with a strip of plaster, which should how- ever be at once removed if pain or swelling come on. As soon as suppuration occurs, the part should be freely laid open, and poultices applied. Should the inflammation extend up the arm, it has been recommended to place a cordon sanitaire around the member, by painting it with tincture of iodine or with a very strong solution of nitrate of silver. Either of these may be used, a band about an inch wide, encircling the limb, being applied above the higher limit of the area of inflammation. This sometimes seems to be of benefit in arresting the disorder, just as in erysipe- las ; but it cannot be relied on. Blistering has been used in the same way, and is recommended by Agnew.3 Tonics, such as iron, quinine, the mineral acids, and concentrated food, should be given from the very first, in as large doses as the stomach will bear. Carbonate of ammonium is a valuable adjunct in combating prostra- tion. Stimulants are often imperatively called for, given either separately or along with the food. Dry champagne is well borne, and has the advantage of allaying the gastric irritability which is often a marked feature of these cases. When the fever runs very high, the ordinary febrifuges may be em- ployed, and sponging with hot whiskey or bay rum and water. Anodynes 1 Medical Times and Gazette, June 18, 1881. * Ibid., Aug. 31, 1881. 3 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 212.