400 GONORRIKEA. ually on the inflamed region, or to paint the entire vulva with a forty-grain solution of nitrate of silver. This last expedient may be adopted earlier, and rarely fails to produce a good effect. When the burning and throbbing are very great, and particularly if there is some constitutional disturbance, the abstraction of blood by leeches placed along the lines of the groins, and on the perineum, is clearly indicated. The diet during this period should be restricted, consisting chiefly of milk and farinaceous articles. When it becomes apparent that, a vulvo-vaginal gland is involved, timely local bleeding may arrest the inflammation, but if it fail to do so-, suppura- tion may be hastened by warm fomentations, cloths wrung out of hot water and laid over the affected labium being preferable to poultices. Some diffe- rence of opinion exists as to the best locality for evacuating the abscess if it fails to empty itself through the duct, but I have never seen any ill effects from making the incision on the inner and lower aspect of the swelling, and believe that it is possible to obtain the best drainage in that manner. It is asserted that the contact of the urine and other discharges with the wound at that point is objectionable, but this has not been so in my cases, and I have never taken any precaution to make the cut “ valvular,” or otherwise to protect it. In chronic, frequently recurring abscesses of this region, instead of dissecting out the capsule of the gland, as has been recommended, or of putting in a seton, I have always found it sufficient to lay open the cavity by a free incision, and to pack the wound with lint greased with carbolized oil. In some eight or nine cases thus treated, granulation has taken place from the bottom of the wound, and no recurrence of the abscess has followed.1 When superficial ulceration of the vulva results from vulvitis, and particu- larly when the ulcers are irritable and painful, iodoform often produces the happiest effect, reducing pain and at the same time stimulating the sores to healthy reparative action. In private practice, and with women who are delicate or sensitive about themselves, the odor of iodoform is often a serious objection to its employment. This odor cannot be altogether overcome, but the following formula has in my experience been the most satisfactory in that respect, the pungent, penetrating character of the smell being certainly agree- ably modified. R.—Iodoformi, 3j- 01. ylang-ylang, 01. rosas, 01. anisi, aa rt^v. Unguent, aquae ros. §ss M. Treatment of Vaginitis.—Vaginitis requires the same general manage- ment as vulvitis—rest in bed, elevated buttocks, restricted diet, and attention to cleanliness being all valuable adjuvants to treatment. The confinement to bed is hardly so imperatively necessary as when the vulva is the seat of the disease, and motion does not through friction, or in any other way, so greatly aggravate the symptoms. The patient should, therefore, be par- ticularly cautioned against undue exercise, and also against indulgence in sexual intercourse. In markedly inflammatory cases this will not be neces- sary, as the pain induced by attempts at intromission will be a sufficient preventive. In cases of acute vaginitis, with profuse purulent discharge, tumefaction of the mucous membrane, etc., the routine treatment should be as follows:— 1 Dr. Matthews Duncan treats cases of vulvo-vaginal abscess by dilating the duct of the gland with a large probe, and injecting the abscess cavity with a twenty-grain solution of nitrate of silver by means of a lachrymal syringe (Medical Times and Gazette, February 21, 1880). In the % Lancet, for March 3, 1877, lie reported a case of persistent inflammation cured in this manner.