706 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAS. of the hyoid bone; another exists between the middle tendon of the omo- hyoid and the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscles; another over the angle of the thyroid cartilage (pre-thyroid); and another between the layers of the middle thyro-hyoid ligament, or between the ligament and the adjacent surface of the hyoid bone (infra-thyroid)—this bursa may be double. Bursal spaces may be found anywhere from above, and even behind, the hyoid bone, to the cricoid cartilage, and are usually strictly median; but they are some- times double, and, under such circumstances, are placed close on either side of the median line, or even several lines from it. Another bursa exists be- tween the genio-glossi muscles (supra-thyroid), an accidental one1 between the greater cornu of the thyroid cartilage and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and a large one between the trachea and aorta, usually extending from the origin of the innominate artery to that of the left carotid, and reaching from the upper border of the aortic arch to the bifurcation of the trachea. Some- times a second one is placed posteriorly to this bursa, or a small one is found between the left carotid and the trachea, while the usual large one is located more to the right. Calori2 calls these burste aortico-tracheal, and says that he found one or all present in thirteen out of forty dissections. When, as is some- times the case, the pericardium is prolonged upwards and to the left behind the aortic arch, the aortico-tracheal bursa is small. Calori also figures a second bursa, more commonly found than the former, placed beneath the isthmus of the thyroid gland, to the upper margin of which it sometimes extendsthis he calls thyro-tracheal. It is usually single, but if the thyroid isthmus be incomplete, there may be two bursae, placed one on each side of the median line. This bursa is most commonly present when the pyramid of the thyroid is well developed, and especially if it is attached to the hyoid bone. When the musculus throideus of Soemmering—the elevator of the thyroid gland of Gr. F. Meckel—is present, a small bursa may be interposed between it and the thyroid cartilage. Calori figures one such in a case of goitre. This author also describes two small bursae, placed one on each side between the crico-thyroid muscles and the lateral thyroid lobes, which he calls crico-thyro-thyroidean. They sometimes extend forwards so as to be partially interposed between the trachea and the thyroid gland. They are sometimes multiple, Calori having found in one case three sacs to the right and two to the left of the median line. A bursa is commonly found over the vertebra prominens. Ante-thyroid Bursae.—According to Hamilton,3 all varieties of bursal tumor which occur in the laryngeal region are more common in females than in males. Elsberg’s^dissections,4 however, have shown that the bursae them- selves are of more frequent occurrence in male subjects. He explains the apparent preponderance of diseases of these bursae in females by stating that women often consult a surgeon for the removal of such tumors for the cos- metic effect, to which men are generally indifferent. The bulk of these ante- thyroid hygromas varies from that of a hen’s egg to that of a small orange. They are subcutaneous, smooth, thin-walled, and elastic, are firmly attached to the larynx, and usually contain a thin yellowish serum. Almost invariably situated exactly in the median line, their site varies from a point just above the thyroid to one over the cricoid cartilage. They may temporarily disap- pear, to again recur, or, in very rare instances, the tumor may never refill. An occasional termination, as with the other two varieties, is spontaneous rupture into the larynx. These tumors are always of slow growth, and their 1 W. Gruber, Arcliiv f. Anat. Physiol, u. wissensch. Med. Leipsig, 1875, S. 590. 1 Mem. della Accad. di Bologna, seria terza, tom. v. 1874, p. 335. * Med. Record, Feb. 1, 1875, p. 545. Hamilton calls them Super-laryngeal tumors. * Ibid.