WOUNDS. 14 Constitutional Effects.—The constitutional phenomena associated with these local changes, vary greatly. In some subjects, a trivial, local injury, a mere cut, may give rise to severe shock, or to a disturbance of the nervous system which expresses itself in convulsions; whereas in another, a severe and extensive wound may be followed by few if any constitutional symptoms. Shock. — The gradations of shock and collapse are innumerable, and the symptoms by which they are characterized vary from a passing faintness or disturbance of the heart’s action, to fatal syncope. The state of collapse may be regarded as a chronic syncope. Patients may unquestionably die from shock following slight injuries or minor operations, though no satisfactory cause for death may subsequently he discovered, the heart’s action in these cases being suddenly stopped through some central nervous influence. The degree of shock that attends an accident or operation depends as a rule, how- ever, upon the importance of the injured organ in the animal economy, the extent and nature of the violence which the tissues have sustained, the size of the bloodvessels which have been involved, and the amount of blood which has been lost. A patient, in good general health, will bear a severe wound or operation with little shock, while another with diseased viscera, and more particularly with diseased kidneys, will be subjected to severe shock from even a trivial injury. The age and constitutional condition of the patient have an im- portant influence under all circumstances. .Reaction.—When what has been described as the period of “shock” after an accidental or operative wound, has passed away, the stage of “reaction” is reached, and in a general sense it may be assumed that the intensity of this stage is fairly governed by the intensity of that which preceded it. That is to say, where there lias been little shock, there will be but feeble reaction; and where the shock has been severe or prolonged, the stage of reaction will be of a like type. Still this rule has innumerable exceptions, and these ex- ceptions seem to depend more on the individual peculiarities of the patient than upon anything else: one person, after a slight injury or operation, ex- periences little shock, but sharp reaction; while another, suffering from a severe injury or operation, will have a prolonged stage of shock, followed by no more reaction than seems to be necessary to restore the circulation to its normal condition, and to allow the functions of the body to work efficiently. Children and women, and the subjects of neurotic tendencies, always react rapidly and in a marked way from all kinds of shock, whether mental or physical, but at the same time these subjects, as a rule, do well. The rigors, nervous tremblings, and fears, which are often met with in nervous subjects after operations, and which often cause alarm, are but rarely followed by any bad results. The symptoms of reaction, in their mildest expression, are simply those of the restoration of the nervous and circulatory functions to their normal con- dition—the heart, with the circulation generally, so rallying from the depressed condition into which it has been thrown by the “shock” of the accident or operation, as to come up to the usual standard of health; and the nervous system so recovering from the temporary state of depression, if not of unconsciousness, into wdiich it has been cast, as to resume its normal power of governing and controlling the actions of the body over which it presides. The reparative process consequently, under these circumstances, may be expected to go on uninterruptedly to a successful issue; the wound will undergo repair, and heal, and the subject of the wound will suffer little or no constitutional evil beyond that occasioned directly by the injury. The