359 NEURALGIA EROM URETHRAL IRRITATION. as they sometimes do, into a condition of true sexual hypochondriasis. They should be told that their symptoms are compatible with a high degree of physical health, and are the natural result of certain agencies which can easily be explained to them. If, in spite of this, or in consequence of a mistake as to the meaning of these appearances, the patient does become hypochondriac, it may be necessary, while assuring him of the harmless nature of his symp- toms, to administer some anaphrodisiac, preferably bromide of potassium, in doses sufficient to diminish the tendency to erection, and then gradually to withdraw it as previous habits are resumed. Urethral Anaesthesia. The reverse of this condition is sometimes met with ; that is, in place of ure- thral hypenesthesia with frequent emissions, there is anaesthesia with an ab- sence of sexual pleasure, and a slowness or infrequency of ejaculation even under conditions of natural gratification. This may be associated with noc- turnal emissions. I have now under my care a patient, who has been seen by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, and who, after several attacks of gonorrhoea, devel- oped this condition. lie is in no sense impotent, having firm, complete erec- tions, and the genital organs are, to all appearances, normal. He is troubled with nocturnal emissions, two or three weekly, which are unattended with pleasure, or, indeed, with sensation of any kind. On attempting connection, he finds that it is only by vigorous and very persistent efforts that he is able to cause ejaculation, which, although normal as regards the quantity and character of the sperm, is barely perceptible to him, and is not followed by subsidence of the erection except after a long interval. He has no trace of stricture or other urethral trouble. ■ It has been suggested that this condition is due to an inflammatory change in the nerves supplying the prostatic urethra, as a result of which they have become insensitive, and that the nocturnal emissions are simply an overflow of accumulated genital fluids.1 Neuralgia from Urethral Irritation. In still another class of cases, great sensitiveness along the course of the urethra persists, and may be associated with reflex neuralgic pains. In this condition of hypersesthesia the urethra is sensitive to the touch, the use of instruments causes great suffering, and erections and emissions are painful. The neuralgias affect chiefly the sciatic and crural nerves, and are even more rare than the previous condition. Hemiplegia, ataxia, paraplegia, and other neuroses have been enumerated among the sequelae of urethritis, but their connection seems to me more than doubtful. I have never seen any instance of such severe trouble, and the reported cases do not clearly show that the urethral affection exercised any definite causative influence. In all cases of obstinate urethral neuralgia, spasm, or even discharge, in which no adequate cause can be discovered in the urethra or bladder, it is proper carefully to examine the rectum for worms, for hemorrhoids, and particularly for fissure. I have several times succeeded in this way in discovering and removing the cause of a pro- tracted, painful and annoying condition, which had resisted months of treatment by 1 Castelnau, quoted by Van Buren and Keyes, mentions a singular condition of prostatic and urethral anaesthesia—the patient having no orgasm, and being unconscious of the passage of semen—left behind by gonorrhoea, and coinciding with an inflammatory engorgement of the ure- thra. The normal sensation returned after several months.