BEDSORES. 307 sacrum, and lay bare the trochanters and the crest of the ilium. The addi- tion of these sloughs as a complication to any other sickness, is very apt to become the determining cause of a fatal result, and hence they must be guarded against with most scrupulous care. Treatment op Bedsores.—-The cause of bedsores, which consists chiefly in pressure, is very diflicult to remove, and yet, even at the expense of injury done to other sickness that may be present, this must be carefully done as far as possible. Frequent change of position, so as to relieve the suffering points for a portion of the time, is one of the most efficient methods of prevention, and is almost sure to accomplish its object when the change can be made per- manent. The surfaces, before becoming abraded, may be covered with soft leather, such as chamois skin, spread with empTastrum saponis, or with unirritating poultices; but the latter have little efficiency, and are difficult of applica- tion. Rings of cotton-cloth, stuffed with hair, cotton, or wool, of such a size as to bring the pressure outside of the suffering point, should be carefully adjusted. It is surprising with what rapidity these unhealthy surfaces will take on the process of repair, when the pressure is entirely removed. They seem to possess none of the peculiar power of hospital gangrene for self-propagation. They are simply traumatic. When the surfaces have once become broken, there is no better treatment than to dress them in the way described, although this is attended with some inconvenience at the points where these sores are apt to occur. A ring of the kind mentioned may have a poultice placed across its opening, and thus be made to present to the sore the softest bed for it to lie on. Rings of India-rubber and air-cushions are used,1 but are, in my estimation, inferior to the simple ones described above, which it is needless to say should never be used a second time. But such measures must not take the place of frequent change of position, and it is surprising how much bene- fit may be obtained by simply rolling the patient upon the sheet from one side to the other every hour, even for a short distance. Where the presence of the urine cannot be avoided, much benefit will result from the constant use of unirritating unguents, such as simple cerate, oil, or vaseline. When there is fear that an ulcer may be established, it is useful to bathe the surface affected with water acidulated with vinegar, or with lemon-juice, and thus to neutralize the alkalinity of the moist exudates. Prof. Billroth prefers a hair mattress for the patient to lie on, and it must be confessed that this is superior to most others, but the water-bed of Arnott should claim the preference. Un- fortunately, this is rarely accessible. The continuous bath, kept constantly at a temperature a little above 100° Fahr., has been used with excellent effect, the body being suspended in water by bands above and below the sore. The inconvenience of the plan must be its principal objection. ISTo better treat- ment for the sloughing ulcer could be devised, except the entire removal of pressure which in most cases cannot be effected. It is often observed that bedsores present, at the same time, a tendency to heal at one portion of their surface, while sloughing is going on at another. This is due to the change of position, and is illustrated in Plate Y. Fig. 2, which represents a large surface denuded upon the sacrum and hips of a young girl of feeble intellect, who was dying of consumption, and who allowed her urine to pass into the bed. I must not fail to call attention to a condition of so-called bedsores among the insane, which are to be distinguished from those described above by the 1 Purfoi urges the use of a beef’s bladder, partially distended with air, to be placed on the part.