336 GONORRHOEA. end of the second week, the inflammation is gradually extending backward, and may give rise to other complications. Follicular and Peri-urethral Abscesses.—Dipping down from the urethral membrane into the little mucous follicles which empty upon its sur- face, the inflammation of gonorrhoea occludes their mouths by causing swelling of their lining membrane, and converts them into little bags or pockets of pus —follicular abscesses—which appear as small, round, tender tumors along the under surface of the urethra. They very often open internally, but now and then adhesion to the skin takes place, pointing occurs outwardly, and they dis- charge upon the cutaneous surface. Fortunately they are not followed by urinary fistulee. If the suppurative process involves the loose connective tissue around the urethra, a peri-urethral abscess is formed. This is most fre- quent at precisely the points which on a priori grounds would have been selected —those at which gonorrhoea is most persistent, the fossa navicularis and the anterior part of the membranous urethra. It is accompanied with localized tenderness and swelling, but on account of the easily distensible nature of the structure in which it is situated, is not very painful. It is a more dangerous complication than the folliculitis, just described, as in rare instances its spon- taneous evacuation into the urethra has permitted of extravasation of urine with all its attendant dangers. It is also much more apt to be followed by persistent fistulre. I have now under my care several cases in which pin- point communication exists between the urethra and the external surface, in the neighborhood of the frsenum and near the peno-scrotal junction. Lympiiangeitis.—In a certain proportion of cases of gonorrhoea, a simple lymphangeitis occurs as a result of absorption of purulent matter. It affects most commonly the lymphatics of the dorsum of the penis, and has been in my experience almost invariably associated with neglect of cleanliness and retention of the discharge between the prepuce and the glans. This is what might be expected on anatomical grounds from the group of lymphatics involved, those directly connected with the urethra itself belonging to the deeper set, and running beneath the pubic arch to join the deep lymphatics of the pelvis, and to terminate in the lumbar glands. The symptoms consist in a thickened, cord-like line of induration, extending from the prepuce to the root of the penis, usually tender to the touch, easily isolated from the surrounding structures, and often traceable upon the surface by a faint red linear blush. The dorsal phlebitis which is said sometimes to occur, is described as associated with more oedematous swelling, and is said to be without the distinct line of induration separable from adjoining parts, and to be unassociated with any enlargement of the lymphatic glands of the groin, which is rarely absent when the lymphatics are involved. I have never seen a case of this character, and believe it to be an exceedingly rare complication of gonorrhoea. The lymphitis of syphilis is unassociated with tenderness, has for its point of origin the initial lesion, and is accompanied by multiple painless indurations of inguinal glands. Bubo.—Either with or without this condition as a forerunner, adenitis of one of the glands of the groin may be the result of gonorrhoea—or, in other words, we may have a gonorrhoeal bubo. The gland affected is usually one of the superficial set, lying just below Poupart’s ligament, imbedded in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, and above the fascia lata. A small, painful tumor makes its appearance in the groin; it is at first freely movable beneath the skin, but afterwards contracts adhesions to the latter and to the surrounding parts, becomes doughy in feel, and reddish or purplish in hue. In the