223 SUNBURNS. Complications and Causes op Death apter Burns. Burns may prove early fatal from shock ; from the exhaustion incident to the intense strain upon the nervous system, that is, from paralysis of the nerve-centres from congestion of internal organs ; from pulmonary and gastro- intestinal inflammations or ulcerations ; and, at a later period, from exhaustion incident to drain from various sources, and also from pyaemia., septicaemia, erysipelas, or tetanus ; the advent of blood-poisoning is announced by rigors, and the usual symptoms of metastatic abscesses. Professor Politick, in endeavoring to determine the cause of sudden deaths after burns, hitherto unexplained, found in animals, at once after severe burns, a profound altera- tion and destruction of the red blood corpuscles, and concluded that as a con- sequence the internal organs, and particularly the kidneys, suffered corre- spondingly from infarcts owing to capillary embolism by masses of altered hsemoglohuline; and he accordingly has ascribed the sudden deaths which so commonly occur in burns and scalds to the excessive destruction of the blood corpuscles. To supply the red corpuscles thus lost, transfusion of blood has been suggested as the most appropriate treatment. The congestion of the lungs and subsequent pneumonia often observed may have some connection with this blood change. Scalds of the mouth, pharynx, and glottis now and then happen to young children, who by mistake drink boiling water from the spouts of tea-kettles: grave symptoms soon ensue, chiefly caused by inflammatory swelling and oedema of the glottis; occasionally diphtheritic deposit takes place, and suffoca- tion becomes imminent, requiring tracheotomy. This operation, however, is in these unfortunate cases usually unsuccessful. Of twenty-eight cases in which the operation has been performed on account of scalds in the larynx, twenty-three have terminated fatally. Occasionally burns of the face and head are followed by erysipelas; and, when the eyeball is involved, keratitis, ulceration, and sometimes corneal perforation, with destructive inflammation of the globe, ensue. Sunburns. Although these injuries are usually very trivial, so slight generally as to require hardly a passing notice, yet occasionally persons who have a delicate skin suffer severely from brief exposure, not only to intense but even to ordinary sunshine. This form of burn is characterized by a diffuse redness of the skin, with more or less persistent smarting pain. It usually occurs in the summer season, and affects more often those who are unused to expo- sure to the sun’s influence. The face, neck, forearms, and hands are usually involved. Serious symptoms now and then arise, when a very large extent (two-thirds) of the surface is implicated, and even fatal results from sun- burn—from violent inflammation of the skin, with gangrene—have been reported. Upon the subsidence of the erythematous redness, desquamation of the epidermis takes place, the color changes to a reddish-brown, and the skin gradually but slowly regains its normal state. Dr. Morris Longstreth, one of my colleagues at the Pennsylvania Hospital, who has had an unusual experience in this form of burns, writes me as follows:— “ The cases of sunburn that I have seen included examples of almost every grade of the affection, varying from a slight redness of the hands and face, of no moment, except from an aesthetic point of view, to a burn that involved more than half of the