20 WOUNDS. or by the third intention, is said to occur. The process of repair under these circumstances is similar to that of adhesive union, the two layers of granu- lations adhering in the one case, as the two surfaces of divided tissue do in the other, by means of new material. The capillaries and embryo-cells under both circumstances undergo changes such as have been described. For this form of union to take place, the granulations, however, must be healthy. Repair by Scabbing.—When wounds heal by scabbing, granulations do not form. In this process, the reparative material which is poured out, under- goes at once similar changes to those already described as taking place in adhesive union, and the wound cicatrizes rapidly beneath the scab ; for the serum of the blood, when effused on the surface of a wound, is of a highly plastic character, and cpiickly coagulates to form a film of a protective na- ture, under which repair may rapidly proceed, the embryo cells, with this plasma—Hunter’s “plastic lymph”—being the medium of repair. Advan- tage is taken of this fact in the treatment of superficial wounds, the value of felt, cotton-wool, or any similar material, when applied to an open wound, entirely depending upon this plastic property of blood. Repair by scabbing is doubtless the best form of healing, although it is, unfortunately, somewhat rarely obtained. Nature of Healing Process. 77;e nature of the healing process is physiological, and resembles closely that of development and growth; the changes in the cell elements which have been described in repair, and the gradual development of the most elementary tissue into cicatricial tissue or higher structures of the human body, are simi- lar in nature, if not in form, to those which are witnessed in the embryo, when the blastoderm cells in the ovum, or primary nucleated mass of proto- plasm, grow, develop, and differentiate into the various structures of the human animal. In both of these processes, there must be pabulum for nourishment, such as the blood, and there must be a sufficient supply of it; there must likewise be a regulating force to control and direct the formative process, and this force doubtless comes from the nerves. When the vascular supply is deficient, repair, growth, or development must suffer, and the phy- siological process of repair cannot go on ; when the vascular supply is in excess, what would have been a physiological, becomes a pathological process, and the part undergoing repair after injury is said to be “ inflamed.” The process of construction under these circumstances ceases, and that of de- struction may ensue; or there may be other changes in the inflamed and for- merly repairing wound or granulating surface, which will be considered on a subsequent page, under the heading of Diseases of Granulations. What I would now impress upon the reader, is, that whatever action is required for the healing process is physiological, and is just equal to its purpose; when it is excessive, it becomes pathological, and is known as inflammation—in- flammation, when it attacks a wound, at first checking repair, subsequently undoing it, and, at a still later period, bringing about disorganizing changes ; inflammation, under all circumstances, having a destructive tendency. Regeneration of Tissues. It has already been asserted that the processes of repair are identical in all tissues; that the reparative process in bone or muscle, integument or tendon.