361 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. In those cases in which the injection is so weak as'not to prove an actual irritant, its use, with the usual preliminary urination, is doubtless sometimes beneficial, serving to wash out the urethra. In the majority of instances, however, the extra-professional practitioners who recommend these measures fail to regulate the strength carefully, and, as a consequence, the injection often serves to increase any existing tendency to inflammation, or may itself be the exciting cause of inflammatory action. Since they are useful only in promoting cleanliness, which can as well be attained without them—and as, on the other hand, they are often positively harmful-—it is a good general rule to discountenance their employment. If, for any reason, it seems proper to prescribe a liquid to be used in this manner, great care should be taken to avoid making it of sufficient strength to irritate the urethral mucous membrane, and the patient should be instructed not to use it without dilution if it give rise to any burning or smarting. Curative Treatment of Gonorrikea. In determining the proper treatment for existing gonorrhoea, it is necessary, in the first place, clearly to understand the character and stage of the case with which we are dealing. The classification which has been given will be found a good one for practical purposes, and nearly all cases can be assigned to one or other of the three classes: acute, subacute, and abortive. To take them up seriatim, we may suppose that a patient belonging to the first or acute, inflammatory class presents himself for treatment, with the symptoms characteristic of the early stage: a red, swollen meatus, a little pain on urination, and a muco-purulent discharge. The propriety of employing in such a case the so-called “ abortive ” treatment at once suggests itself, but, in my opinion, should not at the present day be seriously considered, and for two reasons. In the first place, its theoretical claims’ depend upon the existence of a specific gonorrhoeal virus, to destroy which by means of irritat- ing injections, and thus to substitute a “simple” fora “speciflq” inflammation, is the aim of the treatment. Enough has been said at the beginning of this article upon the question of specificity; if the views there advanced are the correct ones, the abortive treatment is, from this point of view, unphilo- sophical and indefensible.1 In the second place, even if that point were abandoned, there is a strong practical objection to the adoption of this method, in the impossibility which exists of accurately distinguishing at the outset between the different varieties of urethritis-—one of which, beyond question, would be greatty aggravated by this treatment. As the most ardent advocates of the abortive treatment only recommend it at the very earliest appearance of symptoms, it is evident that in many cases a slight local irritation, limited to the very extremity of the urethra, and likely to subside spontaneously in a few days, would be converted into a general urethritis, which experience has proved is just as apt to be obstinate, protracted, and attended with serious complications, as an inflammation derived from pus contagion. This treatment, then, which consists in the injection once or twice of a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or in the very frequent injection of weaker 1 Lebert, who is a firm believer in the specificity of gonorrhoea, is compelled to write as follows about the abortive treatment (Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. viii. p. 769): “Theoretically this method is quite satisfactory, since caustic fluids, such as nitrate of silver, often quickly produce a change for the better in acute and recent inflammations of mucous membranes. But this plan is not unfrequently followed by deep-seated, phlegmonous inflammation of the urethra, severe pain, and sanguineo-purulent discharge—in short, by all the signs of intense urethritis. If, therefore, we can by this means deprive gonorrhoea of its specific character, yet we substitute generally a more troublesome and dangerous malady than that which we had to treat.”