ABSCESSES. 270 generally be safely used, and is simpler and more convenient than a trocar and canula. The instrument is prepared for use simply by fixing on the two tubes, and exhausting the receiver. After exhaustion, it is rendered more portable by detaching the syringe and corresponding tube. It then consists merely of a tubular needle connected with an air-tight receiver. It is useful to interrupt the tube near the needle by inserting about an inch of glass tubing, so that it may be at once seen what kind of fluid is being drawn off. The tube leading from the needle to the receiver, and the passage through the stopcocks, must be of ample size—somewhat larger, that is, than the largest needle with which the aspirator is fitted—so that whatever can traverse the needle may also pass easily along the remainder of the route to the receiver. It is best, as a rule, to limit the use of the aspirator to abscesses which are large and not far from the surface. Those that are small are best treated by incision, while in the case of deep abscesses it may be dangerous to thrust the needle through any considerable thickness of soft parts, and difficult to know when the cavity has been fairly entered. The abscesses for which the aspi- rator is most suitable are those large collections which form in the course of disease of the spine or hip-joint, the large lax-walled kind that are met with in pysemia, and the simple chronic abscesses which occur in persons of broken health. The result of aspiration will depend on the circumstances under which matter has formed. If suppuration is connected with still active bone or joint disease, it will persist, and the abscess will continue to refill till the primary disease has subsided. But if the abscess be residual, or if it be un- connected with any abiding source of suppuration, a single evacuation, or evacuation once or twice repeated, will be sufficient for its cure. Of this favorable result the writer has seen several instances, both in large psoas and iliac abscesses formed during the repair of spinal disease, and in abscesses about the hip in old disease of that joint. Pus is no doubt sometimes too thick or too flaky to pass through the needle, but this difficulty will not be of frequent occurrence if a short and fairly large needle be employed. The scheme of washing out or irrigating abscesses at the time they are opened with some antiseptic solution, by which the degenerated products of inflammation may be at once removed, seems in theory a sound one, and, where putrefaction has occurred, some- such proceeding should, whenever it is practicable, be adopted. Both the success and the safety of this practice will, however, be found to depend largely not only on the situation, but also on the form of the abscess in which it is employed. In simple chronic abscesses of limited extent, and with a distinct sac, it will often check suppu- ration and be followed by rapid healing, while in abscesses connected with joint or bone disease, especially if the disease is acute, if the abscess is large, and its sac thin and yielding, and if it is so placed that drainage is difficult, this treatment is apt to do much mischief by carrying the products of inflam- mation into localities that were previously free from them, and also by the disturbance of parts, by which, unless much care is used, it is attended. The plan of hyperdistension recommended by Mr. Callender, which consists in the forcible injection of carbolic lotion into the abscess cavity-—so that its sac is tensely filled, and the lotion brought into contact with all its internal sur- face—and the repetition of the injection till the fluid returns unmixed with pus, sometimes proves very useful; but in several instances known to the writer, the proceeding, when employed in the form of abscess last alluded to, has been followed by acute suppuration and considerable fever. Lister's method of treating abscesses, which consists of free opening by direct incision under the carbolic spray, and subsequent free drainage by the insertion of drainage tubes, together with the use of carbolic gauze for dress- ing, may be strongly recommended both for its convenience and its safety.