MYXCEDEMA. 687 insects. In these cases, the constitutional disturbances are of such mag- nitude that the cellulitis is of comparatively little consequence. There are cases, however, in which the inflammation in the wounded limb endangers the life of the patient independently of the general blood-poisoning, and in which recovery may take place under judicious treatment. The absorption of the virus and the succeeding local inflammation take place more rapidly than in the preceding variety. Indeed, the marked changes, both local and constitutional, may run their course in two or three hours, terminating the life of the patient. In the milder forms of the disease, the wounded limb is infiltrated rapidly with bloody serum and lymph, and rapidly increases in size. The integument has a mottled and puffy appearance, and blebs of bloody serum form under the epidermis. The inflammation may extend to the tissues of the trunk on the wounded side. If the disease is protracted for three or four days, purulent masses form all through the diseased limb, as in the pre- viously described form of the disease; or gangrene may set in and destroy the life of the patient, after the constitutional effects of the poison have been over- come by the proper antidotes. (See Article on Poisoned Wounds, page 83.) The treatment consists in preventing the poison from entering the circulation by means of incisions, the application of ligatures above the wounded part, cupping the wound, cauterization, and hypodermic injections of carbolic acid at various points up and down the limb. Free incisions to lessen the tension in the limb, and the application of charcoal poultices mixed with sweet oil to the whole extremity, are efficient means of lessening the inflam- mation. Carbonate of ammonium and whiskey may be given internally in large quantities. Ammonia is sometimes introduced hypodermically. Myxcedema. Myxcedema, otherwise known as Hypertrophy of the Cellular Tissue, Cretinoid Disease, Mucoid Degeneration of the Cellular Tissue, Polysarcia, etc., is a rare af- fection first described by Sir William Gull, and subsequently by Dr. Ord and M. Olivier. It was at one time supposed to be simply an increase in the adi- pose tissue, hence the term polysarcia. There is a large increase in the fatty elements of the body, but the principal changes are found in the component elements of the cellular tissue. The characteristic symptoms of the disease, as given by Gull, are as follows: “ There is general enlargement of the whole body, especially marked on the face, which enlarges transversely, and becomes round. The skin becomes soft and delicate, and acquires a sort of transparency analogous to that of por- celain ; the cheeks are rose-colored. The subcutaneous cellular tissue about the orbit becomes loosened, that of the back of the neck, and of the throat, thick and folded. The distance between the eyes seems large, and the root of the nose depressed. The lips, large and thickened, are of a purplish-red color; the alee of the nose are hypertrophied. The face is modified in its shape, and assumes a bloated appearance, at the same time preserving a soft and rather agreeable look. The tongue becomes large and thick, the voice guttural, and pronunciation is impeded by the deformed tongue. The same changes appear on the hands, and they become infiltrated and massive. As the disease progresses the patient becomes listless, and capable of less and less exertion. The intelligence is dulled, and the habitual indifference is but rarely interrupted by periods of irritation. There is, properly speaking, no mental trouble. The trunk and inferior extremities become loaded with fat, giving the appearance of general oedema.” The disease lasts from ten to fifteen years, and its termination is characte-