80 THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. gauze-clressing applied as usual. After a few days, the limb may be put up in plaster of Paris or other suitable material, a window being left for the daily application of fresh dressings. There are many other ways in which the limb may be fixed, space being provided for aseptic dressings; but these must be left to the ingenuity of the surgeon. Some wounds may be stitched up, care being taken to provide for drain- age, but, unless in the ease of clean, incised wounds, it is better to leave the whole wound open, for otherwise there is apt to be inflammation, or even sloughing of the edges of the wound, and thus the state of matters is by no means improved. Lacerated wounds behave beautifully under this treatment. The wound is thoroughly purified by scrubbing it well with carbolic acid, and then the salicylic cream, mentioned before, is applied in considerable quantity. Then a deep dressing is fixed on, and left undisturbed for some days. When the superficial dressing is changed, this deep dressing is treated like a wound, as described before. After a week or ten days, the deep dressing may be removed, and a fresh one applied. In this way a badly lacerated wound may heal without any suppuration or sloughing of the torn parts. Blood-clot fills up the wound, and remains there. In the deeper part of this clot, and in the deeper parts of the dead tissues, organization occurs by infiltration of young cells, and cicatrization takes place under the superficial layer of the clot, so that frequently, after a time, a superficial layer of blood-clot may be peeled off from above, and a cicatrix be found beneath. Gunshot wounds may also be treated aseptically, and often with great suc- cess.1 Reyher’s experience in the recent Russo-Turkish war led him to the conclusion that the aseptic treatment of these wounds might be carried out in two ways, according to the state of the wound and the nature of the injury. If the wound was gaping, or if there was any reason to suspect that the bul- let, in its course, had carried along with it portions of clothing or other extra- neous material into the interior, it was necessary to wash out the wound with carbolic lotion after the manner described under compound fractures. When possible,- the bullet was extracted. The skin around the wound was also purified with the 1-20 lotion, and a large antiseptic dressing of carbolic gauze or salicylic wool applied. This treatment was also necessary in all wounds caused by a ball or shell, which were of course lacerated wounds. In cases where there was no reason to suppose that the bullet had carried in any foreign matter along with it, and where the edges of the wound were lying in contact, this treatment was unnecessary, and it was sufficient to disinfect merely the orifice of the wound and the surrounding skin, and to apply a suit- able antiseptic dressing. In carrying out this treatment, the spray is not necessary, but, if it is at hand, it is a great convenience, and renders the result more certain. Burns may also he treated in some cases aseptically. Where the burnt surface is not extensive, an attempt should be made to purify it by washing it with 1-20 carbolic lotion. Then, if it be small, full strength boracic ointment of the following composition may he employed. (Make a basis of 2 parts of paraffine and 1 part of vaseline. Take of this 5 parts, and of boracic acid crystals 1 part. Mix.) Outside the ointment, which is spread on a piece of linen, several layers of boracic lint are applied. Where the burn is more 1 See Reyher on “Die antiseptische Wundbehandlung in (ler Kriegschirurgie.” Volkmann’s Sammlung klinischer Vortrage, Nos. 142 und. 143, 1878.