PAPULAR SYPHILODERM. 497 mind. The syphiloderm is almost invariably confined to adult age, and is the result of acquired syphilis; psoriasis frequently manifests itself in early life, before the age of twenty. The history will almost always give some account of antecedent syphilitic symptoms, or, on the other hand, of previous psori- asis. The edges of the patch of syphiloderm are generally elevated, and possess a well-defined line of demarcation, the disease terminating abruptly against the healthy skin. When the scales are removed from a patch of psoriasis, it is seen to be scarcely elevated above the level of the surrounding skin, and not infrequently melts imperceptibly into it. The syphiloderm is not usually symmetrical, while psoriasis is very commonly so. Both syphilis and psoriasis may invade the palms and soles alone, hut when psoriasis is encountered in these parts it is apt to he met with on other parts of the body also, particularly on the extensor surfaces of the elbows and knees. Itching is apt to be present in psoriasis; it is rarely present in the syphiloderm, and, when it does exist, is but slight. Psoriasis may extend rapidly ; the syphilo- derm extends very slowly. The difference in the pathological structure of the lesions is a great help in diagnosis. The syphiloderm being a deeper infiltration and deposit in the skin, gives the appearance of thickness in the tissue of the skin, while in psoriasis the lesions are much more superficial. In psoriasis the epidermic involvement, shown by scaliness, is most obvious; in the syphiloderm it is the base of the lesion which is seen to be the promi- nent and essential manifestation. The syphiloderm is very apt to be poly- morphous, particularly if widespread—some lesions may almost always be found which are characteristic; in psoriasis, on the other hand, the type is preserved in all the lesions wherever they show themselves. Finally, some of the syphilitic lesions are liable to break down, and at one time or another give rise to some sort of ulceration, discharge, and crusting, while psoriasis is a dry disease, always and at all times. The following table, from Fournier, will give some further information regarding this question of diagnosis Differential Diagnosis between the Papulo-Squamous Syphiloderm and Psoriasis. Papulo-Squamous Syphtloderm. 1) Surface of the papule almost always incompletely covered with scales, denuded over a greater or less area. Sometimes simply a collerette of scales around the papule. (2) Scales thin, small, transparent, su- perficial, and of a grayish color. (3) The eruption is of a dark red, sometimes coppery or ham color. (4) The skin in the immediate neigh- borhood of the lesion is rather resistant to the touch than thickened, sometimes re- sembling the parchment-induration of chancre. (5) Individual lesions generally small or of medium size ; often roundish, circu- lar, or of a contour made up of segments of circles. (6) No characteristic localization ex- cept one form, the palmar and plantar. VOL. II.—32 Psoriasis. (1) Surface of the lesion always covered with scales, sometimes quite thickly. (2) Scales large, thick, superposed, im- bricated, often forming a thick covering, a sort of epidermic shell over the lesion ; the individual scales white and pearly. (3) Color less distinctly red and less deep in tint when the scales are removed. (4) Skin thickened rather than resistant to the touch in the immediate neighbor- hood of the lesions. (5) Lesions sometimes small, but also frequently large, forming patches of con- siderable size ; presenting to a much less degree a rounded outline. (6) Characteristic localization, extensor surfaces of elbows and knees.