54 WOUNDS. perfect and steady is the reparative process. Surgeons are well aware that when inflammation occurs in a part which has been the seat of some subcu- taneous operation, the process of repair is likely to be interfered with, if not arrested; for, as Paget observes, the more manifest are the signs of inflam- mation, the less is the quantity of the proper reparative material, and the slower in the end is the process of repair. When tendons are subcutaneously divided and drawn asunder, their repair takes place as follows:1— When such a tendon as the tendo Achillis is divided subcutaneously, the divided ends separate, in an infant for half an inch, and in an adult for from one to two inches, the degree depending much upon the healthy condition of the divided muscle, and the amount of movement subsequently permitted in the ankle-joint. The reparative pro- cess begins with increased vascularity in the sheath of the tendon, which is followed by the infiltration of a blastematous material into the meshes or spaces between its fibrous elements, exhibiting the development of innumerable small nuclei, a few1 cells of large size and irregular form, with granular contents, or, perhaps, with one or more nuclei, and studded with minute molecules of oil; a blastematous material, in which the cell forms do not develop beyond the stage of nuclei, appears to be the proper reparative material from which new tendon is developed. This nucleated blastema soon becomes vascular, capillary vessels having been seen in it on the eighteenth day; the nuclei assume an elongated, spindle, or oat-shaped form, and are seen after the addition of acetic acid to be arranged in parallel linear series. The tissue becomes gradually more fibriHated, and at last fibrous—a solid bond of union subsequently forming between the divided extremities of the tendon, which is tough to the touch, but to the eye presents, for at least three years, a grayish, translucent appearance, distinguishing it at once from the glistening old tendon. This new tissue remains during life as permanent, and has little tendency to contract subsequently. Adams’s observations rather lead him to the con- clusion, that the required portion of new tendon may be obtained during a lengthened period of formation, that is, about two or three weeks, under the ordinary conditions of health ; but that in paralytic cases, or with patients of feeble health, this period may be doubled. Adams informs us, also, that the divided extremities of the old tendon take no active part in the reparative process during its earlier stages, although the cut ends subsequently become rounded, and their structure softened. They become enlarged and exhibit a tendency to split, and thin streaks of new material, similar to that already described, are seen between the fibres ; the ends are joined by these means. At a later period, the bulbous enlargement gradually diminishes. When a tendon is divided a second time, there is but little separation of its ends, and this is probably due to adhesion of the new tendon to the neighboring fibro-cellular tissue, in which fact is found an expla- nation of the unsatisfactory results of second operations. There is no reason for believ- ing that, in the treatment of deformities by tenotomy, direct approximation and re-union of the divided extremities of the tendon must first be obtained, and that the required elongation is afterwards procured by gradual mechanical extension of the new connect- ing medium, as we would stretch a piece of India-rubber. When much blood is effused between the divided ends of the tendon, it has to be absorbed; it acts merely as a foreign body in the part, and retards repair. Treatment of Subcutaneous Wounds.—When rightly treated, these wounds are generally repaired readily, and, as Hunter asserted, without inflammation; but when not rightly treated, “ the subcutaneous nature of a wound is not of itself a sufficient protection against inflammatory complications,” “and a clumsily performed subcutaneous operation may be as dangerous as an open wound; sometimes even more so” (Adams). In the treatment of these, as of 1 British surgeons are chiefly indebted, for their knowledge of the process of repair in subcu- taneous wounds, to the investigations of Sir James Paget and Mr. W. Adams, and the description in the text is mainly taken from the latter author’s work on the Reparative Process in Human Tendons, etc. (London, 1860.)