COMPLICATIONS OP THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. 437 lesions, and which constitutes a very dangerous element. These buboes, when left to themselves, always sooner or later slough, but sometimes not until they have undermined the skin to an alarming extent; hence it is good sur- gery under any circumstances to open a bubo in which fluctuation is evident. The bubo after it is opened diverges widely in its future course according to its nature. The simple bubo reveals itself as an ordinary abscess with a clean, healthy-looking floor and edges; it secretes laudable pus, the granula- tions are reel, and bleed easily upon handling, and the wound heals rapidly. The bubo by absorption, on the other hand, presents the appearance of a chan- croid, which, indeed, it is ; the floor is uneven, irregular, unhealthy-looking, covered with a clirty-grayish or yellow pultaceous layer, which is adherent to the ulcer; the edges are undermined for some little distance from the edge of the ulcer, and the overlying skin is dead and shrivelled; the discharge, which is copious, is grayish or brown, sanious, and irritating, differing widely from healthy pus, and healthy granulations are absent. Unless checked by proper treatment the ulceration extends rapidly, destroying tissue and bur- rowing deeply in the groin, down the thighs, and even up the abdominal walls, not infrequently giving rise to alarming hemorrhage from erosion of the superficial epigastric and femoral arteries. The other complications liable to occur with the simple venereal ulcer are Phimosis, Paraphimosis, Balanitis, and Phagedsena. Phimosis and Paraphimosis.—These complications are only serious if ag- gravated by intense inflammation, when they produce gangrene from impedi- ment to the proper nutrition of the part. In phimosis the skin of the penis becomes enormously oedematous, the prepuce cannot be retracted, and the discharge from beneath the foreskin becomes often so abundant as to give rise to doubt whether the case may not be one of gonorrhoea instead of chancroid. Auto-inoculation here comes to our rescue, and if the experiment be success- ful, all doubt will be ended as to whether the surgeon has a gonorrhoea or a chancroid to deal with, for the secretion of gonorrhoea is incapable of auto- inoculation. If, on the other hand, the experiment is unsuccessful, the pro- babilities will be in favor of the concealed disease being simply a clap, and this point is of importance in regard to treatment, inasmuch as in the latter event incisions may be resorted to for the relief of the phimosis, which the surgeon would hesitate to use if the concealed disease were chancroidal. In paraphunosis the diagnosis is much easier, as the parts are more exposed to view, and the only question to occupy the surgeon is the prevention of gangrene. Balanitis is not an infrequent concomitant of chancroids, and is more annoying than serious, the abrasions becoming converted into chancroidal ulcers, which have a tendency to run together into one large sore. Phagedena.—Besides the complications hitherto considered there is one other, by far the most serious which can befall. I mean Phayedcena. This occurs in consequence of some constitutional defect, such as Tuberculosis or Scrofula, or from a vitiated condition of the system—as, for example, alcohol- ismus—and not from any inherent vice in the ulcer, or in the inflammation attendant upon the chancroid itself. When this is attacked by phagedtena, a notable change occurs in its character and local aspect. The pus, which for- merly was abundant and fairly purulent, now becomes scanty and thin; its color changes from yellow to brown, sometimes even to black, from the detritus of tissue; the floor of the ulcer becomes of a leaden-gray, brown, or black