173 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. change in the temper and habits of the individual, and epilepsy, are not rarely found as the result of these injuries. Judging from the cases reported by Otis, one in six of cranial contusions from rifle-bullets and shell-fragments may he expected to cause death and, speaking generally, these contusions when severe are more serious than fractures, the breaking of the bone in a measure protecting the brain and its coverings, lesion of which is the chief element of danger in all head injuries. Treatment.—When contusion is known to have occurred, the maintenance of rest is of the utmost importance, and, if symptoms of internal inflamma- tion show themselves, cold should be applied, either by ice-bags or by a coil of rubber tubing (the mediate-irrigation coil of Petitgand). Subperiosteal Fig. 272. Mediate irrigation ; coil applied to head, (Petitgand.) suppuration occurring, the pericranium should be incised, and if the exposed bone is discolored, porous, and exuding pus, it should be opened with a small saw or trephine; often the external table only, in the latter case, requires to be removed. In a word, cranial suppurative osteo-periostitis should be treated in the same way as the corresponding affection in a long bone. If the early occurrence of compression makes it probable that there has been extensive hemorrhage from a ruptured sinus or meningeal vessel, the trephine should be used, so that, if possible, the clot may be removed and the bleeding stopped. When later-occurring symptoms indicate that pus has accumulated beneath the skull, although “ it is impossible to distinguish intracranial sup- puration from arachnitis” (Ashhurst), and although the result of complete trephining in gunshot contusion has been very unsatisfactory—all of the twelve cases thus treated during our war having proved fatal—yet, as the condition if left to itself is almost certain to cause death ; and as the simple removal of a button of bone with a conical trephine can only do harm by the resulting admission of air, while such harm can be greatly or altogether prevented by antiseptic after-treatment; and as evacuation of pus may relieve the symp- 1 Of three hundred and twenty-eight patients with gunshot contusion of the cranial bones, fifty-five, or seventeen per cent., died; ninety-eight, or thirty per cent., were disabled from causes referable to injuries of the head ; and one hundred and seventy-five, or fifty-three per cent., recovered.