548 SYPHILIS. and as late as the twentieth year after infection. They are found more com- monly among men than among women, and are apt to occur between the ages of twenty and thirty, chiefly because syphilis is most apt to be con- tracted at this period of life. It is said by some authorities that nervous symptoms are more apt to show themselves in cases where the earlier mani- festations of syphilis have been mild, while others hold the opposite view, and consider severe early symptoms the forerunners of nervous disease. In my opinion, no prognosis can be made in any given case by observation of the early manifestations. The nervous tissue is not usually attacked primarily, but as the result of lesions in the surrounding or investing structures. For instance, lesions of the meninges, or of the bones, induce softening or induration of the brain. A characteristic of the nervous lesions of syphilis is that they are peculiar in their distribution, and may occur in several places at once, thus giving rise to irregular and incongruous symptoms. Nervous symptoms of a syphilitic character are peculiarly liable to occur in individuals of a neurotic or neuropathic constitution, hereditary or ac- quired. Mental anxiety, depressing emotions, sexual excesses, the abuse of alcohol and of narcotics, are among the known predisposing causes. Dis- eases accompanied by cerebral congestion, malaria and other conditions pro- ducing cachexia, may act indirectly. Sunstroke and injuries to the skull may also be included among the predisposing causes. Pathological Anatomy.—Lesions of the Cranial Meninges.—Meningitis may result primarily from syphilitic disease in the structure of the meninges, or secondarily from syphilitic lesions of the cranial bones. The first variety alone is at present to be considered. Either of the membranes may be affected singly, or all together. The lesions may be gummatous in character, or they may consist in diffuse infiltrations accompanied or not by inflamma- tion, or inflammation alone may occur. Lesions of the Encephalon.—Gummata of the brain present themselves in the form of irregular, variously-sized, firm tumors. These are almost invariably situated at or near the surface. Sometimes they occur in considerable num- bers, and disseminated in different parts of the brain, thus giving rise, as has been remarked above, to various and confusing symptoms. As to size, gum- mata of the brain are rarely larger than a hen’s egg, or smaller than a pea. Miliary gummata of the brain are rarely or never met with. The most common seats of gummata are the convex surfaces of the hemispheres in the frontal region, the base of the brain near the pituitary body, and the pons Varolii. The first of these localizations explains the frequency of aphasia in syphilitic brain affections, while the latter accounts for the coexistence of trifacial neuralgia and paralysis of the motor nerves of the eye, this last being an almost pathognomonic symptom of brain syphilis. Gummata of the cerebellum are very rare. Only a few cases have been re- ported ; these presented symptoms of motor incoordination, etc. Lesions of the Spinal Meninges and of the Cord.—Lesions of the spinal meninges are almost always secondary, and due to exostoses of the vertebral walls. They are very rare as primary lesions, although such cases have been reported by Wilks, Winge and Charcot, and Gombault. In some of these cases the cord was also involved, gummata being found in its substance. Lesions of the Nerves.—As has been said, the nerves are not usually at- tacked primarily by syphilitic disease, their troubles generally arising from pressure and atrophy, which interfere with their functions. Tumors of the nerves proper have, however, been reported by Esmarch and Jespersen, Dixon, Portal, and Delafield. Petroff asserts that the sympathetic is attacked,