630 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. or scrotum, or it may affect primarily the labia or penis. The scrotum, espe- cially, is gradually converted into an enormous tumor, which hangs down below the knees, drags down the skin of the abdomen and inguinal region in the form of a narrow pedicle, and buries the penis within its mass, the posi- tion of the latter organ being recognized only by a funnel-shaped canal which leads into the mouth of the urethra, and through which the urine finds its passage to the surface. Such growths have been removed, weighing in some instances as much as 165 pounds. The clitoris, too, attains in this way enor- mous dimensions, hanging down as a globular mass below the knees. The newly formed connective tissue is much softer in the genital varieties than in the crural, and the disease has here been called Elephantiasis mollis, from its gelatinous appearance on section. Another variety of the disease is called Elephantiasis teleangiectodes, Derma- tolysis, or Cutis pendula. The skin of considerable portions of the body ap- pears to be too large for the part, and hangs in folds, or in globular masses. Such dependent flaps may feel hard, or soft, and are partly compressible. These hypertrophies, or new-growths, as they are variously regarded by anat- omists, are said to be always congenital, and to consist primarily of vascular and connective tissue; they may remain of their original size and character through life, or may develop into elephantoid hypertrophy of the integument, and may extend over large surfaces of the body. They are occasionally ob- served hanging down from the whole length of the arm, like the dewlap of a cow, and depending from the shoulders and back. The parts to which they are attached are frequently atrophied. According to the preponderance of the vascular over the connective tissue, these growths assume the character of the “vascular spongy tumor,” or “ cavernous blood tumor,” on the one hand, or of the firmer Molluscum jibrosmn, on the other. In addition to the hard and gelatinous connective tissue which forms the bulk of the tumor, with the new development of bloodvessels, greatly dilated lymph spaces enter into its structure. Causes.—The causes of Elephantiasis Arabum, occurring as an endemic affection, are not known, although many theories have been offered in expla- nation ; among these, the latest, which has recently been advanced in India, is that the disease is due to the presence in the circulating fluids of filarise, which are supposed to be introduced within the vessels through the agency of mosquitos. Any condition which tends to develop a chronic oedema, will favor the production of this affection. Therefore, in elephantiasis of the leg, varix, chronic eczema, disease of the bones of the part, or any chronic inflammatory process, may be an important factor in sporadic cases, but in the genital forms of the disease, the whole process seems to be passive and inexplicable. Treatment.—The objects to be accomplished in the treatment of Elephan- tiasis cruris are: to prevent the attacks of recurrent erysipelatous inflamma- tion, in the early stages, and to remove the chronic oedema which furnishes the nutritive elements for the hypertrophied tissues. The possibility of effect- ing a radical cure by ligation of large, afferent, arterial trunks, or the propriety of removing the part.by amputation, may also become a question for consid- eration. The inflammatory attack should be treated by absolute rest of the limb, in an elevated position, and by the use of evaporating lotions, or of warm fomentations. After its subsidence, gradual compression of the hyper- trophied part with bandages should be undertaken. These should be applied in the morning, before the patient leaves his bed, beginning with the foot