143 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS IN GUNSHOT WOUNDS. If, however, its occupation must be continued, though this seldom need be the case in military practice, we have in antiseptic surgery, as we shall see hereafter, a more or less complete protection for its wounded inmates. Hos- pital gangrene ought not to appear spontaneously in a hospital, and its de- velopment de novo is a positive proof of maladministration—the fault being either in the building, its ventilation, or its drainage, or in the responsible officer, by his permitting or .compelling over-crowding. The disease may, however, be brought into any hospital, no matter how well managed, and the most prompt isolation may not always prevent infection; but only by iso- lation can the spread of the affection be prevented. Pyaemia, Septicaemia, etc.—The treatment of the other so-called “ hospital diseases,” septicaemia, pyaemia, and erysipelas, when they occur as complica- tions of gunshot wounds, differs in no respect from that which is appropriate when they are met with in ordinary civil practice. If possible, their sub- jects should be taken out of hospital, and placed under more favorable hy- genic conditions. Sedillot has declared that he has “ seen numerous examples of wounded men attacked with pyaemia, who had recovered after amputation, after having been moved to other more salubrious placesand amputation or resection is always indicated in severe wounds, especially of the larger bones or joints, when this complication appears. Tetanus, when it occurs, which ik fortunately not very often, cannot, if acute, be controlled in the vast majority of cases by any treatment whatso- ever. Notwithstanding the fact that, since the days of Hennen, curare, calabar, chloral, and the bromides have been introduced, and each declared to be curative, the surgeon must still say, with that author, “ My observations have tended more to show me what I could not trust to, than what I could place the smallest reliance on, when the disease was once fully formed.” Amputation and nerve-stretching have occasionally been followed by re- covery, but usually by death. Of the four cases of recovery from the acute form of the disease reported from our army during the war of the Rebellion, two were after amputation. The cases of tetanus among the wounded of the great wars of the last twenty years “have not modified the conclusion of Romberg, that, wherever tetanus puts on the acute form, no curative pro- ceedings will avail, while in the milder and more tardy form, the most various remedies have been followed by cure.” (Otis.) Antiseptic Dressings in Gunshot Wounds. As respects the general treatment of gunshot wounds, the most interesting question of the day is: What is the value, and how wide the applicability, of the antiseptic dressing in this class of injuries ? Almost all the deaths after gunshot wounds, which are not fatal because of the vital importance of the parts damaged, are consequent upon protracted suppuration, or upon the inflammatory complications which have been noticed. Eliminate these morti- ferous causes, and the prognosis at once becomes comparatively favorable. Is it true, as averred by MacCormac, that “ it is not the presence of the ball, nor the fact of the bone being splintered, which occasions inflammation and sup- puration, but the entrance of septogenic matter from without, or of pieces of soiled clothing carried in by the ball ?” or, as declared by Hussbaum, that “ the fate of a wounded man depends almost entirely upon the surgeon who treats the wound during the first hours ?” That in the past few years, in