94 POISONED WOUNDS. Snake-Bites. As is well known, there are many genera of snakes which are destitute of poison-apparatus, and wholly harmless to man. Life may indeed be destroyed by the boas or pythons, the constricting snakes, which enfold and crush ani- mals, and occasionally human beings, before swallowing them as food. But it is with venomous snakes, strictly speaking, that we are now concerned. All kinds of reptiles are much more numerous in hot than in cold climates, and in hot weather they are more active, and the danger from those which are venomous is greater. The principal poison-snake of North America is the rattlesnake, or Crotalus horridus ; there is also the moccasin, the copperhead, or Trigonocephalus, the cotton-mouth (perhaps only a variety of the last-named), and a species of Elaps, of which the popular name is, I believe, the “ harlequin.” In India, the Cobra, the Naia or Naja, the Daboia, and the Trimerisurus, are, according to Fayrer,1 those which are most frequently met with, and most hurtful to man. Among African snakes, the Cerastes cornutus, or horned snake, and the Naja haje, or asp, seem to be the best known. The Jararaea, a Crotaline species, is the chief pest of this kind found in Brazil and Central America. The only snake known in Europe is the viper. All these are land snakes, although they swim freely on occasion. Fayrer2 describes and figures a large number of Hydro- phid.cE or sea snakes, which are very poisonous; they are found in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and in the seas between Southern China and Australia. All fresh-water snakes are harmless, except perhaps the cotton-mouth. It would be a waste of time to quote descriptions of these serpents, further than to say that the hooded snakes are peculiar to India, and the rattlesnake to America, one only among Indian snakes, the Halys Himalayana, belong- ing to the Crotaline or rattlesnake group ; in it the rattle is represented by a caudal spine. The poison apparatus of snakes may, however, be briefly referred to. Poison-Apparatus.—All venomous snakes have at either side of the ante- rior part of the upper jaw, two long recurved fangs, movable3 by means of a joint between the maxillary bone and the ecto pterygoid. The poison is secreted in sacs lying behind and below the eyes; from each sac it is con- veyed by a duct to a tube or canal in the corresponding fang, terminating at or near the tip of the latter. Thus the same action strikes the fang into the victim and injects the poison into the wound as it is made. Behind each fang lie others partly developed, ready to grow into its place should it be broken or extracted. This apparatus, as well as the poison itself and its mode of action, has been, in the case of the rattlesnake, carefully studied and admirably described by Dr. S. W. Mitchell.4 It appears to present itself with but slight modifica- tions in all the venomous snakes. The fang is said by Holbrook to be, in the Elaps of our southern States, permanently erect, and not jointed as above described. • 1 The Thanatophidia of India. London, 1872. 2 Op cit. 8 Fayrer (op. cit.) says that in the Hydrophidae the fang3 are small, and differ very little from the other maxillary teeth. They have also only a groove, and not a tube, for the transmission of their poison. 4 Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake : with an Investigation of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Organs concerned. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 18(i0. See also a paper by the same author, “On the Treatment of Rattlesnake Bites,” etc. North Americau Medico-Cliirurgical Review, March, 1861.