105 ARROW WOUNDS. 1 Unpublished Notes on Arrow Wounds in the Office of the Surgeon-General, U. S. Army. untwisted, and it is easily made straight. It is then confined in this straight condition on a flat rock, by superimposed weights, until it becomes dry, when it remains straight. It is next cut to the length approved by the archer who has fashioned it, a length ranging from twenty-six to thirty-four inches. A slit is made at one end to hold the neck of the iron head, a notch at the other to receive the bow-string and the feathering that is to steady its course, and the shaft is done. The third part of the arrow is the clamp that binds head and shaft together. This is a fiat piece of sinew, or tendinous ribband. The neck of the arrow- head having been pushed into its place in the slit of the shaft, the well-soaked sinew is tightly wrapped around the joint. As it dries, it contracts, and so pinches together the sides of the cleft. Thus by its embrace, a bit of iron and an innocent stick are transformed into an inflexible, dangerous weapon, for, as will appear, much of the danger of arrow wounds depends upon this peculiarity of construction. Bird Arrow.—The bird arrow, consisting of a simple shaft, its end pointed and hardened by fire, is sometimes used in war. Thus Mr. Evans was wounded in the top of his left lung by a bird arrow, which he plucked away at once. He died two weeks afterwards.1 Range and Penetration op Arrows.—Although the distance at which arrow fire is effective, is not great—being less than 100 yards—the penetra- tiveness of the missile itself, even at far range, is surprising. I have seen an arrow, discharged from the distance of an hundred yards, so deeply imbedded in an oak plank that it could not be removed by any force directly applied. I have often had occasion to notice the tightness with which an arrow-head is held, when it has penetrated a bone. It is usually impossible to remove it by direct traction. The Indian highly prizes this power of penetration, and increases it by skill and practice. An arrow which has been shot in the chase through the body of a buffalo, is carefully treasured and decorated, and, when worn on festal days, marks its owner as a man of the most worshipful skill. There are numerous specimens in the Army Medical Museum proving the Penetration of superciliary ridge and brain by an arrow. (A. M. M.,Sect. I. Spec. 5644.) Ribs of buffalo transfixed by arrows. (A. M. M., Sect. I. Spec. 4735, 4736.) penetrativeness of the arrow. Among these, I have selected three, represented in Figs. 225, 226, and 227. In the former, an arrow has gone through the thickest part of the superciliary ridge, and then four inches into the brain. Figs. 226 and 227 show ribs of the buffalo transfixed by arrow heads.