146 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. the compact tissue, it may or may not be associated with necrosis, and in the medullary cavity, may involve either isolated portions of the medulla—the pus being in small, distinct pockets—or may he diffused. In diffused medul- lary suppuration, which is always consequent upon a high degree of inflam- mation, and which generally occurs in debilitated subjects, or in those placed under most unfavorable hygienic surroundings, the medullary canal is filled with a mixture of unhealthy pus, blood, and broken down marrow. In this putrid osteo-myelitis, especially when affecting spongy bones, moist gangrene (the mephitic gangrene of Lidell) may, though rarely, be developed ; the bone being “ moist, dirty gray, dirty pale green, or dirty greenish-brown in color, and exhaling to a greater or less extent the intolerably offensive odor of rotting bone.”1 These suppurative inflammations are very likely to give rise to general infection, and a large percentage of their high mortality is due to pyaemia. As Fayrer has said, “ it is not the mere local mischief that one dreads, although that may cause the loss of the limb. It is the constitutional disease to which it gives rise . . . that we must consider the great source of danger.” There may he, in the milder cases, no symptoms other than those referable to the accompanying injury of the soft parts, and even when there has been killing outright, delay in healing or re-opening of the apparently closed wound may at times be the only effect- produced by the presence and elimi- nation of the dead bone. In the severer inflammations which yet do not terminate in pus formation, the osteitis may generally be diagnosticated by the character of the pain and the nature of the swelling of the affected part; as it may in the milder, externally located, suppurative cases, after a time, by the added discharge of pus, the detection with the probe of denuded bone, and the associated constitutional symptoms. In the very gi’ave form of osteo- myelitis which is ushered in with a chill and attended with delirium, the acute inflammation, if it does not cause death within a few days, is likely to abate, and recovery may ultimately take place after separation of the ne- crosed bone. In many of these cases, there comes on “ from the tenth to the twenty-fifth day a new fever, with an intense initial chill followed after a day or two by several more; then all the symptoms of purulent infection are developed. As death is the ordinary termination of this complication, an autopsy permits us to recognize the lesions of putrid osteo-myelitis, and often, at the same time, those of a suppurative phlebitis which is equally putrid in most of the cases of this sort.” (Gosselin.) Treatment.—When there are no symptoms apparent, except those of an ordinary contusion or wound of the soft parts, treatment of the latter is all that will be required. When to these are added symptoms indicative of necro- sis, nothing should be done until the dead piece is separated, when it should be speedily removed. In the much more common cases of periosteal or osseous inflammation, if the symptoms are at all grave, the surgeon, in addition to the ordinary constitutional and local antiphlogistic treatment, should make a free incision through the periosteum, and, if the disease is not superficial, a longitudinal section of the bone with a Iley’s saw; or should open the me- dullary cavity with the trephine. If a considerable part of the shaft of a long bone is found to be involved, or if the severity of the constitutional symptoms shows that the disease is of the diffused, suppurative, or gangrenous form, amputation in contiguity, at the articulation next above, should be resorted to at once; and even when pyaemic symptoms have manifested themselves, the patient may occasionally, 1 A like condition is at times met with in long bones “ as the result of violence which suddenly deprives the part of its vitality.”