SYPHILIS. 574 extemporaneous apparatus can readily be arranged, or the corrosive subli- mate may be dissolved in water, and subjected to ebullition by any ordinary process. A simple apparatus may be made by bending a piece of tin into a table, or a brick may be heated, and the calomel sprinkled upon its surface, a pail of boiling water being at the same time placed by its side under the chair on which the patient sits. The patient should be clothed in a long sleeveless flannel gown of ample dimensions, over which should be placed a somewhat similar garment of India-rubber “ Mackintosh” cloth. He should sit upon a cane-seated chair, under which the fumigating apparatus should be placed, the flannel gown and Mackintosh covering the whole seat and apparatus. The lamp being lit, vapor of water is flrst generated, enveloping the patient in a steam which soon provokes a free perspiration. As the temperature of the apparatus rises, the calomel also becomes vaporized, and is readily absorbed by the skin. As soon as the mercury has disappeared, the light is put out, and the patient remains seated and covered with his bath-clothes until the body begins to cool slightly. The rubber coat is then removed, and the patient is wrapped in blankets until all perspiration has ceased, and the body has become cool and tolerably dry, when he may put on his ordinary clothes again. But it is better to give the bath at bedtime, and let the patient retire imme- diately, sleeping in his flannel gown. The fumigation treatment is one which it is not always easy to employ in private practice, but it is I think the best and most efficient, form of medica- tion when there is an extensive and stubborn eruption of the skin which fails to yield readily to internal treatment, when the greatest rapidity of cure is desirable, or in cases where the patient’s stomach is weak, and it is desirable to save it in every way. Occasionally patients complain of a feeling of de- bility and headache, which may be obviated by using less steam, and by dimin- ishing the length of the bath. Diarrhoea, and occasionally, though rarely, salivation, are also observed in some cases. The frequency of the baths should be determined by the strength of the patient and by the degree of mercurial action desired. In early syphilis, when the patient’s strength is fair, the hath may be given every night, but in late syphilis, when a rapid effect is not required and when patients are debilitated, two or three times a week is suf- ficiently often.1 Inunction.—Inunction, though an uncleanly and to many persons repugnant form of treatment, is one which is very efficient, and in some cases invaluable, as a means of rapidly impressing the system, or of producing the effects of mercury while saving the digestive organs. The plan formerly employed, and still not uncommonly resorted to, is that of rubbing a quantity of un- guentum hydrargyri into various portions of the integument in succession. Taking the groin, for instance, on the first day, and rubbing a piece of the ointment the size of a hazel-nut or a small walnut thoroughly into the skin, the other groin is selected for the next day’s operation, then one axilla, and the other, etc., until the surface is entirely gone over. The constant state of greasiness thus produced is very disagreeable, and almost intolerable to a fastidious person, and the evil is only mitigated in part by the use of the more elegant preparations of the oleate of mercury. For this reason I have of late years usually employed the following method, which was first brought to my notice by one of Dr. Sturgis’s writings. The patient bathes the feet thor- oughly in hot water the night on which the first inunction is made, when half a drachm of oleate of mercury of 20 per cent, strength is rubbed briskly into 1 A very good article on mercurial fumigations is that by Prof. D. W. Yandell, published in the American Practitioner, Louisville, Sept. 1877.