SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 634 slightly painful on, or independently of, pressure. It grows very slowly, some- times spreading itself out as a thick, firm plate, with sharply defined edges, embedded in the skin, and movable with it; sometimes rising above it as a beau-like prominence, several lines in height; sometimes sending out ridge- like prolongations from its central mass into the surrounding skin, and pre- senting the most varied shapes. Years are ordinarily required for its fullest development, and it may attain the size of the palm of a hand. It is, possi- bly, capable of self-involution, but it never undergoes any other anatomical change, nor exhibits any surface lesions excepting the thinned, smooth epi- dermis, mostly devoid of hair. Its seat is most frequently the anterior tho- racic region, the neighborhood of the sternum particularly, but it may occur on any part of the surface, especially when it arises from pre-existing scars, such as those left behind by acne, leech-bites, etc. Generally single in its develop- ment, keloid may occur in numerous patches, as many as twenty or more. Of its causes, nothing definite is known, observation merely showing that some persons are so prone to the formation of this newr growth, that any in- jury to the skin becomes the seat of its development. The black race is especially disposed to it, the growth attaining an enormous size, in some in- stances, upon the seat of former injuries to the integment. Anatomically, keloid is found to consist of dense fibrous-tissue new growth, arranged in direction parallel to the surface of the skin. It starts with the development, about the arteries of the corium, of spindle-shaped cells, which become finally fibres. These increasing, make the bundles of fibrous tissue, which press upon, and finally obliterate, the vessels and glandular structures of the skin, until its whole substance is converted into dense fibrous tissue. In the out- lying portions, the early development of the new growth may be always studied in the adventitia of the vessels, extending into the apparently healthy structure of the skin to a considerable distance beyond the mass of the tumor. The superficial tissues of the corium, the papillary layer, remain unchanged. In the so-called “ false keloid,” arising from pre-existing scar tissue, that por- tion of the growth which occupies the seat of the former cicatrix, is of course without the papillary bodies, superficially, inasmuch as they must have been destroyed in the preceding destructive process; but the remainder of the growth, extending from the original scar as a centre, presents no differences from keloid of spontaneous development. Microscopic investigations of the structure of the starting-point, minute it may be, of the growth, would be the only means in many cases, therefore, of distinguishing one clinical form from the other. From hypertrophied scar tissue proper, keloid is distin- guished not only by this absence of the papillary structure, but also by the want, in the former, of parallelism in the arrangement of the fibres, which run in all directions. Treatment.—Although keloid is not destructive of life or of cutaneous tissue, it is an affection which may be called in one sense malignant, inas- much as it is incapable of cure, and will return repeatedly after excision. It would be useless to call attention to the various remedies which have been advised by writers to check its progress or cause its involution, for no evi- dence exists that they are capable of exerting action in either direction. Neither is the destruction of the growth, by caustics, or its most careful and apparently complete extirpation by dissection, of avail; the scar tissue which necessarily results always forming a starting point for the re-development of the fibrous-tissue new-growth, which must be pronounced incurable. The only treatment possible, lies in the direction of relief to the pain and itching, which in many, cases accompany the disease, especially during its period of active growth. For this purpose, it may be protected from contact with the