SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. 114 the shaft, he will probably fail to find the foreign body. To -leave the shaft intact, or to cut it oft’ carefully an inch from the surface, for convenience of tranportation, is the safety of the patient. Soldiers, or those liable to be wounded by arrows, should understand the danger of meddling with an im- planted shaft, and every effort should be made to keep this in its place until proper surgical aid can be given. Not only is the presence of the shaft necessary for the easy finding of the head, but it will be the best guide in case it should be necessary to cut for and tie some wounded vessel. Treatment of Wounds of Special Parts. Nei'ves.—If a nerve has been partially divided, or if such an accident is suspected, it is right to cut down to the nerve supposed to be injured, and complete its division. Our knowl- edge of the cutaneous distribution of the nerves will aid us in determining the particular nerve which has been hurt. Thus, in a case which I saw in 1860, in which an arrow passed through the middle of the leg, I inferred from the intense pain felt in the fibular side of the foot, that the musculo-cutaneous nerve had been injured, and a small incision showed that nerve to be partly divided. I completed the division with the knife, giving immediate relief from pain, and without producing permanent inconvenience to the patient. I think that this would be the correct treatment even if a nerve as large as the sciatic were partly divided. Wounds of Vessels.—If an arrow divides or wounds an artery or vein, and the hemorrhage demands it, we must search for the bleeding point, using the shaft as a director. Then we should act according to circumstances. If the vessel be a small artery or vein, its complete division will probably check the hemorrhage. If the ligature is required, we must apply the thread both to the cardiac and to the distal end of the divided artery; it is well to knot the ligature belonging to the cardiac end, for purposes of distinction. As long as the shaft remains in the wound, there will be little hemorrhage, especially if a bandage be rather tightly applied to the limb, the shaft serving as a means of making pressure on the wounded vessel. Arrow Wounds of Joints.—Usually arrow wounds of the joints do very well, but I can imagine a particular case which would involve the greatest danger. If an arrow shot with force should deeply penetrate the cancellous structure of the femoral condyles, and bury itself so deeply as to make the grasp of forceps unavailing—the joint of course being implicated—the patient would be in the greatest peril. lie would probably die if the foreign body should not be removed, and it could be removed only by a resection of the joint, or by amputation. Although I have never seen such a case, it might well occur, for an arrow head could readily penetrate so deeply into the thigh bone that not even the neck of the weapon would project. Perhaps in such a case the best course would be to employ expectant measures during the acute stage, and resort to secondary excision at a later period. Arrow Wounds of the Head.—If an arrow strikes the calvaria at right angles, it will penetrate, provided that it has not lost its momentum,— the danger to the patient depending upon the depth of penetration and the locality of the wound. If one of the large sinuses or the important parts of the brain be injured, immediate death may follow. So perished Lieutenant Maxwell, of the Second U. S. Infantry, by an arrow wound of the superior longitudinal sinus. There are numerous specimens in the Army Medical Museum showing arrow wounds of the calvaria. In specimen No. 5644, represented by Fig. 225, the arrow went through the thickest part of the