(447) VENEREAL DISEASES: SYPHILIS. BY ARTHUR VAN HARLINGEN, M.D., CHIEF OF THE SKIN CLINIQUE, HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA ; CONSULTING PHYSICIAN TO THE DISPENSARY FOR SKIN DISEASES, PHILADELPHIA. History of Syphilis. The origin of Syphilis1 is involved in obscurity. Whether the disease has everywhere and at all times existed, or whether it has originated at one period or another de novo, are questions which, in spite of the vast amount of laborious erudition which has been brought to bear with a view to their solution, cannot at present be regarded as satisfactorily answered.2 Our earliest positive knowledge of the disease dates to the year 1495, at which time it appeared, of a malignant type and epidemic in character, in the armies of France, led by Charles VIII. against the kingdom of Naples. The disease not only attacked the invaders but also the defenders of the Italian kingdom, and almost simultaneously overran the whole of Europe. The earlier writers on syphilis differentiated it with accuracy from the other venereal affections, but later authors confounded the various diseases due to sexual intercourse, until, at the end of the last century, confusion everywhere prevailed.3 The identity of gonorrhoea with syphilis was, however, denied even in the last century by Astruc, Balfour, and Benjamin Bell, but John Hunter, who published his work on venereal in 1786, when at the height of his great reputation, maintained this identity, and taught that the only difference between the two diseases depended upon the nature of the surface to which the poison was applied; that it caused ulceration when it acted upon a cutaneous surface, but only a purulent discharge, without breach of continuity, when applied to a mucous membrane; and that the morbid secretion in either case might give rise to one or the other set of symptoms according to the struc- 1 As the limits of an article like the present, preclude the full discussion of many points, and necessitate the concise treatment of nearly all subjects included, I have made numerous refer- ences through the text to monographs and papers which contain a fuller exposition, or which take different views, of disputed questions. The reader desirous of working out any particular topic will find in the abstracts of current literature published in the Archives of Dermatology, a complete bibliography of syphilis during the past seven years, with an epitome of the more im- portant papers. 4 The best recent works on the history of syphilis are, Hirsch (Handbuch der historische- geographisclien Pathologie, 1860-4), and Haeser (Geschichte der epidemischen Krankheiten zweite Auflage, Jena, 1853 und 1865), in favor of the ancient origin of syphilis, and Geigel (Geschichte, Pathologie und Therapie der Syphilis, Wurzburg, 1867) against it. An excellent and full summary is contained in Lancereaux’s Traite historique et pratique de la Syphilis, 2me §d. Paris, 1874. 3 See Bassereau, Affections de la Peau symptomatiques de la Syphilis. Paris, 1852. A book well worthy of the title “ epoch making,” and one of the most important works ever written upon syphilis.