SYPHILIS. 534 Astringent and sedative sprays may likewise be employed. Treatment, to be effectual, must be timely and thorough.1 Lungs.—Two syphilitic affections of the lungs are commonly described, diffuse or interstiticd pneumonitis, and circumscribed, or gummatous pneumonitis. Diffuse pneumonitis may he situated in either the superior, middle, or lower lobes, without, however, invading any considerable portion of tissue. The affected portion of the lung is firm, hard, elastic, friable, impermeable to air, and, consequently, non-crepitant. Circumscribed pneumonitis, which is rather less rare than the diffuse variety, is characterized by the formation of gummy deposits in the lung tissue at one or more points, without any particular locality of predilection. When, however, the gummy tumor is found in the upper lobe, it is at its base rather than at its apex, contrary to what occurs in the case of tubercular deposits. Gummy tumors of the lung are generally firm, smooth, and circumscribed by indurated fibrous tissue; they undergo necrosis at an early date, with fatty or cheesy degeneration beginning at the centre of the nodule. Subsequently absorption may occur, partially or entirely, but more commonly the softened gummatous matter is evacuated by the bronchial passages, leaving a cavity circumscribed by fibrous tissue. Cicatrization may then take place. The symptoms of syphilis of the lung are not characteristic in any way, and the affection is therefore very difficult of recognition. The diagnosis must depend, to a very considerable degree, upon the history of the case and upon the concomitant symptoms. At the same time, there are certain symptoms manifested which may indicate, in a doubtful case, the presence of a syphilitic lesion. For example, a certain degree of dulness on percussion, with a blowing sound and without febrile reaction, the symptom being limited to one of the lower lobes or to the middle lobe, in a cachectic indi- vidual the apices of whose lungs are intact while his liver is diseased, con- stitutes a strong presumption in favor of a syphilitic pulmonary affection. The sudden appearance of abundant sputa, and the seat of alteration being limited in extent, and particularly confined to one side of the thorax alone, are circumstances which likewise aid in the diagnosis. Tuberculous disease of the lung, which is most likely to be confounded with the affection under consideration, is marked not only by a more rapid evolution and more ex- tensive involvement of the organ, but chiefly by making its onset in the apices of the lungs. When, however, the syphilitic lesion happens to occur in the same part, the diagnosis becomes extremely difficult, even to the skilled clin- ician. The prognosis of lung syphilis is serious, not as much because of the severity of the lesions themselves, as because they are ordinarily accompanied by other visceral lesions, and because they usually occur at an advanced stage of syphilis, when the system is more or less broken down by the dis- ease. The syphilitic phthisis and asthma of some writers are not, it should be here remarked, independent affections, but are in reality symptoms of the two forms of syphilitic lung disease described, and particularly of the ulcer- ation and stenosis which sometimes occur. The relationship between syphilis and tuberculosis of the lung has sometimes been the subject of discussion, but although the facts in our possession do not at present war- 1 See Cohen, Diseases of the Throat and Nasal Passages, New York, 1879 ; and the article on Injuries and Diseases of the Throat in Vol. V. of the present work. Also Trelat, De la Trache- otomie dans les Lesions Syphilitiques des Voies Respiratoires (Gaz. Hebdom., 1869, Nos. 17, 18, et 19).