618 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. an accumulation of pigment in granular form about the vessels. The seba- ceous glands are often enlarged, and their mouths plugged or obstructed, so that they project above the surface of the skin in the form of wart-like ele- vations when the overlying epidermal scales are removed. The growths differ, therefore, from the true wart, in the natural condition of the cutaneous papillae, the mass of the excrescences being composed of horny epithelial cells more or less pigmented. When fully developed they may be a third or half an inch in diameter, and they have generally a flat, surface. They may occur singly or in considerable numbers, even upon the face or hands, and they give to these parts a peculiar appearance, suggesting, in connection with the age of the patient at which they attain their fullest development, the corresponding tegumentary changes in the bark of an old tree. They rarely appear before the age of fifty, and are seldom very conspicuous before that of sixty-five or seventy. They are much less likely to develop upon persons who have kept their sebaceous glands and cuticle in proper order through life, by sufficient use of soap, than upon those who have neglected this pre- caution. When very prominent, they are easily knocked off, so that the hands especially often present excoriated, bleeding surfaces when the growths upon them are numerous. The scales, when reproduced, are then more or less discolored also by the admixture of blood pigment. The prognosis in the case of such simple collections of epidermal scales would naturally seem to be most favorable, and so it is if treatment be re- sorted to in good time; but the most simple changes in the cutaneous tissues of the face, in old people, are always to be held under suspicion. A wart or mole which has existed through life, a more recent accumulation of sebaceous ma- terial or of hardened scales, may eventually be transformed into epitheliomatous disease. So this affection is a very common starting-point of this form of cancer. The transition from this simple epidermal hypertrophy to the more serious new-growth, is unmarked by any striking change in the condition of the part. The patient’s attention is finally attracted to the. fact that the wart is not as firmly fixed as formerly, or that the tissues beneath are softer or more boggy when it is pressed upon, or that instead of having a covering of dry scales, it is becoming a crust or scab, or that this is enlarging at a more rapid rate, or that the part is no longer without sensation. Seeking professional advice, on these accounts, he is told that the disease is no longer the harmless disfigure- ment which he has so long accustomed himself to, but an epithelioma. Such is the final history of keratosis senilis in many cases; such the beginning of a large proportion of superficial cancers of the face in old people. Treatment.—In the earliest stages of this affection, it will be sufficient to wash the parts daily with soap and water, to keep under restraint the ten- dency to accumulation of epidermal cells. Generally the use of a little sweet oil, rubbed into the patch and allowed to remain for a few minutes before applying the soap, will make its removal easier. When the growths are thicker and firmer, and when there is much pigment change, it is well to use upon them, overnight, some fatty material like lard or diachylon ointment, in the form of a plaster, and to rub into them in the morning, on a piece of flannel cloth, some of the strong soaps, like domestic soft soap, or sapo viridis, or their solutions in alcohol. Water is next to be rubbed in until a thorough lather is made, which is then to be washed off. Should any excoriations thus be produced, they may be protected by a patch of diachylon ointment until healed. In this way the ordinary growths may be gradually thinned and made to disappear, but the parts will always require extra care and washing subsequently. If epidermal masses are unusually prominent, or if the seba- ceous glands are involved to any great degree, severer measures are called for. Concentrated nitric acid may be bored into the underlying tissues upon