76 THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. Fig. 220. discharge to escape from all parts of the wound, circular holes are cut in the sides of the tube, at intervals, the diameter of each hole being about one- third of the circumference of the tube. To prevent the orifice of the tube from becoming displaced, loops of carbolized silk, knotted at the end, are passed through the outer part of the tube, and ‘the knots, lying between the skin and the dressing, prevent the orifice of the tube from becoming displaced. Should there be a great tendency for the tube to slip in, the loops of silk may be filled with wet carbolic gauze. The orifices of the tubes are generally placed.at the most dependent part of the wound, but this is not essential. For as long as there is a free opening for the exit of the discharge, it may sim- ply be allowed to well out, because the discharge is unirritating, and, therefore, the quantity filling up the tube does no harm; at the same time, where possible, it is well to have a dependent opening. The chief point to be observed in determining the position of the orifice of the drainage tube, is to have it as far removed as possible from the edge of the dressing. Thus, in an operation for inguinal hernia, the orifice of the tube is not placed at the most dependent part, near the penis, because there would be very little space for overlapping of the dressing, but it is arranged at the uppermost angle of the wound, as far away as possible from sources of putrefaction. These drainage tubes are always kept ready for use, in a vessel containing 1-20 carbolic lotion. When a drainage tube is removed finally from a wound, it is washed in carbolic lotion, placed in the jar with the other tubes, and is then ready for use when re- quired for another case. It is well to leave a tube undisturbed for three days after an operation. If it be taken out sooner, there will often be difficulty in reintroducing it, but by the third day the tissues will have become condensed, and the tube will be lying in a comparatively firm channel, which will not collapse when the tube is removed. When it is taken out, it is washed in the solution, and, if it projected from the wound, a piece corresponding in length to the projecting portion is clipped off from the inner end, and the tube is then reintroduced. Frequently, on the third day, a smaller and shorter tube may be used. .No definite rule can be given as to the best time for dispensing with the tube altogether. When the discharge is very little, and when the channel is com- paratively straight, and not likely to become obstructed, the tube may be removed. This must, however, in the main be a matter of experience. Drainage by capillarity was first tried by Mr. John Chiene, of Edinburgh. He combines with it the principle of using absorbable drains. The material which he employs is catgut; several threads are brought out at a part of the wound, and the fluid flows out in the intervals between the threads. By using catgut he also avoids the necessity of removing the material em- ployed for drainage, because the catgut becomes absorbed in a few days. Mr. Chiene stitches the centre of a skein of catgut to the deepest part of the •wound by means of a catgut stitch, so that the drain cannot become displaced. He then breaks up the skein into bundles of six or eight threads each, and brings these out at various points along the line of incision. In a few days, the