DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 688 rized, according to Dr. Ord, by a remarkable decrease in the animal heat. In one recorded case, the temperature was only 77° F. Under the microscope, all the elements of the areolar tissue, including the fibres, cells, and “ interstitial mucous substance,’’ are very much increased. These changes are not confined to the integument or subcutaneous cellular tissue, but are also found in the arteries and internal organs. Treatment.—Iodine, iron, and cod-liver oil have been recommended, and tried with little or no benefit. On theoretical grounds I should recommend Russian baths, frequent friction of the surface, electricity, and very active exercise in the open air. Atrophy of the Cellular Tissue. Atrophy of the cellular tissue, though sometimes combined with progres- sive muscular atrophy, generally occurs as an independent disease. In the greater number of cases it arises from the prolonged irritation of a nerve or nerves. It occurs most frequently in the face and lower extremities. Brown-Sequard mentions a case which came under his notice in Boston, where atrophy of one side of the face was preceded by convulsive movements of the muscles on the affected side; the disease was ascribed to irritation of the dental nerves. Atrophy of the cellular tissue on one side of the face has also been caused by irritation of the facial nerve. Schott and Romberg have called this variety of the disease facial trophoneurosis. It is as rare as other forms of the affection. It is probable that the wasting of a limb which has been kept for a length of time on splints, or which has been prevented by disease from doing its work, arises from atrophy of the cellular tissue as well as from atrophy of the mus- cles and absorption of fat. Treatment.—If the cause of the disease can be reached, it must be removed if possible; the diseased part should be frequently sprayed with cold water, and rubbed dry, and the induced current applied daily to the nerves until some benefit is obtained. Uux vomica and cod-liver oil are useful as internal remedies. Parasites of the Cellular Tissue. The parasites usually found in the subcutaneous cellular tissue are the Cysticercus cellulosa, the Guinea worm, known also as the Dracumculus and Filaria Medinensis, and the Sand flea, or Pulex penetrans. Cysticercus Cellulosa.—This parasite is found usually in the cellular tissue between the muscles; less frequently it occupies the meshes of the subcutaneous cellular tisue. It is occasionally seen in the delicate areolar tissue, under the conjunctiva, in the aqueous and vitreous humors, and also in some of the internal organs. It is a species of hydatid, an undeveloped taenia solium. It consists of a small vesicle, about two lines in diameter, in which the embryonic worm is supported. It is not apt to give any particular mani- festation of its presence while in the subcutaneous or inter-muscular cellular tissues. Even in the delicate sub-conjunctival layer, it merely excites slight conjunctivitis. It is only when the aqueous and vitreous humors, or some of the internal organs, are invaded, that any danger arises from its presence. Filaria Medinensis.—The Filaria Medinensis, or common Guinea worm, infests countries south of the equator. Rarely is it seen in temperate climes,