595 SCHERLIEVO OR FIUME. 3 Craigie, op. cit., p. 696. 7 Ibid. affection. Wills1 speaks of the disease as originating in the form of condylo- mata or tubercles, which may ulcerate; the latter manifestations of the dis- ease are confined to the skin and hones. Skae2 reports an epidemic of condy- lomata under his own observation, which he considered identical with sib- bens; it was characterized by the appearance of whitish or yellowish elevated patches on the mucous membranes of the mouth, genitals, and anus. The most frequent seats of the eruption of sibbens seem to have been the tongue, palate, lips, cheeks, and genital organs. The disease was contagious, and was communicated by coitus, or by using the same eating and drinking utensils. Some authorities have considered this disease to be identical with syphilis; among these maybe mentioned Adams,3 Berkeley Hill, Lancereaux, and Hill4 * of Dumfries. On the other hand, Skae and Gilchrist believed it to he a distinct affection. The treatment of sibbens consisted in the exhibition of mercury, and in the application of astringents to the condylomata and ulcers. Radesyge or Radzyge is a disease occurring on the sea-coast districts of Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Greenland, and first noticed about the year 1710. “ It is a disease beginning with fever and catarrhal symptoms, more or less violent, and terminating in the eruption of papules and tubercles on the skin, and patches on the mucous membrane of the nose and throat; these may go on to ulceration ; the pa- tient may suffer from wandering pains in the joints resembling rheumatism, which are aggravated at night.”* Charlton6 describes radesyge as a disease chiefly characterized by ulcera- tions of the nose, mouth, and fauces, which considerably resemble the ulcera- tions of syphilis. The palate and nasal bones are in some cases destroyed. The patients complain of burning pain, and perspire freely; hectic and colliquative diarrhoea set in, and frequently cause a fatal termination of the case. The disease is said to be contagious through the perspiration, saliva, and discharges from the sores. The cold, damp, and inclement weather of the districts where it prevails, the poor quality of the food, consisting princi- pally of oily fishes, and the imperfect ventilation of the dwellings, are impor- tant elements in its production and spread. Hubener,7 Hiinfeld, Struve, Craigie, and Lancereaux believe that this disease is identical with syphilis, and mention the affections of the mucous membrane, mouth, skin, and bones in confirmation of their opinion; Charlton, on the other hand, considers it a distinct affection. Some authorities are disposed to consider it a form of leprosy. Treatment.—-Struve8 speaks highly of the employment of corrosive subli- mate combined with sarsaparilla or sassafras, and believes that cleanliness, good food, and the use of flannel clothing, are important elements in the cure of the disease; as a local application to the ulcers, he recommends corrosive sublimate and lime-water, or yellow wash. Scherlievo or Fiume.—This was an endemic disease which existed on the coasts of Illyria, Dalmatia, and Croatia, during the last century. The disease 1 Edinburgh Med. Journ., 1844, page 282. 2 Skae, Ibid. p. 615. 3 Observations on Morbid Poisons, London, 1807. 4 Cases in Surgery, Edinburgh, 1772. 6 Craigie, Practice of Physic, vol. i. p. 690. 6 Edinburgh Med. Journ., vol. xlviii. p. 101.