CLASSIFICATION AND SYMPTOMS OF BURNS. 227 mil mucous membrane and kidneys, may become congested or inflamed. The period of inflammation extends from the occurrence of reaction to the begin- ning of the period of exhaustion, during which time the dead or devitalized tissues are being thrown otf by suppurative action. The exhaustion incident to suppuration is sometimes aggravated by venous or arterial hemorrhages. During this period the kidneys, the intestinal canal, and the nerve centres are liable to irritative or inflammatory changes. The renal changes indeed are constant. In all cases of burns and scalds of the second or third degrees, involving any considerable extent of surface, where marked constitutional dis- turbance exists, the kidneys become congested or inflamed, and albuminuria is produced. The early presence of albumen in the urine has long been recognized, but not so generally as might have been expected, for even quite recently systematic articles have appeared on the subject, supposed to cover the entire question, without a word bearing upon this important pathological change. During the year 1880 a number of examinations were made for me at the Pennsylvania Hospital, with great care, by the resident physician, Dr. Henry M. Wetherill, in a large number of cases (including those already referred to), and especially in the cases of scalding from the May’srLanding disaster; and, as a result, albumen was found in every instance, except in those of the most trivial character. Albumen was observed in some cases as a mere ring, with nitric acid, while in the fatal cases it often amounted to two-thirds of the bulk of the fluid. A careful daily examination of the temperature in.all the cases was made, and it was found that, in all those burns or scalds of the first degree in which no variation from normal temperature occurred, no albumen was discovered; but that in injuries of the second or third degrees when a temperature of 101|° or 102° F. was reached, albumen was invariably present. With the graver and fatal cases, with a temperature of 104° or 105° F., or higher, the amount of albumen was correspondingly increased. In thirteen cases, in the hospital at one time, a daily examination was made of the tem- perature and urine: eleven showed albumen; in the two cases in which it was absent the injuries were trivial and very superficial. In one of these cases, the patient was in the hospital but four days, in the other, ten days, and in both the patients were quite well when discharged. . Of the eleven cases which showed albumen, five were cases of extensive burn, four of which ended in death and only one in recovery ; of the remaining number, six were cases of merely superficial burn, involving the face, neck, hands, and shoul- ders. All of these terminated in recovery but one, and in that case the fatal issue was caused by inflammation of the chest and air-passages, due to the inhalation of steam. In these eleven cases of burn with albuminous urine, the temperature was no higher than 99° F. on admission; in four instances, when the temperature reached 101° F., albumen was found; in each case, when the temperature reached 102° F., the amount of albumen was marked; and, as the temperature increased, so likewise the quantity of albumen in- creased, and the specific gravity lessened. In one case of extensive general burns in a pregnant woman, nearly at full term, the temperature, upon admission, was 99° F., and the urine was albuminous (as frequently occurs in the condition of pregnancy) ; within forty-eight hours the temperature ran up to 105° F., while the specific gravity of the urine fell to 1006, being heavily charged with albumen, but without casts. Death occurred on the fourth day, the temperature being then 105.5° F. On the second day after the injury, the patient was delivered of a dead infant, the interesting fact being noted, that the child was, upon the surface of its body, apparently blistered and burned in extent and in places almost exactly corre- sponding to the injuries of the mother.1 Hunt, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1881, p. 186.