VULVITIS. 391 agencies, any one of which, whether a purulent secretion from the male urethra, the use of violence, inordinate masturbation, etc., is capable of ex- citing in these parts a mucous inflammation whose characters are always practically the same whatever its etiology, the distinction between “ simple” and “gonorrhoeal” vulvitis or vaginitis being a purely imaginary one. Even here, however, inflammatory troubles are much less frequently met with than is urethritis in the male, because— (1) The vulva and vagina are protected by a membrane, thick, non-ab- sorbent, usually well lubricated by the natural secretions of the parts, and often rendered extremely insensitive by continual friction. (2) There are to be found in men almost none of the chronic discharges which are so common in women, and which cause the majority of eases of masculine gonorrhoea. (3) It is almost impossible for a man with an acute urethritis, that is in the most contagious stage of the disorder, to have connection, the pain pro- duced by erection being in itself a sufficient preventive. This is not true of women to anything like the same extent, prostitutes especially often plying their trade in disregard of the comparatively moderate pain of even an acute vaginitis. (4) The organs of the female participate less actively and less completely in the physiological congestion of coitus—a powerful predisposing cause of inflammation.1 Vulvitis. Causes.—Vulvitis may be produced in any of the ways mentioned, may be secondary to a vaginitis, may be due to worms, to the secretions of mu- cous patches, to uncleanliness and the accumulation of sebaceous matter, to the application of fatty ointments which have become rancid and irritating, to masturbation, to criminal violence, or to any other traumatic or infective cause. It is sometimes seen to arise spontaneously in infants during denti- tion, and is said, by Dupuytren, who cites cases in proof, to lie occasionally epidemic among very young children. In either of these cases, the characters of the inflammation are in all respects indistinguishable from those of a vulvitis caused by purulent infection, an important medico-legal point which should never be lost sight of when, in such instances, suspicion points towards any particular individual as a possible source of contagion. Vulvitis produced by masturbation is said to affect chiefly the clitoris; vulvitis caused by attempts at rape, the lower portions of the labia and the fourchette. This distinction, if it he of any value, can only apply to cases seen upon the first development of the disease, as, at a later period, the portions of the vulva originally unaffected are almost certain to be involved. Symptoms.—However caused, vulvitis begins with an itching sensation and a feeling of heat and burning, soon followed by tumefaction of the parts, Avhich are bathed in a secretion, at first muco-purulent, then thick, yellowish or greenish, acrid and offensive. If the parts be inspected at this time, a day or two after the onset of the disease, the labia will be found red, abraded, and excoriated ; and the nymphie sometimes swollen so as to occlude almost completely the entrance to the vagina. The parts are sensitive to pressure, and painful upon motion, so that in severe cases, the only position in which comfort can be obtained is upon the back with the knees widely separated. The vulva is often surrounded by an area of congestion which extends beyond 1 See Jullien, op. cit., p. 255.