187 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. of the lung may occur without associated fracture, the missile entering through an intercostal space. Still more rarely, in an apparently external seton wound, the ball may cut the serous membrane for a considerable dis- tance in its passage between two ribs. In the non-fatal cases of entrance, with or without lodgment, it is usually the outer surface, or the thin edge, of the lung that is wounded, though exceptionally the shot may pass through the thickness of the organ, or may even be buried close to its root. This last form of injury is generally followed by death from hemorrhage; almost certainly so unless the missile be of small size. Occasionally a bullet, after wounding the pleura, runs over the lung for a variable distance, to be either deflected internally, or to emerge through a rib or an intercostal space. Very rarely, if ever, does a rifle-ball pass from side to side through both lungs, and the patient recover. A lodged bullet, if the wounded individual lives, is very apt to become en- capsulated, though at times it may be found in an abscess cavity, or may enter a bronchial tube, and be coughed up; or the oesophagus, and pass downwards or be ejected through the mouth ; or, if superficially placed, it may so work its way externally as to make it practicable for it to be readily removed ; or, adhesions not preventing, it may drop down in the pleural sac, where it may either remain free, rolling about upon the diaphragm, or, which is more pro- bable, may rest in the postero-internal angle. A spiculum of bone is more likely to cause the formation of an abscess, and may in this way, or by ulce- ration, find entrance into a bronchial tube ; though it may, especially if small, remain innocuous in the lung tissue either with or without capsular invest- ment. Penetration may occur without lung wound, the missile damaging the pericardium or heart, or lodging in the mediastinum, or even passing directly through without injuring any important structure. In a remarkable case reported by E. S. Cooper, in which, however, the lung was injured, an iorn breech-pin was lodged “beneath the heart, upon the vertebral column, just to the right of the descending aorta,” from which place it was successfully removed seventy-four days later. During the Ashantee war, in 1873, there died of dysentery an English naval officer who, in 1860, in New Zealand, had been wounded in the right breast, the resulting symptoms being so slight as to make it very doubtful if penetration had occurred. Upon -post-mortem examination, there were found a cicatrix above the right nipple; evidences of damage to the fourth rib near its cartilaginous junction ; and an encysted round ball, about half an inch in diameter, lying “ outside the pericardium, above the right ventricle, in the triangular interspace between the aorta and the pulmonary artery.” Hernia of the lung is very rare, and, when it does occ r, is almost always a primary complication, though it may appear at a later period in consequence of the feeble resistance offered by a cicatrix. When the missile passes through the seventh, eighth, or ninth intercostal space, especially the latter, and when the diaphragm is wounded, particularly on the left side, omental hernia, or even visceral protrusion, may result. If the diaphragm is strongly arched at the time of injury, it may be wounded in two places, and herniie may occur through both. When the protrusion is recent, and the presence or absence of crepitation in the tumor can be readily and certainly determined, it is easy to distinguish between a pneumocele and an epiplocele, but at a later period, after inflammation and strangulation have occurred, a differential diagnosis cannot usually be made. As the result of the injury of the lung, circumscribed inflammation may be expected to occur along the track of the ball; but ordi- nary ■pneumonia is rarely developed—never as the direct consequence of the traumatism alone. The inflammation of the pleura may be limited and pro- tective (and in this sense only is it true,as declared by Mouat, that “the inevi- table result of a wound of the lung is pleurisy”), or, as is often the case, may