DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 682 . is seldom called for. Incisions should not be made, moreover, for obvious reasons, in these cases, until pus forms and is plainly perceptible; then as small an incision as is compatible with free drainage should be made, and the abscess washed out in the usual manner. The cold-water dressings may be continued throughout the whole course of the disease. The treatment of the perineal variety of peri-urethral cellulitis is the same as advised in ischio-rectal cellulitis, viz., leeches and cathartics to cut short the inflammation, and early incisions through the dense fascia into the inflam- matory swelling, in order to insure the escape of pus externally and save the urethra from perforation. Half a dozen leeches should be applied over the perineum, followed by hot applications, to promote bleeding and absorption. If the patient is anaemic, both leeches and cathartics may be dispensed with. The incision should be made over the centre of the swelling, whether that centre occupies the median line of the perineum, or is situated at some distance from it. If the urethral wall has already been perforated, it is well to find the opening, and incise the urethra above and below the perforation. To incise the urethra in the median line at a distance from the false passage is not good surgery. By including the ulcerated opening in the incision, a much more rapid cure will be effected, and the continuance of a urethral fis- tula probably prevented. If any strictures exist in the canal, they should be cut or dilated. The antiseptic washes previously described are also indicated here under all circumstances. Peri-Phalangeal Cellulitis, sometimes called paronychia, felon, and whitlow, is an exceedingly common form of inflammation. It may be located in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in the fascia that retains the ten- dons in position, or in the cellular tissue connected with the periosteum and bone. It is probable that many of the more severe forms of the disease ori- ginate in the periosteum. Occasionally the inflammation is confined to the cellular tissue around the margin of the nail, and in common parlance is known as a “run-around.” This is the mildest form of peri-phalangeal cel- lulitis, and is rarely followed by serious injury to the bone or ligamentous structures. The principal cause of peri-phalangeal cellulitis is injury of the affected member, when the blood of the patient is impoverished from poor diet, bad air, dissipation, etc. It usually commences on the palmar aspect of the finger, with a sharp or intense pain, and slight swelling of the pulp of the finger. The pain increases in intensity, and the swelling extends to the sides and back of the phalanx. The whole surface of the inflamed part be- comes exceedingly tense, hard, and painful on pressure. After the third or fourth day the pain assumes a throbbing character, and is almost unbearable. The patient can neither rest nor sleep; there is very little febrile excitement, the temperature seldom rising more than a degree, and the pulse often re- maining normal throughout the disease. Pus forms in five or six days from the commencement of the attack; if allowed to burrow under the tight fibrous bands which cross the tendons, it soon destroys the periosteum and leads to necrosis of the bone. In virulent cases the morbid process rapidly extends, in- volving successively the cellular tissue of the hand and arm, destroying such an amount of tissue as to permanently impair the usefulness of the whole limb, and perhaps causing a fatal termination. Very many cases of peri-pha- langeal cellulitis result in caries or necrosis of the phalanx, but such results generally arise from neglect on the part of the patient or surgeon. Treatment.—For a day or two,a hot linseed-meal poultice, changed frequently, does excellent service. If the patient is seen three or four days subsequent to the beginning of the inflammation, the first thing to be done is to cut down through all the inflamed tissues, on the palmar aspect, to the bone. A simple