532 SYPHILIS. the mucous membrane, quite a different symptom from the oedema some- times accompanying erythema. Operative interference is occasionally called for to relieve accompanying dyspnoea.1 Chronic ulcers and occasionally vege- tations are found in connection with this form of inflammation, the favorite seat of vegetations being at the insertion of the inferior vocal cords. The deep ulcerations of laryngeal syphilis may occur by extension from the pharynx, or by degeneration of gummatous deposit. They are insidious, and much destruction may occur in the epiglottis, the ligaments, and the vocal cords, without very marked symptoms. These ulcers, which present a similar appearance to those occurring on other mucous membranes, are sometimes mistaken for cancer; but in this disease the tonsils and submaxillary glands are apt to be affected at an early period with infiltration. Pain, sometimes extreme, is a symptom of cancer, but is absent in syphilis until the parts have been extensively destroyed. Gummy tumors of the larynx are often single, and may attain a large size; but they may also be small and multiple. They generally tend to ulceration. A fatal termination may ensue in the course of these lesions from impediment to respiration, due to the size of the tumor, or to an acute oedema of the larynx. Tiirck has recorded a case of death from hemorrhage. Perichondritis usually occurs from extension of an inflammatory or ulcera- tive process from the mucous and submucous tissues. The cartilage itself may be involved, in which case it is said that crepitation can be observed on palpation. Caries, or true necrosis, when ossification of the cartilage has taken place, is a common sequel of invasion of the perichondrium by inflammation or gum- matous ulceration. Fragments of sequestrum may be expectorated, or, lodging in the air passages, may cause alarming or even fatal dyspnoea. Mauriac gives an account of a peculiar phlegmonous inflammation of the parts sur- rounding the larynx, secondary to the invasion and death of the cartilage. Syphilitic aphonia has been observed from time to time. Its cause, when occurring in the earlier stages of syphilis, has, I believe, not yet been pointed out; but Simyan and Paget describe a paralysis of the vocal cords which has been observed in the later stages of syphilis. It is unilateral, and yields to specific medication.2 Trachea and Bronchi.—The syphilitic affections of the trachea and bronchi are naturally closely analogous to those of the larynx. The lower portion of the trachea is the usual seat of the disease. The lesions are com- monly developed in the submucous tissue rather than in the mucous mem- brane itself; they consist either of diffuse infiltration into the submucous 1 See the account of a case in which tracheotomy was performed four times in five years. Trans. Clin. Soc., vol. x., 1877. 2 The following papers may be referred to for fuller details : Gerliardt und Roth, Ueber syph. Krankheiten des Kehlkopfes (Arch. f. path. Anat., Heft. xxii. 1861) ; Krisliaber, Contribution a l’etude des troubles resp. dans les Laryngopathies Syph. (Gaz. Hebd., 1878, Nos. 45-47) ; Elsberg, Syphilitic Memb. Occlusion of Rima Glottidis (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., 1874) ; P. Ferras, De la Laryngite Sypliilitique (These de Paris, 1874) ; Krisliaber et Mauriac, Des Laryngo- pathies Syph. pendant les premieres phases de la Syphilis, Paris, 1876; Whistler, The Early Manifestations of Syphilis in the Larynx (Med. Times and Gaz., 1878, Nos. 1473 to 1484) ; Simyan, Syphilis Laryngee Tertiaire (These de Paris, 1877) ; Mauriac, Sur les Laryngopathies Syph. Graves coinpliques de Phlegmon peri-laryngien, Paris, 1876 ; Simyan et Paget, Des Paralysies du Larynx (These de Paris, 1877) ; Dance, Eruptions du Larynx survenant dans la ptu-iode secondaire de la Syphilis, Paris, 1864 ; Trelat, Sur la Traclieotomie dans les lesions syphilitiques des Voies Respi- ratoires (Bull, de l’Acad. de M6d., Dec. 8, 1868) ; Bryant, Trans. Clin. Soc. London, vol. i. 1868, p. 127 ; H. L. Williams, St. Barthol. Hosp. Rep., 1869, p. 124; T. G. Wollaston, Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep., vol. iii., 1869, p. 20 ; Erichsen, Med. Times and Gaz., April 8, 1871 ; W. Stokes, Brit. Med. Jour., April 1, 1871.