147 FRACTURE FROM GUNSHOT INJURY. though rarely, it is true, be saved by such an operation. Amputation in continuity, except in slowly progressing cases, is of no benefit, the disease cpiickly re-appearing above the line of section. When the symptoms are less acute, and the patient has survived the dangers of the earlier weeks or months after the receipt of the injury, secondary disarticulation may be practised with strong probability of a successful result. A chronic osteo- myelitis—not likely to follow contusion, but not infrequently met with after gunshot fracture—may spontaneously terminate in the death of the affected part, removal of which will be soon followed by complete recovery from the injury; or it may slowly hut very surely go on to the involvement of the whole bone, necessitating amputation at the joint above. The progress of this form of the disease is at times exceedingly slow.1 If possible, infectious hone-inflammations should he prevented rather than treated, and it is to protection against the occurrence of these septic processes, and thereby against blood-poisoning, that methods of dressing must in the future be directed. “Listerism” has already been tried on a limited scale in these cases, and in civil practice it can, under favorable circumstances, be thoroughly carried out; but in military surgery, it must ordinarily, or at least often, he almost if not altogether impracticable. As far as can possi- bly be done, the parts should he kept quiet and clean, free drainage secured, over-crowding prevented, and abundant fresh air supplied. Fracture from Gunshot Injury. Of greatly more frequent occurrence than Gunshot Contusions of bone are Gunshot Fractures.2 These fractures may he simple (in only a few cases, and then almost always not directly produced by the impact of the projec- tile), or compound; they may also he classified as fissured, as comminuted—- sometimes extensively, with a variable amount of scattering of the fragments —as penetrating, as perforating, or as “ resecting"—the missile carrying away the entire thickness of the bone for a greater or less distance, with little or no associated splintering. The extent of damage done depends in great measure upon the size and velocity of the shot, and has been therefore found to be much greater in recent wars than formerly. In a comparatively few cases, round balls or pistol bullets or, yet more rarely, the modern, elongated rifle ball, has bored through a hone (if a long one, usually near an articulating ex- tremity) without producing any splintering,3 the osseous tissue being in part condensed, in part carried on into the neighboring soft structures. Penetra- tion with lodgment may occur, even (though but seldom) in a diaphysis, without other bone lesion. But in the great majority of cases, when a ball strikes a bone, it either splits it or shatters it according to the manner in which the force is applied. The conical bullet exerts a wedge-like action: striking an epiphysis, it may simply fissure it, the cracks extending “ per- pendicularly upwards and downwards without perforating the articular carti- lages. Such fissures are more or less frequent, especially when great force is applied, i. e., when the channel made by the shot is long.” 1 In a case under my care, in which, in October, 1880, I successfully amputated at the hip- joint, the operation was rendered necessary hy a gunshot fracture of the femur in its middle third, which had been received 33 years before in the battle of Molino del Rey, Mexico, in Sep- tember, 1847. 2 Of more than one hundred thousand (107,898) wounds summed up by S. W. Gross, nearly ten per cent. (9.64) were fractures of long bones, including among these the clavicle and scapula. 3 Becher reports having seen a number of such cases, the wounds having been made by the chassepot bullet of 380 grs. weight.