GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 200 injuries of other kinds, may be in large amount, with corresponding exten- sive destruction of tissue, or in limited quantity, with resulting abscess and fistula. When the large intra-pelvic bloodvessels are primarily opened—and this is more likely to happen in civil than in military practice, the wounds being made at shorter range—speedy death generally occurs, and the same result is very likely to follow similar injuries of the gluteal and sciatic vessels at or near their points of emergence. Secondary hemorrhage from ulceration may occasionally—though, unfortunately, not very often—be controlled by pressure or ligation, and the patient saved. Treatment.—The treatment of external pelvic injuries is to be conducted on general principles: hemorrhage being controlled by compression or ligation; all foreign bodies, particularly detached bone-fragments, removed if possible ; drainage secured ; pus-collections'opened; and rest maintained. Sequestra are to be taken away as they become detached, and carious parts may often be advantageously removed with the gouge. When penetration has occurred, bullets, clothing, wadding, and spicula, driven in by the shot, are to be removed as they can be found. If the rectum has been wounded, much bene- fit will often result from free division of the sphincter, as recommended by Dupuytren. Extra-peritoneal effusions of urine are to be evacuated by perineal incisions, and a catheter should be carried through the urethra into the blad- der and there retained ; all abscesses are to be early and freely opened. When the vesical wound is so located that the urine escapes into the peritoneal cavity, death, as we have already seen, quickly takes place from peritonitis; and treatment by catheterization, with or without perineal section, cannot be expected, except by the merest good fortune, to avert the fatal result. Vincent has lately shown experimentally that recovery might be hoped for from laying open the abdomen and closing with sutures the wound in the bladder; and such an operation, together with, if necessary, the establishment of a connec- tion with the rectum near the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch, -would be certainly justifiable. When the scrotum has been contused, or only superficially torn, no special treatment is required; any resulting inflammatory or purulent collections should be opened early. A wounded testis, even if extensively lacerated, should not be removed, since a portion of the organ may be ultimately saved, and the danger to life from expectant measures is less than that from operation— 11.9 per cent, as against 18 per cent, in the cases treated during our war. When the penis has been wounded, treatment must be directed to the arrest- ation of hemorrhage, the prevention of urinary retention or extravasation, the preservation of every portion of the organ that can be saved, the con- trolling of the erections (which are, at times, excessively painful), and the correction, at a later period, of cicatricial incurvations arising from unilateral loss of substance. Hemorrhage, much more likely secondary than primary, is to be checked by ligation, if the dorsal artery has been divided, or, under other circumstances, by compression or the introduction of stitches, a catheter being kept in the urethra; or even by styptics. Whatever the part of the organ that is damaged, except when the wound involves only the skin, a soft catheter should for some days at least be kept in the bladder; and especially should this be done when the urethra lias been divided, if it is not, as occa- sionally happens, impossible to introduce the instrument. If urinary infil- tration occurs, it must be at once relieved by incisions. Retention, when catheterization cannot be effected, can always and safely be treated by supra- pubic aspiration. Amputation of the penis should not be performed, even if the organ has been almost completely cut through; for by the application of stitches the