358 GONORRIKEA. Urethral Catarrh. Cause : loss of tone and di- latation of capillaries of part. Prognosis: subsides with- out treatment. Expectant treatment. With bulbous bougie, ure- thra is found to be normal. Chronic Gonorrhiea. Persistence of low grade of inflammation. Circum- scribed congestion with small granulations. Requires local treatment. Treatment by local injec- tions. Point of sensitiveness, from which bougie brings pus. Gleet. Submucous deposit around urethra, interfering more or less with its calibre. If cause be not removed, almost certainly grows worse. Treatment by dilatation and injections. Point of moderate resist- ance. Seminal Plethora and Urethral Hyperesthesia. Before leaving the subject of the symptoms and complications of gonor- rhoea in the male, an occasional source of error on the part of both patient and physician must be alluded to. In some cases, treatment is unnecessarily prolonged, and much annoyance is caused by the acceptance, without investi- gation, of the testimony of the patient as to the existence of a discharge, lie will report that every morning, or perhaps only two or three mornings in the week, he discovers a drop of discharge at the meatus, which injec- tions, bougies, anti-blennorrhagics, and other methods of treatment are power- less to dispel. Before concluding that this is an evidence of chronic gonor- rhoea or of gleet, it would be well to inquire into the circumstances of the case. It should be remembered that patients suffering with acute gonorrhoea are compelled to make a sudden change in their sexual relations and habits. Previously, whether married or single, in the custom of indulging more or less regularly in sexual intercourse, they are at once absolutely cut off from this normal vent for seminal and other secretions. Superadded to this is the long-continued hypercemia of the entire genital apparatus, which tends to render such secretions more than usually abundant. Under these conditions, there is often produced a state of “ seminal plethora,” attended with certain symp- toms which are rather those of health than of disease, but which may give rise to mistakes of diagnosis. The enforced continence, the accumulation of the seminal fluids, the in- creased reflex excitability of the part, the handling, dressing, and injecting of the latter rendered necessary by the treatment, all combine to render noc- turnal erections and emissions more than usually frequent. Very often the latter attract notice in the customary manner by disturbing the patient, or may even be associated with a distinct lancinating pain in the lumbar spine; hut more commonly there will simply be an unusually firm, persistent erec- tion in the morning on first awaking. This will subside in a few moments, and then, on “stripping” the penis, the drop of “discharge” makes its appear- ance. This i» in many cases merely the result of a natural overflow of sem- inal and prostatic fluid ; is such as often appears at the end of the penis in healthy males after prolonged, ungratified, sexual excitement; and does not, of course, furnish any indication for treatment. Careful inquiry, the association of the symptoms with the preceding erection, its absence on the mornings when erections fail to occur, and finally the failure to find with the bulbous bougie either the submucous deposit of gleet or the sensitive granular spot of chronic gonorrhoea, will serve to establish the diagnosis. Such patients, when they are made to realize the true character of this phe- nomenon, should at the same time be guarded against the danger of falling,