a narrow bandage may be used Reduction of paraphimosis by Eddowes’s method. TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. 383 and prepuce with a slip of wet lint two inches wide, and extending a little in front of the glans, and then winding around the glans from before backward a piece of round elastic ligature. By the time the corona is reached, the glans will be reduced in size, and it will be often possible to slip the end of a grooved director, the bend of a hair-pin, or the edge of the thin flat handle of a small spoon—such as a salt- spoon— beneath the constricting band. Then withdrawing the ligature rapidly, the shrivelled glans may be pushed backward, and the prepuce drawn forward to its natural position. Tape or instead of the gum cord, but is not as effective. If the chief obstacle to reduction he the amount of oedema, it is proper to evacuate the serum by several minute punctures with an ex- ploring needle. "When the paraphimosis has been of longer duration, and an effusion of plastic lymph is present, more permanent compression may be required, and in that case the glans and foreskin should be “ strapped” with pieces of ad- hesive plaster one quarter of an inch in width and six inches in length, the extremities beginning and ending on the body of the penis, the strips passing over the glans so as to cover all portions but the meatus; in twenty-four hours reduction usually becomes possible. If not, the dressing should be removed. If all these means fail, we may divide the constriction on the dorsum of the penis by inserting beneath the prepuce a flattened sharp-pointed bistoury, and then turning its edge and cutting upward; or the stricture may be cut down upon from without inward, always remembering to look for it in the farrow which divides the mucous membrane from the integument, the first one behind the furrow of the cervix glandis. Follicular Abscess often opens spontaneously into the urethra, and re- quires no surgical interference. When the skin becomes thinned and dis- colored over such a swelling, it is well to incise it freely. I have never seen any necessity for enucleating the wall of the abscess, or for treating it other- wise than would be proper for a similar condition elsewhere. Peri-uretiiral Abscess should be evacuated more promptly, as soon in- deed as suppuration is established, as a spontaneous opening in these cases may be followed by urinary extravasation. In their earliest stages these abscesses may sometimes be aborted by the use of sedative lotions, with abso- lute rest in bed, moderate elevation of the organ, and free purgation. Leeches applied near them have never seemed to me to be of much benefit, and if applied directly over them usually aggravate the symptoms. Lymphangeitis rarely requires any special treatment. Evaporating and sedative lotions and.rest will usually relieve any pain which may be associ- ated with it. Bubo may be aborted by the use of pressure or iodine, or, if these fail, may Fig. 324.