AFFECTIONS OF THE SEBACEOUS GLANDS. 603 natural condition, but the scalp becomes denuded of hair when they attain any considerable prominence upon it, and may assume the condition of senile atrophy above them. Their growth is very slow, and they may exist for years, or a lifetime, without producing other inconvenience than that which arises from their size alone. When the cyst is removed by dissection from its enveloping tissues, its walls are found to be soft, thin, and fragile, when of recent formation, but much thickened when old, and sometimes permeated by calcareous deposits. The internal surface of the cyst is smooth, but has sometimes a villous appearance. The contents vary greatly in consistence and color. In the early stage, they are generally the retained sebaceous matters, resembling curds. At a later period they become, in character, more like epithelium in various states of transformation, mixed with fat and cholesterine (Cholesteatoma). Sometimes they undergo nearly complete liquefaction, or are honey-like in appearance (melicerous). Fine hairs are occasionally found in them, and calcareous matter. Rarely a horny epi- thelial growth starts up within the cyst, and may eventually be converted into a Cornu cutaneum. The contents are never hemorrhagic, as the walls are not vascular. The sebaceous cyst is liable to inflammation at times, without apparent cause. It may be converted rapidly into an abscess-like mass of suppuration, confined within its walls ; or the overlying integument may be- come purple, soften, and undergo perforation, and a fistula may thus be formed, through which extremely fetid pus may be discharged for a long time, in which case the underlying cranial bone may be found carious, or the protecting skin may slough extensively, leaving a mass of ulceration which may extend to the surrounding tissues and present a very malignant appearance. Although ordinarily of easy recognition, the sebaceous tumor in its later stages, especially when of considerable size, or when its walls have become thickened, may be confounded with more serious growths, as haema- toma or carcinoma. Treatment.—Sebaceous cysts may be removed by excision, or destroyed by caustics. Under ordinary conditions, or when of any considerable size, ex- tirpation by the knife is the proper method of treatment. The overlying skin should be put on the stretch and cut carefully through to the cyst wall, over the whole length of the tumor. By careful dissection, the cyst may then generally be removed entire. Should the walls be cut or ruptured acci- dentally, the contents should be evacuated by pressure, and every portion of the envelope dissected out with great care. The wound generally unites by first intention. [In excising sebaceous cysts from the region of the scalp, it is more convenient to transfix the base of the tumor with a slender bistoury, and then bisect the growth by cutting directly upwards. Unless it has been inflamed or ulcerated, the cyst wall is very loosely attached in this situation, and can usually be pulled out with forceps without the trouble of dissection.] The danger of erysipelas attendant upon all operations upon the scalp must, of course, be borne in mind when this is the seat of the tumor. It is on this account that some surgeons prefer to employ caustics upon this region, when the cyst does not exceed a pigeon’s egg in size. For this mode of treatment, caustic potassa, Vienna paste, or nitrate of silver, may be used. When the cyst is quite small, a pointed stick of nitrate of silver may be moistened and made to revolve gently upon its tip on the skin above the tumor, until it penetrates its tissues slightly. A small eschar is thus produced, which falls in a few days. The operation is then repeated, and the stick is made to enter the cyst, and to come in contact with the walls. The envelope may then be removed with fine forceps, after emptying the contents by pressure, and the cavity, in three or four days, closes by adhesion of its walls, and leaves an imperceptible cicatrix. Upon larger tumors, the Vienna paste may