WOUNDS. 84 of the absorbent kind, is then arranged about the tube, to absorb all fluids that escape, but not in any way to arrest their flow ; since to insert a drainage- tube, and then to smother up its oriflce, seems inconsistent practice. When the spray and gauze system (Listerism) is adopted, all the precautions essen- tial for security must be observed, the principle upon which this system is based being one of exclusion not only of air, but of all germs that may be floating in it, which germs are supposed to be the cause of suppuration and of the decomposition of organic fluids. Wet applications, and more particu- larly watery ones, are now seldom used, and cannot be recommended; since it is well known that by moisture, decomposition is encouraged. When they are employed they should be medicated; that is, they should contain some drug which has an influence in preventing or arresting decomposition, or in neutralizing the evil effects of the chemical changes which are sure to take place, either in the contused and devitalized injured tissues, or in the secreted or poured-out fluids, whether blood, serum, or pus. The best of these drugs are the chloride of zinc, carbolic acid, boracic acid, thymol, terebene, iodine, alcohol, the permanganate of potassium, and iodoform. On the Second Dressing of a Closed Wound. No fixed period can be named when the first dressing should be removed from, and a second applied to, a wound which is being treated with the view of obtaining healing by quick or primary adhesion. But this is certain; that no interference should be allowed under a week, unless there is some in- dication, either in the form of local discomfort or pain, or of some constitu- tional symptoms, such as an increase of temperature with febrile disturbance, to justify the act. In truth, to use a legal phrase, the surgeon should, in all cases, show cause why he should interfere, before he does so, for it is not to be denied that even with the gentlest and most skilled manipulation, there must of necessity be some interference with the reparative process; some slight tearing away of the new reparative material; some taking away of support where support is essential; or removal of local pressure where such is needed; in fact, there must always be some injurious influence upon the healing part, which should not be permitted without a compensating good effect. A wound treated for repair by primary adhesion, if let alone, will prob- ably, under favorable circumstances, heal within the week; and a large wound, such as that made in ovariotomy, in excision of the breast, or in amputation, will heal within two weeks under the best conditions. If it does not, it is because there is something wrong with the patient’s general condition, or something wrong in the wound, or more particularly its treatment; for the primary dressing of the wound should have been such as to render early inter- ference with it unnecessary. To recapitulate, (1) the edges and surfaces of the wound should be carefully adjusted and fixed together; (2) complete immobility of the injured part should be guaranteed by the judicious application of splints, pads, and band- ages ; (3) the limb or wounded part should be placed in the most comfortable position for the patient, as well as in that which is most favorable for repair; (4) due provision should be made for the effectual drainage of the wound, and care should be taken that the effect of drainage is not neutralized by any external application or dressing; and lastly, (5) such dressings or external coverings should be employed as will protect the wound from external injury, and guard against or neutralize the decomposition of such fluids as may be poured out. A wound, however large, dressed effectually on these principles, will probably not require dressing for a week, or at least not more than the