PROGNOSIS OF CHANCRE. 473 than these complications, however, and quite serious, are the interference with nutrition which may result from buccal chancres, and the hemorrhage which may occur in phagedsena. The difficulty in mastication and the pain caused by the passage of food, occurring particularly when the chancre is situated on the dorsum of the tongue, together, possibly, with the ingestion of septic discharges from the ulcerated surface, sometimes induce voluntary abstinence on the part of patients. As a result of this, gastric and amende disturbances may eventuate, dangerous not merely in themselves, but as diminishing the resistance of the organism to the assaults of the constitutional infection. As to hemorrhage, Ory1 cites the case of a young girl who had a chancre of the upper lip, which became phagedenic and destroyed a considerable por- tion of the lip. Hemorrhage occurred repeatedly from the affected part, so that the patient became exsanguinous, and fell fainting on the least exertion. Her life was preserved only by the most assiduous care, and convalescence was extremely slow. The question whether the benignity or malignity of an attack of syphilis depends upon the quality of the infective material in any given case, or upon the nature of the soil in which the seed has been sown, has often been dis- cussed. The first view, that of varying malignity in different virus, has one apparent fact in its favor—that is, the gradual diminution in the severity of syphilis since its first malignant epidemic occurrence in the fifteenth and six- teenth centuries. Syphilis at the present day is, in its earlier periods at least, a much milder disease than in former times. It has been asserted that this is due to the gradual attenuation of the poison in its transmission from gen- eration to generation; but I think it is quite as likely that improved hygiene and therapeutics have played the most important part in ameliorating the severity of the disease. Even at the present day, moreover, there are certain parts of the world, as Mexico and China, where malignant syphilis still shows itself. The other view, namely, that the severity of the disease in any given case depends upon the soil in which it is planted—that is, the constitution of the patient as influenced by hereditary or acquired infirmities of one kind or another, and by hygienic surroundings—has more clinical testimony in its favor. Jullien cites the case of a young woman who was contaminated by her husband just after confinement. The latter was suffering from a very slight attack of syphilis. The unfortunate wife, however, fared far otherwise. After an unusually short incubation, fifteen days, a chancre appeared which destroyed a large part of the vulva ; and towards the third month, in spite of energetic treatment, gummatous tumors appeared in various places. In less than a year the face had been destroyed by supervening phagedaenic ulcerations. Other cases might be cited, going to show that the severity of the disease depends upon the elaboration which the virus undergoes under the influence of the organism in which it has been implanted. The period of incubation is to some extent an index of the probable gravity of the affection in any given case. The less resistance the organism offers, the quicker the entrance of the virus—the briefer, in consequence, the period of incubation, and usually, also, the more malignant the subsequent symptoms. The character of the initial lesion, the chancre itself, is by many authorities regarded as indicative of the probable future course of the disease. Benign chancres, it is said, are followed by benign eruptions, and by non-suppurative lesions of the various tissues; pliagedeenic chancres by severe pustular syphilo- dermata and ulcerations, and, at a later period, by exostoses, necrosis, and caries. * 1 In liis Thesis, L’Etiologie des Sypliilides Malignes Precoces. Paris, 1876.