NEURALGIC OR IRRITABLE ULCERS. 279 Treatment.—In phagedaena the best food is indicated, with perhaps porter or ale ; sunlight and fresh air are indispensable ; iron and bark may be given, or the potassio-tartrate of iron, which is especially valuable in this condition. The part should be kept at rest, and the local applications should be warm, emollient, soothing, and slightly stimulating. A linseed poultice, moistened with a weak solution of sulphate of zinc, to which laudanum has been added, answers well. Such an ulcer, in a debilitated constitution, is apt to degene- rate into the next variety. Weak or (Edematous Ulcers. When the process of destructive ulceration has ceased, and granulations make their appearance, they are pale, flabby, easily broken, and apt to become infiltrated with serum; the discharge is a watery fluid containing few pus corpuscles, and but little fibrinous material. Such granulations are apt to become redundant and to overlap the parts already cicatrized, so that the forming epithelium does not readily extend over them. The appearance of such fungoid, weak, cedematous masses of granulation-tissue, protruding as they sometimes do through well-defined openings in the skin, may excite a suspicion of malignancy. This suspicion is, however, quickly dissipated by the touch, which shows that the granulations are exceedingly soft and vel- vety, easily depressed, and altogether unlike the firm, fungous masses which spring up in malignant disease; both, however, are usually devoid of sensi- bility. Such projecting masses are apt to be present in ulcers connected with joints and sheaths of tendons. If these dropsical granulations are subjected to pressure, they quickly die, and are replaced by others of the same char- acter. Treatment of (Edematous Ulcers.—In this type of ulcer, the general con- dition calls for a supporting treatment. Better blood and a more vigorous circulation, general and local, are needed, and we therefore prescribe fresh air, sunlight, good food, malt liquors, etc. Opium, in moderate doses, two or three times a day, sometimes acts well. The local dressings should be of a stimulating character. A solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to the ounce, may be brushed over the granulations once a day, or, if the granulations are much above the level of the surrounding skin, the solid stick may be passed lightly over them. A linen cloth no larger than the ulcer, thinly spread with resin cerate, should be applied; this may be covered with a cushion of absorbent cotton, extending an inch or so beyond the sore, and a bandage lightly applied to keep the dressing in position: this dressing may be allowed to remain until the absorbent cotton is saturated, but not longer. The final healing of such an ulcer depends greatly upon the patient’s general condi- tion, and every means for its improvement should be carefully sought. Neuralgic or Irritable Ulcers. Intense pain, or excessive sensibility, sometimes attaches to ulcers, but is not peculiar to any special condition of disintegration or repair. Pain is often associated with an inflamed condition of the part, wdiich precedes or accompanies disintegration, and is often provoked by irritating applications, such as stale or soured poultices ; or it may be dependent on disturbed diges- tion, constipation, or any intercurrent disease which renders the whole body more sensitive and irritable. It is most frequently present in nervous, anaemic,