7 TREATMENT OF CONTUSIONS. cases, cold water, or lotions containing spirit of camphor, tincture of arnica, or the hydrochlorate of ammonium, answer a good purpose. Three or four thicknesses of old linen or cotton cloth should be saturated with one of these lotions, and applied to the contused part. The cloth should be kept con- stantly wet. One of the best applications I have tried in such cases is a mix- ture of ecpial parts of whiskey and water. Lotions containing sugar of lead, sulphate of zinc, carbolic acid, acetic acid, vinegar, alum, or common salt, are also used. These applications not only prevent further effusion, but, acting as sorbefacients, encourage the absorbents to take up the blood and serum which has been poured out. Tincture of bryony has long been the favorite local application among pugilists for contusions received in their encounters. It is still used by these people, and is probably more efficacious than the pro- fession generally supposes. If some one of the larger vessels has been ruptured, and the subcutaneous hemorrhage threatens to be serious, pounded ice, in bladders or rubber bags, should he kept applied to the part. The effect of ice used in this way should be carefully watched, as the vitality of the injured portion is already low, and the depressing effect of cold carried too far may provoke sloughing which otherwise would not occur. In some contusions of the limbs, when the bones have been broken, joints involved, or important vessels injured, but when it is thought that the limb may be saved from amputation, cold, applied by suspending over the injured part a basket filled with ice, is a valuable agent in limiting and controlling inflammation. The contused limb should be laid in a simple fracture-box, the bottom of which is covered with a layer of bran from one to two inches in depth, or, which is better, fine sawdust; this should also be gently packed along the sides of the limb to give support to the broken bones. The limb should be carefully watched, and the basket of ice elevated or lowered, as the condition of the part may demand. This can be effected by attaching to the basket a cord, which should run through a pulley suspended from the ceiling, or any other convenient point. The in- jured part receives the dripping from the basket, and is kept continually bathed in the cold air which descends from the melting ice. The application of cold by any of the plans suggested prevents further extravasation, and limits the inflammation which, in severe cases, is sure to follow to a greater or less extent. In aggravated cases of contusion, when the effusion is very greats the cir- culation feeble, the temperature low, and the vitality of the part endangered, dry and warm applications are demanded. The contused part should then be surrounded with flannel or raw cotton, and this covered with oiled silk. Dry is better here than moist heat. After the extravasation has been arrested, and when the danger from inflammation has passed away, compression very gently applied by means of a bandage is often useful. It gives a comforting support to the part, relieves pain, and stimulates the absorbents to take up the etfused liquids. In slight cases compression may be used with advantage from the first. The formation of a “ bump” on a child’s head after a fall or blow on the forehead, is frequently prevented by the mother’s pressing the spot with a piece of ice or the handle of a spoon. The pressure arrests the subcutaneous hemorrhage, and diffuses the blood already poured out into the surrounding tissues, whence it can more readily be absorbed. Upon the same principle, when absorption is slow, and when there are no symptoms of inflammation present, rubbing and kneading the part hastens the process of cure. Writers on surgery generally tefich that no attempt should he made to draw off the extravasated bjood unless symptoms of suppuration are present. If