NATURE OP GONORRHOEA. 329 retained as a consequence of neglect, are much more likely to be purulent and contagious than in women who live a regular and well-ordered life, and who are careful about their personal condition. If these factors be duly considered, the escape of married men, the infec- tion of “ lovers,” the comparative harmlessness of prostitutes (who learn to attend to cleanliness as a matter of business), and the great frequency with which the disease is contracted from certain classes of women, all become comprehensible, and may be said, in resume, to depend upon the generally ad- mitted facts, that in the female a purely mucoid discharge, or one with but slight purulent admixture, is contagious only to a very moderate extent;1 that regularity in the performance of the sexual functions, absence of excesses of all sorts, and attention to personal cleanliness—circumstances usually existing in married life—tend to preserve the non-purulent character of such discharges ; and that these conditions are usually reversed when intercourse is illicit, and particularly when it takes place with women who do not prac- tise it as a profession. Consequently, we are not compelled to depend upon “ acclimation” as the sole explanation of the immunity of married men, while at the same time we may maintain the original proposition, that gonor- rhoea may be contracted from all forms of uterine and vaginal discharges. The importance of having well-grounded and clearly defined views upon this subject, becomes evident upon reflection. If we assert or believe in our ability to recognize by certain symptoms a specific gonorrhoea, which could only have been obtained, except in instances so rare that they might practi- cally be excluded, by contact or intercourse with an individual of the oppo- site sex having the same disease, we shall frequently be compelled either to prevaricate or actually to falsify, or else in many cases to put an end to domestic happiness or cause infinite misery and suffering. If a man with all the symptoms, presently to be detailed, of a typical case of gonorrhoea, asks the point-blank question as to the cause of his disease, and if, true to the “ viru- lent” theory, and careless or ignorant of his sexual or matrimonial relations, we reply that it has almost certainly resulted from a similar discharge pro- duced in its turn by a similar cause, we may possibly—indeed, taking the average of a large number of cases among the better classes, it is safe to say we will probably—do some innocent woman a great injustice, and, as in one instance of which I am personally cognizant, may even indirectly cause her ruin and death. It is never safe or proper to say that a given urethritis, vaginitis, or vulvitis, has resulted from impure sexual intercourse, although we may admit that the latter is the most frequent cause of these diseases. There is a marked difference between the sexes as regards susceptibility and exposure to contagion, which we should remember for our own instruc- tion, observing, however, the same caution as to expression of opinion. A man with a urethritis may have derived it from any one of the sources which have been mentioned, the woman, if it follow sexual intercourse, having been quite free from any truly venereal disease. In the majority of cases in which I have been asked to examine women suspected under these circumstances, I have failed to find any evidence of gonorrhoea in any of its forms. On the other hand, in the absence of traumatic or mechanical irritation, if a woman develops gonorrhoea—that is, a vulvitis, vaginitis, or urethritis—it is strong presumptive evidence that she has been exposed to contact with the secretion from a similar inflammation affecting the male urethra. The possible infect- ing or exciting causes of gonorrhoea in women are obviously much fewer 1 Mr. Milton’s rule, already quoted, that “ even a slight amount of gonorrhoea is more likely to excite the same disease in another person than a pretty high degree of leucorrhoea is to bring on even simple urethritis,” is a statement of this same fact, possibly a little exaggerated.