109 ARROW WOUNDS. the skin and other tissues that not even a probe, much less the finger or forceps, can be carried down to the head. A deep incision, using the arrow shaft as a guide, must therefore first be made with a probe-pointed bistoury, sufficiently free to permit the finger to pass down and touch the arrow* head. After the position of the latter has been ascertained by the finger, a pair of long dressing forceps, applied to the flat sides of the head, will suffice for its removal. I would urge that this should be done wTith the greatest care, lest the head should be separated from the shaft. So easily may this accident occur, and so unfortunate are its results, that this manoeuvre with the forceps must always be a matter of anxiety to the surgeon. If the arrow head is deeply lodged, or if it has penetrated the chest or abdomen, some other instrument than a dressing forceps will be necessary. If the arrow forceps, to be presently described, is not at hand, a loop one- quarter of an inch in diameter should be made on a stout wire, and this loop, having been bent at right angles to the body of the wire, should be carried down "beyond the point of the arrow head, and so manipulated as to snare the latter. In doing this, a forked probe, like that used in the operation for vaginal fistulte, or the old fashioned porte-meche (Fig. 40, Vol. I. p. 481) will be"of the greatest assistance. Fig. 228 shows the application of the loop to Fig. 228. Wire loop applied to arrow bead. the arrow head. When the loop has embraced the head with a very gentle pressure, the wire should be firmly lashed to the shaft of the arrow, and then gentle traction should be applied to this, the finger being kept as deeply in the wound as possible. It is best not to pull directly on the wire itself, but to use this only as a kind of clamp, to make the arrow head fast to the shaft, making traction on the latter. In this way, if any tissue which it is desirable not to cut, should be pinched between the wire and the edges of the arrow head, it will be less likely to be wounded. As soon as the head is drawn within reach of the finger, the dressing forceps should be applied. The loop should be used for arrow heads not lodged in bone, only to draw the missile within reach. In making the incision with the bistoury, it is better to make it too large than too small. It must allow perfect freedom for the manipulation of any instrument, and especially for that best of instruments, the index-finger. If the arrow head has lodged in a bone, and the arrow forceps is not at hand, the wire loop must be applied in a different way, and considerable force may be required to unseat the foreign body. The shaft in this case should be cut off with pliers, the wound well dilated, and, if possible, the position of the arrow head ascertained with the finger. Then a loop of stout but flexible wire—the ends being threaded into a Coghill’s suture twister—is slipped over the remnant of the shaft, and, by means of the twister and a porte-meche, is pushed down until it has passed over the arrow head, which it is made to encircle loosely. The wires are then drawn tight and fastened to the handles of the twister, and the latter having been rotated once or twice, the loop will be firmly attached to tbe head, from which it cannot slip owing to the wedge shape of the latter. Figure 229 shows the application of the twister and loop. The arrow shaft and the twister having been lashed together, the two may be gently twisted or rocked from side to side as one system, whilst trac- tion is made by the handles of the twister. If force enough be used, and if the wire do not break, the arrow head will come out. If the wire should