460 SYPHILIS. we must have simultaneous inoculations at various points.1 The solitary character of chancre is important from a diagnostic point of view. Chancre Involves the Neighboring Lymphatic Glands.—The chancre almost invariably2 gives rise to involvement of the neighboring lymphatic glands, the glands affected being multiple, separate, so that they can be rolled under the finger, hard, indolent, without change of color, and, unlike the lymphatic engorgement of chancroid, only very rarely suppurating. The lymphatic engorgement of chancre is gradually absorbed, and disappears in a variable length of time. It often happens, when the duration of the chancre is prolonged beyond the ordinary limit, perhaps to three or four weeks, that the “constitutional” or generalized symptoms manifest themselves concomitantly. Chancre rarely Complicated by Inflammation or Phagedena.—The chancre is very rarely complicated by phagedaena or gangrene, and seldom even shows inflammatory symptoms. After remaining for some days sta- tionary at its period of full development, it tends to heal over, and is gene- rally completely cicatrized at the end of a month. Chancre may be Transformed into a Mucous Patch.—When the chancre takes on the form called ulcus elevatum, it often closely resembles the mucous papule, and may easily be mistaken for this lesion; indeed, when the general eruption takes place before the chancre is completely cicatrized, the latter is occasionally transformed into a mucous patch.3 Relative Frequency of Chancre of Different Localities.—Chancre has no exclusive place of election: it occurs wherever the syphilitic virus has been deposited on an absorbing surface. Of course the genitalia are by far the most frequent seat of the lesion, being affected in about the proportion of 95 of every 100 instances. The relative frequency of chancre in the various genital regions is shown in the fol- lowing tables. Seat of Genital Chancres in the Male. (Clerc’s figures.) (Fournier’s figures.) Total number ...... 394 Internal surface of the prepuce . 63 Balano-preputial fold . . . 171 Orifice of the prepuce . . .35 Fraenum...... 14 Gians 12 Meatus urinarius . . . .33 Cutaneous surface of penis or prepuce 58 Scrotum ...... 3 Peno-scrotal angle .... 5 Total number ...... 445 Gians and prepuce .... 314 Preputial furrow .... 60 Multiple, that is showing chancres of the furrow and prepuce, or of the furrow and glans . . .11 Meatus urinarius .... 32 Intra-urethral . . . .17 Scrotum ...... 7 Peno-scrotal angle .... 4 1 Fournier inoculated the discharge of ninety-nine chancres upon the patients themselves and succeeded in but one instance, in which the experiment was performed within a very short period after infection. Puche states as the result of his experience that auto-inoculation of the chancre is successful in only two per cent, of cases. Poisson obtained like results in fifty- two cases, and Laroyenne was unsuccessful in every one of nineteen. (Bumstead and Taylor, Pathology and Treatment of Venereal Diseases, 4tli ed., p. 436.) 2 So invariably that the glandular involvement is a better sign of chancre than even induration. 3 See Fournier, Des Indurations secondaires et des Transformations du Chancre. Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie, t. iii. p. 255.