PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. 669 thoroughly into all affected parts at bedtime, and, if possible, allowed to re- main upon the skin all night. If too stimulating for such protracted action, it is to be washed off' after an hour in a warm bath. This process is to be repeated for several nights in succession. Upon very delicate skins, the Peruvian balsam may be used alone, mixed with alcohol or olive oil. Whatever method is employed, it must be remembered that the secondary eruption remains to be treated, after the parasitic element of the disease has been exterminated. In mild cases this will disappear of itself, but in the severer and long-standing forms of the affection, it is necessary to apply the same principles of treatment as are required in eczema. It must also not be forgotten that a continuance of the use of parasiticides, after they have accom- plished the destruction of the animal and its eggs, may provoke appearances which the physician creates while endeavoring to cure, and that the skin after a severe attack of the disease is often left in an irritable state for a long time. All underclothing worn next to the patient’s skin, as well as the bed linen, should be put into boiling water on the first night of treatment. Pediculosis. (Synonyms: Phtheiriasis ; Louse disease.)—The lice which infect man are of three distinct species, and they inhabit distinct regions of the body. They are: the head louse (Pediculus capitis), the clothes or body louse (Pediculus vestimentorum), and the pubic louse (Pediculus or Phthirius pubis). Pediculosis Capitis.—-The head louse lives only upon the hair of the head, to which it attaches its eggs, popularly called “nits,” and subsists by punc- turing the scalp and drawing blood through the bite. It multiplies very rapidly, and produces great irritation of the scalp. In consequence of scratch- ing or combing, acute eczematous inflammation of the scalp is often excited— Eczema madidans or Eczema pustulosum—so that the hair is glued together by the discharges, forming with the lice an indescribably filthy mass. The glands in the neck often become greatly swollen, and the eczema may extend from the centre of the scalp to its border, in all directions. A sympathetic eczema is often established about the ears, mouth, and nostrils, in children, even when the scalp is not visibly affected. Head lice are very common among the dirty classes of society, and often find their way to the most cleanly households, through the meeting of children at public schools, through the intercourse of wet nurses with lying-in women, and, no doubt, sometimes through accidental contact in public conveyances. Treatment.—The most effective way of destroying head lice is by saturat- ing the scalp and hair, throughout its length, with crude petroleum, and washing it off after two or three hours with soap and water. When dried, the hairs should be drenched with alcohol or cologne. This process should be repeated for two or three days in succession. The nits may remain attached to the shafts of the hairs for some time afterwards, but are harmless. They may be removed by scraping with knife or scissors. It is never neces- sary to cut the hair before treatment. Mercurial, stavesacre, and cevadilla ointments are often used to destroy the lice, but their effect is more uncertain than that of petroleum. The eczematous condition of the scalp, which remains after the destruction of the parasites, generally subsides rapidly, without treatment, but sometimes demands subsequent attention. All head coverings which have been worn in contact with the hair, should be cleansed by boiling or baking, or their linings should be destroyed. Combs and brushes may be cleansed with boiling water. They should never be used for the removal of the lice.