33 TREATMENT TO HELP QUICK OR PRIMARY UNION. tremity should be held by means of loops of carbolized silk, perforating its walls and secured externally by strapping or other means. The tubes should always be introduced at what will be the most dependent part of the wound, when the patient is in the recumbent position; and they should be taken away as soon as they have answered their purpose. When quick or primary union has taken place, they may safely be removed at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours; but when suppuration is present, they must be left longer, sometimes even till the cavity has closed. A drainage-tube should, however, be shortened as rapidly as the progress of the case will allow, the shortening of the tube and the closing of the cavity of the wound from below going on together. It is to be noted that, at the present day, the use of drainage, whether by tubes or other material, is suggested with the view of preventing suppuration in the treatment of deep wounds; whereas in former times, when Chassaig- nac introduced his tubes, it was for the treatment of wounds and cavities in which suppuration already existed. The value of the principle is, however, equally great in both classes of cases. When carbolic acid is used as a wound dressing, whether as a spray or as a lotion—or when chloride of zinc lotion is employed—the use of the drainage-tube is more necessary than it is when other forms of dressing are employed ; since Under the stipulating influence of these drugs, there is, as Lister tells us, more effusion of plasma than is to be looked for under other circumstances. Whenever a wound is closed, with the view either of obtaining rapid or primary union, or of con- verting an open, as far as possible, into a subcutaneous wound, the most care- ful inspection is called for, to guard against and even to anticipate trouble. In these cases, the wound should be opened on the slightest approach of local tension or overaction, with elevation of temperature and traumatic fever, since this local and constitutional disturbance will probably be found to be due to the retention of some of the fluids of the pa”t that are in excess of what is wanted for repair, and to be susceptible of relief only by the evacua- tion of such retained substances. Protection of Wound.—The protection of the external wound from all such outside influences as may be prejudicial to the progress of natural repair, is the sixth and last indication for the surgeon to follow ; and it is in itself as important as the five which have preceded it, since it includes the use of all means by which the wound can be protected from outside injury, as well as the dressing proper, or covering of the wound. For purposes of protection, most wounds require a covering, and, when they are on the extremities or other exposed parts, some cradle or other mechanical appliance, to keep off the weight of the bedclothes. In wounds of the face, however, coverings are rarely required, for all surgeons are familiar with the fact that there are no wounds, operative or accidental, that do as well as these, without any external application, provided that they have been carefully brought together and adjusted. Indeed, it is probably from a knowledge of these facts that the “ open method” of treating wounds has been advocated. This method cannot, however, be recommended, except for wounds of the face. For some years past I have been in the habit of dressing wounds with dry absorbent lint, or with lint soaked in a mixture of terebene, one part, and olive oil, three parts, and have every reason to be well satisfied with the practice. I simply cover the oiled lint with a second piece of dry lint, and fix the whole with some retentive bandage, room being left in all cases for drainage, either by loosely covering one corner of the wound, which is left open for drainage purposes, or by perforating the lint covering the wound, to allow of the protrusion of the end of the drainage-tube. Cotton-wool VOL. II.—3