427 LOCALITY OF SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. Resume. (1) Total number of chancroids recorded ..... . 1271 “ “ seated on genitals ...... . 1194 “ “ extra-genital ....... . 77 (2) Of these latter none were found upon the head and face. Total number of initial lesions recorded ..... . 471 “ “ seated on genitals ...... . 434 “ “ extra-genital ....... Percentage of genital chancroids to total number .... .93.95 “ extra-genital chancroids to total number . . . 6.05 “ cephalic chancroids to extra-genital .... . 0.00 “ genital initial lesions to total number .92.20 “ extra-genital initial lesions to total number . 7.80 “ cephalic initial lesions to extra-genital .54. On turning to the initial lesions, although we find the percentage of the extra-genital ulcers to be only slightly in excess of that of the chancroids (7.8 per cent, as compared with 6.05 per cent.), the percentage of cephalic to extra-genital lesions is very large, 54 per cent. Still, although I have been unable in my statistics to come across any cases of cephalic chancroid, it would he unwise to conclude that they never occur, as several such have been reported. I do not here mean to include cases in which artificial inocu- lation of chancroidal matter has been successfully performed in the cephalic region; the only examples which I shall now consider are those which have been observed clinically. The first positive case of the kind which I know of, is one given by Ricord,1 with a plate, the history of which is a curious commentary"upon the quota- tion on page 424, taken from his “Le§ons.” It is quite short, and I give it here in full:— “ Primary and non-indurated ulceration of the upper gum. Here is a virulent and primary ulcer of the gum, contracted by the application of the mouth to the genital organs of a woman affected with chancre. “ It is the only example that we have met with, which proves that chancres of the gums are much more rare than virulent ulcerations of the lips and of the tongue, which we have had occasion to observe several times. “ This ulceration, of which the duration has not been very long, followed the ordi- nary course of the non-indurated chancre. It healed up under the influence of fre- quently repeated cauterizations with the nitrate of silver and of lotions of aromatic wine. “ Our object in calling attention to this case is to prove that the virulent, inoculable syphilitic pus has not, as its seat of predilection, any particular organ, but that it acts always at first locally, wherever it meets with the conditions favorable for its develop- ment. Moreover, the fact that in this patient there has been no constitutional infec- tion, as we were able to determine long after the period at which it ought to have developed itself, proves that the gravity of syphilis does not depend, as has been said, upon the seat of the primary lesion.” It should be remembered that, at this period of Ricord’s teaching, he had not yet distinguished between the chancroid and the initial lesion of syphilis, and that hence, in speaking of this lesion being syphilitic, he was in error, as he subsequently acknowledged. Although no auto-inoculation was prac- tised, the history of the case and the appearance of the lesion in the plate leave no reasonable ground for doubting that the case was one of chancroid of the gum. Still, Ricord is unwilling to admit that it was such a lesion, for he says, on the fifteenth page of his “Lemons sur le Chancre” (Paris, 1860)— “ These chancres (cephalic) always belong, and I might say inevitably, to but one spe- cies, the indurated. They are always accompanied by the symptoms of constitutional Clinique Iconographique, etc., pi. 21.