201 GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE VERTEBRAE. parts may be so held together that at times union will result; as in the case reported by Baudens, in which “ the cavernous bodies and the urethra, en- tirely divided, were held oidy by a portion of the integument.” The always troublesome and often very painful erections must be controlled as much as possible by the usual remedies—opium, camphor, the bromide of potassium, etc. Cicatricial curvatures, which more or less seriously interfere with the functional integrity of the organ, if they cannot be prevented by appropriate dressings during the stage of healing, may be in greater or less measure cor- rected by removal of the cicatrix, if superficial and occupying the dorsum of the penis, or, when laterally placed, by excision of a wedge-shaped piece from the opposite uninjured corpus cavernosum. Urethral fistuhe and stric- tures should be treated in the usual way. When the abnormal openings are located in the penile portion, particularly near the peno-serotal angle, or in communication with the rectum, failure is not unlikely to follow any attempt at closure. For the arrestation of primary hemorrhage, if from even the large arterial or venous trunks—should cases of such come under treatment—ligation is always to be employed when practicable; the only exception to this rule is, perhaps, when the wound is of the gluteal artery, in the external part of its course, when properly applied compression may be used instead. Frequently it will be found very difficult, if not impossible, to determine from what source the bleeding comes; for instance, if the ilio-lumbar artery has been wounded, as in cases observed by Idodgen and Despres. If an aneurism has formed, the sac may be opened and the vessel tied above and below, hemor- rhage at the time being prevented by pressure on the vessel higher up, or by the use of an aorta compressor or a Davy’s rectal lever. Secondary hemor- rhage, whenever it is possible, should be treated by the application of ligatures above and below the seat of injury. Unfortunately, neither ligature nor com- press succeeds in the majority of cases in saving life, and this whether the hemorrhage be primary or secondary. Not once after gunshot injury has a ligature been successfully applied to the common iliac artery. Every case of wound of the sciatic artery, during our war, terminated fatally, as did four- teen out of eighteen of those of the gluteal, two only being saved by ligation and two by compression. Of the sixteen ligations of the external iliac artery, only two ended in recovery. Gunshot Injuries op the Vertebrae. Gunshot injuries of the spinal column may produce contusion, fracture, or penetration of the canal, and are often associated with lesions of important structures in the neck, chest, or abdomen. Contusion may be caused by the blow of a large missile, with or without accompanying wound of the soft parts, or by a bullet, the momentum of which is so far destroyed that it is unable to break the bone. Fracture may affect either the processes or the body of a vertebra, and in the latter case the shot may either penetrate or perforate, producing very frequently fissures running through to the posterior surface. When the cervical or dorsal canal is penetrated, the cord is usually, though not necessarily, damaged, and the associated injury to the bony wall may be limited to one of the vertebral laminae. Hemorrhage, either outside or inside of the theca, may be associated with any of the forms of vertebral injury; and the same is true of nervous'disturbances, such as pain (near or remote), tingling, reflex movements, and impairment—sometimes extending even to complete though temporary abolition—of motion and sensation. Laceration or division of the medulla must, of course, be followed by paralysis.