(tUNSHOT wounds. 170 penetrating wounds are much more frequently caused by the passage of a ball laterally than in the antero-posterior diameter, so that malleolar fracture is commonly seen either on one or both sides, and, if only one, generally on the outer. Escape of synovia in moderate amount, without other associated evi- dence, cannot be held to certainly indicate opening of the articulation, since wounds of the sheaths of the tendons may be followed by a similar discharge. Treatment.—The treatment of these ankle-wounds must be conducted upon the same general principles as those already considered in connection with injuries of the wrist, the analogous joint of the upper extremity. When the destruction has been great, as from a large shell fragment in military life, or from a load of shot at short range in civil practice, even if one of the main vessels and’nerves be undamaged, amputation may very properly be per- formed, since the danger of the operation to life will be at least no more, while recovery will be quicker—and by the adaptation of an artificial foot the functional value of the limb will be fully as great, if not greater—than when conservative measures have been successfully adopted. Under all other cir- cumstances, every effort should be made to preserve the foot, the usual details of the treatment by expectancy being fully carried out.. Not only should all foreign bodies be removed, but the gouge may be freely used along the shot track through the bone or bones, and if necessary for the proper drainage of the wound, a malleolus may be cut away. Extensive destruction of the tendo-Achillis does not, as has by many been thought, contra-indicate the attempt to save. In the immobilization of the part, much care must be taken to keep the foot at a right angle to the leg, to prevent the production of the “ pointed toe” that so much interferes with the after-usefulness of the limb; and suppurative teno-synovitis, which is very likely to occur, must, if possi- ble, be prevented. Almost certainly, anchylosis will take place, and such a termination is really the most desirable. But recovery in the great majority of cases of penetration, certainly of those treated otherwise than antiseptically, takes place only after the lapse of many weeks, and the results of the pro- tracted confinement and suppuration may be such as to compel the perform- ance of either excision or late amputation. Primary excision has been very rarely if ever performed for gunshot injury of the ankle, so that in this joint excision may be regarded simply as the complement of expectancy. Its results have not been such as to make it a favorite operation with military surgeons. Of the 142 cases tabulated by Gurlt, 49 ended fatally (35.5 per cent.), and in 19 cases an after-amputation was required, with a resulting mortality of 63.15 per cent. Death, accord- ing to Culbertson, may in one-sixth of the cases be attributed directly to the operation itself. Of the patients who recover, about one-half (52.72 per cent, of the 55 Germans in whom Gurlt was able to ascertain the “ end-result”) may he expected to have a fairly useful limb, and this whether the resection be complete or partial. If only one of the leg bones has been involved in the excision, lateral deviation of the foot will almost certainly take place. The operation, if done at all, should be effected by means of lateral incisions. The duration of treatment in successful cases is to be estimated by months, not weeks. In contrast to the death-rate of excision (35.5 per cent.), that of ankle-joint amputation is low (13.43 per cent, in the 67 cases tabulated in “ Circular No. 6”); that of supra-malleolar amputation “ surprisingly low” (Otis); and that of leg-amputation in general, while quite high—26.02 per cent. (Otis)—still nearly ten per cent, more favorable. Even compared with Legouest’s statis-