THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 414 characteristic of the chancroid far more important than any yet mentioned, viz: its capacity for auto-inoculation. The Simple Venereal Ulcer is Auto-inoculable.—Until very recently, this property was considered as peculiar to the simple venereal ulcer, no other kind of pus being deemed capable of inoculation upon the persons who bore the lesion from which the matter was taken. Later experiments have deprived the ulcer of this distinction, and yet I think the auto-inoculability of the chancroid is still a very important point, and of great value in the diagnosis of doubtful cases, even though the pus of non-venereal skin-affec- tions, or of an artificially irritated initial lesion of syphilis, is occasionally susceptible of auto-inoculation. This property was correctly supposed to reside in the pus of the ulcer, and as no ordinary pus was considered to possess similar powers, the existence of a supposititious virus was invoked to account for the phenomenon. This convenient cloak for ignorance was termed the specific virus of the chancroid, and was believed to be the cause of the existence of the simple venereal ulcer, and to account for its virulence. Let us examine the more recent experiments which have been instituted upon this subject, and see what bearing they have upon the existence of a special chancroidal virus. Question op the Virus op the Simple Venereal Ulcer.—Ever since 1852, when Bassereau instituted his well-known confrontations, and when the diagnostic differences between the simple venereal ulcer and the initial lesion of syphilis were beginning to be recognized and better understood, innumerable inoculations and auto-inoculations have been made with chancroidal pus, and no fact in venereal medicine is better attested than this characteristic of the chancroid. But it was believed that only matter derived from the simple venereal ulcer was capable of auto-inoculation; and Ricord, in his “Lettres sur la Syphilis,” says:— “ I have inoculated upon the same patient, and that a hundred times, the pus of a chancre,1 the pus of balano-posthitis, the muco-pus of urethral blennorrhagia, the pus furnished by phlegmonous inflammations of other parts, and while the pus of the chancre invariably produced a chancre, the other kinds of pus remained of negative effect.” And the entire medical world has said “Amen” to this conclusion of Ricord. Recent experiments, however, have made us doubt the absolute correctness of this statement. In 1864 or 1865,2 Dr. Pick, at the instigation of Zeissl, instituted in the hospital at Vienna some inoculations with pus taken from scabies, pemphigus, and acne pustules. The experiments were made upon syphilitic patients, and resulted in the production of pustules which were auto-inoculable for several generations, and did not in any way resemble indurated chancres. At the same time Pick made inoculations with the same pus upon the bearers of the lesion from which the matter was taken, and also upon other non-syphilitic patients, and they all proved negative.3 About the same time similar experiments were made by Drs. Kraus and 1 For “chancre” read “chancroid” wherever the word appears in the above extract; although this edition of Ricord’s letters was published in 1863, as revised and corrected, it is but too evi- dently a copy of previous editions, taken from and written for the “ Union Medicale” in 1850 and 1851. 2 Bumstead, in his fourth edition, says it was in 1865. But in consulting Zeissl, Auspitz, and Reder. I am unable to fix the time more positively than I have given it above. 8 Zeissl, Lekrbuch der Syphilis. Bd. i. S. 180 u. folg.