( 217 ) THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. BY THOMAS GEORGE MORTON, M.D., SURGEON TO THE PENNSYLVANIA HOSPITAL AND TO THE ORTHOPEDIC HOSPITAL ; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE JEWISH HOSPITAL, ETC., PHILADELPHIA. Burns and Scalds. Notwithstanding the progressive and protective character of modern civilization, with its manifold advances in the domestic arts and in applied science, and with all its humane provisions designed to avert accidental inju- ries, there seems to be no decrease, but rather an increase, in the number of casualties constantly occurring, and to which poor humanity is daily ex- posed. Among the most common of these casualties must be considered Burns and Scalds. The immense increase in the use of steam machinery, fresh applications of which are so frequently announced, and the almost daily introduction of new agents of a combustible and explosive character, constitute fruitful sources of the increase in the number of those terrible injuries produced by excessive heat, which, even when not at once followed by death, frequently entail pro- tracted suffering, and cause more or less distressing if not incurable de- formity. Among the more prolific sources of this form of injury may be particularly mentioned accidents occurring in the manufacture and employ- ment of coal-gas and gasoline, now so commonly used for illumination, cooking, heating, and other purposes; in the handling and refining of the various products made from petroleum, which have been extensively intro- duced all over the world; in the almost universal employment of steam, friction matches, and gunpowder; in the manufacture of chemicals, soaps, and candles; in the handling of hot fluids; and in conflagrations in breweries, refineries, factories, and galvanizing works; in theatres, and hotels ; upon rail- roads ; in mining and blasting—in fact wherever fire, steam, or combustibles of any sort are used. The record of our daily papers, and our hospital regis- ters, amply attest the constantly increasing number of cases of accidental injury. Causes of Burns and Scalds. Burns from the direct contact of fire are very often seen among women, who, from their occupation and mode of dress, are liable to have their clothing ignite while cooking, as well as from treading upon matches, and from explosions incident to the very common practice of filling coal oil lamps while lighted, and attempting to kindle or quicken fires by pouring coal oil on slumbering embers. Unfortunately, those oils which are the cheapest, and consequently more generally used by the poor (who are also the more careless and improvi-