418 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. generation, were less successful; the epidermis was elevated, but the red peripheral circle was slight. (3) Those made with matter which had been subjected to the vapor of the essential oil of turpentine were the poorest of all. The centre of the puncture was hardly raised, slightly papular ; the reddish areola was almost entirely wanting, and the centre of this rudimentary vesicle was of a yellowish hue, a characteristic which the other inoculations did not present. On the 25th (the seventh day), the pustules of the first inoculation had begun to dry ; they were covered with a yellowish crust. The peripheral redness had disappeared, leaving a slight puffiness. On the 27th, inoculations were made with the matter from the second generation of pustules. These healed up rapidly, the punctures being marked on the following day by a slight prominence; the pustulatiop had aborted. A pro- gressive decline in these inoculations was noticed ; the last made were the first to heal. The capacity for inoculation diminished with each new generation, and the third one gave an insignificant result. Nevertheless, the subject did not lose the aptitude for inoculation, which was proved by new and characteristic pustules being obtained by inoculation of matter from the spontaneous pustules. I have given these cases fully, because of the care and thoroughness with which they are reported, and because they are of great importance in their bearing upon this question of auto-inoculability. It must be borne in mind that, at the present day, it is believed that the simple venereal ulcer is the only lesion which possesses auto-inoculable pus, and this peculiarity has been claimed as of great importance in a diagnostic point of view. If, now, we can show any well-attested cases where simple pus—by that I mean pus not derived from a chancroid nor from syphilis—has been capable of auto-inocu- lation, the importance of auto-inoculation as regards the chancroid is very much diminished. Let us, then, review the cases just reported, and see what deductions we are justified in drawing from them. In the German series, the cases of Pick, Kraus, and Reder, simple pus is inoculable only upon syphilitic patients, and upon no others; hence it is in- oculable only upon a limited number of subjects, but upon them it is auto- inoculable for three generations. In the American case, Dr. Wigglesworth’s, no attempt is made to inoculate healthy persons, but simple pus is auto-inoculable for three generations upon the bearer of the lesion, who, previously to and at the time of the experi- ment, is free from syphilis or any venereal taint, but who is debilitated. In the French series, Dr. Vidal’s cases, simple pus is auto-inoculable upon the bearers of the lesion, who are presumably free from syphilis, but who are suffering from typhoid fever in three instances, and in the fourth from a sickly constitution. In all these cases one feature is especially noteworthy: the subjects of the experiments are below par in point of health. The part syphi- lis plays in this auto-inoculability is only a secondary one, because many other cases in which syphilis is absent show the same capacity. What then is it which makes simple pus sometimes auto-inoculable? The pus? Not altogether, else why should it happen that healthy persons are impervious to its action? I grant that sufficient experiments have not yet been instituted upon this point to enable us to say positively that this is al- ways the case, but, as far as our knowledge goes, the contrary remains to be proved. In one particular, then, chancroidal pus still retains its prominence, in that it requires no special soil for its propagation. But even here we must pause before committing ourselves to this statement. Is the chancroidal pus always capable of inoculation and auto-inoculation? Under certain circum- stances, rare it is true, it would seem not to be so, as a glance at the annexed tables will show.