113 ARROW WOUNDS. ing it. Ordinarily the arrow forceps, applied to its edges, will bring it away safely enough, even without an incision. If the head is lodged in bone, the forceps should be used as the dentist uses the bicuspid forceps, giving a slight twist to unseat the foreign body, before making traction. I reiterate, Fig. 231. and would lay it down as a cardinal rule, that an arrow head must never be left in the body, unless patient search has failed to find it. I wrote in 1862, and think yet: “We might as well cut the patient’s limb up until we do find the arrow headfor, if it is left, amputation will be necessary, and worse than this can hardly ensue from the dissection advised. If I should undertake such an operation, I would make up my mind to find the arrow head, even if it became necessary to tear up every fasciculus of every muscle in the injured member. Before leaving the general consideration of arrow wounds, I should men- tion a complication peculiar to the lodgment of the iron arrow head, a com- plication which renders its extrusion by natural processes impossible, and its extraction by art very difficult. If a soft iron arrow head strikes a hone obliquely, or slips between it and its periosteum, or if the muscles contract as the shaft passes through them—the point of the head being at the same time in some dense tissue, such as bone or cartilage—the point is bent. This bending increases as the arrow goes on, until at last the whole head will have been transformed into a hook. A little reflection will show how powerless the wounded part must be to throw off the intruder, and how hard it will be to remove it by forceps, unless we make allowance for its change of shape. The appearance of an arrow head thus dis- torted is represented in Fig. 232, from a case reported by Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. Army.1 In a case occurring in the practice of the late Dr. Kennon, of Al- buquerque, Hew Mexico, the femur was found half encircled by a hoop-iron arrow head, which had produced caries, ab- scess, and infiltration, and was only re- moved at last after a severe operation. The chance in any given case that the arrow head may have been thus bent, gives additional force to the rule of always searching the wound with the finger as a probe. Unless the surgeon sees the patient very soon after the plucking out of 1 Hamilton’s Military Surgery, p. 530. VOL. II.—8 Fig. 232. Bending of arrow heads. (After Clements.)