NATURE OF GONORRHCEA. 327 nothing whatever is found to occur, either as to the manner of attack or the tissue or tissues invaded, which separates it from ordinary catarrhal diseases; nothing, for example, analogous to the induration of the chancre, the ulcera- tion of Peyer’s patches, the dermatitis and pustuiation, which, by their almost unvarying presence in syphilis, typhoid fever, and variola, are entitled to be called specitic characters in those diseases.1 The occasional occurrence of articular disease, “gonorrhoeal rheumatism,” and of a sclerotitis, “gonorrhoeal ophthalmia,” as complications of urethritis, has been frequently attributed to some peculiar property supposed to belong solely to gonorrhoeal pus, and never originating apart from contagion. Since, however, it has been found beyond dispute that these inflammations of fibrous tissue may complicate urethritis due to traumatism, and that they are in all probability mild pysemic manifestations following the absorption of purulent products through the delicate urethral mucous membrane (see p. 346), this argument has lapsed. The term “ urethral synovitis” has been proposed as a substitute for the former, and is in every way preferable. The intense form of conjunctivitis following contact with pus resulting from a urethritis, has also been shown by experiment to be in no sense a specific process, pus from an eye affected with ophthalmia neonatorum having pro- duced a characteristic urethritis, which in its turn proved transmissible, and gave rise to a typical conjunctivitis. After gonorrhoea has apparently subsided, any indiscretion in diet, any sexual or alcoholic indulgence, any local irritation, may, and frequently does, serve to reproduce it in all its original intensity, and this may be repeated an indefinite number of times. Nothing at all analogous to this occurs during the course of any of the diseases with which we are comparing it. Unless the peculiar virus is supposed to be generated anew in each case of traumatic urethritis, an untenable theory, it becomes impossible in the light of clinical observation to explain these peculiarities and variations in the cause of gonorrhoea on the supposition that it is truly specific in its character. The facts which have thus been stated may be briefly presented in a tabu- lar form:— Gonorrhoea. No period of incubation. Caused by a variety of agencies, chem- ical, traumatic, and infectious. Predisposes to a second attack. Associated only with ordinary processes of inflammation. May be re-awakened or reproduced at will and indefinitely. Specific Diseases. Definite period of incubation. Caused always by the absorption of a definite virus or morbid product. Protect from a second attack. Have distinct and almost unvarying peculiarities as regards their pathology. Run a definite course, and cannot be made to return after its completion. Dr. Fordyce Barker speaks of a peculiar form of urethritis which has associated with it a leucorrhoeal discharge, that in repeated instances has produced a purulent ure- thritis in the male. Dr. Otis records the case2 of a gentleman who had been married 1 “ Chiefly affecting mucous membranes, gonorrhoea has all the characters of ordinary inflam- mation of mucous membrane ; it begins near the surface where the contagious secretion is first applied, and thence spreads towards the interior of the body ; it is attended by redness, with scattered or more general hypersemia, swelling of the mucous membrane, considerable increase in the secretion of mucus, with the addition of many wandering leucocytes, and, in severe inflam- mation, also of red corpuscles; subsequently the swelling, hypersemia, increased mucous secre- tion, and escape of leucocytes diminish, the superficial epithelium desquamates, and the secretion of mucus gradually abates. Such are the anatomical characters, and they are those of any ca- tarrhal inflammation.”—Prof. H. Lebert (a strong advocate of the doctrine of specificity), in Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. viii. p. 752. 2 Medical Record, June 8, 1878.