SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. 563 of the mouth is also a valuable diagnostic sign. In stomatitis, the gums and the sulci between these and the cheeks are often the seat of the lesions, while those of syphilis are not found in that locality. Of course the history of the case and the concomitant symptoms must be taken into consideration. Gummata of thfe mucous membranes are occasionally met with, but not in the earlier periods of hereditary syphilis. The features which these present in the infant are not different from those described as occurring in acquired syphilis of the adult. They are liable to be mistaken for strumous ulceration, hut the history and general character of the lesion—being irregular, less sharply defined, and spreading more rapidly—will aid in the diagnosis. Affections of the Viscera in Hereditary Syphilis.—As in the acquired syphilis of the adult, so also in hereditary syphilis, the disease spares no organ or viscus. Our space, however, does not permit the discussion of the various affections in detail, and the lesions of the bones and the nervous system alone will therefore be described. Affections of the Bones.1—These are described by Bumstead and Taylor under the heads of osteo-chondritis, 'periostitis, and dactylitis syphilitica. The former is the most common osseous affection, and frequently its presence de- cides the syphilitic nature of coexisting lesions. The bones most commonly attacked are those of the forearm, the leg, the arm, and the thigh. The clavicle, sternum, and ribs are also attacked, as well as the metatarsal and metacarpal bones. In these cases of osteo-chondritis, a swelling, often imper- ceptible in fat children, is observed at the diaphyso-epiphy seal junction. There is a ring or collar around the bone at this point, or in some cases a less dis- tinctly defined swelling. When two contiguous bones are affected, they often seem to be fused together. The swellings may be developed slowly or rapidly; they are commonly indolent, and do not interfere with the movements of the joints, although these may become secondarily involved. The lesion may break down, soften, and ulcerate, the ends of the fragments of bone protruding through the open- ing. Separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis is not uncommon. When resolution occurs, if the diseased action has progressed to any con- siderable extent, the cartilage having been destroyed, shortening of the hone takes place. Sometimes, however, the bone appears to be restored in its in- tegrity. A curious condition of pseudo-paralysis of the involved limb often occurs in connection with this affection.2 Periostitis is a later affection, attacking the hones of children who have already begun to walk. The femur and tibia are first attacked, the greater part of the shaft being often involved, with general thickening and bowing anteriorly, producing marked deformity. The fibula is sometimes attacked, and both legs are apt to be affected. Occurring later in life the affection is more apt to be unilateral. Sometimes the bones of the skull are attacked, and the nodes occasionally break down and form troublesome abscesses. Periostitis usually occurs before the twelfth year, but may, in exceptional cases, be seen at a later period.3 1 Our knowledge of these lesions is comparatively recent, and derived from the labors of Wegner, Ueber hered. Knochensypliilis bei jungen Kindern (Arch. f. path. Anat. Bd. 1. 1870) ; Waldeyer und Kobner, Beitr. z. Kenntniss der hered. Knochensypliilis (Arch. f. path. Anat. Bd. lv., 1872) ; Parrot (Arch, de Physiol. Norm, et Path. 4me Ann., 1872) ; and R. W. Taylor, Syphilitic Lesions of the Osseous System in Infants and Young Children. New York, 1875. 2 I recently reported an interesting case of this affection, in which the pseudo-paralysis was a marked symptom. A case of Bone Syphilis in an Infant accompanied by Pseudo-paralysis, etc. (Phila. Medical Times, Oct. 11, 1879.) 3 Two marked cases of hereditary syphilitic disease are shown in Figs. 331 and 333.