SYPHILIS. 480 mittent form of the disease. Mercury is usually well borne in syphilitic fever, and in the rare cases in which it is found to disagree when given by the stomach, it may be administered in the form of inunction. Affections of the Lymphatic Glands.—Lymphangeitis may first be men- tioned. In certain cases of syphilitic disease, delicate knotted cords, indi- cating the course of inflamed lymphatic vessels, can be perceived in the upper portions of the arms and thighs; they rarely extend towards the extremities. Jullien1 reports the case of a woman who, three months subsequent to syphil- itic infection, suffered with a general engorgement of all the lymphatic vessels and ganglia, coincident with the outbreak of a tubercular eruption. Ordinarily, lymphangeitis tends to resolution, and, moreover, it is not a striking lesion ; evidence of its presence must be sought for, as otherwise it is apt to escape attention. Adenitis, on the other hand, is more apparent and obvious. Few persons affected with syphilis fail to show symptoms of adenitis in the secondary period. In twenty cases observed by Campana (quoted by Jullien), the glands of the groin were affected in every instance, those of the sides of the neck in thirteen cases, those of the nucha in eight, those of the sub- maxillary region in five, those of the crural region in three, those of the axillary, the parotid, the epitrochlear, and the submammary regions each in two instances. These little glandular nodules are in every respect similar to those attendant upon chancre; they may occur independently of any tegumentary disturbance, and simply as the expression of the presence of the virus in the ganglia. The generalized involvement of the lymphatic glands always lasts a long time, and only disappears very slowly by resolu- tion. Occasionally, in strumous subjects, a secondary scrofulous inflamma- tion may occur, resulting in the formation of the usual scrofulous glandular abscess. The glands of the submaxillary, subhyoid, and cervical regions, those situated anteriorly and posteriorly to the sterno-mastoid muscle, and possibly also those of the retro-pharyngeal region, are most apt to be thus affected. As regards the influence of the appearance of these lymphatic disturbances on the general prognosis of the disease, it is unfavorable if the glandular enlargement is marked and intense. Condition of the Spleen.—The spleen may be affected in the stage of syphilis of which we are treating, being sometimes enlarged to the extent of passing four or five inches above the floating ribs. This enlargement is observed in from 7 to 8 per cent, of all cases,2 and is usually accompanied by gastric disturbances and enteritis, boulimia, and polydipsia; occasionally vomiting and diarrhoea supervene. Enlargement of the Tonsils is not an infrequent accompaniment of this stage of syphilis, these glands sometimes attaining considerable size, and giving rise to one form of deafness occurring at this period.3 Supra-renal Capsules.—Jullien4 has drawn attention to the “pigmentary syphiloderm ” (vide infra) as in all probability caused by syphilitic disease of the supra-renal capsules, of which the cortical portion at least is composed of lymphatic follicles. 1 Op. cit., p. 643. 2 Attention was first called to this subject by Weil, of Heidelberg. (Ueber das Vorkommen des Milztumors bei frischer Syphilis. Deutsches Archiv fiir klin. Med., Mai, 1874, and Centralbl. f. die med. Wissensch., 1874, No. 12.) 3 See Tanturri, Syphilitic lymphadenomata in the isthmus faucium. Rivista di Med., etc. Milano, Aprile, 1873. 4 Op. cit., p. 647.