INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA?. 714 bursa for the latter. A bursa is interposed between the tendon of the gluteus minimus muscle and the great trochanter; another between the lower part of the trochanter and the contiguous portion of the shaft of the femur, and the tendon of the gluteus maximus; below this, a second between the tendons of the gluteus maximus and the vastus externus muscles; one beneath the pectineus, near its insertion into the femur; and one between the external obturator muscle and the back of the neck of the femur. A large bursa is found between the quadratus femoris and the lesser trochanter; one between the trochlear groove of the ischium and the tendon of the obturator interims, often communicating with another, quite commonly present, which is situated between the back of the capsule and the gemelli, and the obturator interims ; bursal interspaces exist between the obturator interims, the quadratus femoris, and the back of the capsule; a bursa is found beneath the conjoined ten- don of the semitendinosus and biceps; another beneath the origin of the semi- membranosus • and an accidental one over the upper and outer part of the thigh. Ilio-psoas Bursa.—When enlarged, this presents a fluctuating tumor over the front and inner part of the thigh. It may reach a large size, even that of a child’s head, and may have portions which feel hard to the touch. When suppuration occurs, the pus points below the edge of the great gluteal muscle to the outer side of the femoral vessels, or in both situations. The subjacent pelvic bones were necrotic in one reported case. The limb is flexed from irri- tation of the ilio-psoas muscle, and to remove pressure from the inflamed sac, and in consequence a varying degree of lameness results. Diagnosis.—This affection can hardly be confounded with any other except hip-disease, the differential diagnosis from which will be presently referred to. From femoral hernia it can be distinguished by the absence of impulse on coughing, of resonance on percussion, and of the characteristic sensation when ,reduced—supposing it to be possible in a given case, when very small, to force the contents into the hip-joint—and by the internal position of the femoral vessels. Fromp.s'0«,s abscess it may be distinguished by the absence of signs of caries of the vertebrae, and by the history. From coxalgia it can be distin- guished by the absence of pain on pressure over or behind the trochanter major, and by the fact that, by cautious manipulation, flexion can be freely made without elevation of the pelvis. This cannot be done in hip-disease, since, after a. limited degree of flexion has been attained, the pelvis, in that affection, moves with the femur. If the ilio-psoas muscle be relaxed, no pain should be experienced in bursal inflammation when the head of the femur is forced into the acetabulum, either directly by pressure or blows on the trochanter, or indirectly by force applied to the knee. Of course no grating can be detected in moving the joint even under anaesthesia. The pain is never referred to the knee. Barwell1 calls attention to the pain over the origin of the gracilis and adduc- tor muscles, which is common to bursitis of this sac and impacted fracture of the femoral neck. I can hardly think that there is any likelihood of the two affections being confounded, and refer to the subject merely because so dis- tinguished an authority as Mr. Barwell has considered the mistake possible. Treatment.—As this sac usually communicates with the hip-joint, aspiration alone should be resorted to, followed by the use of blisters and pressure. If pus forms, and is evidently making its way to the surface, should aspiration fail, a free opening must be made with the strictest antiseptic precautions.2 Any 1 Diseases of Joints, 1881, p. 489. 2 Shaeffer reports (Centralblatt f. Chir., 1880, Bd. xvi. S. 433) a case of suppuration of the ilio-psoas bursa where the sac opened into the articulation, in which treatment by incision and drainage was followed by recovery with a movable joint. I have not seen the original paper, but only an abstract which gives the above facts.