468 SYPHILIS. Seat of Chancre. Chancres of the anus and margin of the anus. Chancres of the lip and chin. Chancres of the tongue. Chancres of the eyelid. Chancres of the finger. Chancres of the arm. Chancres of the breast. Chancres of the cervix uteri. Corresponding Bttbo. Inguinal ganglia. Submaxillary ganglia. Subhyoid ganglia. Pre-auricular ganglion. Epitrochlear ganglion ; axillary ganglia. Axillary ganglia. Axillary and sometimes subpectoral ganglia. Theoretically the pelvic ganglia ; in gene- ral, no engorgement in the groins ; ex- ceptionally, inguinal bubo. The induration of the ganglia begins about the same time as the indura- tion of the base of the chancre. In rare cases the induration may be de- layed, but, according to Ricord, never longer than a fortnight. Fournier, however, mentions one case where the ganglionic induration did not appear until twenty-seven days after the appearance of the chancre. In adenitis accompanying chancre of the genitalia, the induration may affect the glands of either or both groins. It usually occurs on the same side as that upon which the chancre is situated. One or more glands may he affected. The “ pleiad” of olive-shaped or globular tumors is felt, carti- laginous in hardness, freely movable on each other and the surrounding tissues, and without attachment to the overlying integument. One gland is usually more developed than the rest, and may be of almond size, while the others as large as a bean or a cherry surround it like satellites. A marked peculiarity of the syphilitic adenitis accompanying chancre is its indolent character. The glandular enlargement takes place insidiously, often without the patient’s knowledge. The skin remains unaltered, there is no pain, and only slight tenderness on pressure. The whole picture of “ syphi- litic bubo” is as widely different from that of chancroidal bubo as it is possible to imagine. (See article on Chancroid, page 485.) Less frequently a single tumor is felt in the groin, and this may be somewhat larger than those above described. The various characteristics, however, remain the same. Ganglionic induration is usually at its height within a week or two weeks. If mercury be given, it may diminish in degree, only to return when secon- dary or general symptoms show themselves. It may last from several weeks to five or six months, or longer. The adenitis of syphilis very rarely results in suppuration. Bassereau found only 16 cases of suppurating bubo in 883 cases of syphilis, while Fournier found but 2 in 265. The importance of the non-suppurative character of syphilitic bubo, is seen in the investigation of cases where doubtful lesions, late in character, if syphilitic, show themselves. If the patient gives a history of venereal sores accompanied by non-suppurating buboes, syphilis may with great probability be inferred. If, on the other hand, the venereal sores were followed by sup- purating buboes, the probability, though much less strong, is in favor of the occurrence of chancroid. It is a common but not invariable rule that syphilis does not follow an open bubo. Syphilitic adenitis is most apt to be confounded with strumous engorge- ment. The history of the case and the accompanying symptoms must decide the diagnosis. From simple inflammatory and virulent bubo, the indolent and non-inflammatory character of the lesion under consideration will dis- tinguish it.1 1 See Auspitz, Buboes of tlie Inguinal Region. Archiv fiir Dermatologie und Syphilis, 1873. Translated in the American Journal of Sypliilography and Dermatology, vol. v, 1874, pp. 131, 270.