ARROW WOUNDS. 107 An arrow may make a simple incised wound, several inches in length. Thus, if an arrow head strikes the skin obliquely, particularly at some spot where it is closely drawn over bone—as over the ulna, the tibia, or the cra- nium—a long cut with clear edges will result. Parts Oftenest Wounded.—In the annexed table is shown the liability of the several regions of the body to be wounded, and the relative fatality of these wounds:— Head or spinal column. Neck and trunk. Thorax. Heart. Abdomen. Upper extrem- ities. Lower extrem- ities. Total. Contents wounded Contents not wounded Lung wounded Lung not wounded Cavity pene- trated. Cavity not pene- trated. Recovered. . Died . . . . 2 7 4 12 1 5 13 10 2 2 18 n 3 44 2 17 1 107 47 Cases.... 9 4 13 18 10 2 20 14 46 18 , 154 The above table is founded upon some seventy cases of arrow wound which fell under the notice of the writer in 1860, and an account of which was published in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for October, 1862, together with other cases which have occurred since—some reported to the Surgeon-General of the United States Army, and published in Circular Ho. 3, S. G. O., 1871; others as yet unpublished; and five reported in the Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter for January, 1864, by Assistant- Surgeon Elliot Coues, U. S. Army. The upper extremity is oftenest wounded, not only because it is most ex- posed, but also because an arrow can be seen as it advances, and the arm, being instinctively raised to ward off the missile, thus receives its point. Wounds which penetrate the abdominal cavity, and injure its vessels or vis- cera, are the most fatal. Knowing this, the Indian, if lie has time to de- liberate, points his arrow and lance at the abdomen, while the Mexican protects this part with special care, by covering it with many folds of a blanket. As already stated, multiple arrow wounds are the rule. In the above table, in each case in which there were multiple arrow wounds, the most serious, or the fatal wound, only is recorded. Causes of Death.—The following table exhibits the causes of death in thirty-nine cases of arrow wound, in which this was ascertained:— Cause of death. Immediate hemor- rhage. Peritonitis Compres- sion of brain. Encepha- litis. Empyema. Tetanus. Pneumo- nia. Paralysis from wound of cord. Wound of heart. (Shock?) Number ) of cases $ 10 16 4 3 1 1 i i 2 Prognosis.—The prognosis in a case of arrow wound depends on sevei'al circumstances. It is influenced, in the first place, by the nature of the parts wounded. Vessels and intestines are not pushed aside, as they frequently are by bullets, but are laid open; fecal matter may be thus thrown into the peritoneum, or a hemorrhage, sufficient to determine the fatal issue, may take place before the case is seen by the surgeon. Hot only have we to consider the blood already lost, but that which is likely to be lost in extracting the