THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. 68 bath can hardly be as effectual as by irrigation, for the discharge is not re- moved with the same certainty and rapidity. The open method of treatment must also be included among the antiseptic methods, though at first sight it might appear entirely opposed to them. The free exposure of the discharge to the air acts antiseptic-ally in two ways. In the first place, it was pointed out by Pasteur long ago, with regard to the alcoholic fermentation, that the fermenting power of the yeast cells was much diminished if they were freely supplied with oxygen. On the other hand, if they had but little oxygen, they, according to his theory, took it from the sugar, and caused fermentation much more rapidly and thoroughly. Therefore, any micro-organisms requiring free oxygen for their growth, though they grow more rapidly, will produce less fermentation, if the dis- charge be well oxygenated, than if it be shut up under a mass of dressings. But Pasteur also showed, with regard to the butyric and putrefactive fermen- tations, that oxygen was directly noxious to the bacteria which caused them; that not only could these fermentations not occur if oxygen were freely ad- mitted, but that the bacteria were actually killed by this gas. Thus the free exposure of the discharge to oxygen diminishes the fermenting powers of those micro-organisms which grow in it, while it prevents the development of those which cause one of the most obnoxious fermentations—the putrefactive. In the second place, the open method acts antiseptically in another way. Por by the free exposure of the discharge to the air, evaporation takes place, and the fluid becomes more concentrated. [Now bacteria do not develop nearly so well in a concentrated as in a moderately dilute solution, and fluids may be made so concentrated that bacteria will not develop in them at all. This concentration of the fluids is carried to its most complete extent in the treat- ment by crust formation, and it acts to some slight extent in Alphonse Gue- rin’s cotton-wool dressing, though that hardly deserves to be included among antiseptic methods. A very different, but equally important principle is in- volved in the method of treatment by accurate approximation of cut surfaces, and the maintenance of perfect mechanical rest. It is well known that wounds of the face unite readily by first intention, without the occurrence of fermentation in the layer of lymph or blood-clot between the cut surfaces. This implies one of two things: either lymph is a medium in which micro- organisms can only develop with difficulty, or else the healthy living tissues have the power of preventing the development of micro-organisms in their substance and immediate vicinity. That the latter is the case, has now been amply demonstrated, and it is the chief agent at work in getting this result. At the same time, lymph is not by any means the best pabulum for isolated bacteria. Aseptic Surgery and Listerism. It is, of course, at once evident that all these methods must stand far below the great principle which Mr. Lister was the first to enunciate, and to the application of which in surgical practice he has devoted so many years. When Mr. Lister first wrote on this subject, the confusion and uncertainty which existed in the minds of surgeons on this matter, was, as I have just indicated, very great, and the results obtained by him in all cases stood forward in glar- ing contrast to the results got at that time from the misdirected efforts of other surgeons. Since he wrote, however, and to a great extent by his own writings, interest has been excited in this department, and improvement has followed, not merely in the method of treatment which he devised with the view of excluding micro-organisms altogether from wounds, but also in the less perfect forms of antiseptic surgery to which I have referred in the preced-