571 GENERAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. Bichloride of mercury, 1 part. Water, 900 parts. Alcohol, 100 parts. Dose, a tablespoonful, given in a wineglassful of pure or of sweetened water, accord- ing to the taste of the patient. The bichloride may also be given in one of the hitter infusions, or in com- bination with the tincture of the chloride of iron, as thus:— R Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr. ij. Tinct. ferri chlor. f'3iv. Aquas, ad f^iv. M. Dose, a teaspoonful in a wineglassful of water. If it is desired to give the bichloride in pill form, the following (Sturgis) is a good combination :— R.—Hydrarg. chlor. corrosiv. gr. Jg— Saponis, q. s. ut fiat pil. una. M. One thrice daily after meals. In order to check its action upon the bowels from one-quarter to half a grain of opium may be added to each pill. General Principles of the Administration of Mercury.—The method of ad- ministering mercury, the period during which it is to be given, and the pro- per average dose of the various preparations, must now be considered. In former times the object aimed at was to salivate the patient, and, this end once attained, the disease, it was thought, might be considered cured. At the present day salivation is universally regarded as a catastrophe to be avoided, and it only occurs as the result of mischance. Two plans of treat- ment are usually recommended by modern writers, the treatment by “ courses” of mercury, with intervals of rest between the series, and the so-called “ tonic,” or continuous treatment by small doses. The latter plan has been brought into prominence of late years by the writings of Keyes, of Kew York.1 The preparation usually employed by Keyes is the protiodide of mercury, and he prefers the accurately made French granules of Garnier and Lamoureux, each of which contains exactly one-sixth of a grain, although several American- made gelatine-coated pills are equally good. In the rare cases in which the French granules cause griping, Keyes recommends blue pill, according to the formula given above, only in half grain doses, with a quarter of a grain of the dried sulphate of iron. To bring a patient under the tonic treatment, if there be time, Keyes recom- mends the following course:— “ Let him take one standard dose of mercurial (one granule of the protiodide, for example) after each meal, for two or three days. On the fourth day one extra standard dose is added at the mid-day meal; now four standard doses (granules) are taken daily, and this is to be continued for three days [when a fifth is added]. “ On the succeeding fourth day another standard dose is added, two standard doses being now taken after each meal—six granules a day.” The dose is thus increased every third or fourth day, the patient living regularly, and taking bland food until the gums are touched, or until diarrhoea and griping are experienced. When the symptoms are urgent, or when for 1 (a) The Effect of Small Doses of Mercury in modifying the number of the Red Blood Corpuscles in Syphilis. (Am. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1876.) (6) The Internal Treatment of Syphilis. An essay read before the International Medical Congress in Philadelphia in 1876. (Transactions of Int. Med. Congress, Phila., 1877.) (c) Tonic Treatment of Syphilis. New York, 1877. (d) The Venereal Diseases. New York, 1880.