724 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS.E. In many cases the bruit is marked, but distant, not immediately under the ear, as would be the case in a thin-walled aneurism. I have dwelt thus minutely upon the differential diagnosis of an enlargement of this bursa from aneurism, at the expense of some repetition, as it occasion- ally presents a puzzling problem not only to the tyro hut to the experienced surgeon. Bryant reports a case of solid chronic enlargement of this bursa, which filled the whole popliteal space. It was movable, but, as the operation demonstrated, attached to the inner ham-string tendons. Its nature was not suspected, nor its attachments made out, until the incision was made. Mr. Bryant removed the bulk of the tumor down to its central cavity, which was of the size of a walnut, but left the deeper portions. Suppuration occurred in the knee-joint, necessitating amputation. Mr. Bryant confesses his inability to give the points necessary for a correct diagnosis, but records the case so that, others knowing that a solid bursal enlargement may occur in this locality, future errors may be avoided.1 Treatment.—Aspiration, followed by firm pressure, with the limb kept quiet on a splint, seems to have proved successful in cases where any operation has been indicated. In many instances the removal of the cause, viz., over-exer- cise, and the internal administration of constitutional remedies, if gout or rheumatism is proved or suspected, with the inunction of compound iodine ointment, and rest on a splint, will prove amply sufficient. Firm pressure, following the use of blisters, also proves useful in certain cases.2 As a consti- tutional remedy, I have been pleased with the action of the Buffalo Lithia Spring water, given persistently in large doses. Recorded cases where inci- sions into this bursa, as well as into the others which occasionally open into the articulation, have resulted in suppuration of the knee-joint, followed by amputation, and even by death, warn us that aspiration should be the most severe operative procedure resorted to. In the case of this bursa, as well as of other diseased bursae in this region, the French surgeons have used injections of iodine, even when a communication with the joint has been known to exist, and without serious results, although some effusion into the articular tion has usually taken place. The secret of this is that the injection—and this direction must be strictly adhered to—has been made with the limb strongly extended, in which position, as has been already shown, the opening is so perfectly occluded that no amount of pressure can force the fluid into the articulation. Bicipital Bursa.—This bursa, when enlarged, gives rise to some pain and stiffness of the knee in walking. Over-use of the limb is the cause often assigned, but usually either a rheumatic or a gouty diathesis acts as a powerful predisposing cause. The bursa presents itself as a rounded, thin-walled swell- ing, situated at the outside and back of the knee, just above the head of the fibula, near the insertion of the biceps. The tendon of this muscle may be either felt gliding over the tumor, when the limb is alternately flexed and ex- tended,3 or apparently the swelling embraces it.4 It is usually of a moderate size, but may reach that of a large apple. When the knee is flexed, the tumor is slightly mobile and fluctuating; while when the limb is extended, it is fixed and elastic, and does not fluctuate. Except when accidentally inflamed, it is not painful, nor even tender on pressure. Treatment.—The joint should be kept fixed by an appropriate splint, when some form of counter-irritation, with pressure, or this latter measure with 1 Op. cit., pp. 768, 769. 2 See Section on General Treatment of Bursitis for more special therapeutic directions. 8 McEwen, loc. cit. 4 Lancet, vol. xlv. p. 74.