218 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. dent), are those which contain the most inflammable materials; only the heavy high-test oils (flashing at 160° F. and over) which are non-explosive, under ordinary circumstances, should, it is scarcely necessary to say, ever be used for illumination and household purposes. Men who have charge of steam machinery, furnaces, and rolling-mills, or who are employed wherever fires and steam are used, are constantly exposed not only to burns but to scalds. The latter injuries, when at all extensive, are often more serious than burns, not merely from the extent of surface involved, but because they are often complicated by the inhalation of hot steam, which, coming in contact with the fauces and trachea, induces, not infrequently, the most serious results. Children are often burned by drinking, or being splashed b}T, hot fluids, and occasionally they fall into tubs of hot water, as men do into vats of various hot liquids in breweries, and soap and chemical works. Every general hospital has doubtless experienced, as the result of an accident, a sudden influx of a large number of seriously burned or scalded patients. Ballet dancers, and those who wear light, gauzy, and very inflammable dresses, occasionally have their clothing take tire, and in their excitement communicate the flames to those about them. At the Continental Theatre, in Philadelphia, in Septem- ber, 1861, ten female ballet dancers were so severely burned in this way that, after their admission into the Pennsylvania Hospital, six of them died with- out any effort at reaction. In these cases, from the extremely light texture of the dress, the body is at once enveloped in flame, and fatal results are almost inevitable—not only from the depttc of the burns, but from the great extent of surface involved, as well as from the inhalation of destructive gases and of the heated products of combustion, all of which tend to bring about a fatal issue. In years gone by, though not long past, our great lakes and western rivers were not rarely the scenes of frightful steam-boiler explosions, attended with immense loss of life; but these accidents, owing to better construction and more careful inspection of boilers, have within the last few years become very unusual. Burns and scalds occasionally occur on railways, the former being more common during the winter months, when the cars are heated by stoves. Scalds likewise result from boiler explosions incident to collisions, and are generally associated with great loss of life. Curiously enough, upon the great central trunk line of Pennsylvania, upon which casualties are very rare, there occurred, during the summer of 1880, two accidents, almost identical in character ; one was at May’s Landing, New Jersey, near the eastern terminus of the road; the other at Pittsburgh, the western end of the line. In both instances, as a crowded excursion train was advancing in two sections, one a few minutes in advance of the other, the locomotive of the second section overtook the first, and penetrated its rear car, “ telescoping” it. The branch steam-pipe was broken by com- ing in contact with the platform, and the steam escaped into and filled the car which was crowded with passengers, scalding them frightfully, while they were unable to extricate themselves. At May’s Landing, New Jersey, out of some fifty or more who were seriously scalded, more than half died ; and at Pittsburgh, of sixty-five persons who were injured in like manner, thirty perished. Of calamities incident to burning buildings, factories, theatres, and tene- ment bouses, no catastrophe has ever occurred in this country more fatal than the burning of the Brooklyn Theatre on the night of December 6,1876, when more than three hundred persons perished in the flames. Another, and prob- ably the most notable example in recent times, of loss of life from a similar cause, was the burning, in December, 1863, of some sixteen hundred persons, principally women and children, in the church at Santiago, in Chili, which took fire from the fall of some blazing altar-decorations. A boiler explosion on board the ship “ Thunderer,” in 1876, injured some