SNAKE-BITES. 95 The venom is a glutinous, albuminoid liquid, varying in color, but gene- rally yellowish or greenish, acid in reaction, without taste or smell. Neither heat nor cold, acids nor alkalies, long keeping, nor even decomposi- tion, would seem to affect its activity as a poison, when taken into the stomach, it is wholly harmless, as indeed it is everywhere except in the circu- lating blood. It has been said to be hurtful to vegetable life ; but this is dis- proved by experiments. This description of the rattlesnake poison, given by Mitchell, corresponds remarkably with Fayrer’s account of the venom of the Cobra. No thorough chemical analysis of this substance has ever been made, although Dumas1 is said to have found the composition of the Cobra venom to be analogous to that of yeast. At a recent meeting of the Academie de Medecine, in Paris, M. A. Gautier detailed some experiments upon poisons, and said that one curious result he had arrived at was “ that poisons owed their deleterious action to the presence of a neutral and not albuminoid sub- stance, and to that of another alkaloid substance, comparable to the cadaveric alkaloids—the ptomaines—concerning which there has been of late so much discussion, and which exist in variable proportions in the saliva of all animals ; in birds, for example, this alkaloid is found in a state of dilution seven or eight thousand times more marked than in the poison of snakes.”2 These statements cannot be accepted without further inquiry, but they deserve consideration, and may lead to a more fruitful study of the subject. Mortality from Snake-Bites.—Snake-bites are generally very much dreaded, and the popular opinion is that they are almost inevitably fatal. Fayrer says that, in India, the number of deaths per annum from this cause is “per- fectly appalling.” It would appear from the official returns,3 that 10,064 persons were said to have thus lost their lives in Bengal, in 1880; but some doubt is thrown on this estimate by the statement that an immense propor- tion of these cases were really suicides, falsely reported as snake-bites by their friends, “ to save the honor of their families.” Mitchell, in the paper before referred to,4 shows very clearly how it is that many rattlesnake-bites fail of fatal effect, and deduces from an analysis of cases, that recovery occurs in at least seven-eighths of the whole number. Perhaps the greater abundance and activity of the snakes in India, as well as the swarming population, their habits of life and dres3, and their inferior powers of resistance, may account for the fatality of these injuries in that country. It is probable that the poi- son-apparatus is used by snakes against man in self-defence only, as when they are trodden upon or irritated, or startled by a sudden approach. Symptoms of Snake-Bites.—As to the effects of the venom, it has been said, on a previous page, that the dose—the amount received into the system—has much to do with their severity. It is probable, also, that if the poison is discharged into the subcutaneous areolar tissue only, it may induce only local irritation ;5 while if it enters a vein, and thus goes directly into the circulation, the results are much more serious. The part bitten immediately swells and becomes intensely painful, both swelling and pain extending up toward the body. Along with this there is intense congestion, and ecchy- 1 Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter, 1873, p. 216. 2 Gazette Medicale de Paris, Juillet 30, 1881. 3 British Medical Journal, Nov. 12, 1881. 4 North American Medico-Chirurgical Review, March, 1861. 6 As in many other forms of poisoning, the symptoms are sometimes anomalous ; for instance, a case is reported (Lancet, July 9, 1881, p. 75) by an East Indian surgeon, whose name is not given, in which, two hours after the receipt of a snake-bite in the right foot, pain extended up to the groin ; next day it reached the right axilla, and the left forearm and elbow were painful and greatly swollen. Under the use of hot fomentations the man was well in a few days.