537 SYPHILIS OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. ganglion grows little by little, increasing slowly in size without inflamma- tory reaction until a pea or filbert-sized tumor is observed, movable, indolent, and disappearing slowly, only perhaps after months. Treatment often fails to quicken its disappearance. Lymphangeitis is sometimes observed in connection with this glandular engorgement. It is more apt to be met with on the inner side of the upper and lower limbs. The vessels appear as cords under the skin, with enlarge- ments at various points. The late syphilitic affections of the lymphatic glands affect those which are deeply situated. They have only been studied during the past few years. The glands most commonly affected are the abdominal, vertebral, lumbar, iliac, and femoral; then the bronchial and mesenteric glands; lastly those of the limbs. These lesions are not uncommon in the later periods of syphilis. They are apt to occur in connection with visceral lesions, but they may occur inde- pendently. They show no sign during life, and are usually found only on post-mortem examination. Syphilis of Muscles and Tendons. Muscles.—I have already, in treating of the general condition of the sys- tem before and during the outbreak of generalized symptoms, spoken of the peculiar form of muscular contraction due to the influence of the syphilitic poison.1 It therefore remains here only to describe the muscular pains of syphilis, and the gummatous tumors of the muscles. In the early stages of the generalized period of syphilis, certain vague, shifting, rheumatoid pains are observed, seated chiefly about the articulations, or following the course of the muscles and tendons. At a later period, also, somewhat similar pains are noticed at times, involving the muscles, tendons, and fibrous tissues generally. These pains differ, however, from those of the early period of syphilis, in being fixed and persistent, instead of coming and going, now in one place and now in another, like the early lesions. Both the early and the late forms of syphilitic rheumatoid pains are amenable to treatment. Syphilitic tumor of the muscles has been well described by Bouisson,2 who divides the affection into three stages. In the first, the muscle becomes the seat of a perceptible, circumscribed swelling, without pain. The second stage sees the gradual softening of the tumor, the contents of which become a gummy and stringy liquid. Sometimes the tumor, instead of following the ordinary chronic, indolent course, assumes acute symptoms, becomes painful, hot, red, etc., presenting every appearance of an acute abscess. Bouisson thinks that some cases of pelvic abscess, of psoitis, and of inflammation of the iliac muscle, may be referred to this disorder. In the third stage, the tumor no longer softens, but becomes of an almost cartilaginous hardness, and even bony. These muscular ossifications may occasionally be accom- panied by exostoses. The tumors under consideration may be observed in the muscles of the thigh or calf, in the trapezius, sterno-mastoid, pectoralis major, etc. They are commonest, however, in the tongue, though they may be met with any- where. Occurring in the larynx, they may be mistaken for laryngeal phthisis. 1 See p. 487. In addition to the references there given the following may be mentioned: Notta, Sur la Retraction Musoulaire Syphilitique. Archives Gen. de Med., Dec. 1856. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med., D6c. 1850.