GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 205 one: in only seventeen cases of spinal injury during our war was there hemorrhage of any importance—but fourteen of these terminated fatally. In all other respects, the treatment of gunshot spinal injuries is the same as that of like accidents produced by ordinary traumatisms. The maintenance of rest, as absolute as possible, is very essential; and much benefit will without doubt be often secured by immobilization of the spine, preferably by plaster-of-Paris. Dry-cupping, in cases of concussion, and wet-cupping in those in which meningo-myelitis has supervened, have been regarded with much favor by many military surgeons. The bladder should be regularly catlieterized; the bowels relieved at proper intervals; and bedsores prevented if possible by the use of the water-bed, by change of position, and by mildly stimulating local applications. Blood-poisoning, so much favored by the nature of the injury of a vertebral body, may perhaps be largely prevented by an antiseptic dressing. Paralysis, not disappearing speedily and spon- taneously, should be treated in the usual way. Gunshot Injuries of the Extremities. By far the larger part of the gunshot wounds coming under treatment in time of war,1 and a very considerable though decidedly less proportion of those met with in civil life, are of the extremities ; injuries of the lower, are about one-half more numerous than those of the upper extremity, and the general mortality is between 20 and 25 per cent, for the former, and about 12 per cent, for the latter. The left side is more often wounded than the right. As in other regions, the injuries may involve the soft parts only, or the bones and joints may also be damaged—the gravity of any wound being, as a rule, proportionate to the extent of the existing osfeeous or articular lesion. Joint wounds have already been considered. (See page 153.) Upper Extremity. Flesh Wounds of this region, though very frequent,2 and liable to be fol- lowed in large proportion by more or less disabling cicatricial contractions and adhesions, are, when there is no associated wound of the neck or trunk, dangerous to life only as they are very extensive (as for instance when caused by heavy shot, shell fragments, or fowling-piece charges at short range), as they involve the main vessels, or as they are attended by the graver wound- complications. The treatment therefore, aside from that proper for all gunshot injuries— the discovery and removal of foreign bodies, maintenance of rest, moderation of inflammation, relief of tension, drainage of the wound, etc.—has reference to the arrestation of hemorrhage, the meeting of special symptoms as they may arise, and the exercise of such care in dressing as shall prevent or lessen as far as possible cicatricial deformity and false anchylosis. Divided arteries, if other than small ones, should be ligated above and below the point of injury; but even when thus treated, the probabilities of such cases terminat- ing fatally are very great. 1 Of over 130,000 oases tabulated by Longmore, nearly 67 per cent, were of the extremities— 28 per cent, of the upper, and 39 per cent, of the lower ; and Otis’s table, including nearly twice as many cases more, 360,000 in all, shows that one-third of the entire number were of the upper extremity. 2 “ Over fifty thousand cases, or about a fifth of all the wounded reported by name, were returned as shot flesh wounds of the upper extremities.” (Otis.)