THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 252 and in fact, the form of minor importance, with slight local congestion attended by itching and tenderness, is that most usually seen. Such attacks are observed in those who, after a moderate degree of exposure to dry cold air, or even cold moist air, suddenly approach the tire to relieve their chilly feelings. The sudden transition of temperature proves too much for the de- bilitated cutaneous surface, and, as the result, chilblains are produced, the degree of the affection being generally in proportion to the severity and dura- tion of the exposure. The fingers, toes, and heels are liable to suffer most particularly, and those parts of the face usually exposed, such as the ears, nose, and lips. Children are more apt to suffer in this way than adults, and persons of delicate constitution, with languid circulation, and with feeble powers of developing the energy requisite for the production of vital heat, are peculiarly subject to chilblains. Treatment of Chilblains.—Two questions here naturally arise, viz.: (1) How is it possible to avoid chilblains? and (2) How may they be relieved when formed ? Pernio is often thought to be of such trivial importance, that its treatment is neglected. It is true that in ordinary cases the consequences are not of much gravity, but, as serious results occasionally supervene, at least a moderate degree of care should be given both to its prevention and to its cure. In order to avoid chilblains, the use of warm flannel stockings for the feet, and likewise of warm coverings for the hands and exposed parts of the face, in those subject to this affection, is necessary. When there is a languid circu- lation, a moderate degree of friction with a coarse towel or flesh brush will be found of service. Attention to the temperature of the body, as well as to that of the surrounding atmosphere, is of great importance both during the cold of winter and the heat of summer. Any sudden approach to a fire, after being exposed to cold, is most likely to develop chilblains. In our northern climate, a common, and in fact a speedy means of rendering relief, in the milder forms of pernio, is the application of snow with moderate friction; and even the application of iced-water is found to be beneficial under such circumstances. Too vigorous rubbing must be avoided, in order not to remove the skin over the congested parts, which, after being thus treated, must be well dried and covered with flannel. This plan, although not always congenial to the patient’s feelings, is found to answer every purpose, and, if necessary, may be aided by the subsequent application of tincture of iodine, where the chilblain is not broken. Camphor liniment, soap liniment with opium, tincture of benzoin, simple spirit, tincture of myrrh, a strong solution of alum with vinegar, a mixture of equal parts of oil of turpentine and balsam of copaiba, a solution containing the liquor plurnbi subacetatis, tincture of cantharides (one part to six of soap liniment), carded cotton, and various other substances, have been employed in this affec- tion. After careful observation, I pin my faith more to tincture of iodine, as a local application, than to any of the other remedies so far recommended. Careful drying of the parts, moderate and gradual application of heat, and subsequent,careful protection of the surface by warm stockings or flannel, will, however, be found the most important factors in the treatment of these conditions. Should any of the secondary consequences arise, such as ulcera- tions, etc., these would have to be treated as ifnder other circumstances. [Mr. T. Smith, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London, has called attention to the fact that the burning and itching in chilblains sometimes occurs in periodical paroxysms, and suggests that, if the convenience of the patient should so dic- tate, the time of the paroxysms might be hastened by dipping the affected part for a short time in a hot bath containing mustard.]