ASEPTIC METHOD APPLIED TO WOUNDS NOT MADE BY THE SURGEON. 79 conveniently done by using the acid mixed with carbolic glycerine, of the con- sistence of cream. This lias the effect of preventing the troublesome eczema which sometimes occurs under dressings left on for some time. If the surgeon does not have a spray at hand for the purpose of changing the dressings, its use may be rendered unnecessary by the employment of catgut drains and catgut stitches, and by fixing down the deep dressing so that the wound is not exposed when the outer dressing is removed. This deep dressing is treated like a wound, is washed with the lotion and covered with a piece of wet gauze overlapping it in all directions, and a fresh dressing is applied. If it be necessary to expose the wound, it is well, by means of a syringe, to let a current of carbolic lotion flow over it when it is exposed. In some cases, especially in country practice, it is desirable to leave the dressing unchanged for some days. This may be done in various ways, but perhaps the best is by the application of large masses of carbolic, salicylic, or iodoform jute, as recommended recently by l)r. Heuber. Wounds near the rectum may be treated aseptically, but here the carbolic gauze is not applicable. For this purpose carbolic acid and oil, or carbolic acid and glycerine, 1-10, is employed. This is especially useful in cases of abscess near the anus. The abscess is opened under the spray, and, instead of a drainage-tube, a narrow strip of lint dipped in 1-5 carbolic oil is intro- duced. Then, outside this, is applied a mass of lint dipped in the glycerine and carbolic acid, which is fastened by a T-bandage. For some days the patient’s bowels are kept at rest by opium, and afterwards, when he defecates, he holds the pad over the wound with his hand, defecates past it, washes the part with some 1-20 carbolic lotion, and pours fresh glycerine on the lint, or applies a new piece. The Aseptic Method applied to Wounds not made by the Surgeon. These wounds are essentially of two classes: those which come under treat- ment at once, or within a few hours; and those which are not seen for some days after their infliction, till, in fact, fermentation has become firmly estab- lished. I. Wounds which come under Observation early.—Here the problem is different from that wThich we have been considering. As yet we have merely had to exclude micro-organisms from wounds, but in these instances they have, in many cases, already entered, and we must extirpate them, and keep them out afterwards. To extirpate them, the wound is washed out with 1-20 carbolic lotion, or, in cases in which some hours have elapsed since the inflic- tion of the injury, with 1-5 solution of carbolic acid in rectified spirit. Let us take, for example, a case of compound fracture. Here we have a compli- cated wound ; air and dust may have been sucked into all its recesses, and have mixed with the blood-clot. The end of a gum-elastic catheter, connected with a syringe, is introduced into the wound, and the purifying solution is driven in through this. By means of the catheter, the carbolic lotion can be introduced into all the recesses of the wound. Care must be taken to leave the external wound freely open, so that the injected fluid may escape readily, for otherwise there would be a danger of the fluid penetrating among the layers of the cellular tissue, and causing inflammation, or even gangrene. It is ■well to squeeze out all the blood-clots. The drainage of the wound is next attended to, and, if necessary, the external opening is enlarged. The frag- ments are then brought into position, and the protective, wet gauze, and