GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 144 civil practice, severe compound injuries, very analogous to those produced by gunshot violence, have under this plan of treatment been recovered from in extraordinarily large numbers, is a fact that cannot be disputed. That local and general diseases, unquestionably consequent upon wound-infection, have been very greatly lessened in frequency of occurrence, and that, too, in hos- pitals where previously they had been most prevalent, is undeniable. Are the changes that have lately taken place in the course of wounds due to their less frequent disturbance, their more careful cleansing, their more complete drainage; or are they due to the employment of germ-destroying agents, or to the filtration of septic organisms from the air that is permitted to come in contact with the injured tissues ? The question may be readily answered; but will future experience prove the correctness of the answer ? If the “ antiseptic treatment” is to be carried out in its strictness, the in- jured man must not be touched until it is possible to antiseptically explore the wound, remove the foreign bodies, make the necessary counter-openings, put in the required drainage-tubes, and apply the investing coverings and bandage. All this can never or only very exceptionally be done on the field; and the primary dressing must consist in simply covering the wound with an antiseptic tampon of “ salicylic wool contained in salicylic gauze, and inclosed in a square of oiled paper” (Esmarch), or of “ chloride of zinc jute inclosed in gauze” (Bardele- ben), and holding this tampon in place by a bandage. Possibly, some other agents (such as boracic acid, eu- calyptol, or iodoform) may hereafter prove more ad- vantageous and of easier application. “Nothing is more diastrous to the possibility of an aseptic course than the ‘ regulation search’ immediately after the receipt of the injury, and the repeated examination of the wound by the finger or instruments to discover the ball, or to diagnose the extent of the damage to the bone. It is impossible for either finger or instrument to be clean.” (MacCormac.) Ho harm will result, it is claimed, from a delay of one or even two days in the examination of the wound, providing that the above mentioned tam- pon is kept constantly applied, a clean one being substituted for the soiled one as often as may be necessary. Cammerer, in the Servian war, found it possible to render the wound aseptic even as late as two weeks after the receipt of the injury. If fracture of an extremity has occurred, immobilization is to be at once effected as perfectly as may be possible. When the patient has finally reached the “ thoroughly well organized hospital” in which he is to be treated— “Any foreign bodies (bullets, bits of bone, fragments of clothes) which may be found, should be removed. Should any nerve trunks or tendons have been divided, their extremities must be sought for and sewn together, either with fine catgut or carbolized silk. The whole wound must now be thoroughly disinfected, either by irrigation or by rubbing in chloride of zinc or strong carbolic solution, taking care that the fluid gets into every little recess. After counter-openings have been made in suitable places, and drainage-tubes put in, the wound must be closed with antiseptic sutures, and finally the antiseptic compressive dressing applied.” (Esmarch.) The results of this system of treating severe gunshot wounds, as practised by one or two of the few surgeons who have made considerable trial of it in recent wars, we shall notice hereafter, when upon the subject of bone and joint injuries. Early in 1871, A. Guerin, having, during the preceding six months of the siege of Paris, lost all but one of his amputation cases, adopted Fig. 254. Bardeleben’s antiseptic tampon.