GENERAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 575 the sole of the right foot; this is repeated the next night on the left foot, and so on alternate nights the right and left foot are anointed with half a drachm of the preparation. This may be increased to a drachm or more if the patient stands the mercurial well. The stockings should be worn continuously night and day for a week, at the expiration of which time the feet may be thor- oughly cleansed with hot water and soap, and the treatment suspended for a few days, and then recommenced. The unguentum hydrargyri may be used instead of the oleate of mercury, and in fact I commonly prefer it to the more elegant preparation, because it seems to me that it is absorbed more readily. During the inunction treatment, the condition of the mouth and gums is to be carefully looked after, and it is well to use one of the astringent washes given above. Mercurial suppositories, composed of about half a drachm of mercurial oint- ment and a sufficient quantity of butter of cacao, introduced into the rectum at night, have been employed. I have never used them, and as they give rise to local irritation, I think they are not to be recommended. Hypodermic Injection.—The hypodermic injection of mercurials for the treatment of syphilis has been highly recommended by a number of European authorities,1 but lias never found extensive employment in this country, since the injections are followed by considerable pain, often lasting for some hours, and since, in spite of every precaution, abscesses will occasionally form at the point of insertion of the needle. Bumstead and Taylor recommend the following formula:— R—Hydrarg. chlor. corros. gr. xl. Giycerinag, f3j. Aquae destillat, fjvj. M. Twelve drops of this solution contain about one-eighth of a grain of the sublimate, and are used for each injection. In employing mercury by hypodermic injection, a comparatively insensitive portion of the skin should be selected, and a locality where abscesses are not very apt to form. The infrascapular regions, the loins, and the upper portions of the nates are the best points for the introduction of the needle. As it is supposed that mercury exerts a local action in hastening the disappearance of the lesions, it may in some cases be advisable to employ the injections in or near affected parts. The same syringe should never be used on syphilitic and non-syphilitic persons. The point of the needle should be kept sharp and polished. The hypodermic method is objected to by patients in private practice, and it is best to confine its employment to such cases as from some cause may contra-indicate the use of other methods of treatment, or where it is desirable to get the full effect of the drug with great rapidity. Patients are unquestion- ably relieved from external symptoms with more rapidity by this method than by other modes of treatment. Iodine and its Compounds.—Iodine and its compounds are ordinarily useful in direct ratio to the duration of the disease. Their action on the early 1 See Wiggleswortli, Subcutaneous injection of corrosive sublimate in syphilis (Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Aug. 26, and Sept. 2, 1869); Lewin, Behandlung der Syphilis mit subcutaner Sublimat-injection. Berlin, 1879 ; Staub, Traitement de la Syph. par les Injections Ilypoder- miques de Sublime &, l’etat de Solution Chloro-albumineuse. Paris, 1872; Bamberger (Zeit. d. best. Ap. Ver., 1876, 147, 177; and New Remedies, New York, 1876, pp. 167, 175); Giinz, Ueber subcutane Injection mit Bioyanuretum Hydrargyri bei syphilitischen Erkrankungen (Wien. med. Presse, 1880).