SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 606 but many who can handle the vine, Rhus toxicodendron, with impunity, are poisoned by the tree, Rhus venenata, so much more virulent is the latter. Actual contact with the plants is not in all cases necessary for the production of their poisonous effects, on account of the volatility of their active princi- ple ; and there is good reason to believe that persons highly sensitive to the poison not unfrequently suffer on passing by places where the vine grows abundantly. The plant is supposed to be most actively virulent during the flowering season, in early summer, hut cases of poisoning occur with great frequency throughout the autumn, when the leaves take on their seductive coloring. Even in the winter, the twigs and stems are often found still alive for mischief by those who handle them. The peculiar effect of the poison is of the same character upon the skin of all who are affected by it, differing only in degree of intensity and extent of distribution, viz., an inflammation of the eczematous type. It is characterized by an eruption of vesicles, at times of a peculiar lurid or brownish-red color, which may subsequently burst and exhibit the later phases of this efflores- cence, as in other forms of dermatitis. In severe cases we have multiplica- tion of the number of vesicles, either single or massed in groups, covering large surfaces, or by fusion forming blebs. In addition, there are more or less redness and oedema of the surrounding integument, sometimes to a very marked degree, so that great deformity may thus be produced, the face of the patient being changed out of all possibility of recognition. These changes in the tissue of the skin are accompanied by intense itching and burning, and often great suffering is undergone by the patient in consequence. There is rarely, however, any constitutional disturbance. If then the cutaneous manifestations are those of acute eczema, have they no individuality by which they may be distinguished? There are differences to be recognized by the practised eye, but they are more easily detected than described. The erup- tion appears most easily, therefore generally first, upon the lateral surfaces of the fingers, or along their edges ; at a later period, upon the dorsal surfaces; and last, upon the thickened palms. It is more scattered and more irregular in its distribution than that of ordinary eczema. The character of the efflo- rescence, too, is strikingly peculiar, although indescribable. It is more uni- formly vesicular than vesicular eczema. The vesicles appear less transparent, as if the effusion of serum had taken place in the lowest layers of the rete, and they have at times a peculiar tinge of color, as if slightly hemorrhagic from the intensity of the inflammation. Upon the palmar surface, the epidermal coverings of the vesicles are so dense that they look and feel more like papules. In its later stages, those of involution, the skin returns to its natural state without any marked change in the character of the efflorescence. In mild cases, the inflammatory process is seldom carried so far as to trans- form the vesicle into a pustule, and, after reaching its height, its serous con- tents are slowly absorbed, and it flattens down, leaving a fugitive, dull-colored stain to mark its seat. In the severer forms, the cedema and hypersemia rapidly subside under treatment, and the excoriations, crusts, and infiltration, disappear in the same manner as in acute eczema. The eruption generally shows itself within three or four days after contact, sometimes within twenty- four hours, and the duration of the attack depends largely upon the pro- traction of the period during which fresh efflorescences manifest themselves. This generally lasts from ten to fourteen days from the appearance of the first eruption. Even in the severest cases, where the changes of tissue reach their highest possible development, and affect large surfaces of the body, the dura- tion of the whole process of evolution and involution rarely exceeds three or four weeks. Is o scars or permanent injury to the skin are to be apprehended. There is no ground for the popular belief that the poison renews its activity