ANTHRAX OR CARBUNCLE. 319 But the explanation given by Dr. Warren seems to leave little that can be controverted. He has been the first to call the attention of histologists to the existence of small columns of adipose tissue leading from the panniculus adi- posus up to the roots of the lanugo hairs, taking an oblique direction in a line with the erectores pilorum. The inflammation resulting in suppuration of the subcutaneous adipose tissue, must either form an abscess or become diffuse. In phlegmonous erysipelas, the latter condition is observed. But when the inflammation is in the dermoid texture, the exudates infiltrate the skin, and naturally follow the canals occupied by the “columns adiposge.” The pres- sure thus exerted upon the whole dermoid tissue cannot fail to strangulate the circulation, and thus produce gangrene of the tissue, even if the exudate be not poisonous enough to destroy the cell by its presence. It can, by this explanation, be easily understood why this disease is apt to affect the skin on the nape of the neck and the back more than on other parts of the body, although, as has been said, it may occur elsewhere. At tliis point the skin is dense, its fibrous element extending deep into the adipose layer, which is surrounded with strong bands; hence, the pus confined in such a place, seek- ing the easiest outlet, will travel along these miniature adipose canals, pro- ducing the peculiar appearance already described as pathognomonic of car- buncle. We also recognize the reason for the development of the disease, when occurring in this place, to such huge proportions as it often assumes. The firmness of the tissue extrudes the pus laterally, as well as along these minute canals. Symptoms of Carbuncle.—The constitutional symptoms are not usually severe, unless resulting from septicsemia, but they may have every grade of severity until they reach a fatal result. At first, the fever is slight, the patient suffering chiefly from loss of appetite, furred tongue, and general malaise, superadded to the local distress, which is often very great. As the process of suppuration and destruction goes on in the tissue, graver symp- toms appear, the pulse rising to 100, 110, 120, or even higher. But we often find a large carbuncle running its course while the patient has but slight fever and is not confined to his bed. On the other hand, I have known a carbuncle, not more than an inch in diameter, and not presenting severe local symptoms, occurring upon the back of a man 28 years of age, prove fatal in five days. Prognosis.—Death is not infrequently the result of. this disease. Exhaus- tion from sloughing is sometimes the cause of death, and occasionally it is produced by hemorrhage or by embolism. But it is obvious that the great source of danger is septicaemia, which may be exhibited in all its phases by the direct action of the poison on the blood, or by the production of second- ary abscesses. In seven thousand eight hundred cases of carbuncle reported in our army during the War of the Rebellion, there were only eleven deaths. These results are so much better than are observed in civil practice, that the inference is justifiable that the fatality in early adult life is but slight, except in the facial form of the disease. Treatment.—The treatment of carbuncle is more various than in most other diseases of the sloughing kind. The common method is to make two incis- ions, at right angles to each other, crossing at the centre, and extending through the hardened base at the border. This would seem to be the most natural mode of evacuating the pus, and of taking off the strain made by pressure upon the skin as well as upon the subcutaneous tissue, through which the in- cisions should extend. It comports with our practice wherever we find pus,