396 GONORRHOEA. of the os where the patches are situated lose their epithelium and are transformed into ulcers. Very often, when mucous patches have not been observed, there is a slight erosion of the orifice of the os, a muco-purulent catarrh of the neck, and a hypertrophy of the entire organ, the neck especially becoming large and hard. This inflammation, and this fibro-muscular hypertrophy of the neck, are certainly not always caused by syphilis. But if the neck of the uterus in young girls affected with simple vaginitis, who have never had children or miscarriages, is compared with that of girls of the same age who are suffering with syphilis, it is at once very evident that the syphilitic patients have the neck of the uterus enlarged and affected with a catarrhal inflammation ; while it is small and normal in simple vaginitis. The only lesion observed in the latter is the redness of the vaginal mucous membrane continued over the os uteri. It may there- fore be rationally concluded that the inflammation of the neck is sometimes directly due to syphilis, as are vulvitis and vaginitis, without necessarily the presence of mucous patches upon the neck.” Symptoms and Complications.—Vaginitis following purulent infection usually begins at the lower and posterior aspect of the canal. It is at first attended with a feeling of weight and fulness, sometimes referred to the rectum, and with a dry, glazed, congested appearance of the mucous mem- brane. Cases are described by Ricord and others, in which, through a con- siderable period, this condition, which then involves the larger portion of the vagina, obstinately persists, finally subsiding without the production of a drop of discharge. I have never met with this variety of gonorrhoea, and if it were not for the distinguished authority upon which it rests, would be- lieve that a passive congestion, such as is often seen during pregnancy, or in patients with uterine or other abdominal tumors, had been mistaken for a vaginitis. Usually after the lapse of a few hours a mucoid discharge appears, rapidly becomes purulent, and, when the disease involves an increasing extent of surface, as it generally does, is very profuse, soiling the posterior portion of the patient’s linen, and trickling down her thighs and over her perineum, unless restrained by suitable dressings. The subjective symptoms, although not often as marked as in vulvitis, are occasionally very characteristic, and are due, in the first place, to the proximity of the bladder and rectum to the inflamed canal, and in the second, to the nervous connections of the region giving rise to certain reflex phenomena. Under the first of these classes may be enumerated vesical irritability and tenesmus, aching or throbbing pelvic or hypogastric pain, hemorrhoids, dysenteric symptoms, prolapsus uteri, etc.; under the latter, sciatic, crural lumbar, and abdominal pains, which last symptom, when it is observed in hysterical women, and is associated, as it is then apt to be, with tympanitic distension and apparent tenderness of the abdomen, may lead to the erroneous diagnosis of peritonitis, a complication which actually occurs in a very small number of cases. Its absence may be ascertained by attention to the pulse and particularly to the temperature of the patient, and by powerfully attract- ing her attention away from herself while at the same time firm pressure is made upon the abdominal walls. The same increase of sexual desire is found in these patients as in cases of vulvitis, but to a much less marked degree. On the other hand, however, coition is not usually attended with an equal amount of pain as when the vulva is involved, and it is more easy for the woman to conceal the fact that she is diseased ; the temptation, therefore, either to yield to her impulses, or to avoid pecuniary loss by continuing her occupation, is at least equally great, and the enforcement of rest and of continence is quite as difficult. Sometimes when the inflammation has been very intense and the discharge has been retained, extensive though superficial ulceration of the vagina