POPLITEAL BURSiE. 725 inunction of compound iodine ointment, should be resorted to. If this fails, careful aspiration, followed by counter-irritation, rest, and pressure, is the best treatment. For such cases as resist the above measures, perseveringly carried out, some of the other more radical plans mentioned under the head of Subacute or Chronic Bursitis may be tried. Acute bursitis must be treated, here as elsewhere, upon the general principles already laid down under the appropriate heading. Semi-membranosus Bursa.—Here, also, pain and stiffness of the joint are complained of. This bursa, when enlarged, takes the form of a circular— sometimes obliquely ovoid-—tense, firm, slightly mobile, non-painful tumor of moderate size, situated at the inner and lower border of the popliteal space. It can hardly come into relation with the artery, and its diagnosis must depend upon the above characteristics and upon its situation. Treatment.—Rest, with a splint if necessary, pressure after blistering, and in fact those measures suggested for the treatment of the other popliteal bursae, must be tried. Popliteus Bursa.—I am aware of only one case, recorded by Verneuil,1 of enlargement of one of these sacs, but of which, seems doubtful. There was in this case also a so-called white-swelling of the knee. The tumor was removed by excision, and the case did well. A bursal tumor in the situation occupied by this sac would probably present the symptoms common to the other popliteal bursae when enlarged, and should be treated very cautiously upon the principles already laid down, since, although it does not usually communicate with the joint, it may do so. The bursa beneath the popliteus tendon, between it and the bone, is, as has already been pointed out, merely a diverticulum of the synovial capsule of the knee-joint, and, in consequence, cannot become enlarged unless the joint also contains some effused fluid, or, either by its history or its present appearances, indicates the previous exist- ence of some articular affection. External Gastrocnemius Bursa.—The bursa occasionally found beneath the external head of the gastrocnemius, has been in one instance reported as enlarged. There was an obscure, small swelling under the outer head of the muscle, which appeared suddenly during dancing or walking, sometimes compelling rest in bed and active antiphlogistic measures to relieve the agonizing pain, at others being relieved by a few minutes’ rest in the hori- zontal posture. Pain was elicited on pressure, or when the calf-muscles com- pressed the tumor, either by standing on the toes or strongly flexing the foot. Rest and antiphlogistics, followed by blisters, firm bandaging, and a knee- cap, relieved, but did not cure, this case.2 Foucher describes some other bursae occasionally found in this region, which are so unusual, and of such uncertain origin and symptoms, as not to warrant any special description. Their existence as well as that of the syno- vial cysts before cited as having been noted by W. M. Baker, should be borne in mind, as their presence may explain conditions found in certain cases, which could not be accounted for by enlargement of any of the normal burs* of the part.3 1 Mem. de la Soc. de Cliirurg., Paris, t. ii. p. 369. 2 Johnson. 3 I will here express my great indebtedness to the admirable papers of McEwen and Foucher, from which I have chiefly drawn my information, and to which I would refer those desirous of further details upon this interesting but much misunderstood and neglected subject.