190 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. bleeding may be prevented, but if the dyspnoea becomes extreme, the wound must be reopened and the blood allowed to escape. If the outflow is not sufficiently abundant, aspiration or paracentesis may be practised ; or a free incision may be made in an intercostal space, and, if necessary, the pleural sac may be thoroughly washed out; such an opening of the cavity can do little or no harm, air having already gained access from the tirst along the track of the bullet. The old time treatment of chest wounds by venesection is not to be adopted, since it will almost certainly but add to already dangerous conditions, that of “ irrecoverable exhaustion.” Pneumothorax, if producing severe dyspnoea, which is not of common occurrence, should be relieved by tapping. Puru- lent accumulations, whether due to decomposition of blood from the entrance of air either from without or from the wounded lung, or to general pleuritis, may at times be removed by aspiration or by tapping, but are, as a rule, best treated by free incision with or without removal of part of a rib or ribs, and by subsequent cleansing of the cavity and maintenance of drainage, which should be as thorough as possible. Very generally, however, though temporary relief is thus afforded, cases of gunshot empyema sooner or later terminate fatally. That recovery may take place in cases of great severity, is well illustrated by a case reported by Schneider of Konigsberg, in which after a pistol-ball wound of the chest smashing the fourth rib, pyo-pneumo-hcemothorax occurred, together with sloughing of the upper lobe of the lung. In order that the ribs might close in upon the unfilled cavity, resection was practised—part of the clavicle and pieces of the second, third, fifth, and sixth ribs, of from two to four and a half inches in length, from the costo- chondral junction outwardly, being removed. The resection wounds healed by first intention, the chest wall collapsed, and the man recovered. The ordinary, limited, pleural and pulmonary inflammation along the track of the wound requires no special treatment. The lung injury may be so perfectly recovered from that auscultation will fail to indicate that any damage has been done, but usually the physical signs of the existence of condensed cicatricial tissue will ever after be present. Tubercular disease has ultimately been developed in a considerable proportion of the patients who have apparently completely recovered from lung wounds ; but in what degree this disease has been really consequent upon the injury, it is impossi- ble to determine. A quickly appearing hernia of the lung, if seen before any inflammation or strangulation has taken place, should, if the protruding portion is un- wounded, be, if possible, at once reduced, the opening in the chest wall being enlarged if necessary, and a retentive dressing being afterwards applied; at least once (Angelo’s case), such a reduction has been successfully effected. When injured or already inflamed, the protrusion should be left undisturbed. If there has been a wound of the diaphragm, and a portion of the contents of the abdominal cavity protrudes, similar treatment should be adopted. In- juries of the pericardium and heart, which do not quickly cause death, should be treated at first by rest, cold, and closure of the external wound, the latter being subsequently reopened if symptoms of dangerous compression are manifested; in the beginning, however, every effort is to be directed towards preventing or arresting hemorrhage, and favoring speedy cicatrization of the internal wounds. The same principles should govern the surgeon in the treatment of mediastinal wounds attended with much bleeding, but without associated heart lesion. Stimulation if resorted to at all, must be so with great care and judgment. At a later period, if pericarditis and endocarditis are developed—and, while frequent, such inflammations are not necessary con- sequences of the injury—they are to be treated in the usual way.