SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 644 the female sex rather more frequently than the male. In America it is by no means a common disease, although the mistake is often made of calling any destructive disease upon the face lupus. Its relations to sci'ofulosis or struma are problematical. With syphilis it has no demonstrable connection. It is neither contagious nor hereditary. Prognosis.—The course of lupus is always chronic. Beginning in early childhood, it may continue for years confined to a single small patch, or dis- seminated widely over the surface. It may cease to be active after long or short duration, and after many years, even in old age, may revive. Its effect upon the general system, even when of extensive distribution and long con- tinuance, is very slight. It is capable of local cure in its simpler manifesta- tions, but relapses cannot be prevented. Morbid Anatomy.—According to Kaposi, whose studies of its tissue changes are the most recent and elaborate, lupus presents in its early stages globular accumulations of small cells, situated between the bundles of fibrous tissue of the corium, beneath the vascular layer; thence the cells follow along the course of the vessels into the papillie, around the glandular systems, and gradually diffuse themselves throughout the whole structure of the corium. At a later period, the sebaceous and hair follicles undergo atrophy, and per- ish, and, in the process of involution, the lupus cells themselves undergo fatty degeneration. In the subsequent stages of exfoliation, ulceration, cicatriza- tion, new growth of connective tissue, etc., the anatomical changes are the same as those which characterize similar processes in other diseases. Treatment.—There is no specific internal remedy for lupus, no drug which will cause the characteristic tubercle to disappear, or prevent the recurrence of the disease. When, however, the general system is reduced, or when anaemia or functional disturbances are present, much may often be accom- plished, by the administration of medicines, in bringing the tissues into a condition to respond more readily to local measures. The most valuable of these medicines are iron, cod-liver oil, and iodide of potassium. They may be used as long as the patient seems to need their general action upon the economy. The objects to be accomplished by local treatment are the direct desti’uction of the lupus growth, and the restoration of the skin, as far as possible, to its normal condition. The first object may be accomplished by the use of so-called caustics or mechanical means. Of the former, a great number have been employed, but among them all there is none so serviceable, on the whole, as the stick of nitrate of silver, as it is in itself a tool which may be made to penetrate to the deepest parts of the disease, and as its action, while sufficiently destructive, is never excessive. A stout stick of the pure salt, well sharpened by boring into a wet sponge, or the prepared crayon hardened by a mixture of chloride of silver, is to be fitted into a handle, and then bored firmly into the nodules, whether prominent or bedded deeply in the integument. They are easily penetrated by the sharp point, giving the im- pression of boggy tissue to the operator. The skin is to be thoroughly ploughed up in this way, wherever the stick is allowed admission. The ex- perienced hand soon learns to distinguish the resistance offered by the normal tissues. When the disease is in the stage of exfoliation or in that of ulceration, the scales and crust are to be roughly torn away by the stick, and the surface or underlying softened parts thoroughly bored into. The bleeding may be always readily checked with absorbing cotton, or lint, and a little pressure. This operation is painful, but patients will ordinarily endure it, if the disease