683 PERI-OECAL CELLULITIS. incision through the integument will not answer, not even in those eases where the disease seems to be limited to the subcutaneous cellular tissue. In all cases the bone should be touched by the edge of the knife. By this means all the tension made by the exudates and proliferation of cells will be relieved. The intense pain will be removed in a few hours, the pus that forms will find a ready outlet, and the finger will be saved from all distressing sequeke. It is also good practice to make a free incision in old cases where the pus has already made an exit for itself externally; this procedure hastens a favorable termination, and limits the destruction of bone, which, in such a case, has probably already commenced. All incisions should be followed by hot poultices, and by thorough cleansing with antiseptic solutions when the wound begins to granulate. Gentle pressure should be made around the phalanx by means of adhesive plaster or a finger bandage. This should be tight enough to close somewhat the gap on the finger, but not tight enough to interfere with the circulation. Peri-Ctecal Cellulitis (Peri-typhlitis).•—This disease is of much more fre- quent occurrence than was formerly supposed. Modern methods of investi- gation have rendered its diagnosis a matter of certainty, and placed its treat- ment on a practical and scientific basis. In the majority of cases the disease results from the impaction of some foreign body in the appendix vermiformis or walls of the caecum ; ulceration ensues, and an opening is made in the wall, through which the foreign body makes its way into the cellular tissue out- side. Fecal matter is apt to pass through also. In such eases the inflamma- tion is much more severe and dangerous than when caused simply by the presence of a cherry stone, peach pit, or other foreign material of a similar character. Peri-csecal cellulitis nearly always terminates in suppuration. A second attack is not as apt to be followed by suppuration, as the first. Second at- tacks do not arise, as a rule, from perforation of the gut, but are due to slight injuries of the organized mass of lymph which resulted from the first inflam- mation. Symptoms.—In peri-csecal cellulitis the symptoms are not at first very well defined. Usually the patient complains for several days of colicky pains in the bowels, not confined to the vicinity of the caecum, but shooting across the lower part of the abdomen. There are also disordered digestion, loss of appetite, and flatulence. The patient is restless and uneasy, and at night is feverish and unable to sleep; the pain is aggravated while at stool, but subse- quently passes away, leaving the patient for a few hours comparatively com- fortable, and seemingly free from any serious affection. If pressure is made during this interval, it will give rise to more or less pain. Very soon all the symptoms return with increased activity, and in the course of a week from the commencement of the disease, careful palpation over the involved organs will show a swelling, not well defined in outline, hard and painful to the touch, and deep-seated. Steady pressure over it causes starting pains in other portions of the abdomen. The febrile symptoms at this time are also well marked. The temperature varies from 101° F. to 103° F., seldom rising higher unless some complication is present, and the pulse ranges from 105 to 120. The tongue is coated and the face somewhat anxious. The stomach is irritable, and in some cases little or no nourishment can be retained. Consti- pation alternates with diarrhoea throughout the disease. The bladder is irri- table, and there are frequent calls to urinate, each urination being accompa- nied by more or less pain. In a day or two longer all the symptoms are aggravated, the lesion is perceptible on inspection in the iliac region, and is