SYPHILIS. 498 Papulo-Squamous Syphiloderm. (7) Duration relatively short compared with that of psoriasis. (8) The lesions rapidly disappear under the influence of mercury. (9) Antecedent or even concomitant syphilitic manifestations. Psoriasis. (7) Duration always long. Frequently a history of persistence since childhood or early youth. (8) The lesions remain uninfluenced by mercury. (9) Antecedent or concomitant syphil- itic symptoms only accidental. Frequently a history of arthritic rheumatism. Vesicular Syphiloderm.1 Vesicles are rarely encountered in syphilis, the lesions which commonly show themselves as such in their early stages becoming eventually transformed into pustules. The lesions in typical cases vary in size, form, arrangement, and distribution. They may be small, pin-head sized, more or less acumi- nated, and disseminated or grouped ; or split-pea sized, flat or semi-globular, with or without umbilication. The small miliary vesicles manifest themselves as irregularly grouped or disseminated lesions, inclining to involve the hair follicles, and are succeeded by minute, yellowish, granular crusts. Sometimes the larger vesicles assume a varicella-like appearance and distribution, the lesions being split-pea sized and slightly umbilicated, containing a clear or cloudy fluid, and being surrounded by a reddish areola. They are apt to be peculiarly persistent, lasting for days without undergoing change. The eruption commonly shows itself in localities where the skin is natu- rally thin, as upon the face and genitalia. It is rarely extensive, nor are its lesions numerous. Its course is usually rapid, the lesions terminating in rup- ture and slight crusting. Other lesions, especially papules, coexist. The eruption is early, occurring within the first six months or year of the dis- ease. Occasionally syphilitic eruptions are met with closely resembling eczema. The fol- lowing abstract of a case, which I reported several years ago,2 is of interest, because the eruption resembled eczema in so many respects that, without a history and without the concomitant lesions to guide one, a mistake in diagnosis might readily have been made, and, in fact, was made at first, in spite of these aids. The patient, a woman of forty, in the seventh year of an attack of syphilis charac- terized by successive outbreaks of various kinds, presented an affection of the scalp consisting of a hand-sized patch of infiltrated, red, scaly, and crusted disease, pouring out a profuse serous secretion, thick, tenacious, clear, and yellowish in color, which matted the hairs together, and even ran down over the neck. On pulling the hairs apart, or lifting the dried crusts of serum and epidermis, the surface of the skin could be seen, red, raw, and weeping. There was little or no odor from the scalp. The patient com- plained of some pain in the head, and of severe itching. The affection was mistaken at first for eczema, and treated locally. The patient disappeared for many months, and when she returned again presented unequivocal symptoms of syphilis in connection with the same vesicular eruption, which healed finally under specific treatment. The Pustular Syphiloderm. The pustular syphilodermata, although not as common as the erythema- tous and papular eruptions, constitute a large and important group. They 1 The best description of this affection may be found in Bassereau (Affections de la Peau symp- tomatiques de la Syphilis), and in Hardy (Lemons sur la Scrofule et les Scrofulides et sur la Syphilis et les Syphilides). 2 Archives of Dermatology, 1876, p. 217.