373 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. R Potass, bromidi, §ss. Oleores. cubebse, fgss. Ol. sassafras, gtt. xij. Syr. acacias, f^ij. Aquae, ad f§vj. M. Sig.—Dessertspoonful every four hours. At the same time, the injection may be changed to one containing an in- soluble powder, which, by coating the urethra and partially protecting it from the urine, and also by its mechanical influence in constricting the dilated vessels and keeping the walls separated,1 often serves greatly to reduce the discharge. The following formulae are the best among a great many:— R.—Bismuth, subnitrat. 3j- Glycerinas, f 3ij- Aquae ros. ad f^iv. M. R.—Bismuth, subcarb. 3j- Mucilag. acaciae, f^ss. Aquae ros. fjiiiss. M. R.—Pulv. zinci oxidi, 3j- Acid, tannic. 9j. Muc. acaciae, f^ss. Aquae ros. f^iijss. M. R.—Zinci sulphat. ^j. Plumbi acetat. 3ss. Tinct. opii, « Tinct. catechu, aa f3iij• Aquae, ad f§iv. M. R—Zinci acetat., Acidi tannici, aa 9j. Aquae ros. f^iv. M. After the cubeb mixture has been taken for two or three days, if the case is progressing favorably, copaiba may be substituted, or may be added to it, or, better still, capsules containing twenty minims each of oil of cubebs and oil of copaiba may be prescribed in doses of from two to four, three or four times daily. In certain cases, where these preparations disagree or seem to lose their effect, it will be well to substitute sandal-wood oil, in doses of ten minims four times daily. This amount may be dropped upon a lump of sugar, which will absorb it, and may then be swallowed and washed down with a little water without difficulty, or it may be given in capsules^ A commercial arti- cle is sometimes sold by druggists, which has not by any means the same therapeutic value as the genuine oil, being a decided irritant to both the genito-urinary and digestive tracts. It may be known by its turbidity or cloudiness, the pure oil being perfectly translucent and of a pale amber color. Astringent Injections.—While using the injections containing insoluble sediments, the patient will often be unable accurately to estimate the char- acter and amount of his discharge. After a time, therefore, about four or five days, it is well to substitute for them a watery solution of some simple astringent, preferably of sulphate of zinc,2 beginning with about two grains 1 Contact of the two surfaces of the urethra has long been recognized as a source of difficulty in gleet. Civiale, Milton, and others, endeavored to obviate it by introducing into the urethra and leaving there a long, narrow strip of lint, so as to keep its walls separated. I have never tried the plan, and should imagine that the danger of the lint slipping into the bladder and its irri- tating effect as a foreign body would be enough to outweigh any possible advantage. 2 Jullien (op. cit. p. 72) speaks of the sulphate of zinc as that “ precieux agent” which is “ le modiflcateur par excellence de l’urethre enflamme.”