POISONED WOUNDS. 92 defined borders. The discharge had, on some parts of the cheeks and chin, which had not been bitten, produced, secondarily, bullae of what is often called impetigo contagiosa.” The sting of the flea produces a larger, very red and angry, flattened, long ovoidal swelling, or welt, with a peculiar velvety feel; it is very persistent. The louse simply inserts its sucker into a follicle of the skin in search of nourishment, and the rupture of one or more small vessels is apt to occur. The ensuing inflammation is due more to the scratching than to the intensity of the poison. Certain midges are sometimes met with in swarms at the seashore, and are very annoying by the sharp but very transient irritation caused by their suckers. Among flies, the large “ green-head,” found on the Jersey coast in the late summer, and the “black fly” of June, in the northern woods, may, perhaps, be considered as the most troublesome species. The former produces a very severe irritation if allowed to penetrate the skin, as it often does in children. Some of the Ixodes or ticks are very poisonous to man. There is a very small variety met with in dry, sandy woods in New Jersey, and perhaps else- where, which buries itself in the skin. I have known of two or three in- stances of children being nearly covered with them, especially in.the legs and about the scrotum ; the itching induced was intolerable, especially at night, totally preventing sleep. But in tropical climates, and occasionally in this latitude, the larger species are sometimes encountered. I saw a gentleman in 1881, who had had the horny head of a large Ixodes buried in the skin of his chest for several years, occasionally to his great annoyance. Mr. R. R. Allen writes, from Natal, S. Africa, to the Lancet, Aug. 27, 1881, an ac- count of the Ixodes reticulatus, or ox-tick, which buries its sucker in the skin, and when filled with blood, is half an inch long. He says : “On June 28th, I was bitten by one of these little animals in the right axilla. When caught, it was deeply buried in the flesh and ‘full-blown.’ I had to use force to extract it. The next, and four following days, I was very unwell, with severe frontal headache, which continued for three days, nervous depression, loss of appetite, thirst, pain, swelling, and stiffness of the muscles of my right arm and axilla. The axillary glands became hard, enlarged, and most painful, but did not suppurate. The punctures made by the tick became a pustule with a dark inflamed areola, which burst and dried up. The feverishness was considerable, and I suffered greatly from nausea, insomnia, and towards the end diarrhoea. I am now con- valescent (July 4). Perhaps I got the tick from my horse, which w'as suffering from mange at the time.” The scorpion is very seldom met with, except in tropical countries, and there its sting, although very irritating, is seldom fatal. Swelling of the tongue is said by some writers to be a constant symptom in these cases, and sometimes a singular loss of power in the cervical muscles has been observed, as if the poison, when absorbed, acted in a special degree upon certain por- tions of the nerve-centres. Spiders have a bad reputation, but the cases are certainly very rare in which dangerous injury is inflicted by any of the species known to us. Yet Stahl1 reported a case in which the sting of a “ black spider” on the elbow produced a condition of alarming collapse; and Ilulse,2 one in which like symptoms followed a hurt of the same kind on the penis. (In both these cases the old- fashioned antiphlogistic system, including copious venesection, calomel, and tartar emetic, with active purgation, was adopted. Ilulse states that his patient took, within four hours,"four ounces of laudanum and an equal quan- tity of aqua ammonise.) 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Aug. 1838. * Ibid., May, 1839.