SYPHILIS OP THE RESPIRATORY PASSAGES. 531 ment and their general character. It is now known, however, that the syphilitic lesions of the larynx may occur at any period of the general de- velopment of syphilis, without regal’d to the appearance of other lesions. The superficial syphilitic lesions of the larynx include erythema, mucous patches, superficial ulcerations, and vegetations. The deep lesions are deep ulcerations, gummatous tumors, perichondritis and chondritis, caries, and necrosis. The farther from the opening of the larynx is a lesion situated, the more serious is it. But the severity and threatening character of a lesion are by no means proportioned to its individual character. There is often more to be dreaded from a shallow mucous patch accompanied by oedema, than from a deep ulceration. The subjective symptoms connected with syphilis of the larynx are comparatively trifling. Quite a large and deep ulcer may exist without the patient being even aware of its presence. The invasion of the larynx is insidious, and the subsequent course of the lesions is chronic and devoid of pain. According to the views of some authorities, the parts of the vocal organism most often in contact during the performance of its function are most frequently attacked by syphilis. Hence the vocal cords and the arytenoids are the most susceptible regions (Bumstead and Taylor). The lesions of laryngeal syphilis are rarely painful, excepting when the cartilages are attacked. There is rarely any cough, and but slight expectora- tion, this, if present, being scanty, mucous, or muco-purulent. The sputa may be tinged with blood from an ulcer, or may contain fragments of cartilage or bone. In the latter case they are apt to be fetid. The voice is rarely altered, although in some cases there may be hoarseness or whispering. Dys- phagia may occur in rare cases where the disease is far advanced, or where the epiglottis is attacked. Dyspnoea is an important symptom. It may supervene on stenosis of the passage caused by oedema, vegetating growths, cicatricial contraction, and possibly spasm. Tracheotomy is sometimes called for, but it should only be employed at the last moment, since prompt and vigorous specific medication—if necessary, by the hypodermic method— will sometimes save an apparently desperate case. In considering the special lesions of the larynx, it is scarcely necessary to more than mention the early and slighter affections. Erythema is easily made out when concomitant symptoms are present, or when a trustworthy history can be obtained. When the epiglottis is involved, it may become cedematous and much tumefied, and may assume a bilobed shape. There has always been some question as to the relative frequency of mucous patches in the larynx, but recent writers, such as Krishaber, Mauriac, and Whistler, consider them tolerably frequent. They possess in general very much the same characters in the larynx as in the mucous membrane of the mouth; but the difficulty of examining them closely, and the more com- plicated arrangement of the parts, render them less easy of recognition in some cases. The superficial ulcerations in laryngeal syphilis involve only the mucous membrane. They are very sluggish, persisting with slight change for an indefinite period. They are apt to be confounded with the ulcers of phthisis, but these begin in the ventricular bands, and are paler than the syphilitic lesions. The ulcers of phthisis are bathed in a copious, muco-purulent secre- tion, and are apt to be accompanied with decided swelling and oedema of the arytenoids. Finally, the concomitant symptoms of phthisis are likely to be found elsewhere. The chronic inflammation of laryngeal syphilis may be an early or a late lesion; it is apt to he persistent, and to lead to thickening or hypertrophy of