vol. ii.—17 ( 257 ) ABSCESSES. BY HOWARD MARSH, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL, LONDON. The work of which this essay forms a part contains an article on Inflam- mation, in which the reader will find a description of the phenomena that precede the formation of pus. It will, therefore, here be enough to introduce only so much of pathology as bears directly on the study of abscess from a surgical point of view. Nature of Abscess. Although the term abscess is frequently used with considerable latitude, it may be simply yet strictly defined as a circumscribed collection of pus. This collection is sometimes inclosed in one of the small natural cavities of the body, as for instance in the antrum of the upper jaw; sometimes in the syno- vial cavities of the joints; or in bursae. Sometimes its walls are formed by the sheath of a muscle, or by strong fasciae, as in the case of a psoas or iliac abscess, or of one within the capsule of the parotid or the prostate gland. But more commonly the hollow in which the abscess lies has been formed by the destruction, or pushing aside, of the structures of the part in which it is imbedded. The cavity, however formed, if we take a typical instance, is lined with a more or less distinct sac or membrane, produced by the organi- zation of the products of inflammation at the confines of the affected area. This membrane, termed “ pyogenic,” may frequently be clearly seen in chro- nic abscess of cancellous bone, or on the surface of the pleura in cases of chronic pleurisy, where it may be stripped off as a distinct layer of considerable thickness and toughness, presenting the appearance of granulation-tissue rich in bloodvessels. In the early stages of abscess, and generally in cases of acute suppuration, no distinct membrane is developed, and pus is circumscribed only by a wall of coagulable lymph, permeated by leucocytes, and blended with the tissues into which it is effused. When the tendency to coagulation, which is one of the characteristics of healthy lymph,'is deficient, the extension of pus widely in all directions, but chiefly along the intermuscular and subcu- taneous planes of the connective tissue, and along the sheaths of bloodvessels, takes place, and the process becomes one of “ diffuse suppuration.” Characters and Properties of Pus. Healthy, or laudable pus is a yellowish-white liquid of the consistence ot thick cream, with a smooth unctuous feel when rubbed between the fingers,