519 SYPHILIS OF THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. The manner in which stricture of the rectum is produced is, in all cases, by the contraction of a cicatrix following an ulcerative lesion or a submucous gumma. The ulcerative lesion is a comparatively early syphilitic develop- ment, and often coincides with cutaneous and mucous manifestations. The ulcers, as seen near the anus, are usually elongated in the direction of the swollen anal folds, between which they are often hidden, so as not to become visible until the mucous membrane is put upon the stretch. Further up in the rectum they are roundish, sharply cut, and almost always covered with pultaceous detritus and adherent mucus. To the touch they offer the sensa- tion of a granular, somewhat resistant substance. Their duration is naturally long, and they are subject to phagedaena, owing to the various causes of irri- tation to which they are exposed. When the syphilitic ulcer of the rectum does heal, cicatrization is apt to cause a valvular stricture, if it has involved a portion, or an annular stricture, if it has extended around a greater part of the circumference of the tube. Submucous gummata of the ano-rectal region are extremely rare, but their existence is maintained by Jullien. Diffuse gumma, called by Fournier “ano-syphiloma,” is a late lesion, and consists in an infiltration of the ano-rectal walls by a neoplasm of, as yet, unde- termined structure, originally, but susceptible of degenerating into a retractile fibrous tissue, and thus giving rise to narrowing of the intestinal calibre to a greater or less degree and extent. It is the most frequent cause of rectal stricture. Ano-rectal syphiloma is more frequently met with about the rectum than about the anus. In the former position, its chief symptom is a hard, firm thick- ening of the rectal walls. To the touch, the walls of the rectum are not only hard, but they are rough, mammillated, and divided into thick ridges. The mucous membrane is, both to touch and to ocular examination, perfectly healthy. It is the lowest portion of the rectum which is the customary seat of the form of syphilis under consideration; it rarely extends to more than two and a half inches beyond the anus. The lesion is indolent in its earlier stages, giving neither pain nor inconvenience. The anus is rarely affected alone by this lesion, but almost always in con- nection with the rectum. The lesion here takes a nodular or sometimes a vegetative form. Treated in good time, the ano-rectal syphiloma, and also the other syphi- litic anal and rectal manifestations, may be dissipated and caused to disappear. Heglected, as these affections too often are, they not only persist, but they tend to degenerate, and thus lead inevitably to stricture of the rectum. Treatment.—To be successful, the treatment of syphilitic disease of the rectum and anus must be undertaken early in the history of the affection. If postponed until cicatrization sets in, anti-syphilitic treatment has but little effect. When cicatrization has begun, it proceeds usually without regard to any treatment which can ordinarily be administered. The usual anti-syphilitic treatment is, of course, called for, and should be pushed vigorously as long as any chance of success by this means can be hoped for. When constriction of the rectal tube has once fairly begun, internal medication, as has just been said, is of no avail. Dilatation by means of bougies may serve to keep the passages open for an indefinite period, and should be practised assiduously. When this fails, and complete stenosis of the rectum is threatened, operative interference is called for, as will be set forth in other portions of the work.1 1 Fournier, in his complete monograph, Lesions Tertiaires de l’Anus et du Rectum, Paris, 1875, says that he has known half a dozen patients suffering with syphilitic stricture of the rectum, who, by using dilatation with bougies from time to time, have been able to go about comfortably for five, eight, and ten years.