GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 191 Gunshot Injuries of the Abdomen. As the result of gunshot injury, there may he produced in this region (1) contusion; (2) parietal wound ; and (3) penetration of the cavity, with or without visceral lesion—the missile either lodging in the abdomen, or perfo- rating the cavity to emerge through a second external orifice, or to be arrested at some point beneath the unbroken integument. There may be associated wound of the chest wall or thoracic cavity above, or of the pelvic cavity be- low, or of the spine behind. Contusion may result from the blow of a nearly-spent cannon-shot or shell fragment, or from a grazing bullet, or from the more direct impact of a musket or pistol ball, the momentum of which is insufficient to overcome the elasticity of the skin. When the missile is large, there may be produced only tearing of the superficial vessels, with resulting extravasation in greater or less amount; orruptureof muscles ; or laceration of the abdominal viscera, especially of the liver or of an enlarged spleen ; or even lesion of the great bloodvessels. Parietal Wounds.—When there is a -parietal wound, the bullet may lodge at no great distance, or may cut across the wall, or may form a longer or shorter seton track, or being deflected may run around, to emerge or to rest at a point nearly or quite opposite the place of entrance—a round ball, at times, even completely girdling the abdomen. Large vessels may be injured, or the peritoneum bruised, or, though rarely, the kidney or an uncovered portion of the intestine damaged. It is even possible that a pre-existing hernia may be wounded, as in a case reported by Medical Inspector Gihon, U. S. hi. In both contusions and non-penetrating wounds, espe- cially when there has been extensive extravasation, Fig- 278. parietal abscess frequently results. Penetrating Wounds.—When the serous mem- brane is pierced, the ball may glide over the con- tained viscera without wounding them. On theo- retical grounds the possibility of such an occurrence has been denied, but the fact that it does take place has been amply established by post-mortem examin- ation.1 (See Fig. 298, page 202.) Ordinarily, in penetrating wounds of the abdo- men resulting from gunshot injury, lesions of the hollow or solid viscera, or both, are produced, and multiple wounds of the intestinal coils are frequent.2 Protrusions of healthy or damaged omentum, or of bowel, may quickly occur, though bullet wounds are not likely to be followed by such complications. Injured portions of even the solid viscera (liver, kidney, rarely the spleen), may appear externally. As the result of early fixation of the damaged intestine, an artificial anus may ultimately be established, either with, or, as is much more usually the case, Loops of ileum with shot-perfora- tions. (A. M. M., Spec. 1231, a.) 1 In his address before the surgical section of the American Medical Association, at Richmond, Va., in 1881, Dr. Hunter McGuire reported four such cases that had come under his own obser- vation. 2 Longmore reports a Crimean case in which, upon autopsy, it was found that “ sixteen openings had been made in the small intestines by the bullet,” which “entered near the umbilicus and passed out close to the scrotum,” the man having been hit “ while stooping in the act of defeca- tion.” In the case of the late J. Fiske, Jr., there were “four perforations of the small intestine, two of the large, and fourteen perforations or distinct wounds of the peritoneum.” (Peugnet.)