TREATMENT BY OCCLUSION. 43 out by the immediate application of splints, thickly padded with cotton-wool, to the wound and injured limb, and by then not interfering with the injured part for four or six days. If there was at the end of this time neither in- flammation nor suppuration, and if there was a Arm scab, the wound was let alone, and only the surrounding wool was removed. If suppuration was present, the wound was dressed with cerate. This method has been described by Schultes as the methodical application of so-called healing by scabbing, extended to large wounds. Dr. Graf uses cotton-wool and tannin, the latter being spread over the wound in a layer as thick as the back of a knife; he leaves the dressing un- touched for from four to fourteen days. He and Fleck, of Dresden, regard tannin as a simple and cheap antiseptic and disinfectant, and as an unirritat- military surgery. Alphonse Guerin uses cotton-wool with the view of filtering the air from germs before it reaches the wounded surface, and he applies the wool by smothering the wounded part or limb with many layers, and leaving it un- disturbed for twenty-five or thirty days, unless some extraordinary complica- tion should arise—for the occurrence of which a close watch is always kept—to induce him to remove it. Before he applies the dressing, he washes the wound with camphorated alcohol, or carbolic acid, and, in an amputation, introduces the wool between the flaps. When the dressing is removed, there is generally a healthy granulating surface, with a little sweet pus covering it; and the granulations, in the case of a stump, have probably driven out the cotton-wool. This method has the advantage of giving rest to the wounded parts; the gentle and elastic pressure exerted by the wool is also beneficial; as is likewise the constant temperature maintained, and the freedom from pain which is the result of these conditions. Ollier employs the same dressing as Guerin, but he, in addition, sprinkles the wadding with carbolic acid. According to either plan, the dressing is a close one, and is based on occlusion of the part from air, with antiseptic in- tentions. Summary.—If we bring this method of treating wounds, by “ occlusion,” to the test laid down at the commencement of this section, it will be found that it fairly well fulfils three out of the last four essential principles of practice, but fails entirely in the most important—the fifth—that of drainage. That is to say, it includes the careful adaptation of the surfaces of the wound, insures rest and immobility of the part for some days, and provides for the protection of the wound from outside influences, and for antisepsis, but it fails entirely in making the smallest provision for drainage. So that, as Syme cleverly expresses it,1 “ there can be little difficulty in perceiving why the sealing up of wounds should be the most certain means of keeping them open.” Under these circumstances, the conclusion is clear, that, whilst this may be a safe and wise practice to adopt in small or superficial wounds, it is a risky and somewhat dangerous method to follow in the treatment of those which are deep or complicated, unless very closely watched. It should never be employed in any case in which the wound is more than superficial, unless the probability of the part healing by immediate union can with good con- fidence be maintained; and it should never be employed at all, unless the surgeon, carefully watching the temperature of the patient and the local and general symptoms of the case, is prepared to at once expose the wound if necessary, and to evacuate any pent-up fluid that may be present. 1 Lancet, March 31, 1855.