GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 154 destruction, exhaustion, amyloid disease, or purulent infection; and gun- shot wounds of the articulations are more fatal than others, simply because they do more damage to the joint structures and cause a greater amount of hemorrhage into the articular cavity. When the joint has not been opened, the synovitis may be simple, and the prognosis consequently very much more favorable, but oftentimes intra-articular suppuration sooner or later occurs; the overlying structures at times become gangrenous, occasionally, without doubt, not so much because of the original injury, as of the injudicious use of cold applications, combined it may be with compressing bandages. The extent of destruction of the soft parts may be so great as of itself to necessitate amputation; and in many cases, otherwise successfully treated, decided impairment of the joint or even fixation of it may result from peri- articular cicatricial contraction. In penetrating bullet-wounds, it has un- doubtedly happened once in a while that the missile has passed through with- out injuring the bones, but in the vast majority of these cases, osseous lesion is produced ; rarely perforation, or even lodgment, without Assuring or smash- ing ; almost always splintering, often in high degree. The early symptoms, even in these latter cases, are frequently very mild ; there may be little or no pain, and no constitutional disturbance. The untorn periosteum may hold together the splintered fragments so firmly that it is difficult or impossible to elicit crepitus, and that it may be possible to use the injured limb, as in a case reported by Legouest, in which though there was a fracture of the coty- loid cavity, the man walked about for ten days after he was shot. Usually, fever sets in on the second or third day. According to the joint affected, and the extent of its damage, an attempt may be made to save the limb, by cleansing the wound, removing foreign bodies (including all detached pieces of bone), securing drainage, immobilizing the part, and controlling inflammation, particularly by the application of cold; or the injured part may be taken away, either by complete or partial excision of the joint, or by amputation. Until quite recently, the non-operative treatment of wounds of the larger joints was attended with a greater mortality than either excision or amputation ; and by the majority of surgeons, operation has been advised in all cases of such injury, excepting those which are very slight, or when the patient's surroundings are unusually favorable. Other things being equal, the chances of saving part and life are much better in joint wounds of the upper, than in those of the lower extremity. In the last few years, a number of severe injuries of the major articulations have been treated anti- septically, with results very much better than those previously obtained in military surgery—the great object being to prevent suppuration, with the setting in of which the chances of recovery decrease very rapidly. (Reyher.) Whether this or the ordinary treatment be adopted, immobilization is of the utmost importance, and equally so, in the ordinary mode of treatment, is the removal of foreign bodies. With the antiseptic dressing this is a matter of very much less importance, as is shown by two of Bergmann’s cases in which healing took place, although, as was proved some time afterwards by post- mortem examination—the patients having meanwhile died of intercurrent disease—in one, several small pieces of cloth were shut up in the joint, and in the other, a fragment of bone had grown into the insertion of the crucial ligaments. Whether, in cases that must be operated upon, exsection or amputation shall be preferred, will depend upon the extent of the laceration of the soft parts and of the destruction of bone, upon the particular joint injured, upon the general condition of the patient, upon whether or not he is to be treated at the place of operation, and lastly, upon his hygienic surroundings. If no use be made