64 THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. While these attempts to prevent putrefaction by excluding the gases of the air were being made, indeed before they had been thought of, it had been found that the addition of various substances to organic fluids, whether out- side the body or in wounds, had a marked effect in retarding or preventing fermentation, and notably in preventing smell. These substances therefore received the name of “antiseptics”—substances which prevented putrefaction, or, literally, which acted against the causes of putrefaction. These had been in use for a very long time, chiefly in the form of various balsams, ointments, or lotions. The most efficacious balsams contained various essential oils, which we now know to he powerful antiseptics, while the best lotions had, among other substances, alcohol as their chief component. The treatment of wounds with antiseptics had, however, been carried on in a very desultory manner, and without any fixed guiding principle, till the publication, in 1869, of a paper by Corne and Demeaux on a paste containing coal tar. By means of this paper, the attention of French surgeons was at once attracted to the whole question of the use of antiseptics in the treatment of wounds, and for a year or two very fertile results were obtained. Lemaire more especially took the matter up, and after experimenting with an emulsion of coal tar, with very good results, he at length found that carbolic acid was the chief antiseptic constituent in coal tar, and accordingly introduced it into surgical practice. During the same time, various other antiseptics were brought forward, of which alcohol, in the practice of M. JSTelaton, yielded the most important results. As the result of Lemaire’s writings, the use of carbolic acid spread very rapidly on the continent, and even in Great Britain a few surgeons (Spence, Wood, etc.) employed it somewhat extensively. Carbolic acid, as used in this way, has, however, many disadvantages, and hence many who had at first employed it largely, gave it up almost entirely, and it seemed likely to fall into disuse, until it was again brought into notice by the writ- ings of Prof. Lister. All these attempts, however, with the exception to some extent of Le- maire’s, were merely empirical, or at least founded on no definite theory of the causes of fermentation. Consequently, the modes in which the antiseptics were used were very various, and as a rule very inefficient. What, perhaps, more than anything else, tended to confuse the minds of surgeons on this subject, was the success of what was apparently a very different method of treatment, and one opposed to any of the existing conceptions of the origin of fermentations. So contrary was it to the views of the majority of surgeons at that time, that great doubts arose in the minds of some whether, after all, putrefaction in wounds could be the evil which it had seemed to be. I refer, of course, to the open method of treating wounds. The Germ Theory. In the mean time, however, science was making rapid advances in this department, more especially by the labors of Schwann, Schroeder and Dusch, and Pasteur. The theory that fermentation was due to the gases of the air had become untenable. Organic fluids which had been sterilized by boiling, could be preserved for an indefinite time in the presence of air which had been previously heated (Schwann), which had been passed through sul- phuric acid (Schulze), which had been passed through water (Pouchet), which had been filtered through cotton-wool (Schroeder and Dusch), or which had simply been allowed to remain at rest for a sufficient time to permit the solid particles suspended in it to settle (Pasteur). It was also shown that no gas, per se, had any power of causing fermentation. Pure oxygen, nascent