SYPHILIS. 492 oderm is liable to be mistaken for erythema annulare, gyratum, or marginatum. The eruption of the latter affection, however, is more methodically arranged ; it is of a deeper red color, is raised above the surface, is most apt to occur on the backs of the hands and feet, is more ephemeral, and is likely to be found during the spring and autumn. The diagnosis of the erythematous syphiloderm is usually not difficult. It is commonly accompanied by some of the other symptoms of syphilitic infection, general malaise, nocturnal headache, wandering pains in the limbs, sore throat, etc., while not infrequently the traces of the chancre and the in- volvement of the inguinal and other glands can be made out. Differential Diagnosis between the Erythematous Syphiloderm and Simple Erythema.—{Fournier.) Erythematous Syphiloderm. (1) Usually apyretic. (2) No itching. (3) Lasts several weeks at least. (4) Preceded a short time by the symp- toms of syphilitic infection, chancre, glan- dular involvement, etc. (5) Accompanied by other syphilitic manifestations, crusts in the scalp, enlarge- ment of the cervical glands, evening headache, lesions of the mucous mem- branes, etc. Simple Erythema. (1) Often accompanied by feverish symptoms, loss of appetite, coated tongue, thirst, malaise, and headache. (2) Very frequently more or less itch- ing. (3) Ephemeral. (4) No previous symptoms of syphilitic infection. (5) Not accompanied by secondary syphilitic symptoms. Differential Diagnosis between the Erythematous Syphiloderm and Dermatitis from Copaiba.—{Fournier.) Erythematous Syphiloderm. (1) Eruption not pruritic. (2) Eruption rose-colored, without a vinous tint. (3) Eruption without special points of concentration. (4) Eruption persistent at least for some weeks. (5) Eruption follows the symptoms of syphilitic infection without any drug hav- ing been taken. Dermatitis from Copaiba. (1) Eruption sometimes itches slightly, at other times quite severely. (2) Eruption deeper in color, having more of a wine tint than the syphilitic manifestation. (3) Eruption shows a tendency to con- fluence at certain points, such as the ex- tensor surfaces of the joints. (4) Eruption ephemeral, disappearing in a few days when the drug has been dis- continued. (5) Eruption follows a special cause, recent ingestion of copaiba. The evolution of the erythematous syphiloderm is slow. Unlike the febrile exanthematic eruptions, which reach their full development in from twenty- four to forty-eight hours, it first shows itself by a patch of eruption here and there; more patches follow, and day by day new lesions succeed, the eruption taking a week or more to unfold itself completely. Once fully developed, it remains unchanged for a considerable period. Under the influence of treat- ment it fades rapidly, but left alone it may persist for weeks or months, be- coming darker and partially pigmented, while newT forms of syphiloderm may meanwhile make their appearance. At this period the eruption is no longer