APPLICATION OF THE ASEPTIC METHOD TO OPERATIONS. 75 of the Listerian method. For, in ordinary air, there are comparatively few particles capable of causing fermentation. At the same time, there are par- ticles, and, as we cannot know where such particles are, if we are to take the precaution of purifying the air, it must he done thoroughly, as if the air were full of these particles ; and every time that the hands of the operator or his instruments have come in contact with unpurified air, that is, have been passed outside the spray, they must be repurified in carbolic lotion, before being reintroduced into the wound. The spray is a convenience, not a neces- sity. Aseptic treatment can be carried 'out without a spray; indeed for several years Mr. Lister did not use it. If, however, no spray is employed, we must not forget that septic particles are still present in the atmosphere, and must still be destroyed. This is done by washing out the wound every now and then during the course of the operation with carbolic lotion ; and, after stitching up the wound, it is well to syringe it out immediately before applying the dressing. Of course all the other precautions must be observed. In some cases, as in empyema, the spray is almost a necessity, and in all it is more convenient and more certain than the method of washing out the wound. The steam spray acts automatically. Once put in action, it goes on of itself. By its use there is no necessity for applying the irritating carbolic solution to the wound. To wash out the wound with carbolic acid, is to irritate it very much, and in some cases to interfere with the chance of primary union; at the same time, it causes an increased amount of serous oozing, which, of course, tries the antiseptic dressing very much, washing out the antiseptic, and increasing the risk of putrefaction during the after-treatment. It is, however, well to bear in mind that, where no spray is at hand, the aseptic method may still be carried out, and that the spray is the least essential part of the method as at present employed. The most essential 'part of the treatment is the thorough purification of everything (hands, instruments, etc.) which comes in contact with the wound. The introduction of an unpurified instrument into a wound is a much worse error, and one far more likely to be followed by bad results, than the momentary deflection or cessation of the spray. When, for any reason, it is necessary to stop the spray for a time during an operation, the wound may be protected in the interval by throwing over it a piece of muslin soaked in carbolic lotion, and termed “ the guard.” The guard is also used in the case of a large wound where the spray does not quite cover the whole of the wound. In this instance, the guard is thrown over the part of the wound on which the surgeon is not working, and the spray is directed over the rest of it. The operation having been performed with the precautions detailed, the hemorrhage must be arrested. This is done by means of ligatures of carbolized catgut. There are two kinds of catgut which are at present employed: the carbolized catgut, which was that first introduced by Mr. Lister -,1 and the chromic acid gut, which lasts longer in the tissues than the former, and is more rapidly and easily prepared.2 All bleeding points are tied, and the ligatures cut short. There is no excuse for leaving any bleeding vessel, as the ligatures cause no trouble afterwards. The drainage of wounds treated in this way is a most important point. It may be accomplished by means of drainage tubes, or by capillarity. The drainage tubes employed are made of vulcanized India-rubber (Fig. 220), and are of various sizes. They are introduced to the deepest part of the wound, and are cut flush with the surface at the outer end, obliquely if the tube he oblique, and transversely if the tube runs directly inwards. To permit the Lancet, April 3, 1869. 2 Lancet, February 5, 1881.