32 WOUNDS. the wounded tissues, and so guarding against any tendency to bring about a separation of the edges of the wound, as in cut-throat cases; and last, but not least, of encouraging the return of the venous blood from the wounded parts towards the heart. Thus in wounds of the trunk, the horizontal position is the right one to be maintained, and in those of the extremities, flexion and elevation of the limb ; in wounds of the lower extremity, the foot should be kept higher than the knee, and this than the hip ; and in those of the upper extremity, the same principles of practice should be followed, the elbow being generally flexed. Under all circumstances, wounded limbs should be fixed upon splints, with the view of immobilizing them, and, as a rule, the limbs should be swung; this practice adds greatly to the comfort of patients, by allowing them to move their trunks without their wounded extremities, and without therefore interfering with repair. It should be added, however, that this question of position ought always to be considered in reference to the fifth indication, namely the necessity of providing efficient means for the removal of the superfluous fluids of the part, and for the escape of disinte- grated dead tissue which may have to be discharged, or, in brief, for ‘ ‘ drainage.” Drainage.-—Drainage, or the making of due provision for the escape from the wound of disintegrated dead tissue, with such fluids as are not required for repair, and which if left might prove injurious, is of primary importance in the treatment of all, and more particularly of deep wounds. It should never escape the attention of the surgeon. In scalp wounds, and those about the eyelids, though they may appear trivial, it is of as much importance as it is in the wounds that involve deeper parts and seem more severe; for in the one case as in the other, pent-up fluids not only tend to separate tissues which are intended to unite, giving rise to pain by producing tension, and conse- quently causing constitutional irritation, but they are prone to excite inflam- mation in the part, and ultimately to undergo septic changes, which in their turn may give rise to blood-poisoning in the form of septicaemia or pyaemia. No other than trivial wounds consequently should be completely covered in, and deep ones very rarely. Some corner, and preferably that which is most dependent—some interval between the sutures or strips of plaster—should always be left open for the escape of disintegrated tissues, and of superfluous fluids, such as Mood or serum; and where deeper structures are involved, some conducting material or “ drainage-tube” should be introduced. The best is a tube of India-rubber, perforated at intervals (as originally suggested by Chassaignac, in 1855), of a size varying with the cavity or wound to be drained; but in some cases a strand of carbolized catgut or horse-hair, a roll of gutta-percha skin, or a piece of lint saturated with carbolic or tere- bene oil, will do as well. In abdominal cases (as after ovariotomy), a per- forated glass tube is of great value, while under other circumstances an elastic catheter will answer the purpose. The particular mode of accomplishing the object is of little importance, as long as the object itself is secured. In using a drainage-tube, however, the surgeon must remember that it is not to be made a seton, and that the sole justification for its use is to secure the free evacuation of fluids from the deeper tissues. For this purpose, it is to be made to dip deeply enough into the wound, but no more ; it is not to be made an irritant. The size of the tube is to be regulated by the require- ments of the case; several short tubes are often better than a long one. Care is also to be taken that the outer ends of the tubes are left free; when covered, they should be covered but lightly, and then with some absorbent cotton, oakum, sponge, or gauze. As a rule, however, they should be left open. In using the tube, when the end is cut off" level with the wound, the outer ex-