722 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS.E. sion into the joint is rare,1 and may be primary or consecutive. There is usually no tendency towards cure, the best to be hoped for being a stationary condition of the tumor. Occasionally rupture occurs with a more or less permanent recovery. Diagnosis.—Several other diseases having their seat in the popliteal region might possibly be mistaken for enlarged bursae. Varix of the short saphena vein may be simply mentioned in this connection. The lymphatic glands of the ham are occasionally enlarged, but rarely suppurate, and, in consequence, present no symptoms of fluctuation. They surround the artery more or less closely, and are much more liable to be mistaken for an aneurism than for a diseased bursa. Although some enlarged bursae reach to the central line, they do not commence at this point, and usually in some position of the limb show elas- ticity or fluctuation. In the case of enlarged glands, inflamed lymphatics would almost inevitably be traceable, leading from some injury or sore into the popliteal space. Suppuration beneath the popliteal fascia would present more pain and constitutional reaction than a simple bursitis, unless it too had reached the stage of suppuration, when the conditions would be practi- cally the same. A cold abscess would present antecedent morbid condi- tions not seen in cases of enlarged bursae, and would occupy no definite seat, such as one border of the ham. In addition, the subcutaneous tissue would, at some stage of the case, be oedematous and pit on pressure. A malignant growth would cause enlargement of the superficial veins, thin- ning and discoloration of the skin, an almost certain involvement of the neighboring lymphatic glands, with, sooner or later, infiltration of the sur- rounding tissues. If mobile and circumscribed at first, it would soon become fixed and blended with the neighboring parts. The only benign growth likely to be confounded with an enlarged popliteal bursa is a lipoma, and that prob- ably only in the rare event of the enlarged sac being bosselated. A fatty growth would probably occupy no specially defined position in the ham, it would not have a sharply defined outline, and it would not become larger and more tense when the limb was extended. Again, the deep surface of the skin is frequently attached to a fatty tumor, which is never the ease with a bursa, unless suppurating. Gastrocnemio-Semimembranosus Bursa.—This, as before said, is the largest and most constant of the popliteal bursae, and the one most commonly affected. Out of thirty cases of enlarged popliteal bursae collected by Foucher, this sac was diseased in two-thirds. Usually no cause is assigned other than extra fatigue from walking. I am convinced, both from personal experience and from the cases published by others, that although over-exercise may be the exciting cause, rheumatism or gout is what renders it efficient. When this sac is affected, considerable dull pain will usually be complained of, with stiff- ness in walking. Occasionally, shooting pains extending down the leg may be felt. Although the patient will probably state that the knee is affected, nothing abnormal will be detected until the postero-internal border of the popliteal space is examined, when an oval, tense, firm, thin-walled tumor will be detected, over which the skin is freely movable, although the swelling itself is immobile. Its long axis may be oblique from above downwards and inwards, or longitudinal. In the former case the upper part of the swelling will reach the centre of the popliteal space, extending perhaps above the femoral condyle, while its lower part will reach to the inner side of the same region. When 1 Median cysts which are often accompanied by joint effusion are of rare occurrence according to Foucher.