MALIGNANT CELLULITIS. 685 wash it thoroughly with carbolized water. The operation certainly would not hasten a fatal issue, and the patient would, in such a case, have no chance without it. Orbital Cellulitis is not a common form of disease. It is usually the result of external violence, involving more or less the eyeball and the neigh- boring tissues. ISTot infrequently it follows convalescence from low fevers or erysipelas. The symptoms are obscure at the inception of the disease, consisting simply of deep-seated pain in the orbit, somewhat throbbing in character, with redness and swelling of the conjunctiva and lids. Subsequently the eyeball is pushed out by the exudation behind, and becomes very prominent and, to a great extent, immovable. Fluctuation may be ascertained by lifting the upper lid, and examining the distended conjunctiva. The treatment consists in placing warm fomentations over the eye, applying leeches to the temples, and administering a mild cathartic internally. Most surgeons agree that no attempt should be made to open the abscess until a very distinct pointing takes place near the surface. Then it is well to puncture and clear out the cavity. Tonics and stimulants are indicated in the majority of cases. Malignant Cellulitis. This disease is usually the result of the introduction into the circulation of an animal poison, which excites a violent and destructive inflammatory action in the cellular tissue and skin, and superinduces constitutional dis- turbances which generally end in death. There are two varieties of malignant cellulitis: the first arising from the introduction of dead or decomposing material by means of a dissecting wound or a simple abrasion; the second resulting from the insertion of a peculiar virus through a wound made by the teeth or fangs of a reptile, or the sting of an insect. The persons affected by the first form of malignant cellulit is are generally students of medicine, and physicians who make a special study of morbid anatomy in the “dead-house” or dissecting-room. But it is not invariably confined to this class. Many persons acquire the disease from handling dead animals or putrid meats, the decomposing material entering the circulation through an old cut or abrasion of some sort on the fingers or hands. I have seen cases where the entrance of the poison was effected through the presence of an ordinary “ hang-nail.” Surgeons also may contract the disease during an operation, by handling a gangrenous limb, or unclean and gangrenous ulcers. The persons affected may be unconscious of any injury, or of having at any time been the subject of local poisoning. 'Within twenty-four hours from the time of puncture with the dissecting-knife or jagged end of a hone, the border of the wound assumes a dusky red hue, and becomes considerably swollen; the epidermis is raised by a brownish serum, which in a few hours becomes opaque and purulent. A sharp, burning pain occupies the seat of the wound, and severe shooting pains extend up the arm to the shoulder. Red lines are seen radiating from the wound up as high as the axilla, indicating the pres- ence of lymphangeitis. The lymphatic glands in the axilla become enlarged and painful. At this time the whole limb is greatly swollen; it is infiltrated throughout by serous lymph and pus, and irregular masses of suppuration form in various parts, including the lymphatic glands. Sloughing of the