290 ULCERS. chloroform, and thus made to adhere to the skin; over this I have found it best to apply absorbent cotton or some other similar material, to absorb the secretion. After a day or two, or when it is thought desirable, the dressings are changed, leaving the strips of gutta-percha undisturbed; they should not, as a rule, he removed for six or eight days, at the end of which time the grafts will generally he found firmly adherent to the granulating surface. [The grafts may be cut with a delicate knife or lancet, or, more conveniently, with the scissors shown in Fig. 311.] When broad sheets of epidermis are used as grafts, it is desirable to cover these completely with sheet gutta-percha. But both the grafts and the gutta- percha should have small openings cut in them to allow the discharge from the ulcer to escape; otherwise the secretion will be apt to lift the grafts from the granulating surface. When the surface is in proper condition for grafting, the proceeding rarely fails, and very large ulcers may often be covered by a new epidermis in the course of a week or two. Dr. J. IT. Gardner, formerly resident-surgeon at Bellevue Hospital, Hew York, has published a remarkable case of skin-grafting, in which the grafts were taken from a dead body:—1 Fijr. 312. C. J., aged ten years, who lives in Morrisania, New York, is the original of the photograph from which the accompanying cut (Fig. 312) was made. In the latter part of June, 1880, while sitting on a door on which there was a steel hinge, he was struck by light- ning, and became comatose, in which condition he remained for several hours. He was brought to Bellevue Hospital and placed in ward twelve, at that time under my charge. When his clothes were removed, the skin came off his left arm and shoulder, leaving the large raw surface seen in the picture. This surface was treated by different means for some weeks, until a healthy granu- lating surface was obtained all over the affected part. About this time a healthy young German, who had attempted suicide by cutting his throat, was brought to the hospital, and died within a few hours. Six hours after his death I went to the dead-house, and removed a portion of skin from the inner side of the thigh, where there was least hair, and where the skin was most delicate. Having cut this piece of skin into a great many small pieces I applied them,and dressed the surface [with Lister’s protective, adhesive plaster, and a bandage]. After the dressings had remained on for four days, they were removed, and after some little discharge had been washed off, I had the patient photographed. About one-fourth of the grafts had failed to take, and were washed off when the wound was cleansed. The remainder had attached themselves to the ulcer, and, as will be seen from the cut, the lower and central portions of the ulcer on the arm were already covered with a thin, delicate skin, as a result of the fusing together of the little islands of skin, each graft serving as a point of de- parture for the formation of these islands. [The progress of the case was complicated Case of skin-grafting in which the grafts were taken from a dead body. (Girdner.) 1 Medical Record, July 30, 1881.