POISONED WOUNDS. 98 tassium, and recommends its further trial; he used stimulants also. But the fact seems to be established by the intelligent observations and experiments of Mitchell, Fayrer, and others, that there is no known antidote by which the venom can be neutralized,1 nor any prophylactic against it. Hence, medi- cation with this view is to be avoided altogether, and the aim of treatment should be to prevent the poison from gaining access to the general circulation, and to obviate its prostrating effects if its entrance has already taken place. As soon as practicable after the receipt of the wound, a broad ligature should be tied, so tightly as to check the circulation, around the limb above the upper limit of any swelling which may have appeared, and the wound itself should be thoroughly sucked; the poison is harmless when taken into the mouth. Another plan is to apply cupping-glasses over the wound ; this mode of treatment was, at one time, strongly advocated, and seemed to pro- duce good results.2 Mitchell,3 however, doubts whether sucking can remove any of the poison through the narrow fang-track, and thinks that cupping only delays the poison for the time in the neighborhood of the part bitten. Some- times the site of the wound is not such as to admit of either of these measures; thus in one fatal case it wason the bridge of the nose. Very prompt cauterization, either with a hot iron or coal, or with the potential cautery—bromine or iodine, solid or in strong tincture—may coagulate the tissues, so as at least in some measure to hinder absorption ; the hot iron will actually destroy the venom. Instant excision has seemed, in some cases, to prevent ill effects,4 or, in the case of a finger, amputation may be resorted to, as more likely to remove the entire dose of the poison. A plan which has apparently much in its favor, is to slacken the ligature somewhat at intervals, say for five minutes at a time, so as to allow the poison to be admitted little by little, and thus to be dissipated. By slightly shifting the constricting band, so as to change the part of the limb pressed upon, some advantage will be gained. It must be remembered that the continuous application of a tight ligature for twenty-four hours, or even less, would greatly endanger the life of the constricted limb, and, al- though this would be a less evil than the death of the patient, it is one to be avoided if possible. Fomentations or poultices (a poultice of tobacco-leaves is a favorite Southern and Western remedy) are the best local applications. With these it will, of course, be proper to combine anodynes. The constitutional treatment in these cases is of the utmost importance, but is founded upon the very simple principle of sustaining the strength until the poison shall have been eliminated. To this end, stimulants are given as freely as the patient can bear them. Ammonia is valuable in this way, especially, perhaps, in the earliest stages, where its diffusibility renders its action very speedy. Along with it, and at a later period, whiskey seems to be the most reliable of our resources. Very large quantities have been taken under these circumstances without intoxication being induced. The object is not at all to bring about this condition, which would even favor the injurious effect of the poison, but simply to keep the vascular and nervous system stimulated to the activity required to effect elimination. Should life be maintained, the patient does not for some time feel the need of food ; but the addition of 1 The latest claim of this kind is made in a letter to the Medical Times and Gazette, Aug. 27, 1881. The writer says that Dr. Lacerda Filho asserts that the permanganate of potassium is in- fallible ; neither the dose nor the mode of administration is mentioned. Mr. Vincent Richards (quoted in the British Medical Journal, Dec. 31, 1881, from the Indian Medical Gazette), is said to have found this remedy effectual in neutralizing the cobra-poison. These statements certainly need confirmation. 2 See Pennock, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, May, 1828 ; and Rodrigue, ibid., Aug. 1828. 3 Op. cit. 4 Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. p. 229.