GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 449 tions, and it was also found that the “ indurated sore,” which under ordinary circumstances was inoculated upon the bearer with so much difficulty, could readily be inoculated if it were first irritated by powdered savin or by a seton, and made to produce pus, and that the sore thus arising resembled in every way the soft sore, the “ chancroid” of Clerc. By this means an unfortunate step backward was taken, and the two poisons which had been so carefully differentiated by Bassereau were once more con- founded together, and regarded as essentially one. But these experimenters had proved too much, for others following their lead inoculated simple non- venereal matter of inflammatory origin upon syphilitic subjects, with the result of producing pustules and ulcers identical with the chancroid, and capa- ble of reinoculation through a number of generations. The result of these various observations and speculations regarding the nature of venereal sores has been the gradual evolution of the following theory, which is held by a majority of the most distinguished sypliilographers of the present day, and which is accepted by the writer of this article:— The virus of venereal sores is of two distinct kinds. Some venereal sores are due to the inoculation of the syphilitic virus, others are due to the inoculation of a distinct specific virus known as chancroidal. These two poisons may be inoculated simultaneously.1 General Pathology. ■ Syphilis is a virulent, contagious, inoculable disease, having a sluggish evolution, and manifesting itself, in the acquired form, first by a chancre, then by eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes, subsequently by chronic in- flammations of the cellulo-vascular tissues and the bones, and finally by special productions in the form of small tumors or nodules called gummata.2 There are two forms of syphilis, the acquired and the hereditary. Both originate in the same virus, but their course, the lesions by which they are expressed, and the symptoms to which they give rise, are so different that they require a separate description. Acquired syphilis is the disease communicated by an infected person to one free from syphilis. It first shows itself, precisely at the point of inocula- tion, by an initial lesion or chancre. Hereditary syphilis is the disease derived from one or both parents, either by conception, or through the blood of the mother after conception. In this form of syphilis the initial lesion or chancre is wanting.3 Is chancre the first symptom of a generalized infection, or is it in the be- ginning merely a local lesion? Observers are not all agreed upon the answer 1 The other prevailing views represent the virus of chancroid either as, according to Clerc’s view given above, a sort of degenerated syphilitic virus, or as nothing more than purulent infec- tion, and the chancroid as in no way distinguishable from the product of the inoculation of pus from simple sores upon persons of peculiar constitution. Among the upholders of the latter view may be mentioned the late Prof. Freeman J. Bumstead, whose opinion justly carries great weight. I cannot, however, admit the identity of the chancroidal virus with that of simple purulent matter, for I believe that the clinical appearance and course of the chancroid are so peculiar as to establish its existence as a morbid entity. Two excellent papers by Dr. Bum- stead may be referred to in this connection, viz. : “ On the present state of the question of the unity or duality of syphilis,” Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1873, and “ The virus of venereal sores, its unity or duality,” Transactions of the International Medical Congress of Philadelphia, Phila., 1877. See also a review by Dr. Frederick Zinsser : “ The doctrines of unicism and dualism of the syphilitic contagion.” Am. Journ. Syph. and Derm., vol. i., 1870, p. 220. 2 Cornil, Leqons sur la Syphilis. Paris, 1879. 3 Bumstead and Taylor, The Pathology and Treatment of Venereal Diseases, 4th ed. Phila- delphia, 1879. VOL. II.—29