16 WOUNDS. seen; and these take place in the connective tissue—in which the vessels of the part ramify—a tissue that pervades every other, and which is made up of cell elements and inter-cellular tissue, the cell elements varying according to the nature of the part in which it is found. These changes consist of cell multiplication, and, under the circumstances supposed, we find between the edges of the wound a vast accumulation of cells, filling up in various degrees the spaces of this wounded tissue. It is through these cells that cica- trization takes place, these cells being in part simple nucleated cells, which may he called “ embryo cells,” with connective-tissue corpuscles containing a nu- cleus and nucleoli—Klein’s “ Placoicl Cells.”1 (Fig;. 200.) Whether this cell multiplication depends upon changes in the cell itself, as Virchow affirms, or whether the cells are the white corpuscles of the blood which have escaped by exudation from the capillaries, as Cohnheim would lead us to believe, I do not now care to inquire. All admit, however, the multiplication of cells in the affected tissues. Professor Redfern writes:2 “the facts must be recognized; the floating blood- cells arc really the very cells which once formed the substance of the lymphatic glands, the spleen, and other organs; and they do, in fact, move through the walls of the blood passages, and wander about freely in what are called solid tissues.” When we recollect how penetrable the tissues of an animal are, we shall cease to be startled at seeing those parts become the seat of entirely new deposits, or finding them traversed by migrating blood-corpuscles as freely as a colloid is penetrated by a crystalloid. Cicatrization.—Let us now inquire briefly how cicatrization proceeds, and note that it is in the cells that the most important changes are to be recog- nized. Those nearest the injured part gradually assume a spindle shape, and the intercellular tissue into which these spindle-shaped cells are infiltrated becomes denser. The spindle-shaped cells then gradually change into ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles, and in this way new cicatricial tissue is formed. (Fig. 201.) This new tissue, however, again undergoes changes—changes of consolidation. The intercellular tissue becomes gradually more condensed— the spindle-shaped cells also assuming the flat shape of connective-tissue cor- puscles, and in a measure disappearing, the nucleus often alone remaining— the fluid that existed in the newly formed tissue is absorbed, and the new cicatrix by degrees thus becomes firmer and denser, gradually contracting, so that at last the delicate scar of a large wound becomes solid and compact— the cicatrix in smaller wounds appearing only as a thin, red, and at a later period as a white line. Changes in the capillaries of the part are, however, going on during all this period, and how far all the changes that have been briefly described are due directly to the capillary action, is not yet determined. If Cohnheim’s views be adopted, it is to the capillaries that the chief action in the tissues must be ascribed, but if those of other pathologists, such as Virchow and Billroth, be accepted, the capillary action takes a secondary place, and the cell elements 1 Figs. 200-204 are taken from a valuable paper written by my friend, Mr. Golding-Bird, and published in Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s., vol. xxiv (1879). 2 Address at meeting of British Association, 1874. Fig. 200. A group of placoids in different stages of growth ; a, embryo cell wandering. (After Golding-Bird.)