THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 256 sensitive to the touch under the effect of excessive cold, and that the other senses participate, to a certain degree, in a partial reduction of the normal acuteness of nervous sensibility. When excessive cold has been applied to the body for a sufficient length of time to render recovery doubtful, still more care must be exercised in regard to the application of heat. Larrey says “ Woe to the man benumbed with cold ... if he entered suddenly into a too warm room, or came too near the great fire of a bivouac. The benumbed or frozen ex- tremities . . . were struck with gangrene, which manifested itself at the very instant, and developed itself with such rapidity that its progress was perceptible to the eye. Or else, the individual was suddenly suffocated by a kind of turgescence, which appeared to seize upon the pulmonary and cerebral system ; he perished as in asphyxia. Thus died the chief apothecary of the guard . . . Weakened by cold and absti- nence, a refuge was offered him in a very warm room of the hospital pharmacy; scarcely had he passed a few hours in this warm atmosphere, which was new to him, when his limbs, which he no longer felt, became swollen and bloated, and he expired soon after- wards in the arms of his son and of one of his colleagues, without being able to utter a single word.” [In the treatment of persons apparently dead from cold, besides the fric- tions with snow or ice, or tincture of camphor, etc., practised in a cold room, artificial respiration should be employed and continuously persisted in, if necessary, for several hours. Life may be sometimes saved in this way under circumstances which at first appear to be perfectly hopeless. Tedenat2 refers to a case treated by his father, in which the patient, a man seventy years old, had been buried in the snow for twenty-four hours, and yet escaped with superficial gangrene of the toes. The same author quotes from Pilhes the case of a blacksmith who was four days buried in snow, and from Reeve, the still more remarkable case of a woman who remained eight days buried in snow about six feet deep; both these persons were taken out alive, but perished afterwards from gangrene. Is ieolaysen reports a case in which the patient recovered, though the temperature in the rectum had fallen to 76.4° Fahr.] When, in spite of the treatment adopted, gangrene of the part follows, the application usually employed, in Canadian hospital practice, is a linseed-meal poultice, which facilitates the separation of the slough. As the dead part recedes from the living, a favorite dressing is carbolized oil, one to twenty. When once the lines of demarcation and separation are well and thoroughly defined, amputation may be performed. These cases are commonly attended with considerable debility, and require constitutional support by the free use of tonics and nourishing diet. Parts which have once been frozen are very liable to he again affected in the same manner, and hence more than ordinary care is necessary in such cases. Flannel is the great protective, combined with dryness of the parts, and a liberal supply of heat-producing articles of food. The question frequently arises as to whether alcoholic beverages lessen the disposition of the body to suffer from cold. The practical experience of every-day life demonstrates the contrary. Sir Garnet Wolesley, during his Northwest Expedition in the winter of 1870, avoided the use of spirits amongst his men, and, in consequence, not a single case of frost-bite was observed in the severe march from Thunder Bay to Winnipeg. Such, also, has been the experience of Arctic explorers; and, in Canada, it is well known that alcohol freely used during the winter season, tends to lessen the temperature of the body, and thus renders the individual more liable to the effects of cold. The carbon of alcohol is far inferior to that of good pork or bacon, as a heat-pro- ducing basis for supplying the normal requirements of the system, and thus fortifying it against the results of exposure. Op. cit., t. iv. p. 134. [* Des Gelures, p. 54. Paris, 1880.]