INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA:. 708 Bursa over Vertebra Prominens.—This bursa is quite large. Inflamma- tion, accompanied by a good deal of pain, may be set up by the pressure of a heavy overcoat or other clothing. The diagnosis must depend on the situ- ation of the affection, the tenderness of the part, and the characteristic signs of bursal swelling so often adverted to. Treatment.—Lead-water and laudanum applications should be made use of at night, while during the day all pressure of the clothing should he removed. To fulfil this indication, Agnew1 has successfully employed a circular pad stuffed with cotton, and kept in place by being stitched to the clothing. Although I am unaware of any case demanding more radical measures, should such occur, those remedies should he employed which were described in the general remarks upon the treatment of diseased bursae.2 Bursa: of the Trunk. These are infrequent, and are more apt to be adventitious than normal. They are found in the lumbar region, and upon the sides of the vertebral column, in those who carry burdens; over the sternum in cabinet-makers, from the pressure of the brace; over the xiphoid cartilage (bursa hyper- xiphoides3) in rachitic children; over the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; and over the coccyx. A synovial hernia communicating with one of the sterno- chondral joints in an infant, has been reported. Burs® are also found over gibbosities of the spinal column. A bursa has been found over the tuberosity of the first rib, between it and the dorsal muscles. Duval4 reports a bursa beneath the pubic attachment of the rectus abdominis. This sac is liable to become inflamed at the close of attacks of croupous pneumonia, when pain, which is exasperated by any movement which calls into play the rectus abdominis, is felt at the pubic origin of the muscle. Bursa: of Shoulder and Vicinity. A bursal sac is commonly found over the acromion process of the scapula, in timber-carriers, and another beneath the acromion, between this process and the coraco-acromial ligament on the one hand, and the capsule on the other—the sub-acromial. This is the largest bursa related to the shoulder, and in elderly persons it often communicates with the interior of the joint by a large open- ing. Another large bursa is placed between the subscapular muscle and the neck of the scapula and contiguous portion of the shoulder-joint capsule, into which it often opens; more commonly a second, smaller one occurs, situ- ated more externally, between the subscapular tendon and the capsule of the joint, with which, when present, it almost invariably communicates. A generally, although not invariably, constant bursa is placed between the tip of the coracoid process and the capsule; one or more hursse have been reported above this process (supra-coracoid); another elongated one is sometimes found between the united tendons of the coraco-brachial and short head of the biceps on the one hand, and the capsule on the other; one over the front of the clavicle (accidental); one over the root of the scapular spine, beneath the trapezius; an occasional one, which opens into the joint, placed between the infra-spinatus muscle and the capsule; one between the insertion of the tendon 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 840. 2 Vide supra. 9 Jacobi, Am. Jour. Obst., 1875, vol. viii. p. 165. 4 Gaz. des Hopitaux, Mai, 1854, p. 250.