469 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCRE. Diagnosis of Chancre. The diagnosis of chancre is sometimes easy, and at other times very diffi- cult, but it is always a matter of great importance, both on account of the prognosis, and also on account of the treatment which is to be followed. One of the first questions that suggests itself here is at what date can a positive diagnosis be reached. Patients not infrequently apply to the physi- cian with an abrasion of recent date, perhaps not twenty-four hours old, de- manding a categorical answer to the inquiry what may be the nature of the lesion. The answer to this can be of but one kind. It is impossible to say, at so early a date, what such a lesion may turn out to be. The most virulent chancre, leading to the most malignant form of general syphilis, is, in the earlier days of its appearance, one of the most benign of all lesions. A pin- scratch looks more threatening. In fact, where a mistake in diagnosis has been made, it has been, nine times out of ten, that the chancre has been mistaken for an abrasion. This fact should be kept in mind as giving a good notion of the ordinary appearance of a chancre when it first makes its appearance. It is not an ulcer; not a sore; it is an abrasion, or a scratch, to all appearance. A little later, when the chancre has begun to differentiate itself from lesions of similar appearance, two diagnostic points of much value present themselves. These are induration and glandular engorgement. All other diagnostic signs are delusive. The contour of the lesion, its form, its color, the aspect of its surface, etc., are variable, inconstant, and not to be trusted. But palpation of the base of the suspected lesion will almost invariably reveal a peculiar resistance, a hardening of the tissues, which, when present, is an almost certain sign of chancre. No other lesion likely to be mistaken for chancre presents this firmness of base, though when caustics or irritants have been used, there is often developed an inflammatory induration which is with difficulty distinguished from the induration of chancre.1 Again, if the suspected lesion is of some standing, at least one to two weeks, the pre- sence of glanglionic engorgement, that is, of a group of small, bullet-like, indolently swollen glands in the groin, will indicate almost with certainty that it is a chancre. Next to a simple abrasion or scratch, the lesion which is most likely to be mistaken for chancre, and vice versa, is herpes progenitalis. It is indeed often very difficult to distinguish between the two lesions. One of the first diag- nostic signs is that herpes is almost always accompanied at its first appear- ance by heat or burning of a local character, while chancre is completely indolent and without sensation. This sign, though of value, depends upon the subjective sensations of the patient,, and cannot, therefore, be entirely depended upon in many cases. More certain diagnostic signs are the con- dition of the ganglia, the presence or absence of induration, and the outline of the lesion. As to the ganglionic engorgement, this is not present where there are only one or two scattered lesions of herpes, but where the herpetic lesions are confluent and of some size, there is a ganglionic engorgement, differing from that of chancre, however, in being merely a slight sub-inflam- matory tenseness of the ganglia. The induration of chancre is marked; that of herpes, in the unusual circumstance of its being present, is nothing more than a very slight inflammatory firmness of the underlying tissues. The outline of the lesion is strongly insisted upon by Fournier as one of the most satis- 1 In investigating a suspected sore, tlie question should always be asked : “ Has any applica- tion been made ?”