ABSORPTION OR ORGANIZATION OP EXTRAVASATED SUBSTANCES. 5 the bleb, the serum can be made, by slight pressure, to move about from one point to another. This is not the case with the vesicles of a bruise. The latter are also attended by*pain and heat; those of gangrene by an absence of both heat and sensibility. In gangrene an offensive odor, and crepitation from the presence of gases, may also be observed. Absorption or Organization of Extravasated Substances. When^ the contusion is simple, and not followed by much inflammation, the extravasated fluids are soon absorbed, and the parts restored so fully to their original healthy condition that no evidence of injury can be found. This is sometimes the case in the contusions which attend severe fractures, the absorbents gradually taking up the deposit, which eventually is carried out of the body by some of its emunctories. The fluid portion of the extrava- sation is rapidly absorbed; the coagulated portion more slowly. When, how- ever, the injury is severe; or when it occurs in an individual whose health is impaired by some vice of constitution, the effusion of blood and bloody serum may remain for many weeks, or even months, unchanged. It may continue liquid, or may become solid, or may be partly solid and partly fluid. When the laceration is severe, and blood collects in a cavity, the effusion is called, as has been said, a blood tumor or luematoma. The walls of this cav- ity are formed of blood-clot, and condensed, cellular and other tissue. The tumor is thus circumscribed, having its boundaries well defined. We find such accumulations frequently accompanying contusions of the back, nates, and loins, and in other places where the cellular tissue is abundant. When the blood remains for some time unabsorbed, its presence causes adhesive inflammation, which closes the cells of the tissues around the deposit, and a thin layer of plastic matter is thrown out, which becomes organized and which is eventually lined by a layer of secreting cells. The walls of an old luematoma look very much like those of a thin-walled cyst or abscess. The diagnosis between blood tumor and abscess, or malignant disease, is not always easy. The affections may usually be distinguished by the history of the case —the haematoma coming on soon after contusion—and by the absence of signs of inflammation and engorgement of the parts around the swelling; and, if necessary, by use of the exploring needle and by microscopic examination of the contents of the swelling. The question whether blood extravasated in a contusion can be organized and become the nidus of a new growth, is an important and interesting one. John Hunter1 declared that he had reason “to believe that the coagulum has the power, under necessary circumstances, to form vessels in and of itself,” and this theory was practically accepted by Sir Astley Cooper and others of that day. Sir James Paget2 says: “There is sufficient reason to be- lieve that blood extravasated in a contusion may be organized;” but he adds, “Nevertheless, it is not probable that this organizing of blood is frequent after contusions; and the more exact the researches that are made, the less reason is there found to adopt the belief that blood extravasated in a contu- sion can become a tumor of any kind.” Rindfleisch says that the process of organization is effected by leucocytes which come from the tissues in the neighborhood of the clot, and not from the clot itself. It seems not at all improbable that the new growth has its origin, not in the clot, but in some plastic deposit left there by inflammation originally set up by the force which 1 Treatise oil the Blood, etc. Works (edited by J. F. Palmer), vol.iii. p. 119. London, 1835. 2 Article on Contusions. Holmes’s System of Surgery, Second edition, vol. i. p. 623. London, 1869.