501 TUBERCULAR SYPHILODERM. brown crust, on a superficial ulcer or erosion. The lesions are numerous, and are usually seated on the back, shoulders, and extremities, though they may occur elsewhere.1 It generally occurs between the sixth and the twelfth month of the disease, and runs a benign course. The deep variety possesses a larger, more raised, and bulky crust, some- times conical, and stratified like an oyster-shell—whence the name rupia, which is applied to this lesion as well as to the crusted form of the bullous syphiloderm. Beneath the crust the ulcer is seen to be excavated, deep, punched out, and covered with an unhealthy-looking, greenish-yellow, puri- form secretion. The lesions are less numerous than in the first variety, sometimes only three or four being present at any one time. It is a late and usually a malignant manifestation. Tubercular Syphiloderm. The eruption here consists of one or more solid elevations of the skin, varying in size from a split pea to a hazelnut; smooth, glistening, rounded or somewhat pointed, hard, and felt to be deeply seated. Their color varies from a brownish ham color, to a bright red or true copper color. Sometimes they have an intensely smoky-red hue, a color not met with in any other disease of the skin. They may occur singly or grouped together, but rarely in great numbers. They are apt to be confined to some single region of the body. When in large numbers they are apt to form tubercular patches. They may be irregu- larly grouped, or arranged in segments of circles. Serpiginous Form.—Sometimes a serpiginous tract is thus formed, the eruption being then known as the serpiginous tubercular syphiloderm, apt to be a very obstinate form of the disease.2 The tubercular syphiloderm is indolent, unaccompanied by any subjective symptoms, and occupying weeks and months in its development. It is a late manifestation, rarely showing itself before the second year, and generally not until later. Not infrequently it does not appear until five, ten, or even twenty years after the initial lesion, and in women, in whom the early symptoms of syphilis are sometimes entirely overlooked or ignored, the diagnosis is occa- sionally difficult. I have repeatedly met with cases where a single tubercle, the size of a split pea, situated perhaps in the angle of the ala nasi,3 and resembling to all but the experienced eye a lesion of acne, was the only representative of syphilis. In such cases it is vain to attempt to extract a history. No one is likely to remember the slight “ulcerated sore throat,” “fever blisters,” or “heat rash,” which may have attracted passing attention a dozen years previously. Yet the recognition of some small tubercular lesion will occasionally, perhaps, give the clue to obscure nervous symptoms which might otherwise go unexplained, and perhaps be erroneously treated. The lesions of the tubercular syphiloderm disappear in one of two ways— by absorption or ulceration. They may ulcerate superficially or deeply, usually the latter, the ulcer being deeply punched-out, horse-shoe shaped, or crescentic, aqd covered with a grayish-yellow deposit of gummy matter, or with a brownish crust. Ulceration may also attack a patch of grouped 1 See Duhring’s Atlas, Plate d. 2 See R. W. Taylor on the Serpiginous Tubercular Syphilide. Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., Jan. 1870. s The illustration in Plate XIII. Fig. 1, gives the characteristics of this lesion in a typical and well-marked case. I refer in the text to the possible occurrence of a single one of such nodules.