18S GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE NECK. and food-tubes. The existence of an opening into the pharynx or oesophagus may he proved by the ready escape, through the external wound, of liquids or semi-solids taken into the mouth; in many cases the presence of such an injury is but conjectural, from the line of direction of the shot; and occasion- ally it is revealed only by an autopsy. Persistent fistulas are not unlikely to follow such lesions. Outflow of alimentary substances through a laryngeal or tracheal wound does not necessarily indicate opening of the pharynx or oesophagus, as it is at times due to impaired functional integrity of the epi- glottis, permitting the entrance of food or drink from above into the air- passage. Much the most dangerous of the neck wounds are those involving the great vessels, many of these causing speedy death from primary hemorrhage. Oftentimes even the large arteries and veins escape injury in a remarkable manner, and, when wounded, bleeding is occasionally prevented temporarily by the bullet lodging against the opening and plugging it; or, after the first gush, the discharge of blood may be, though very seldom, permanently ar- rested by the presence of a clot. Traumatic aneurism is not infrequently developed, and arterio-venous aneurisms have also been observed in these cases. Extensive extravasations of blood may take place, at times causing serious or even fatal pressure upon the air-tube; and considerable quantities of blood have been found poured out within the carotid sheaths. Medium-sized bul- lets may lodge in the carotid artery or in the internal jugular vein, or may become encysted upon the vessel’s wall, or, after entering, may drop down and be arrested at a lower level. Wounds of the nerve trunks, unaccompanied by grave injuries of the bloodvessels, of the spine, of the head, or of the chest, cause the ordinary disturbances of motion and sensation in the parts supplied, and by reflex action, in certain rare cases, in regions quite remote. Lesion of the hypoglossal nerve has been followed by motor paralysis and unilateral atrophy of the tongue;1 that of the sympathetic, by contracted pupils,.ptosis, and flushing of one side of the face;2 to injury of the pneumogastric, was attributed by Larrey the intense thirst which is at times experienced by the subjects of oesophageal wounds; injury of the brachial plexus, whether pro- duced by ball or bone fragment, very often causes not only the usual mus- cular affections in the upper extremity, but trophic changes in the skin, and that burning pain (causalgia) which is “the most terrible of all the tortures which a nerve wound may inflict.” (Mitchell.) Mere pressure of a lodged ball may give rise to severe nervous symptoms, which disappear with "the removal of the foreign body. Of this an instance is reported by Sawtelle, in which pain, clonic contractions, and sensitiveness to heat and cold, were through nearly seven years produced by a conoidal ball that entered “about half an inch above the left clavicle and about one inch from its sternal extremity, passed transversely between the trachea and the oesophagus,” and lodged on the right side “ between the subclavian and a branch of the brachial plexus, the ball resting on the artery just where it emerges from beneath the clavicle, with the nerve drawn tightly across the missile in front.” Removal of the bullet was followed by rapid healing and progressive relief of suffering, so that in two and a half years the recovery was declared to be entire, “ with the exception of a very slight sensitiveness of the fingers to cold and heat.” Occasionally several of the important nerves are simultaneously injured, as in a case reported by Stromeyer, in which the phrenic, the pneumogastric, the middle ganglion of the sympathetic, and the descenclens noni, were wounded together with the larynx and pharynx. It sometimes happens that a deeply penetrating shot, although it may not directly damage important structures, 1 Mitchell, Injuries of Nerves, pp. 218, 335. Philadelphia, 1872. * Ibid., p. 318.