GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 318 perate and ill-fed. Nevertheless, there are periods in the year, and also special years, in which there is a greater proportion of cases of this disease than during average years. Causes of Carbuncle.—The causes of carbuncle are but little understood. It has generally been believed to depend upon some peculiar constitutional vice of a temporary character; upon some abnormal fluid, the result of dietetic error. Some pathologists, however, have regarded its origin as purely local. It has also been asseverated that eating the flesh of animals afflicted with disease, such as the pleuro-pneumonia of cattle, has proved to be a frequent cause. It must be confessed, however, that while it seems probable that there is some specific cause for this disease, such a cause is still unknown. Among the predisposing causes, we may regard glycosuria as one well estab- lished. Some observers have been disposed to believe there is a very frequent connection between the two conditions, as glycosuria has been known to exist in persons during the existence of a carbuncle, who suffered from it neither before nor after the attack. But we know that glycosuria occasionally occurs as an evanescent condition, and it is more probable that this should give rise to a carbuncle than that a carbuncle should give rise to glycosuria. More- over, since attention has been called to the matter, extended observation of the urine has shown that the combination is after all a rare one. But the fre- quency of the occurrence of carbuncle in chronic diabetics is a fact well estab- lished, and the disease under such circumstances is attended with much danger. It will be needless to say that in the treatment of such a case, the strictest confinement of the patient’s diet to what is well known as the “ diabetic list” is absolutely imperative. Pathology of Carbuncles.—The views that have been entertained with reference to the -pathology of anthrax are various. Dupuytren believed that it was an inflammation of bundles of cellular tissue contained in the areolae of the derma. He described the derma as thick, white, and elastic, more consistent at its external than at its internal surface. The fibres, he said, interlaced, and were filled witli bundles of cellular tissue. These were impregnated with a fatty fluid which distended the cells that contained it. The numerous areolai of the derma had all a nearly conical form. Their summits corresponded to the reticular body, and their bases to the internal surface of the skin which reposed in all parts upon a layer of cellular tissue. As we shall see hereafter, this histological description comes very near the truth, and must be regarded as remarkably accurate for the time at which it was written. But Dupuytren committed a great error when he added that anthrax only differed from furuncle by the extent and multiplicity of the cellular bundles which were inflamed at the summit. Sanson described anthrax as an inflammation of the processes of cellular tissue which accom- pany the vessels and nerves through the true skin; and declared that it dif- fered only from furuncle in the extent of cellular tissue engaged. According to this writer, the mortification of the walls of the areolse of the derma depends upon the distension to which they are submitted by the cellular tissue attempting to swell. Nelaton proposed another view of the pathology of carbuncle. lie believed there was no strangulation, and that the “ core” was not gangrenous areolar tissue, but a simple product of secretion—a veri- table pseudo-membrane. The essential characteristics of anthrax and furun- cle he regarded as identical, and maintained that these aft'eetions differed from each other only in form. As recent a writer as Professor Billroth regards furuncle and carbuncle as identical, and differing only in degree.