508 SYPHILIS. tions asked of a patient from whom it is desired to elicit a history of syphilis is, “have you ever had crusts or scabs on the scalp, or falling of the hair?” Papular and pustular eruptions may indeed give rise to alopecia, but this variety, like the first mentioned, is only temporary, the hairs being renewed when the lesions are cured, excepting in those cases of pustular eruptions where the hair follicles may have been destroyed. A third variety of alopecia occurring in the course of syphilis is that met with late in the disease, when ulceration of the scalp has occurred with de- struction of the follicles. This variety is, of course, irremediable. Syphilitic alopecia requires nothing more than the usual constitutional reme- dies in order to cure it completely; nevertheless, for the purpose of quieting the patient’s mind, and also, perhaps, to hasten a return to the normal condi- tion, certain topical applications may be employed with advantage.1 The following is a good tonic hair wash:— R—Tinct. cantharidis, f 3v. Tinct. capsici, f'3ij. 01. ricini, f'3v- Aq. cologniensis, ad f§iv M. In some cases this pomade may be more conveniently employed. R—Medullas bovis, Jss. Tinct. cantharidis, n^xx. Hydrarg. chlor. corros. gr. ss. 01. rosse, "ill—M. Syphilis of the Mucous Membranes.2 The term mucous patch is sometimes used indiscriminately to designate both syphilitic lesions, other than ulcers, occurring on mucous membranes, and also moist papules of the cutaneous or mueo-cutaneous surface. Although there is a strong similarity in many respects between certain syphilitic lesions of the external integument and those of the mucous membranes, yet for con- venience’s sake I have chosen to consider them under distinct heads, giving the name moist papule to the lesion of the general integument (see description of the Large Papular Syphiloderm), and reserving the name mucous patch for the lesion as found upon the mucous membranes. The Seat of Moist Papules and Mucous Patches. The statistics of Davasse and Deville3 show that in 186 women these lesions were seated:— Upon the vulva in .... 174 cases. About the anus ...... 59 u On the perineum ..... On the buttocks and the inner and upper as- 40 u pect of the thighs ..... 38 u On the tonsils ...... 19 u On the nose ...... 8 <4 On the tongue ...... 6 U About the toes ...... 5 u 1 For further information, see : Dulaurier, Alopgcie ; gufirison par les Preparations Mercurielles (Gaz. des Hop., 1864, p. 310) ; Donet, Syphilis Constitutionelle ; Alopgcie (Gaz. des Hop., 1864, p. 250) ; Fournier, De l’Alopecie, de l’Onyxis et du Perionyxis comme accidents de la P6riode Secondaire de la Syphilis (Annales de Dermatologie et de Sypli., t. iii., 1871, p. 12). See, also, Fournier, Leijons, etc., 2e ed., p. 347. 2 For further description of the various lesions of the mucous membranes, especially the later ones, see Syphilis of the Digestive Tube, etc. 3 Des Plaques Muqueuses. Archives Gen. de Med., 1845.