3 SYMPTOMS OF CONTUSIONS. Symptoms of Contusions. The symptoms which generally follow contusions are shock, pain, swelling, and discoloration. Shock.—Unless the individual has some unusual nervous susceptibility, shock is rarely present in cases of slight contusion; and even in those of a more serious character, it is not generally as severe as the gravity of the acci- dent would lead us to expect. If some of the internal viscera, however, are involved, the shock may be at once fatal, or may become so after a feeble attempt at reaction. In the case of a soldier whom I saw, struck by a Minie ball on the metal buckle of his sword-belt, the injury producing contusion of the front wall of the belly, witli violent concussion of the abdominal contents, but without any appreciable lesion of the internal viscera, death from shock followed in a few moments. Contusion of the testicle is attended by severe shock and by nausea and vomiting, with great loss of muscular power, and with a tendency to fainting. Pain.—The effect first experienced from a contusion is commonly more or less paralysis of motion and sensation. A violent blow upon the leg may cause the recipient to fall from sudden loss of muscular power. The numb- ness or dead feeling which first follows the blow is soon succeeded by heavy, aching pain, severe and lasting according to the violence of the injury and the nature of the part struck. If the trunk of a nerve be involved in the injury, the pain is burning and tingling, and may extend to the terminal branches of the nerve. If the soft parts alone are contused, the pain soon disappears, and, if the injury is slight, is relieved by rubbing with the hand. But when fibrous tissue, such as that found about a joint or a superficial bone, is involved, the part remains tender and intolerant of any manipulation or pressure for a long time. Swelling occurs soon after the injury. At first the parts may he condensed or compressed by the blow, as is sometimes seen in injuries of the scalp, where, the skin and cellular tissue being compressed, and the vessels paralyzed at the seat of injury, swelling takes place in the parts around. This condi- tion may easily be mistaken for fracture with depression of the bone, or, even if fracture be present, the depression may be thought to be greater than it really is. This compressed state of the soft parts, when present, slowly passes off, and the part then becomes swollen from the effusion of blood which escapes from the ruptured vessels, and from the exudation of serum and fibrin which are poured out from the bloodvessels of the contused parts. It is to the latter cause that the swelling of contusion is principally due. The “ bump” produced on a child’s head by a blow, and the welts on an animal’s skin caused by the lash of a whip, are the result of exudation of bloody serum poured out from the vessels of the contused part, the violence inflicted causing rapid determination of blood to the site of injury, and sudden distension and elonga- tion of the bloodvessels. The extent of the swelling will depend upon the size of the injured vessels, the violence o'f the lesion, and the looseness or firmness of the tissue involved. In the eyelids, scrotum, penis, and labia, the swelling is generally very great. The extravasation comes for the most part from the veins, the walls of which are more easily injured than those of the arteries. When an artery of any size is lacerated, blood is poured out rapidly, forming a spurious aneurism,