SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 670 Pediculosis Corporis.—-The body louse is, strictly speaking, a clothes louse, for it breeds upon the clothing, and only bites the skin to draw blood as its food. It is somewhat larger than the head louse, which it closely resembles. It lays its eggs in the folds and seams of the garments, and its eggs may be readily discovered by examining these parts. Its bite or puncture produces a minute, papular efflorescence, which by scratching generally exhibits a tip capped by dried blood. The whole surface of the body, excepting the head and hands, may be thickly covered in this way, with long scratch marks interspersed. The eruption is generally most marked upon the trunk, espe- cially so upon the upper parts, front and back. When lice have infested the body for a long time, it may be during the whole life, as among the filthy races of some parts of Europe, the skin, in addition to this excoriated, papu- lar eruption, may present much graver lesions, such as pustules, ecthymatous crusts, and extensive sores, and may gradually take on an intense degree of pigmentation, as the result of the long-sustained bypereemia of its tissues. Such a condition has been called “ vagabond’s disease” (Morbus erronum). Treatment.—This is to be directed to the clothes, not to the skin, which in ordinary cases rapidly recovers its healthy condition after the lice have been destroyed. All the clothing that can be so treated, should be thrown into boiling water, and the outer garments should be baked, or ironed along all their seams with as hot a flatiron as can be used without burning them. The bedclothing may be treated in the same way, but this is rarely necessary. The l)odt)r may be thoroughly rubbed with soft soap, and soaked in a hot bath, before putting on fresh clothing. Mild, soothing ointments may some- times be used upon the skin for a few days, with advantage, to quiet the irri- tability of its nerves. Pediculosis Pubis— The pubic louse (phthirius) differs materially in shape from the pediculi of the head and clothes, being shorter and broader. It attaches itself to the hairs of the pubic region, and to those of the legs and surface of the abdomen, in hairy men. It is found also in the axilla, and, in rare cases, even upon the eyelashes. It has a reddish color. Its eggs are attached to the hair in all these regions. It draws blood from the skin at the roots of the hairs, and produces great irritation, in consequence of which a papular eruption is developed, and often acute eczematous inflammation. Pubic lice are generally acquired during impure sexual intercourse. Treatment.—These lice may be destroyed by smearing the parts, if not too extensive, a few times with mercurial ointment, but better generally by the use of petroleum, in the manner described in speaking of Pediculosis capitis. Note on the Pathology of Leprosy. In 1873, Hansen called attention to the presence of bacteria in leprous tis- sues. Within the last year or two this subject has received particular study from many observers, especially Aeisser, Cornil, and Suchard. According to these writers, the same forms of bacilli have been found in leprous neoplasms derived from patients in many parts of the world where the disease exists. These organisms are staff-like or rod-like bodies, having a length of from half to three-quarters that of a red blood corpuscle, and a breadth one-fourth of their length. They occupy the large round cells, which are so abundant in the fibrous structure of the skin in leprous tubercles, distending the protoplasm at times by their great numbers. They are arranged in parallel rows, or are placed end to end in chains of two or three. They are not found in any epi- thelial tissues nor in the bloodvessels.