GENITAL CHANCRES. 463 Differential Diagnosis between Chancre and Chancroid of the Cervix Uteri. (Fournier, op. cit., p. 300.) c5 O . O m to -2 o <U O. cj 03 £ 's-g a .2 tin-2 m 53 Chancre of the Cervix. I. Habitually single on the cervix. Rarely multiple. II. Commonly of limited extent. ' III. Always erosive, or papulo- erosive. IY. Of an opaline tint, grayish and pseudomembranous. V. Coincidently, at the vulva, either ab- sence of any lesion, or chancres.1 YI. Auto-inoculation negative. Chancroid of the Cervix. I. Single or multiple (often single from the fusion of several neighboring sores). II. Often extensive. III. Sometimes ulcerative with irregular jagged edges; sometimes also papu- lar, but with irregularities of surface depressions and elevations. IY. Yellow or yellowish in color, and of a brighter tint than the grayish dusky shade of the chancre. V. Coincidently, at the vulva, chancroids of unmistakable character, and more or less numerous. In some cases chancroids in the vaginal ampulla in the neighborhood of the cervix. VI. Auto-inoculation producing a chan- croid. Chancres of the cervix must sometimes be differentiated from follicular ulcers. These are small, cup-shaped, situated in the follicles, and usually no larger than the follicle from which they are derived. Catarrh of the cervix, hypertrophy of the cervix, fluor albus, etc., are also accompaniments of follicular ulceration of this region. Simple erosions sometimes resemble chancre, but only in the earliest stage of the latter. Papillary erosion, a meta- morphosis of simple erosion characterized by the dark red points of papilhe denuded of their epithelium, which are scattered over the surface and ac- companied by cervical and vaginal catarrh, must also be differentiated. The so-called herpetic ulcer may sometimes resemble chancre, hut it is apt to he multiple, and the lesions run together forming an irregularly outlined sore. In addition, little herpetic ulcers tend to rapid cure. Carcinoma is distin- guished from chancre of the cervix uteri by its crater-like excavation, the depth of the sore, with irregular, thick, hard, bosselated edges; the uneven floor, covered with a dirty, purulent, and ill-smelling secretion; the frequently accompanying hypertrophy of the cervix, with immobility of the uterus itself as the growth progresses; the occasional stubborn bleeding; the pain; and finally the age of the patient. Tuberculous ulcers of the cervix are almost unknown as primary appearances, and are accompanied by signs of tubercu- losis in other organs.2 Chancres of the Yagina.—Chancre of the vagina (excepting in that por- tion immediately within the vulvar ring), is excessively rare. Among 249 chancres of the female genital organs, Fournier saw only one in the vagina, and that doubtful. Binet,3 in 128 chancres of the female genitalia, only observed two cases. The vaginal mucous membrane with its thick layers of epithelium is seldom eroded in sexual intercourse, and this will account for 1 A reservation must be made in the possible but exceptional circumstance of double contagion. 2 See an excellent article on the diagnosis of chancres of the cervix, by Rasmussen (Viertel- jahrsschr. fur Dermatologie und Syphilis, Bd. viii. S. 517), of which an abstract may be found in the Philadelphia Medical Times, March 26, 1881. 3 La France MSdicale, t. i. p. 38 ; abstract in Archives of Dermatology, July, 1881, p. 334.