631 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. and proceeding upwards beyond the extent of the swelling, using as much force as can be borne without pain. At times it is necessary to treat an inci- dental eczema upon the surface, or ulceration of the integument, before com- pression can be properly employed. More favorable results are to be expected from the use of the rubber bandage than were obtained before its introduction, because it can be readily applied by the patient himself, and because it con- tinues to exert its constricting action throughout the day, whereas bandages made of other materials become relaxed in a few hours, and must be read- justed several times during the day to be of service. By the use of the elastic bandage the size of the limb may be gradually reduced to a considerable extent, the progress of the disease checked, and locomotion made much easier. It of course cannot be laid aside except during the night, and must be worn through life. As a radical measure of relief, ligation of the femoral artery has been performed in numerous cases ; first by Dr. Cartiochan, of New York, in 1857, and since then by surgeons everywhere. The shutting off of so large a supply of nutritive fluid as this operation effects, with the long consequent rest of the limb in a horizontal position, reduces its bulk of course, but, as the collateral circulation is in process of time established, and as the leg is used, the disease renews its activity, and the part may grow to exceed its former dimensions. An analysis made by Wernher of the results of this operation upon large arteries, in 32 cases, showed in all an immediate reduction of the size of the limb, but the relief was permanent in three cases only. Compres- sion of the main artery is attended by similar results. [Leonard, of Bristol, found that of 69 operations, 40 ended in recovery (3 of these after digital com- pression of the artery); relief was afforded in 13 more; and only 16 were entirely unsuccessful.] Dr. Morton, of Philadelphia, has tried1 nerve section in a case in which ligation of the femoral artery had been performed two years previously without permanent benefit. An inch and a half was cut out from the sciatic nerve at about the middle of the thigh, and the operation was followed within six weeks by a reduction of eight and a half inches in the circumference of the limb. Amputation has also been resorted to in many cases, but the results have generally been unfavorable. In elephantiasis of the genitals, compression is impracticable, but excision is generally successful. The enormous pendent growths met with in the female organs are easily removed by simple amputation. When the scrotum is af- fected, the following directions for a plastic operation, given by Pruner, as quoted by Kaposi,2 may be followed. In case the penis is still free, the patient having been placed in position for lithotomy, “ whereby the tumor is prop- erly supported and the penis bent backwards, above, two lateral, semilunar incisions are made from the end of the scrotal raphe, where it is in contact with the root of the penis, towards the margin of the anus. These incisions mark out the two oval flaps which, when carefully dissected up, form the arti- ficial scrotum. After these two flaps have been made, the testicles and the spermatic cords are freed by downward cuts, on each side, at right angles to the flaps, and by careful separation of the tissues beneath; and any existing complications, as hydrocele, for instance, having been removed, then the por- tion of the tumor attached to the perineum is carefully and thoroughly ex- cised, when the whole mass of the tumor falls away The testes and spermatic cords, which, in the mean time, have been wrapped up in a warm cloth, moistened with mucilage, and placed upon the abdomen, are now brought down and inclosed in the two lateral flaps, which are brought into 1 Philadelphia Medical Times, January 19, 1878, and Surgery in the Pennsylvania Hospital, p. 118. Philadelphia, 1880. 2 Hebra and Kaposi on Diseases of the Skin (New Sydenham Society’s edition), vol. iii. p. 157.