529 SYPHILIS OF THE RACEMOSE GLANDS. very marked, or at least the characteristic discoloration of the cancerous cachexia. Hydatid Cyst.—A fluctuating, globe-like projection, larger than that of the syphilitic disease, advancing toward the epigastrium, and often simulating a lesion of the stomach. Pathognomonic vibratory trembling. Digestive troubles. Dyspnoea. Ascites rare. Drunkard’s liver is distinguished anatomically from syphilis of the liver by its localization at the periphery of the lobule. The neoplasm incloses the lobule, hut does not penetrate it—does not interpose between the cellules. Clinically, the lesions are more extensive than those of syphilis; ascites is more frequent. The course of the disease is slow. There are various digestive symptoms coincident: dyspepsia and anorexia; also nervous disturbances, as formication, cramps, and trembling. The prognosis of hepatic syphilis is grave. If the affection can he taken in time it may be cured in many cases, hut if atrophy has set in, the prognosis is very serious. Treatment.—The “mixed treatment” offers the best chance for a cure. It is better than the use of either mercury or iodine alone. The literature of hepatic syphilis, particularly that which relates to the pathological anatomy of the disease, is very abundant, much attention having been paid to the subject in the last few years.1 Syphilis of the Racemose Glands. Mammary Glands.—The mammary glands are rarely attacked by syphilis, hut twenty cases, according to Jullien, are on record. The affection is of two kinds, diffuse sclerous infiltration, and localized gummy deposit. The first variety is apt to he met with among men. Tt is a comparatively early manifestation, and is characterized by diffuse tumefaction, by tenderness on pressure, without external inflammatory appearance, and by rapid disap- pearance under specific treatment. The gummatous affection of the mammary glands is a late syphilitic mani- festation, and is much commoner among women. When first noticed, the gumma is often buried deeply in the tissue of the mammary gland, and may easily be mistaken for an adenoid, tumor. It grows in size, however; some- times attaining that of an egg or an apple, or even (in one case reported by Sauvage) that of a child’s head. The tumor is irregular and bosselated, and sometimes accompanied by ganglionic engorgement. As it approaches the surface of the skin, fluctuation, or at least the sensation of a softened infil- trated tissue, is perceived, a point of decided diagnostic importance. If not influenced by treatment, the skin softens, and an ulcer is formed. It is not always easy to distinguish this lesion from cancer, and, unless some concomitant and unmistakable syphilitic symptoms are present to guide to a conclusion, the only plan to follow is to use the “ touchstone of treat- ment.” But an unnecessary surgical operation may be avoided, perhaps, by giving in doubtful cases the iodide of potassium, or perhaps the “mixed treatment,” and watching its effects. Salivary Glands.—Lancereaux has reported a case where the submaxillary gland, in a patient dying in full tide of syphilis, was found affected by 1 The following writers may be particularly referred to, and in their works will be found numerous references to the contributions of others : Lancereaux, Traite de la Syphilis, 2e 6d. Paris, 1878 ; Quinquaud, Affections du Foie, Premiere Fascicule ; Lacombe, These de Paris, 1873 ; Leudet, Recherches Cliniques sur l’Etiologie, la Curabilite et le Traitement de la Syphilis Hfipatique (Arch. Gen. de Med., Fev. 1866) ; Cornil, Leqons sur la Syphilis. Paris, 1879. VOL. II.—34