260 ABSCESSES. duced by some form of local irritation, as for example urinary or fecal extra- vasation, effusions of blood undergoing retrograde change, retained and acrid sebaceous material, or, in rare instances, by such parasites as hydatids, or, more rarely still, in ordinary practice, by the filaria medinensis; or by lumbrici escaped from the intestine and lodged in the abdominal wall; by calculi, whether in the tonsil, the ducts of other salivary glands, or in the kidney or prostate ; by necrosed fangs of teeth, or by portions of bone quietly exfoliated after injury; or by foreign bodies—such as fragments of wood, etc.—whose accidental introduction beneath the surface has perhaps been overlooked. The foregoing list will suffice to show on what a variety of local causes sup- puration may depend, and will at the same time direct attention to the neces- sity of ascertaining the circumstances under which abscess has occurred, before deciding how it may be appropriately treated. Under the title of “Residual Abscess,” Sir James Paget1 has described “ abscesses formed in or about the residues of former inflammations.” “Most of them,” the author writes, “ are formed when pus, produced long previously, has been wholly or in part retained, and become dry or in some form obso- lete.” But some of them, it is probable, are formed “in the thickenings and adhesions, and other lowly organized products of inflammations long past.” Several illustrative cases are given in the paper referred to, among which was that of a woman of 30, admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in good general health, with a circumscribed swelling over the sacro-iliac symphysis, painless and elastic. It was thought to be a fatty tumor, but the operation begun (by Mr. Stanley) for its removal let out pus from a cavity leading, by a narrow track, to the hip-joint. Disease of this joint had existed twenty years previously, and had subsided without apparent suppura- tion, after a year’s rest. The patient had remained lame with stiffness of the joint, but with no other distress, and the abscess had not been observed for more than two years before it was opened. Another case was that of a woman, aged 38, in whom an abscess formed in the head of the tibia twenty-eight years after some necrosis of the bone, the limb having in the interval been apparently quite sound. A patient has lately been under treatment at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, who sus- tained a compound fracture of his humerus twenty-five years ago at the battle of Bala- klava. The fracture had united favorably, and the soft parts had healed in the course of about three months ; and for nearly twenty-four years the patient had been constantly at work, and had thought the limb sound. Two months before his admission, the arm, at the seat of injury, had become swollen and very painful. A large abscess formed, and was evacuated by incision. It quickly healed, and within two months the patient was able to return to his work. The side of the rectum, Sir James Paget remarks, is a locality in which, hardnesses marking the sites of former inflammation threatening or pro- ducing abscesses, are nearly sure to suppurate, though many years of apparent quietude may have elapsed; and he gives one case in which fourteen years,, and another in which ten years, passed between the time of healing of an abscess in this situation and that at which a renewal of suppuration in the residues of scar and unsound tissue, which it had left, ensued.2 Yet these cases are not always thus favorable. The amount of obsolete material to be dis- charged, including bone-detritus, may be so large that the patient’s strength is dangerously taxed by pain, and by copious and prolonged suppuration. A young lady was recently under the care of Sir James Paget, with a residual abscess following, after a long interval, on disease of the spine. Suppuration was profuse, and 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays, 2d edition, p. 309. London, 1879. 2 [The editor has under observation a case in which two such renewals of suppuration have, in the course of years, ensued in the site of an old, cured fistula-in-ano, the “ residual abscess” in. each instance healing within a few days after the evacuation of its contents.]