TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 137 nature and location of the foreign body may be determined. But a pene- trating wound of either of the three great cavities, no matter how made, is to be explored only so far as to prove that the bullet has passed through the wall. Though by judicious probing, as we shall see hereafter, it may be possible to ascertain the location of a missile, and thus determine the feasi- bility of an attempt at removal; yet the most experienced surgeon may easily and unknowingly produce visceral injury in a fruitless effort to trace the course of a shot, and the safest rule for general adoption is that just given. Not so very seldom in pistol wounds, the surgeon and his probe together do more harm than the bullet. The existence and position of the foreign body having been ascertained, it should be removed, if this can be done without too much risk. For this purpose the finger or forceps, one or both, will usually be employed. Bullet forceps of many patterns have been used from time to time, the best at the present day having rather slender but very firm jaws, with or without slightly projecting teeth that will take a secure hold of the hall. (Fig. 252.) The Coxeter forceps (Fig. 253) has long been a favorite with English surgeons, Fig. 252. Bullet forceps (U. S. Army pattern). hut there lies against it the serious objection that it is often very difficult to carry its scoop under and beyond the shot. For the extraction of small pistol Fig. 253. Coxeter's bullet extractor. bullets, or bird-shot, the common dressing forceps answers very well. When the ball is fixed in a bone, or wedged between two bones, an elevator may often be employed to advantage, or a sequestrum forceps, or some one of the many forms of tirefond or screw instrument. The bullet can often be removed much more easily through a counter-opening than through the original wound, care being taken to thoroughly fix the foreign body, and to divide all of its coverings by an incision that shall at least equal in length the diameter of the shot. Not infrequently it happens that the extraction of the foreign body is no easy matter; it should never be roughly jerked away, but the track should be enlarged with the knife if necessary. Much has been written and said about the proper way of grasping the missile, but “ the truth is that, on most occasions, one seizes the projectile or the foreign body as he can; the important thing is to seize it firmly, so that it may not escape from the jaws of the forceps during the extraction.” As respects pieces of bone, the rule is to remove only those fragments that are entirely detached, leaving the others either to be thrown off at a later period, or