518 SYPHILIS. which may, in some cases, interfere with phonation or audition. Late affec- tions of the pharynx are very apt to he present, or to have existed, in cases of cerebral syphilis. The treatment of syphilis of the pharynx is, in the first place, that of the constitutional affection; then, the local applications described under the head- ing of lesions of the mouth, and, in addition to these, the use of medicated vapors by means of the atomizer, as described by Wigglesworth. Bumstead and Taylor employ saturated solutions of nitrate of silver, applying the vapor by an arrangement of glass tubes which permit the spray to be directed to the very seat of the disease. (Esophagus.—The occurrence of stricture of the oesophagus as a result of syphilis was, according to Bumstead and Taylor, first pointed out by James F. West, of Birmingham,1 who reported a case where, without direct evi- dence of syphilitic disease of the oesophagus, the collateral evidence of such disease, as giving rise to fatal stricture, was very strong. Other cases have since been reported, among them a very interesting one by the late Dr. F. F. Maury, of Philadelphia,2 where gastrostomy was performed. As yet, how- ever, direct evidence of syphilitic lesions in the oesophagus leading to stric- ture has not been presented, though gummata have been found in the walls of the tube. The treatment in suspected cases would, of course, be the usual anti-syphilitic treatment, strongly pushed in the earlier stages. In the cica- tricial stage, dilatation with bougies is a palliative measure; or the establish- ment of an oesophageal or gastric fistula might be resorted to in extremity. Stomach and Intestines.—Functional disturbance of the digestive organs, shown by loss of appetite or by inordinate desire for food, as well as by oc- casional vomiting, is not uncommon, especially during the earlier stages of syphilis. Whether the same organic changes ma}r occur in these viscera as are observed in the external parts during the earlier stages of syphilis, is a question as yet undecided. Late lesions, as gummatous infiltration followed by ulceration of the stomach and intestines, may however occur, and cases of this kind have been reported where post-mortem examination proved the existence of quite extensive disease. The- symptoms during life were those of dyspepsia or chronic diarrhoea, hut little more.3 In many reported cases, iodide of potassium was employed in large doses by the stomach, or, where this was irritable, in the form of enemata (gr. xv-lxxv to water, siv-vj). Rectum and Anus.—Many cases of so-called syphilitic stricture of the rectum are, in reality, nothing more than the contraction due to chancroidal ulcers.4 In these, of course, specific anti-syphilitic treatment is without avail. The early syphilitic lesions may also, according to Barduzzi, produce stricture of the rectum.6 But it is in the later stages of the disease that this condition is most likely to be produced. Syphilitic stricture of the rectum is much commoner among women than among men. Statistics collated by Jullien show that of 60 cases, 7 were in men and 58 in women. What the reason of this diversity may be, it is impossible to say. Many women date the beginning of their trouble to a previous preg- nancy. The affection is commonest in middle life. ' Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, February, 1860. 2 Am. Jour. Med. Sci., April, 1870. 3 See Cornil, op. cit., p. 406 ; Cullerier, De l’Ent4rite Syphilitique, Union Med., 1854, t. iv.; Lancereaux, op. cit., p. 248. 4 The occurrence of chancre of the rectum is more than doubtful. 8 Giorn. Ital. d. Mai. Yen., No. 1, 1875.