340 GONORRIICEA. Prostatitis. Not as frequent a complication of gon- orrhoea as a mild form of cystitis. Perineal and rectal pain. Pain violent and throbbing, aggravated during defecation. Pain not markedly severe at the end of urination. Tenesmus not always present. Stream of urine diminished in size. Retention of urine common. Urine not much changed in appearance. Rectal examination shows enlargement and great tenderness of the prostate. Cystitis. Occurs in its lower grades in perhaps one-fourth of all cases of gonorrhoea. Possibly a little tenderness of perineum on pressure, but no rectal pain. Pain burning, not especially affected by defecation. Much pain in passing the last drops of urine. Tenesmus constant and severe; very characteristic. Size of stream not always affected. Retention of urine rare. Urine turbid and ropy, last drops mixed with blood. No prostatic enlargement or tenderness recognizable by rectal examination. Two conditions are said by Mr. Reginald Harrison closely to simulate acute prostatitis, the first being inflammation and suppuration around the membranous portion of the urethra as a consequence of urethritis; and the second, inflammation and plugging of the veins constituting the prostatic plexus. The diagnosis between the former condition and prostatitis should be made chiefly by the situation of the swelling, which here will be peri- neal, while in inflammation of the prostate it is difficult to imagine how the tumefaction can invade the region of the perineum. It certainly does not become apparent there when the prostate is hypertrophied in old age. When suppuration occurs, the pus may be discharged by a perineal opening, when it arises from a peri-urethritis; it never is so in prostatitis.1 The other disordered condition is said to be rare. Mr. Harrison, who has only seen two cases of it, describes the primary lesion as oedema of the pre- puce dependent upon plugging of the dorsal vein of the penis. In both cases a feeling of perineal weight, frequent micturition, and uneasiness referred to the neck of the bladder, come on in a few days. Rectal examination is said to have determined that these symptoms were not due to any inflamma- tion of the gland, but to the extension of the vein-blocking to the prostatic plexus. I have never seen such cases, and do not believe that digital examination per rectum will disclose with any definiteness the condition of the veins said to be involved. On the other hand, a follicular prostatitis not extending to any depth from the urethra, will often give rise to no general tumefaction of the gland, and to little or no tenderness on rectal pressure, while at the same time it would produce all the above-mentioned symptoms. Probably autop- sies alone can determine the existence or non-existence of this alleged pro- static phlebitis. These complications belong in the majority of cases to the latter part of the stationary period of gonorrhoea, which extends over from one to two 1 The points of similarity between the two conditions are very marked : “In both there is a cessation or alteration in the character of the urethral discharge ; in both there is a feeling of weight and uneasiness about the perineum ; in both there is some difficulty in micturition, per- haps amounting to retention ; and in both there is some tumefaction to be felt, and much distress is occasioned on introducing the finger into the rectum. So painful is the latter to the patient that it often leads to an imperfect examination being made, and hence an error of diagnosis arises in exactly fixing the position of the tumefaction, which might have been avoided.” (Medical Times and Gazette, July 2, 1881.)