444 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. chancroids, care should be taken to include all portions of diseased tissue. The subsequent dressings should be detergent and stimulating, and the best articles are the nitric and carbolic lotions. These should be applied upon the absorbent cotton, well packed into all portions of the wound until it assumes a perfectly healthy appearance, when they may be discontinued in favor of a dry dressing, usually of iodoform. Phimosis.—In phimosis, the attempt should be made to relieve the swelling and oedema of the prepuce by frequent and continuous, hot, local baths, carried to the point of producing slight faintness. Associated with these, sub-prepu- tial injections of the nitric or carbolic lotions should be made, conjoined with strict attention to cleanliness; as soon as the oedema subsides and retraction of the foreskin is possible, the concealed sore should be treated in the manner already advised. It is better surgery in such cases not to attempt to relieve the phimosis by incision, unless gangrene threatens to supervene, as the cut edges of the wound almost invariably become inoculated, and a large and troublesome sore results. If, however, it becomes necessary to operate, the incision had better be made double instead of single, by making one at each side of the foreskin, instead of the time-honored single cut along the dorsum of the penis. The double incision admits an easier and more, thorough exposure of the glans penis and fossa glandis, and a more perfect application of the necessary remedies. The concealed chancroids, as well as the edges of the wounds, should then be cauterized in the manner and with the means already detailed. Paraphimosis is usually a less serious accident than the complication we have just been considering, although even here the constriction may be so great as to produce gangrene of the glans penis. If this threatens, it must, of course, be relieved by a timely division of the constricting portion of the prepuce; under other circumstances, the same rule as regards incisions must be observed here as in phimosis. Antiphlogistic treatment by hot-water local baths, leeches to the abdominal rings, multiple punctures of the oede- matous prepuce, and the ice-pack, are the remedies which hold out the best and most speedy means of relief; destruction of the chancroids must be always carried out as quickly as possible. Balanitis.—In balanitis the principal danger arises from the auto-inocula- tion of the abraded points, and hence these should be cauterized and treated in the same manner as though they were already chancroids. Concealed Chancroids (Chancres larves, of the French), if seated just with- in the meatus, can generally be treated by cauterization and the dressings already advised, without any great difficulty. If seated further within the canal, the applications must be made through a speculum, for which purpose there is nothing better than a Gruber’s ear-speculum. As a matter of fact, I do not believe that these ulcers are ever seated further than one inch with- in the canal, and the celebrated case of Picord, described in his “ Clinique Iconographique,” is open to question as regards diagnosis. In many respects it looks as thoue-h it had been a case of tuberculosis, and not of chancroid. Phagedena.—The most serious of all complications to treat is phagedsena, and the main point to be remembered is, that it is due much more to some constitutional defect than to any local property of the chancroid; hence a twofold method must be adopted, namely, local destruction of the ulceration, and an internal treatment to alter the underlying diathesis. The only cautery