625 DISEASES OF THE NAILS. blade of which is thrust beneath the nail, which is thus divided by a single stroke. The offending portion is then removed by avulsion.] If the hyper- trophy is marked, or if both edges of the nail are inflamed, the opposite margin should be removed at the same time. The inflammation then rapidly subsides, the wound heals by rest, and nearly the whole nail is left to protect the toe. A painless method of cure which, though slow, is generally successful, is thus described by Kaposi: A little bundle of charpie, Avith parallel threads somewhat longer than the nail, is cut and laid upon its upper surface, parallel to the lateral fold. By means of a flat probe the mass is now pushed down, thread after thread, between the swollen and inflamed fold and the edge of the nail. In this way the one is separated from the other, since the bundle of lint rests between them, and the painful pressure is thus relieved. The nail furrow is further bedded all about with additional lint, and then a very narrow strip of sticking plaster is wound about the toe from above downwards, in relation to the inflamed fold, so that this is kept drawn away still further from the edge of the nail. With such a dressing, which when properly ap- plied is not at all painful, the patient can put on his ordinary foot covering and go about with ease. After twenty-four hours, the plaster is carefully taken off, and, after a warm foot-bath, the pledgets of lint are removed. Even after this short interval of a day, it will be noticed that the swelling of the fold is considerably less, and that it is by no means as painful as before, and that already a gaping space has formed between it and the edge of the nail. The dressing is then to be renewed, as on the preceding day. The application of the lint is now still less diflicult and painful, as the furrow has become more capacious. In this way, by the repetition of the process, the inflammation, swelling, suppuration, etc., will wholly disappear within the space of from two to four weeks. Exuberant granulations, or those which bleed easily, must often be cut oft' and cauterized, after which they undergo involution and heal. The result is equally favorable whether the paronychia arises as a consequence of a primary inflammation of the fold of the nail, whereby the latter is relatively too broad, or secondarily, as a result of pri- mary hypertrophy of the nail. In the latter case, the lateral margin of the nail must be cut away from before backwards, which may be done with scarcely any pain, if the fold of the nail has been drawn far enough away from its edge by the process described. [The term Paronychia is commonly applied by surgical writers to the affec- tion otherwise known as panaris, or whitlow, and the name Onychia given to ulceration of the matrix. A distinction should be made, too, between the simple “ ingrowing nail”—which results from mechanical causes, such as hy- pertrophy of the nail, or the pressure of a narrow shoe—and the form of ulceration which depends upon disease of the matrix itself, and which is perhaps more often met with in the hand than in the foot; the latter is the true onychia, or onychia maligna, or, when it occurs in the great toe, the “ toe- nail ulcer” of the older writers. It usually occurs in persons depressed in health, and is immediately caused hy injury; some of the worst cases which I have seen have resulted from the explosion of fire-crackers. The treatment adapted for “ ingrowing nail,” whether by packing with lint or cotton, or by excising a segment of the nail, will not commonly prove successful in these cases; a better plan is, after avulsion of the nail, to cauterize the matrix thoroughly with the solid stick of nitrate of silver, or, which is, I think, upon the whole, preferable, to cut the nail short and then apply the powdered nitrate of lead, in the manner recommended by Moerloose, Vanzetti, and Mac Cormac.] vol. ii.—40