31 TREATMENT TO HELP QUICK OR PRIMARY UNION. Material for Sutures.-—-With respect to the material used for sutures—silk, wire, silkworm gut, prepared catgut, or horsehair—each is good in certain cases when rightly selected. Where there is little tension on the sutures, silk or wire may be indifferently employed, the amount of irritation excited by one or the other material depending more upon this point of tension, than on any other. I have long ago proved this to my own satisfaction, by testing both forms in the same subject, through a long series of cases. In plastic operations, silkworm gut, well softened in water before use, is to be recom- mended ; it holds well, and seems to irritate far less than any other material. In cases of ruptured perineum, and in operations for vaginal fistula and fissured palate, it should always be used. In the latter class of cases, when the soft palate albne is involved, horsehair is good, but it is not strong enough to resist much tension. In plastic operations in which some skill may be called for in adjusting the parts, wire sutures may be selected, since such sutures can be twisted and untwisted with facility, and the surgeon can con- sequently readjust the margins of the wound, as required, to his satisfaction. Catgut is not a reliable material for sutures, since it is uncertain as to its retaining power, and is apt, when sodden, to yield; it is, however, useful as a suture in holding parts together for a brief period, where there is no tension, and where there may be a difficulty in removing the stitches subse- quently. In operations on the penis, it is of special value. Pressure.—The effectual carrying-out of the third indication in the treat- ment of incised wounds, viz., the coaptation of the two divided surfaces of the wound—deep parts as well as edges—is not however always to be accom- plished by means of sutures and strapping, however well selected and applied these may be. Other means are constantly demanded, and of these, well directed pressure is the most important ; indeed, the value of pressure in the treatment of all wounds is worthy of more consideration than it has received. By it the surfaces of divided parts are kept together, and particularly the deeper surfaces; mobility of the injured tissues is checked, if not prevented; the vessels of the wounded parts are supported; and the evil influence of blood stasis with its effect—effusion—is neutralized: under these circum- stances repair is helped, and nature’s processes are permitted to go on under more favorable conditions. With this view of the value of pressure, well- applied pads of lint, absorbent cotton-wool, gauze, or sponge saturated or not with some antiseptic drug, should be carefully adjusted over the flaps of all wounds, when such exist, and over the surfaces of others. These pads are kept in position by means of strapping or bandages, aided by splints when the extremities are involved. After the removal of a breast or tumor, the value of a well-adjusted pad, and more particularly of a sponge wrung out of iodine lotion or carbolized water, cannot be too highly praised. After an amputation, the use of a splint, adjusted to the stump, and pressure well applied to the bases of the flaps, not to their edges, should never be omitted. Immobility.—The maintenance of wounded parts in a position of immo- bility, beneficial to the natural process of repair as well as comfortable to the patient, is the fourth great indication in the treatment of incised wounds ; and to say the least, this is as important as the preceding, since, if neglected, the benefit that might be expected from efficiently meeting the third indica- tion could not be realized, and the process of repair in the wounded part would of necessity be checked, if not altogether prevented. To carry out this indication, immobility of the wounded part is of the first importance, and its position next: the position being always selected with the object of giving ease to the patient, and of preventing pain; of relaxing