456 SYPHILIS. Syphilis in Animals.—Although the chancroidal virus has been success- fully inoculated upon animals, yet syphilis has never yet been produced in any of the brute creation, though very numerous efforts have been made to attain success in such inoculations, and though a variety of animals have been made the subjects of experiment. Thus, inoculations have been practised upon the monkey, dog, cat, horse, mule, sheep, rabbit, rat, Guinea-pig, and heifer, but invariably without result.1 There is, however, room for further investigation in this direction. Reinfection in Syphilis.—Syphilis commonly occurs but once in the same person. The immunity conferred by one attack is just as great as in the case of the various other contagious and constitutional diseases—smallpox, scarlet fever, etc. Most of the numerous cases of syphilitic reinfection reported have been cases where lesions have relapsed after a certain interval, or where the observations were so imperfect as to throw much doubt upon their accu- racy. In most instances a recent attack of syphilis may be recognized— (1) By the induration of the preceding chancre and neighboring lymphatic ganglia. (2) By the time elapsing between the appearance of the suspicious ulcer and that of the general symptoms, the interval, when the latter are dependent upon the same infection as the former, and in the absence of treat- ment, being very uniformly about six weeks, and rarely exceeding three months. (3) By the character of the lesions, whether belonging to an early or late stage of syphilis. In the absence of these signs we may ascribe the lesions to an old infection. Before we can admit a second attack of syphilis, we must have an undisputed history of the first infection; we must have proof beyond doubt of a second chancre, which is followed by well-marked enlargement of the inguinal ganglia, and at a later period by secondary mani- festations of an undoubtedly syphilitic nature. Without this succession of lesions similar to those of the first attack, we cannot admit the claims of any case of syphilitic reinfection.2 A very considerable proportion of the reported cases of so-called syphilitic reinfection are nothing more than relapsing lesions of the original attack.3 The Evolution of Syphilis.—Writers upon syphilis usually classify the manifestations of the disease under the heads “Primary,” “Secondary,” and “ Tertiary.” This is,however, as regards the last two divisions, an arbitrary dis- tribution, and one not always according to nature. For the “tertiary ” lesions do not invariably appear in their due time, but may show themselves in the “secondary” period, without regard to preconceived ideas of their proper sequence, and without following the precedence commonly assigned to them. For this reason I prefer to classify the various stages in the evolution of syphilis as follows: (1) Period of the initial lesion or chancre; (2) Period of generalized lesions. These latter I shall consider according to their anatomical seat, and not generally according to their received chronological development. Hereditary syphilis, as sui generis, must be considered separately. The evolution of the various lesions commonly occupies about the same tion etudiee comme metliode curative et comme moyen prophylactique des Maladies Veneriennes. Paris, 1853) ; and Boeck (Syphilisationen Studeret ved Sygesengen. Christiania, 1854 ; and On Syphilization, Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., vol. i., 1870, p. 1). 1 See Traite theorique et pratique de la Syphilis et des Maladies Veneriennes, p. 85. Par MM. les Docteurs L. Belhomme et Aime Martin. 2me ed. Paris, 1876 ; and Jullien, op. cit., p. 547. 2 Bumstead and Taylor, op. cit., p. 421. 3 See Kobner, Reinfection in Constitutional Syphilis. (Berlin, klin. Wocliens., Nov. 1872. Translated in Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., vol. iv., 1873, p. 128.)