SYPHILIS OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 555 slowing or acceleration of the respiratory movements, cough, dyspnoea, etc., have been mentioned as possible results of cerebral nervous disturbance in syphilis, but I do not know of any accurate observations bearing on this subject. Incoordination of Movement; Ataxy.—A case is recorded by Ganul (op. cit.) where incoordination without muscular weakness occurred in a patient. At the autopsy, an almond-sized gumma was found in the cerebellum. Leven and Neumann have observed vertigo, vomiting, and strabismus in associa- tion with incoordination.1 The question lias been discussed of late years, whether syphilis can give rise to locomotor ataxia. The lesion usually associated with the symptoms of locomotor ataxia, is, as is known, diffuse sclerosis of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, a lesion so different from those usually produced by the influence of syphilis upon the nervous system, as to prejudice the mind against the possibility of syphilis causing this group of symptoms. No pathological evidence of the existence of syphilitic locomotor ataxia has been brought for- ward ; but, on the other hand, the indirect clinical evidence in its favor is of the strongest. The question must for the present be considered sub judice.2 Prognosis and Treatment of Nervous Syphilis.—The gravity of the prognosis of syphilis depends upon the period at which appropriate treatment is instituted, and upon the amount and degree of secondary involvement of the affected tissues. “Against the syphiloma itself,” says Jullien, “we are all powerful; against the secondary resultant lesions we are disarmed.” Taken all in all, however, the prospects of success are discouraging. Not only is it difficult or impossible in many cases to procure any amelioration, but even when an apparent cure has been effected, successive relapses disappoint both the practitioner and his patient. Add to this that in s >me cases the cicatriza- tion of the syphiloma itself brings about permanent injury, and the prospect of success seems gloomy. On the other hand, in successful cases the result is often little less than brilliant. (See Van Buren and Keyes, op. cit.) As to the treatment, iodide of potassium is the best remedy. It should be used freely, often in heroic doses: as much as an ounce three times a day has been given by Broadbent. However, in some cases mercury succeeds when the iodide fails, and these remedies should be tried alternately and together when necessary. Of course the ordinary remedies employed in the various neuro- ses—revulsives, bromides, electricity, hydrotherapy, and hygienic measures —should be used in addition to the more purely specific remedies.3 1 Leven, Tumeur Sypli. du Cervelet. Gaz. des Hop., 1864. 2 See Fournier, De l’Ataxie Locomotrice d’origine Sypliilitique. Paris, 1876 ; A. Reumont, Syphilis and Tabes Dorsalis. Aachen, 1881 ; also Proceedings of the Int. Med. Congress, London, 1881 ; and an editorial in the Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 19, 1881. 3 In addition to the references given in the text, the following monographs and papers on spe- cial subjects connected with syphilitic nervous disease may be referred to. Further information of this kind may also be gained from Jullien and Laneereaux. Hubner, Syphilis of the Brain and Nervous System. Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, Am. ed., vol. xii. Dowse, The Brain and its Diseases ; vol. i., Syphilis of the Brain. London, 1879. Keyes, Syphilis of the Nervous System. N. Y. Med. Jour. Nov. 1870. Jakscli, Syphilitic Paralysis. Prag. med. Wochen., 1864, Bd. xxii. Nos. 3 und 4. Little, Syphilitic Tumor of the Dura Mater. Dublin Quart. Jour., vol. xlvii. 1868, p. 222. Chevalet, Paral. Asc. d’origine Sypliilitique, guerie par les frictions. Bull, de Therap., 1869. Eclieverria, G., Epilepsy. New York, 1870. Tarnowsky, B., Aphasie Syph. Paris, 1870. Gay (of Kasan), Statistics of Cerebral Syphilis. Arch. f. Dermatol, u. Syph., 1870. Moxon, Syphilitic Disease of the Spinal Cord. Dub. Quart. Jour., vol. li. 1870, p. 449. De M6ric, Syphilitic Disease of the Third Nerve with Mydriasis, without Ptosis. British Med. Jour. vol. i. 1870, p. 29, 52. H. Molliere, MySlite Sypliilitique Aigue. Ann. de Derm, et de Syph., t. ii. 1871, p. 311.