165 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HIP. lias been found to result from continuous extension by adhesive straps and weights, the forearm being maintained in a somewhat supinated position. In nearly one-tenth of Guilt’s cases (9.6 per cent., 12 out of 125) amputa- tion was ultimately required; and one-half of those thus operated upon died. The death-rate of all the resections was 16 per cent. (20 out of 125), pyaemia being, as in the cases treated by expectation, the chief cause of mortality. As respects saving of life, removals of the radius and carpal bones have given the best results, all of the eight cases recorded having ended in re- covery ; and removals of the lower ends of the bones of the forearm with the carpal and metacarpal bones have given the worst, two out of the five persons thus operated on having died (40 per cent..). When the wrist-bones in part or whole are taken away, there is, it would seem, a most marked difference in the death-rate according as the ulna is or is not removed, the percentage being in the former case from 20 to 40, varying with the bones removed. Whether or not this has been in the observed cases simply acci- dental, or really consequent upon the removal of the ulna, future experience must determine; it may perhaps be a significant fact that, when only the lower end of the ulna has been exsected, the fatality has been more than twice that of similar operations upon the radius (19.23 per cent-.; 8.1 per cent.). Although, as has been shown, the average mortality of wrist-wounds treated by excision is double that following expectancy, yet, as cases of the latter class are, as a rule, of decidedly less gravity than those of the former, the real question to be settled is which gives the best ultimate result. That of expectation is certainly not satisfactory, as far as the functional value of the saved hand is concerned; anchylosis, deformity, more or less stiffening of the fingefs—such is the condition reported as existing in the great majority of cases; but, on the other hand, the same is true of excision:— “ In sixty-eiglit of the ninety-six patients whose hands were preserved, at least in part, fifty-one had anchylosis at the wrist, five mobility with deformity, and three dangling- joints. Nine, of whom two are still in service, are reported to have had comparatively useful limbs.” (Otis.) Gurlt says that of the 72 American cases which he has tabulated, in only three were the results in “ any way goodand that of the sixteen German patients, but one had a good arm and hand, while in eight cases the parts were but tolerably useful, in six they were bad, and in one worse than useless. As a whole, the results were “ very unfavorable.” It would certainly seem that the proper treatment of wounded wrist-joints, when there is not such complete smashing as to compel immediate amputation, is by expectation—■ that is, by removing fragments, immobilizing the forearm and hand, securing drainage, moderating inflammation, opening abscesses, employing antiseptics, and, as far as possible, preventing stiffening of the fingers—and not by formal exsection, either complete or partial. Gunshot Injuries of the Hip. Of much greater severity than those of the corresponding joints of the upper extremity, are gunshot wounds of the hip, knee, and ankle. Injuries of the hip-joint may be either penetrating or non-penetrating. The overlying soft parts may be simply contused, or the ball in its passage across it may bruise the capsule, or there may be a wound of the femur with splintering up to, but not into, the intra-capsular portion of the neck. In all of these latter conditions, when there is subsequent involvement of the joint itself, synovial inflammation takes place—frequently, but by no means always,