692 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAE. when applied to those of the latter. This practical point, resulting from the differing anatomical relations of bursee, must never be lost sight of in deciding what is proper to be done in any given case. All bursae are closed serous sacs, which are, as I shall next show, developed from the cellular tissue. This latter consists of innumerable decussating fas- ciculi of connective tissue, continuous with the skin, periosteum, aponeuroses, etc. From the interweaving of the fasciculi result minute spaces, in which there normally exists a serous or lymph-like fluid. Large flat nucleo-nucleo- lated cells are seen applied along the fasciculi, which resemble, and are prac- tically identical with, the endothelial cells of all serous membranes. Owing to the mechanical arrangement of the connective-tissue bundles, they move upon one another as do the opposing surfaces of any serous cavity, such as the pleura. These movements are facilitated by the presence of the serous fluid before adverted to. All that is now necessary for the formation of either a normal or abnormal bursa, is a local accumulation of the normally present fluid, which, by pressing aside the connective-tissue bundles, will condense them into a wall lined by a more or less imperfect layer of connective tissue, that is, endothelial cells. Such cavities will be traversed—as bursse fre- quently are—by imperfect partitions, or perhaps merely isolated bundles of fibrous tissue. If, as pointed out by Cornil and Ranvier, the site of a hypodermic injection of serum be examined, precisely what I have just described will be seen, neither macroscopically nor microscopically different in any important detail from the appearance presented by a normal bursa. If it be asked what produces the primary accumulation of fluid, I answer, the normal movement of pressure and friction to which the parts are sub- jected. These produce a local congestion, resulting in the effusion of fluid; the congestion recurring, prevents its absorption; and it finally becomes per- manent, and also changed in character. The continued traction on the imper- fect partitions and bridles which traverse the cavity, results in their nutritive elongation or rupture, thus either permitting free communication between the different loculi, or throwing a number into one. Whether of intra- uterine—for some appear by the end of the third month—or of extra-uterine origin, I believe that the mechanism is the same for all varieties of bursae. When it is borne in mind that the normal interfascicular spaces of the con- nective tissue are in direct communication with the lymphatic vessels, it is clear that a bursa is nothing but a constant, larger lymph space. As a bursa is, then, an integral part of the connective tissue, there is no warrant that inflammation of one of these sacs will remain localized. On the contrary, a traumatic inflammation of the bursa, over the olecranon, for instance, not uncommonly results in an extensive cellulitis of the arm and forearm. On the other hand, a primary affection of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue may excite inflammation in a contiguous bursa. This lymphatic con- nection—the bursae being, indeed, as has been seen, a part of the lymphatic system—readily accounts for the marked constitutional disturbance seen in acute inflammation of certain of the larger of these structures. To compare small things with great, the condition is similar to that seen in peritonitis, where, the peritoneal sac being practically nothing but an enormous lymph space, septic products are rapidly absorbed, and, by their sudden introduction into the blood-current, produce the well-known, profound constitutional im- pression observed in that disease. These pathological facts should be kept constantly in mind, as they have an important bearing on treatment. The surgeon must also never forget that bursse which are contiguous to joints, but do not communicate with them in the young, often do so in the adult.