78 THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. the way shown in Fig. 221, is introduced at some distance from the edge of the skin, carried through the wound, and brought out at a similar distance from the edge on the other side, where it is secured by a second button. Two or three pairs of these '■'■button stitches ” are inserted; these hear the strain, leaving the edges of the wound to be easily united by suitable stitches. In some cases, there is still a little difficulty in bringing the parts together, in which contingency thick silver wire stitches are inserted at intervals, taking a deep and broad hold of the tissues, and being termed “ stitches of relaxation and then the margins of the skin in the intervals between these are brought into exact apposition by stitches of carbolized silk, horsehair, or catgut. These latter stitches receive the name of “ stitches of coaptation.'’'’ (Fig. 222.) In this way union by first intention may be got in cases where, at first sight, it seemed impossible, even by the most violent traction, to get the edges of the skin into apposition. The carbolized silk, which is used for stitches, is prepared by dipping ordinary ligature silk into a melted mixture consisting of nine parts of beeswax and one part of carbolic acid. The ligature is wound on pieces of lead, and kept in stoppered bottles. Having now completed the operation, the surgeon proceeds to apply the dressing. A piece of protective, of suitable size, is laid over the wound, and this is overlapped in all directions by a mass of gauze wet in carbolic lotion. This arrangement goes by the name of the “deep dressing.” In wounds close to the pubis, or the mouth, or, indeed, in any situation where there is but little room for the overlapping of the gauze dressing, it is well not to use the protective, because it prevents the carbolic acid in the gauze from reaching the discharge beneath it, and, therefore, if the gauze only extends a little beyond it, the discharge may not receive enough of the antiseptic to prevent it from putrefying. In any case, only as much protective as is necessary to protect the healing margin should be employed, and great care must be taken that it nowhere reaches to a point beyond the edge of the dressing, as the protective is only meant to protect the cut edges, and thus permit healing to occur; it is not used in cases of abscess, where there is only a drainage tube and no cut edge. All hollows are filled up with loose gauze, and special masses of gauze are applied where most discharge is expected, and then the general gauze dressing is fastened on as before described. The dressing is always changed on the day following the operation,, and afterwards the rule is that, if, at the hour of the ordinary visit, discharge is found at the edge of the dressing, it is changed ; if not, it is left till the next day, when the same rule is followed. The dressing is never left longer than a week unchanged. In changing the dressings, the spray is used. After removing the elastic and common bandages—during the time required for which the patient or an assistant places his hand on the dressing, over the wound, to prevent it from being accidentally exposed—the spray is turned on, and the edge of the dressing next the spray is lifted, so that the spray passes in between the dressing and the skin. There is no necessity for wash- ing the wound. A fresh piece of protective and wet gauze are at once applied, and then the skin all around is thoroughly washed with the lotion. Loose gauze and a fresh dressing are then arranged. The rules with regard to the drainage-tubes have been already indicated. The stitches are removed when the line of incision has healed, or sooner, if any of them are causing irritation. In removing the stitches, those of coaptation are first taken away ; then, a day or two later, the stitches of relaxation ; and lastly, when the parts are soundly united, the button-stitches. This, like the manipulation of the drainage-tubes, must be learned by experience. Where dressings are to be left on for several days, it is well to rub a little salicylic acid around the wound. This is most