GONORRHOEA. 364 Ordinary drinking water may be taken in the same way, to the amount of three or four quarts daily, with great advantage, and, whenever it is impos- sible to enforce the milk diet, I make a point of insisting upon its use at this stage; and to meet the same indication—the reduction of the salts con- tained in the urine—it is well to prescribe some alkaline hydragogue diuretic, combining with it an arterial sedative, and an anodyne directed especially to the genital functions. The importance of rendering the urine alkaline in the treatment of gonorrhoea is evident to any one who has carefully tested its reaction under varying conditions, as has been done in a number of cases by myself and others. Almost invariably an in- tense degree of ardor urinae is associated with more or less decided acidity of the urine. Sometimes the alkalies administered do not seem to have the desired effect, and it was some time before I learned that to bring about and relieve alkalinity of the urine, it was necessary to give the alkaline salts after meals, and not during fasting. A series of experiments upon this point were made by Dr. C. H. Ralfe, and recorded in an excellent paper in the Lancet.1 Long previously (in 1850), Dr. Bence Jones had shown that large doses of sesquicarbonate of ammonium actually increased the acidity of the urine. In 1854, Dr. AV. F. Beneke made a similar observation as to bicar- bonate of sodium, and in 1860, Professor Parkes recorded a like experience with bicarbonate of potassium. Dr. Ralfe, after carefully detailing his experiments, sum- marizes his results as follows:— “ The effect, therefore, of bicarbonate of potassium, taken after food, on the acidity of the urine, is different from that when it is administered before meals. For when taken on an empty stomach, we have seen that the acidity on the day of administration was only slightly depressed, whilst on the day following the acidity was considerably higher than it was the day before the salt was taken. But when it was administered during the process of digestion, the acidity of the urine entirely disappeared, being on two occasions neutral, and on one alkaline, whilst on the succeeding days there was no marked increase in the acidity of the urine as compared with that of the days preced- ing the experiment. And the same difference is observable in the hourly variations of the urine, for when the bicarbonate was taken before meals, the effect of the alkali passed off at the end of two hours, and the amount of acid passed in the succeeding three hours was nearly equal to what was passed on the day no medicine was taken ; whilst when the salt was taken after meals, the urine remained alkaline up to the end of four hours after the dose wras taken, and no recovery of acidity was noticeable.” The explanation of these facts is found in the circumstance that the bicarbonates are really acid salts, and, if decomposed in the urine, result in the formation of neutral carbonates and acid phosphate of sodium. In the intervals of digestion, the reaction of the gastric mucous membrane being neutral or alkaline, they pass unchanged into the blood, and produce the above results. On the other hand, when these salts are taken during digestion, the acid contents of the stomach decompose them; carbonic acid is liberated, which escapes by the mouth, whilst the alkaline bases pass into the circula- tion and render the urine alkaline. Of course there are many ways in which these ends may be attained, but the following recipes may be given as samples of mixtures which consider- able experience enables me to endorse:— R Tinct. aconiti rad. gtt. xvj. Potassii bromid. 9viij. Potassii acetat. §ss. Infus. pareirm brav. fjviij. M. Sig Tablespoonful in water every two hours. R Tinct. veratri viridis, gtt. viij. Potassii bromidi, Sodii bicarbonat. aa 9viij. Liq. potass, citrat. f^viij. M. Sig Tablespoonful in water every two hours. 1 Lancet, Nov. 9, 1878.