355 STRICTURES OF LARGE CALIBRE. tion between the pathological changes and the observed indications is about as has been stated. The differences of opinion which now exist are chiefly as to the amount of urethral contraction which is sufficient to produce noticeable effects, and here the argument must rest upon clinical observation supported by the results of autopsies. I have now under occasional treatment a curious case showing the effect on the genito-urinary tract and its functions, of a seemingly insignificant encroachment upon the urethra. A gentleman thirty-five years of age, and of unusual physical vigor, has had at intervals of some months several recurrent urethral polypi, sessile, not rising above the surface of the urethra more than a line at the most, perfectly soft, almost gelatiniform, just within the fossa navicularis, and themselves entirely insensitive. These I have now on four occasions during the last three years snipped off, touching the bleeding point afterwards with a drop of nitric acid, after which there has been a period of freedom from annoyance, followed by a return of the polypi, which have been pro- nounced by Dr. Formad to be typical soft papillomata. The peculiar feature of the case is that, immediately upon their re-growth, my patient experiences certain well- marked symptoms, by which he is always able without inspection to recognize their presence. He has a slight tingling on urination, sometimes a little burning, vesical irritability, and, most marked of all, unnatural sexual excitability—erection and emis- sion on the slightest provocation, premature ejaculation on attempts at intercourse, etc. —all these phenomena disappearing in each instance within a week after the removal of the minute growth. I was at first skeptical as to the association of the conditions, and was inclined to think it imaginary, but the repeated occurrence of the symptoms and their unvarying relief by the operation have convinced me of the contrary. I have seen and reported1 a case in which, as shown at the autopsy, a stricture of the calibre of 24 mm. had produced congestion and ulceration of the urethra, dilata- tion and hypertrophy of the bladder, and dilatation of the ureters ; this stricture had been recognized during life. Death resulted from an intercurrent disease. Recently, after consultation with Dr. Agnew, and with his approval, I performed internal urethrotomy for the relief of annoying symptoms due to a stricture which would readily allow the passage of a No. 32 steel sound, but which re-contracted with rapidity, after dilatation. The operation was followed by immediate, though only temporary, relief. I have at present under treatment a gentleman who, for three years past, has been continuously affected with albuminuria, which has caused him great anxiety, and has in some respects modified his entire life. He had been under the care of several practitioners in Philadelphia and New York, all of whom seem to have attributed his condition to congestion of the kidneys. His urethra had never been examined. A No. 26 bulbous bougie revealed the existence of two very slight strictures, through which the instrument passed readily, one at 3^ inches, the other at 5 inches from the meatus. At the time of his first visit to me (April 24, 1882), this patient’s urine contained from one-twelfth to one-tenth its bulk of albumen, a small quantity of pus, and a num- ber of casts, either mucous or granular. At that time the diagnosis of both myself and Dr. Formad, who has examined for me a number of specimens of urine in this case, was that the condition was probably one of interstitial nephritis. I proceeded to dilate this patient’s urethra gently, and in two weeks all trace of albumen had disappeared, as had also the pus cells and casts, and they have not since recurred, as shown by examinations of the urine repeated at intervals of a few days. The patient himself, who has been in the habit of using the tests by boiling and by nitric acid, says that it is the first time for three years that the albumen has been absent. No other treatment has been em- ployed. These cases bear directly upon the question of the significance of slight ure- thral coarctations, and are worth recording, although, after a somewhat large experience with this class of ailments, I believe them to be very exceptional. That every urethral coarctation following on urethritis must at some time * have been a stricture of large calibre, is self-evident, but just when such a stricture becomes an active pathological factor, and is able in the manner indicated to give rise to symptoms, is an unsettled point. Indeed, it is not 1 Philadelphia Medical Times, May 26, 1877.