THE SYPHILODERMATA. 489 papules, scales, vesico-pustul'es, pustules, crusts, etc., all associated together.1 It is quite different with non-syphilitic skin eruptions, which are usually found possessing a tolerably uniform character throughout. Thus in the eruptive fevers, the type of the eruption prevails over all the affected parts; in erythema simplex, the eruption is erythematous; in purpura, macular; in herpes, vesicular, etc. These points are often of great diagnostic value, but it must he remembered that there are numerous exceptions to the rule, both in syphilitic and in non-syphilitic eruptions, so that this symptom is not to be invariably depended upon. The peculiar color of syphilitic eruptions has at all periods arrested the at- tention of observers. It is a very striking color, varying in tint according to the subject, the stage of the disease, and the locality. In some cases it is brownish-red—precisely the shade of lean ham; in other instances it is a brighter, slightly yellowish shade of red, resembling the color of a freshly cut surface of copper. The former color is more apt to be observed in lesions of the lower extremities, while the coppery hue is peculiarly characteristic of some forms of tubercular syphiloderm occurring about the face. Though sometimes of service in aiding in the diagnosis of a doubtful case, too much stress must not be laid upon the diagnostic value of color, since the syphilo- dermata do not always present it, while it is occasionally found in non-syphi- litic skin diseases. The peculiar, rounded, or circulate form or arrangement of the syphilitic skin lesion or group of lesions is, when present, of importance from a diag- nostic point of view. The syphilitic lesion itself is almost invariably rounded in form, and, when grouped, the various lesions are very apt to assume a dia- dem-like arrangement, or that of a crescent, or of the arc of a circle of greater or less extent. Like the polymorphism and the color of the syphilodermata, this characteristic is not invariably to be depended upon, but is often a valu- able aid to diagnosis in obscure cases. The apyretic, indolent, apruriginous nature of the syphilitic eruptions is a very marked feature in their character. This alone differentiates them from the entire class of acute and febrile exanthemata, and particularly from the eruptive fevers, in which, as is known, the skin lesions make their appearance and are developed with the accompaniment of fever, together with inflamma- tory symptoms, and run a transitory career. It is true that some of the syphilodermata, and notably the early general eruptions, are occasionally ac- companied in their early development by more or less fever. This, however, is not only uncommon, but, when the febrile movement does occur in connec- tion with the outbreak upon the skin, the temperature does not rise to a high degree, and it very often quickly falls again. Fournier cites a curious case occurring under the care of a distinguished colleague, where a patient was admitted to hospital with high fever, together with other symp- toms which caused the diagnosis of typhoid fever to be reached. Forty-eight hours after- wards, numerous small rose-colored, slightly raised papules made their appearance over the whole body, when the diagnosis was changed to smallpox. But instead of becom- ing transformed into vesicles and pustules, these papules simply continued to grow in size and to alter gradually in appearance, until, at length, it came to be seen that be- yond a doubt the affection was syphilitic. The fever meanwhile had disappeared. Once fully developed, the syphilodermata run their course absolutely without any accompanying fever or inflammatory symptoms of any sort,.2 They are also quite indolent and sluggish in their course, the lesions remain- 1 This does not refer to the late syphilodermata, which usually preserve a single type only. 1 Excepting the occasional development of erysipelas, which I have not infrequently observed in connection with the development of gurnmata.