491 ERYTHEMATOUS SYPHILODERM. In the following pages the various syphilitic affections of the skin will he treated of under the headings above given. It was formerly the custom to regard certain classes of the syphilodermata as belonging to “secondary syphilis,” while others were considered as “tertiary” manifestations. But as in practice it is often found that the different eruptions appear at an earlier or later date than that assigned to them, thus confusing the mind regarding the stage of the disease in any given case, I have preferred to adhere simply to the pathological classification, indicating under the various classes of syphilodermata the date at which each commonly makes its appearance. Erythematous Syphiloderm. The erythematous syphiloderm is the earliest and one of the commonest skin manifestations of syphilis. Although so common that few patients escape it, yet it is so entirely without subjective symptoms, and so apt to be confined to those parts of the body which are covered with the clothing, that it very frequently comes and goes unnoticed. In the lower classes and in hospital practice it is indeed so seldom noticed, that, were not the opposite fact well confirmed by other observations, it would seem to be one of the rarest skin affections in syphilis. The erythematous syphiloderm commonly makes its appearance as the initiatory lesion of generalized syphilis, about the sixth or eighth week after the appearance of the chancre (on an average on the forty-fifth day). Occa- sionally, however, it may appear at a much later date, even toward the end of the first or the beginning of the second year, when its advent has been hindered by mercurial treatment. Under these circumstances the eruption displays somewhat different features from those presented when it appears at what may be called its normal period. The erythematous syphiloderm presents itself in the form of diffuse macules or colored patches,of from pin-head to small-coin size, irregularly rounded,oval, or of various shapes.1 Sometimes a number of lesions coalesce to form a large patch. At first the lesions are of a pale rose-color, afterwards the color deepens, and, as the eruption begins to pigment and pass away, it assumes a yellowish- brown tint, and then a brownish color. The maculae at first disappear under pressure, but when pigmentation occurs they are persistent. As has been said, the eruption gives rise .to no subjective sensations. The distribution of the erythematous syphiloderm is irregular. It is less apt than any of the other syphilitic skin lesions to assume a circinate form. The regions of the body usually attacked by it are the flanks and lateral portions of the thorax, the abdomen, chest, and back. The eruption is also frequently observed upon the flexor surfaces of the limbs. It is rarely observed upon the face, excepting over the forehead at the edge of the scalp, and only very excep- tionally upon the hands. Fournier3 describes two special varieties of erythematous syphiloderm, one urticaria- like, and the other circinate. The latter is one of the later syphilitic skin manifesta- tions, appearing toward the end of the first year or in the course of the second or third year. It may even occur at a still later stage when a course of mercurial treatment has been pursued. The circinate form is a very marked feature; circles or parts of circles, figures-of-8, etc., are often observed. Sometimes the circles are of quite a large diam- eter, even two or three inches. Usually they are from half an inch to an inch in diam- eter. This variety, if left without treatment, may last a long time. Mercury quickly cures it, but the disease is apt to recur. The circinate form of the erythematous syphil- 1 See Duhring’s Atlas of Skin Diseases, PI. i. 2 Op. cit., 2e ed. p. 277.