104 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. 6 Unpublished Notes of Cases in the Office of the Surgeon-General, U. S. Army. wooden shaft, but other heads had thimble-shaped sockets, into which the wooden shaft was driven. Some of these last described -were composed of several parts, one arrow head being nested over another, frequently to the number of five. Pare’s forceps for extracting these arrow heads was shaped like a glove-stretcher. Its beak entered the socket, and, on pressing the handles together, made sufficient outward pressure to hold the foreign body during its extraction.1 Grose2 says that the English arrow was from twenty- seven to forty inches long, that its range was from 120 to 360 yards, and that English archers could easily shoot through an inch plank. Archers consti- tuted a part of the English army as late as the time of the Great Rebellion, and several important battles were decided by the bow and arrow, the battle of Hastings being the most important of all; nor is it impossible that the bow and arrow may again become a military weapon, and a very formidable one, in the hands of cavalry.3 Arrow of the North American Indian.—The arrow of the North American Indian usually consists of three parts: a head, a shaft, and a band that binds head and shaft together. The head is made of bone, of iron, of one of the silicious minerals, or even of glass. The stone or glass arrow head is made by trimming a fragment of agate, flint, obsidian, or bottle glass, into a cuneiform shape. This is done by holding the fragment in the left hand, and breaking off its edges, bit by bit, by means of a bone having a shallow groove cut around one of its ends. The edge of the glass is caught in this groove, and the thumb is used as a fulcrum.4 These arrow heads have no neck; they are about an inch long, and a third of an inch wide. They are fastened by gum into a notch, which is cut in a rod of wood eight inches long, and this again is fastened by gum into a reed thirty inches long; but so frail is the connection between head and shaft, that the Indian is obliged to take extraordinary care that they do not become separated in the quiver.5 These heads are of course brittle, and if they strike a bone, they are sure to break. Mr. V., a paymaster and clerk, was thus wounded in the arm by an Apache arrow. The glass head struck the humerus, and broke into many fragments, which were a long time in coming away.6 The metallic head is usually made from soft hoop-iron, by aid of a sandstone hone. This head is from half an inch to an inch broad, and from one to three inches long, and of the well-known shape; its edges are dull-sharp, like those of an oyster knife, and it has at its base a small quadrangular stem or neck for attachment to the shaft. Usually it is not barbed. The shaft of the arrow' is made from the sapling of the willow or dogwood tree. A bundle of these saplings is thrown into a warm pool, and soaked until the bark can be easily peeled off". Each sapling is then straightened in this way : Pieces of wood are first firmly lashed to the ends of the sap- lings, crosswise; one of these crosspieces is held between the feet, and the other is held in the hand ; a to-and-fro, semi-rotary motion, as in trephining, is given to the crosspiece in the hand. Thus the fibres of the stick become 1 (Euvres completes d’Ambroise Pare, ed. par J. F. Malgaigne, tome ii. p. 183. Consult also Daniel, Ilistorie de la Milice Franqaise, tome i. p. 303. Amsterdam, 1724. 3 Military Antiquities respecting a History of the English Army, etc., p. 268, 1801. 3 On the shapes and sizes of the arrows of the Middle Ages, consult Hewitt, Ancient Armor and Weapons in Europe, etc., vol. i. pp. 23-65, 1865 ; also Matthew Paris, Historia Major, pp. 1090-1091. Paris, 1644. 4 Consult Report of Explorations for a Route for the Pacific Railroad, on the trail of the 41st parallel, North Latitude. Senate Document, 33d Congress, p. 43. 6 Consult Notes on Arrow Wounds, by Elliot Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. Medical and Surgical Reporter, April, 1866.