435 COMPLICATIONS OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. papillae, wherever infiltrated with cells, exhibit numerous enlarged vessels, most of which are bloodvessels. A few, however, are lymphatics. With a higher power (Fig. 328), the cell-infiltrated portion, a b d, consists of a close network of partly narrow, and partly broad bundles of fibres with faint contours, in which is deposited an abundance of nucleated and evenly distributed cells, some of them very large and resembling lymph corpuscles, others smaller. The cells lying near the floor of the ulcer and the neighboring parts are for the most part small and irregular in outline, with scattered nuclei. Free nuclei and nucleoli are also found in large numbers. In the deeper tissues, the cells have generally the appearance of in- flammation-corpuscles, but there are also many smaller ones. Of great interest is the remarkable thickening of the walls of the vessels, e d g, which appear to be embedded in an abundant network of tissue-proliferation, due to adventitious fibrous deposits running parallel to them. In this network, cells with large nuclei are found. The openings of the vessels are everywhere apparent throughout this cell-infiltrated tissue, inasmuch as they are kept dilated by the surrounding oedema. The degeneration of the tissues and of the infiltrated cells takes place only in the upper portion, and to an extent which is only limited by the extent and depth of the infiltration. Interstitial abscesses do not exist. We have not found any characteristics which would enable us to distinguish the cell-infiltration of the corium and the papillae, or the subsequent de- generation of the same, from similar processes of simple origin. Complications of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. The complications which occur with this variety of ulcer are numerous, and the acuter the inflammation the more likely are they to occur. Bubo.—That most frequently met with is the bubo, and this is of two kinds, the “ simple,” which is sympathetic in nature, and is really nothing but a glandular or peri-glandular abscess, which-secretes healthy pus and heals up rapidly as soon as its contents are evacuated; the other the “ virulent,” which is always serious, depending upon the absorption of the chancroidal matter by the lymphatics, and its arrest and retention in the nearest chain of glands, there to produce an inflammatory and contagious ulceration of the gland similar to that which gave rise to the bubo. As showing the relative frequency with which various complications occur in cases of simple venereal ulcer, I refer the reader to the annexed table, in which will be found the figures bearing upon this subject. In 200 cases Frequency of Complications in Simple Venereal Ulcers. Table XXL (Sturgis, Records of N. Y. Dispensary for the last four months of 1879, Division F.) Patients with chancroids recorded ......... 200 “ without complications ......... 135 “ with “ ......... 65 buboes (non-suppurating) ....... 22 phimosis .......... 21 gonorrhoea .......... 17 balano-posthitis ......... 5 taken from the records of the Hew York Dispensary for the last four months of 1879, it will be seen that complications occurred in 65, or in about one- third of the cases, and that of these 65 patients who presented complications, 22, or nearly one-third, suffered from buboes, while phimosis, gonorrhoea, and balano-posthitis made up the remaining two-thirds. The bubo then we may accept as the most frequent complication found with chancroids, and the next question for consideration is whether buboes are usually mono-lateral or