561 SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. they may occur in any part of the body. About the face they often tend to group, and to form crusted patches resembling at first sight the lesions of con- tagious impetigo, or of impetiginous eczema. From the latter, however, they are to he distinguished by not itching, by the thickness and greenish-brown color of the crusts, those of impetiginous eczema and impetigo being thinner and lighter yellowish-brown, like honey. The eroded surface underneath the crusts tends in eczema to heal over, and always without a scar, whereas the syphilitic erosion is more inclined to be ulcerative. The base of the lesions in syphilis is thickened, and they are surrounded by a violaceous red areola. Syphilitic acneiform lesions are sometimes met with on the scalp, in infants, while ecthymatiform pustules are encountered about the limbs in severe cases. These last are apt to result in loss of tissue. TheFarunculoid Syphiloderm.—Bumstead and Taylor describe a furuncle-like eruption which may occur as early as the sixth month, or as late as the third year of hereditary syphilis. The lesions may occur alone, constituting the only symptom of the disease, or they may be accompanied by other eruptions. Their number varies greatly in different cases. They begin as small nodules in the corium, and gradually increase to the size of half a nutmeg, ulcers form on the summit, sloughs are thrown off, and irregular, unhealthy cavities with scanty effusive secretion are left, the lesions subsequently running a chronic course. They often result in cicatrices. The tubercular syphiloderm is a rather rare manifestation of hereditary syphilis. It may occur as early as the sixth month, or as a recurrent affec- tion at two or three years. The tubercles begin as deeply seated papules or nodules; the skin is involved afterwards, and finally ulcers of greater or less size result, with abundant secretion, and often covered with crusts. Occa- sionally vegetations may spring up from the surface of the ulcer as in the following case reported by me several years ago.1 An infant of eight months with a well made out syphilitic history showed progressive emaciation, snuffles, and an eruption, situated chiefly upon the face, though observable elsewhere. The lesions when recent consisted of discrete, indolent, tubercular eleva- tions, of pin-head to pea size, roundish, well-defined, firm, and elevated. Older lesions were seen to have coalesced into elevated coin-sized patches, with here and there pus- tular points, coalescing in places into ulcerated patches covered with brownish lami- nated crusts. One of these, larger than the others and situated on the cheek, showed a rough, uneven, warty, mammillated surface, covered with a crust. On poulticing this, a shining red surface, covered with vegetations, could be observed. The abundant secretion was horribly fetid. The eruption closely resembled a patch of impetiginous eczema, but the infiltration of the skin, the mammillated surface, the abundance and fetid character of the discharge, and the thick, opaque, brownish crusts, served to make the diagnosis plain even without considering the characteristic lesions elsewhere. The tubercular syphiloderm is to be differentiated from the scrofulodermata of the skin sometimes found in infants and young children. The lesions resemble one another closely, and a careful investigation of the history of the case, with a close examination of the lesions in the light of the description given under the head of syphilodermata in adults, will be required to make the diagnosis. Gummata of the skin are not very unusual among children affected with hereditary syphilis. They are usually among the later lesions to show themselves, and sometimes a single lesion alone exists to mark the presence of the disease. They resemble in all respects the gummata found in adults. Bullar Eruptions.—The bullar eruptions of new-born children (“pemphigus 1 A case of Vegetating Tubercular Syphiloderm in an Infant. Archives of Dermatology, vol. iii. 1877, p. 211. VOL. II.—36