WOUNDS. 46 drainage ; but, on the other hand, it takes little care to guard against mobility of the wounded part, and disregards antiseptic applications and precautions. This neglect is, however, probably due to the justifiable impression that if drain- age be provided for, there will be in the deeper parts no retained dead tissue or fluids to decompose or undergo chemical change, and that a free current of air upon the surface of the wound is the best guarantee against septic changes of its fluids. Indeed, Professor Humphry clearly indicated this when he de- scribed how large open wounds, by this system, healed by scabbing more quickly than when the part was covered and kept moist. Some of the advo- cates of this system believe the open treatment to be more adapted to wounds in which union by secondary adhesion is to be expected, since they assert that, if an open wound be maintained in a condition of perfect freedom from all irritating causes, such as foreign bodies, dirt, and decomposing elements, granulations will form, and that suppuration is not an essential part of their formation. For my own part, after a careful review of the whole question, I must re- gard the open treatment of wounds as being far superior to any other in which due provision is not made for perfect drainage; but at the same time, I fail to see its advantages over some others, and more particularly over that which I adopt, in which all the advantages of the open system are secured, and in which, in addition, the wounded part is effectually guarded against mobility and external injury, while, at the same time, due provision is made, by means of a light antiseptic dressing, against the possibility of any septic changes taking place on the surface, as well as in the deeper portions of the wound. The recent investigations of Pasteur tend greatly to support the advocacy of this open dressing, since he claims to have proved that germ influence is weakened by contact with the oxygen of the air, and that “it is the oxygen of the air which weakens or extinguishes germ virulence.”1 Treatment of Wounds by Irrigation.—This must be regarded as only a variety in form of the open method, since its essential advantage consists in the cleansing and thorough draining of the wound from all secretions and impurities. It is carried out by means of a can of water or medicated lotion, so placed above the part to be irrigated that the fluid can be conducted by a tube, as a gentle stream, or, what is better, by means of worsted threads, in rapidly falling drops, upon the exposed and wounded part, the limb being fixed upon a splint, with a pan beneath to catch the fluid as it drains away. In gunshot wounds of limbs, and in sloughing or unhealthy stumps, or wounds, this mode of treatment is very satisfactory. It has been employed in Guy’s Hospital for a quarter of a century, and can be recommended. Es- march speaks highly of it in military surgery. Treatment by Water-dressing, with and without Antiseptics in Solu- tion.—In 1825, the late Mr. Syme published a paper2 in which he pointed out the evils of such old methods of dressing wTounds as those of mundify- ing, digesting, incarning, and cicatrizing, and recommended that wounds should be lightly dressed, after their edges had been adjusted and well brought together with stitches. To this surgeon, in connection with Mr. Liston, may be probably attributed the introduction into British surgery ot the use of water-dressing for wounds generally. The practice was very rap- idly taken hold of and adopted, every thoughtful surgeon having recognized the evils that attended the methods in which wounds were smothered with masses 1 Remarks Before the Academie de M^decine, Lancet, Nov. 6, 1880. 2 Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 52, July, 1825.