SYPHILIS OF THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. 517 rebellious cases, of a solution of iodide of potassium, ten grains to the ounce, is attended with the happiest results. Cauterization must be employed in the sclerosed variety with precaution, and not, as is too frequently done, promiscuously. The fissures and raw sur- faces may be cauterized, but not the sclerosed surfaces. The nitrate-of-silver stick is the best application; acid nitrate of mercury and the stronger caustics often aggravate instead of relieving the condition. Cauterization should not be repeated too frequently—once a week is often enough. In the gummatous form of glossitis, cauterization is only demanded to hasten the process of repair when this has once set in. A light application of tincture of iodine about the border of the ulcer, once or twice a day, or a slight pencilling with the crayon of nitrate of silver to stimulate forming granulations, is all that is required.1 Pharynx.—-Lesions of the pharynx, though not among the commoner lesions of the mucous membranes, are not rare. Mucous patches, as has been observed, are not found in this locality, but ulcerating submucous tubercles, gummata, and bone lesions, are not infrequently met with. The ordinary or serpiginous ulcers of the pharynx are commonly met with in the posterior wall, and resemble the same lesions as observed in the hard palate.2 Gum- mata of the pharynx are among the late lesions, and are usually situated on the posterior wall, the lesion showing itself first in the form of a small sub- cutaneous nodule, which increases in size very gradually, pushing forward the mucous membrane under which it lies, and which becomes discolored. After a greater or less period of time has elapsed, the tumor softens and ulcerates, or, if proper treatment has been employed in time, resolution may take place without a scar. Gummata of the pharynx may be mistaken for cancer. Maisonneuve3 gives the case of a patient who underwent a serious operation for a supposed encephaloid cancer of the pharynx. After six months the tumor began to grow again, and grew so rapidly that the patient was given up in despair and sent to the hospital to die. When examined, upon his entrance, an enormous tumor was found occupying the left lateral region of the neck and the entire parotid region. It pro- jected into the pharynx, obliterated the velum palati, and threatened the patient with death by asphyxia. The true nature of the tumor being suspected, the patient was at once placed upon iodide of potassium in sixteen-grain doses thrice daily. In /ess than six weeks the tumor had disappeared without leaving a vestige! Carcinoma, in fact, is the affection with which gumma of the pharynx is most apt to be confounded. It should be remembered, in making the diag- nosis, that the cancerous tumor (it is epithelioma which is here understood) is not as sharply circumscribed as the gumma, that it is less movable in the surrounding tissues, and, contrary to what is observed in gumma, is usually accompanied by some change in the neighboring lymphatic ganglia. Retro- pharyngeal abscess is distinguished from gumma, when acute, by the inflam- matory concomitant symptoms, and when subacute and cold, by the very early appearance of fluctuation. The prognosis of syphilitic affections of the pharynx is grave when any important function is involved, when a large gumma in suppurating gives rise to purulent infection, or when irregular contractile cicatrices are formed, 1 For further information see various monographs by Bouisson, Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1846 ; Lagneau, Des Tumeurs Syphilitiques de la Langue, Gaz. Hebdom., 1859, Nos. 32, 33 et 35, and Arch. Gen de Med., t. i., 1860, p. 217; and Maisonneuve, Sur les Tumeurs de la Langue. Th6se de Concours. Paris, 1848. 2 See Wiggleswortli, Buccal Ulcerations of Constitutional Origin. A paper read before the American Dermatological Association, at the fifth annual meeting, Newport, 1881. Archives of Dermatology, January, 1882. s Leqons Cliniques sur les Maladies Cancereuses. Paris, 1354.