513 SYPEILIS OF THE ALIMENTARY TRACT. Syphilis of the Alimentary Tract. Mouth.—The mouth is almost invariably the seat of some syphilitic lesion, at one time or another in the course of the disease, and various lesions may occur in this locality, from the most superficial to the most profound. Chancre, as has been stated, may occur about the mouth, being most com- monly met with upon the lower lip, and being also encountered upon the tongue or tonsils, and, more rarely, upon the internal surface of the cheek, the gums, or the uvula. Under the name of acute syphilitic angina, an erythematous efflorescence has been described, which occurs simultaneously with the earliest generalized manifestations of syphilis, appearing upon the palate, tonsils, and pharynx, as a diffuse redness with slight infiltration of the mucous membrane, and followed by the occasional formation of minute follicular abscesses. Associated with this condition there is often a general oedema, especially of the velum and uvula. The uvula is sometimes greatly swollen, but neither under such circumstances, nor even when it has become considerably eroded by later ulcerative lesions, should it be removed, since nature carries out a better system of repair spon- taneously. Acute syphilitic angina cannot be distinguished from simple sore throat, except by the aid of the history or concomitant symptoms of the disease.1 Mucous patches, and the slighter ulcerative lesions of the mucous membrane of the buccal cavity, have been described under the head of lesions of the mucous membranes.2 It may be noted in passing that mucous patches are not found upon the walls of the pharynx, a curious fact which is explained by the theory that as these lesions chiefly affect the papillary layer of the mucous membrane, the absence or ill-development of papillae in the pharynx accounts for their absence in that locality. The sunjective symptoms to which mucous patches of the mouth give rise are almost nil, causing the patient oftentimes to be unaware of their presence. When, however, ulcera- tion takes place, particularly about the tonsils, this may be quite extensive even when oidy superficial in character; it may give rise to great discomfort, and, when situated about the tonsils, to considerable difficulty in deglutition. The deeper syphilitic ulcers which are met with in the bucco-pliaryngeal cavity occur either spontaneously, or as following and resulting from gummata, submucous tubercles, or osseous lesions. These ulcers are indolent, with a sharply defined, puuched-out appearance, and with a dull, dusky base covered with grayish deposit. They are commonly limited in extent and do not tend to spread, but occasionally they take on phagedenic action and effect the most frightful ravages. A case has been reported where one of these ulcers penetrated to the lingual artery, requiring ligation of the primitive carotid to save life. Necrosis of the underlying bone occurs, at times, when the ulcer is situated in the pharynx or over the hard palate, communication sometimes being established between the nose and mouth, in the latter case, by this means. Treatment.—The local treatment of the more superficial syphilitic lesions of the buccal mucous membrane is essentially that described under the head of syphilis of the mucous membranes. Something more, however, may be here added. The two customary caustics employed are nitrate of silver, either in stick or in solution, and acid nitrate of mercury. The second is preferable, • See Martelli&re, De l’Angine Syphilitique. These de Paris, 1854. 8 See, also, Kaposi, Die Syphilis der Haut und der angrenzenden Schleimhaute. Wien, 1881. Neue (unveranderte) Ausgabe. VOL. II.—33