90 POISONED WOUNDS. entered liis mouth. He became very ill, with such local symptoms—diph- theritic stomatitis, with a strong gangrenous tendency—as seemed very like those of a poisoned wound. From the chronic septic poisoning which ensued, death resulted in about six months. Poisonous Effluvia.—One other form of poisoning by animal secretions ought not to be passed over—that by inhalation of effluvia. The reader will find this fully discussed in a most interesting paper by Dr. William Hunt.1 Except in the mode of its origin, and in the absence of primary local symp- toms, it does not differ materially from the disorder already described. Mr. II. E. Cauty2 reports a case of poisoning of a sewing-woman from handling “ Imitation Moleskin.” He says that, although there does not seem to be anything peculiar in the material, the women employed have to be very careful, as nasty sores are sure to be produced if they have any fis- sures or abrasions on the hands. This woman had on her hands nodules (seven on the right, five on the left) about the size of marbles, bright red, and very painful. These nodules suppurated in about a week ; on the left hand there was some burrowing of pus, and on the 12th day some sloughing took place. Thirteen days after she was seen, two more nodules formed on the right hand; red lines extended up the forearm, there was glandular irrita- tion at the elbow, and tenderness in the axilla. The skin exfoliated over the affected parts. Complete recovery ensued under the use of wine, cod-liver oil, and full diet. Wool-Sorter’s Disease.—Within the last year or two, attention has been called anew to a disorder known as “wool-sorter’s disease,” or “anthrax-fever.” It seems to be analogous to the forms of toxaemia described in the fore- going pages, and perhaps to be a sort of connecting link between them and “ malignant pustule.” The following description of it is condensed from various articles in recent English journals, it having prevailed so extensively in and about the manufacturing town of Bradford, as to call for investigation and report. The wool and hair of sheep and goats, imported for various purposes, was found to produce unequivocal attacks of anthrax, or “murrain,” in sheep and cattle. Upon the persons employed in sorting and cleaning it, it produced effects classified as follows: (1) A purely local irritation at the seat of inocu- lation ; (2) constitutional symptoms; (3) local manifestations followed by secondary localization of a constitutional infection; (4) a papule or pustule, not hitherto ascribed to specific infection, but not uncommon among wool- sorters, and those who make post-mortems in cases of anthrax. The stage of incubation is said to last from a few days to long periods. In the pro- dromal stage, there are chilliness, weariness and depression, sweats, flushing, and sleeplessness ; a sense of constriction of the chest, sighing, yawning, ach- ing in the limbs, cramps, headache, pain in the neck, dizziness, nausea, and vomiting. In the stage of full development, there are prostration, restless- ness, quickened respiration and pulse, high temperature, with irregular remis- sions, pulmonary congestion, haemoptysis, gastro-intestinal distress, diarrhoea, and jaundice in some cases. Twice tetanus was developed; once cerebral hemorrhage occurred. Recovery sometimes took place, without immunity from a second attack. The pathological anatomy of the disease is thus described.3 Early decom- 1 A Contribution to the History of Toxaemia. Pennsylvania Hospital Reports, 1868, p. 310. 2 Lancet, July 23, 1881. 3 J. Spear, Report to Local Government Board, etc.