LEGAL MEASURES TO PREVENT THE SPREAD OF SYPHILIS. 585 So far from syphilis gradually tapering off into scrofula, it is in reality cut short and extinguished. Many children and adults are alive and in blooming health at this day, one or even both of whose parents were the subjects at one time of syphilis. In the case of an individual who marries with symptoms of syphilitic dis- ease already manifest upon his person, or who contracts syphilis during mar- ried life, the considerations which present themselves are different from those which have thus far been discussed. The question here is to prevent the transmission of the disease to other members of the family, and chiefly to the husband or wife, as the case may be. When a man has a genital chancre, he seldom knowingly exposes his wife to contagion, and of course it is necessary to avoid sexual intercourse entirely at such a time. While the physician, consulted by such a person, should posi- tively interdict all commerce of the kind, he should, at the same time, when circumstances permit, adopt either such treatment as frequent coating of the lesion with collodion or light cauterizations with nitrate of silver, or the application of some such remedy as may suggest itself to prevent the possi- bility of coitus. For the married man who places himself in a position to contract syphilis, is not a person of such nice sensibility as to balk at the prospect of infecting his wife when his own selfish indulgence is in question. If we can persuade him that some injury to himself may possibly accrue, we may be able to arouse him to caution and self-denial; hut I have found it unsafe to appeal to any but selfish motives in such cases. The danger from chancre past, the next, and in practice indeed the com- monest danger, is from mucous patches about the mouth and lips. The mar- ried man who has suffered with chancre should examine his mouth and fauces daily during many months, in order to detect the first appearance of these extremely common lesions. When present, they should be cauterized lightly every day with nitrate of silver, with the view of coating their surface and rendering them less virulent, and at the same time the patient must be warned against kissing any one of the family, and against permitting the use after him of such utensils as spoons, cups, etc., by other persons, without pre- vious cleansing. Should the wife of such a person by chance become pregnant, she should undergo a course of mercurial treatment to prevent the development of syphilis in the fcetus. The earlier and more thorough the treatment of the mother, the more likely will she be to bring forth a healthy child.1 Legal Measures to prevent the Spread of Syphilis. The continuance and generally increased diffusion of syphilis have attracted the attention of the medical profession more and more to the necessity of employing some means of arresting the spread of the disease. The measures proposed have been: (1) that of Auzias Turenne,2 who conceived the idea that syphilis might be inoculated in the same manner as smallpox was inocu- lated before the discovery of vaccination, and thus immunity gained in case of subsequent exposure. (2) The supervision and examination of prostitutes 1 For a careful examination and treatment of this subject, reference may be made to the following works :— Langlebert, La Syphilis dans ses rapports avec le Mariage. Paris, 1873. Diday, Le Peril Venerien dans les Families. Paris, 1881. Fournier, Syphilis et Mariage. Paris, 1880. A translation of this work into English has lately appeared. 2 De la Syphilisation, ou Vaccination Syphilitique (Arch. Gen. de Med., 4e Ser. t. xxxvi., 1851).