204 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. ruination may be delayed for hours or days, according to the wound’s location. In injuries of less severity, affecting the medulla, its coverings, or the verte- bral bodies, though death is very probable, it is not inevitable, and is less to be apprehended in cases occurring in civil life than in those met with in military practice, since the missiles used in civil life are ordinarily smaller. Complete restoration to health, in cases other than those in which the pro- cesses only are affected, rarely occurs, more or less nervous disturbance (pain, weakness, or positive paralysis) usually remaining during the after-life of the individual, with perhaps caries and abscess, or fistulae communicating with dead bone. When the injury has involved only a spinous process, and there has been no associated damage of the cord—which is frequently, if not gene- rally, the case—the chances of recovery are very good. Even when the body of a vertebra has been broken—and under such circumstances considerable comminution may be expected to occur—if there has been no lesion of the cord or theca, other than perhaps a limited extravasation of blood outside the sheath, or a concussion of the medulla, the individual may not only not die, but may recover, and with very little after-disturbance, organic or func- tional. In a case reported by Keen, a conoidal ball entered through the right upper lip and lodged in the body of the third cervical vertebra, from which place it was extracted six weeks later. The paralysis which had affected all four limbs was rapidly recovered from. Five weeks after the removal of the bullet, there was spontaneously discharged “ nearly the entire body of the third cervical vertebra, including the anterior half of the transverse process and the vertebral foramen.” Nearly eight years afterwards the man was living, having his “ right shoulder and arm diminished in size and par- tially paralyzed.” Such a fortunate result, however, occurs only in young persons or in those not beyond middle life. Contusion of the bone may be followed by temporary and quickly recovered from general disturbance, or, after a few days, may give rise to meningo-myelitis, soon terminating in death; but inflammation is much less likely to occur here than in the head after cranial contusions, on account of the greater protection afforded by the subarachnoid fluid. Wounds of nerves close to the intervertebral foramina, will be followed by serious effects, motor and sensory, in the parts which they supply; and even concus- sion may give rise to paralysis and atrophy, the latter especially being likely to remain for a considerable time, if not permanently. Treatment.—The special treatment of spinal injuries produced by gunshot has reference only to the removal, when practicable, of foreign bodies, such as balls, bone-fragments, shreds of clothing, etc. The wound should be ex- plored as early and as thoroughly as possible by the Anger, if it can be used, if not by the probe, in order that the presence or absence of fracture may be determined. Loose pieces of bone and clothing are to be taken away, and, if detected, the bullet also, provided that its removal can be effected by the exercise of warrantable force and in reasonable time; otherwise the shot is to be left undisturbed. Under no circumstances should any extensive cutting operation be practised in the search for a ball the location of which has not been ascertained by touch. Formal trephining has not as yet resulted favor- ably, but decided benefit has in some cases followed the elevation of de- pressed spinous processes and laminae. At times, the extraction of the missile may be followed by severe hemorrhage, necessitating the plugging of the wound. If an associated injury of an artery is causing troublesome bleeding, the vessel should if possible be found, and ligatures should be ap- plied on either side of the opening. This complication is however a rare