GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 148 The diaphyseal fractures, according to Bornhaupt, “ sometimes resemble a stick bent in its longitudinal axis; or a ring compressed from two opposite sides. In the first case, there may be simple transverse fracture1 (mostly through spent bullets); in the second, two, three, or four longitudinal fis- sures. If the diaphysis be injured more towards the middle part, then the two mechanisms combine in the production of a peculiar form of fracture, viz., the ‘ spiral longitudinal fracture.’ The hone divides into four fragments ; in addition to an upper and lower fragment, two triangular splinters are to be found opposite the part which has been struck, forming the posterior longi- tudinal fissure. When the bullet has not hit directly the posterior "wall of the bone, the longitudinal fissure originates through direct force, and not through the hydraulic pressure of the marrow.” It is to this “pressure de- veloped by projectiles in the liquids which they traverse,” that Kocher has attributed, “ in great measure, the lateral splintering produced by the ball.” Otis has called attention to the fact that when the femur has been struck by a heavy conoidal ball, in addition to the damage at the place of impact, there is, at times, an added transverse fracture two or three inches above or below, according as the shot has struck below or above the middle of the shaft. However expensive the splintering, if consequent upon a bullet wound, the fissures generally, at least in children and young adults, do not extend beyond the epiphyseal line; and in some cases in which they run through the arti- culating extremity, “ the synovial membrane remains intact, and the joint is not opened.” It would appear from the observations and experiments of Kircher and Longmore, that though there is, as the result of the blow of the conoidal bullet, more extensive splintering than when the injury is inflicted by a round ball, there is not so much separation of the fragments, -which are to a considerable extent held in place by untorn periosteum; and, further, that the hardened bullet does not as extensively comminute nor as widely scatter the pieces of the broken bone as does the soft lead one. In accepting this latter conclusion of Mr. Longmore, due allowance must be made for the difference in diameter of the bullets used, that of the Enfield pure-lead ball being .55 in., and that of the Martini-Henry lead-and-tin ball .45 in. The probability of recovery with preservation of a usefnl limb, if the wound is located in one of the extremities, is, of course, much greater, other things being 1 In tlie Army Medical Museum at Washington there is a specimen of “the left clavicle transversely fractured, without comminution, directly in the middle. (Fig. 255.) The missile Fig. 255. Transverse gunshot fracture of right clavicle by conical ball. (A. M. M. Spec. 1210.) was a conoidal hall which entered near the third dorsal vertebra, fracturing the corresponding rib at its angle, and was found after death encysted immediately beneath the fractured point of the clavicle.” MacCormac reports a case in which “the ball entered on the inner side of the right thigh, close to the perineum, and after traversing the femur just beneath the lesser trochanter, emerged on the outer side of the thigh. There were, when first examined, two inches of shortening and great deformity. The fracture must have been almost a transverse one, for the bone, after considerable extending force had been applied, went into its place with a jerk, and there remained. The patient recovered without a bad symptom, and the most accurate measurements failed, six weeks afterwards, to detect any appreciable amount of shortening.”