613 ECZEMA. Apart from tlie multiplicity of its forms, due to the protean character of its lesions, the appearances of eczema vary greatly in individual cases, according to its seat and etiological relations; hut space permits the consideration of those varieties only which have direct, practical relations to surgery. Ec- zema is frequently caused by the use of the mechanical apparatus and chemical applications to the skin, employed in surgery, resulting from undue pressure or friction, or, in the latter case, from a macerating or irritating action upon the surface. Of the former causes we have an example in the acute inflammation produced by the pads and straps of trusses, which often prevents their proper employment, especially in hot weather and in persons habitually disposed to eczema. Much may be done to prevent such disturbance by judicious selec- tion of the material and surface structure of the pad, and by frequent change in the arrangement of the straps which tend to produce chafing. By proper local treatment of the eczematous patches during the night, moreover, the evil effects of the unavoidable use of such apparatus by day may be counter- acted, and their constant use may thus be rendered possible. The forms of eczema produced by such appliances are, at first, generally of mild type, the erythematous, readily assuming, however, the condition of eczema madidans in parts where, in addition to the mechanical pressure and friction of the harness, two surfaces of skin are in frequent contact, as in the groin, the opposing faces of the scrotum and thigh, the abdominal folds of old and fat people, etc. At a later period, the cutaneous tissues may become much thickened by cell-infiltration. Of the ill-effects, in the same direction, of maceration, we have illustrations in the action upon many skins of water-dressings and poultices. Eczema thus produced, begins generally in the form of a simple folliculitis, which may be converted into a continuous eczematous dermatitis, or the “ madidans” or “ pustulosum” variety, or which may extend into the deeper periglandular tissues in the form of furuncular inflammation. Mucla mischief is often thus produced by the injudicious employment of poultices upon the skin surround- ing diseased centres of various kinds. Poultices should therefore be made no larger, nor worn any longer, than the original process under treatment absolutely demands. The legitimate softening action of the poultice may in many instances be obtained by the application of thick layers of lard, with- out injury to skins readily disposed to this form of inflammation. The same results often follow the application of the rubber bandage, where, in addi- tion to the unrelaxed pressure, we have the parts constantly bathed in the confined perspiration. In such cases, too, we may, by proper treatment of the inflamed skin after the removal of the bandage, at bedtime, be enabled to employ it without interruption throughout the day. By prolonged water- dressings, deep-seated furuncular inflammations of the cutaneous tissues are occasionally produced, the same as those which result from the action of the Priesnitz water-cure upon the skin, the so-called critical eruptions. Of the other class of applications, those which from their irritating effects upon the skin are most likely to produce eczema, the most common in sur- gical use are ammoniacal liniments, mercurial preparations, carbolic dressings, and arnica. They excite ordinarily the erythematous or papular forms, rarely higher stages of inflammation, unless the employment of the irritant is con- tinued. The repeated application of mercurial ointment is often interfered with by the folliculitis or more diffused dermatitis which it produces, but in the inunction cure of syphilis these ill effects may almost always be pre- vented by rubbing the ointment into the lower legs the first night, into the thighs the second, the abdomen the third, the sides of the chest the fourth, the upper arms the fifth, the forearms the sixth, the lower legs the seventh night, and so on. By such rotation, the process may be employed continu-