GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 178 determine what shall he done. Gunshot fractures of the skull differ from other fractures only in the greater probability of the meninges or brain, or both, being damaged. If there is a linear fracture existing without depression or symptoms of compression, the case should certainly be treated expectantly; and yet in these very cases there is a strong possibility that there has been splintering of the internal table, and that there will be developed a meningo-encephalitis, though this latter condition is not a necessary sequence. When there is com- minution and depression,without compression—and, for still stronger reasons, when pressure symptoms are present—it is certainly the part of wisdom to remove the fragments; and this can generally be done by the aid of the ele- vator, without having recourse to the trephine. But aside from cutting out a little unbroken bone, what added risk is there in judiciously using a conical trephine to open a way by which to get at and remove existing fragments ? Notwithstanding that the use of this instrument has been absolutely pro- scribed by some most experienced surgeons, such as Stromeyer and Neudor- fer, it certainly seems as if it were proper in injuries like these. The case is altogether different from that of operating upon an unopened skull for a sus- pected, but not definitely diagnosticated and located, intra-cranial lesion. Whether the trephine shall or shall not be used, cannot properly he deter- mined by an examination of statistical tables, embracing as they must do cases of very diverse nature, operated upon under widely different circum- stances. The death-rate among the English, in the Crimea, was 75 per cent. (21 out of 28), while during our war, in which the operation was resorted to seven times as often, it was but 56 per cent. (110 out of 196), 3 per cent, less than the general mortality of gunshot fractures of the skull. If penetration has occurred, shall the ball and bone-splinters be sought for? If the cranial opening is large enough to readily admit the finger, careful exploration of the track should be made; if not, and if a probe, or, which is better, an elastic searcher (for instance, a bougie) is used, the utmost care and almost no force must be exercised, lest the instrument should be pushed through the brain substance, instead of passing by its own weight along the sinus. So easy is it to do harm, that it may safely be declared that at least an inexperienced hand should never probe a penetrating head-wound. If the missile or other foreign body is felt, it should be extracted, if this can be done without spe- cial damage to the brain, the opening in the skull being enlarged if necessary. The successful removal of a bullet from within the cranial cavity, however, is a piece of surgical good fortune; and very often the ball does less damage than the search which is made for it. Wharton’s investigations would seem to prove that the search for the foreign body is less dangerous than has generally been supposed. Of his 316 cases, of which one-half (160) recovered, in 106 removal was effected with a mortality percentage of 32, while in the 210 in which there was no attempt at extraction, the corresponding percentage of death was 58. Of 111 cases of recovery in which no mental disturbances remained, in 56 the foreign body had been removed, and in 45 left; that is, in 52.8 per cent, of the whole number of the former category, and in only 21.43 per cent, of the whole number of the latter. But it should be remembered that it was probably only in the milder cases, and when the foreign body was superficially lodged, that its extraction was attempted. Treatment of Cerebral Complications.—For the relief of the meningo- encephalitis, which may be developed early, or more likely during the second week, only the ordinary anti-phlogistic treatment can be adopted, rest and cold being by far the most important elements thereof. When there is a sudden increase in the severity of the symptoms, especially the headache, or