INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAE. 712 Subcutaneous Olecranal Bursa.—Owing to its position, this sac is exceed- ingly apt to be contused or wounded. Such injuries, especially contused wounds, are apt to be followed by phlegmonous erysipelas of the whole upper extremity, involving even the axilla. In the old this may prove fatal. Deep Olecranal Bursa.—This is not always an independent sac, but a mere process of the synovial capsule of the joint. If it does not open into the joint, the diagnosis of enlargement of this bursa from joint-disease can be readily made by noting the absence in the former of “puffiness between the inner condyle and the olecranon process, when the arm is bent at right angles,” . . . and by “the infallible test . . . that the line of junction between the head of the radius and the humerus is as clear and well defined as ever.”1 Treatment of Bursal Enlargements about the Elbow.—Strict rest on a splint, with local and general antiphlogistics, should be tried. If phlegmonous erysipelas supervenes, early and free incisions, with supporting treatment, are indicated. Simple enlargements of the various elbow bursae should be cautiously dealt with, owing to their relations to the joint. I once laid open the bursa over the head of the radius and packed it with lint; spreading cellulitis resulted, the joint became involved and was destroyed, and death resulted from septicaemia. Bursas of Wrist and Hand. Like those of the ankle, the bursae of this region usually occur as bursae synoviales (synovial sheaths for the tendons), and the consideration of their diseases belongs to another article. Those which may be fairly described as bursae rather than synovial sheaths, are only two, viz: one over the styloid process of the radius, and another over that of the ulna. In the hand, bursae are constant upon both the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations; over the dorsal surface of the inter-phalangeal joints; occasionally over the radial border of the first phalanx of the forefinger of the right hand, in joiners; over the posterior faces of the second and fifth meta- carpals of the right hand, in workmen manufacturing wall-papers;2 and over the first inter-phalangeal joint of the right index finger in writers. Nothing special need be said of the bursae of the wrist, which have been sufficiently considered in speaking of synovial herniae. Those of the hand cannot be so cursorily dealt with, since the bursae over the dorsal aspect of the inter-phalangeal joints, especially that of the forefinger, and also those of both the dorsal and palmar aspects of the metaearpo-phalangeal joints, are subject to a painful form of enlargement. Rheumatic and gouty individuals are the chief if not only sufferers, unless traumatism be the exciting cause. Usually these enlargements appear to be caused merely by the natural use of the parts. Perhaps prolonged writing or other light manual labor may be the starting point. The same amount and severity of work in any other than a rheumatic or gouty individual would produce nothing beyond temporary fatigue. The affected parts swell, become painful, stiff, and tender. All the symptoms are worse on rising in the morning, and are ameliorated during the day. Rest at first entirely relieves the trouble, but the least exercise renews it; the periar- thritic tissues crepitate when pressed upon, thickening results, and the mem- ber becomes almost useless. The weather evidently affects the parts, and inter- current attacks, affecting other bursae, or perhaps joints, are not uncommon. Barwell, op. cit. 2 My authority refers to French workmen.