(63) THE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. BY W. WATSON CHEYNE, M.B., F.R.C.S. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO KING:S COLLEGE HOSPITAL AND DEMONSTRATOR OF SURGERY IN KING’S COLLEGE, LONDON. Origin of the Antiseptic Method. The title of “ The Antiseptic Method” was given by Mr. Lister to a form of wound treatment founded on certain definite principles, and commenced by him in 1865. For several years previously be had been impressed with the great evils which resulted from the putrefaction of discharges in wounds, and though he had succeeded in many ways in lessening the occurrence of putre- faction, yet it was not till after he had examined the results of Pasteur’s researches on spontaneous generation, and on the causes of fermentations, that he was able to systematize his work. ITp to this time, scientific opinion, more especially in England, had been divided between two views with regard to the occurrence of fermentation, the one asserting that this process was due to the action of the gases of the air, and particularly of the oxygen, on the discharges, and the other asserting that fermentation was a spontaneous alteration, occurring in organic fluids after their exit from the tissues and vessels, and that it was a necessary consequence of loss of vitality. As long as these views were current, there was not much hope of entirely eradicating putrefaction in wounds, and its consequent evils. The effort to exclude the gases of the air had been made by several surgeons, and had entirely failed to do any good. Most prominent among the surgeons who had used the so-called “ occlusion” method, with the view of arresting the putrefaction of the discharges of wounds by preventing the entrance of atmos- pheric gases, was Jules Guerin, of Paris. Starting with the good results which followed subcutaneous operations, he attributed these to the avoidance of putrefaction in the wound, or at least to the exclusion of the atmospheric gases from it. He therefore carried on an elaborate series of experiments with the view of excluding the gases of the air from wounds, but without any good result. He sealed up wounds with various materials, especially with gold-beater’s skin, but the result was more frequently tension and inflamma- tion in the wound, than the absence of fermentation and a subcutaneous heal- ing. In later years, he tried other means, and at length introduced a special apparatus by means of which the air was pumped away from the vicinity of the wound. Nevertheless putrefaction and its consequences still occurred. 'Various other attempts have been made on the same principle, and these have in like manner failed. Thus the wound has been covered with collodion, so-called styptic colloid, etc. Leconte and Demarquay substituted other gases, more especially carbonic acid gas, for air, but their method was quite impracticable on a large scale, while it did not prevent fermentation.