304 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. times extending to months, though such cases also are exceptional. No dietetic cause is known, but the invasion of the disease is more apt to occur in the debilitated and ill-fed. An incursion of the affection is preceded by pains in the part, often of a decidedly neuralgic character, and, when in a limb, extending from the part to be attacked along the nerves leading to the trunk. Course.—White gangrene may appear upon any part of the person, hut it usually occurs on the extremities, and more often the lower ones. The neu- ralgic pains and depression may continue for weeks and even months before the occurrence of the gangrene. In females there are apt to he great men- strual irregularities and nervous symptoms. The gangrene at length shows itself by the formation of a circumscribed spot on the leg or foot, or it may include a toe. The color of this spot, which is generally an inch or two in diameter, with a tendency to become circular, is a dull white. The skin soon becomes dry, parchment-like, and somewhat shrivelled. This hue is retained throughout the whole time of separation, which takes place as in the case of other sloughs by the formation of the red line, the parts around having a reddish-purple color. A sulcus is formed, in which the process of granulation lifts off the slough. There is in this condition a wide variety as to the depth of the slough. A very common form attacks merely the dermis, while another penetrates downwards through the tissues even to the bone. As might be inferred, the period of time occupied in the duration of the process may be very variable. If superficial, the white thin mass will drop off like an eschar in the course of two or three weeks; but when it goes to the bone, a period of months may be required for separation and repair. Diagnosis.—It is not possible to confound this condition with the gangrene arising from severe pressure upon the surface, nor with that resulting from contusion, for in both we have the skin and subjacent tissue immediately taking on a dark color. The white appearance caused by compression dis- appears in a short time after the pressure is removed, and, before it becomes gangrenous, the part acquires a deep red color. Where there is contusion, violet or gray spots appear from the beginning. Prognosis.—As regards the prognosis in white gangrene, it may be regarded as very favorable in the superficial form. But it must be also plain that when the disease passes down through the tissues, denuding the bones and opening the joints, it must be of a very fatal character. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease does not differ from that proper in other forms of non-inflammatory gangrene at the same periods of life. There is the same depression of vital power during the progress and time of separation of the sloughs. For local application we may employ the disin- fectant solutions employed in ordinary inflammatory gangrene. The consti- tution needs the same supporting plan. Symmetrical Gangrene. This condition is manifested in several ways. It frequently happens that both limbs become gangrenous almost at the same time, the disease extending upwards with a decidedly symmetrical movement. This may be due to the circumstance that both have deposits in the arteries in very nearly the same