GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 138 to be incorporated in the reparative callus; the extraction of loose fragments (the primary sequestra of Dupuytren) should be effected as soon as possible, in order to prevent or moderate the irritation that almost always results from their presence—almost always, but not always, for once in a while spicula will be found, long after the receipt of the wound, resting quietly in the midst of perfectly healthy tissue. Treatment of Primary Effects: Hemorrhage.—The immediate effects of the wound, pain and shock, are to be treated in the ordinary way. What shall be done for the arrestation of hemorrhage, is, perhaps, the most important question that can be asked respecting the treatment of gunshot wounds. Pri- mary bleeding, as wTe have already seen, may and often does spontaneously cease. Secondary lieynorrhage, too, may stop without surgical interference, but com- paratively rarely. To control bleeding, resort may be had to compression, to the use of styptics, to the employment of the actual cautery, or to the application of the ligature. Compression, when it can be properly effected; when there has been a com- plete division of the vessel, and that not a large one; when there is under- neath the artery a firm bony surface, affording counter-pressure; or when the bleeding is venous, oftentimes answers an excellent purpose. When applied, not over the seat of injury, but above, upon the main vessel, or completely around the limb, it is of great temporary value, and may for the time being be the only practicable method of checking the flow of blood; but in mili- tary surgery it is well known to be a dangerous measure, being very apt to be too tightly or too long applied, when it produces great swelling of the parts below, if not their actual death. By pressing with the finger in the wound, directly upon the bleeding point, the outflow7 of blood can be per- fectly prevented until time and opportunity have been afforded for the appli- cation of a ligature; and it should always be borne in mind that very little direct force is required to stop the circulation through even a large artery.1 Delayed hemorrhage after amputations, if not in large amount, may often be readily and perfectly arrested by methodical compression with a bandage, thus obviating the necessity of reopening the stump. Styptics should not, as a rule, be employed for the checking of bleeding, other than that from very small vessels (vdien pressure or torsion will gener- ally answer better), or from the general surface of the wound—capillary or parenchymatous hemorrhage, which is very often but the precursor of an attack of pyaemia—or when it is from an artery which is deeply seated and difficult to find and take up. Even in the latter case, the use of the persul- phate or of the perchloride of iron, wffiich are the styptics ordinarily em- ployed of late, very often fails of accomplishing the desired object, and only serves to waste valuable time, and to put the patient, because of recurrent hemorrhage, in a much worse condition than he v7as at first. So much abused and improperly employed are these per-salts of iron, that it would certainly be better for the subjects of gunshot wounds if these agents were banished from the surgical pharmacopoeia. 1 As illustrative of the good effect of digital pressure, and of an exceptionally favorable result of compression, may be cited Larrey’s case of wound of the external carotid. The hall cut the vessel at its point of separation from the internal carotid, and as it entered the parotid gland. “ The fall of the wounded man and the considerable spurt of blood that came through both openings, attracted the attention of the cannoneers. One of them, a very intelligent man, had the presence of mind to promptly thrust his fingers into the openings, and thus stop the bleed- ing. ... A methodical compressive bandage, to my great astonishment, arrested the rapid march of death, and saved the officer.”