SYPHILIS. 490 ing often for weeks and months without change; in fact, untreated, certain syphilitic eruptions may last unchanged for years. Of course, this peculiarity of the syphilodermata differentiates them sharply from the various eruptive fevers, and from the febrile pseudo-exanthemata, the spontaneous evolution of which is always rapid, and their duration comparatively ephemeral. The syphilodermata are usually apruriginous, in fact, without any sensation of any kind. It not infrequently happens with regard to the early erup- tions, and particularly in the case of the erythematous eruptions, that the pa- tient’s attention is first called to the existence of the affection by the physi- cian who is examining him. Occasionally the early syphilitic eruptions do itch a little, especially when they first make their appearance. Patients are not often driven to scratch, however, as is the case in the other eruptions for which they might be mistaken. The syphilodermata, or some of them, when they affect the scalp, axillae, sternal re- gion, anterior aspect of the limbs, etc., are likely in some cases to excite a certain amount of pruritus. I had under my care some time ago a woman suffering from an eczematiform eruption of the scalp (see under Vesicular Syphiloderm), who suffered from intense pruritus during the entire course of the affection. Pruritus, however, is very rare in any case. The syphilodermata are all amenable to the influence of mercury. This fact, which has been known since the end of the fifteenth century, is now settled beyond question. Occasionally a syphiloderm may for a time appear rebel- lious to the influence of mercury, but, on the other hand, a questionable eruption which yields to this touchstone1 may with certainty be regarded as of syphilitic origin.2 Classification of the Syphilodermata. The syphilodermata are classified according to their pathological character as follows:— I. Erythematous. II. Papular. (a) Small papular. (b) Large papular. (c) Moist papular. (d) Vegetating papular. (e) Papulo-squamous. III. Vesicular. IV. Pustular. (a) Small acuminated pustular. (b) Large acuminated pustular. (c) Small flat pustular. (d) Large flat pustular. V. Tubercular. (a) Tubercular serpiginous. (b) Tubercular vegetating. VI. Gummatous. VII. Bullous. VIII. Pigmentary. > This touchstone of treatment should, however, he reserved only for cases where the diagnosis remains uncertain after every effort to make it out from the symptoms. 2 The clearest and most satisfactory description of the syphilodermata in the English language is to he found in Duhring’s Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, 2d ed., p. 470 et seq. Fournier, op. cit., 2e ed., p. 258 et seq., gives the fullest account of these lesions with which I am ac- quainted.