136 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. lodged, may be detected and removed; these being either the missile itself (small shot, bullet, or shell-fragment), which lias not passed through and out, or other substances carried in with the ball, such as coins, keys, fragments of watches, etc., and especially punched-out pieces of clothing.1 Bird-shot, fired from a distance, and small pistol bullets, are very likely to lodge, often being much flattened, generally from striking upon bone. An- gular pieces of shell, if projected edgeways, are almost certain to lodge, even when of large size; cloth, when carried along with a bullet, though occa- sionally adhering as a cap or even complete covering, is generally left some- where in the track, whether the wound is penetrating or perforating, and under such circumstances, if not removed, remains as a constant source of irri- tation, with resulting sinus and attendant discharge, due, according to Neu- dorfer, to the organic nature of the material. The sooner the exploration is made the better; since the search is less painful at first than it becomes sub- sequently, and since the track of the ball is then more open, and therefore more readily followed. After the inflammatory stage has set in, the wound should be left undisturbed until suppuration is well established, any interfer- ence with it at this time being likely to increase the existing irritation. The most serious results, even in some cases the development of tetanus, have been produced by such inopportune exploration. For the discovery of foreign bodies, the finger is by far the best of all instruments, and it should always be employed when the size and length of the track will permit. In other cases, the probe must be used, either the ordinary probe of the pocket-case, or a much longer one (which, however, Fig. 251. may easily be made in two or more segments, and thus readily carried), or a vertebrated, or better, spiral probe, which, by its flexibity, will more readily follow the course of the ball. But of the use of any of these probes, it may still be said, in the words of Pare: “Oftentimes you shall scarce by this means find the bullet,” and only by lucky chance a piece of cloth, the pres- ence of which can, as a rule, be recognized only by the finger. Are all wounds to be explored? In civil practice I believe not, or at least not to any great extent. Very frequently the injury has been inflicted by scattered bird-shot, or by a pistol ball of small calibre. In the former case, if the lead does not lie near enough to the surface to be felt upon palpation, much less damage is likely to result from its presence than from attempts to find it. In the latter, if judicious and not long continued probing fails to reveal the location of the little bullet, it may safely be left, either to become encysted or to be loosened and brought to the surface in the process of suppuration. When the wound has beenmade by a musket ball, or by a pistol ball of large size, the case is altogether different. Here an exploration should always be made, so that it may be known what damage has been done, and so that the 1 The sizes and kinds of foreign bodies that may be lodged, sometimes unknown to the patient and unsuspected by the surgeon, almost surpass belief: a round shot of 32 lbs’, weight “ buried itself under the skin and muscles of the hip” (Hennen); one of 12 lbs. in the thigh (H. W. Davis); one of 8 lbs. in the thigh (Guthrie) ; one of 6 lbs. under the scapula (Chenu) ; one of 5 lbs. in the thigh (Larrey)—the four last mentioned having been discovered only upon amputation.