375 TREATMENT OF URETHRAL CATARRH. Dispensary of the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, have failed to confirm these statements. A favorite prescription of the late Dr. Maury was :— R Tinct. matico, Tinct. catechu, aa l'3j. Ext. opii, gr. xvj. Pluinbi acet. gr. xij. Glycerins, f3iv. Aquas ros. f^vss. M. Boracic acid, in the strength of five grains to the ounce of water, is strongly recom- mended as an injection by Dr. James G. Hyndman, of Cincinnati, and by others, who report unusual success following its employment in a number of cases. I am not able to confirm this opinion of the remedy, although I tried it in a number of cases at the time attention was first drawn to it. The relative merits of these various remedies are unsettled, and an attempt to formulate them would require detailed description which would extend this article far beyond the prescribed limits. It may be assumed, however, that if, after careful attention to the rules already laid down, and the final trial of some of these supplementary remedies, a urethral discharge persists, it will fall under one or another of the divisions laid down on page 351, and will require corresponding treatment. Diday, whose forty years of large experience entitle him to respectful attention, describes his treatment of gonorrhoea as follows, dividing the disease into four stages :* First Stage—Warmth during micturition ; a drop of semi-transparent discharge at the meatus. Inject one drachm of a solution of nitrate of silver, one part in ninety, and retain for five minutes. In successful cases the discharge wholly disappears. Second Stage.—Red, shiny meatus ; hourly drop of yellow or greenish discharge; ardor urinae ; chordee. The secret of success in treating gonorrhoea lies in patient expectation throughout this stage, with the use of demulcent drinks, restricted diet, and rest. Third Stage.—Reached on an average in five or six weeks, often not until two and a half or three months have elapsed. Meatus normal; almost no ardor urinse ; dis- charge less abundant and whitish. Copaiba, or cubebs and copaiba, and an astringent injection, are the remedies indicated. Fourth Stage.—Usually the result of attempts at early suppression. Little or no pain ; discharge small; disease unaffected by copaiba and cubebs; readily becomes worse under irritants. Here the main dependence should be placed upon injections, among which he prefers that of Ricord :— R—Zinci sulph. gr. viij. Plumbi acetat. gr. xvj. Tinct. opii, Tinct. catechu, aa f'3ss. Aqua; ros. ad f^iv. M. Sig Use three times daily. Treatment of Urethral Catarrh.—If the characteristics of what I have called urethral catarrh are present, a little attention to the general health, a few drops of the syrup of iodide of iron after meals, moderate exercise and fresh air, a free diet, with an occasional glass of claret or burgundy at meals, will usually be sufficient, without local treatment, to terminate the case. Perseverance in the use of astringent injections and in the introduction of bougies will sometimes hasten the cure, but quite as often seems to retard it. These constitute the majority of those chronic urethral cases which are 1 Diday et Doyon, Therapeutique des Maladies Veneriennes, etc., pp. 8-39. Paris, 1876.