GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 210 ment of the missile may take place, much more frequently, in the case of the thigh and leg bones, in one of the epiphyses than in the shaft. Bullets thus lodged, if not removed, though they ordinarily prove a strongly exciting cause of early local mischief, may become encapsulated, and give rise to no trouble; but serious inflammation may be excited by their presence years subsequently.1 When it is the tarsus that has been wounded, the ball, par- ticularly if a small one, often buries itself in the cancellous tissue, or is wedged between two bones, from whence it may be removed only with much difficulty. In addition to the ordinary longitudinal or spiral fractures of the femur or tibia, there may be a transverse break at some little distance above or below the point of impact, according as the latter is below or above the middle of the shaft. (Otis.) Pseudarthrosis is of less frequent occurrence, in these cases, than might naturally be expected from the extent of damage done by gunshot violence. Berenger-Feraud has collected the histories of fifty-six cases of non-union of the femur, and seventeen of the bones of the leg; and believes that such a condition is less often seen after wounds of the lower than after those of the upper extremity (in the proportion of eleven to twenty-four), not because of any difference in the parts themselves, but for the reason that attempts at saving the limb are so much oftener made in injuries of the arm and forearm than in those of the leg and thigh. The femur is, of all the long bones, the one most frequently wounded, and that injury to which is most dangerous to life.2 At times, when the lesion is in its upper part,3 the fracture may he readily recovered from with but little shortening or deformity. The causes of the great mortality attending this injury are: the hardness of the compact tissue and consequent extent of the shattering; the necessarily considerable hemorrhage that must occur, even if the larger vessels are uninjured; the deep situation of the bone, and its heavy muscular and fascial investments, much hindering the outflow of fluids; the abundance of lymph-vessels in the thigh; and the size and im- portance of the neighboring arteries, veins, nerves, and joints, one or more of which are so often associated in the lesion. Tibial fractures, though less likely to terminate fatally than those of the femur, are yet very serious accidents, especially if of any considerable extent, and particularly if accompan ied by fract ure of the fibula. When the injury is a crushing one, and near the knee, rather profuse and troublesome hemor- rhage is almost certain to ensue, even if none of the large vessels in the vici- nity have been wounded. Great Assuring, longitudinal and spiral, is of frequent occurrence in this locality, and the fissures, though there may he so little separation of the fragments that prolonged walking is not at first pre- vented, may yet ultimately give rise to a fatal osteo-myelitis. Similar splitting of the fibula is much less often seen, the shot usually producing comminution or loss of substance (“exsection-fracture”). When the skeleton of the foot is injured, there may be great crushing, as from the blow of a piece of shell, or of a nearly spent large shot, or from the passage of a bullet, longitudinally or transversely, or the damage may be limited to one or two of the tarsal or metatarsal bones. 1 Larrey reports a case in which a hall, buried in the 'lower extremity of the tibia for nearly thirty years, caused an osteitis that necessitated amputation. 2 Of over 2000 cases of fracture of the femoral shaft occurring in recent wars, more than three- fifths ended fatally (2142 cases with 1289 deaths, or 60.17 per cent.). The mortality according to location was : in wounds of the upper third, 72 per cent. ; in those of the middle third, 60 per cent. ; and in those of the lower third, 53 per cent. 3 At least once such a result has followed a break lower down, viz., in Legouest’s case of a young negro, wounded in the middle third of the femur, and who, in two months and a half, was able to walk, and had no shortening of the limb.