CARCINOMA. 651 several years, the growth undergoes ulceration, superficial or deep seated, according to the depth to which the cancerous infiltration has penetrated. In the former variety, we have an ulcer similar for a time to that of flat epithe- lioma ; in the latter, one extending by gradual penetration, or by rapid dis- integration of the upper layers of the skin, to deeper parts. It presents a finely granular, reddish surface, which secretes an ichorous fluid, forming, it may be, a thin glaze over it, and has an abrupt, hard, irregular edge. The ulceration follows closely upon the spread of the infiltration peripherally, so that it constantly increases in extent and depth. It does not confine its ravages to the cutaneous tissues, but penetrates to all underlying structures, muscle, cartilage, and bone. Occasionally a portion of the growth may slough away, and leave healthy granulating tissue, which tends to cicatrization, but such attempts at spontaneous cure are partial, and do not affect the final result. Sometimes, too, the growth assumes the appearance of medullary cancer in late stages. The glands eventually become implicated, sharp pains in the part reduce the strength of the patient, marasmus gradually develops, and, after years of such progress, a fatal result ensues. Papillomatous Epithelioma.—Sometimes epithelioma begins in the form of an elevated growth—having at times a constricted neck, at others a broad base—varying in size from that of a dime to a diameter of several inches. Its surface is flat, or umbilicated, smooth, or covered with yellowish, closely adherent scales. In its advanced stages, its surface is ulcerated and granu- lated, or fissured, red, bleeding easily, and discharging an ichorous fluid which covers the growth on drying with brownish crusts. The same comedo-like, nodular masses may sometimes be scpieezed out from it as from the two pre- ceding varieties. It may develop in the course of the flat epithelioma, in which case its seat is superficial; or from the nodular form, when it may be felt extending deeply into the cutaneous tissues. It may originate in its own form, but more commonly grows from surfaces already affected by one of the other varieties, and runs a more or less rapid and malignant course according to the particular form with which it is associated. Locality of Epithelioma.—The most common seat of epithelioma is on the face or genitals. It seldom occurs primarily elsewhere. Upon the face, fiat • epithelioma most frequently affects the region of the nose, eyelids, and cheeks, from which it may spread extensively to neighboring parts of the integument. It is in these regions that warts and senile forms of keratosis are so apt, in late life, to become the starting-point of the disease. Disfigurement, even in the course of the superficial form, is often produced by shrinking and cica- trization in the regions of the nose and eyelids, but when the disease assumes the nodular form, the destruction and disfigurement are often frightful. The eyelids may be wholly destroyed, the soft parts of the nose eaten away, or the ear entirely consumed. From these openings, the disease penetrates to the mucous membrane and soft parts of the adjoining cavities, finally attack- ing the bones. The teeth are lost, the antrum and frontal sinuses are opened, and the surface of the cranium may be exposed and destroyed by necrosis, so that the membranes of the brain become visible. The fungoid or papillo- matous form may develop in such advanced stages of the disease. Upon the lip, epithelioma begins almost always in the nodular form, and may spread to the mucous membrane of the mouth. At times, all three varieties of the affection may be exhibited simultaneously upon the face, in these various regions. Upon the integument of the genitals, the disease may begin in the flat form, which, with little delay, becomes deeply infiltrated, and runs a comparatively rapid, fatal course; or it may slowly spread without infiltra-