ON THE QUESTION OF REPAIR BY PRIMARY OR SECONDARY ADHESION. 27 mospheric germs, and yet highly value means for purifying wound surfaces, will use antiseptic irrigation of the wound with a lotion of carbolic acid, 1 to 20; of thymol, 1 to 1000; of chloride of zinc, 20 grains to the ounce (originally used by Mr. C. de Morgan, many years ago); or of iodine, made by adding 20 drops of the tincture to the ounce of water. I have employed the iodine lotion for years, and prefer it to any other. It is always at hand, and is both simple and effectual as a wound cleanser. The lotion may be used warm, and it has the advantage of not only cleansing the wound in the fullest sense of the term—for iodine is an antiseptic—but it has a marked tendency to arrest all capillary bleeding or oozing. I use it in about the proportions given above, but the best practical guide is to pour the tincture into a basin full of water, so as to make the latter of a light sherry color. Arrest of Bleeding.—It is well that all hemorrhage should be effectually arrested by some of the various means which the surgeon has at his com- mand, before the edges of a wound are brought together; and it is wise to have even capillary oozing stopped, when it is possible, for blood effused in even limited quantities between the surfaces of an incised wound is to be regarded much in the light of a foreign body, and as forming an obstacle to repair, more particularly when primary union of the wound is to be sought for. Indeed, it was on this account that I was first led to employ, for cleans- ing wounds, the iodine water to which I have drawn attention, and which I cannot too strongly recommend for general adoption. A sponge wrung out of this lotion (made with hot water), and held to a wound for a minute, completely checks all oozing of blood, and tends more than anything else, except prolonged exposure to the atmosphere, to the formation of that glaze upon the surface of the wound, which so much conduces to satisfactory repair. On the Question of Repair by Primary or Secondary Adhesion. When the surgeon has cleansed the wound, removed what foreign bodies may have been present, and stopped all bleeding, he has to decide upon the means whereby the reparative process may be best helped, and, as a primary point, to determine either the feasibility or expediency of attempting to .ob- tain quick or primary union of the cut parts, or the wisdom of looking to their repair by the slower open, granulating process. When the wound is of the incised kind, the question is not difficult to answer; for it may with confidence be asserted that, with but few exceptions, in all wounds of this description, whether superficial or deep, accidental, or the result of operation, repair by quick or primary union is to be desired, and, what is more, may be expected, if the subject of the wound he healthy, and not too old, and if nature’s reparative process be so aided by surgical art as to be allowed to take its course without interference. The cleaner the cut is, the greater is the probability of its uniting by quick repair; the more ragged, contused, and lacerated the margins of the wound are, the less are the prospects of obtaining primary union, and the less the wisdom of making the attempt; between these two extremes are innumera- ble gradations. When there is a doubt about the wisdom of making the attempt to secure primary union, in deep contused and lacerated wounds, let the decision be against it, and when the doubt applies to the more superficial or hopeful class of wounds, let it be decided in its favor. Care must, however, be taken in these, as in all cases, to give up the at- tempt on the appearance of the slightest local or constitutional symptom, suggesting that, by the drawing together of the parts by sutures, etc., some