SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 636 within the cavity of the mouth. They begin to show themselves in the ma- jority of cases early in childhood, although they rarely attain any consider- able size until adult life. They are capable, when small, of spontaneous in- volution, leaving a purse-like fold or projection of the skin to mark their former seat; hut ordinarily they persist through life, continuing to increase in size indefinitely, or ultimately ceasing to grow. They give rise to no sub- jective symptoms, and are merely an inconvenience and deformity. The growth consists in its early stage of new connective-tissue cells, which seem to have their origin from the lower layers of the corium, or from the meshes about the fat-cells, and which have a jelly-like softness, hut gradually be- come firmer, until in old tumors they are found converted into firm bundles of fibres. They possess few vessels except at their base. In their anatomy, therefore, they are closely allied to Elephantiasis Arabum. Fibromata, how- ever numerous, have no effect upon the general economy, nor do they undergo malignant degeneration. They may develop even in great multitudes upon persons otherwise perfectly sound. Treatment.—Nothing can he done to arrest the development, or to cause the reabsorption, of fibrous molluscum by external or internal remedies. The only question is of removal by surgical means, and this is not called for except when the growths are very disfiguring, as upon the head, or incommodious from position or size. When small or appressed and crowded together, they may be scraped away with the sharp spoon or curette, but when of larger size, they must be excised, if their base is broad ; or they may be removed also, if they have a slender or peduncular attachment to the surface, by the galvano-cautery or by the ligature. No serious results follow such operations. Xanthoma. (Synonyms : Xanthelasma; Vitiligoidea ; Fibroma lipomatodes.) This is a peculiar condition of the skin, characterized by sharply defined patches or elevations of a yellowish color. Two varieties are recognized by dermatologists: Xanthoma planum and Xanthoma tuberosum, but they are not distinctly defined. The first, or flat form, occurs chiefly about the eyelids, in the shape of elongated patches, but slightly elevated above the general sur- face, varying in tint from a pale lemon to a brownish-orange, and in size from a minute point to an inch in length, and a quarter or half inch in width. The skin thus affected feels perfectly normal to the touch, or when pinched up, and its sensations are in no way changed. The surface is smooth and even. These patches occur most frequently upon the eyelids, or upon the nose near the inner canthus, but they may affect other portions of the face, such as the ear, or the neck and the mucous membrane within the mouth. The tubercular variety appears in the form of yellowish papules or nodules, of the size of a pin’s head, pea, or bean, or somewhat larger, sharply defined, and not projecting to any great extent above the general surface. These, too, are smooth and soft, and of the same color as the patches of the fiat form, with which indeed they sometimes occur simultaneously, or the flat variety may in rare instances develop into the tubercular. The most common seat of the latter is on the fingers and toes, the palms and soles, and the penis. It may occur upon any part of the body. Both forms begin insidiously, ip- crease very slowly, and last generally during life. They are rarely seen in childhood, and more commonly in women than in men. Of the causes of Xan- thoma, little or nothing is known. English writers-have associated it with a previous history of jaundice in the patient, but in the majority of cases no