THE EFFECTS OF COLD. (251) BY J. A. GRANT, M.D., M.R.C.P. Lokd., F.R.C.S. Edin., PHYSICIAN TO THE GENERAL PROTESTANT HOSPITAL, OTTAWA. Pernio or Chilblain. The sudden application of cold to any exposed part of the body, in a per- son whose constitution is already debilitated, is liable to be followed by the occurrence of Chilblains: this outcome is the direct effect of cold, in a minor degree, upon a languid circulation. A chilblain, in its mildest form, is attended by a moderate degree of redness in the skin of the affected part, a sensation of heat and itching, and more or less swelling, in proportion to the severity of the exposure. The degree of local irritation varies in different cases, which may, for the sake of convenience, be divided into three classes: (1) those in which there is simply a sensation of heat and itching, with a mode- rate amount of swelling—the whole affection disappearing almost sponta- neously ; (2) those cases in which the local swelling is very considerable, and is associated with marked redness of the parts, frequently assuming a bluish tinge, the result of local congestive action—the heat, pain, and itching, in these cases, are decidedly troublesome, although the final result is usually favorable; and (3) those which result from a more extended application of cold, and which, to a certain extent, approach the graver condition known as frost-bite. Small vesicles are seen to arise from the elevated and swollen tissues, and, undergoing rupture, leave exposed surfaces which frequently form sores difficult to heal. Such is not an unusual occurrence with the excoriations found on the hardened cutaneous surfaces of the foot [in which situation cold sometimes seems to act as an exciting cause leading to the development of the curious affection known as the “perforating ulcer”]. This third degree of chilblain was well described, many years ago, by Dr. Thomson,1 who says:— “ When the serum contained in the vesication is let out by a small opening, a portion of new cuticle is usually formed to supply the place of that which has been separated ; but when inflammation is severe, and the affection neglected or improperly treated, the parts which are the seat of vesication are liable to pass into the state of vitiated ulcers. In this state, they yield a thin, ichorous, or sanious discharge, and are in general brought only after a long time, and with much difficulty, to a healthy suppuration. In neglected cases, these ulcers not unfrequently become covered with foul sores, or sloughs. Ulceration often supervenes, and the parts covering the bones are destroyed.” Though sloughing and ulceration of the skin are frequently described as the result of ruptured chilblains, such consequences, in the cold climate of the Ottawa Valley, are seldom observed in either hospital or private practice; 1 Lectures on Inflammation, p. 638.