331 SYMPTOMS OF FIRST OR INCREASING STAGE OF GONORRHOEA. Acute Inflammatory Gonorrhoea of Male Urethra. Taking up the subject of gonorrhoea in the male, we may begin with a description of the acute inflammatory variety, which is the one most fre- quently encountered, particularly in those persons who are for the first time affected. The interval which elapses between exposure to irritation and the develop- ment of noticeable urethral symptoms, is a variable one, extending from a few hours to twelve or fourteen days. In the great majority of cases, however, the disease appears during the first week, and intelligent or observant patients usually discover indications of its presence within two or three days. Such persons will often tell you that they have experienced an obtrusive conscious- ness of the possession of a penis, an involuntary turning of the thoughts in that direction, a disposition to search or examine the organ, although no pain is felt, and no discharge can be seen. In a short time, however, one or the other of these symptoms makes its appearance, or they occur simultaneously. The patient notices a drop of milk-ancl-watery fluid at the meatus, which is slightly red and puffed or everted; a tickling sensation is often felt in this locality, and the next act of urination is attended with a feeling of warmth at the end of the canal, or with actual scalding. After this, the symptoms increase rapidly in number and severity, so that within forty-eight hours, or even sooner, the disease may be described as having gotten well into its first or “increasing” stage, the characteristic phenomena of which, with their respective causes, may be enumerated as follows:— Symptoms of First or Increasing Stage of Gonorrhoea. Changes in Meatus.—There are redness, eversion, and often erosion of the lips of the meatus ; sometimes, but rarely, so much swelling as to constitute a distinct* obstacle to the passage of the urine, which escapes only by drops. Ardor Urin/E.—Scalding at each act of urination, or ardor urince, is the symptom which gives the disease in French its popular name of chaude-pisse. This is due partly to the distension of the inflamed and swollen mucous folds of the urethra during the passage of the stream, but chiefly to the contact with the inflamed surface of the salts of the urine. That this latter is the principal cause, is shown by the favorable influence which diluent and alka- line diuretics have over this symptom, although they actually increase the size of the stream, and consequently the amount of distension. Chordee.—Painful erection, or chordee, is present to a greater or less extent in all such cases. It may occur at any time during the twenty-four hours, but is most frequent after the patient has become warm in bed. He is awakened or kept awake by an intractable, persistent priapism, which is associated with pain felt along the under surface, or often along the sides of the penis. In well-marked cases the organ is bent or curved, usually in a downward direction, more rarely upward or laterally. The corpus spongiosum, situated beneath and between the corpora cavernosa and surrounding the etc.—to urethral neuralgia, and assert that the malady is not in any sense a gonorrhoea. Jullien thinks, however, that it is not illogical to consider the mucous membrane of the urethra as affected, in such cases, by an inflammation analogous to that of cutaneous erysipelas, the pro- ducts of which in “ blennorrhagie seche” may be so slight as only to be detected by a careful examination of the urine. (Maladies Veneriennes, p. 35.)