728 POPLITEAL BURS,®. s Barwell, op. cit., p. 507. the swelling is of large size, these bursae sometimes occupy the centre of the popliteal space. When tensely filled by the effusion, the tumor is usually large, in one reported case measuring 5 inches in its long diameter, and 3.5 inches transversely. While the tumor is always tense in the extended position of the limb, it is less prominent, slightly elastic, and even occasionally fluctuating when the knee is slightly or perhaps semiflexed. When slightly flexed, in the event of the sac communicating with the joint, the fluid can be pressed into the inner por- tion of the articulation, which will bulge, although the patella may not be lifted from its normal position. When partially emptied, fluctuation can be detected, and the pulsation transmitted from the femoral artery, in one case reported by McEwen, ceased to be distensile, becoming merely heaving. Pres- sure upon the femoral artery and sac may possibly appear to slightly diminish the size of the tumor, but the passage of the fluid into the joint can then be detected. Pulsation and bruit are usually both present, the former often being of a distensile character. By more or less flexing the limb, the degree and character of this vary. When simply of a heaving character, the diagnosis is plain. Diagnosis.—As this is the only normal bursa in this region liable to be mistaken for aneurism, its differential diagnosis only, from that affection, need be considered. This must depend upon the character of the pulsation, bruit, etc. If the pulsation be simply heaving, the case will be clear enough. If dis- tensile, it will not be as energetic as that of a. thin-walled aneurism should be.1 While most distinct when the limb is fully extended, and when the patient is in the recumbent position, slight flexion will markedly diminish the pulsation, or cause its entire disappearance. This is almost pathognomonic. When so flexed, the tumor not uncommonly shows signs of fluctuation, and it in great part disappears.2 Such a position would not, in any way, much less in the manner indicated, appreciably affect an aneurism, since, although extreme flexion might empty it and arrest its pulsation, slight bending of the knee would merely render the pulsation more evident and more under control. Complete extension makes the bursal pulsation marked, but renders that of an aneurism slightly less evident. Pressure on the femoral above the bursa arrests the pulsation, but does not reduce the bulk of the tumor, unless in the rare case where pressure on the bursal sac at the same time empties part of its contents into the joint, which then becomes distended either locally or generally. Again this emptying of the sac is impossible in most instances, except in one certain position, usually that of slight flexion. An aneurism can be emptied in any position. In one recorded instance, where distensile pulsation occurred with emptying of the sac by pressure, besides the bulging of the knee-joint, the sac remained empty for some time, until the patient walked. This is in marked contradistinction to that rapid filling of a thin- walled aneurismal sac, pari passu with each pulsation, which is so readily distinguished by the eye. The bursal sac can also be emptied as easily without as with pressure on the vessel.3 The upright posture, in one case of McEwen’s, almost totally suspended the distensile character of the pulsation. Ho thrill has been observed in any reported instance, although having personally suf- fered from two enlarged bursae in this region, my attention was first called to the disease by a distinct thrilling sensation in the limb, which led me to feel in the popliteal space, where, much to my surprise, I discovered a tumor. Ho such symptom, however, was detectable by palpation, but the pulsation was distinct in the extended, although not in the semiflexed position of the limb. 1 McEwen, Glasgow Med. Journal, 1876, p. 468. 2 McEwen, loc. cit.