221 EFFECTS OF BURNS AND SCALDS. A scald, even if severe, may leave the cutaneous hairs uninjured, and thus a scald from hot water may often he diagnosticated from a burn ; yet in only moderately severe injuries can this test be made available, for the hair may be singed or destroyed by hot, dense liquids as well as by flame. Burns are usually more serious than scalds, and are apt to be followed by deep slough- ing; yet scalds, from the great extent of surface involved, are not uncom- monly fatal. Concentrated acids and caustic alkalies in solid or liquid form, act powerfully and energetically upon the soft tissues, and thus give rise to burns of the most serious character. Unfortunately, many of these accidents occur at a time when the manipulator is stooping over the chemicals, which, either by explosion or by splashing are brought in contact with the neck, face, eyes, and hands, these being the parts usually most exposed. Phosphorus acts powerfully, causing rapid and deep inflammation of the tissues, and fatal results have attended its improper and careless handling. A young man, while journeying on a railway, lit a parlor match by scratching it with his thumb nail. A piece of the incandescent phosphorus penetrated under the nail, and made a slight burn, to which, at the time, he paid little attention. After the lapse of an hour, the pain became intense, and the thumb, hand, and forearm, in rapid succes- sion, became greatly inflamed and enormously swollen. A few hours later, symptoms of gangrene were observed, and death ensued in twenty-seven hours after the reception of the burn. The skin, when it has been extensively injured (as in women whose clothes have taken fire), often exhibits burns of all degrees and presents a curiously varied and mottled appearance. When the tissues are burned in the third degree, the eschars are hard and dry, vary in color from ashen-gray to black, and are insensitive to touch; if the skin is only partially destroyed, pressure is exquisitely painful. The line dividing the injured from the uninjured skin is often difficult to determine and is very irregular. The odor of the burned tissues is characteristic and unmistakable. It is not possible, immediately after the occurrence of the accident, to determine how far the subcutaneous tissue has been injured, for the surface appearances are nearly the same when the muscles or the deeper parts or even the bones have been involved. Islands of uninjured skin often exist, contrasting strongly with the sur- rounding injured tissue, which is highly congested and presents a mottled red color, frequently traversed by an immense number of radiating vessels which are blocked by sudden coagulation of the blood. It is usual to find the upper part of the legs, the thighs, and the lower part of the abdomen and chest involved where the clothes have taken fire ; the ankles, feet, hands, and forearms are often simply blistered, the latter being usually burned in the patient’s attempts to get rid of the fire ; the neck and face, on the other hand, are commonly severely burned, as they are enveloped by the ascending flames. Surface burns from lightning stroke present about the same appearances as burns from other sources; the skin is reddened and blistered, and the hair is often singed or entirely destroyed. A peculiarity, not infrequently seen in burns from lightning, consists in the detached or separated character of the burns, caused most likely by the electric fluid being conducted from place to place by portions of steel, iron, or other metals which are so often found in the clothing, especially in the case of females. Concentrated acids and caustic alkalies which destroy the dermic tissues, act, as already mentioned, powerfully and rapidly: they give rise to burns which, from the absence of vesication and of other symptoms found when there has been contact with fire, may readily be distinguished by their ap- pearance from burns produced by flame. In these cases inflammation is