VAGINITIS. 395 Females already affected with leucorrhoea sometimes develop a vaginitis after protracted exertion, and this is said to be particularly true of sewing girls who use the treadle of the sewing-machine for many hours daily, it may result from an extension upwards of a vulvitis, although the reverse is met with quite as often. Children and young girls are especially subject to inflammation of the vagina, which is sometimes found as a complication of dentition or of the eruptive fevers, and sometimes as a sequel of the first approaches of the male. In countries where early marriages are customary, it is not uncommon to hear of cases in which the husband has been wrong- fully suspected of disease, on account of the occurrence of a “ gonorrhoea” in the wife during the first few weeks of married life. Soon after puberty, the parts being small, the vulvo-vaginal outlet contracted, the mucous membrane tender, the orgasm and accompanying congestion very complete, the condi- tions are all favorable to the development of inflammatory troubles. It is for these reasons, as well as on account of their neglect of hygienic precau- tions, that young prostitutes are notoriously the most dangerous. Dr. Matthews Duncan1 describes diphtheritic, erysipelatous, ulcerous, and pustular forms of vaginitis. Exclusive of these varieties, he divides cases of vaginitis into two classes, (a) local, under which head he places those cases due to gonorrhcea, to violent sexual approaches, as in early marriage, to the introduction or use of pessaries, etc.; and (b) constitutional, in which, he says, there exists some predisposition, such as old age, alcoholism, lupus, diabetes, etc. The same writer, after considering the usual varie- ties of gonorrhoea in women, makes the following very judicious remarks upon the pos- sible recognition of the cause in any given case of vaginitis:— “ Is it, in any special case, venereal or not venereal? You will, in practice, often be asked this question, and I advise you never to answer it explicitly. You cannot decide absolutely whether a case is venereal or not. At one time it was supposed that the dis- covery of trichomonads, or a leptothrix, or a vibrio, would decide whether it was vene- real or not. But this is now given up. I have seen gonorrhoea which was certainly not venereal bear every character of tbe ordinary venereal disease. I do not say that there is no distinction, but only that the distinction cannot be made out by the practi- tioner so as to justify him, from his own inquiries into a case, in giving a decided opinion on the subject. Meantime, the distinctions of venereal gonorrhoea are simply marks of severity. It has been said that venereal gonorrhoea is infectious,' while simple gonor- rhoea is not; but I have seen every character that can be predicated of the one occur in the other, as I said before, including infection. “ What are the characters that make you suspect that a vaginitis is of venereal ori- gin ? It begins within a few days—generally two or three—of the infection ; it is very severe, and runs an acute course ; the secretion of pus is copious, beginning about the third day of the inflammation, and remaining copious for about a week or nine days. The vulva is generally affected, so that the woman has more or less difficulty in walk- ing ; and the vulva being affected, the inguinal glands are liable to be affected, and you may even have bubo. The urethra is affected, and also the bladder; there is liability to ovaritis and to perioophoritis ; and there is the almost certain infection, not only by sexual intercourse, but by the matter touching any mucous surface, such as that of the eye.” Vaginitis, which is apt to be of a leucorrhceal character, sometimes occurs in the early stages of syphilis, as a result of the extension of inflammation front mucous patches seated upon the vulva, or of changes which take place in the os uteri. The neck of the uterus frequently undergoes certain altera- tions in the secondary stages of syphilis, which may be the medium of pro- pagating inflammation to the vagina. According to Cornil:2— “ Quite frequently mucous patches, at first with an epithelial covering, afterwards eroded, appear upon the os uteri, one or two in number, or forming groups. The parts 1 Medical Times and Gazette, June 26, 1880. 2 Op. cit., p. 153.