TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 269 abscesses used often to be serious, the same ratio of improvement which has been secured in so many other departments of practice may be claimed in the present instance, and the experience of recent years seems to warrant the be- lief that the means are now within our reach by which former sources of danger may to a great extent be set aside. While, however, interference is generally advisable, the time for resorting to it must be very carefully chosen. The risk of complications in a case of psoas abscess, for instance, turns largely on the character of the spinal disease with which it is connected. If abscess makes its appearance while the spinal disease is still acute, and accompanied by pain, rise of temperature, wasting, or increasing deformity, evacuation should generally be postponed, and the patient be kept at absolute rest, until the more acute symptoms have subsided. But when it occurs late in a case of chronic disease, or when the patient has been long recumbent, and all acute symptoms have passed away—when, that is to say, vascular disturbance has subsided in the surrounding parts, and the wall of the abscess has become consolidated and firm—the danger of interference is comparatively small. Acute abscesses are best evacuated by direct incision. It is important, both for safety’s sake and also to secure ready drainage, that the opening be made where matter lies nearest to the surface. This may be ascertained either by observing where fluctuation is most distinct, or where pointing is most evi- dent ; or, where these signs are wanting—and it has been explained above that this will often be the case—by searching for the “soft spot” or the “ten- der spot,” or the spot on the surface which most easily “pits on pressure.” The precise pattern of the knife to be employed, though often much insisted on, is not very material, provided that it be sharp-pointed, keen-edged, and narrow, and tapered in the blade, so that it may enter with the smallest pos- sible resistance. A knife, like a razor, cuts better if it be first immersed in hot water. The method that causes least pain is to pass the knife in at nearly a right angle to the surface, with a light and rapid movement, and to enlarge the puncture by withdrawing the blade, held obliquely, so as to divide the tissues with a light sweep from within outwards. When abscess is deeply placed, or is in the neighborhood of important structures, as in the neck, armpit, groin, or popliteal space, Hilton’s method should be used. An inci- sion is made through the skin and fascia, and a director is gently thrust through the intervening parts till matter is reached, and is seen to well-up along the groove in the director. Narrow-bladed dressing forceps are then passed by the side of the director into the abscess cavity, the director is ve- moved, and the blades of the forceps are separated as they are withdrawn, so as to provide a sufficiently free opening. When abscess has formed beneath a healthy muscle, as, for instance, when suppuration occurs in the bursa be- tween the gluteus maximus and the great trochanter, the incision made through the muscular substance for the evacuation of pus is apt to heal so that free discharge is interfered with. To prevent this, some form of drain- age tube must be inserted, and kept in use till the abscess cavity has closed. Unless this precaution is taken, extensive burrowing is likely to ensue. The aspirator of Dieulafoy may be turned to excellent account in the man- agement of abscess. But there are certain points respecting it which should be borne in mind. In its best, that is, its simplest form, the instrument con- sists of a glass bottle, to act as a receiver, fitted with an india-rubber cork. Through this cork there is passed, so as to enter the bottle for about an inch, a metallic tube, the external part of which ends in two branches, furnished with stopcocks. To one of these branches an exhausting syringe is connected by means of a short piece of india-rubber tubing. To the other, a hollow needle—also mounted on india-rubber tubing—is adapted. A tubular needle, sharp by being cut obliquely at the point, somewhat like a quill-pen, may