560 SYPHILIS. matous eczema; and I have in several instances met with cases where a diagnosis was at first impossible, and was only arrived at after holding the patient for some time under observation, the simplest local remedies being used, and the development of the case being carefully watched. Of course the syphilitic eruption, were it such, would be apt to go on from bad to worse, and to be accompanied by other symptoms, while the eczematous eruption would either get well under the simple local treatment, or would develop some characteristic signs, such as weeping, papulation, vesication, etc. The 'papular syphiloderm is not unfrequently met with in connection with the erythematous form of the disease. It is sometimes the first eruption to be observed. The lesions are large and small, flat papules, with a dull-red, afterwards a coppery, color, and a smooth surface. Occasionally they may exfoliate to some extent, especially upon the palms. Sometimes a number of papules fuse together, and form a patch of a dull-red color, much thickened and occasionally scaly. Such patches may occur, covering the entire foot or hand, or a portion of the thigh (as in Plate XIV. Fig. 1). When they are seated about the anus or genitalia, the heat and moisture of the parts, with the frequent maceration in urine and fecal discharges to which infants are subject, conduce to the formation of mucous papules. These skin lesions, which are among the commonest of hereditary infantile syphilis, are quite characteristic. At times they tend to condylomatous outgrowth, and may resemble the simple acuminate condylomata of infants from which they are to be carefully differentiated. The chief distinctive feature of syphilitic condylomata in infants is that the acuminate excrescence springs from a previously existing papule, similar ones usually being visible in the immediate neighborhood. There is also usually a certain amount of extremely fetid discharge of a characteristic odor, in syphilitic condyloma acuminatum, while in the simple condyloma this is not so marked a feature. When the papules are situated about the mouth or at the commissure of the lips, they are usually moist, and in this position are the most frequent carriers of contagion to the nurse, in nursing, and to other children, or adults, in kissing. It is hardly necessary to say that the moist papule in the infant, as in the adult, is one of the most frequent mediums by which syphilis is propagated. The abominable habit,prevalent in this country and perhaps in others, of submitting infants to the caresses of every chance comer, is responsible for many cases of mysteriously contracted disease; and it seems to me a part of the duty of the family physician to warn mothers of the dangers thus incurred. When the papule occurs in the commissure of the lips, it leaves in healing slight linear or radiating scars, which may subsequently aid in the diagnosis of previously existent syphilis.1 The vesicular syphiloclerm is a very rare affection, sometimes resembling vesicular eczema to a certain degree. It generally occurs in connection with other lesions, pustular, bullar, etc. The vesicles are usually distinct, seated upon firm infiltrated or papular bases, and show no inclination to coalesce, though they sometimes tend to involve the deeper layers of the skin. The pustular syphiloderm may occur before the eighth week, in children profoundly affected with syphilis, but usually shows itself at a later period. According to the severity or mildness of the disease, the pustules are large, numerous, and deep; or small, few, and superficial. The lesions are com- monly most abundantly met with on the thighs, buttocks, and face, although 1 I regard this as a more certain testimony of previously existing syphilitic disease than the so-called “ Hutchinson’s teeth,” to he presently described, because it is not likely to be con- founded with any other cicatrix. I do not know of any affection capable of leaving such traces.