547 SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Vigo, or emplastrum aramoniaci cum hydrargyro, with which I have some- times advantageously combined graduated compression by means of the rubber bandage. Large blisters subsequently dressed with mercurial ointment are useful. In cases where considerable effusion has taken place, aspiratory punc- ture is recommended by Jullien. Syphilis of the Bursal Keyes, of New York,1 designates as tertiary bursitis a late lesion which is apt to follow after injury. The bursae of the knee are most apt to be involved, and the affection is very often double. The lesion is essentially a gummatous proliferation in the thickened parietes of the serous sacs. The affection begins insidiously, and is usually unaccompanied by pain, sometimes lasting thus for months, when a blow or a fall brings on acute inflammation, the lesion takes on new action, and extensive ulcei-ation may take place. The “ mixed treatment” rapidly heals these lesions, without a scar if they are of the superficial variety, but with a cicatrix if deep ulcerative action has taken place.2 Syphilis of the Nervous System. The greater part of our knowledge of the syphilitic affections of the ner- vous system is of recent date, and has been acquired within the last twenty years. In 1859, the Academy of Medicine of Paris offered the subject of “Nervous affections due to the syphilitic diathesis” for competition. In re- sponse, three remarkable monographs,3 which marked an epoch in the prog- ress of this branch of medicine, made their appearance, and are still to be re- ferred to with advantage on account of the valuable clinical material which they contain. Ever since that time the medical press has been sending out papers, monographs, volumes even, on nervous syphilis, in constantly in- creasing numbers, until the literature of the subject has become extremely voluminous. It is obviously impossible, within the limits of the present article, to give an extended account of the various lesions and symptoms of syphilis of the nervous system. The utmost which can be accomplished is to give a general idea of the subject, and to refer the student to original sources for further information. Syphilitic nervous affections may be developed as early as the sixth month,4 1 Syphilis as affecting the Bursae (with a wood-cut). Am. Jour. Med. Sci., 1876. s The following monographs and papers on syphilis of the bones, articulations, and bursae, may be referred to for further information. “Improved Forms of Artificial Noses’’ (Brit. Med. Jour. 1868); Sigmund, Zur ortlichen Behandlung syphilitsclien Mund, Nasen und Raclien Affectionen (Centralblatt, 1870, S. 653); Hutchinson, Syphilitic Caries of the Cranium with Abscess of the Brain (Lancet, Dec. 14, 1872); Cuffer, Fracture presque spontanee du femur droit consecutive a un Osteo-sarcome chez une Syphilitique (Bull, et Mem. de la Soc. Anat., Fev. 1874); “ Dental Sy- philis” (Lancet, vol. i. p. 674, 1876); R. W. Taylor, Bone Syphilis in Children, New York, 1876; Richet. Memoire sur les Tumeurs Blanches (Mem. de l’Acad. de Med., t. xvii, 1853); R. \V. Taylor, Two Cases of Syphilitic Synovitis of the Knee (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., April, 1871); Verneuil, Lesions Syphilitiques Tertiaires des Bourses Sous-cutanees et Tendineuses (Gaz. Hebd., 1873); Moreau, Affections Syphilitiques des Bourses Sereuses (These de Paris, 1870); Weil, Syphilitisclie Gelenkrankheiten (Centralbl. f. Cliir. 1877, S. 329); Wigglesworth, Cases of Dactylitis Syphilitica (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., 1872, No. 21). * Gros et •Lancereaux, Des Affections Nerveuses Syphilitiques. Paris, 1861 ; Lagneau fils, Maladies Syphilitiques du Systeme Nerveux. Paris, 1860; Zambaco, Des Affections Nerveuses Syphilitiques. Paris, 1861. 4 See Fournier, Lemons sur la Syphilis, 2e ed., for a full clinical description of the earliest nervous disturbances of syphilis.