152 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. it may or may not be necessary to amputate, according to the general condition of the patient and the particu- lar bone that is diseased. If the general state is good, and the affected bone not absolutely required for sup- port, excision may very properly be substituted, unless it be apparent that the result can only be an useless limb. Even in such a case as that reported by Cutter, in which, after a primary excision of the head of the humerus and a small portion of the shaft, the remainder of the humerus and the elbow-joint were removed by a secondary operation—notwithstanding that it was de- clared two years later that the limb hung pendulous and useless—still, if the man was able after steadying the forearm to satisfactorily use his fingers, he was certainly better oft' than if there had been a disarticulation at the shoulder. In many of the cases of chronic osteo- myelitis of the bone or bones of a stump, reamputation in contiguity is unnecessary, it being sufficient to fully expose the end of the bone, and forcibly pull out the sequestrum. (4) When there is severe secondary hemorrhage from an eroded vessel, or from a ruptured traumatic aneu- rism. (5) When traumatic gangrene has supervened. The development of tetanus may also be deemed an indica- tion for amputation. In cases of gunshot injury other than those involving the bones and joints, amputation may be rendered necessary by the large extent of the laceration, by the injury of the great vessels or nerves, or by the complication of gangrene or tetanus. When evidently necessary by reason of the locality and extent of the injury, amputation should be resorted to as soon as shock has been sufficiently re- covered from, before the development of inflammation, which may show itself some hours, or not for several days, after the receipt of the wound—ordinarily in not less than eight nor more than twenty-four hours. Even at the hip, Otis’s observations “ do not sanction the conclusion that ablation of the thigh is an exception to the general rule requiring amputations that are indispensa- ble to be done immediately.” These primary operations are much less fatal than those which are performed during the period of active inflammation1— the so-called intermediary operations—when indeed no avoidable surgical interference of any kind should be permitted. With the subsidence of acute inflammatory symptoms, and the thorough establishment of suppuration—in from ten to thirty days, according to circumstances—begins the period of secondary amputations, the mortality of which is between that of the primary and intermediary. As in removal of limbs on account of the ordinary in- juries of civil life, no more should be taken away than is absolutely neces- sary; but as a gunshot injury generally damages parts at a considerable distance above the point struck, the place of operation must be selected accordingly. An amputation in contiguity should always be preferred to one higher up, if the condition of the soft parts will permit; for instance, through 1 In nearly ten thousand (9891) primary amputations in military surgery tabulated by Ash- liurst, the mortality rate was 37.6 per cent., while that of 3775 late operations was 43.3 per cent., and a large proportion of these were undoubtedly secondary. (See Vol. I., page 629.) Fig. 258. Necrosed lower part of hu- merus, with parts of radius and uluaremoved by excision. (Cutter.)