GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 189 Pericardial injuries are much less dangerous than heart wounds: four out of the seven cases in Fischer’s table ended in recovery. Treatment—The treatment of penetrating wounds of the chest depends upon the size of the vulnerating body; upon whether lodgment within the cavity has or has not taken place; and upon the complications that may he early or late developed. When the missile is small—and such it is likely to be in that large pro- portion of cases treated in civil practice in which the injury is produced by a pistol ball—if the shot has passed through and can be felt lodged under the skin, it should be removed, but should otherwise not be searched for. In wounds by large bullets, or by a fowling-piece charge at short range, the track of the wound should be explored by the finger, and any foreign bodies that are discovered (lead, buttons, clothing, bone fragments), removed. If, as is likely to be the case, the ball has passed beyond the point which can be reached by the finger, shall any probing be done? Hot with a metallic in- strument. An elastic bougie, or a gum catheter, may very properly be used, if guided by intelligence and judgment; since if the lodged substance can be found and removed, either through the wound or through a counter- opening, the patient’s mind will be put much at ease, and the after local mischief will probably be much less. But the chances of finding the ball, except when it is very superficially located, are not great—much less than the possibilities of doing harm; so that here, as in head injuries, it is, as a rule, safer and wiser for all except the most experienced to rest content with the knowledge acquired by digital exploration, that penetration has probably taken place, and to let the foreign body remain, trusting that it will either become encysted or be spontaneously expelled through the air passages or the oesophagus, or that it will be brought near to the suiface by suppuration so as to be easily removed when the abscess is opened, or extracted through a sinus. If at any time during the progress of the case, the bullet can be dis- covered free at the bottom of the pleural sac, it should be taken out, either through an existing opening or through one specially made in the posterior part of one of the lower intercostal spaces. Hemorrhage from an intercostal artery is to be arrested, as already stated, by plugging ; and if from the internal mammary, by ligation—direct, if pos- sible ; if not, higher up, in the second, third, or fourth intercostal space. This operation was twice employed during our war, though unsuccessfully; but pressure and styptics were equally unavailing in saving life in the four cases in which they were tried. The bleeding from this vessel then when it does occur, which is not often, is to be regarded as a very serious matter. When the hemorrhage, though from neither of the above-mentioned arteries, is yet profuse, it should if possible be checked by rest, by the application of cold, and by the administration of ergot—preferably hypodermically ; the patient meanwhile should be placed in such a position that the blood will flow off through the wound. Pressure upon, and closure of, the external opening will often be found of great service, but “ hermetically sealing,” after the method of Howard, has proved to be far from advantageous. Effusion of blood into the pleural sac, whether from an internal or an external source, if of limited amount, is usually absorbed without difficulty, with relief of the primary symptoms, shock, pain, and dyspnoea. When the extravasation is large, death may take place quickly from the hemorrhage and lung compression, or more slowly from empyema, or, the bleeding having been arrested by the pressure of the clot, absorption may follow, the lung may expand, and the patient may recover. In all of these cases, absolute rest must be enjoined, and cold, opium, and ergot should be employed according to circumstances. The external opening may be closed in order that by compression further