ANTISEPTIC AND ASEPTIC SURGERY. 67 etc.; the ferment increases in quantity, and the fermentation takes a con- siderable time to be completed; it is evidently a vital phenomenon. These facts of themselves would surely lead to the conclusion that the particles which give rise to micro-organisms, and those which cause fermentation, are one and the same; that in fact fermentation is the result of the growth of micro-organisms in fermentescible materials. Numerous facts show that this is so, but into the consideration of these I need not enter. It is now universally admitted that the alcoholic fermentation is due to the growth of the yeast-cell in the sugary solution, and that the formation of vinegar is due to the growth of the so-called “Vinegar plant.” Numerous simi- lar facts have "been demonstrated with regard to other fermentations. The formation of numerous pigments on boiled potatoes and other suitable soil, is due to the growth of forms of micrococci and bacilli; and the same is true of blue milk, blue pus, etc. Pasteur has brought forward remarkably inte- resting facts with regard to the butyric fermentation. Mr. Lister has abso- lutely" demonstrated that the lactic fermentation of milk is due to the growth of a special form of bacterium in the milk.1 Numerous experiments have also been performed which demonstrate that the putrefactive fermentation is no exception to the general law, and that it also is due to the growth of micro- organisms. Antiseptic and Aseptic Surgery. Since, then, the fermentation of the discharges of wounds is due to the growth in them of micro-organisms, which bodies come from the outer world, it is evident that surgery which acts against the causes of fermentation, that is, Antiseptic Surgery, may be carried out in various ways. It is not merely confined to the exclusion of organisms, but it may work by permitting their entrance, and neutralizing their power afterwards. This is the most common way in which antiseptics are employed at the present time. They are added to the discharge, and their usefulness depends on the extent to which they interfere with the growth and fermenting power of the micro-organisms which have entered the discharge, without at the same time being hurtful to the wound. The latter is an important point, and it is for this reason that car- bolic acid is one of the least satisfactory antiseptics when employed in this way. For it irritates the wound, thereby giving rise to increased discharge; while, on the other hand, it requires to be present in large amount, in albu- minous materials, in order to arrest or materially interfere with fermentation. The former effect of carbolic acid defeats the latter aim, and thus, where car- bolic acid has not been used aseptically, that is, with the view and with the result of excluding micro-organisms from wounds altogether, it has been found to be inefficient, and by no means a satisfactory application. The free drainage of wounds is also an antiseptic method, for by it the discharge is carried away from wounds before micro-organisms have time to develop in it, or to alter it to any extent. At the same time, it is a method liable to fail if anything interferes with the drainage, for as the causes of fermentation are constantly present, they develop, if for any reason the discharge collects in the wound. Among the most important antiseptic measures is treatment by irrigation, or by the water bath. In treatment by irrigation, the discharge is not merely permitted to flow away, but it is washed away as fast as it forms, and thus there is less chance of development of micro-organisms than where free drainage alone is employed. The antiseptic virtues of this method are much increased by using an antiseptic lotion for irrigation. Treatment by the water 1 Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, 1878.