495 PAPULAR SYPHILODERM. sexes about the anus, and in the infant about the umbilicus. This variety of the moist papule is most liable to hypertrophy and the formation of vegeta- tions, of which mention will be made hereafter. A second variety of the moist papule occurring on the muco-cutaneous surfaces, consists in a superficial ulceration without a true papular formation, denuding the epithelium merely, and looking like a superficial desquamation or denudation rather than the serious lesion which, in fact, it is. This variety is commonly mgt with in women, upon the vulva, and is occasionally observed to become more indurated and take on a papular character, or to ulcerate, or finally to become covered with a diphtheritic membrane. Moist papules when seated upon the commissures of the lips, between the roots of the fingers, etc., often assume the form of fissures. On the vulva they are, when numerous, not infrequently accompanied by a sort of firm oedema wThich persists even after they have been cured. When moist papules secrete abundantly, they often give rise to severe itching, and now and then even to inflammatory reaction with pain.1 Vegetating Papules.—Instead of being fiat, the moist papule may take on hypertrophic action resulting in the formation of luxuriant warty or papillary growths, when the lesions are entitled vegetating papules. The lesions assume an elevated, more or less circumscribed, warty character, re- sembling the raspberry or cauliflower formation. Between the papillary growths there may be slight ulceration accompanied with offensive secretion, which, drying, forms yellowish or brownish crusts. This condition is most prone to occur on the face, scalp, about the shoulders, and near the genitals (Duhring). It is on no account to be confounded with the acuminated or “ venereal” wart, which will be described in the following Article. The secretion of the vegetating syphiloderm is contagious; not that it produces vegetations in others than its bearer, but that it carries the syphilitic contagion. The secretion of the vegetating papule will, in other words, pro- duce a chancre when inoculated upon a healthy person. Although not auto-inoculable, yet the lesions are usually found grouped, and often multiply greatly in the regions favorable to their growth, that is, in those localities where heat and moisture are present with the irritating secretions of other lesions. Want of cleanliness is an important factor in the causation of these lesions. They are usually amenable to local and hygienic treatment employed in addition to the ordinary constitutional measures. (See Local Treatment of Syphilis.) The Papulo-squamous Syphiloderm.2—The ordinary papular syphiloderm frequently takes on a scaly character, presenting certain peculiarities which require its separate description. It presents different appearances as it occurs in one locality or another, and according to the arrangement of the lesions. These may be scattered and isolated, or they may be grouped or joined together in diffused patches. They are generally flattened, and are covered with a dry, grayish, adherent scale. This is usually scanty as compared with the scales in psoriasis, which this form of the syphiloderm otherwise closely resembles. If the scales are removed, the papules beneath are seen to be 1 For a table showing the comparative frequency of these lesions, see page 508. 2 This is the aifection formerly and very erroneously oalled “syphilitic psoriasis,” a term which used to give rise to much confusion. While the etiology of psoriasis is still unknown, it is quite certain that it is not due to syphilis. The question has been thoroughly discussed and settled by Duhring (Ditferential Diagnosis between Psoriasis and Syphiloderma Squamosum, Phila. Med. Times, vol. iv., 1873—4 ; and So-called Psoriasis Syphilitica, ibid.), and the term syphi- litic psoriasis is no longer used by dermatologists.