DISSECTION-WOUNDS. 87 prostration of strength, and profuse and fetid sweating. The tongue, at first coated with a dirty fur, becomes dry and brown, and the teeth are covered with sordes. During the accessions of fever, the temperature runs very high, and the pulse is extremely rapid. Sometimes the patient seems to succumb to the general systemic poisoning before there is time for definite lesions of internal organs to occur; but if the progress is less hurried, there may be a supervention of pleurisy or pneumonia of a low type, readily running into suppuration. Death may result either from prostration by the poison ; or from deterioration in the quality of the blood, affecting the brain-functions; or from intercurrent inflammation of the lungs or pleurie, or perhaps of the heart; or from secondary exhaustion. When recovery takes place, it is very slow, and resembles that from typhoid or other low fevers, being apt to be retarded by abscesses and other local disorders. Moreover, there is often stiffening and contraction of the finger which was the seat of the primary inflammation. For a time there may be also, when sloughing has been exten- sive, some impairment of motion in the parts concerned; but this is gradu- ally done away with by time and the stretching incident to exercise. From this brief sketch, it may be seen that the graver cases of this sort can scarcely be excelled in severity by those of any other known disease. And the analogy which they present to eases of phlegmonous erysipelas, as well as of pyeemia and septicaemia, is obvious. At the present day, the recognition of the fact that the condition is one requiring, not depletion, but the most active and energetic supporting measures, has led to a more judicious treatment, and it is only in extremely rare cases that the symptoms are not arrested before they assume the threatening character above described. But still, whether from previously-existing disease, as, for example, of the kidneys, or from fatigue or exposure, at the time or subsequently, the onset of the disorder is occasionally very violent, and the most prompt, energetic, and skilful inter- ference may be of little avail. For obvious reasons, the post-mortem investigation of disease of this kind is both difficult and dangerous; and we have but little knowledge of its pathology. The tissues of the limb affected are apt to be disorganized by diffuse suppuration, veins and lymphatics being alike involved, while the internal organs present inflammations of varying extent and intensity; but the sequence of the morbid conditions, even in the light of the most careful observation during life, cannot be unravelled. That the lymphatic systenl plays an important part seems unquestionable. Allusion has already been made to the occurrence of poisoning of this kind from other causes than dissections. Thus surgeons sometimes sustain injury by scratching or pricking their fingers in the performance of operations, and symptoms analogous to those already described may ensue. Perhaps the most frequent source of injury of this kind is contact with rough points or edges of dead bone, as well as with pus, especially of an unhealthy or foul charac- ter. Carelessness in cleaning and handling instruments may also give rise to poisoned wounds. But in all these cases, the matters which act as poisons are practically dead. I saw, in 1865, a child aged 22 months, who had been vaccinated by a woman living in the neighborhood, and who had diffuse suppuration, with sloughing of the areolar tissue, from beneath the scapula to the crista ilii. Death ensued in a day or two, and an autopsy was made; but the disorganization was so great that the exact sequence of lesions could not be determined. I believe, however, that this case was one of blood- poisoning by the use of a dirty lancet. Another case of blood-poisoning by vaccination came under my notice in 1869, in which the disease assumed the form of erythema fugax. The vaccination had been per-