FURUNCLE OR BOIL. 315 be typical of inflammation accompanied with suppuration ; “ sore as a boil” seems to convey, through general experience, accurate information of this peculiar and distressing sensation. The hardness of the tissue around about, which produces so much pain and heat, is due to the rapidity with which the exudation occurs. After the opening has taken place, the pain, which is throb- bing, and especially severe in consequence of the density of the tissue, rapidly subsides; this is due to the relief obtained from pressure. The edge of the opening develops, however, an extraordinary tenderness to touch. The part below has undergone the gangrenous process, and the resiliency of the distended tissue presses upon the slough, which becomes gradually extruded through the opening. The slough has been thought by no less an authority than Rokitansky to be merely an exudate, but this opinion may be put down as decidedly erroneous. It is composed of connective tissue, filled with fibrin and pus. It occasionally happens that an inflammation begins in the skin, which re- sembles the one just described in its early stages, except that it goes on slowly and does not suppurate. This is known in common language as a “ blind boil,” and is probably an inflammation at the same point, but of low degree, and capable of undergoing resolution. The form that the skin takes on in the ordinary boil is that of a cone, and the opening is at its apex. In this respect it differs from the carbuncle, which even in its early stage is spread out and somewhat flattened, though the latter peculiarity is more marked after the disease is fully developed. I have elsewhere stated a disbelief in the doctrine which regards these two conditions—furuncle and carbuncle—as identical, and as differing only in degree. The constitutional symptoms are slight, unless there he a great number of boils upon the person at the same time, a condition of rare occurrence. There is a slight appreciable febrile movement, hardly to he measured by rise of temperature or increased frequency of pulse, but recognized by the ner- vous system in producing a little languor. Boils sometimes appear in great numbers upon the same person, but usually not at the same time. Individuals develop what may be termed a “ furuncular diathesis,” so that they will be scarcely free from the existence of these painful torments for months and years. In such persons we recognize a depravation of the fluids, hut chem- istry has not thus far taught us in what this consists. The condition which predisposes to boils is often connected with a special change of habits; the more violent the alteration of diet and regimen, the more likely are boils to occur. I have several times been able to connect a very large use of sugar with the eruption of these painful inflammations. The evidence of this was found in their cessation when this special regimen was abandoned. Causes of Furuncle.—Like carbuncles, and, indeed, all other inflamma- tions, variations of climate and special years will be accompanied with greater or less manifestations of the disease. But there are local causes which every practising surgeon must have recognized. The application of poultices, and especially the covering of surfaces with cold water lotions kept up for a considerable time, are apt to be accompanied with an eruption of boils. These are also seen to rise up in numbers upon a surface that has been blistered by cantharides, and the author has frequently been a victim to their painful presence upon his hands after dealing with sloughing tissue. Boils occur over the surface of the body in a more general manner than carbuncles. They seem to come upon parts that are specially fretted; hence, one of the most favorite places for their appearance is upon the nates. In common with car- buncle, however, they seem to have a tendency to appear upon the nape of the neck. This may be attributed to the constant fretting of this part of the