GONORRIICEA. 376 often reported by patients as having been cured by homoeopathic treatment, the negative character of which leaves free play to that vis medicatrix natures, which is really all that is required. Treatment of Chronic Gonorrhoea.—In other cases, particularly when the attack is the first one, the discharge persists, creamy or yellowish in appearance, associated with a few mild subjective symptoms, indicative of localized inflammation which proves to he easily warmed up into a state of activity; in other words, we have the condition which it will be convenient to designate as chronic gonorrhoea. To determine this beyond question, a bulbous bougie, three or four sizes smaller than the normal calibre of the urethra, should he gently inserted into the bladder, the surgeon noting as it goes in the exact situation of any point of unusual sensitiveness, and looking even more carefully for this or other similar points during its with- drawal. He must not be misled by the normal sensitiveness of the prostatic urethra, which almost invariably resents the introduction of an instrument for the first time. He should look at the shoulder of the bulb, and observe whether it brings out any discharge, and if so, notice its character. If the symptoms and appearances which have been described as characteristic of chronic gonorrhoea are present, it may be assumed that the sensitive spot corresponds to a small patch of granular urethritis to which it is necessary directly to apply appropriate remedies. For this purpose, the patient should be ordered a prostatic syringe of hard rubber, having a long curved nozzle with a bulbous tip. He should be instructed in what manner and to what depth Prostatic syringe. to insert this instrument, and the surgeon should himself administer the first two injections. For this it is well to use about one fluidrachm of a solution of nitrate of silver, of the strength of half a grain or a grain to the fluidounce of distilled water, or if this does not give rise to pain on the first injection, in still stronger solution. The discharge and pain may be increased for a short time after these injections, which should then be followed by gradually strengthened solutions of sulphate of zinc, tannin, or sulphate of copper, carried to the exact spot in the same manner. If the discharge diminishes, but does not disappear, the same process may be repeated, and this will almost invariably result in permanent cure. It should never be forgotten that in certain cases, especially in those in which a history of frequent or prolonged attacks of gonorrhoea emphasizes the probability that some narrowing of the urethra exists, we may have the progress of the injection backwards cut off by spasmodic contraction of some of the circular muscular fibres surrounding the urethra, particularly that aggregation of those fibres which is called the compressor urethrae muscle, and which encircles the membranous portion of the canal, situated between the two layers of the triangular ligament. This, or a similar contraction, often so firm as absolutely to prevent the entrance of instruments however skilfully handled, will also in some cases, occurring as soon as the first drops of the injection reach the locality, effectually prevent the liquid from passing an}-'