(83) POISONED WOUNDS. BY JOHN H. PACKARD, M.D., SUKGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL AND TO ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. Under ordinary circumstances, if a healthy person sustains a wound of the skin, whether incised, lacerated, punctured, or gunshot, the tendency is toward repair of the local damage, without any other constitutional disturbance than may be due to the severity of the injury. By the older writers this was at- tributed to what they called the vis medicatrix natures, or healing power of nature, an expression which was objectionable, as implying an external force. It is more philosophical to say that healthy action is the law of being of living organisms, and of all their parts ; and that they tend to return to this, if disturbed by any cause, as soon as that cause ceases to act. But if, either at the time of infliction of the wound, or at some later date, before the healing has occurred, a poison is applied to the abnormally ex- posed tissues, there is superadded to the violence sustained, an irritation, which may not only change the local condition, but affect more or less pro- foundly the whole organism. The poisons which so act, and with which we are now concerned, are almost without exception of animal origin, and some of them would seem to be actually organized. Of their real nature, however, very little is known as yet, and the mode in which they produce their effects cannot be clearly explained. We can only describe the symptoms to which they give rise, and suggest theories as to the pathological conditions involved. There are three ways in which poison applied to a wound (either at the time of its infliction or subsequently) may be supposed to affect the system at large: (1) Through the nervous system; (2) By absorption into the lymph current; (3) By absorption into the venous blood current. Yery probably these are often combined in the same case; and it may be that in no single instance does even the slightest poisoned wound occur—such, for example, as a mos- quito sting—without an irritation of the nerves of the part, and the taking up of an amount, infinitesimal as it may be, of the poison, not only by the lymphatics but also by the veins. Perhaps it should be stated that the evi- dence as regards venous absorption is less positive than that of absorption by the lymphatics, since the cases in which the former seems to have taken place are in many instances open to another explanation, viz., that the poison was conveyed into the venous system through the lymph-channels. Thus there are many cases in which the extension of inflammation along the lines of the lymphatics is quite clear; there are none in which equally distinct proof is afforded that the veins alone are so affected. But these points will be fur- ther referred to. Certain conditions of system seem to favor the occurrence of poisoning in wounds. Such are depression, from fatigue or exposure ; previous disease •