299 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. little elevated, the tongue reddened, and anorexia constant; but neither bowels nor stomach are disordered at tirst. Soon, however, the pulse be- comes more frequent and small, the skin dry, and the prostration great; the bowels are sometimes loose, but generally not disordered, and the face wears a pallid and dusky hue. The progress of these symptoms increases, until the patient sinks into a state of apathy. This is a description of a fatal case running its course in a few days. Be- sides these symptoms, the fetor is strong and peculiar, and when once observed is easily recognized. Treatment.—The treatment of hospital gangrene is essentially local, for although cases recover without special local treatment, when the constitution is strong, and favored by good sanitary conditions, the chief reliance must be placed upon the destruction of the poison in the tissue affected. To accom- plish this end, caustics of various kinds may be used, and although these will destroy tissues still living, the system finds no difficulty in throwing off such sloughs, while it rapidly improves. This circumstance alone, is good evidence of the contagiousness of this spe- cial disease, for although by these measures we create gangrene on the spot, it loses its power of extension by the destruction of the poison. A great variety of agents have been employed to effect this end. In English practice, the actual and potential cautery, as well as nitric acid, have been favorites. In our own country, also, almost every form of caustic has been employed, but that which has afforded the most general satisfaction is bromine. Its cauterizing properties, however, are so mild that it can hardly he classed as a caustic. Disinfectants have also been extensively used, but to little purpose in their direct therapeutical results ; they are, however, valuable for hygienic purposes. Many surgeons in the employment of escharotics have failed to find the benefit which they have produced in the hands of others. This may be explained by the different methods of application. The author, for instance, has seen bromine employed upon the surface of these gangrenous sores, with no benefit whatever; but when it has been used in a thorough and peculiar manner, immediate and rapid relief has been obtained. Failure has thus usually been due to the imperfect and inefficient method of applying the remedy. Bromine, first brought to the attention of the profession by Dr. Goldsmith, possesses the property not only of being somewhat caustic, but also of chang- ing from the liquid to the gaseous condition. If, therefore, rightly applied, it has a power of penetration possessed by scarcely any other substance. If the gangrene, for instance, affects the skin and the areolar tissue, no applica- tion upon the surface, unless it can destroy the slough itself, can reach the point of propagation. This is the border of the living tissue. In order to arrive at this, it is necessary that it should be cut, which, perhaps, is best done by etherizing the patient, and then dividing the areolar tissue with a pair of scissors beyond the line of the slough, so that the bromine can be introduced between it and the living part. The peculiar quality possessed by this fluid caustic, of sinking into water without readily mixing with it, enables us to control it with great ease. The sloughs having been dissected oft’, the bromine can be brought to the surface of the still living tissue, as well as thoroughly mixed with the gangrenous pulp on its surface. The method practised by Dr. Goldsmith, of thrusting the point of a small syringe into the bromine at the bottom of a vessel containing water, enables the surgeon to fill his instrument with the drug in its pure state. The nozzle of the syringe can be readily passed into all the nooks and corners of the sloughing wound. The injection of bromine by this method fills the whole pulpy mass, which is