EXTRA-GENITAL CHANCRES. 465 Chancres are also met with on the gums, the gingivo-labial surface of the tongue, the velum palati, the tonsils, and the pharynx, the sore in each locality presenting certain characteristic features. Chancre of the tongue is usually situated on the top of this organ, and presents a peculiar opaline surface, which may cause it to be mistaken for a mucous patch. Chancre of the tongue may become phagedsenic and be transformed into a large ulcer. One such case has been cited by Jullien. Chancre of the tonsil is very rare, and its exist- ence even has been disputed. The lesions, as described, are never sharply defined. They are dark-red, superficially ulcerated nodules, which secrete a scanty fluid. The history of the case, the subacute course of the nodules, the absence of inflammatory symptoms, and the enlargement of the cervical and submaxillary ganglia, would be the points upon which to rely in arriving at a diagnosis. Pliagedyena is a rare complication of the buccal chancre wher- ever found. Anal and Rectal Chancre.—Chancre of the anus is much commoner among women than among men. In the former, it is probably, as a general thing, communicated by accidental contact in normal sexual intercourse, while in men the existence of chancre of the anus gives just cause for sus- picion of unnatural abuse, though it is possible that it may be contracted by contact with the finger, etc. French statistics show that in men 1 chancre in 119 is anal, while in women 1 in 12 is seated in this locality. Statistics are wanting for this country, but my impression is that anal chancre among men is of the rarest. The usual seat of anal chancre is in the folds of the anal mucous membrane. These being put upon the stretch, the lesion may be dis- covered in the form of an elongated reddish ulcer. Occasionally, however, the chancre is minimal in size, a small, excoriated papule. Row and then it is large, cup-shaped, and excavated, with a well-marked, Indurated base. Intra- anal chancre is generally of the fissured form. Rectal chancre is very rare, and can scarcely occur except as the result of unnatural intercourse. Anal chancre is usually indolent, very rarely exciting reflex spasm. This is a very important diagnostic sign, since simple fissures are usually accompanied by severe pain. In the lowest classes of women the anal chancre is sometimes “ mixed.” A not very infrequent complication is that of vegetations, which sometimes occur to a quite considerable size. Stricture of the rectum is rarely, if ever, the result of chancre. So-called chancral strictures are usually due to gummatous or other late syphilitic lesions. . Indurated engorgement of the external inguinal glands is a usual accompaniment of anal chancre; it appears early, and is usually bi-lateral. Chancre of the Mammary Region.—Chancre of the breast is one of the most important among extra-genital chancres. Although it may be contracted by contact with the mouth or even the genitals of another adult, it is by far the most frequently met with as the result of contagion from mucous patches on the lips of nursing infants.1 This fact is of importance from a medico-legal point of view, and the characteristics of this lesion should therefore be borne in mind. When seated outside of the nipple, mammary chancre can be diagnosticated without difficulty. It shows itself as an erosion, or an eroded papule of some size, with or without a crust, roundish or ovalish, and resting upon an indu- rated base (Plate IX. Fig. 6). When, however, mammary chancre affects • According to “ Colies’s law,” which will be explained on a subsequent page in treating of the hereditary transmission of syphilis, the mother of an infant the subject of hereditary syphilis cannot contract the disease from her offspring. VOL. II.—30