44 WOUNDS. For my own part, whenever I seal a wound with the hope of securing a good result by allowing the parts to heal quietly as in a subcutaneous or closed wound, I never do more than seal it with lint soaked with blood or friar’s-balsam, and I take good care to leave the parts otherwise well ex- posed to observation, in order that I may, if warned by the appearance of any local symptom, such as swelling, heat, or pain, or of any general symp- tom, such as increase of temperature, or fever, remove the scab, real or artificial, and give free vent to the pent-up fluid. I moreover never apply the practice to any other than a very clean and recent wound. As a general mode of practice, this method of treatment by occlusion is not to he advocated; in exceptional cases, it may be employed, but then only with extreme caution. In most deep and complicated wounds, it should be rejected. It is only applicable in the very earliest treatment of wounds. Open Treatment op Wounds. (Treatment by Exposure.)—This method was first systematically carried out by a Vienna surgeon, named Vincenz von Kern, in the beginning of this century, and more recently by Bartscher and Vezin, in 1856, and by Burow, in 1866. These German surgeons "were led to adopt this mode of treatment by careful observation of the healing process in wounds, and more particularly of the bad results which followed the ordinary methods of dressing by occlusion as then employed in Continental towns, by the use of bandages, charpie, lint, etc. The latter system of dress- ing wounds, or what has been described as the “ smothering method” in which no air could get in, or fluid get out, gave way to the former or “ open method,” in which the free access of air was the main end sought for, and drainage the second. The success which attended this practice was moreover considerable, since Bartscher and Vezin had only three deaths out of thirty amputations, and Burow three out of ninety-four. The method, nevertheless, did not make headway, and it does not seem to have been followed as a rule of practice by any surgeons except Mr. Teale, of Leeds ; Professor Humphry, of Cambridge ; Dr. R. W. Kronlein, of Zurich ; and some members of the Surgical Society of Moscow. The former surgeons in 1858 and 1860, and the latter in 1872, and the Moscow Surgical Society in 1877, have given their respective experiences and conclusions in regard to this method of dressing. [Prof. J. R. Wood’s “■open method” of treating stumps, may also be considered as a modification of this mode of practice.] Von Kern’s practice consisted in freely exposing the wounded surfaces to the air, and simply keeping the edges of the wound in position by means of sponges. Vezin employed no means for uniting wounds. Burow used sutures, but in such a way that they could be readily loosened in case of dis- tension. Humphry, in 1860, wrote:— “ It is well known that wounds of the face commonly heal up, in their whole length, by first intention. This is due, in great measure, to the vital qualities of the parts, and in some degree also, I apprehend, to the fact that they are usually exposed to the air, their edges being held in contact merely by sutures. For some years we have adopted this plan after amputations and all, or nearly all, other operations. The in- teguments are united by sutures placed at intervals of about an inch, and the wound, as well as the adjacent surface, is left quite exposed to the air; no plaster, bandage, or dressing of any kind, being placed upon it All the irritation, the galling pressure, the retention of heat, and other inconveniences resulting from band- ages and plasters, are thus avoided. The edge of the wound and the surrounding skin being uncovered, the eye can take cognizance of what is going on ; and we can cut a stitch here and there, when required, can keep the part clean, or take other measures without difficulty. Forasmuch as no dressings are applied, there are none to be re-