WOUNDS. 26 ous outside influences as would interfere with the healing act. Provision moreover will have to be made for eflicient drainage, that is, for the free exit of such sanguineous or serous fluids as are commonly exuded after severe wounds or operations, and the retention of which always proves injurious. Upon each and all of these points a few lines may not be without value. Cleansing Wounds.—After full examination of a wounded part, and clear knowledge as to the mode of its production, the extent of injury, and the requirements of the case for cure, the wound should be cleansed. This should he effected with all completeness and gentleness, since, on the one hand, every- thing like a foreign body between the lips of a wound would of necessity prevent quick or primary union, and would in all probability prove injurious to the subsequent progress of the case, while, on the other hand, anything like roughness would be detrimental to the already injured part. To effect this cleansing with gentleness, a stream of water, medicated with some anti- septic, is the best means for the surgeon to employ, and this stream may be brought to bear upon the part by using the irrigating bottle (Fig. 208), or the Fig. 208. irrigating apparatus (Fig. 209). The stream of fluid washes away blood, with all light foreign matter, and what cannot be thus washed away may be removed with fingers or forceps. In gunshot Fig. 209. wounds, special forceps and other Ward carriage with irrigating apparatus for cleansing wounds. instruments may be required. Those who believe atmospheric germs to be the chief cause of in- flammation and suppuration, or of most, if not all, the ills to which wounded flesh is heir, will employ the means that are supposed to be capable of destroying such malig- nant foreign visitors, and for this purpose will use the spray of carbolic acid, one part in forty, or other antiseptic, to kill the germs in the air as they approach the wound, and will dress the wound with the carbolic lotion, carbolic gauze, pro- tective, and waterproofing, accord- ing to the directions laid down in the Article on the “ Antiseptic Method of Treating Wounds,-” whereas those who disregard at-