209 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Fig. 300. escape, though the line of direction of the shot apparently passes directly through them. Bullets, even of large size, occasionally traverse the popliteal space from side to side, without damaging either the hamstring tendons or the underlying vessels. Deep, penetrating or perforating wounds of the upper and posterior part of the leg are very likely to injure one or both tibial arteries, and, as a consequence, such flesh wounds, even when made by small pistol-balls, must be viewed with much solicitude. Whether the thigh or leg vessels are primarily torn or contused, but particularly when damaged in the latter way, their injury is very apt to be followed by secondary bleeding or gangrene, which, as Lidell has put it, “destroys more patients than all the forms of hemor- rhage taken together, battle-field hemorrhage ex- cepted.” The principal nerves of the limb are not seldom wounded, their injuries being followed by the ordinary results of severe nerve-lesions, and in addition, when the sciatic has been divided, at times by gangrene. As has already been mentioned, wound of this nerve was declared by Wyatt to be the special cause of gangrene foudrogante, a complication, however, by no means limited to the lower extremity, and not rarely found associated with visceral disease, particularly of the kidney. In some cases the lesion is not confined to the extremity, but involves also the pelvis or abdomen; frequently a bullet passes through both limbs, and, when it does so high up, the genital organs may be injured at the same time. If there be no serious complication present, the shot-track may be expected to heal in due time; but if the ball has pierced the fascia lata, or the dense aponeurosis of the antero-external part of the leg, it will often be found that, in healing, the fascial opening does not close, and that hernia of the muscle is conse- quently permitted. Disabling cicatricial deformities are very likely to follow, if there has been any considerable loss of substance, and more or less impairment of motion often results from muscular adhesions. Gunshot Fractures.—When the shot has caused bone injury, the lesion, though occasionally a contusion, is, in the great majority of cases, a fracture, and very rarely of the simple variety. When the missile has struck the lower end of the femur, or, much oftener, the upper end of the tibia, it may penetrate or perforate without splint- ering. Such a wound was not seldom witnessed in former times, when the round ball was used, but is only exceptionally produced by the modern conoidal bullet, even if of small size. In all such cases observed by Becher, during the Franco-German war, the vulnerating body was a Chassepot bullet. It is possible, but not very probable, that though a shot passing through an articular extremity at the knee may extensively com- minute the bone, there may be no apparent change of shape produced, extravasated blood temporarily cementing the fragments together. Lodg- VOL. II.—14 Gunshot laceration of right femoral vein. (A. M. M., Spec. 2094.) Fig. 301. Partially consolidated gunshot fracture of left femur. (A. M. M., Spec. 798.)