702 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSA!. tion of the disease is usually from seven to eight days, but recurrences are common, and it may eventuate in the chronic form. Chronic Form.—This is much more common than the former, and is pecu- liar to the secondary period. Its course is markedly slow, and symmetry of the lesions is common. The local symptoms are the same as in any other chronic bursal enlargement, except that melon-seed bodies have never as yet been observed. The duration of the disease is from seven to ten months. The effusion will decrease to again return without assignable cause. M. Fournier has pointed out that an abortive form is occasionally seen; an attentive exa- mination of such cases shows, he says, (1) That the pain has a definite site, peculiar, and very circumscribed. (2) That this site corresponds to the course of a tendon. (3) That pressure at this point gives rise to a more or less acute pain. (4) That the pain manifests itself during either active or passive movements. Diagnosis.—Syphilitic bursal diseases occur most frequently during the ter- tiary period, and although occasionally seen during secondary syphilis, their recognition must depend on a careful consideration of the various diagnostic points—of which I give the following abstract, condensed from Fournier— since often no incontestable sign of syphilis can be detected. (1) The history of a primary lesion. (2) The comparative frequency with which such diseases occur in syphilitics, espe- cially in women. (3) The association of bursal troubles with other secondary manifestations, or with gummata in the tertiary period. (4) Symmetry of the lesions, although this is not at all absolute. (5) The presence perhaps of undoubted syphilitic lesions elsewhere. (6) The development of the disease contemporaneously with other lesions, and sub- ject to the general evolution of the diathesis. (7) The absence of any other assignable cause. (8) The failure of ordinary measures, and the prompt response to specific treatment. The onset of Biese affections is insidious, and they pursue a chronic course. The symptoms oiten intermit, above all the pain and the effusion, when this exists. There are also distinct nocturnal exacerbations of the pain. Treatment.—To a general course of antisyphilitic remedies, local treat- ment, such as compression and the use of blisters, should be added. By such means the disease is readily relieved. Gummata of Bursa:.—Chouet reports a case where such a condition existed in the sheaths of the peroneal muscles, and coexisted with a marked serous effusion (hydropisie) of the common extensors. Gummata occur much more frequently than the forms of syphilitic bursitis already adverted to. They present no symptoms which are peculiar, pursuing the course of other gummata, with tlie three stages of formation, softening, and, unless prevented by treatment, ulceration. Their general characteristics are distinct circumscription, slow growth, slight sensibility to pressure ; no spontaneous pain, except in rare instances, and then only when irritated; and, late in the disease, close adhesion to the subjacent bone, etc., and to the superimposed skin, which is of a dull red, coppery, or violaceous color; the glands do not become engorged. Diagnosis.—This, in the clearest cases, is dependent upon the satisfactory recognition of symptoms drawn from three different sources, viz., a syphilitic history; the intrinsic characters of the disease; and the effect of specific treatment. (1) Of course the proof of its nature afforded by microscopic examination of the disease is wanting. In all cases thus far reported, there has been either a distinct history of a previous primary sore, or one of various more or less