SYMPTOMS AND COMPLICATIONS OF THIRD STAGE. 341 weeks, rarely longer, and during which the acute symptoms of the first stage, the ardor urinse, chordee, etc., remain, as has been said, nearly or quite unaltered. At the termination of this stage that of subsidence begins, and in uncom- plicated cases progresses rapidly until complete recovery has taken place. Symptoms and Complications of Third Stage, or that of Subsidence. Urination becomes painless and less frequent; the discharge grows thinner, becomes watery and scanty, or dries up altogether; erections no longer occur with abnormal frequency, and do not give rise to eurvation of the penis or to pain. If any of the complications which have been described has existed, the last vestiges of it fade away, and perfect health is restored. But until this stage is actually completed, as long as any of the symptoms of urethritis are still evident, there are yet certain dangers to be avoided, and serious difficulties which may present themselves. Epididymitis.—Chief among these, in respect to frequency of occurrence, is epididymitis, or swelled testicle, which is a complication usually super- vening in the fifth or sixth week of the disease, sometimes coming much earlier, and rarely as late as the end of the second month, or even in the third month. In the great majority of instances it is obviously the result of the extension of the urethral inflammation along the ejaculatory ducts and spermatic canal to the epididymis itself.1 In others this connection between the original inflammation and the epididymitis is not apparent, and various theories have been adduced to explain the phenomenon.2 The sympathy existing between the various portions of the genito-urinary system, metas- tasis, reflex nervous agency, and other hypotheses, are all unsatisfactory, and, as it seems to me, unnecessary. The absence of conclusive post-mortem or clinical proof that the vas deferens is the medium of transmission in almost every case is readily understood when we remember, on the one hand, that the deaths which occur during this stage are from intercurrent diseases, and are very rare, and, on the other hand, that it is not at all uncommon for inflammation to travel rapidly, leaving behind it no foot-prints, over extensive mucous surfaces.3 If the disease were metastatic in its origin, or the result of “ sympathy” or of reflex irritation, it is difficult to see why it should stop at the epididy- mis, which is an excretory duct and a comparatively unessential part of the testicle, and should spare the secretory portion of that gland. The early symptoms usually indicate more or less clearly the course of the disease, and, indeed, the clinical evidence, and the period at which the affection develops 1 M.Terrillon asserts (Le Progres Medical, Jan. 29, 1881) that in swelled testicle the inflamma- tion is principally in the cellular tissue around the epididymis, rather than in that organ itself. 2 Dr. Otis, in a clinical lecture on epididymitis (Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, No%, 28, 1878), after calling attention to its association witli strictures of large calibre, adds : “ Such strictures are capable of producing recurring epididymitis of every grade, from that which causes slight swelling and tenderness to the most acute form of the trouble. My own observa- tion leads me to believe that the lighter forms of trouble, such as chronic sensitiveness and occasional slight swelling, also various grades of hydrocele, are the result of reflex irritation transmitted from a point of stricture, and that the attacks of acute epididymitis are due to the extension of the inflammation—the urethritis associated with stricture—along the track of the vas deferens, as in epididymitis accompanying ordinary gonorrhoea.” 3 In 1871, MM. Gombault and Terrillon made an autopsy in the case of a young man, aged 19, who died of an intercurrent disease during an attack of gonorrhoea. They found the vas defe- rens, in its entire extent, filled with the products of catarrhal inflammation, red, swollen, and injected ; no epididymitis had yet developed.