109 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE ANKLE. treatment can be more satisfactorily carried out. Of twelve such cases, tabu- lated by Gurlt, only three died (25 per cent.). It would appear from the in- vestigations of the writer just quoted (though his conclusions are based upon only 28 cases), that if the patient does not die, he will probably recover with an useful limb—the “ end-result” of this excision being better than that of any other except the hip. But while, prior to 1876, under any one of the three methods of treatment, gunshot wounds of the knee, in time of war, resulted fatally in more than two-thirds of the cases, the reports that have been given of the recent attempts at conservation, under antiseptic treatment, would seem to indicate that the mortality can he very much lessened. Of Reyher’s eighteen cases, antiseptically treated from the first, only three died (16.66 per cent.), and twelve of these which were treated by occlusion, all recovered, each with a movable joint. Of his 40 cases which were only secondarily rendered antiseptic, 34 died (85 per cent.). Of Berg- mann’s fifteen cases treated early, but one died (6.66 per cent.); of his fifty-nine cases in all, only 24 died (44.5 per cent.); and of the thirty that recovered, twenty-eight pre- served their limbs.1 Of four non-military cases treated at Ilalle, all got well, and in three there was good motion of the knee (Kraske). Even very considerable splintering has not prevented rapid recovery with preservation of the function of the joint. Uidess future and extended experience shall show that such favorable results are but exceptional, knee-joint wounds hereafter must be treated conservatively and antiseptically, if the extent of the injury he not so great as to necessitate immediate amputation; for it would certainly seem as if Reyher was right in declaring that “ under primary antiseptic treatment, the injury loses its danger for life and limb of the patient. The prognosis is better, and to this must be added the assurance with which a prognosis can be made.” Fig. 269. Diagram of gunshot wound of tibia with fissure entering knee-joint. (Kraske.) Gunshot Injuries of the Ankle. As in wounds of the other joints, so in those of the ankle, the articulation may or may not be opened. The periarticular injuries, which usually involve the parts behind the joint—seldom those in front—not infrequently cause severe hemorrhage, primary or secondary; may be associated with lesion of the posterior tibial nerve; and are often followed by stiffness of the ankle from cicatricial contractions, and by deviations of the foot from shortenin cr of tendons, the result of loss of substance or of inflammatory adhesions. The 1 Bergmann’s dressing was from necessity quite a simple one : “As soon as possible after the wound had been inflicted, the vicinity of the spot where the shot had penetrated was cleansed then the whole limb was wrapped in a thick layer of antiseptic cotton-wool, the latter firmly pressed down by means of an elastic bandage, and the whole, including the ankle and hip-joint, embedded in plaster of Paris, and allowed to remain undisturbed for a fortnight or more. In some cases the first application of this dressing sufficed to effect the healing of the cutaneous wound.”