675 DIFFUSED SIMPLE CELLULITIS. wall of a capillary vessel. As in other inflammations, the chlorides and phos- phates are in excess. A large amount of lymph and serum is also present. At a later period collections of pus are scattered through the inflamed part, and shreds of necrotic tissue are interspersed with the various exudates. There is always more or less febrile disturbance during the progress of the disease. Its extent varies with the amount of tissue involved in the inflam- matory action. The temperature rises from one to three degrees. The pulse is increased in rapidity, rarely rising, however, above one hundred and ten, except in very nervous persons, when it may reach one hundred and twenty or one hundred and thirty beats per minute. The tongue is coated with a whitish fur in the early stages, but afterwards may assume a brownish color, especially if the patient’s power of resistance be feeble, or if there be much suppuration going on. There are some headache and pain in the back, and the bowels are usually constipated. Chills are present when pus forms. In the subacute or chronic form of simple cellulitis there are no consti- tutional disturbances of any importance. Neither is there any special amount of pain, except when the involved limb is moved, or when pressure is made. The tissue is hard, dense, and roughened, and there is more discoloration of the integument than there is in the acute form. , Diagnosis.—Cellulitis simplex is readily diagnosed from p>hlegmonous ery- sipelas by the absence of the purplish redness and of the burning, throbbing pain, which characterize the latter affection. In cellulitis simplex there is, as a rule, comparatively slight fever, and the general distress is much less, in every way. In phlegmonous erysipelas the febrile symptoms are of a much graver type, and in the latter also there are constitutional symptoms before the local manifestations, while in simple cellulitis the local symptoms always precede the constitutional. Cellulitis maligna is readily distinguished from cellulitis simplex by the very rapid extension of the inflammatory action, the great tumefaction of the diseased limb, the accompanying lymphangeitis and lymphadenitis, and the exceedingly grave constitutional disturbance which attends it, and by recurring to the fact that malignant cellulitis follows the introduction of some septic material into the circulation. Treatment.—This should be both local and constitutional. A mild mercu- rial or .saline purgative is necessary at the onset, to produce a complete evacua- tion of the intestinal canal. The cathartic should be followed by large doses of quinine (twenty to forty grains daily) for three or four days, unless there is some special contraindication to its use, in the shape of an irritable stomach or headache. In such cases, ordinary tonic doses may be given with safety. This drug is often effective in cutting short the inflammatory action, and in limiting the extent of the suppurative processes. When the use of quinia is un- desirable, and the fever is of a low type, beef-tea and wine will be found an effi- cient substitute. If the temperature runs high, the tincture of aconite in minute doses (one-fifteenth of a drop), repeated every half hour, may he given with benefit. When suppuration has commenced and the fever has subsided to some extent, the muriated tincture of iron should be administered in large doses. It may be given combined with the tonic doses of quinia. Opiates are not advisable unless there is great restlessness and inability to sleep, and even in such cases, alcohol in some form at bedtime is preferable. Spong- ing the surface of the body with tepid water and alcohol, with gentle friction of the affected limb, some distance from the seat of inflammation, will often relieve the pain and restlessness and promote sleep, without the assistance of any drug.