BURSITIS. 697 gelatinous fluid. Such cases must not be confounded with the solid syphilitic variety of bursitis which will be treated of under its appropriate caption. The pathology of the non-syphilitic cases is very simple. The effused lymph after a time becomes organized as in chronic inflammations of other serous membranes, thus becoming an integral part of the sac wall. Re- curring irritation now sets up inflammation of a low grade, both in the normal sac wall and in the pseudo-membranous lining. This results in the effusion of inflammatory products, not only upon the free surface of the old false membrane, but into its substance. In both situations the effusion be- comes organized, thus increasing the thickness of the primary false mem- brane, and adding a new layer upon its free surface which, on further irrita- tion, will itself inflame, thicken, and lay the foundation for a fresh pseudo- membrane. Repetitions of these processes will at last result in almost com- plete obliteration of the bursal cavity. Thus it will be seen that the thickened laminated sac wall is, of necessity, only sparsely supplied with bloodvessels, which plainly shows that in such a bloodless condition of parts no absorption of fluid can possibly take place, and that to effect a cure no grade of inflammation will avail, however excited, short of that which will induce suppuration, that is, the formation of a vascular granulation tissue, ultimately causing obliteration of the cavity. Much thickened, solidified tumors are apt, if injured, from their feeble blood supply, especially in persons of syphilitic or broken-down constitution, to become gangrenous and slough out en masse. Cognizant of this fact, we should be cautious in attempting to excite a curative degree of inflammation, lest it pass sanative bounds and end in a spreading cellulitis. Microscopically, the thickened walls consist of fibrillated connective tissue, which in parts is hyaline, having imbedded “the characteristic mother and daughter cells of cartilage.”1 Developed as the cyst-Avall originally is, from connective tissue, no surprise need be felt that its inflammatory products should go on to the formation of any one of the connective-tissue class of neoplasms, or undergo characteristic degenerations. Thus calcification, ossification, out- growths of fibro-cartilage, etc., have been observed. Treatment.—Where the thickening of the bursal walls is not excessive, the use of the seton, after a preliminary tapping of the cyst and evacuation of the melon-seed bodies, is probably the best plan to pursue. Galvano-puncture has been recommended. Barvvell advises that a tenotome should be intro- duced obliquely under the skin, when the bursal walls should be as freely divided as possible, scarified, and the contents evacuated through the incision. This, followed by pressure, is quite as safe as the seton, and in most cases as effectual.2 If the walls are very much thickened, giving the impression of an almost solid growth, they should be carefully dissected out whenever their anatomi- cal relations are not such as to forbid it. The plan pursued by Volkmann offers advantages where, as in certain chronic enlargements of the pre-patellar bursa, the growth encroaches on those aspects of the joint at which the cover- ings are so thin as seriously to endanger it in the delicate and prolonged dis- section requisite. Under the antiseptic spray, he splits the bursa open, excises an elliptical portion of the wall, removes the melon-seed bodies, and with some dull instrument scrapes away the softer portions of the thickened cyst-wall. The cavity is then carefully washed out with a five-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid, and two thick pads of carbolized gauze are firmly 1 Trans, of the Path. Society of Philadelphia, vol. v. p. 227, 1874-75. 2 Such methods are, of course, only applicable when the bursa does not communicate with a joint.