274 ABSCESSES. irritation has told why they would not heal. Of these troublesome cases, fis- tuke opening on the face, in the neighborhood of the alveolar part of the jaws, and depending on necrosed fangs of teeth hidden by the gum, furnish many instances. Laying open is a method that is often called for, e. g., in sinuses in the groin, and fistula-in-ano. After the canal, together with any branches that may have formed, has been completely laid open, lint, or some like material, is intro- duced between the surfaces, so that healing may take place from the bottom by granulation. In examples of old callous sinuses, it is sometimes advisable, after the canal has been laid open, to carry an incision through its opposite Avail into healthy tissues beyond, or to destroy the indurated internal surface by scraping, or by the application of caustic. When the condition of the patient or his tear of a cutting operation renders laying open by incision unadvisable, the plan of dividing the tissues between the fistula and the surface by passing a thread through the canal, and gradually tightening it, may he resorted to. The method, however, is tedious, and except in a few instances, has fallen into disuse. [The elastic ligature is more rapid in its action than the simple thread, and may be sometimes employed with much advantage.] Free drainage is called for in a \Tariety of cases, hut especially in those in which pus collects in loose cellular tissue below the level of the outlet, or at a long distance from it; or in the stroma of a large gland, as the breast, in which burrowing readily occurs. The red-rubber tubes, now so largely em- ployed in the management of wounds, are the most convenient agents; the decalcified bone tubes are too quickly melted; and the spiral wire tubes that have been recommended, while in no respect bet- ter than the rubber tubes, are more expensive, more troublesome to introduce, and the source of more suffering to the patient. The tube may he either passed down into the main cavity [by means of a forked probe, as shown in Fig. 310], or be carried on to some further point at which a counter open- ing in a dependent situation has been made. The counter opening is often essential, e. g., in wide burrowing beneath the fascia lata, or near large joints, or (though more rarely) in diffuse abscess in the breast or side of the neck. [It is, in some cases, advantageous to pass a tarred rope, or mesh of oakum smeared with resin cerate, through the sinus, thus at the same time securing drainage and applying a stimulating dressing.] jRest must be secured, ivhen the sinus is so placed that it is affected by movement, or disturbed by the contraction of neighbor- ing muscles. Many sinuses in the groin, the breast, or the armpit, and many that are connected with the sheaths of tendons, will not heal until complete rest is secured, either by horizontal posture, or by confinement of the part itself on a splint, or by careful bandaging. Pressure is sometimes efficacious in recent fistulte, or sinuses that are super- ficial, and Avhere the structures can be uniformly pressed against some firm surface; as in the breast, where pressure can be made against the thorax, or in the forearm, or head, or in stumps after amputation; but if pressure be not uniform, it will be hurtful rather than beneficial. Injections are useful in cases of old and deep or tortuous sinuses, leading into abscess-cavities containing degenerate pus, and so placed, as in the case Fig. 310.