THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 224 whole cutaneous surface, and brought in peril the life of the patient. Let me particu- larize some of the striking or curious features : I have seen a number of cases where only the forehead and eyes were involved. In these instances, the patients, while boating, having shade hats, and having the lower parts of their faces muffled in veils, were well protected from the direct rays of the sun, and were only exposed for a short time to the reflection of the sun’s rays from the smooth water. The result was that after a period of about twenty-four hours or less, varying with the delicacy of the skin, the exposed portion of the face became red, with pain and a burning sensation, which symptoms were soon followed by swelling of the exposed part. In one case, the hair being arranged in crimps, the skin protected by the wavy ringlets escaped, and the forehead presented a most fantastic appearance from the intermingling of the red and swollen with the normal skin. In some of these cases the eyelids escaped, apparently from the lids being raised and constantly folded back, and therefore not exposed. In two cases the lids were so swollen that, at the end of forty-eight hours after exposui-e, it was almost impossible for the patients to uncover the pupillary opening, or to see any objects excepting those in front and below. In one instance the ocular conjunctiva became greatly swollen, with a few small spots of ecchymosis; in this case I had no reason to believe that either a foreign body or the wind caused the conjunctivitis, and the affection seemed to be due wholly to the sun’s rays, as other parts of the face had suffered from the same cause. “ These were certainly not cases of erysipelas, and the symptoms indicated no febrile or constitutional disturbance. Another very striking case of sunburn was from ex- posure of the forearms while rowing. The striking features of this case were the apparent involvement of the muscles, or the intermuscular septa of connective tissue, and of the tendons, or their burs®, at the annular ligament of the wrist. The patient came to me on account of the severity of the sunburn of the skin, which was so painful as to prevent sleep, and I had the opportunity to observe the development of the symptoms in connection with the muscular tissue. The skin of the dorsal surface of the forearms was completely blistered from the elbow to the knuckles; the vesicles, or rather one large vesicle, as I may almost call it, were filled abundantly with clear serum, which afterward became cloudy and opaque, and at some parts purulent. At first the pain was of a burning character, and confined to the surface ; after about forty- eight hours pain was felt in the deeper parts also, and very considerable stiffness of the arm and fingers came on. At the wrist and on the dorsum of the hand—parts at which the cutaneous surface was less sunburned than on the forearm proper—the pain and stiffness on attempted motion was felt in the exact line of the tendons, and the swelling of the deeper parts came on simultaneously with the advent of these symptoms; an increase of swelling in the forearm likewise occurred, and the swollen skin, itself previously swollen, but loose, now became tense. This case lasted more than a week, and freedom of motion returned slowly. The wrist-joints were not affected, but small furuncles or glandular obstructions occurred. “ In the last and most curious case which I shall speak of, for some hours it was ques- tionable whether the patient would survive, owing to the great extent of the surface sunburned, and the hourly expectation that all the involved skin would become vesi- cated. The patient, a young man of seventeen or eighteen, spent the day on the water in a rowboat. Ilis companion, accustomed to rowing—stripped to the waist, as is the custom at Cambridge—had a well-tanned back, and did not suffer from the effects of the sun. My patient, emulous of his friend’s good, healthy, brown color, sat in the sun without any covering during many hours. The day was not a hot one, the thermometer certainly not rising above 70° F. in the shade. That night the skin was painful, and sleep was much disturbed. The next night I saw the patient sitting up in bed naked to the waist, as the contact of clothing could not be endured, and a draft of air from a window caused agony. I did not comprehend the gravity of the situation until the fol- lowing morning, when I found the more delicate parts of the skin beginning to blister, while the fiery redness of the remaining portions indicated the likelihood of the whole of the face, neck, arms, and trunk, both front, back, and side, doing likewise. Fortu- nately, vesication ceased, and anxiety was relieved—anxiety rendered unendurable because his friends could not be made to understand the gravity of the case.”