472 SYPHILIS. Chancre. (3) Usually single, rarely multiple, never confluent. (4) Non-inoculable on the patient. (5) Begins by a simple erosion, or in some cases by a papule. (6) When fully developed, the chancre is a superficial ulceration with sloping edges melting insensibly into the sur- rounding tissues, the centre covered in part with false membrane, the border bright red, usually of regular outline. Very little suppuration. (7) Chancre is rarely painful. (8) In ninety-eight cases out of one hundred, induration of the base is present; an elastic induration, gristly, having none of the characters of an inflammatory in- duration. (9) The lymphatic ganglia in the neighborhood enlarge, harden, and be- come gristly, without suppuration. The lymphatic vessels also become indurated at times. (10) Chancre is a lesion which gives rise to very little local reaction ; it tends to spontaneous cure; it ulcerates only slightly ; it rarely takes on phagedama or gangrene ; it follows a regular course. Chancroid. (3) Almost always multiple, often con- fluent. (4) May be inoculated any number of times on the patient. The pus of the suppurating bubo is also inoculable. (5) Begins by a vesico-pustule. (6) When fully developed, the chan- croid is a somewhat deep ulcer, of which the base is covered with a sort of organic detritus mixed with pus. The edges are almost perpendicular, and sharply defined. (7) Chancroid is almost always painful. (8) Chancroid is often accompanied by inflammatory hardness, but never by syphi- litic induration. (9) Chancroid is often accompanied by adenitis or lymphangeitis of phlegmonous character, suppurating sometimes, and furnishing occasionally an inoculable pus. (10) Chancroid is a rather serious local lesion ; it has a strong tendency to ulce- ration ; it follows a very irregular course, and does not tend to cure as chancre does. Phagedama and gangrene are relatively frequent complications of chancroid. Before leaving the subject of the diagnosis of chancre, attention must be called to a circumstance which may render this difficult or impossible at times, at least for a certain period, namely, the simultaneous occurrence of chancre and chancroid upon the same individual. Though uncommon, yet this does happen from time to time, much more frequently with women, however, than with men. A prostitute having connection with a number of men within a short space of time can easily contract a chancre from one and a chancroid from another, each running its course independently. Time and repeated observation will serve to differentiate the lesions in such cases. With regard to the peculiar diagnostic points characteristic of the chancre in certain localities, as the urethra, breast, vagina, and cervix uteri, reference may be made to the account given of these lesions under the general descrip- tion of chancre.1 Prognosis of Chancre.—Regarded as a local manifestation, chancre is ordinarily not a serious lesion. In some cases, however, either owing to its location, or because of some complication, a very unusual circumstance, this lesion may affect the anatomical structure, or may interfere with the func- tions, of some organ, and may thus influence indirectly the general health. Thus phagedtena may give rise to mutilation of the glans, or to urethral fis- tula, in men ; to loss of the clitoris, or to destruction of more or less of the labia, in women ; and to rectal stricture in either sex. Somewhat commoner 1 See also Ch. Mauriac, Diagnostic du Chancre Syphilitique. Ann. de Derm, et de Syph., n. s., t. i., p. 738.