512 SYPHILIS. Gumma of the mamma may be mistaken for adenoid tumor. The symptoms and course of the two forms of tumor are much the same, and it is difficult to distinguish between them. The touchstone of treatment here comes into play, and will decide the question. Much as I dislike this resource of weak- ness in syphilitic cases,yet I know not how else, oftentimes, the diagnosis can be settled. It is far different in the syphilitic skin manifestations. To fly to mercury and iodine for the purpose of settling the nature of a doubtful skin disease, is to take the ready refuge of ignorance and incompetency. It is oftentimes difficult to distinguish between gummata of certain re- gions—as the tongue, isthmus of the fauces, and penis—and cancer of those parts. When suppuration has once begun, the gumma is unlikely to be mistaken for any other affection excepting chronic abscess, and particularly scrofulous abscess. The scrofulous abscess, however, has not as long a period of incubation as the gumma, and, when it breaks down, suppuration takes place at all points, the resulting ulcer having everted edges rather than the undermined edge of the gummatous ulcer. The age of the patient and the seat of the affection also bear upon the diagnosis. The gummatous ulcer is distinguished from the scrofulous ulcer, for which it is most likely to be mistaken, by the fact that the latter shows itself chiefly upon the face and neck in young subjects. Its edges are everted and viola- ceous ; the pus which bathes its surface is gummy and caseous, and the cicatrix which succeeds the ulcer is prominent and keloid-like. In addition, the concomitant enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the case of scrofula, and the general appearance, are to be borne in mind. Prognosis.—The prognosis of gumma is always grave, for its presence signi- fies the tenacity and persistency of the syphilitic virus in the system. It is often accompanied indeed with more or less marked debility. Treatment.—Iodide of potassium is the great remedy against gummata. It should be given in large doses, often even to the amount of a drachm ora drachm and a half daily. When the constitution is debilitated, tonics, such as cod-liver oil, iron, and quinine, should be given freely, as well as nourishing food, and, in properly-selected cases, stimulants. A gumma which has not opened should never he poulticed or cut into, even when fluctuation has set in. This is a golden rule, unfortunately too often broken by practitioners who fail to make a correct diagnosis, and who fancy that they have to deal with some sort of an abscess, or by surgeons who cannot resist the impulse to drive a bistoury into any fluc- tuating tumor which may present itself. Gummatous tumors can often be resolved, even at the last moment and when fluctuation can be distinctly felt, under proper treatment. When a gummatous abscess has actually formed, various local applications may be employed. Tincture of iodine, pure or mixed with water, black wash or yellow wash, or one of the mercurial ointments, may be employed. How and then the detergent influence of chlorinated soda may be brought into action. It may be said, finally, that now and then the iodide of potassium treat- ment, which is successful in the vast majority of cases, fails. In this case, mercury can be joined to it or used alone. Sometimes an entire suspension of ant.isyphilitic treatment for a time seems to do good.