22 WOUNDS. Repair of Nerves.—It may with confidence be asserted that an injured or even a divided nerve may be thoroughly repaired, since conclusive evidence has in recent times been adduced to prove that such a large nerve-trunk as the median, the ulnar, or the great sciatic, may be divided and subsequently so joined by surgical skill as to secure, after the lapse of a certain interval of time, perfect union of the divided ends, as proved by the complete restoration Fig. 206. Fig. 207. Regeneration of nerves. From a rabbit, fifteen days after section ; young From a frog, ten weeks after section; develop- spindle cells in the nerve-ends, developed from ment of young nerve cells from spindle cells, the connective-tissue, and ultimately connected Magnified 300 times. (After Hjelt and Billroth.) with the neurilemma. (After Billroth.) of the functions of the nerve in their physiological perfection.1 It is like- wise true that new cicatricial tissues become sensitive, and that parts which, by accident or operation, have been deprived of the influence of one nerve regain their sensibility, either by the growth of new nerves, or by the assump- tion on the part of another branch of the same nerve, or of another nerve, of the physiological functions of the one that has been destroyed. Hence the conclusion is clear that nerve-tissue must be regenerated, and that the divided ends of nerve must re-unite by new nerve material. It seems, moreover, highly probable that newr nerves may be developed. In a physiological point of view, these facts are not only very remarkable, but they tend to demonstrate the perfection of the reparative process, since to allow of the conduction of nerve-force to and from the nerve-centres, very perfect conductors are un- questionably required. The process by -which this repair is brought about has been carefully studied by Schiff, Iljelt, and others, and is much after the following fashion, as given by Billroth (Figs. 206, 207) “ There is, first of all, a degeneration of the medullary sheath, possibly also of the axis cylinder, for a certain distance from the injury, which is quickly followed by the production of cells in the neurilemma; these develop into spindle cells and spread into the tissue which intervenes between the nerve-fibrils, and which extends also between the cut extremities of the nerves. From these cells, as in the embryo, new nerve-fibres are developed,” and these new fibres “ ultimately cannot be distinguished from ordinary nerve-fibres.”2 1 Weir Mitchell, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1876 ; Hulke, Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, vol. xii. 2 Billroth, Lectures on Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics, vol. i. p. 152. London, New Sydenham Society, 1877.