( 277 ) ULCERS. BY JOHN T. HODGEN M.E., LL.E., PROFESSOR OF SURGICAL ANATOMY IN THE ST. LOUIS MEDICAL COLLEGE, ST. LOUIS. An Ulcer is a solution of continuity maintained either by some local cause or by some constitutional disorder. Many ulcers are due to specific causes, and are maintained by specific conditions: these will be considered elsewhere under the proper heads. I shall confine myself, in this Article, to the consideration of non-specific ulcers, the causes of which are both local and constitutional. Among the local causes are such as result directly from mechanical violence, from chemi- cal irritation, or from heat or cold, by which the vitality of a portion of the integument and deeper tissues is destroyed. Other local causes are found in disturbances of circulation, such as varicose veins, constricting bands, tight bandaging, continued pressure, etc. The general causes are such as induce an insufficient supply of blood, an improper quality of the blood, or a dis- turbance in the circulation of blood in the part. There are certain sites at which ulcers most commonly occur, and these sites are determined by anatomical peculiarities. Unusual exposure to mechanical violence, from position or occupation, predisposes to the occur- rence of ulcers. Thus the inner and anterior part of the leg, over the tibia, is the most frequent site of ulcers. The occupations of the laboring classes, by exposing them to injury, the innutrition of the insufficiently fed, and the irregular habits of the dissipated, make the occurrence of ulcers on the shin a very common thing, especially in advanced life. The special exciting causes and the constitutional influences which favor the production of ulcers will he considered in connection with the special forms of ulcers. Simple or Healthy Ulcers. These occur on any part of the body, more frequently at the site of election above referred to, and in persons in whom there is no constitutional defect connected with nutrition, circulation, or innervation. They may be due to any mechanical or chemical cause resulting in the death of any of the super- ficial tissues, including the skin. When a portion of the skin is dead, changes occur in the tissues immediately about the dead part, which result in the dis- integration, partial solution, and absorption or throwing off of the tissue so involved. This disintegration in the living tissue results in the separation of the dead tissue as a slough, and this process, when completed, leaves a granulating surface upon which may remain small fragments of dead tissue not yet completely separated. These fragments soon disappear, after which the discharge no longer contains any of the debris of the old tissue, hut con-