627 DISEASES OF THE HAIR. their vitality—just as hirsuties, as is well known, not seldom follows the rubefacient action of a mustard poultice on any part of the body. They most commonly consist of mixtures of quicklime and arsenic, or of sulphides of calcium, barium, etc. An objection common to both them and the razor, is that by the use of either there is substituted for the more delicate and taper- ing, pointed, primary growth, one which is coarser, and of the same dimen- sions throughout, and much more conspicuous, and that, when resorted to, the remedy must be used frequently. The third method was epilation. The same objection is not applicable to this process, for if the hairs are pulled out “ by the roots,” which may be easily done, the new growth, which is delayed much longer than after the use of the first two methods, is still tapering and comparatively delicate. Even this process, however, by constant repetition, which is necessary to keep the hirsuties under control, tends to stimulate to some extent the growth in the neighboring follicles. Yet it is the only one which should, be recommended by the surgeon as within the power of the patient to use for herself, or as affording any satisfactory measure of relief, although temporary, without aggravating the deformity against which it is directed. For the circumscribed hirsuties connected with papillary and pig- ment hypertrophy, when this is of small extent, epilation is a sufficient means of relief. But none of these measures can possibly effect the desired result, the radi- cal and permanent destruction of the growth, as this can be done only by the obliteration of the hair papilla at the very bottom of the follicle. To accomplish this, American dermatologists have, within the last few years, devised and practised various methods, among which may be mentioned the galvano-cautery, applied within the hair follicle; the attempted introduction of powerful caustics or irritants to the interior of the same; the mechanical destruction of the papilla by rimming out the cavity of the follicle with a triangular glover’s needle, etc. But it may be said o+‘ all of these that they are unreliable, and therefore unsatisfactory. It is to Dr. Michel, Professor of Ophthalmology in the Missouri Medical College, that we are principally indebted for the introduction of a method which is both practical and efficient, viz., electrolysis. Its success was first demonstrated1 in the treatment of trichiasis, and its applicability to general hirsuties has since been most successfully established, especially by Dr. Hard- away, of St. Louis, and Dr. Fox, of Yew York. The necessary apparatus is a galvanic battery of ten or fifteen cells, supplying a current strong enough to decompose water. An excellent instrument for the purpose is the chloride of silver battery of sixteen cells, made by the “ Western Electric Manufac- turing Company” of Yew York. It is very compact, free from danger of spilling, and needs refilling only once a year. In addition, there are required a small sponge electrode; a supply of the slender steel needles of various sizes, without barbs, used by dentists for extracting nerves; a proper needle- holder ; and two cord conductors, a yard or more in length. The needle is connected with the negative pole of the battery, the sponge electrode with the positive pole. The needle, secured in its holder, is then to be carefully introduced within the hair follicle to be operated on, as far as the papilla, and held there, while with the other hand the moistened sponge electrode is applied to the skin in the immediate vicinity of the part. At once a frothy material is seen to ooze from the mouth of the follicle, around the needle, the product of decomposition of the tissues in contact with its point. This frothing should be allowed to continue for a few seconds, according to the size of the hair to be destroyed, when the sponge electrode should be removed, 1 St. Louis Clinical Record, October, 1875.