647 LEPROSY. hairs fall from the scalp and face; the nails and skin become dry; the epi- dermis is cast off, leaving indolent ulcers; the joints become necrosed, and drop off; or moist and dry gangrene of the feet and hands may cause the loss of whole members (Lepra mutilans). In these advanced stages, the general system suffers in serious ways: debility, diarrhoea, reduced heart’s action and dementia come on, and the patient finally dies of marasmus, tetanus, pyaemia, or pneumonia, or with typhoidal symptoms, etc. This, the last stage of the anaesthetic form, is generally the termination also of the two other varieties. Anatomy of Leprosy.—The microscopical appearances of a tubercle in leprosy closely resemble those of lupus growth—that is, small-cell granula- tion tissue—excepting that it is not so confined to isolated masses as in the early stages., but is diffused throughout the corium, especially along the course of the vessels and about the glandular systems. Subsequently this tissue un- dergoes degeneration, as in lupus, with the formation of large colloid corpus- cles. The nervous structures are the seat of marked changes, the result of chronic inflammatory processes, with thickening of the nerves, small-cell deposits in the neurilemma and between the bundles, and, finally, fatty de- generation of the same with atrophy of the nerve fibres. A large part of the nervous system may be thus affected. The internal organs also do not escape, similar changes being found in the testicles, liver, spleen, kidneys, lungs, etc. Etiology.—Of the direct causes of leprosy, it may be said that we know nothing, unless we admit its communication by contagion. It occurs in all parts of the world, irrespective of temperature, moisture, altitude, diet, or any recognized physical conditions. It at one time covered Europe with lazarettos. It is on the increase in some regions, and has shown an activity and virulence, during the last twenty years, in the Hawaiian Islands, equal to that displayed at the time of its most extensive ra\ ages in the middle ages in the eastern hemisphere. We know only one fact certainly : that it is he- reditary ; that a certain proportion of a leper’s children are liable to the disease in after life; but that this development is retarded in the descendants, and that the character of the affection is perhaps mitigated by residence-in non-leprous regions. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that in individuals with- out such hereditary taint, the disease is much more liable to develop in regions where leprosy abounds—that is, where lepers live—than in other localities. This suggests the possibility of contagion by direct or indirect personal con- tact. Certainly, a study of the spread of the disease in the Sandwich Islands, a virgin soil for such an investigation, warrants a revision of the commonly accepted, modern, professional dictum that it is not contagious. Very strong data exist to prove that the disease has been communicated there, at least, by contact, and such is the firm belief of all physicians who have observed it in those islands. It might well be inoculated by means of vaccination, or in connection with venereal lesions, from leprous subjects. It may first show itself in early childhood, or at any subsequent age. Prognosis.—The disease is almost uniformly fatal, although its course may be influenced, favorably or unfavorably, by the circumstances and residence of the patient. Removal, in the early stages of the disease, to regions where it is not endemic, may delay its progress. In this connection it may be men- tioned that Dr. Gronvold, of the Norwegian Colony in Minnesota, has furnished to the American Dermatological Association interesting data regarding the disease as it exists among his countrymen, showing an equal representation of the tubercular and anaesthetic forms; its steady progress in those patients who exhibited the first symptoms of the malady in the old world; and no