COMPLICATIONS OP GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 133 primarily a constitutional affection, it is believed by most to be of local origin, the general symptoms occurring only secondarily, and sometimes being absent altogether. Attacking more often those broken down by dissi- pation, overwork and over-worry, scurvy, diarrhoea, or malaria, it yet may seize upon the strongest and the healthiest. It cannot depend upon weather or place, since it has prevailed at all seasons and under the most diverse cli- matic and atmospheric conditions. Many of the Germans have seen in it but a wound diphtheria; but by surgeons generally the two diseases are regarded as separate both as regards etiology and symptoms, though both are charac- terized by the deposit of fibrinous infiltration on the affected tissues. Be- lieved by some to depend upon the presence of a special organism, none of the more competent observers have been able to discover in its discharges anything else than the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction. Heine’s statement is still a true one, that its cause is “a specific poison of unknown nature, which exerts its action upon the surface of the wound and produces a coagulation of the fluids, passing step by step through the superficial to the deeper parts.” That hospital gangrene is both contagious and infectious, is certain, and when prevailing epidemically, its direct transmission from patient to patient may generally be easily shown. Three varieties are met with—the ulcera- tive, the pulpy, and the gangrenous—the two latter being very often, if not generally, associated. The ulcerative is the rarer and the milder form; the others are more com- mon, and are always attended by general disturbances, often of great inten- sity. Locally, the ulcerative form shows “ a small cup-shaped excavation, with raised edges of a deeper color than the rest of the wound, filled with a brownish tenacious ichor. Many of these ulcers may be simultaneously de- veloped on the same wound ; extending superficially and in depth, they de- stroy the granulations, and give rise to an abundant secretion of an ichorous fluid. The fusion of a number of ulcers accelerates the progress of the dis- ease that soon affects the entire wound, the suppuration of which is arrested, and in place of the pus, there is poured out a fetid liquid, colored dark by blood.” (Legouest.) In the pulpy variety, which may be the primary form, or may be consecu- tive to the ulcerative,there are developed “false membranes,firmly adherent, covering a part or the whole of the wound. This semi-concrete material of a dirty grayish-white color, with blackish points as it were sprinkled over it, exactly covers the invaded parts ; it steadily and rapidly increases in thickness and consistence, then softens down, and becomes converted into a violet-gray putrilage, horribly fetid, that partially or completely falls off, leaving underneath sometimes an ulcerated surface, sometimes a layer of material that afterwards goes through the same changes.” (Legouest.) The gangrenous variety attacks usually “ recent wounds and stumps. The whole injured surface is covered with a layer of material that presents the appearance of moist gangrene, in which are found numerous particles of dead cellular tissue, with disseminated small blood clots of grayish, brown, or greenish color, and from which there exudes a grayish and very fetid fluid. The gangrenous layer is thrown off in mass, or in pieces of some size, on the third or fourth day ; dead masses, made up chiefly of the connective tissue, are drawn out in pieces of greater or less size from the muscular interspaces and the subcutaneous layers. The skin over the affected part is of a wine- lees redness, thinned at certain points, and softened at others where fluctua- tion is present. The detachment of the sloughs sometimes exposes a new pseudo-membranous layer; more often it leaves uncovered the tissues, which show themselves of a pale rose color, and which secrete a sero-purulent liquid of bad odor.” (Legouest.)