633 KELOID. If to this enormous thickening of the integument we add the fiery hue which accompanies it, especially in free drinkers, the enlarged and visible capillaries, the widely distended follicular openings, and, to complete the picture, the numerous comedones, acne pustules, seborrhoea, and scars, we have the im- mortal nose of Bardolph, as painted1 by an artist whose descriptions of all things within the compass of his observation have never been equalled. Nature and Causes.—The nature of the anatomical changes in rosacea is primarily an enlargement and new growth of the vessels of the skin, in its upper portion, and subsequently, hypertrophy of the connective tissue, which, at first jelly-like and elastic, and capable of reabsorption, becomes, in the most advanced forms of the affection, fully organized and firm. We have little positive knowledge of the causes of rosacea. In the first stage, it occurs about equally in both sexes, hut in its most advanced forms, it affects almost exclusively men beyond middle age. It is often associated, in women, with disturbance of menstruation and with anaemia. Constant exposure to rough weather favors the development of the vascular new growth. That the free use of alcoholic drinks works strongly in the same direction, has been recog- nized in all ages, as seen in the Latin poets, in the tavern talk of Falstaff and his companions, above referred to, and in the expressions “ toddy” and “ grog blossoms,” in use to-day. Treatment.—The mild grades of the affection are best treated by such local remedies as are of service in the hypersemia and follicular inflammation of acne. For the diffused redness, a wash of sulphur and camphor (Sul- phuris prsecipitati 3ss, tincturse campliorse f|ss, alcohol fgvij), applied freely at night, will often gradually give relief, if used in connection with remedies addressed to any general fault of the economy which may exist. The en- larged vessels which ramify so conspicuously just beneath the epidermis, may be destroyed by repeated scarifications with a sharp-edged needle, or much more surely by electrolysis. The nodules, in their earliest stage, may be freely lanced, or scarified, or, when too firmly organized to be relieved by depletion, may be removed by the curette. When the skin is greatly thickened, and when the nose has become monstrous in size, either over its whole extent or at its tip or alae, it may always be reduced to moderate proportions by free excision of the hypertrophied integument. The surgeon must be prepared for free hemorrhage from the vascular new growth. [To avoid bleeding, Ollier recommends the employment of the galvano-cautery.] Keloid. Keloid [or Cheloid] is a new growth of fibrous tissue resembling a scar, em- bedded in or elevated above the skin, arising spontaneously, and generally remaining through life. It has been the custom to divide such growths into the true and the false, according as the keloid has its origin in the normal skin or in a pre-existing scar, but such distinctions are of little practical con- sequence, as the growth is the same in both cases. It begins as a flattened and firm, elastic thickening of the skin, or as a slightly elevated prominence of small size, the surface being of a pinkish hue, or paler than the surround- ing skin, and covered by a thin, smooth, and shining epidermis. It may be 1 King Henry IV., First part, Act III. scene 3. Bardolph had then borne his nose eighteen years, according to Prince Hal (Act II. scene 4), and we still find it a conspicuous object in the reign of Henry V.: “ all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames of fire.”