207 GUNSHOT INJURIES OE THE EXTREMITIES. the thigh and leg, the cause of gangrene. Suppuration of the sac is more apt to occur in traumatic aneurism of the axillary artery than in that of any other vessel. Sometimes, when the shot has produced great destruction of the humerus, or after an extensive exsection in continuity, a flail-like condition of the ex- tremity has resulted; but such a “ dangle-limb” may yet be quite serviceable, the individual being able, by muscular contraction, to bring up the lower against the upper fragment, and afterwards to execute many movements of the forearm. Pseudarthrosis is very seldom met with ; but in the rare cases of simple gunshot fracture of the humerus, false-joint seems very likely to result: there were but five such cases recorded during our war, and in two of these there was non-union. Prognosis.—The prognosis of gunshot fractures of the arm, though affected, of course, by the character and extent of the osseous lesion, and by any asso- ciated injury of the neck or trunk, may be said, in general, to be moderately favorable, and to become less grave in proportion as the wound is located further away from the body: humeral fractures are the most dangerous, while those of the bones of the hand are the least so. Of nearly twenty-five thousand (24,200) cases analyzed by Otis, the numbers and death-rates were as follows :— Cases. Deaths. Mortality per cent. Clavicle . 520 44 8.46 Scapula . 1423 177 12.44 Clavicle aud scapula . . 103 24 23.3 Humerus . 7888 1639 20.7 Radius . 1450 115 8.0 Ulna .... . 1568 126 8.0 Radius and ulna. . 1288 142 11.0 Bones of hand . . 9960 316 3.17 As shown by the above table, though injuries of the clavicle or scapula, separately, are less dangerous than those of the humerus, yet those of the two bones together are decidedly more so. In scapular perforations, much trouble and some danger are likely to be caused by collections of blood and pus, internal to and, from gravitation, below the bone; even lumbar ecchymosis is some- times thus produced. The chief causes of death are hemorrhage, exhaustion, and septic infection. In those non-fatal cases in which the limb is saved, recovery is tedious, and may be expected to be associated, in greater or less degree, with deformity, adhesions and contractions of the muscles and fasciae, atrophy, weakness, and true, or more often false, anchylosis of the joints. The amount of impairment of functional value will, however, in very many cases, depend greatly upon the treatment adopted, and upon the time at and during which passive and active movements of the injured parts are made, and the extent to which they are carried. Treatment.—In the treatment of these cases, the first and most important question to be settled is, shall it be by amputation, by excision, or by expec- tancy? Primary amputation of a part or the whole of at least the right upper extremity, should seldom or never be adopted for a bullet-wound, no matter how extensive the shattering caused by the ball; this operation should, in military practice, be reserved for the severer shell injuries, and in civil life, for the similar lacerations produced by shot-charges fired at close range. Even if the brachial artery has been torn, amputation is not imperatively demanded. Though undoubtedly lives will, at times, be lost in attempts to save limbs, the importance of the arm is so great that it is often permissible to take the increased risk. Amputation at a later period may be necessitated,