SYPHILIS. 572 any other reason it is desirable to make a rapid impression, fumigation, inunc- tion, or the administration of Tag grain of the corrosive chloride in tincture of bark, taken diluted after meals, may he employed, and then, when the urgent symptoms have fairly declined, all medication may be suspended for a week or two, after which the course sketched above may be regularly instituted. “ When a dose of six, nine, or even twelve granules a day, in some cases, has been reached, it will produce a very positive attack of diarrhoea, with pain in the intestines, and occasionally at the same time the breath will begin to have the mercurial fetor, and the livid line will begin to show faintly along the edge of the gums, while the teeth themselves become a little sensitive on being snapped sharply together, and the saliva flows more freely.” Diarrhoea and griping, however, are more apt to be met with in using the protiodide than are the mouth symptoms. AVhen either set of symptoms occurs, the patient is taking what Dr. Keyes calls his “full dose,” which is anything but tonic, and which is only to be kept up, with the aid of bland food and a little opium, until the urgent symptoms are overcome. It is then dropped to one-half, which is the “tonic dose,” and may be continued steadily during several years without injury to the patient, indeed to his advantage as regards his general condition. When, however, the syphilitic symptoms have subsided, a still less quantity, perhaps one-tliird of the “full dose,” is required. This dose is also tonic, and is to be persisted in daily, year in and year out, alterations being made from time to time, according to the varied necessities of the particular case. During the existence of moderate symptoms the tonic dose may be con- tinued, but if special outbreaks occur, more active measures, in the shape of increased doses, fumigations, etc., may be resorted to temporarily. When the period of late lesions arrives, if an outbreak occurs, the iodides are to be used temporarily, and the tonic course again resorted to when the emergency is past. As regards the period during which the tonic course should be given, this must vary in different cases. About three years is a full course for most people, while two years and a half, or even two years, answers well enough in some cases. Six months-—or better, an entire year—of immunity from symptoms is desirable, before the tonic treatment is stopped. I have given Dr. Keyes’s plan of treatment at some length, both because it is not as well known as the older plans, and because it has commended itself to me, after some years of personal experience, as decidedly the best and most rational. It is often difficult to induce patients to follow out such a pro- longed course of treatment. The symptoms once fairly gone, the patient gradually forgets the serious nature of the affection from which he has suf- fered, and this diminishes in importance in his mind while the continual dosing becomes more and more irksome. For this reason I have frequently failed in inducing patients to prolong the treatment for any considerable length of time after the disappearance of all visible signs of the disease. I have, however, succeeded in some instances; and even when the course of treatment has not been prolonged to the extent which I should have desired, the effect has been so satisfactory that I employ this to the exclusion of all other methods. Salivation.—Although mercury is rarely given in large doses at the pre- sent time, and salivation is consequently of very unusual occurrence, yet this complication does occasionally arise, owing to some idiosyncrasy of the pa- tient, or to some other cause, and it must be dealt wdth and relieved as quickly