116 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. Fig. 233. ence was only conjectured by the surgeon. The specimen shows what difficulty would have attended the extraction of the foreign body, wedged down as it was under the zygoma, at its base, and penetrating into the skull as it did by its point. The specimen and the history of the case are demonstrations of the advantages in all cases of thorough digital exploration, not merely to determine the presence of an arrow head, but to enable^ the surgeon to decide what manoeuvre will best serve for its safe removal. In the above case, it would probably have been necessary to resect the zygoma, in order to get enough of the arrow head exposed for the grasp of the forceps. The man survived the injury about a month, and ■was, during most of this time, without threatening symptoms. Arrow wound of temporal bone with entangle- ment of arrow head by the zygoma. (A. M. M., Sect. I. Spec. 5907.) Arrow Wounds of the Neck.—This part of the body is often wounded, but, as the table on page 107 shows, not with serious effects. Yet if the great vessels should be wounded, or the trachea spiked to the vertebral column—injuries not unlikely to be met with—the case would in all probability end fatally. I have never seen such an occurrence, but it is in tradition that Conrad of Lorraine, having removed his helmet at the mo- ment of victory over the Hungarians, received such a wound, and speedily died. Arrow Wounds of the Chest.—Arrow wounds penetrating the chest and wounding the lung, although serious, are by no means necessarily mortal injuries. The table shows that in 18 such cases, there were 13 deaths, or about 72 per cent. The lung does not collapse after an arrow wound, as it is apt to do after a wound made by a ball, for the arrow shaft is tightly grasped by the cutaneous tissues, and the integrity of the pleural vacuum is preserved. But in this very collapse and contraction lies the patient’s safety against bleeding, and hence arrow wounds of the lungs are apt to be attended with internal hemorrhage, which, if at all profuse, leads to almost immediate death by apnoea. If the patient survives the period of hemorrhage, the prognosis is favorable, for the consecutive inflammation is usually trifling, and requires no treatment beyond placing the patient at rest, and affording a supply of pure warm air. If the head of the arrow has been left in the lung tissue, nothing probably can be done for the patient. Only the most superficial examination with the probe is allowable. The patient will probably die with hectic, in the course of six weeks, or, if he survive, will remain an invalid all his life. If the shaft has not been removed, the external wound should be cautiously dilated with bistoury and finger, and the arrow bead then snared by the bent loop, or grasped by the arrow forceps, and withdrawn. The loop is the better instrument in these lung cases. The greatest care should be taken not to detach the bead from the shaft, for if this should hap- pen, and the head be lost, the patient would almost certainly perish. If an arrow has passed from one side of the chest to the other, as from the breast to the back, it is better to push it on, and make it emerge through an intercostal space, than to draw it back. If it is lodged in a rib, after travers- ing the chest from side to side, the point of this lodgment must he ascer- tained by gently striking the feathered end of the shaft whilst the fingers of