476 SYPHILIS. the poison which has heretofore been confined, as to its outward manifesta- tions, to a single locality and its immediate neighborhood, now diffuses and spreads itself about throughout the economy, and shows itself in the form of constitutional symptoms of various nature. The term “ constitutional syphilis” has sometimes been employed to desig- nate the period under consideration, but I consider this term faulty, as implying a local character for the chancre, which indeed is as much a “ con- stitutional” symptom as any that follow. A further division of the generalized lesions into early and late may be made for convenience’s sake, it being understood that this subdivision is not and cannot be accurate, the chronology of the various symptoms not being the same in every case, although their sequence is never inverted. For example, the erythematous, pustular, and gummatous syphilodermata occur in this order, and usually with certain intervals of time between the appear- ance of each. But, while in certain cases where the syphilitic attack tends to assume a malignant type, these eruptions follow one another in such rapid succession as to appear almost synchronously, yet they never appear in in- verted order, and we never see a gummatous tumor followed by an erythe- matous syphiloderm. General Condition before and during the Outbreak of the Early Generalized Symptoms.—The chancre, as has been said, is, for a time, the only manifestation which betrays the existence of syphilis. For a certain period, no other lesions show themselves to indicate that a virus is lurking in the system. This period of the “second incubation,” as it is called by some authors, the second interlude in the drama of the evolution of syphilis, as Fournier graphically terms it, is followed by the explosion of generalized symptoms. Its duration is on an average forty-five to fifty days, although it may vary, in exceptional cases, as much as a week or ten days on either side of these figures.1 Following this period of apparent repose, the generalized symptoms make their appearance in due chronological sequence, never appearing before the chancre, never appearing without the chancre having first appeared. There is no such thing as syphilis d'emhlee, the sudden outbreak of generalized symp- toms; a chancre, whether detected by the patient and physician, or whether eluding the closest scrutiny, has certainly, and of necessity, preceded any general outbreak. Condition of the Blood in Syphilis.—That the blood must undergo some change during the evolution of the syphilitic poison in the economy, has long been admitted, but the first scientific observations upon the subject were made by Grassi, under the direction of Ricord.2 Grassi undertook a number of chemical analyses of the blood in persons suffering from venereal sores, and found that when these sores were not followed by subsequent syphilitic mani- festations (chancroid), the blood remained normal; while in cases where sub- sequent generalized symptoms resulted (chancre), the blood showed diminution of the globular mass with proportional increase of the albuminous constitu- ents. Grassi’s results were confirmed by Wilbouchewitch, of Moscow,3 who, desiring to study the influence of mercury on the composition of the blood, 1 Of course this refers to untreated cases. Mercury given during the early stages of the disease retards the evolution of symptoms. In rare cases the second incubation may be longer ; Keyes says as long as four or five months. (Op. eit., p. 101.) 2 Lemons sur le Chancre, 2e ed., p. 184. 3 De l’influence des preparations mercurielles sur la richesse du sang en globules rouges et en globules blancs. Archives de Pliysiologie, pp. 509, 537, 1874.