SYPHILIS. 474 I do not think that this can be rightly formulated as a law; there are too many exceptions. I have again and again observed severe syphilitic mani- festations to follow the most benign and insignificant-looking chancres. Among the various circumstances which may l?e mentioned as influencing the evolution of syphilis, the scrofulous or lymphatic temperament is perhaps one of the most important. “ Dread syphilis occurring in blondes,” says Diday. Old age, abuse of alcohol, debility from constitutional infirmity or from irregularity of life, pregnancy,1 and mal-hygiene, are all elements of value in the prognosis of chancre.2 Treatment of Chancre.—The abortive treatment of chancre—that is, its destruction with the view of preventing the subsequent development of general symptoms—has been discussed by syphilographers for many years without an unanimous opinion having been reached as to the desirability or the success of this procedure. At a time when the distinction between chancre and chancroid had not been clearly made out, such observers as Hun- ter and Ricord asserted that if the chancre were thoroughly cauterized before the fourth day after contagion, no constitutional symptoms would follow. But chancre does not make its appearance before the third week as a general thing, and almost never before the tenth day. Consequently, those chancres which were aborted on or before the fourth day after contagion, were not chancres at all, but something else—chancroids, herpes, etc. More recently several observers, among them Auspitz3 and Ivolliker,4 have extirpated chancres by the knife; but when carefully analyzed, and the doubtful cases rejected, their statistics do not offer satisfactory evidence in favor of this form of the abortive treatment. They have failed to bring forward conclusive evidence, in connection with their successful cases, that constitutional syphilis would have appeared if extirpation had not been practised.5 With regard to the cauterization or extirpation of a chancre considered as a local lesion, I think that this should not he performed, unless when phagedsena is present. The lesion ordinarily tends to get well spontaneously, and irritative or too stimulating applications are apt only to arouse irritation, and to give trouble in the future. The simplest dressing is therefore the best. Continence should always be urged upon the bearer of a chancre, whether male or female; not only to avoid the irritation resultant from coitus, but also, and still more, to prevent conveyance of contagion. Many men, when they have contracted a chancre, care but little whether they transmit it to others or not. Women also, with whom chancre is usually such a minimal lesion, often think that they are unlikely to convey disease by means of such a trifling sore, and thus the affection is spread. In advising such persons, it is as well, in view of the selfishness of human nature, to lay stress upon the possible injury which patients may inflict upon themselves, by indulging in sexual intercourse while bearing a chancre upon their genitals, rather than upon the harm which they may inflict upon others. A strict regimen, including abstinence from wine or liquors, and in some instances from tobacco, should be followed outdaring the course of treatment. 1 See Cernatesco, De la Marche et de la Duree du Chancre Sypliilitique et, des Syphilides Vul- vaires pendent le cours de la Gestation. Paris, 1878. 2 See Ch. Mauriac, Prognostic et Traitement de la Syphilis Primitive. Abstract in Ann. de Derm, et de Syph., n. s., t. i., p. 295 ; from La France Medicale. 3 Vierteljalirsschr. f. Derm. u. Sypli., iv. 1877, 1 und 2, S. 101. 4 Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, Nov. 30, 1878, S. 801. 5 Among recent writers on this subject are Chadzynski, “Sur la valeur prophylactique de PExcision de la SclSrose Syphilitique Initiale.” Ann. de Derm, et de Sypli., n. s., t. i., p. 461; also, Primo Ferrari and Francesco Folinea, of whose papers Jullien has furnished abstracts in the same journal, p. 362.