SYPHILIS. 526 ing pain on percussion or palpation, are characteristic symptoms. The pain leaves before the hypertrophy has been entirely reduced by treatment. Icterus is not a constant symptom. When present, it comes on after the hypertrophy and pain, and disappears with those manifestations. When observed, it is intense, with scanty, bile-colored urine, and clayey stools; but none of these symptoms persists more than a few days after treatment has been instituted. As was observed above, in treating of the earliest forms of syphilitic liver trouble, gastric and intestinal catarrh are absent. The digestive disturbances noted supervene after the appearance of the hepatic disorder, and are accounted for by the condition’of the liver. Loss of appetite is observed, while the tongue is moist and normal in appearance. Digestion is slow and difficult, and accompanied by sensations of weight and discomfort in the epigastric region, and by a tendency to constipation. The other symptoms of syphilis, eruptions of various kinds, cephalalgia, etc., usually relapse or break out afresh coincidently with the appearance of the hepatic disorder, and it has been observed that in some cases the spleen and kidneys are involved at the same time. The diagnosis of this form of syphilis of the liver, which it may he men- tioned is a rather rare affection—if we may judge from the scanty records published—must be made chiefly by exclusion. There is scarcely any affec- tion excepting syphilis which can give rise to this sub-chronic condition of the liver, and of course the coincidence of other syphilitic manifestations is an important aid. The prognosis is more serious than in the earlier form of hepatic trouble, and it is likely that the repeated congestive attacks and relapses which mark the course of the affection, point to a locus minoris resistentice which may be the seat of subsequent attacks of syphilitic disease of a more serious character. The coincidence of other visceral manifestations, and the fact that when eruptions of the skin occur in this connection they are often of the type called “ precocious” and “ malignant,” also mark the affection under consider- ation as one of serious import. The treatment should be prompt and energetic, every effort being made to build up the patient at the same time that specific remedies are administei’ed with a free hand. The “ mixed treatment” is that to which recourse should be had, and in order to save the stomach as much as possible, mercurial inunc- tion may he combined with the internal administration of iodide of potas- sium, beginning with the dose of five grains thrice daily, given immediately after eating, and rapidly increasing this to ten grains or more at a dose, care being taken to avoid irritation of the stomach. (See remarks on treatment.) Tonics, such as iron and quinine, nourishing food, douche and other baths, and change of air and scene, may be required in one case or another. It must be remembered that it is not merely a patient with liver trouble that must be treated, but at the same time an individual poisoned by an unusually severe attack of syphilis, which may even threaten life in its later stages, if these, its earlier manifestations, are not deprived of their virulence and crushed out. Among local remedies various revulsives may be used. Dry cupping, and afterwards, flying blisters, are perhaps the most satisfactory in their effects. It must not be forgotten that even after the patient appears to he cured, relapses may take place, and that the antisyphilitic treatment should be kept up for a long time, or, if this is impossible, should be resorted to for short periods at intervals. Late Hepatic Syphilis.—The late syphilitic lesions of the liver manifest themselves under two forms—1. Interstitial hepatitis. 2. Gummatous hepa-