BUNION. 729 extent. The tendons of the flexor brevis and adductor are likewise situated more externally than natural. Treatment of Bunion.—From what has been said as to the causes of bunion, it is clear that above all things the treatment should aim at the removal of pressure. This end can be best attained by wearing long, “easy” shoes, taking care, however, that they are sufliciently tight over the instep, to prevent the toes from reaching their extremities, as otherwise the looseness will hut add to the evil. The inner border of the toe portion of the sole, which must be as wide if not wider than the foot part, ought to be straight, as in the so-called “ waukenphast” shoe. “ Boxtoes” are also valuable where the smaller digits are distorted. Until the deviated axes of the toes are restored to their normal line, the projecting angles formed by the distorted joints must remain exposed to irritating pressure. When the great toe only is involved, a separate compartment for it in the shoe is the simplest measure to effect a restoration of the deviated axis. The following apparatus should he worn at night: A band of stout linen or light canvas fitted to the tarsus and meta- tarsus, arranged so as to lace firmly on this portion of the foot, should be provided. Upon its inner side a narrow “casing” should he made for the reception of a piece of spring-steel about half an inch wide, curved in a sigmoid manner so as to fit the concavity of the tarsus and metatarsus by its convexity, while by its concavity facing towards the metatarso-phalangeal joint, pressure is avoided.1 The joint must be protected by soap-plaster spread on amadou or soft felt. Lacing the band on, and placing the piece of steel in its casing, all that is now required to complete the dressing is to slip a broad rubber band, of such thickness and length as not to produce pain, around the toe and the projecting distal end of the bar. Even as a permanent dress- ing for the daytime, this simple little apparatus is to be recommended, being quite as efficacious as Bigg’s or Sayre’s, besides being readily made at home, or at the most requiring the aid of a blacksmith. The use of one of these devices may prove successful even in the more severe cases. In these latter, if obstinate, subcutaneous section of the external lateral ligament, or of the tendons of the adductor or flexor brevis pollicis, or of all three, may be resorted to advantageously. When any but the great or little toe is the one affected (as in the deformity known as “ hammer-toe”), the simple expedient of passing a strip of adhesive plaster about an inch wide, first over the distorted toes and then under the normal ones, will often suffice to cure the deformity. Of course the unspread surface must be laid upon the distorted toes, so that the adhesive surface may be applied to the normal ones, which serve to pull the deformed toes into place.2 Where either incipient or pronounced “ flat-foot” is detected, any- thing like prolonged standing must be strictly interdicted. A steel shank should be fixed in the sole of the shoe. The enfeebled muscles must be stimu- lated by friction, massage, or electricity, and where these do not avail, a piece of rubber tubing should be employed, after Barwell’s method, to aid the weakened muscles in maintaining the proper form of the foot.3 As palliatives and adjuvants, the careful removal of the thickened epider- mis, and the protection of the sensitive parts by means of soap plaster spread upon leather, either in the form of a ring to remove pressure, or as a con- tinuous covering, should be tried. These means, with proper shoes, rest and emollient applications for a few days, followed, when the inflammation is 1 A piece of corset-steel will do in an emergency. 2 Ashton, Med. Times and Gaz., 1852, N. S. vol. v. p. 282. 3 See Sayre, Ortliopsedic Surgery, pp. 84, 85.