276 ABSCESSES. Symptoms of Diffuse Suppuration.—When any case of acute inflammation is met with in the class of patients alluded to above, the probability that suppuration will tend to be diffuse must be carefully borne in mind, for the condition is one that may be overlooked, and one, at the same time, which it is highly important to detect in the very outset. The premonitory symptoms are (1) swelling, which is usually considerable; (2) discoloration, when the parts are superficial (as in the forearm or side of the neck), the skin being dusky or ruddy, tight, smooth, and very sensitive; (3) pain, which is throbbing and “burning,” while the patient complains of a sensation of weight and tension. When suppuration has occurred, the t issues are at first (edematous, so that they readily pit on pressure; afterwards they become “ boggy” and soft, and crepi- tation perhaps is felt. The motion is often indistinct, or absent, owing to the fact that matter, even when its quantity is considerable, does not form a cir- cumscribed collection that can be pressed to and fro beneath the fingers, hut is disseminated through the meshes of the areolar tissue. It is only, as a rule, when the amount of pus is very large, and the areolar tissue has been broken down, that fluctuation can be detected. The surgeon must depend for the recognition of the existence of pus mainly on the general features of the case—the age, and the constitutional history and present condition of the patient, the aspect of the skin, the oedema and pitting on pressure, and the sensation that the structures are undermined, soft, boggy, and crepitant. In any case of doubt, however, an exploratory puncture should be made. This will do no harm, even if there prove to be no matter, while, on the contrary, its omission or delay may lead to very serious mischief that prompt interference might have averted. Treatment of Diffuse Suppuration.—The patient’s strength must he sup- ported by the use of quinine, cinchona, and ammonia, or iron, with nutritive food, moderate stimulants, and good air. In choosing the drugs to be em- ployed, care must be taken that they are adapted to the condition of the patient in respect to his age, and his powers of digestion. If they induce sickness, or seem to disturb the appetite, they had better be withheld. Food is much more important. This must be at the same time nutritive and easily digested, and it must be given frequently and in moderate quantities. >Stimu- lants, though they may be called for, must be cautiously used. Given freely, they are apt to destroy the appetite for food ; two or three glasses of wine, or from three to six ounces of brandy, are all that, in the majority of cases, can be advantageously prescribed. Local Treatment.—The local means are rest of the part in the horizontal or slightly raised position; hot fomentations frequently renewed, or hot poultices; incision ; and freedrainage. Of these, early and free incisions are by far the most important. The practice of some surgeons is to make one or two incisions of considerable length—extending, e. g., from the shoulder nearly to the elbow, or from the elbow nearly to the wrist—but it is usually better, both for imme- diate relief of tension, and for after healing, to employ several short incisions, so placed that the openings are dependent, and drainage easy and direct.