TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA IN WOMEN. 401 The patient, being in bed with the buttocks resting upon a hair pillow or a folded sheet, the bowels having been opened with a saline laxative, should be instructed to wash out the vagina every two hours with an injec- tion of a pint or two of soap and water—or, if that prove irritating, with an alkaline solution—to follow this with a pint of simple water, and to conclude with the use of a pint of some medicated solution, preferably at this stage one of acetate of lead. This at first sight seems like a tedious and rather for- midable procedure, but it is really very easy of accomplishment, and requires but a few moments for its performance. Before using the injection, the patient may, if she choose, move to a lounge, or preferably to an old blanket spread upon the floor. She should employ a Davidson’s or Mattson’s “ family” syringe, using the long nozzle. This should be greased with a little cosmo- line, and gently inserted into the vagina to its entire extent, the patient lying on her back with the heels drawn up to the buttocks. The rubber tube, to the end of which the leaden sinker is attached, should then be dropped into a basin of water, in which a piece of white Castile soap has been briskly stirred, or into one containing two or three teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of sodium in solution. A bed-pan, a piece of rubber cloth, a big sponge—or, better still, some old muslin or flannel rags — being placed beneath the nates, so as to catch or absorb the overflow, the injection should be given in the usual man- ner, by regularly compressing the India-rubber bulb ; after which, by a simple transference of the sinker to a basin or other vessel of clear water, the soap can be washed out, and the vagina thus prepared for the astringent or seda- tive solution which it is thought best to use. This, having been previously prepared in a wide-mouthed bottle, or another basin, may be given in the same way, and the syringe may then be withdrawn. After a very moderate ex- perience the patient will be able to go through with this process in five or ten minutes, and with perfect comfort. The materials used as injections are various, but belong chiefly to the classes of astringents and antiseptics. In the therapeutic value of the latter in the treatment of vaginitis I have no faith—permanganate of potassium, car- bolic acid, Labarraque’s solution, and others, having seemed to me to be of no more value, except possibly in correcting offensive odors, than as much cold water. I have used them in hospital practice in a sufficient number of cases to be able to pronounce upon this point with some positiveness. In the great majority of cases it will be found best to use at first the acetate of lead, to follow this, as the pain subsides and the inflammation becomes less acute, with alum or the acetate or sulphate of zinc; and when, under this treatment, the pain has entirely disappeared and the discharge has become watery, to pack the vagina with tannin, or to use suppositories, according to circumstances. In prescribing vaginal injections for women, it is always well to order the material in powder, telling the patient how much to dissolve in a given quantity of water. For use in a pint of water, for instance, she should employ of Acetate of lead, one teaspoonful—three drachms. Acetate of zinc, two teaspoonfuls—three drachms. Sulphate of zinc, one teaspoonful—two drachms. Alum, one teaspoonful—two drachms. Tannin, four teaspoonfuls—two drachms. These should be diluted when it is found that they occasion pain. The hot vaginal douche recommended so strongly in various gynaecological conditions by Dr. Emmet, of New York, will sometimes be found of great service in the treatment of vaginitis. Its use should, however, be limited strictly to those cases in which the patient herself recognizes its benefit, and should never be persisted in if it gives pain or is followed by increased fulness with throbbing of the parts; or, as in cases reported by VOL. II.—26