INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAi. 700 lav bursa, laid open in consequence of a sinus of two years’ duration, the result of a puncture tried as a means of cure. It consisted of large cartilage cells imbedded in a dense fibrous matrix. After removal the patient did well, and no recurrence ensued. Chronically inflamed bursae, with much thickened walls, are of course liable to the degenerative changes to which all lowly- organized connective tissue is obnoxious. I say connective tissue, for, as I have already shown by a reported case, the inflammatory products are de- veloped into this, with a few scattered cartilage cells. Hamilton says that such bursae may become calcareous, cretaceous, cartilaginous, or bone-like.1 Indeed, traces of this latter change have been demonstrated by the microscope,2 and a mass of supposed bone has been removed from the post-olecranal bursa.3 There is no reason, a priori, why any of the connective tissue growths should not occur in bursae, such as myxomata, encliondromata, osteomata, lipomata, etc. As the “lipoma arborescens” has been found as a tumor arising from the fringes of tendinous sheaths, and as certain bursae contain analogous adi- pose folds, it is not unlikely that similar growths of bursae may yet be re- ported.4 The fibrous tumors which are solid from the outset, as are certain of those in front of the patella, being probably only one of the later manifestations of syphilis, will be considered when describing syphilitic affections of bursae. After sloughing of a bursa, fungous outgrowths are not uncommon. Pa- pillomata of an epithelial character have also been reported.5 Syphilitic Affections of Burs,®. The syphilitic affections of the bursae have only of late years received any- thing more than the most cursory attention. The writings of the first authors who recognized the fact that venereal diseases attacked the various synovial membranes, do not enable us to determine whether the cases recorded were really syphilitic or merely gonorrhoeal, owing to their simply using the term venereal, but not distinguishing between the two affections. Fabre, Swediaur, Hunter, and Babington were the earliest writers who referred to the fact that certain diseases of the joints occurred in secondary and tertiary syphilis, and, as I shall show presently, these at times coincide with affections of the neigh- boring bursfe. Dupuytren and Bonnet both recognized syphilis as a cause of joint disease. Crocq6 also met with a few cases. Richet, Cullerier, Foliin, Verneuil, Lancereaux, and A. Fournier have published observations to a similar effect. Ricord denies that syphilis does more than influence the course of arthropathies. After a study of the phenomena offered by syphilitic disease of the articular synovial membranes, Verneuil7 first described the effects of secondary syphilis on the sheaths of the extensors of the fingers. Five years after,8 he pointed out that, in tertiary syphilis, various subcutaneous and tendi- nous bursse were the site of gummata. A. Fournier9 has confirmed in the most satisfactory way these statements of M. Verneuil. R. W. Taylor10 and E. L. Iveyes11 have also published series of illustrative cases. Scattered through 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, 1872, p. 469. 2 Pritchett, Trans. Lond. Path. Soc., vol. ii. p. 137. 3 J. Heily, Australian Med. Journal, 1868, vol. xiii. pp. 113—115. 4 Billroth, Surgical Pathology, pp. 498, 499. 5 Dollinger, Archiv f. klin. Chir., Bd. xxii. S. 697, 1878. 6 Traite des Tumours Blanches, etc., 1853. 7 Graz. Hebd. de Medecine et de Chirurgie, 1868. 8 Loc. cit., 1873. 9 Note sur le_s Lesions des Gaines Tendineuses dans la Syphilis Secondaire. (Gaz. Hebd. de Med. et de Chirurg., 1868.) 10 American Journal of Med. Sciences, 1876. 11 American Journal of Syphilography, etc., April, 1871 ; Archives of Dermatology, Jan. 1877, p. 169.