SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 650 attracting the attention of the patient, who regards it as an innocent pimple, or, perhaps correctly, as a wart or mole which lias existed beyond the period of his recollection, as this form of the disease very often has its seat and starting-point in such pre-existing, harmless growths. After a time, however —it may be five, ten, or more years—the disease assumes a more active course. New nodules, resembling the original formation, appear at its edge: minute globular elevations, containing a soft material resembling milia, which may he squeezed out, and are found to consist of masses of epithelial cells. These in turn desquamate, become excoriated, and add to the size of the original crusted lesion. Thus, in time, a circular prominent patch, of a dull-red color and covered with scales and crusts, is formed, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a dime, when eventually the whole central portion softens and is cast oft‘, leaving a shallow, ulcerated surface. Its shape is generally irregu- larly circular, and it is separated from the surrounding skin by a slightly elevated, hard border, which often overlies a deep infiltration. The surface of the ulcer is generally flat, and of a dull-red color, secreting a thin, viscid fluid, which dries into a firm crust. In this way the rodent ulcer is established. Its growth may continue by the same process of development of fresh nodules at its periphery, until it be- comes one or more inches in diameter, characterized, however, to whatever size it attains, by the elevated, sharply-defined, infiltrated border. At any time the ulcer may show a disposition to spontaneous involution, the epithelial new- growtli being cast off by suppuration, or otherwise perishing at its base, and a thin, depressed cicatrix forming in its place. The scar formation may be only partial, however, the ulcer healing in the centre while it progresses peri- pherally, or undergoing a complete cure throughout its extent, with the ex- ception of some portion of its border, which still remains indurated. Until this infiltrated edge is wholly resolved, the activity of the disease at such parts is to be counted upon. Even when the cicatrization seems to be uni- versally complete, it may revive at any point of its periphery. In this way the disease may go on in alternate stages of progress, partial cicatrization, quiescence, and renewed activity for many years, until considerable portions of the skin have been run over in its spread from the original centre, the pa- tient remaining in good health, and the nearest glands being unaffected. At times, more or less pigment is deposited in the border, or scar tissue, espe- cially when the disease affects the scrotum (soot cancer). Except for the dis- figurement which it causes, the prognosis of rodent ulcer may be regarded as not unfavorable, unless it should become the seat of the deep form of epithe- lioma, into which it may at any stage be transformed. Deep-Seated Epithelioma.—This, the nodular form, may, as above stated, be developed from the flat variety, or rodent ulcer, at any period of its existence, or may start primarily in the normal skin. It begins as a firm nodule, as large as a shot or pea, single or multiple, which is felt from the start to in- clude the whole extent of the cutis, and to penetrate at times the subcutane- ous tissues. Its growth is generally very slow, attaining after months, it may be years, the size of a filbert, or perhaps exceeding it, and forming a firm, shining, reddish tumor of a flattened or globular shape, which is at first mova- ble with the skin, but subsequently becomes adherent to the underlying tissues. It may spread peripherally, and affect a considerable portion of the skin, showing itself superficially by an uneven surface, or nodular elevations, or by central depressions produced by the shrinking of the older diseased tissue, and peripherally by a smooth, notched, or abruptly elevated border. Occa- sionally, the small cancroid nodules above described show themselves at the edge of the growth. After a time, it may be months, but in other cases