GONORRHOEA. 332 urethra, is more directly involved in the inflammatory process than the other portions of the penis. The urethritis is not confined solely to the mucous layer of the canal, but extends by contiguity to the submucous connective tissue, and thence continuously to the trabeculae of the erectile tissue of the spongy booty. The lymph, which is exuded in these localities, blocks or fills up the inter-trabecular spaces or meshes containing the intricate venous plexus which, by its engorgement and distension, furnishes the essential mechanical element of normal erection. When, either in response to sexual desire, or as a result of the local irritation of the urethritis, or induced by the contact of accumulated urine with the neck of the bladder, or suddenly occa- sion eol by spasm of the muscles controlling the return of blood from the penis, the organ becomes erect, the corpora cavernosa expand normally and fully, but the blood is unable to find its way into the partially obliterated erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum, which remains rigid and inflexible. The pain along the sides is produced by the pressure on nerves caused by the unnatural position, and that along the under surface by the attempted distension of the inflamed tissue of the spongy body. There is an analogous condition, con- sisting of a chronic circumscribed inflammation of the corpora cavernosa, in which erections are equally painful, but in which the curve is upward; or, if only one cavernous body is involved, the bend is lateral, and toward the affected side. One explanation of the mechanism of chordee attributes the bending of the penis to spasm of the layer of longitudinal muscular fibres said partially to encircle the urethra.1 These, however, are very scanty, are sometimes almost entirety absent, and have no normal functional activity. It is hardly con- ceivable that, even under persistent irritation, they should exert sufficient force to produce the severe and often long-continued bending of the penis found in chordee. Then, too, the characteristic pain in erection is frequently experienced without the least curving of the organ. According to Hilton,2 when the erection occurs suddenly, the cause is spasm of the muscles which control the blood supply to the penis, the spasm being due to irritation of branches of the pudic nerve, which are distributed to the inflamed mucous membrane of the urethra. The sudden and severe erections which occur during sleep are attri- buted by the same author to excito-motor action roused in the spinal cord when it is deprived of the control of the brain. Mr. Hilton also suggests that the greater disten- sion of one side of the penis than of the other, which often occurs, may depend upon a greater amount of irritation on the corresponding side of the urethra. The variety of chordee which is produced by the effusion of inflammatory products into the corpus spongiosum, is considered by him to be quite distinct from the preceding forms.3 This explanation seems as far removed from the truth as that of Mr. Milton, mentioned above. At least, I have never seen any cases which could be distinguished as being due to muscular action. Doubtless erection is prolonged by the tendency of the erectors and compressors to spasm, but that this is in any sense the cause of either the pain or the deformity of chordee cannot, I think, be admitted. Frequent Urination with Yesical Tenesmus is another symptom which occurs about this time in many cases. It generally indicates an extension of the inflammation to the deep urethra, but may exceptionally be due to reflex influence from a disturbance as yet localized at or near the meatus. In either event, the irritability of the neck of the bladder is shown by the inability of that organ to retain more than very small quantities of urine, and by the urgency of the calls to evacuate it, the difficulty in starting the stream, and the bear- 1 Milton, op. cit., p. 184. 2 Lectures on Rest and Pain, 2d ed., p. 255. 3 Hill and Cooper, Venereal Diseases, p. 497.