FROST-BITE. 255 cold, could be endured, and the same is proved by the experience of each Canadian winter. [Various nervous phenomena have been observed as the result of exposure to intense cold. Larrey mentions that many of the survivors of the retreat from Moscow became hemiplegic.1 Peripheral paralysis occasionally follows exposure to cold, the nerves most often affected being the radial and facial. Tourraine, Granjux, Pugibet, and other French military surgeons, describe curious cases of syncope, preceded by excessive redness of the whole body, as the result of cold bathing.] Treatment of Frost-Bite.—The treatment of frost-bite requires great care and caution, in order to bring about in the affected parts a gradual res- toration of sensation, circulation, and heat-producing power. The transition must, of necessity, be slow and progressive, in order to avoid those secondary effects which might retard recovery. In restoring frozen parts, the lowest degree of temperature which can be at first applied is always the safest, and this may be increased slowly, approaching towards the normal standard of the body, as sensibility in the parts is regained. A customary practice in the coldest climates is, first to rub the parts with snow, and in most cases of superficial frost-bite this is productive of beneficial results; or the frozen extremity maybe immersed in iced water, and light friction then applied, so as not to unnecessarily irritate the part. The temperature of the room must at first be low, and the greatest possible care is requisite not to permit the too sudden application of heat, nor even to allow the patient to approach a hot fire. According to Sir Astley Cooper, even the warmth of the bed, in these cases, frequently occasions inflammation, which is extremely liable to run into gangrene. He also confirms the observation of Larrey, that soldiers who have been exposed to severe cold, and have opportunities of warming themselves, suffer the most. When once the general temperature of the body approaches the normal standard, relief may be derived from the use of stimulating embrocations, such as spirit and water, soap-liniment, tincture of arnica, or camphorated spirit. Dr. Moore, of the United States Army, in cases of superficial frost-bite, applied lint saturated with fresh ox-gall, with great benefit. The parts may then be placed in a moderately elevated posi- tion, in a warm room, and covered with cotton-wool, or may, perhaps, be better exposed for a time to the warm air of the apartment. Warm drinks may now be given, with a moderate quantity of stimulant, if necessary. In the event of excessive local reaction, cooling lotions may be applied, and strict attention must be paid to the associated constitutional indications. Dr. Hayes2 relates the following interesting case:— An Esquimau had his leg frozen above the knee-joint, stiff, colorless, and, to all appearances, lifeless. He was placed in a snow-house, at a temperature of 20° below zero (Fahrenheit). The parts were bathed in ice-cold water for about two hours, and then enveloped in furs for three or four hours. Then frictions were used, first with the feathery side of a bird skin, then with snow, alternately wrapping the limb in furs and rubbing it, for nearly twenty-four hours. It was next carefully wrapped up, and the temperature of the snow-house raised by lamps above zero. On the third day, the patient was taken to his house (in the Esquimaux houses there is often a temperature of 70° or 80° F.), and in seventy hours was walking about, with only a slight frost- bite on one of his toes. This case shows how much may be accomplished with care and persever- ance, even under the most adverse circumstances. It is a well-known fact that the whole surface of the body becomes less Op. cit., t. iv. p. 134. Paris, 1817. 2 Boston Medical Journal, vol. lvii. p. 48.