SYPHILIS. 584 may be said in these cases to run a definite course, and to exhaust itself in the course of perhaps eighteen months or so, on an average, under judicious treatment. Now and then some slight localized eruption may appear subse- quently, but in a majority of cases no lesions which can be called contagious make their appearance. While it is true that mild early symptoms do not insure the patient against the occurrence of late visceral lesions, yet a case of benign syphilis which has been carefully treated is not one where wife or children are apt to sutler if the patient allows a sufficient time to elapse after the appearance of the last lesions, before marrying. In the few cases of this kind which I have had under complete control from the beginning, I have permitted marriage after eighteen months of treatment, followed by from six months to a year of immunity, and I have followed up the history of several persons thus permitted to marry, and have known them to procreate healthy children. But even benign syphilis, if not treated at an early period, and thoroughly, tends to relapse, and I should not be inclined to authorize marriage in a pa- tient, particularly a woman, who had taken mercury irregularly, and who had suffered a number of relapses. Such cases are those in which healthy and diseased children are procreated alternately for a series of years, as the patient may or may not be under the influence of mercury at the time of conception. But in cases of more severe syphilis, where the earlier symptoms are pus- tular instead of erythematous, where the disease is stubborn to the influ- ence of mercury, and where there is a tendency to relapse and to ulceration, I should be inclined to prolong the treatment very considerably, not permit- ting the patient to marry until eighteen months or two years after the disap- pearance of all outward signs of disease, and the cessation of a mercurial course which had also lasted for at least eighteen months or two years, making about four years in all. This practically amounts almost to a prohibition, but if the physician is not firm in these cases, he may have cause to bitterly regret his complaisance at a subsequent date. Patients will marry, if they decide to do so, in spite of the doctor’s warning; but it is a thousand times better to risk the reputation of over-cautiousness, than to have a diseased being brought into the world, which has been begotten under the sanction of the physician. Regarding the fourth proposition, which is closely connected with that just discussed, the question here is pushed farther, and it is desired to know what injury can occur to the children of a parent who has had syphilis long before his marriage, who presents no signs of the disease afterwards, and whose offspring in consequence cannot be expected to show any of the symp- toms of syphilis in its ordinary form. Can the syphilitic taint so influence such offspring as to induce rickets, scrofula, and the like ? In answer to this question I should say that not only is it contrary to all our experience that one disease should give rise to another entirely distinct from it, but that in spite of the fascination which this theory of scrofula as a derivative of syphi- lis has exercised over the minds of able observers, it has never been possible to bring forward a sufficient number of cases in proof of the theory to con- vince those who had not previously made up their minds on the subject. No, as has been said in the earlier part of this article, syphilis is a distinct entity, and can beget syphilis alone. It may appear alongside of scrofula, and may run a parallel course with that affection. It may predispose by its cachectic influence to the development of the so-called scrofulous maladies, or the scro- fulous taint may cause the subject to suffer the severer ravages of syphilis. But as for a combination such has been fancied, analogous to that between two chemical elements (e. g. the “ scrofulate of syphilis,” of Devergie), this has never been shown to exist.