WHITE GANGRENE. 303 acid, in proportion of one to twenty, has replaced it as a detergent and antiseptic. The internal remedies required are only those directed to the maintenance of the general health and to the relief from suffering. Opium is obviously indicated, though it is difficult to believe that it possesses any specific powder in promoting the capillary circulation, as has been asserted. That the secretions should be promoted when they become scanty, as is apt to be the case when nature is struggling with this disease, is an obvious dictate of common therapeutics. The constipating effects of the opiate should be counteracted, though cathartics are not indicated. Diuretics, such as the acetate or citrate of potassium, should be exhibited and continued until the high color of the urine disappears. The use of tonics, when the appetite wanes, is clearly proper; but no loading of the stomach with bark or quinine, as possessing specific properties in aiding the circulation, can be properly recommended. Among the remedies that have been used to arrest the progress of senile gangrene, have been baths of oxygen gas, which it was hoped might main- tain the vitality of the cell in the languid condition of the circulation. Two cases are on record in which a favorable result was obtained. But as the disease at times becomes spontaneously arrested, little confidence can be placed in a remedy that does not reach the cause. The practice certainly has not ob- tained currency. The use of warm water is as beneficial in this form of gangrene as in any other. After the red line is well formed in senile gangrene, the removal of the limb is justified by its necessity, but seldom succeeds in its intent. The shock of the operation, added to the local irritation, usually results in recur- rence in the flaps. Even when the stump heals, the succeeding winter is apt to re-establish the gangrenous condition. Nevertheless permanent re- sults are sometimes obtained, and little else can be done. To choose the exact point of time when the most favorable condition for interference exists, will task the judgment of the surgeon. Before the slough separates, the depression from septicaemia is a forbidding circumstance. If we wait too long, the copious suppuration is a depressing cause, and delay is also accom- panied with dangers from septicaemia. After the red line forms, there is usually an improvement of the general condition, which it would be de- sirable to take at its height for so serious an operation as amputation. White Gangrene. This is a rare condition, and there has been a little confusion among patho- logists in regard to its definition. Rokitansky applies the term to the white appearance of sloughs, such as the denuded membranous expansions of sub- jacent tissues, and also to that of the sloughing peritoneum at the base of intestinal ulcers. Again, he says it is generated by the necrosis of textures replete with fibrino-croupous exudates. I cannot think that such conditions should receive this peculiar appellation. They do not require special classi- fication. Their color is accidental, and not characteristic. The true white gangrene is a special condition of great obscurity as regards its cause, and of great rarity. Very few surgeons have ever seen it, but the description of those who have, leaves no doubt of its peculiar character. By some authors it has been thought to be rather an incident of age, but this is decidedly erroneous. It is never a condition of senile gangrene. On the contrary, it appears in early adult life. The cause would seem to be constitutional, one attack being followed by others, and the intervals some-