SYPHILIS. 586 with the view of arresting the spread of the disease, at least at one of its sources. The first method of prophylaxis has proved a failure, because the disease contracted by syphilization is precisely the same as that gained in other ways, both in character and degree. The second has been tried in various localities with varying results, but with as yet no decided advantage to the community at large, except in the case of some garrison towns in England, where a de- cided lessening of syphilis has been the result. The question of the regulation of prostitution must inevitably be dis- cussed in connection with that of the prevention of syphilis, and here of necessity the moralist must be interested as well as the physician. If pro- stitution could but be looked at from a purely medical standpoint, and only in its relation to the production of syphilitic disease, the matter would he greatly simplified. As it cannot be so in the present state of human nature, and as the moralist and theologian consider it as much within their province as that of the physician, the problem is much complicated, and must, I think, in the end, be solved by taking into consideration both points of view. Unfortunately there has been a controversy here upon points on which no controversy as it appears to me is necessary, and both sides have dealt largely in vituperation where cold facts alone are required or can be at all convincing. Almost every contribution to the subject has been made with the view of proving a pre-supposed theory, rather than of indifferently recording facts no matter what conclusions may be drawn from them. For this reason I consider that the time has not yet come to advocate the regulation of prostitution, at least in our American cities, where the muni- cipal government, already notoriously inefficient, would certainly be unable to devise a satisfactory method of coping with the evil, and where a break- down in the administration of the law would be worse than having no law at all.1 1 The following works and papers, chiefly of a statistical character, may be referred to as giving information especially with regard to the prevention of syphilis in European countries :— Lecour, C. J., De la Prostitution et des measures de police dont elle est l’objet a Paris, etc. (Arch. Gen. de Med., t. ii. p. 711 et 736, 1867). Id., La Prostitution a Paris et it Londres de 1789 it 1870. Paris, 1870. Crocq et Rollet, Prophylaxie Internationale des Maladies Veneriennes (Ann. de Derm, et de Sypli., t. i. p. 353, 1869). Cambas, De la Prophylaxie de la Syphilis (El SigloMed. Translated in Annales de Derm, et de Sypli., t. iii., 1871-72). Nevins, J. B., Protection from Venereal Diseases in America (Sanitarian, vol. viii. p. 252). IIong-Kong, 1878 (contagious diseases ordinance). Return to an address of the House of Commons, Feb. 13, 1880, for copy of report of the Commissioners to inquire into the workings of the Contagious Diseases Ordinance, 1867 (ordered by the House of Commons to be printed, March 11, 1880). London, 1880. Thomson, W., Some Results of the Contagious Disease Acts (Med. Press and Circ., N. S., vol. xxxii., 1879, p. 341). Gihon, A. L., Report of the Committee on the Prevention of Venereal Disease, presented at the eighth annual meeting of the American Public Health Association. New Orleans, 1880. Sturgis, F. R., Relations of Syphilis to the Public Health. New York, 1877. Sims, J. Marion, Legislation and Contagious Diseases. Phila., 1876. Vintras, A., On the repressive measures adopted in Paris, compared with the uncontrolled prostitution of London and New YTork. London, 1867. Henry, M. H., Discussion on the Prevention of Syphilis at the Int. Med. Congress at Vienna, 1873, with remarks (Am. Jour. Syph. and Derm., vol. v., 1874, p. 17). Swayze, G. H., Shall the spread of Syphilitic Poison be prevented ? (Phila. Med. and Surg. Re- porter, Oct. 6, 1877). The Regulation of Prostitution as a Sanitary Measure (Editorial, Med. Record, vol. xvi., 1879, p. 205). White, J. Wm., The Prevention of Syphilis : an address prepared at the request of the Phila- delphia County Medical Society, and read before it Dec. 14, 1881 (Phila. Medical Times, Jan. 14, 1882). This last is an especially able review of the entire subject from a point of view favorable to the regulation of prostitution.