HYPERTROPHIES. €21 seat may be almost any part of the cutaneous surface. They most commonly are found upon the scalp and face, but have in several instances been observed upon the glans penis. Although affecting both sexes mostly after middle life, they occasionally originate between the twentieth and thirtieth years. They are of slow growth, and cause little trouble, except when, on account of their excessive length or situation, they are liable to frequent knocks; in which case they may be more or less detached from their seat, or may even be wholly torn away. When the latter takes place, they are almost always reproduced. Their base is also the seat at times of inflammation and pain from violence to the horn itself. The anatomy of these growths is simple. Thei’e are hyperplasy and cornification of the epidermal cells, with more or less hypertrophy of the underlying papillae; examined by the microscope, the cells are seen to form greatly elongated columns arranged in concentric form around what, as the result of drying and hardening, has become' a central tubular cavity, transverse sections resembling the peculiar epithelial grouping in epithelioma. The hypertrophied papillae are often found extending up into the horn for considerable distances with enlarged vessels, as would indeed seem necessary for the rapid development which these growths sometimes assume. In some cases, the horn may take its origin, not from the papillae and over-lying surface-rete, but from the inversion of the latter which forms the lining of the sebaceous glands. Thus an old sebaceous cyst may become the starting point and base of a horn. Condylomata and other warty growths may also develop into horns, and the bases of these, in turn, as of other keratoses, may become the seat of epithelioma. Treatment.— Owing to the strong tendency exhibited by these growths to repeated reproduction after spontaneous or accidental removal, their simple excision by the knife does not result in permanent cure, unless the base or papillary matrix be removed at the same time to a considerable depth. In place of the latter step, it is sufficient and more simple, after pulling off the horn, to thoroughly cauterize the base with caustic potassa or chloride of zinc. If the growth originate from an atheromatous cyst, the walls of the latter are to be dissected out, or entirely destroyed by cauterizing them in the same way. Warts. (Synonym: Verracce.)—Warts are firm elevations of various shapes upon the surface of the skin, due to hypertrophy both of its papillary and epidermal layers. Several distinct kinds are recognized. The ordinary variety, Verruca vulgaris, as it is termed, occurs mostly upon the hands of children, although it may affect any age, and may be met with in other parts of the surface, in the form of flattened or semi-globular elevations, varying in size from that of a mustard-seed to that of a dime. At first of the color of the surrounding skin, and little harder than the same, warts become firmer with their growth, and their surface assumes somewhat the appearance in roughness and color of a callus. As their elevation becomes more marked, the overlying epidermis may disappear, leaving the greatly elongated papillae capped by hardened, epidermal cells, to project as a group of pointed cones surrounded by a wall of thickened cuticle. This is the “ seed wart” of popu- lar language. The interspaces between the points of the papillae retain the dirt, and allow the wart to assume on this account a diversity of colorings. It may remain in this or any of its earlier phases of development for an in- definite period, and is capable of spontaneous disappearance at any stage. Warts of this kind may appear singly, or in great numbers, and may attain a considerable size with much rapidity. The backs of the hands and fingers, for instance, may present a hundred or more at one time. If left to them- selves, they cause no trouble except from their unsightliness, and undergo