588 VENEREAL WARTS OR VEGETATIONS. diathesis which predisposes to glandular inflammations from other causes. Follin, like Cullerier, suggests that the bubon demblee is independent of con- tagion, and is simply due to the fatigue of violent intercourse. An examination of the literature of this subject will, I think, convince any one that the existence of the bubon demblee•, in the original acceptation of the term, cannot now be acknowledged, for none of the reported cases are free from the chance of error; in no case does constitutional syphilis start from this lesion, and the results of inoculation of its pus are negative. What, therefore, is called the bubon d’emblee must be considered as either a simple adenitis, due to irritation; an inflammation of the glands due to pre-existence of a chancre or chancroid which has escaped observation, or which has healed before the glandular affection has become marked; or a gummatous affection of the glands occurring during the course of syphilis. Dr. Sturgis reports a case of the latter affection which closely resembles many of the recorded examples of bubon demblee, and I have myself had a case under observation in which symmetrical buboes occurred without apparent cause, in a patient who had been for some time suffering from constitutional syphilis, and in whom the inguinal affection rapidly disappeared under con- stitutional treatment. Mauriac1 reports three cases of gummatous inflamma- tion of the inguinal glands, and Verneuil2 has observed several cases of the same nature. Treatment.—The treatment of the so-called bubon demblee consists, first, in putting the patient at rest, and then making counter-irritation around the inflamed area with tincture of iodine, after the manner of Mr. Jordan, apply- ing the drug not over the affected part, but over the “next vascular area;” poultices may also be applied, and, if the inflammation goes on to suppuration, a free incision should be made as soon as the presence of pus can be detected. From the fact that these buboes frequently occur in persons of strumous or debilitated constitutions, tonics are indicated, and of these, cod-liver oil and iron are to be preferred; the use of iodide of iron, either in the form of the syrup or of the officinal pill, is often followed by the most satisfactory results. In cases which point to a gummatous inflammation of the glands of the groin, the administration of the iodide of potassium will generally effect a rapid cure, and preclude the necessity of any operative interference. Venereal Warts or Vegetations. Venereal Warts or Vegetations are highly vascular, papillary growths, springing from the mucous membrane or the skin; they occur most fre- quently on the genital organs, and are identical in their nature with warts seen in other parts of the body. “ They are exceedingly vascular, and are made up of connective tissue elements, which make a mass of firm consis- tence ; the papillfe are much hypertrophied, and are covered with an exten- sive mucous layer; the horny layer may be found developed in warts in cer- tain localities.”3 FTature of Vegetations.—The term “venereal” is not, strictly speaking, correct, as these growths are sometimes seen in children, in pregnant women free from venereal taint, and in persons who have never had sexual inter- course, seeming, in these cases, to arise from the irritation produced by the 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, 1879. 2 Hill, op. cit., p. 203. 3 Duliring, Diseases of the Skin, p. 467.