DIAGNOSIS OF CHRONIC URETHRAL DISCHARGES. 357 314). The shoulder of the bulb should join the shaft at almost a right angle, and not with the large obtuse angle often found in improperly shaped instruments. The size selected for exploration should be determined ap- proximately in the manner already mentioned, by noting the circumference of the flaccid penis. The scale which I have adopted for use, and which dif- fers from that published by Dr. Otis in giving a lower grade of numbers, is as follows:— A penis 3 inches in circumference at the middle of the spongy portion, indicates a urethra which should normally admit an instrument of about 26 to 28 millimetres in size ; when it is 3^ inches, the urethra should have a calibre of from 28 to 30 mm. ; 3-| inches, 30 to 32 mm.; 3| inches, 32 to 34 mm. ; 4 inches, 34 to 36 mm., beyond which size it is seldom necessary to go. If the meatus be too small to admit of the introduction of a bulbous bougie of the required size, it should be enlarged. The penis should then be grasped just behind the corona, and held gently between the thumb and finger of the left hand, the foreskin if redundant having been retracted. The dorsum of the penis should face the abdominal wall. The bougie well oiled should then be passed gently into the bladder. If arrested, the point on the shaft corresponding to the meatus should be marked, the distance from that to the bulb representing the position of the anterior face of the stricture. If that instrument or a smaller size passes through, it should then after a moment’s delay be withdrawn, and if during its outward passage any contraction is found other than that at the triangular ligament, which has been shown1 to be normal, it is probably due to stricture—though spasm, which often relaxes after a few seconds, or shifts its position in the canal, as measured from the meatus, may give rise to errors in diagnosis. It cannot always with certainty be recognized. If the urethral discharge in the case undergoing examination be due to chronic gonorrhoea, the instrument will reveal a sensitive, rough- ened spot, but will impart no distinct sensation of resistance. In either case there will usually be some pus brought out on the shoulder of the bulb. In chronic gonorrhoea, this is apt to be stained with a few drops of blood. The treatment of these conditions will be considered elsewhere, but as regards diagnosis, we may now bring together the main points of difference between the various chronic urethral discharges. Urethral Catarrh. Follows immediately on sub- sidence of gonorrhoea. Discharge watery; thin mucus. Not much affected by habits. No subjective symptoms. Affects no special portion of the urethra. Chronic Gonorrhoea. Continuous with attack of gonorrhoea, often a first one Discharge creamy ; pus. Greatly aggravated by ex- cess in drink or by sex- ual excitement. Warmth or scalding on uri- nation ; very slight ten- dency to chordee. Lingers chiefly about the navicular fossa and the bulbo-membranous junc- tion. Gleet. Usually a variable interval after subsidence of gon- orrhoea ; generally after several attacks. Discharge milky or milk- and-watery; muco-pus. Increased by same causes, but not to the same de- gree. Dribbling after urination ; frequency of urination; hypogastric and lumbar pains. Source of the discharge al- ways back of the coarcta- tion. 1 Diagnosis of Urethral Stricture by Bulbous Bougies. By J. William White, M.D. Philadel- phia, 1877.