SYPHILIS. 536 Bloodvessels.—Syphilitic lesions of the veins are so rare as to be practi- cally almost unknown. Gosselin1 has reported two cases where small gum- mata were found in the connective tissue of the external covering of the saphenous veins, forming painful cord-like tumors under the skin. The syphilitic lesions of the arteries are primary or secondary (that is, result- ing from lesions in the immediate vicinity). Verneuil, according to Jullien, gives a case of the latter variety, where perforation with excessive hemorrhage resulted from the extension of a phagedenic ulcer. The tissues surrounding the artery and its own coats were involved. Primary syphilitic disease of the arteries is commonest in the smaller vessels of the brain. Pathologically the affection consists in a thickening of the arterial walls by an infiltration of small cells, especially into the tunica intima. The process differs from ordinary atheroma by its most common localization in the smaller arteries; by its more rapid extension, making as much progress in months as atheroma does in years ; by its tendency to narrow the calibre of the vessels, while atheroma tends to dilatation with thinning of the vascular walls. Syphilitic lesions of the bloodvessels betray their presence by the trophic visceral affections to which they give occasion. Obliteration of the carotid causes pain in the head, epileptic attacks, and enfeeblement of the cerebral functions, followed by coma and death. In cases where the cerebral arteries, strictly so-called, are involved, severe headache, almost always frontal, worst at night, and joined to various alterations in the psychical functions and those of the organs of sense, shows ischaemia of the brain, and serves as a prodrome of coming mis- chief. At a later stage an apoplectic attack, with or without loss of con- sciousness, and more or less loss of motion, or more frequently with aphasia, unilateral paralysis, etc., shows the indirect influence of syphilitic vascular disease. Delirium may also supervene. The diagnosis of syphilitic arteritis must be made with the aid of the pa- tient’s history. The prognosis is a matter of grave importance; the question whether syphilis may be a cause of aneurism has for some time engaged attention, and has been at length decided positively in the affirmative.2 Syphilis of the Lymphatic Vessels and Ganglia. Syphilis may affect the lymphatic vessels and ganglia both in its earlier and later stages. The adenitis accompanying chancre has already been men- tioned. It is limited to the vessels and ganglia in the immediate neighbor- hood of the initial lesion, and as it often lasts until after every trace of the chancre has disappeared, it may at times serve as an important aid to diag- nosis in difficult cases. The adenitis accompanying the early generalized outbreak of syphilitic symptoms appears at various points simultaneously, the glandular engorge- ment being most marked in the sub-occipital, mastoid, epitrochlear and sub- maxillary regions. Its appearance is contemporaneous with that of the earliest syphilitic eruptions, that is, from the sixth to the twelfth week of the disease. It has been asserted indeed that the glandular engorgement is due to the influence of the eruption, but this is disproved by the fact that it may occur without the presence of any skin manifestation. The generalized glandular engorgement is very much the same in appear- ance and symptoms as the localized glandular involvement of chancre. The 1 According to Jullien, who gives no reference. 2 See Wilks and Moxon, Lectures on Pathological Anatomy ; Lancereaux, Arterite Syphi- litique (Gaz. des Hop., No. 21, 187(1).