60 WOUNDS. from the retention of some irritating fluid in the depths of the wound, from want of proper drainage. This is more likely to occur in wounds of certain parts or tissues—as in wounds of joints, wouffds of large cavities, and deep, punctured wounds—than in lesions of another character. The asthenic form of inflammation, as a rule, attacks wounds at a more advanced period; when the flrst effort at natural repair has been made, and has more or less succeeded, and when it might seem as if the effort to repair the part, and the power to effect that repair, were not commensurate. At any rate, in the treatment of these two forms of inflammation, when attacking wounds, it will be safe to assume that such is the fact; for while in the acute or sthenic variety, a local cause for its production should be looked for, in order that it may be remedied—in the asthenic, or later kind, the recognition of the fact that the inflammation is due to a deficiency of general power, is all important. Treatment of Inflammation Affecting Wounds.—In the sthenic form of in- flammation, the local and general action is to be subdued by giving free vent to pent-up fluids; by the local employment of ice, or of some other means of applying cold; by the local abstraction of blood; and by free purgation. For the latter purpose, there is nothing better, after a good purge, than re- peated small doses of a saline cathartic, such as Epsom salts. When suppura- tion takes place, it must be actively dealt with. In the asthenic form, general tonics, with stimulants and nutritious food, are essential; and locally,absolute cleanliness, the free exposure of the wound for purpose of drainage, with, possibly, warm medicated irrigation, and the constant use of such stimulating antiseptic applications as the nature of the case may suggest. Cold, locally applied, is rarely beneficial. Diseases of Granulations.—When an open wound heals, or a cavity fills up with reparative material, it does so by a process of granulation; and when this process takes place in a healthy subject, and under favorable conditions, the granulations present certain appearances, and are known as healthy granu- lations. When, however, the same kind of repair is being effected in a feeble or diseased subject, or under circumstances which are not favorable for its progress, the granulations present different appearances, these being, as it were, 'pathological, in contradistinction to those which are seen when the ordinary physiological process of repair is being carried out; a process which is very closely allied to, if not identical with, that of development and growth. In a healthy granulating surface, the granulations appear as small, conical masses of granulation tissue, covered with a thin layer of pus cells. The granulations are of a bright, florid red color, and are fringed at their skin border with the well-known, thin, blue line which is so indicative of healthy “skinning” or cicatrization; and during the whole of the healing process, this appearance is maintained, the only visible change being the gradual diminu- tion of the granulating surface by the steady approach of the thin, blue line towards the centre. Some wounds undergo contraction at the rate of from one to one and a half inches a week. The skin around a healthy granulating surface will be healthy. In these granulations, and in their different appearances under diverse cir- cumstances, the educated eye of the surgeon can rapidly read, not only every important change in the bodily condition of the patient, but almost every variation, from day to day, in the patient’s condition, for a granulating surface is, as I have been in the habit of describing it, a kind of weather glass or ba- rometer of health; the surgeon cannot only read in it, as long as it maintains its healthy aspect, that the man who bears it is healthy, and that his different systems—nervous, secretory, and excretory—are doing their duty in a normal