397 URETHRITIS. occurs, the pus becomes mingled with blood, the pain is considerably increased, and the disease assumes a very obstinate and rebellious form. Chronic Vaginitis.—In the chronic variety of vaginitis the presence of the discharge, thickening of the vaginal mucous membrane, and enlargement of its papillae, are almost the only symptoms to be met with. Vow and then a case is seen in which the inflammation has become strictly localized, a small patch of strawberry red granulations being found, analogous to those seen in the urethra in chronic gonorrhoea, and on other mucous membranes, as the conjunctiva, where inflammation assumes this form. Cases of chronic vaginitis in young persons are observed in which the vagina is hard and small, its rugae well seen, but yet evidently swollen, cedematous, and with either no secretion or covered over by an old, grayish-white accu- mulation of epithelial detritus. Urethritis. Causes.—Urethritis in the female is commonly classed as a venereal affec- tion, and is unquestionably due in a majority of cases to extension of inflam- mation from the vulva or vagina. As in such instances the original disease may, as has been shown, be entirely non-venereal in its origin, and as there are in addition certain forms of urethral inflammation associated with and dependent upon bladder disease, pregnancy, malposition of the uterus, etc., it is certainly very unsafe to assume that any woman with a urethritis has necessarily acquired it by contagion, and as a result of exposure to the discharge resulting from a similar inflammation in a person of the opposite sex. Dr. S. F. Carpenter* reports a case of cysto-urethritis of three years’ standing in a woman who was at the same time affected with hemorrhoids and pin-worms. Measures directed against these latter troubles resulted in a complete cure of the urinary disorder within two months, it having previously resisted many other methods of treatment. It may be admitted, however, that the existence of a urethritis in a female is presumptive evidence of impure connection, particularly in those cases in which it exists independently of any vulvar or vaginal affection. When these regions are involved, the question of original causation reverts to them, as their inflammations almost invariably precede the urethral trouble. As to the frequency of the forms of gonorrhoea thus described, there have been con- siderable differences of opinion among distinguished authorities. Belhomme and Martin found urethritis in 112 out of 1607 patients; Weibert recognized it in 29 out of 175 cases; Cullerier found it in one-fifth of his cases; Langlebert and Swediaur co- incide in their observations and believe it to be very rare; on the other hand, Bell, Ricord, Guerin, Rollet, Berkeley Hill, and Bumstead, speak of it as a not infrequent complication. Sigmund found urethritis and vaginitis combined in 476 cases; vagi- nitis without urethritis in 282 cases, and urethritis alone without any concomitant in- flammation in only five cases. Jullien gives the following table furnished to him by M. Fournier, from the service of the latter at the Lourcine. Vaginitis, . 176 Urethritis, 150 Vulvitis, Urethro-vaginitis, 22 81 Urethro-vulvitis, 5 Total, 434 1 Kansas Medical Index, July, 1881.