608 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. ♦ wider areas, in consequence of scratching, or may be developed upon dis- tant regions which have come in indirect contact with the arnica by the agency of the hands. The affection follows a very regular course in the character, distribution, and duration of its lesions, differing materially in some of these respects from the wayward manifestations peculiar to the action of rhus. Like the latter, arnica must be regarded as an irritant poison when applied to the skin, but of less intensity and of less certainty in its action. Its properties reside in an acrid resin and volatile oil. The appearances which follow its use are, no doubt, often mistaken for the immediate effect, or for the sequelae, of the injury or other affection for which it has been ap- plied. Even the physician sometimes fails to recognize the artificial nature of the eczema which he is called to treat, and to connect it with the prior application of arnica to the skin. The almost universal belief in the harm- lessness of the remedy, too, prevents, in most cases, the patient from com- municating to the physician the fact of its use before the appearance of the disease. Cases have been recorded in which the inflammation extended below the skin, producing destruction of the tissues. The treatment is the same as that in an eczema of the same grade (page 614). The excessive oedema and hypersemia require that the leg, if this be the part affected, should be kept in a horizontal position, and that cold, evaporating lotions should he assiduously employed. The course of the der- matitis under treatment is ordinarily brief. Medicinal Rashes. Under this title may be mentioned Dermatitis venenata, as also those forms of inflammation of the skin which follow not only the application to its sur- face, but the internal administration, of certain drugs used in the treatment of disease. These can be only very briefly considered. * I. External Applications. The substances included in this class do not comprise those which are used in medicine for the express purpose of producing a greater or less degree of dermal inflammation—the so-called rubefacients and vesicants, such as mus- tard, cantharicles, croton oil, tartar emetic, etc.—but those only which are ap- plied to the skin for other purposes. Arsenic.—The action of arsenical compounds upon the cutaneous tissues varies greatly in intensity. Among the milder effects of such contact, are the hypersemia and papulation produced by the application of the pastes, con- sisting largely of arsenic and quicklime, so commonly used for the removal of superfluous hairs upon the faces of women, and the more extensive and severe forms of dermatitis produced by wearing garments dyed with arsenical pig- ments, varying in intensity from simple congestion to vesicular and bullous lesions. It is not improbable that such sources of cutaneous inflammation are often overlooked, as arsenic is now largely used in the preparation of coloring matters, not only for garments worn, next the skin, hut for ladies’ cloths, carpets, hangings, etc. Wall papers, wrapping papers, and playing cards containing arsenic, have caused similar effects upon the skin. The severer forms of inflammation produced by the action of this substance upon the hands of workmen employed in the manufacture of the above-named articles, are well known; they are pustular, ulcerative, and gangrenous in character. This very destructive power of arsenic upon the cutaneous tissues is, as is