ARROW WOUNDS. Ill The removal of an arrow head after the shaft has been separated from it, is always difficult, and frequently impossible. The ancient writers rather made light of arrow heads hidden in the tissues, and there are, in the Army Medi- cal Museum, at Washington, specimens of flint arrow heads, lodged and encapsuled in bone. But who can say what trouble these foreign bodies may not have given during life, and whether they may not have been, indirectly at least, the cause of death ? In my own experience, as well as in that of several of my colleagues, the lodgment of an iron arrow head in soft tissues or in bone, will ultimately produce fatal mischief. I have never seen an arrow head left behind after the withdrawal of its shaft, but it sooner or later required removal, to preserve limb or to save life. In 1862, in an article which I published in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, I wrote: “ An arrow head cannot become encysted like a ball; it presents too many sharp angles and edges, and is generally too irritating for any such event to be expected The inflammation it produces is the effort of nature to throw off the foreign body.” I might have added that this inflammation will continue as long as the patient lives, unless the foreign body be thrown off by nature, or removed by art. The case of the late General (then Lieutenant) Bayard, of the IT. S. Cavalry, as narrated by Dr. C. A. Pope,1 may be quoted in illustration of this doctrine, and may serve to exemplify the characteristics of a case of arrow wound in which the head has lodged:— The spear-shaped iron point, two and three-quarter inches long, . . . entered the face a little below the orbit, and was completely embedded up to the shoulder, the small neck alone remaining in the flesh. Its direction was backwards and slightly outwards. The surgeon of the Post immediately endeavored to extract the foreign body ; . . . various means with forceps were resorted to, and, after a trial of two hours, the effort of extraction was abandoned. The absence of a suitable instrument, the slight hold which could be obtained on tbe offending body, and, above all, the firm impaction, sufficiently accounted for the failure. (Slight secondary hemorrhage from the nose followed within a few weeks, and again a more serious bleeding occurred while the patient was on his way home.) The patient arrived at St. Louis five weeks after the receipt of the injury, and I visited him immediately. There was some enlargement of the left side of the face. The wound on the cheek had skinned over, so that no foreign substance could be seen; . . . a muco-purulent discharge, which came doubtless from the antrum, issued from the corresponding nostril. On incising the im- perfect cicatrix, I felt the small neck, and, supposing that the arrow head, after so long a time, might be loosened, I attempted its extraction with the dressing forceps of my pocket case, but failed. I at once supplied myself with instruments of various kinds, but succeeded in the first attempt with powerful forceps. A smart hemorrhage from the nostril and external wound immediately followed. By rest, cold, the administration of opium, plugging, and bandaging, the bleeding was soon arrested. The case now seemed to progress favorably, and the patient was able to get about the streets. On a visit to my office, he complained of a stiffness and inability to open his jaws as widely as usual—a difficulty indeed which had existed all along, and which was the result of the general thickening of the parts from inflammatory exudation. I advised him to make gentle efforts to open the mouth. In less than an hour from this time, his troubles commenced. The whole cheek became hot, swollen, and painful. High fever with renewed bleeding set in, and caused me much anxiety. The means which before were successful, now failed. Extensive extravasation of blood took place, and, to relieve the tension, I made an incision in the mouth, and others on the cheek and neck, thus allowing the discharge of large grumous clots. The hemorrhage continuing at intervals, occurring with regularity about twelve o’clock on three successive nights, and the patient being reduced to the lowest point of safety, I determined to tie the carotid artery with- out delay. This was done by candle-light on the night of the 16th of September, two 1 St. Louis Medical Journal, 1864, p. 12, and Hamilton’s Military Surgery, p. 544.