SYPHILIS. 506 grayish or yellowish tint, it is covered with rough transverse or longitudinal ridges, and its free border may he bent and horn-like, or it may be thickened and squared oft* with a rough laminated edge. One or more nails may be affected. Commonly this affection runs a course pari-passu with the other early, generalized symptoms,the diseased nail tissue being gradually replaced by healthier structure as the general system recovers its tone under the in- fluence of constitutional treatment. Now and then it runs a slower course, and, being stubborn to both general and local treatment, persists for months after other symptoms have disappeared. A third form of onyxis is that in which, the matrix being involved, a part or the whole of the nail is detached from its bed, and is gradually separated and shed. Not infrequently the nail is first separated at its root, and is then carried gradually forward, leaving the rough and hardened mat- rix imperfectly covered with a corneous growth behind. Regeneration gra- dually takes place, and in time, with the improvement of the general health under treatment, a healthy nail takes the place of the diseased one. None of the affections of the nails above described are painful, and they are important chiefly on account of the deformity to which they give rise, and as indicative of the general state of the system. Perionyxis.—When a syphilitic papule is developed in the cutaneous fold bordering the nail, the hypertrophied epidermis becomes fissured and more or less horny, and exfoliates, forming a sort of dry, squamous perionyxis which is painless, and which, although extremely persistent, gives no trouble unless picked and irritated by the patient, when it may develop ulceration. Another form of perionyxis begins by a peri-ungual swelling like an ordinary “ run- around the extremity of the member becomes more or less enlarged, and of a dull currant or coppery color. The process, which is a sub-inflammatory one, goes on slowly and without pain, in this respect differing from the acute, painful course of the “ run-around.” It never terminates in an abscess, usually ending in resolution, but sometimes ulcerates superficially, forming ulcerative perionyxis. Ulcerative perionyxis is characterized by a loss of substance of variable extent and degree, affecting the border, sides, or free extremity of the nail, or pulp of the member. The ulcer has an unhealthy aspect, being covered with sanious sanguinolent pus, and the swollen tissues in the neighborhood are dusky and more or less livid. This form of perionyxis when occurring in the toes is easily confounded with ingrowing toe-nail, but the extent of the swelling, its indolent character, and the extension of the ulceration serve to mark the syphilitic character of the lesion. The perionyxis may be com- plicated by onyxis, the nail separating entirely or in part, and the member becoming greatly enlarged, and covered with ulcerating and fungous granula- tions. After a considerable period, reparation takes place, with the entire or partial restitution of the nail, which is rarely normal in appearance; or, when the matrix has been nearly destroyed, a rough, hard, knobby surface remains in place of the normal nail. The treatment of the dry form of onyxis and of perionyxis is the general treatment of the early stage of syphilis. The inflammatory form is best treated by occlusion with the Emplastrum de Vigo,1 and by use of the ordinary 1 The Emplastrum de Vigo, formerly extensively employed, is composed of lead plaster, 2 lbs. 8 oz.; yellow wax and resin, each 2 oz.; ammoniac, bdellium, olibanum, and myrrh, each 5 dr.; saffron, 3 dr.; mercury, 12 oz.; turpentine, 2 oz.; liquid storax, 6 oz.; oil of lavender, 2 dr. The gum, resin, and saffron to be powdered, the mercury to be rubbed with the storax and turpen- tine in an iron mortar until completely extinguished. The plaster then to be melted with the wax and resin, and the powders and volatile oil added to the mixture. When the plaster has