INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. 607 after the lapse of time, although there is good reason for believing that the skin is more liable in some persons to inflammatory disturbances, for some years it may be, after an attack of rhus poisoning. Acne and acute eczema are the secondary affections most commonly observed as its sequelae. Suscepti- bility to the action of the poison seems never to diminish in the same individual, however often affected by it. The question is often asked by patients : Is ivy-poisoning contagious ? will contact with the eruption, or the fluid discharge, produce the disease upon other parts of the same person, or upon the skin of another individual ? It is not at all improbable, that a person who had been handling specimens of rhus, might, by immediately taking the hand of another, excessively sensitive to its action, and before the volatile principle had been dissipated, washed away, or absorbed, convey the poison, which would subsequently prove effective. It is, no doubt, in this way that the face, penis, and other parts of the body become affected, where the hands only have come in direct contact with the plants ; but the freest handling of parts affected, in all stages of the efflores- cence, fails to transfer the disease to the hands of another. Ti'eatment.—The poison, as has been stated, is a volatile acid. An alkali would, therefore, suggest itself as the most fit agent to counteract its action. Thorough washing of the parts, as soon as possible after contact with the poison, in cooking soda or saleratus water, or in strong soapsuds (especially if made with soft soap, which contains an excess of alkali), is therefore the best immediate treatment. When these or other alkaline preparations are not to be obtained, an abundance of water alone should be used as soon as possible. After absorption has taken place, or when the eruption has begun to show itself, less benefit is to be expected from such applications alone. Reme- dies are then to be used which will best control and shorten the inflammatory process in the tissues of the skin: those, in fact, which are found to be most efficacious in corresponding stages of acute eczema. Aunong these are some which have a special reputation, as solutions of acetate of lead or sulphate of copper, applied frequently as a wash. A large number of vegetable substances have been recommended as exerting a specific action upon the eourse of the disease, when locally applied. Among them are wliite-oak bark, black alder, frindelia robusta, and serpentaria. Bromine has lately been added to this list. erhaps nothing is better than black wash (calomel 5j, lime-water Oj), used as an evaporating lotion for half an hour at a time, twice daily—the lime- water acting also as a chemical antidote, if, possibly, such action be still in season at this later stage. In the intervals between the applications of these washes, the parts may be kept covered with cold wTater dressings, with plasters of diachylon ointment, or with a powder of starch sj, oxide of zinc 3j, according to the familiar rules for the treatment of acute eczema. By such means the inflammatory process is checked or shortened, and the sufferings of the patient are greatly alleviated. Arnica Poisoning.—The tincture of arnica is another frequent source of “ poisoning,” when applied to the external surface as a popular remedy in sprains and bruises. It causes, upon some persons, an intense dermatitis of an eczematous type, but necessarily upon a small proportion only of those who use it, inasmuch as it is employed in enormous quantity for the purpose named. The cutaneous manifestations consist in the development of hyper- pemia, papules, vesicles, excoriations, crusts, and scales, in regular sequence, accompanied by intense itching and some degree of burning in the parts affected, but by no constitutional disturbance. The inflammation begins in the parts to which the arnica has been applied, after intervals varying from a few hours to several days, but may spread from such centres to