466 SYPHILIS. the nipple, and especially when it is confined to the base of the nipple, it is sometimes difficult of diagnosis. Irregular in form, often very small, even like a slight fissure at times, and masked by a crust, it is very apt to be mis- taken for some simple lesion, such as a chapped breast, a furuncle, or a simple erosion, a circumscribed eczema, or a bite or some other injury contracted in nursing. It should be remembered that mammary chancre is at times one of the slightest and apparently most inoffensive of lesions. Two symptoms, however, may usually be relied upon to decide the diagnosis, or at least to aid it materially. The first of these is the induration of the lesion, characteristic of chancre, and wanting in the other lesions liable to be mistaken for it. The second is the enlargement of the axillary glands, which is never wanting, and which presents the peculiarities of syphilitic adenopathy—the cold, hard, indolent condition. The indolent and comparatively painless character of the lesion is also of importance from a diagnostic point of view. When the patient suffering from supposed mammary chancre is a nursing woman, she should of course be confronted with the nursling, and a careful examination should he made of the latter, with the view of ascertaining the presence or absence of signs of syphilis. Digital Chancres.—A few w'ords may be said with reference to chancre of the finger, which, though rare, yet does occur from time to time, and may go unrecognized to the injury of the patient, and to the danger of those with whom he may be brought into contact. The type of chancre of the finger commonly met with is the “ulcus elevatum.” Its evolution seems to be somewhat slower than that of chancre of the genitalia, the induration in par- ticular lasting a long time. The commonest seat of chancre of the finger is at the side or base of the nail, or at its free margin. It begins as a papule, pustule, slight excoriation, or fissure. On examination, a deep-red, hard, elevated mass of moderate size is perceived, which when ulcerated yields a scanty, serous secretion. The borders of the nail may be thickened or super- ficially ulcerated, but the sore is confined to the soft parts—a point of distinc- tion between chancre and syphilitic onychia. The entire distal phalanx is sometimes indurated, giving the finger a bulbous shape. The epitrochlear and axillary ganglia are usually enlarged, and moderate lymphangeitis is sometimes present. Physicians and midwives are more apt than others to he affected with this form of chancre, and, especially in the case of midwives, the affection may be conveyed to others and very widely spread.1 Relative Frequency of Chancre and Chancroid. The relative frequency of chancre and chancroid is a matter demanding some notice. According to Belliomme and Martin,2 the French statistics on this subject are so diverse that it is impossible to draw an average, one observer reporting four chancroids to one chancre, while another meets with them in nearly equal numbers, and while others, especially of late years, find the proportion nearly reversed. (See Tables, pages 439, 440.) One thing is certain, namely, that among the upper classes chancre followed by syphilis is the commoner affection, while in the lower classes chancroid is more frequently met with. In all probability chancroid is destined to greater rarity as time goes on, and it is not rash to hope for its almost entire extinction in the not very remote future.3 1 See Bardinet, Syphilis communiquee par le doigt d’une sage femme. Bulletin de l’Aca- demie de Medecine, Avril, 1874. 2 Op. cit., p. 12. 3 See Bumstead and Taylor, op. cit., p. 346.