PERIOD OF THE GENERALIZED LESIONS OF SYPHILIS. 475 Locally, the most scrupulous cleanliness must be observed, especially if the chancre is so situated as to be soiled by the excretions, as in the anus or vulva. Frequent warm baths are beneficial, especially if there is any ten- dency to irritation. The affected part should be protected from contact or rubbing with the neighboring parts, or with the clothing. In reality this is, in the majority of cases, all that is required. When the patient demands more active treatment, dilute solution of chlorinated soda, black wash, or some mild astringent powder, such as that of the oxide of zinc, may be pre- scribed. The fact is that in the majority of cases the chancre tends to a spontaneous cure, and only requires to be let alone in order to get well of itself. When the chancre is slightly painful, rest is to be prescribed, with frequent warm baths and sedative lotions, such as lead-water and laudanum; or the following ointment may he used, remembering that an ointment can- not conveniently be applied to a mucous surface, or in the balano-preputial fold If.—Ung. hydrarg. 5v- Ung. aquas rosas, 5>j- Tinct. opii, npvj. M. It would seem scarcely necessary to advise against the employment of stimulating or irritating remedies, did not experience show that these are daily employed by practitioners in the treatment of chancre. Touching with the nitrate-of-silver stick, or cauterizations with sulphate of copper, etc., are of no use, and are frequently harmful. Cauterization is oidy justifiable under two conditionsi either to stimulate the surface of the chancre when this is sluggish, or tends to remain covered with a pseudo-membranous coating—when the nitrate-of-silver stick may be applied lightly at intervals of several days; or to repress exuberant granulations appearing during the process of repair. Sometimes, after the chancre has healed, there remains behind an indurated lump, which is slow to disappear. The expectant treatment alone is proper in such a condition. Patients are frequently anxious for something to be done to hasten the removal of what is sometimes a deformity, and will urge the employment of stimulant applications, caustics, or even the knife. Inter- ference, however, is not proper, as the result will probably prove very un- satisfactory. Fournier relates the case of a young man who had a chancre on the fraenum of the prepuce, followed by a walnut-sized induration, not- withstanding the assurance of Ricord and Fournier that it would disappear spontaneously in time, the patient induced some ignorant or unscrupulous practitioner to excise the lump. Violent hemorrhage followed, only checked by the actual cautery. Afterwards, a larger lump than the preceding one gradually took its place, and the patient only recovered after some months with the loss of a good part of his glans penis, all on account of a lesion which, let alone, would have disappeared without leaving a trace ! Period of the Generalized Lesions of Syphilis. The various stages in the evolution of syphilis were formerly, and are still frequently, classified under three heads, primary, secondary, and tertiary. But, while the first two of these are distinctly separate, and divided the one from the other, it is not thus with the so-called secondary and tertiary periods, which possess no distinct line of demarcation in practice. I prefer therefore to consider all the lesions of syphilis following the chancre and its concomitants, under the comprehensive category of generalized, lesions. For