LESIONS OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 507 antiphlogistics. When the ulceration is once established it is exceedingly difficult to obtain a cure. Jullien says it is “one of the most embar- rassing problems of therapeutics,” and my own experience entirely con- firms this opinion. Among the remedies most likely to give a satisfactory result may be mentioned the twenty per cent, solution of nitrate of silver (argenti nitrat. gr. c, aquae f'sj). Small pledgets of lint soaked in this solution are inserted into the ulcerated cavities (Diday). Fournier recom- mends powdered iodoform, and Vanzetti of Padua powdered nitrate of lead. Camphor and alum is another topical application which has been suggested. Bumstead and Taylor advise the use of strong solutions of caustic potassa (3j-iv to f,5.j) to repress the profuse granulations of the matrix. They also suggest prolonged immersion of the member in very warm water con- taining powdered borax (5ij—Oj), to diminish the swelling and remove the secretions. Gradual pressure, carefully applied, may sometimes be advan- tageously used, and soothing ointments, such as that of belladonna, or Goulard’s cerate, may be required in inflammatory cases. The most assiduous clean- liness is required, and the various applications named, as well as others which may suggest themselves, should be essayed in turn when the case is rebellious.1 Alopecia.—Falling of the hair may occur, without any special lesion of the integument, as a result of perverted nutrition caused by the syphilitic poison. The hair becomes dull, tarnished, and dry-looking, and the patient, as Diday says, looks as if he wore a wig. The least eflort brings out the hair “ by the handful.” A very common seat of alopecia of this variety is the eyebrow, a segment of which is often denuded completely of hair. This alopecia of the eyebrow is regarded by Fournier as pathognomonic of syphi- lis, even when met with alone. Sometimes general alooecia occurs, involving not only the scalp, but the eyebrows, eyelashes, beard, pubes, etc. But even when the scalp has become almost bald under the influence of the syphilitic disease,2 complete restitution of its normal covering may be hoped for if the general condition improves under the influence of specific treatment, and the same is the case with this form of alopecia occurring elsewhere. In spite of the current notion, more prevalent, however, in Europe, where the popular know- ledge of syphilis is more general if not more accurate, than in America, that premature baldness is due to syphilis, this is not at all the case. Syphilitic alopecia, of the form just described, is the most curable variety of the affection. Another form of syphilitic alopecia is that caused by syphilitic eruptions of the scalp. Acneiform or pustular lesions of this region are not uncommon, even in the earlier periods of the disease, so that one of the commonest ques- cooled, but while still liquid, the mercurial mixture to be thoroughly incorporated. This is now superseded for general use by the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro of the U. S. Pharmacopoeia. The mixture of diachylon with mercurial ointment is, in Bumstead and Taylor’s opinion, smoother and more efficient than either the ordinary mercurial plaster or the Emplastrum de Vigo. 1 See Victor de Meric, Syphilitic Affections of the Nails (Brit. Med. Journ., 1865, p. 45); Betz, Treatment of Syphilitic Perionyxis by Occlusion (Giorn. Ital. delle Mai. Ven., 1868, t. ii. p. 180) ; Delattre, Treatment of Onyxis (Giorn. Ital. delle Mai. Ven., 1868, t. ii. p. 370) ; Em. Kohn, Zur Pathologie und Therapie der sypliilitischer Nagelerkrankungen (Wien, med. Presse, 1870, xi., 24, 27, 28) ; Diday, Traitement du Perionyxis Ulcereux (Annales de Dermatologie et de Syph., 1871, t. iii. p. 182) ; Fournier, De l’Alopecie, de l’Onyxis et du Perionyxis comme accidents de la Periode SfScondaire de la Syphilis (Annales de Dermatologie et de Syph., 1871, t. iii. p. 12) ; Bergh, Syphilitic Affections of the Nails (Hosp. Tidend., 1880, vii., Nos. 46, 47. Abstract in Archives of Dermatology, vol. vii., 1881, p. 336) ; Hutchin- son, Diseases of the Nails (Med. Times and Gaz., April 20, 1878). 1 Fournier tells of a patient who, at one period of his alopecia, could boast of but seventeen hairs upon his entire head.