GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 802 covery has occurred. But the succeeding winter reproduces the old condi- tion. Here the immediate cause is obviously the lower temperature in which the feet are kept except in the recumbent position, and when well covered. Whether indoors or outside, in the latitude of snow, the feet are in colder temperature than the remainder of the person. In rooms artificially warmed, the feet will be in an atmosphere from five to fifteen degrees (Fahr.) colder than that which surrounds the head. Besides, this depending position, ever subjecting the capillaries of the feet to the extra strain of gravity, assists in diminishing their nutrient capacity through their dilatation. The cell loses its ability to live, and, the fluid being extruded from the capillaries, a vesicle is formed. When this breaks, it will often be found that there is an excavation, the tissue having been destroyed so slowly that the cells have become fluid. More often the destruction is too rapid for this. It progresses for a definite distance, perhaps to the junction of the toe with the foot, and then pausing, as if to stop at this point, encourages hopes of recovery. The toe becomes separated, and its tissue is broken down. But after a while a dark spot may appear on the skin above the point of separation. This spreads towards the original spot, and a new movement takes place, involving more tissue. Such pauses, however, are not the rule, which is rather one of slow but steady progress. Nevertheless, at times the disease is permanently stayed. The nutritive power of the circulation, which had become destroyed from the various causes above detailed, may become restored by their removal or pal- liation, and by care it may sometimes be maintained. The prognosis, how- ever, is very unfavorable. It is not easy to recognize the bony deposits in the arteries of the inferior extremities. The tibials are only to be felt near the ankle, and may be free from disease at that point. Sometimes the de- struction may be low enough to allow the red line to form, and amputation may produce a permanent cure; but more often the stump becomes gan- grenous, and the disease goes on. Treatment.—The treatment of senile gangrene obviously looks to the abatement of the cause, and inasmuch as this falls under the head of arrest of circulation, though imperfect, and as this primary cause cannot be removed, we must address our attention to those determining and relievable causes which the ordinary habits of life produce. Thus it is necessary that the patient should take the recumbent position, absolutely, for by this method the dis- tension of the capillaries due to gravity, in the erect or even semi-erect pos- ture, is removed. The recommendation to elevate the limb is to be con- demned, as favoring a diminished circulation. Even the weight of the bed-clothes should be avoided. An absolutely even temperature of the surrounding atmosphere should be favored. No extra heat that would carry the warmth of the part above this should be permitted, though, in order to maintain it at the proper point, a little artificial heat may be demanded. The custom of swathing the foot in a mass of carded wool attains this object as perfectly as possible. A roll of cotton batting is usually more accessible, and perhaps as useful. In attempting to elevate the temperature artificially, care should be taken to prevent its rising above 100° Fahr., as too much heat distends the capillaries and makes the circulation languid. Local applications are not of much value. Opiate washes to allay pain, are admissible, and should have the proper temperature on application. It is wise to inspect the foot as little as possible, so as not to vary the tempera- ture. The charcoal poultice, so long in use for gangrenous conditions, is rarely employed in this special form of mortification. Its inconvenience overbalances the benefit derived. Cotton saturated in a solution of carbolic