97 SNAKE-BITES. latecl in another animal of the same size and species, eauses the death of the latter within a few hours, under the same symptoms and with the same changes of the blood; (4) the poison can be dried and preserved for a long time without losing its specific quality; (5) alcohol is the best antidote as yet discovered for this poison.” This writer further claims to have ascer- tained that the venom of the Hachesis rhambeata possesses the power of di- gesting albuminous substances, and emulsifying fats, and infers that the local effects of its inoculation may perhaps be regarded as in effect a digestion of the living tissues. He thinks that it may serve, not only as a means of attack or defence, but may aid in the digestion of the victim. M. Couty, comment- ing on these statements, points out that “ the venom of snakes is not a simple poison, but a pathogenic agent, capable of selecting certain organs and tissues.” On its intravenous injection, there always ensue hemorrhages in the lungs, in the endocardium of the left side of the heart and not in that of the right, in the meninges and not in the nerve tissues, less commonly in the stomach, intestines, and kidneys. Different animals show very different degrees of susceptibility; thus, the monkey is said to be about a thousand times as sus- ceptible as the frog. “ Many of these poisons, after keeping, contain various bacteria, which can be cultivated, and the culture-liquid, or the fluids from an inflammation due to the poison, cause symptoms different from those of the poison itself, and comparable to simple septicaemia. The venom is thus not an organized virus.” While the foregoing statements may be taken as true, or at least as em- bodying the general results of observation on snake-poisoning, it is by no means impossible that further study may show that dilferences exist between the venom of one species and that of another, or, it may even be, between different samples of venom. Fayrer thinks that the poison of the Naja does not destroy the coagulability of the blood, while that of the Daboia makes it perfectly and permanently fluid. Halford1 described certain cells developed in the blood of animals, killed by snake-poison, which he thought might prove to he a means of diagnosis in doubtful cases ; but Mitchell2 asserts that these are not new organisms, but only leucocytes, confirming his view by microscopical observations made by Dr. J. Gf. Richardson. Hodgkinson3 says that the bites of the Australian snakes have less local effect, and exert their influence more upon the general nervous system, than those of the snakes of other countries. Treatment of Snake-Bites.—With regard to the treatment of snake-poison- ing, the remedies that have been proposed, and even those that have been declared to be infallible, can scarcely be counted, and it would be simply a waste of time to enumerate them. A few, however, which have been brought forward upon plausible grounds by scientific men, may be mentioned. Bi- bron’s antidote enjoyed a wide reputation for some years; it consists of iodide of potassium, gr. iv ; bromine, f^v ; corrosive chloride of mercury, gr. ij :— 10 drops at a dose. Ammonia has been advocated by various authors for the last seventy years,4 notably of late by Halford. Shortt is said5 to regard po- tassa as a reliable antidote, neutralizing the venom. Iodine has been depended upon by others. Dr. Anderson, of Wilmington, North Carolina,6 has recorded two cases of rattlesnake-bite successfully treated by means of bromide of po- 1 British Medical Journal, Dec. 21, 1867. ! American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1870. * Ibid., April, 1845. * First by Mangili, in 1813. 5 Letter from Madras, in Medical Times and Gazette, Aug. 23, 1873. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1872. VOL. II.—7