540 SYPHILIS. productive inflammatory action, the lacunae and cavities left by the breaking down of the syphilitic deposit are tilled up with new material, the normal density of the hone being by this means again restored or even surpassed. In the latter case eburnation begins, the Haversian canals are closed, and hyperostosis may take place, reaching occasionally such a degree that, in the skull, the hones may be nearly an inch thick. When this process goes a step further, nutrition is interfered with, and the affected portion of bone dies and is thrown off as an eburnated sequestrum. Fig. 331. Periostosis (node) of bones of forearm due to hereditary syphilis. When superficial, the new formation arises from the periosteum, or at least from its medullary layer, and is therefore sometimes called periostosis. (Fig. 331). The tibia is the commonest seat of this diffuse form of syphilitic bone disease. One form of periostosis, that in which the new bony deposit adheres rather loosely to the body of the bone, is called epiphyseal exostosis. Cellular at first, this deposit becomes in time compacted by the deposit of new lamel- lae about the original trabeculae, so as to lead even to eburnation. On the other hand, the exostosis is called parenchymatous when the tumor, though visible externally, is the consequence of an osseous deposit in the thick- ness of the bone itself. Circumscribed Gummatous Infiltration.—On the surface of the bone, the gumma presents the appearance of a sharply circumscribed lesion. It has been chiefly studied in the form in which it appears upon the cranium. The substance of the lesion, gelatinous in appearance, accumulates between the bone and the dura mater on one side, or between the bone and the peri- osteum on the other, and penetrates the osseous substance like a wedge, caus- ing its progressive absorption. When two gummata happen to occur oppo- site one another, and to meet in the diploic structure, perforation is the result. (See Fig. 332.) Under treatment, circumscribed gummata of the bones gradually undergo lardaceous or caseous metamorphosis, and are ab- sorbed, leaving, however, a depressed stellar cicatrix, rendered more con- spicuous by the plastic deposits about the periphery caused by the irritation. Virchow considers this the result of a process to which he has given the name dry caries, but in the opinion of some other syphilographers the gummatous process is sufficient to account for the appearances presented. The evolution of the gumma, as this takes place in the interior of the bones, particularly of the long bones, is not very well understood. K-icord’s plates, however, show that the lesion may occupy the medullary cavity, where it presents the appearance of a lardaceous mass around which the compact tissue is redder and more porous. Occurring in the substance of the spongy