SYPHILIS. 582 lowed, asks if he may marry, an element of great uncertainty is introduced into the question by the course of treatment which the patient has under- gone. For, as is known, mercury given between the appearance of the initial lesion and the advent of general symptoms, has the power to adjourn the ap- pearance of the latter without preventing their ultimate manifestation.1 In these cases the physician should go very carefully into the history of the patient, and should endeavor to extricate from his answers some data upon which to base a diagnosis. Failing this, a postponement for at least three months must be enjoined, the patient remaining under observation meantime, and, of course, no treatment being employed. The following scheme gives a guide to the questions which should be asked in eliciting the history of former syphilitic disease:— Scheme for the Examination of Persons supposed to have contracted Syphilis.2 (1) The individual lias had venereal sores (chancres). (2) Ascertain precisely the date at which these sores were contracted. Were there one or more? In the latter case, did they come out simultaneously or consecutively? (3) Supposing but a single sore to have existed, what was its seat, its form, its dimen- sions ? How long a time elapsed between the date of supposed exposure and that of the appearance of the sore ? Was it soft or indurated ? (4) Examine the point indicated as having been the seat of the sore in question. Do not forget that the specific induration may last a long time after the sore has healed ; that in some cases it may be noticeable even after some years. Remember also that the cicatrix of chancre, when it occurs upon the skin, as on the outside of the prepuce, may present a characteristic bronze tint, which disappears very slowly.3 (5) What took place in the neighboring lymphatic ganglia ? Were the glands swollen at any time? If so, were there a number in the groin (supposing, of course, that the suspicious sore was on the genitalia), on one or on both sides, a hard and indolent group of nodules ; or did the glandular involvement take the form of a red, painful, inflam- matory tumor, having a single ganglion as its centre ? (6) In the latter case, did the ganglionic tumor suppurate, or did it terminate by resolution ? If it suppurated, did the opening by which it discharged heal up promptly, or did it grow larger and itself become a virulent sore? (7) Examine the inguinal regions, where possibly the vestiges of a specific adeno- pathy may still be found, persisting, as it sometimes does, for months and years after the initial lesion has disappeared. (8) If the patient has had a suppurating bubo, the cicatrix should be recognizable, and should show by its extent whether the suppurative opening had closed quickly or whether there had been a virulent open sore. In the latter case it is almost certain that general infection has not taken place. (9) Inquire how long the sore or sores persisted, what treatment was followed, and what physician attended the patient. The treatment of a competent physician will, of course, throw light upon the nature of the disease. (Unfortunately, too few physicians are competent to interpret any but the plainest symptoms of syphilis with certainty, while too many give anti-syphilitic treatment in all doubtful cases, of whatever nature. Too much reliance must not, therefore, be placed upon the answer to this question.) (10) What followed the sores in question? Does the patient remember to have experienced weakness, fatigue, or pains in the head or limbs, worst at night, during the three months previous ? (11) Has the patient observed the appearance of a rash, coming out in small, reddish 1 This is not admitted by all sypliilograpliers, but statistics show, I think, conclusively, that the view here taken is correct. 2 This scheme is founded on the one given by Langlebert, in his work already quoted. 3 See Leon Montaz, Recherches sur la Trace Indelebile du Chancre Syphilitique, ses Caracteres. Paris, 1880.