ALCOHOLIC DRESSINGS. 49 dry dressings should be discarded. In brief, in all wounds, small or large, when repair by “ quick union” may reasonably be looked for, dry dressings are applicable, due provision having been made for efficient drainage. In all lacerated, contused, or deep wounds, in which repair by granulation is to be expected, these dressings are not to be recommended. Earth Dressings.—Earth, as a dressing for wounds, has doubtless been used by savage nations from an early period of the world’s history, but it was first brought before the notice of surgeons by Dr. Addinell Hewson, of Philadel- phia, in 1872; and from his work upon the subject, it seems that be first re- sorted to this mode of treatment in 1869. Dr. Ilewson was first led to employ the earth as a deodorizer, in a bad example of compound fracture of the leg; and, as the results in this case were good in all respects, he began to employ it as a primary dressing to wounds. The earth used by Dr. Ilewson was dried, yellow, ferruginous clay, which had been well sifted through a fine flour sieve, and he claims for its use many advantages. He maintains that it is cool and pleasant to the patient as a local application, and that it has a marked influence in soothing pain. In burn cases and in those of carbuncle, this relief is very striking. Dr. Ilewson has satisfied himself that earth, besides being a deodorizer, has a marked influence in preventing putrefaction; that in no case does it provoke or aggravate inflammatory action in a wound, but that in many, it retards or arrests it; and, above all, that it promotes the healing process in wounds of every description, as well as in ulcers. The way in which the clay acts as a dressing may not be clear, but it seems reasonable, from the evidence adduced by Dr. Ilewson and others, to conclude that it has by its powers of absorbing gases, and more particularly oxygen and ammonia, a chemical action upon the part to which it is applied, and that by virtue of this action it is an efficient means of delaying decay and putrefaction, and of preventing fermentation in animal tissue. Besides this, it excludes air from the wounded tissues, absorbs moisture and excess of discharges, and helps in a measure to give support to wounded parts. The dressing is applied directly to the wounded or ulcerated surface, by dusting over it the pulverized clay; or, in the case of a stump, by placing it upon a bed of dry clay, in a box extemporized of binder’s board, and by completely covering in the whole surface with some more clay. In some cases, when the clay becomes saturated with the discharges, the dressing has to be renewed daily; in others, it may be left for two or more days. Upon the whole, this mode of practice has not extended far beyond the sphere occupied by its originator, and it does not seem to possess any advan- tages over the more cleanly and simple processes which are now at the dis- posal of surgeons. Some years ago, when Dr. Hewson was in London, I was tempted to give the method a trial; but I soon gave it up, as experience was not in its favor. The dirtiness of the dressing was not compensated for by any advantage. This, however, may have been because I was unable to obtain the right kind of ferruginous clay. Alcoholic Dressing of Wounds.—Hippocrates, Paracelsus, and others em- ployed wine as a dressing to wounds, and they did so under the idea that it dried the part, and in the belief that a dry condition was nearer a state of health, whilst humidity was nearer that of disease. Their followers used wine in which astringents were dissolved, such as gall-nuts, oak-bark, etc. All did so, moreover, with the view of arresting bleeding. In more recent times, the alcohol dressing has been made popular by Uelaton, who used it largely, and found it of value. It may be applied in the form of simple alco- hol, or, which seems preferable, in that of the camphorated spirit of ' VOL. II.—4