635 HYPERTROPHIED SCAR FIBROMA. air or clothing by the application of soothing plasters, and, in severe parox- ysms, subcutaneous injections of morphia may be employed. Generally, however, the patient must be content to bear his affliction without hope of surgical relief. Hypertrophied Scar. The hypertrophied scar may be developed as the immediate sequence of a preceding destructive process, in consequence of protracted cicatrization by which the granulations have time to become organized into firm fibrous tissue, and to thus form well-marked tumors of various shapes—nodular, stellate, reticular, band or ridge-like, etc.; or flat and normal scars may, at some con- siderable period subsequent to their formation, take on a like hypertrophy, and be transformed into similar disfiguring tumors. Such results, although more likely to follow the destructive action of certain agents upon the cuta- neous tissues, may ensue upon any injury to the skin, even the simplest in- cision, for reasons wholly unaccountable. Such overgrown cicatrices may present a smooth and even surface, but slightly elevated ; or ridge-like tumors of great extent and prominence, with pockets and bridles, and of frightful appearance. Their structure differs from keloid growth in several respects, the bundles of fibrous tissue, of which they are composed, running in all directions, so as to form a complex network of slender and broad bands. The papillary layer above is wholly wanting. The bloodvessels are very abundant in the early stages of the growth, but are in old scars no longer pervious. Treatment.—Unfortunately, very little can be done to relieve the disfigure- ment produced by hypertrophied scars, urgently as patients may request the aid of the surgeon. In exceptional cases, excision followed by a plastic ope- ration, may effect a cure; but excision is almost always followed by the formation of a still larger scar, in consequence of the greater loss of substance, and no certainty can be given the patient that a similar hypertrophy of the new scar may not result. Should there be any keloid element in the origi- nal cicatrix, such a result would be inevitable. Fibroma. (Synonyms: Molluscumfibrosum ; Molluscum simplex ; Molluscum non-con- tagiosum.) This form of Molluscum differs from Molluscum contagiosum in possessing no outlet, nor contents which can be squeezed through such an opening, for it consists of a new growth of connective tissue. It may occur singly, but is often observed in great numbers. In size it varies from that of a pin’s head to that of filbert, an egg, or a fist; or may form even larger tumors. In shape it may be flattened, semi-globular, prominent, and attached by a broad base, or may become in time pedunculated. The integument covering it is generally unchanged in appearance, but may be somewhat liypenemic, and, in rare instances, lias been known to ulcerate when the tumor was large and pressed upon on account of its position. The follicles upon the surface are sometimes enlarged and plugged by hardened sebaceous matter. The growth feels somewhat soft and elastic on pressure, or of variable hardness in differ- ent parts, when large. The seat of these tumors is by preference the trunk and upper parts, but they may occur upon any part of the surface, including the scalp, and may cover nearly the whole integument. They develop, too,