GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. 308 rapidity of their formation, and by their occurring on parts of the body not subjected to constant pressure. They commence by redness over a circular area, but with feeble circulation, and, the skin dying, a hard black patch is formed. In a few days this sloughs out, and the cavity is slowly filled with granulations. The treatment consists in the adoption of a stimulating plan; both general and local. Noma. This disease is peculiar to young children, usually attacking the mouth, and appearing in the first place upon the pro-labium or upon the mucous mem- brane of the cheek. In this form it is commonly known as Cancrum Oris. Its first symptom is the appearance of a vesicle, •which seems to result from a peculiar poison developed in this highly vascular part of the body. But it is also to he found arising upon the pudenda of female children. It. is apt to follow measles, scarlet fever, and other cachectic conditions, but often arises spontaneously without these special antecedents. An account of the disease, as affecting the 'pudenda, by Mr. Kinder Wood,1 describes it as commencing with a chill, followed by high fever, pain in the head, dulness, unusual loss of appetite, and thirst, the tongue being coated, the bowels torpid, and the patient languid and restless. These symp- toms precede the local manifestations about three days. The inflammation of the labia produces great enlargement, accompanied with a dark tint, ex- tending to the clitoris, nymphfe, and hymen. It probably also extends to the lining membrane of the urethra, for the pain in voiding urine is excruciating. The progress of the inflammation is so rapid, that small ulcers are formed in twenty-four hours, and soon run together. The disease now extends along the perineum to the anus, and to the inner part of the top of the thigh, and also even over the mons veneris, with deep sloughing and ulceration. The constitutional symptoms are those of prostration; the pulse is quick and irri- table, and the face of a peculiar pale hue, the skiu exhibiting a singular whiteness, which seems to be always present after the ulcerations have formed. The pain upon moving the pelvis is excruciating; hence the pa- tient takes the recumbent position, with the legs bent and the knees sepa- rated. The motion of the bowels and the passing of urine are resisted to the last moment, in consequence of the severity of the pain. The period of time occupied in the progress of the disease is not uniform. When it proves fatal, the external organs of generation are progressive^ destroyed, and the pulse becomes more feeble. The emaciation is rapid, so that the skin of the thighs is loose and flabby, as in marasmus. If the patient recovers, it is but slowly, for the constitution is much debilitated; a copious, yellowish, mucous discharge is kept up for a period of many weeks. Post-mortem examination gives no evidence of any inflammation within the abdominal cavity, the pa- tient dying obviously from septicaemia. But the usual seat of noma is in the mouth. The author has seen a few cases, but will present one detailed by Sir James Paget, as a good illustration of the fatal progress of the disease:— Edward F., an emaciated child, aged five and a half, was admitted to the hospital on January 25, 1862. About Christmas he was said to have been laid up by typhoid fever, but with no eruption, sore throat, or diarrhoea. He was very deaf, much prostrated, and never fairly recovered his health. Three weeks ago he lost his appetite, and ap- peared to be generally unwell, but found no difficulty in eating or swallowing. Seven days ago, his mother noticed some blood about the teeth and lips, and observing the 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vii. p. 84. London, 1816.