GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE FACE. 181 Treatment.—The treatment of these injuries is in general very simple, flesh wounds, unattended with much destruction, requiring only the removal of any foreign bodies which are present, and the adoption of the ordinary local measures employed in the management of gunshot wounds. The lacerated and contused soft parts are not to be removed, but readjusted as accurately as possible, and held in place, either by strips of gauze fixed by collodion, or better by sutures or pins; the abundant blood supply of the face secures the preservation of vitality, and oftentimes very speedy repair. In cases of fracture, no fragments that are in any degree attached are to be taken away, but are to be restored to position, and are to 1)6 held by appropriate dress- ings, or by frequently applied pressure of the finger, or, if about the mouth, by that of the tongue, the moulding influence of this organ often producing effects which are quite surprising. When the bones of the nose are shattered, every care should be taken to prevent or at least to lessen the sinking in of the bridge, which causes so unpleasant and suspicious a deformity. Fractures of the inferior maxilla are to be treated like similar injuries consequent upon blows, falls, etc. AVhen there has been great destruction of the anterior part of the bone, with its overlying soft parts, every effort should be made to bring forward the edges of the tegumentary wound, and to prevent adhesion of the tongue. Unfortunately, in a large proportion of these cases, great deformity will result, but it may often be very much lessened by subsequent plastic operations. As far as possible, the secretions of the wound are to be drained away from the throat, since their being swallowed not only adds greatly to the discomfort arising from the injury, but, if they are abundant, destroys the appetite, impairs digestion, and may contribute much to the production of a fatal result. Secondary hemorrhage is to be arrested by ligation of the bleeding vessel, urhen it can be found, or by the use of ice, hot water, the hot iron, or com- pression. When these measures prove insufficient, the lingual, facial, or external carotid artery, according to circumstances, should be tied. Ligation of the common carotid, though frequently resorted to, should not be adopted if it is possible to avoid it, being both dangerous and unreliable. Of 111 cases in military practice, 81 (73 per cent.), and of 16 in civil practice, 4 (25 per cent.), or, taken altogether, 85 out of 127 (67 per cent.) cases have terminated fatally, while death has also followed in three out of seven cases of ligation of the external carotid alone, or 42.85 per cent. (Wyeth). Of the 54 cases of liga- tion of the common trunk which occurred during our late war, in at least 14 (26 per cent.) there was subsequent hemorrhage; and of the remaining 40 cases, 14 ended fatally in the first week, and 11 of these within the first four days ; so that it is fair to infer that had the patients lived a little longer, there would have been a decided increase in the number of secondary bleedings. Wounds of the eye and its appendages are to be treated like those produced by other causes ; if lodgment of the foreign body has taken place, and vision has been destroyed, the eyeball should be removed at once, to prevent the development of sympathetic ophthalmia. If a considerable part of the ear has been carried away, little or nothing can be done to correct the resulting deformity; but this is a matter of comparatively small importance, since the hearing is not affected, and the disfigurement can generally be readily con- cealed. If the bullet has lodged in the external auditory canal, it should be removed, even if it be found necessary to displace forwards the auricle and cartilaginous meatus in order to do so.1 Powder gi'ains are to be carefully 1 Green, of Boston, has recently reported a case in which by making “ a semicircular incision above and behind the auricle, through the periosteum,” carrying forward “the periosteum witli the auricle till the edge of the osseous meatus was reached,” and cutting through “ the insertion of the cartilaginous into the osseous passage in its upper and posterior part,” he was able to dis- cover and remove three pieces of two small pistol balls which had been fired directly into the ear.