THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 232 so severe, and so unquestionably going to prove fatal, that I directed that she should not be disturbed in order that, the usual dressings might be applied, but that she should be simply covered with blankets and given morphia and stimulants. Her urine was drawn by the catheter, and proved, on examination, to be normal. The temperature at this time was 1)7° F. The following morning the urine was again drawn, and, upon exam- ination, showed a considerable quantity of albumen. Death occurred soon afterwards. The accompanying temperature charts have been selected from those of the eleven cases which showed albumen. It is interesting to note in several, that, when the temperature rose to 101° F. or 102° F., albumen appeared in the urine, and that as the albumen increased in amount the specific gravity be- came less, while as the albumen diminished the specific gravity increased, becoming finally normal as the last trace disappeared. In the chart repre- sented by Figs. 302 and 303, this is well shown, as also that the patient had several exacerbations of fever while under treatment, during which periods alone was albumen present—the specific gravity keeping pace with its pres- ence or absence. In the charts copied in Figs. 304 and 305, it will be seen that, as the cases approached a fatal termination, renal epithelium, casts, and blood corpuscles appeared in the urine. Hone of these cases presented, upon admission, any evidences of renal disease. Fig. 306 represents the chart ob- tained from an interesting case, already referred to, of general burns from the first to the third degree; the patient was pregnant, and was delivered of a still-born child four days after admission. The urine, although albuminous on admission, was not more so than is often found during pregnancy, but within forty-eight hours it was loaded with albumen, and at the same time the temperature rose to 105° F., and the specific gravity of the urine, which on admission had been 1014, fell with the rise in temperature to 1006 and 1008. Figs. 307 and 308 also show the rapid rise in temperature and the association of albuminuria, the urine having lost, during the course of treat- ment, all trace of the albumen it had previously contained. As the temper- Fig. 306.—Temperature chart of A. L., aged 30. Extensive general burns, varying from burn of first degree to one deeply involving muscles. Patient was eight and a half months advanced in third pregnancy. On the evening of May 13, she was delivered of a still-born female child, the foetal heart-sounds of which had been plainly audible until within four hours of birth. The child was marked all over its surface with burns and blisters, the locality of which strangely corresponded with similar burns and blisters upon the parent. Death.