TREATMENT OF BURNS AND SCALDS. 241 which varies according to the intensity of the applied heat, the nature of the medium, the extent of surface involved, as well as the age, temperament, and constitution of the patient. Burns of the first and second degrees gene- rally result favorably, the patients recovering rapidly ; in those of the highest degree, however, when the surface involved is very extensive, the prognosis is more grave, and, indeed, from the great extent of surface involved, even burns of the first degree may prove fatal. It is generally accepted that, if one-half or even one-third of the surface has been burned or scalded, death, from some physiological cause as yet not thoroughly explained, will be in- evitable ; and this l’esult usually occurs within the first twenty-four or forty- eight hours. Even with a less extent of cutaneous surface involved, the prognosis should be guarded. In burns of the third degree, which are only caused by the application of intense heat, the prognosis will depend not merely upon the depth to which the tissues have been destroyed, but upon the region or part of the body involved, as well as upon the sex, age, tem- perament, and previous constitutional condition of the patient. Fatal results are sometimes observed even after slight burns of the third degree, especially in the cases of children and old people. During the past twenty years, at the Pennsylvania Hospital, there have been 220 deaths from burns and scalds, 122 of which occurred within the first forty-eight hours, while 74 perished between the second and the fourteenth days; 21 between the four- teenth and the thirtieth days ; and the three remaining cases respectively on the 38th, 54th, and 115th days. Of 1554 cases of burns or scalds treated in the same in- stitution, 417 in all have ended fatally—a mortality of about 26 per cent. In the last series of 258 cases, 71 patients have died; of these 45 perished from shock, 15 from exhaustion, 3 from bronchitis, 4 from tetanus, and a like number from traumatic delirium. There were 45 deaths within the first twenty-four hours after the patients’ admission ; 16 of the remainder prior to the eleventh day; 9 between the eleventh and the twenty-fourth days ; and one on the forty-sixth day, from exhaustion and diarrhoea. Of the 258 cases, 91 were scalds from steam, hot coffee, etc.; 63 from burning petro- leum ; 43 from grates, fires, stoves, or furnaces ; 29 from miscellaneous causes; 20 from explosions of gunpowder, or blasting; 7 from boiling lard, soaps, or syrups; 3 from oil of vitriol, muriatic acid, or lime; and 2 from molten iron. The mortality in this series of cases was a little more than 27 per cent. It is perhaps fortunate, as well for the patient as for the hospital, that the subjects of the more severe and quickly-fatal burns and scalds die during shock within a very short time, as they often do, without experiencing pain ; for at this tim© the sensibilities are all blunted, whereas whenever partial reaction occurs, the suffering is excessive, and but little can then be done to make the patient’s brief existence at all bearable. Treatment of Burns and Scalds. In the management of burns and scalds, the treatment will vary in ac- cordance with the severity of the injury; the indications, however, are at once to relieve the pain, and to overcome shock; subsequently, to guard against congestions and inflammations of internal organs; and still later, in the third stage, to counteract the exhaustion incident to sloughing and the various other sources of depression; to support the patient’s strength by a plentiful supply of nourishing food, combined with the judicious use of stimulants, and associated with quinine, iron, and the mineral acids. In burns of the first degree there are usually no constitutional symptoms which require special treatment, though now and then, from the great extent of surface involved, there is shock, which rest and anodynes soon relieve. The local VOL. II.—16