124 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. of the brain, struck the skull on the left side, and was turned almost at a right angle to its previous course, and lodged in the left posterior lobe. The old-time round hall was very apt to glance and pursue an erratic way, at times making a complete circuit of the body, and emerging through the entrance wound. A spherical shot of considerable size may be turned aside; thus Otis reports a case in which a “one and a quarter inch grape, from a battery about three hundred yards distance, was deflected on striking the hyoid bone, and buried itself in the muscles over the right shoulder-blade.” Even when the direction has been determined and the track followed, it may not be easy to ascertain the location of the ball. It may be masked by a piece of cloth (and nothing but the finger will, as a rule, recognize the pres- ence of such), or it may be a question whether the probe is in contact with ball or bone; a question that of late years has ordinarily been settled by the employment of the “.Nelaton probe” (Fig. 244), the unglazed porcelain tip of Fig. 244. Nelaton’s bullet probe. which will take a slight bluish stain when rubbed or pressed upon lead. (Having once taken such a stain, however, it is likely to ever after retain it, so that practically a fresh instrument will be required for each new case that is to be examined.) In default of a probe, a clean clay pipestem,1 or a piece of soft pine may be advantageously used as a searcher. At times it may be practicable to pass in a pair of cutting forceps, and bite oft' a small piece of the body, examination of which will reveal its metallic or other nature. Various electrical appliances have been used: either probes to be carried along the track of the wound—contact with the metallic foreign body causing the ringing of an attached bell, or deflection of a galvanometer; or needles thrust through the overlying tissues and made to touch the supposed ball, and, by the establishment of a circuit, act on an annunciator or galva- nometer; or surface electrodes, which in passing the current through the lead, will cause pain, burning, tingling, and perhaps shock. Thus far the use of electricity in enabling the surgeon to recognize the existence and location of a ball, has been but limited, and, in the main, unsatisfactory in its results. Of such chemical methods as that of Deneux, who suggested the use of a weak acid, either upon an exploring instrument or injected through the track, it may be well said that “ though they are ingenious, they are too delicate and too uncertain to be of any great service in Military Surgery.” (Rochard.) Where no positive evidence of the location of the projectile can be obtained, either by exploration of the wound or by palpation of the area of the skin towards which it must have passed, its position in a particular part is often rendered very probable by the localized pain which is experienced, by the swelling which, after a few days, is developed, and by the decided interfer- ence with the making of certain movements which is recognized. Wounds of Entrance and Exit. Speaking generally, the entrance wound is smaller than that of exit; but under certain cirumstances, and at certain times, the reverse is found to be 1 Legouest, ten years ago, reported that he was in the habit of using the clay pipestem, and Heighway employed it during our late war with Mexico, twenty-five years earlier.