GONORRIKEA. 374 to the ounce, and cojnbining it, if there be any lingering sensitiveness or ten- dency to scalding, with morphia or dilute hydrocyanic acid, as in the fol- lowing prescriptions:— R Morphias sulphat. gr. j. Zinci sulphat. gr. viij. Aquas ros. f§iv. M. R.—Zinci sulphat. gr. viij. Acid, hydrocyanic, dil. gtt. xij. Aquas ros. f|iv. M. In this, as in all other cases, if the injection proves to be painful, it should be diluted; if painless, and if it does not entirely control the discharge, it should be strengthened. Now, under this treatment, in many instances, the discharge will disappear, and no further symptoms manifest themselves, unless, as often occurs, treat- ment is prematurely discontinued. The only safe rule to follow is to instruct the patient gradually to stop the use of injections and decrease the dose of medicines, omitting first the mid-day portions, then those of the morning, and last of all those taken just before going to bed ; the whole process shoufd extend over ten days. He should be cautioned also against frequent or vigor- ous “ stripping” of the urethra for purposes of inspection. Treatment of Persistent Urethral Discharges.—If, in spite of the in- jections as above given, the discharge continues, recourse may be had to stronger solutions, the sensibility of the urethra being taken as the index. In this way five or six grains of zinc to the ounce will often effect a cure when weaker injections have failed. Or acetate of zinc, tannin, sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, sulpho-carbolate of zinc, alum, tincture of catechu, hydrastin, and various other drugs, may be employed occasionally with ad- vantage. Surgeon-Major Wilson reports in the Lancet, for September, 1881, sixteen cases of gonorrhoea treated by injections of sulphurous acid and water, one part to fifteen. He says that under this treatment the purulent discharge becomes scanty on the first day, and on the third day is replaced by a thin gleety discharge, which also disappears in a few days. It is probable that his cases were of the “ irritative” kind, and would have recovered as soon with any treatment not absolutely prejudicial. Dr. F. R. Fry1 attrib- utes Mr. Wilson’s success to the fact that he was dealing with “ non-specific” urethritis, which is about equivalent to my own understanding of his results. A remedy which has acquired considerable reputation as an injection is the hydrastis canadensis, or “golden seal,” the fluid extract being the preparation generally em- ployed. It is used either alone or in combination with some astringent and sedative, as follows:— R Ext. hydrastis fld. f5vj. Zinci sulph. gr. xij. Morphiae sulph. gr. ij. Mucilag. acaciae, f^j. Aquae, f§iij. M. Radha Nauth Roy, Assistant Surgeon, Aliquah, reports great success attending the use of injections of quinine in both the acute and chronic stages of gonorrhoea. He employs a solution of two grains in eight minims of dilute sulphuric acid and a fluid- ounce of rose-water, and says that it “acts like a charm,” the disease generally being cured within a week.2 Experiments witli this mode of treatment, made at the Venereal 1 St. Louis Courier of Medicine, October, 1881. * Indian Medical Gazette, May 1, 1876.