SYPHILIS OF THE RESPIRATORY PASSAGES. 533 tissue or of circumscribed gummatous tumors. In the bronchial tubes the lesions are apt to be found near the bifurcations. The symptoms which mark the syphilitic affections of the trachea and bronchi vary somewhat according to the nature of the lesions. Their earlier appearance and progress are insidious, and patients are frequently ignorant of their existence. A slight difficulty of respiration, a little cough, and the feeling as of something in the air passages perceived about opposite the upper end of the sternum, comprise the ordinary symptoms. The respiration may also be a little harsh or hissing in some cases, there may be some oppression on going up stairs, or a sense of suffocation at night, with a dry cough. At a more advanced stage of the affection the cough is more frequent and trouble- some, and muco-purulent sputa, striated with blood, or nummular, yellowish- green sputa, are observed. Auscultation fails to reveal any abnormal respira- tory sound. The symptoms mentioned persist for some time and then begin to diminish, especially if appropriate medication is employed. The ameliora- tion is not permanent, however, for when cicatrization begins, the symptoms previously observed once more set in, only in a more marked degree, and with less hope of improvement through medication. One of the most important symptoms observed at this period occurs in the form of suffocative attacks coming on suddenly, and without any well-defined cause, and sometimes so severe and so frequently repeated as to endanger life. Lowering of the larynx and immobility of this organ during speech and deglutition, are likewise to be noted as important symptoms of tracheal syphilis at an advanced stage. In addition, a peculiar hardness of the trachea may be perceived by the touch, and a diminished degree of mobility on the part of this organ among the surrounding tissues. It is said that one may at times perceive the lesions in situ by the aid of a laryngeal mirror, but this view I fear will not often be granted excepting to the expert laryngoscopist. When the disease affects the bronchial tubes only, the symptoms are some- what different from those described above. It was formerly supposed that the bronchial tubes were ouly affected secondarily from the throat, or at least subsequently to it, but this is very frequently not the case. The first symp- toms are very similar to those of ordinary catarrh. The voice is altered, however; there is continual dryness and irritation in the larynx, which gradually extends to the bronchial tubes. Patients suffer from a sensation of painful constriction over the sternum, with a dry cough. At a later period the sputa appear of a purulent character, and indicate suppuration. Hectic fever is now observed, if it has not previously appeared; dyspnoea is common; and the patient may finally die in an attack of suffocation. These affections are rare, and often fatal, especially when the trachea is involved, because of the difficulty of recognizing the disease in time to apply proper remedies. The diagnosis of syphilis of the trachea and bronchi is chiefly made by ob- serving the symptoms of dyspnoea, a peculiar wheezing sound in inspiration —the voice preserving almost its natural timbre—pain, or a sensation of a foreign body at some point in the air-passages, and, subsequently, attacks of suffocation without appreciable pulmonary lesion.1 As to the treatment appropriate to these affections, it may be said that mer- cury is perhaps the best remedy, since iodide of potassium has been known in some instances to provoke oedema, which is likely to complicate matters. 1 For farther information, especially as to the differential diagnosis of syphilis of the trachea and bronchi, reference may be made to Lancereaux (op. cit., p. 321), and Biermer, Mem. sur les Re- treciss. de la Tractive et des Bronches (Gaz des Hdpitaux, Sept. 9. 1869); two cases, one by Mois- senet, the other by Demarquay, where fatal dyspnoea resulted from cicatricial stenosis of the air- passages following the healing of a syphilitic lesion, are given in the Annuaire de la Syphilis, 1858, p. 324, and are quoted by Bumstead and Taylor (op. cit., p. 624).