139 TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Actual Cautery.—The hot iron has often been very advantageously applied to bleeding surfaces, but its use is always attended with risk of recurrence of the hemorrhage upon the detachment of the slough which it produces. Ligature.—By far the surest and best haemostatic is the ligature, which should be applied, whenever possible, to the wounded vessel just above and below the point of injury. When placed at a distance, on the proximal side, it may control the bleeding; but very often with the establishment of the collateral circulation, the hemorrhage will begin again, and there will then have been added to the original wound one higher up, and with it a new danger from premature separation of the ligature. Dupuytren’s opinion that tying the artery in the midst of inflamed and suppurating tissue would prob- ably result in too early cutting through of the thread, and consequent bleeding, has over and again been proved to have been an erroneous one, and surgeons to-day are almost unanimous in declaring that a wounded and bleeding ex- ternal artery should be sought for and tied in the wound. It may be found that the blood is issuing from a vessel of but small size, and at times, when the shot track is opened up, the source of the hemorrhage may not be discov- ered ; but the bleeding will nevertheless probably stop not to begin again. In a musket-ball wound of the popliteal space, secondary hemorrhage came on in such amount as to make it probable that it was from the popliteal artery ; yet, when the track of the wound was laid open, I could not find the injured vessel. There was no bleeding afterwards. Abundant cases are on record, in which ligations of important trunks have been practised—sometimes with resulting death—and in which the hemor- rhage has subsequently been ascertained to have arisen from easily found ves- sels that might and should have been tied. Shall an artery that has bled, but is not actually bleeding, be ligated? Guthrie said Ho ; but for want of ligation in such a case, when the bleeding has been secondary, many a life has been lost. Though it may not be neces- sary, it is certainly safer, when the hemorrhage is known to have come from a large vessel, to expose this and tie it; and this should be the rule in all cases other than those of primary bleeding. In these, no operative interfer- ence should be adopted until recurrence of the hemorrhage has proved that it is required. Venous Wounds should be treated on the same principle as those of arteries. Properly applied compression is more likely to produce a favorable result in these than in arterial wounds, and should, as a rule, be the method employed. When, however, a large venous trunk has been wounded, it should be tied. If the opening in the vein involves but a small part of the circumference of the vessel, lateral ligation, as recommended by Travers, may be adopted, but it is very apt to be followed by secondary bleeding. In all cases of wounds of the main venous trunks, there is much danger of resulting death, from gangrene, recurrent hemorrhage, or pyaemia. Langenbeck has advised that in this class of injuries, both the main artery and the vein should be simul- taneously ligated, or the artery alone tied, declaring that when double ligation is practised, gangrene of the parts beyond “ could only occur if extensive thrombosis of both trunks should prevent the establishment of the collateral circulation and believing that “ ligation of the wounded vein will without doubt prove unnecessary, and should, as a rule, be avoided, on account of the danger of thrombosis.” In such treatment of both the artery and the vein, or simply of the artery, he thinks we have a “sure remedy to control venous hemorrhages that have heretofore been considered absolutely fatal.” Whether