549 SYPHILIS OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. but corroborative evidence of this has not as yet been brought forward by other observers. Symptomatology.1—Headache is met with in about one-third of all cases of syphilitic brain disease. The pain is different from that experienced in early cephalic periostitis; it is deep-seated, and is felt to be so by the patient. In some cases it may last for several months without being at any time exces- sive ; it is dull and heavy, and the patient is able to go about his ordinary occupations in spite of it. Occasionally, however, the sensation of pain is excessive; the older writers exhausted language in the attempt to express its intensity and character. Sometimes there is a sense of constriction, as if the head were being squeezed in a vise; sometimes it feels as if it were being hammered; at other times the patient feels as if a ball of fire were rolling about within his skull. Delirium, acute and even suicidal, and heavy stupor, physical and mental, are sometimes experienced. Nocturnal exacerbation is characteristic of this as of other syphilitic affections, the exceptions being rare. Another characteristic is the long persistence of the pain where medication has not been employed. Cases have been reported in which the pain had persisted for ten and even twenty-five years, and it is not infrequent to see cases where the head-trouble has resisted the entire arsenal of anti-neuralgic remedies for months, to yield in twenty-four hours to anti-syphilitic medica- tion. The seat of this form of headache is, in seven cases out of ten, frontal or temporal; the posterior portions of the cranium are rarely affected. The pain is diffuse, and not local. Absent, as has been said, in a considerable number of cases, headache is, when present, an early and a very important prodronrc symptom—a call for immediate therapeutic aid to avert almost certainly appending disaster. Un- fortunately, however, it is a symptom too often overlooked, ignored, or mis- understood. Paralysis.—Sensation and motion may be abolished in any portion of the body by the action of the syphilitic poison, but one of the marked charac- teristics of affections of this nature is their partial and often incomplete char- acter. They often succeed convulsive symptoms, aphasia or cephalalgia, and may occur at a very early stage in the syphilitic disease, showing themselves as paralyses of the cranial nerves. Paralysis of Sensory Nerves.—Abolition of olfaction is sometimes observed ; it is commonly, if not always, a sign of intra-cranial disease. The invasion of the affection is very slow and deliberate, and it yields readily to anti- syphilitic treatment. In many patients olfaction is only lost on one side. Anosmia may be due to a lesion of the seventh or of the fifth pair. In case of paralysis of the facial, the muscles of the corresponding nostril become immobile, and present a mechanical obstacle to the perception of odors. When the nasal or superior maxillary nerves are affected, the mucous mem- brane of the nasal fossae may suffer an impairment of nutrition, which may put an entire stop to the performance of the olfactory functions. Abolition of the sense of taste has been reported. Vision may be interfered with by lesions about the roots of the optic nerves.2 Clinically, the loss of vision, occurring suddenly or gradually, accompanied by subjective sensations (muscae volitantes, blue or red sparks, or circles of 1 I have borrowed largely from Jullien in the present and previous parts of this section. 2 For a detailed description of these syphilitic nervous eye affections, see Jullien, op. cit., p. 950.