25 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. ceeds what is essential for the steady perfection of the process, the repair of that part is interfered with. Inflammation (to repeat what has been already said) when it attacks a wound, at first checks repair, subsequently undoes it, and, at a still later period, brings about disorganizing changes. Inflamma- tion has, under all circumstances, a destructive tendency. The student, having learnt how wounded parts heal by nature’s processes, and more particularly how simple incised and open wounds are repaired; and having moreover learnt to recognize some of the most important influ- ences which retard, if they do not arrest, repair, will readily understand the more favorable conditions under which repair can be carried out, and, what is more, will at once appreciate the surgical requirements of the case he may have to treat, so that, as a surgeon, he may know when and where to apply his art, how he can help nature in her beneficent action, and how he can best guard against the intrusion of any outside influences that may tell against the steady progress of the reparative process. For it cannot be too strongly asserted, that the best surgeon is the one who best understands natural pro- cesses in the repair of parts, and who knows how to use them to the greatest advantage; who recognizes the fact that these natural processes are exact and, when applied to the healing of wounds, undeviating; who knows that if he is to utilize these natural processes to the full, he must bring up his art of curing to nature’s line, under the conviction that nature never systematically bends herself, or puts forth her hand, to help the curer; that she never de- viates from her paththat if, using Dr. B. W. Richardson’s words, “ we do not molest her, she goes on, as we say, naturally, towards a cure ; if we molest her a very little, she goes on, and the molestation is but little shown; if we molest her vehemently, she still goes on, showing molestation in proportion to disturbance, nature under all circumstances going her own way, caring just as little for ease as for pain, for life as for death.” When a bone is broken, nature will heal it quite irrespectively of the posi- tion in which it is placed ; when a knuckle of bowel is strangulated, nature will cast it off quite regardless of the effects of such a sloughing act. But the surgeon who knows this, knows moreover that the same natural process will work on where the bone is “ set” in a right position, and maintained there by art; and that the sloughing may be avoided when the strangulated bowel is relieved by art from its false position, and placed where it can be best re- paired by nature’s means. Treatment of Wounds. In the treatment of a simple cut, or incised wo,und, in which there is no dirt or foreign matter to keep the edges of the wound apart, and to act as an irritant or exciter of overaction, and no hemorrhage beyond capillary or venous bleeding which can be arrested by elevation of the part, moderate pressure, or the application of a cold or hot sponge, the surgeon has simply to cleanse the wound, bringing its edges carefully together, and adopt means to keep them so, while at the same time he makes such provision for the protection of the part as may secure it from injury from without or within, and may allow the reparative process which has been described as taking place in primary union to be quietly perfected. In more severe wounds, a similar practice is to be advocated, though more care may be called for in cleansing the wound; more caution required in the arrest of bleeding; and more ingenuity demanded in bringing the edges of the wound together, as well as in so fixing the injured part in position that the patient may be com- fortable, while the wound is kept immobile and protected from such injuri-