347 COMPLICATIONS OF CATARRHAL GONORRIKEA. Dr. Da Costa says, in a clinical lecture, “ This case demonstrates what I am in the habit of teaching, that gonorrhoeal rheumatism is, in truth, a form of pyaemic rheuma- tism, involving special features, and requiring special treatment.”1 Senator considers that the most probable explanation is that the inflammatory irrita- tion is gradually propagated from the urethra to the sacral plexus and the spinal cord, where it affects trophic nerve fibres. Gonorrhoeal urethritis would thus be assimilated to those articular disorders which occur in diseases of the spinal marrow.2 Agnew teaches that it is septicsemic in its character.3 The symptoms of this complication come on rapidly, usually during the later stages of either an acute or catarrhal gonorrhoea. The patient, without any premonitory signs, or perhaps after a slight chill or “creep” and a little febrile disturbance, notices pain and swelling in an articulation, commonly the knee, ankle, wrist, or elbow, in order of frequency.4 Within a few hours the swelling, due to synovial exudation,5 increases, the joint becomes moderately red and hot, and very tender, the suffering on touch or movement being great. It may remain in this condition for some time, may involve neighboring tissues, producing a general arthritis, or may in a very few cases subside rapidly. There are few if any constitutional symptoms. The disease in a certain number of cases only develops vague travelling pains in joints, bones, and muscles, and does not produce well-marked local symptoms. “ In the Archives Generates de Medecine for May, 1881, MM. Duplay and Brun discuss a form of gonorrhoeal arthritis which, according to them, has not before been fully described. This variety of arthritis may come on suddenly, without any known immediate cause, or it may follow slight injury. Most frequently, however, it is pre- ceded by malaise, slight fever, loss of appetite, etc. The first symptom is pain, which comes on with great acuteness. The pain begins, and is always worst, just at the spot where the articular surfaces of the bones touch eacli other, and is increased at night. Besides this spontaneous pain, acute suffering is caused by pressure above the joint. Swelling soon follows the pain, and it also first appears exactly at the line of junction of the bones which form the joint. There is little or no effusion into the synovial cavity, the swelling being chiefly due to infiltration of the periarticular tissues. The oedema extends above and below the affected joint, and sometimes there is an obscure kind of fluctuation, leading to a suspicion of abscess. Two cases are mentioned in which incisions were made under this belief. The swelling is not due to effusion into the sheaths of the tendons. In the treatment of this form of arthritis, the most impor- tant point is absolute rest of the joint by means of a plaster-of-Paris bandage. The pain then soon disappears, and, in favorable cases, the joint recovers almost entirely. If, however, the joint be not fixed until several days after the onset, more or less stiff- ness is likely to remain; and if the affection be neglected altogether, anchylosis will probably occur; indeed this sometimes happens in spite of careful treatment. The wrist and the elbow appear to be the joints most frequently attacked, while the knee, which is frequently the seat of the effusive form (hydrarthrosis;, is comparatively seldom involved. However, any joint may suffer, and the authors have seen marked examples of this form of arthritis in the metacarpal, phalangeal, and sterno-clavicular articulations. But whatever joint is attacked, the symptoms are essentially those which have just been described. The paper concludes with notes of six cases (three of the 1 College and Clinical Record, July 15, 1881. 1 Ziemssen, Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. xvi. p. 73. 3 Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 474. * In one hundred and twenty cases of gonorrhoeal rheumatism tabulated by Fournier, the whole number of joints affected was two hundred and twelve: the knee eiglxty-three times ; ankle, thirty-two times ; fingers and toes, twenty-five times. He divided the diseases into three varieties : (a)A monarticular hydrarthrosis ; (6) A more generalized affection resembling ordinary rheumatism, but more stationary and protracted, less mobile, unattended with marked.constitu- tional symptoms, etc.; (c) Vague general pain without much structural alteration. 5 M. Gosselin says, “ It is very rare that we find exudation in an articulation in consequence of a blennorrhagic arthritis.” (Gazette des Hopitaux, No. 17, 1881.)