578 SYPHILIS. of gummatous lesions calls for direct medication to resolve them, while at the same time the tonic treatment of mercury is to be kept up. Among the various forms in which iodide of potassium and mercury may he administered in combination, the “ Sirop Gibert” (the formula for which has already been given), is, I think, as good as any. Keyes recom- mends the following:— R.—Hydrarg. biniodid. gr. ss ad j. Potassii iodidi, 3ij. Ammonii iodidi, 3ss. Syr. aurantii corticis, f^ij. Tinct. aurantii corticis, f3.j- Aquas destillatas, q. s. adi^iv. M. Dose, a teaspoonful, containing ^ grain to a -gk grain of thebiniodide of mercury, and four grains of the iodide of potassium. When it is desired to give the corrosive chloride of mercury combined with iodide of potassium, this formula may be employed:— R—Hydrarg. cblor. corrosiv. gr. j. Potass, iodid. Jiiss. Vini ferri, f§iv. M. Dose, a teaspoonful. I sometimes give protiodide of mercury pills at the same time as the solu- tion of iodide of potassium, or the pills before and the iodide after meals. Another method of employing the “ mixed treatment” is to prescribe mercury by inunction, and the iodide of potassium internally. Local Treatment.—I have said something about the local treatment of the various syphilitic affections when dealing with the latter in the earlier por- tion of this article. At the risk of some repetition, however, I think it well to give some general suggestions and formulae for the treatment of such lesions as can be reached by local agencies. The local treatment of chancre has already been sufficiently described, as have also the local applications employed in alopecia, and in the lesions of the mucous membranes. (See pages 474, 508, 510.) I may add here, however, a very elegant, and also a quite useful formula for a mouth wash, to be used by way of prophylaxis in the earlier months of syphilis:— Eau de Botot, f§vj. Tincture of cochlearia, f^iiss. Tincture of cinchona, f3’j- Tincture of catechu, f 3j- Tincture of benzoin, f5ss. A small quantity is mixed with water and used as a gargle morning and evening, and after meals. The necessity of absolute cleanliness need hardly he mentioned. Where there is any discharge, whether from a suppurating lesion upon the skin, or from any of the cavities of the body, that discharge should never be allowed to accumulate. There is no “ laudable” pus in syphilis: the discharges are all poisonous. In addition to the free use of soap and water, disinfectant washes, such as Labarraque’s solution of chlorinated soda, may be employed, or those containing carbolic acid; such as the following:— R Acid, carbolic, fjiss. Glycerime, f§ss. Aquas, ad. f^viij. M. To be used in a state of more or less dilution, according to the locality.