664^ SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. upon man in America, that in its other phase of existence it is also more abundant amongst us than elsewhere. In children, ordinary circinate ring- worm, occurring most commonly upon the hands and arms, face, and neck, is generally taken by playing with other children similarly affected, whereas the form which occurs upon the scalp is often taken by putting on the cap, or using the brush and comb, of another child who is already suffering from the disease. The obstinacy and duration of this latter variety of the affec- tion, offer protracted chances of such communication. Upon adults, in the form of sycosis, the disease is almost always contracted at the barber’s shop, by shaving, as above described; rarely at shops where only hair dressing is done. The marginate forms, occurring about the genitals, may possibly be conveyed during sexual intercourse. All forms, however, are intercommuni- cable. The frequent occurrence of the disease upon domestic animals is a common source of contagion. The animals thus affected are the cat, dog, ox, and hare. There is no reason for supposing any peculiar condition of the skin to be necessary for the development of the disease. There is no doubt a dif- ference, according to individual cutaneous temperament and the general state of the economy, in the reaction of the skin under the parasitic irritation, and in the secondary manifestations, but nothing more that I have observed. Treatment of Tinea Tricophytina.—In the ordinary circinate or ringworm stage, upon non-hairy portions of the body, the growth of the plant is quite superficial, and very simple agents are often sufficient to work an immediate cure, if thoroughly employed. Among these agents are acetic acid, carbolic acid in various forms, iodine, sulphurous acid, preparations of sulphur, tar, etc. The danger in relying upon them is that the disease appears to be well before the growth in the lower layers of the epidermis is destroyed. Treat- ment is therefore stopped, and relapses follow. Such imperfect management of the first stage of ringworm by the physician, is a frequent cause of the more serious forms of the disease. Generally speaking, it is necessary to continue treatment of the simple circinate variety long after all traces of the disease have disappeared. When it affects hairy parts, such as the scalp or beard, the time required for a cure is always much longer, and is certainly a matter of months—sometimes of many months. Inasmuch as the plant after a time extends to the very base of the hair follicles in these parts, that is, to the extreme depths of the skin, it is necessary to make the parasiticides em- ployed penetrate to these depths, else they will not come in contact with the growth nor destroy it. For not only are the spores within the follicles pro- tected from the action of these drugs by the presence of the hairs, hut these are themselves filled with the cryptogamic growth. By pulling out the affected hairs, therefore, we not only remove a part of the disease at once, but also open the hair sacs to the entrance of our remedies. Epilation then must be regarded as a necessity, when the disease affects the heard or scalp. Cases may indeed recover without resorting to it, but the cure is, under such circumstances, much more uncertain and protracted. Xot only the stumps within the affected district, but the hairs immediately surrounding it, and not yet showing signs of disease, should be removed. They are easily ex- tracted with broad-bladed forceps, and should be burned as soon as pulled. There is of course no danger of permanent baldness from such pulling, and the new growth which follows has to be removed in some cases a second time. As many hairs as possible should be extracted at one sitting without produc- ing too much irritation in any one portion of the diseased patch. The choice of parasiticides must depend in some degree upon the seat, ex- tent, and surface condition in individual cases. Where the accompanying eczematous inflammation is especially severe, or where the deeper-seated in-