646 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. soles, singly or in numbers. The skin in such patches is smooth and some- what thickened. They may remain in this condition for weeks and months, changing somewhat their shape and size, and may partly disappear. After a time, it may be a few years even, some of the spots become more elevated, and elsewhere real tubercles appear, varying in size from that of a small shot to that of a filbert, of a dull or brownish-red color, shining or scaly, elastic and rather soft to the touch, discrete, or forming by confluence large irregu- larly shaped prominences. They appear in greatest numbers on the face, especially about the forehead and nose, forming above the eyes thickened areas of skin, which ovei'hang them and give so marked a prominence to this region as to cause the face to resemble that of the lion (Leontiasis). The nose, too, becomes uneven, and broadens, and the lips are greatly thickened, so that altogether great facial deformity results. The tubercles appear also upon the mucous membranes of the nose, buccal cavity, and trachea. They affect, too, the conjunctiva and cornea. Upon the trunk and limbs, they show themselves scattered and grouped as prominences and embedded nodular masses. Every- where they exhibit a sluggish course. Some, after months, are reabsorbed, leaving dark pigment stains ; others undergo degeneration and soften, forming indolent, shallow ulcers, which last indefinitely. Over the joints especially of the lower extremities, the destructive process penetrates more deeply, and is accompanied by inflammation of the lymphatics, suppuration of joints, and loss of members, such as the fingers and toes—Lepra mutilans. After a time, and before such grave structural changes have taken place, the general condition of the patient shows serious involvement of the internal organs. Frequent exacerbations of fever come on, and diarrhoea, inflammation of the lungs, or cerebral symptoms develop, and either prove fatal or subside to renew them- selves in subsequent exacerbations. Thus the disease progresses, sometimes with exceptional rapidity, terminating by death in two or three years, but generally protracted through a period of alternate activity and inactivity, of nine or ten years. Lepra maculosa, the macular variety of the disease, appears in the form of the spots above mentioned, of a reddish-brown color, or of a yellowish-white aspect, circular or streaked in shape, and with or without infiltration. The red or brown spots (Morphcea rubra and Morphcea nigra of authors) may gradu- ally become pale in the centre, and finally wholly white {Morphcea alba), or the integument may atrophy (Morphcea atrophica), or the spots may assume a hard, bacon-like form of infiltration (Morphcea lardacea), and subsequently undergo atrophy. The spots more frequently occur upon parts protected by the clothing. Lepra maculosa may pass into the form just described, Lepra tuberosa, or, by assuming its peculiar nervous phenomena, into the third variety, which is Lepra anozsthetica. This is characterized by the occurrence of anaesthetic patches of skin, which may develop upon the macular or tuber- cular efflorescence of the preceding varieties, or upon the seats of bullae which form a conspicuous prodromal feature in this form of leprosy for months or even years, or which may appear upon portions of the integument previously and otherwise normal. The anaesthesia is at times so complete that a needle may be run into such patches to a considerable extent without the knowledge of the patient. This loss of sensibility is often preceded for a long time by congestion and hyperaesthesia of the parts, and both this excess and loss of nervous susceptibility may frequently shift their position. When the anaes- thesia becomes permanent, such spots may become deeply pigmented and atrophied. This atrophy extends to the muscular tissues also, giving rise to changes in the expression of the countenance, and inability to close the eye- lids and mouth. The trunks of the brachial nerves are to be felt as swollen and painful cords, and the fingers remain in a semi-flexed condition. The