INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS,®. 694 whole extremity is impending, and can only be averted by such local deple- tion of the bloodvessels as will permit the circulation to go on, and thus prevent strangulation of the tissues. After the cessation of the bleeding, a bladder of pounded ice should be kept constantly applied, or cold evaporating applications, such as a spirit lotion, or lead-water and laudanum; or, in default of anything better, simple cold water may be used. If, in despite of all these measures, suppuration should occur, poultices should be substituted. When pus has fully formed, it must be evacuated by some means. If the suppurating sac does not communicate with a joint, the knife—best with antiseptic precautions—should be made use of. On the other hand, when there is ground for thinking that the bursa opens into a contiguous joint, a careful aspiration under the spray must be the first resort. If, after repeated tappings, pus reaccumulates and will manifestly discharge itself, the abscess should be boldly laid open, but only under the strictest antiseptic precautions. Where such measures are impossible, owing to want of apparatus, “hyper- distension” with a two per cent, solution of carbolic acid, after Callender’s method, should be substituted. It is well to be certain that pus, not serum, is present, as incisions under the latter circumstances have proved fatal by favoring septic absorption.1 Incisions into inflamed tissues, as Paget2 has ably pointed out, should, when possible, be avoided, since they are exceedingly apt, as I have seen myself, to be followed by the development of phlegmonous erysipelas. The surgeon must, however, beware of allowing pus to remain confined in the bursae contiguous to joints, lest the sac rupture subcutaneously, and the pus set up a diffuse periarthritic suppuration, or lest a similar disaster result simply from the inflammation spreading by contiguity of tissue, for want of a proper vent for the irritating matter. In a doubtful case, the aspirator or an exploring needle will either secure the safe removal of what- ever is present, or show that the knife is not needed. Should the suppuration be excessive, tonics, such as iron, quinia, or bark, ammonia, good food, and stimulants, must be exhibited. Erysipelas, including erysipelatous cellulitis, must be treated as if occurring from any other trauma- tism, by iron, opium, quinia, etc., and, if necessary, by appropriate incisions. Should sloughing occur, yeast or charcoal poultices should be applied, and when the surface cleans off, the sore, as well as the troublesome sinuses which occasionally result, must be treated on general principles. Sinuses when recent can often be made to heal by appropriate pads or compresses firmly applied. In the event of their failure, when the case becomes chronic, injec- tions of some irritant, sufficiently concentrated to set up a degree of inflamma- tion which will give rise to granulations, such as iodine or carbolic acid, should be tried. An oakum seton may also prove useful. Where no important parts intervene, the sinuses should be laid open with the knife or galvano-cautery. The latter instrument is the better, since the heated wire effectually destroys the indurated walls, so as to demand less care in the after-dressings to insure healing from the bottom. Subacute Bursitis.—The first symptom consists in a local tenderness on pressure, which produces a peculiar sense of crepitation beneath the fingers. This is due to a slight serous effusion, and can be detected before any local swelling occurs. In all other respects the symptoms detailed under the head of acute bursitis are present, but in many cases the constitutional and local symptoms are very slightly marked. Subcutaneous rupture sometimes occurs, either spontaneously or from slight force. This results either in a cure or in 1 Dupuytren and others have recorded such cases. * Clinical Lectures and Essays, 1st ed., pp. 58-66.