281 INDOLENT OR CALLOUS ULCERS. to the very margin of the ulcer; the parts about are hard, dusky in color, and infiltrated. The circulation is feeble, as is shown by the slow return of color after the blood has been driven out by pressure with the finger; the blood circulating in and about the ulcer is largely venous. The ulcer and parts about may be handled rudely without giving pain. Such ulcers are not inclined to bleed. For a time, granulations may spring up, and the heal- ing process go on favorably, but, from the insufficient blood-supply and im- perfect tissue-changes in and about the ulcer, the progress is slow, and the new tissue when formed breaks down easily. In fact, the chronic infiltration in the parts about the sore has diminished and retarded the blood-flow ; the bloodvessels are changed to stiff, inelastic tubes ; and the tissues themselves have little assimilative force. Treatment of Indolent Ulcers.—Such a patient in a hospital, where he can have rest, is easily cured ; but, when turned out again to earn a living, some accident soon opens the old sore, and it. passes rapidly to its former condition. Let the patient be confined to bed, with the leg a little elevated, a poultice of linseed meal applied and renewed every five or six hours, and, within three or four days, the dry, thick epithelium will entirely disappear, the grayish-yellow secretion of the ulcer will be cleaned away, and granu- lations of a pinkish hue will cover the surface. Then a solution of chloral- hydrate, ten grains to the ounce, may be applied on lint directly to the ulcer. This may be covered with a piece of sheet gutta-percha, and this with a pad of cotton-wool, all being secured by a bandage snugly enveloping the limb and extending several inches above the ulcer. This dressing should be changed once in twenty-four hours, and the limb washed with a weak solu- tion of carbolic acid every time the dressings are changed. In the beginning, the process of repair will be rapid, the granulations soon reaching the level of the surrounding skin; the indurated border will soften down, and the color will change from its former dark purple to a lighter hue. The pro- gress of cicatrization will be shown by the light pink circle bordering the granulations, and by the delicate new epithelium shading off into the firmer and older normal epidermis. This plan of dressing may be pursued until a broad margin of new epithelium is formed all around the ulcer, and until the healing becomes tardy. At this time the granulations will be smooth, not bright and red from the excess of blood as in rapidly forming granulations, but paler, smoother, and smaller. This is the condition most favorable for grafting. But all old sore shins do not yield so readily. When the connective tissue is deeply infiltrated; the epithelium dense, horny, and thick; the secretion thin and sticky like peach-gum; the base of the ulcer dense, infiltrated, and devoid of sensibility, more time will be required. The induration of the base and margins of the ulcer may be speedily softened by a warm-water bath continued several days, the water being repeatedly renewed and the softened epithelium wiped off; or a large flaxseed poultice may be applied, and changed every six hours, until the induration has measurably dis- appeared, and until the ulcer has begun to show granulations on its surface. A fly blister, covering the ulcer and extending several inches beyond its margin, should then be applied and covered by a poultice, which should be left undisturbed for six or eight hours; the blister will provoke an abundant serous discharge, which may be encouraged by a pad of absorbent cotton saturated with glycerine. This dressing, continued for several days, will generally leave the surrounding tissues much softened, after which the dressing of chloral, etc., may be employed. Should this course not result in softening of the surrounding parts, they may be painted with the tincture of