GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 172 sive straps are of little service, since they soon become loosened and slip. Hot applications at times are much more comfortable and better adapted to mode- rate inflammation than cold. Cranial Bones.—Like other bones, those of the cranium may be either con- tused or broken; such lesions are, as a rule, more serious than when conse- Fig. 270. Fig. 271. Necrosis following gunshot fracture of right parietal bone. (A. M. M., Sect. 1, Spec. 3859.) quent upon an ordinary blow, or fall, and are more apt to be associated with cerebral injury. Contusion of Cranium.—The contusion may be slight, unrecognized, aud quickly recovered from, as it is likely to be when due to a small pistol-ball wound; or may be so severe as to kill at once the injured part; or may be followed by acute or chronic bone inflammation, causing subperiosteal effusion or exudation, suppurative osteo-periostitis, or necrosis—caries is rarely ob- served—one or all; and complicated with severe inflammation of the overlying soft parts, meningo-encephalitis, cerebral abscess, or pyaemia.1 Not infrequently it happens that no symptoms of bone-injury show them- selves for many days, when suddenly violent cephalalgia is experienced, soon followed by convulsions, coma, and death from intracranial suppuration. Very generally, however, if primary laceration of the meningeal vessels causing compression from blood-clot has not taken place, there will be ex- perienced, after recovery from the immediate effects of the wound, it may be for a long time, headache of greater or less severity, associated in many cases with dizziness, intolerance of light and sound, nausea, and vomiting. Simple periostitis does not often occur, and no case of diffuse inflammation of the pericranium was reported during the whole course of our late war. Osteo- periostitis may be indicated by the presence of the “ puffy tumor of Pott,” which however is by no means always present, and by the exudation of pus through the contused bone. Purulent infection manifests itself in the usual way. At a later period exfoliation occurs, either superficial or of the exter- nal table, and, at times, separation of necrosed pieces of the entire thickness of the bone. This necrosis is occasionally primary, hut is generally conse- quent upon inflammation. Hyperostosis or eburnation may, though rarely, lie met with. Chronic cerebral disturbances, more or less well marked, mental irritability, 1 The hepatic abscesses observed long ago, without any pus collections in the lungs, are, it is probable, due to the passage of septic emboli (from thrombi in the diploic veins) from the arteries to the veins, in the lung, in which viscus, besides the usual capillary connection, there is also, as observed by 0. Weber, a “direct merging of the terminal ramifications of the arteries in the rootlets of the veins.” Necrosis following gunshot fracture of right parietal hone. (Interior view.)