403 GONORRHCEA IN ANOMALOUS SITUATIONS. Treatment op Urethritis.—Urethritis in females, as a rule, runs its course very rapidly, and requires but little attention. Injections may be used by the surgeon, their strength being carefully adapted to the sensibility of the mucous membrane, and the almost certainty of their entering the bladder being remembered. The same principles of treatment hold good, and the same solutions are useful, as in urethritis in the male, lead, zinc, and silver being the substances preferred. Copaiba, cubebs, and sandal-wood oil may also be administered with advantage, acting as usual through the urine. No mention has been made of their employment in speaking of the treatment of other forms of female gonorrhoea, as in them the anti-blennorrhagics are worse than useless. Occasionally it may be necessary, in chronic cases, to wipe out the urethra with a probe wrapped in cotton and dipped in a solu- tion of from 20 to 40 grains of nitrate of silver, and in some instances the solid stick has been employed. Treatment of Uterine Gonorrhcea.—The affections of the uterus pro- duced by gonorrhoea require no distinctive or peculiar therapeutic manage- ment. Nitrate of silver for abrasions, leeches for congestion, tampons or suppositories applied through a speculum and retained in contact with the os by elevation of the hips, iodoform, iodine, and all the well-known articles of the gynaecological armamentarium, are here as useful as in other uterine affections; and the same remark applies to the other pelvic and abdominal troubles which may complicate or follow a vaginitis. Gonorrhcea in Anomalous Situations. Gonorrhoea of the ear, mouth, nose, umbilicus, axillae, and rectum has been described by various authors as constituting, in each instance, a distinct variety of the disease, arising from contagion. I may say at once that, having never met with a single instance of any of these complications, I have no belief in their existence; and a review of the literature of the subject but tends to confirm this skepticism. I will quote only a few of the best known authorities:— Jullien1 says : “ We may pass by in silence the auricular, buccal, axillary, and umbi- lical varieties of gonorrhcea, which have not even been proved to be possible.” Berkeley Hill2 has never seen such cases. Bumstead3 has never met with an instance of gonorrhcea of the rectum, and thinks that the existence of the other varieties “ may well be doubted.” Lebert,4 although expressing a belief in the existence of gonorrhcea of the rectum, does not say that he has ever seen such a case, and does not allude to any of the other supposed varieties. In all these works we find quoted a single absurd case reported by A. M. Edwards,5 of a widow who was affected with a serious catarrhal and ulcera- tive condition of the Schneiderian membrane, and who was discovered to have six months previously used a handkerchief supposed to have been contami- nated by her son who was at that time suffering from gonorrhoea! Jullien,6 in addition, mentions one or two mythical cases of nasal gonorrhoea—one reported by Andrew Duncan, in 1784, and one by Forcjades, who attributed it to metastasis, and asserted that it was cured by reproducing the urethral discharge. Hecker, physician to the King of Prussia in 1787, describes 1 Op. cit., p. 212. 2 Op. eit., p. 585. s Op. cit., p. 211. 4 Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. viii. p. 808. * Lancet, April 4, 1857. 6 Op. cit.,p. 209.