BURS.E OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 707 causation is obscure. I have seen subacute inflammation induced in this bursa by a fall upon the buttocks, through the backward impulse of the trunk producing forcible extension of the head. Infra-hyoid Bursa (Sub-hyoid or Thyro-hyoid Hygroma, Sub-hyoidean Ranula).—Except for their higher and somewhat less superficial position, and their occasional interference with respiration and deglutition, the history and symptoms of tumors of this sac closely correspond to those of the ante- thyroid bursa. Diagnosis of Ante-thyroid and Infra-hyoid Bursal Tumors.—As both these bursae move in respii’ation and deglutition, there is some risk of confounding their tumors with cysts of the thyroid gland. Their history, the evidently healthy condition of the gland, and the bloody, grumous character of the fluid evacuated by the exploring needle, render the diagnosis clear. The decision as to which of the two bursae is involved is of no practical moment. Treatment.—Injection with tincture of iodine, after tapping, is probably the safest and best mode of treatment. Incision, with subsequent packing with lint, will effect a prompt and safe cure.1 Excision is in many cases difficult, dangerous, and sometimes impossible to complete. This operation is quite often followed by troublesome fistulae, which are hard to cure. J. II. Pooley2 has suggested that certain congenital median fistula may arise from ante-natal disease of these bursae. These median fistulse are in marked contradistinction to those defects of development resembling “gills” (branchial fistulas), which are always lateral.3 Supra-thyroid Bursa.—The only case of tumor involving this bursa which I have been able to find recorded, is one reported by C. Wagner,4 which presented the following symptoms: A chronic, slowly enlarging swelling, of the size of a walnut, was felt over the thyro-hyoid space. The sensations imparted to the finger were those of a fibro-cystic growth. Some hoarseness and slight cough were complained of. By means of the laryngoscope a large tumor, situated to the left side of the base of the tongue, was readily detected; it pushed the left ventricular band beyond the median line. The swelling was twice incised in the throat, giving vent to a quantity of glairy bursal fluid, but rapidly refilled. After three injections of a weak iodine solution, a complete cure was effected. I myself saw a patient, some ten years ago, who presented all the above symptoms, with difficulty of deglutition, respira- tion, and articulation; but, unfortunately, I have no notes of the case.5 * * Marked enlargements of this sac would interfere with deglutition, respiration, and speech, more than those of any other of the thyroid bursae. Treatment.—After preliminary tapping, a solution of iodine should be injected into the sac. With the aid of the laryngoscope this can be readily done by means of a small syringe, provided with a hollow platinum needle, the point of which should be passed through the pharyngeal wall of the tumor. Should this induce suppuration, an incision must be made at the! same place. (Edema glottidis must be carefully watched for if the inflammation runs high, and on its appearance should be promptly treated. 1 See section on General Treatment, for risks, disadvantages, etc. 8 Medical Record, loc. cit. 8 Peaslee, Ibid. * Ohio Med. and Surg. Jour., 1877, ii. p. 328. 5 In both these cases I merely infer from the situation of the tumor that this bursa was involved, since if the infra-hyoid sac had been enlarged, it would probably rather have advanced outwardly instead of towards the larynx, while the natural position of the supra-thyroid bursa would almost necessitate the latter course.