417 CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. tules were visible. On the same day, at 10 A. M., some pus was taken from one of these pustules of inoculation and inserted beneath the epidermis of the forearm. At 7.30 P. M. it»had already formed a red papule which was slightly prominent. “ The patient’s death, upon the next day,” says Vidal, “prevented me from carrying out this new experiment, which I had already seen succeed several times ; pus taken from the pustules of inoculation causing the generation of new pustules of identical character.” Case III Ch., aged 19, entered February 1, 1853, being ill with typhoid fever of 15 days’ duration. Blisters had been applied to the chest and the calves of the legs, and numerous furuncles and ecthymatous pustules were developed in the neighborhood. On the 7th of February, matter was taken from one of the ecthymatous pustules of the chest, and three punctures were made on the left arm at 10 A. M. At 7 P. M. there was redness, itching, and slight puffiness at the inoculated points. On the 8th, a slight prominence, with redness, was visible. On the 10th, the prominence was very marked, surmounted by a pustule which on the morrow, the fourth day, was very characteristic. The same day I took pus from the pustules by inoculation, and made a fresh inocula- tion upon the same arm. In the evening there was a slight redness and swelling. On the third day, a pustule similar to the one which furnished the matter had made its appearance. The first pustule had begun to desiccate, and on the 16th of February, nine days after its inoculation, it had completely disappeared. On the 16th, the new pustule inoculated on the 11th was in full suppuration. On the 20th inst. it had dried. The crusts in falling off revealed a cicatrix. On March 2, at 10 A. M., I tried a new experiment upon the same patient: I took the matter from a large sanguineo-purulent pustule, resembling a pustule of ecthyma cachecticum, which had developed round a blister on the left calf. This I inoculated upon the left arm. At 8 o’clock that evening there was an elevation, attended with itching. On the 3d and 4th, the redness and swelling had become more pronounced. On the 5th, the apex contained a dirty serum. On the 6th, the fourth day after the in- oculation, a very marked pustule, seated upon a deep red, indurated base, was seen. On the 7th, this pustule, the size of a pea, contained a greenish pus ; the base was less in- durated. On the 8th, it broke during the night and dried up. On the 9th, it was covered with a greenish crust; the indurated base was getting softer. On April 24, when the patient left the hospital, reddish cicatrices showed the points of inoculation. Case IV B., aged 29, entered the hospital October 3, 1861. The patient, who was of a lymphatic temperament, and subject during childhood to eruptions and frequent attacks of ophthalmia, had for the last three months suffered with an impetigo of the face and of the anterior portion of the chest. This affection, which presented all the characteristics of a simple impetigo, com- menced to heal, when, upon the external aspect of the right forearm, four pustules of simple ecthyma made their appearance. On the 19tli of October, without waiting for complete suppuration, I charged the point of a pin with serum from one of these vesico- pustules, and made three inoculations upon the left arm. On the same evening, these three punctures were red, slightly swollen, and the seat of a smarting which attracted the patient’s attention. On the 22d, the fourth day, three pustules had made their appearance. They consisted of a central phlyctenule, filled with a lemon-colored serum, and were seated upon a red, indurated base, surrounded by an areola. On the 23d, the pustules had changed into bullae, which were not filled with pus. The contents were turbid. The mother pustule of the right arm, which had served for the inoculation, was covered with a crust, from beneath which serum exuded, which hardened upon exposure to the air. On the same day (23d), an inoculation was made with matter from the young pus- tules, and a fresh inoculation with matter from the old ones. Besides these, three inocu- lations were made with ecthymatous matter which had been exposed to the vapor of the essential oil of turpentine. On the next day (24th), the following results were noted : (1) The inoculations made with the matter from the original pustules in process of repa- ration had succeeded perfectly; the vesicles were prominent and their periphery red. (2) Those made with matter from the pustules already inoculated, or of the second vol. ii.—27