DEFECTS IN THE HEALING PROCESS, AND DISEASES OF GRANULATIONS. 59 be removed, and the surface cleansed and kept clean, and then stimulated by some stimulating dressing such as carbolized oil 1-40; terebene and oil 1-4; boracic acid lotion 1-10; boracic acid ointment 1-5 ; or chloral or chlorate of potassium lotion, ten grains to the ounce. At the same time, the wounded part should be placed in the most comfortable position, and in that which will be most favorable for the process of repair. The constitutional treatment should likewise be of a tonic and stimulating character, with good, abundant, though simple, food, and with wine or spirits in sufficient quantity to aid its digestion, and to enable the feeble heart to send its contents to the nerve centres, so as to give them force, and to the digestive apparatus, so as to enable it to utilize the food and get rid of effete matter. The patient at the same time should he placed in the best hygienic surroundings. When, however, the failure in primary adhesion is not complete, but par- tial, and when there is the smallest foundation for the hope that by keeping the parts together the required repair may yet be secured, the sutures should be left in position, the wound cleansed with some medicated antiseptic lotion, and, if necessary, either another suture introduced, or some other means em- ployed to bring and to keep the parts well together; even should failure fol- low the attempt to gain primary adhesion, success may follow another effort made to secure secondary adhesion of the granulating surfaces, or union by the third intention. Where the cause of non-union is local and only temporary, these measures will often succeed, and will turn what seemed to be a failure into a satisfactory result. In harelip and in most plastic operations, a rigid adherence to this surgery of hope and discretion is to be highly commended. Defects of the Healing Process from Excess of Action, or Inflammation. —When excess of action takes place in a wound in which repair by primary adhesion is looked for, disappointment, in all probability, will be the result; for whenever there is in a wounded part more vascular action than is required for the reparative process to perfect its work, repair is first interfered with, then stopped, and, finally, what might have been repair becomes dis-repair, and the wound, when not held together mechanically by sutures, strapping, or bandages, gapes or opens. When excess of action, or inflammation, attacks an open wound that is granulating and cicatrizing, repair likewise ceases, and becomes dis-repair; the granulations, instead of presenting a healthy, florid appearance, and secreting a bland, creamy pus, become cedematous or glazed; what has been a granulating surface becomes an ulcerating one; and the secretion from the wound changes from pus, to a thin, serous discharge, with more or less debris of tissue. The thin, red, marginal line, with its cicatrizing edge extending on to the granulating surface, presents a. more or less extended area of vascular congestion; this being, when the action is sthenic, red to an extreme degree, but when asthenic, tending towards blue, the redness shad- ing off’ in intensity towards the blue lividity of congestion. The surround- ing parts, moreover, will, under these circumstances, be tense from inflamma- tory effusion, hot, and painful, when the inflammation is acute; but when this is of a lower type, they will be cedematous, boggy, less painful because less tense, and less hot. When the local inflammation is sthenic, the constitutional disturbance will coincide with it in type, and the symptoms will be those of inflammatory fever; when the local action is of a low and asthenic form, the constitutional symptoms will partake of the same nature, and will approach those of low fever. It is to be known also, and remembered, that the acute or sthenic form of inflammation, as a rule, attacks a wound when newly made, and is generally excited by some local cause; possibly from the original injury, more probably from some imperfection in the primary dressing, and most probably