COMPLICATIONS OF ABSCESSES. 265 A patient was believed to be suffering with abscess in the liver, and, a few weeks later, the discovery of a soft, elastic, and prominent swelling, covered with thin and dusky skin, seemed to confirm the view. When the tumor was punctured, however, only blood escaped, and the disease proved at length to be carcinoma. The writer has twice seen malignant disease of the kidney, in children, punctured through the loin, in the belief that the swelling, which was soft, highly elastic, and apparently fluctuating, depended upon abscess. He also remembers the following case:— A boy, aged 10, was admitted into a hospital with what was regarded as some form of new growth in process of ossification, in the superior maxillary bone. There was considerable enlargement, with bulging both of the hard palate and the anterior wall of the bone. The affection had been in progress for almost four months, and was now, and throughout its course had been, almost completely free from pain and tenderness. In the belief that the disease was malignant, the usual incisions through the middle line of the lip, and by the side of the nose, were made, for the removal of the upper jaw. A colleague of the operator entering at this moment suggested an exploratory puncture, and, when this was made, a collection of thick and curdy pus was found occu- pying the much-enlarged, but still firm-walled, cavity of the antrum. The diagnosis between abscess and aneurism may sometimes he difficult. When suppuration has occurred, whether in lymphatic glands or otherwise, in such situations as the side of the neck or the groin, and when the sur- rounding tissues are either brawny, or matted and adherent, each pulsation of the neighboring large bloodvessel may be very distinctly communicated to the abscess. In any case of doubt, diagnosis will mainly turn on (1) the charac- ter of the pulsation, whether it is expansile and centrifugal, or merely a jerk- ing, or lifting of the tumor without alteration of its size; (2) whether pulsa- tion can be felt in all parts of the tumor; (3) whether by gently pushing the tumor this way or that, its relation to the artery is so far altered that its pulsation is materially diminished; and (4) whether when the vessel is com- pressed on the proximal side, the tumor becomes materially smaller, while when pressure is removed it enlarges again with a heaving, expansile wave. The age of the patient, the presence or absence of bruit, the condition of the arterial system as to degeneration, the existence of constitutional syphilis, the history of the case as to injury, etc.—these and similar matters all deserve con- sideration, though they must not he allowed too much weight. For though aneurism is, as a rule, met with only in adult life, man}- examples in young persons have been recorded; bruit is often absent even in well-marked aneu- rism ; while the patient’s history and other points referred to are often not a little likely to mislead. Not only, however, is there some danger of mistaking aneurism for abscess and abscess for aneurism, hut, it must be remembered that the two affections may exist together. Cases are sometimes met with in which, as in the examples mentioned below, an abscess makes its way into the trunk of a large bloodvessel. Should such an event occur, it will usually be declared by the following symptoms. The abscess-swelling undergoes a sudden and considerable increase of size, becomes tense and painful, and is found to pulsate. The amount of pulsation has been observed to differ very much in different cases. In some it has been extensive, forcible, and dis- tinctly expansile ; in others it has been faint, or scarcely perceptible ; in some, again, and these must be carefully borne in mind, pulsation has been entirely absent. Complications of Abscesses. It is not necessary here to discuss all the dangers and drawbacks that may be encountered during the progress of abscess. The occurrence of putrefac-