SYPHILIS. 448 ture with which it came in contact. With this belief, he inoculated himself on the glans and prepuce with the discharge from a gonorrhoea; the result was the development of primary sores, followed after some months by secondary manifestations from which he was not completely cured for three years. This naturally made a great impression on his mind; he appears to have considered the experiment conclusive, and not to have repeated it upon others.1 Hunter’s great name and the influence of his writings caused the doctrine of the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis to prevail extensively, and, indeed, it is only within the last score of years that this view has entirely ceased to be held.2 The treatment of gonorrhoea by means of the internal employment of mercury, even to salivation, was not uncommon in the first thirty years of this century, and it was not until 1838 that Ricord in his work on the sub- ject3 finally disproved the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis. Ricord, while clearly differentiating chancre and gonorrhoea, failed to distinguish accurately the two kinds of sore confounded under the former name, and ihoreover committed the lamentable mistake of denying the com- municability of syphilis by the secretions of its generalized lesions.4 His pupils, who founded the modern French school of syphilology, proceeded in Rieord’s footsteps and pushed the investigations of the Master still farther, disproving some of his assertions while confirming others. Bassereau, a pupil of Ricord, first put forward, in 1852, the theory that the two kinds of sore indicated two entirely distinct contagious diseases, having no relation to each other and each invariably only transmitting its like. He arrived at this conclusion by the confrontation of a large number of patients with the individuals from whom they had contracted, or to tvliom they had communicated, their disease. He found that in every case those affected with chancre followed by secondary infection, had derived their disease from per- sons similarly affected, with secondary infection. On the other hand, those affected with chancres not causing symptoms of general syphilis, had, without exception, derived their disease from persons who, like themselves, were the subjects of sores whose action was limited to the point first infected.5 Ricord had observed that the “ indurated” sore could only be inoculated with difficulty upon the individual who bore it, while sores not indu- rated could be inoculated indefinitely. Moreover, when the indurated sore was inoculated upon its bearer, it gave rise to a sore precisely similar to that caused by inoculation from a non-indurated or “ soft” sore. Therefore it was argued by Clerc,6 that it was not necessary to imagine, with Bassereau, the existence of two poisons, but that the soft sore was the product of the hard sore when conveyed to a person already syphilitic; that it had permanently lost its infecting property, so that if transmitted further to a person who had never had syphilis, it would still be transmitted as a soft sore without any power of conveying general infection. To this hybrid or degenerated sore, Clerc gave the name of “ chancroid.”7 Other observers confirmed Clerc’s asser- 1 J. R. Lane, Lectures on Syphilis, delivered at the Harveian Society, December, 1876, page 6. 2d ed. London, 1881. 3 Bumstead says that it was taught as lately as in 1860, in one of the most prominent medical schools of this country. 3 Traite des Inoculations appliquees a l’Etude des Maladies Veneriennes. Paris, 1838. 4 Although doubts as to the non-inoculability of “secondary” lesions existed in the minds of various writers previous to Ricord’s time, yet his advocacy of this view silenced or convinced his contemporaries, and it was not until the inoculation experiments of Waller, of Prague (Prager Vierteljahrsschrift, 1851), and others, that the contagiousness of these lesions was generally acknowledged. 6 Lane, op. cit. 6 Du Chancro'ide Syphilitique. Moniteur des Hopitaux, etc. Paris, 1854. 7 Lane, op. cit.