HISTORY AND NOMENCLATURE. 409 In 1857, three years after Clerc’s article was published, M. Fournier edited, for Rieord, a book1 in which the differences between the simple venereal ulcer (chancroid) and the initial lesion of syphilis (chancre) were acknowledged, and their diagnostic points of variance clearly laid down. Rieord, in other words, admitted that there were two kinds of venereal ulcer: the one local, non-constitutional; the other general, infecting the constitution, never local, but marking the beginning of syphilis. To quote his words : “ Le chancre indure, Messieurs, est done le prelude d'une diathese, et cette diathese, grosse de malheurs et d'orages, e’est la verole, la syphilis, lues venerea.” He acknowl- edged the two species, and adopted the name of chancroid. In 1858, MM. Diday and Rollet, of Lyons, published an article in the“An- nuaire de la Syphilis et des Maladies de la Beau,” entitled “ Y-a-t-il une ou deux especes du chancre ?” in which the following statements were formu- lated (1) “There are two varieties of ulcer which are transmissible by close contact, as well as by inoculation artificially. (2) “ One of these is always local; the other infects the entire system. (3) “ The local variety, which bears only a superficial resemblance to tbe constitu- tional kind, is called ‘ Chancroid the constitutional ulcer is called 4 Chancre.’ (4) “ The two ulcers, when inoculated upon persons free from syphilis, produce each its own kind—chancroid a chancroid, chancre a chancre ; but (5) “ If a syphilitic person, say a woman, have connection with a man who has a chancre, and an ulceration result, then this ulceration will assume mixed properties—it will have the softness and external characteristics of a chancroid ; but on the other hand, with this ulcer as with a true chancre, the woman can communicate to another man a chancre which will produce in him the pox.”2 Confusion worse confounded. But to still further complicate matters, M. Diday, in 1863,3 proposed other changes in name. lie wished to retain the word chancre for the initial lesion of syphilis, and to call the lesion which Clerc had christened “chancroid,” “ chancrelle,” claiming that the name chan- croid would be thus left to designate those ulcers due to the inoculation of the syphilitic virus upon persons already syphilitic. 44 Cette terminologie [chancrelle]] a de plus l’avantage de laisser le nom de chancroide disponible pour designer une lesion d’ailleurs tres rigoureusement comparable a la vario- loide sous le rapport pathogenique : je veux dire la lesion que l’on voit naitre de l’inser- tion du virus syphilitique sur un sujet qui a eu anterieurement la syphilis.”4 Fortunately for medical literature, the name never was adopted, the words chancroid and chancre being those in common use to designate the two varieties of venereal ulcer. In 1858, Rollet, of Lyons, published a work, “Dela pluralite des Maladies Veneriennes,” and in 1861 another one, “Recherches cliniques et experimen- tales sur la syphilis, le chancre simple, et la blennorrhagie, etc.,” in which, while admitting the existence of the chancroid as distinct from the initial lesion of syphilis, he claimed the existence of a third variety of ulcer, to 1 Lemons sur le Chancre, professes par le Docteur Rieord. s To make this fifth clause as clear as the words of the writer can make it, and to remove the suspicion of error in translation, I append it here in the original French: “ Mais si un sujet, une femme par example, qui etait anterieurement veroUe, a eu des rapports avec un homme porteul- de chancre, l’ulcere que celle-ci pourra contracter offrira des caractferes mixtes ; il aura du chan- chroide la mollesse et tout l’aspect ext^rieur, mais d’autre part, avec cet ulcere 1A, comme avec un vrai chancre, cette femme pourra communiquer A un autre homme un chancre qui produira ensuite en lui la verole.” 8 Histoire naturelle de la Syphilis, Paris, 1863. 4 Op. cit., p. 16.