438 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. hue, and is converted into a thick, grumous, pultaceous mass ; the undermined edges of the sore collapse, while simultaneously fresh burrowing goes on, extending the area of the wound to an alarming extent. Sometimes an attempt at cicatrization takes place at one end of the ulcer, while rapid pro- gress is being made at the other; and when this assumes a sinuous course the affection is known by the name of the “ Serpiginous Phagedcenic Chancroid.” At other times, the floor of the ulcer is overspread with a grayish flocculent membrane, not unlike the diphtheritic membrane, which is closely adherent to the sore. This goes by the name of the “Diphtheritic Chancroid.” The odor emanating from such ulcers is sickening, and the patient, exhausted by this constant suppuration and necrosis of tissue, assisted sometimes by hemorrhage as bloodvessels are eroded by ulcerative action, is often reduced to an alarm- ing condition of debility. Under appropriate treatment the phagedaena sometimes disappears, when the ulcer assumes the appearance of a simple granulating wound, and finally heals, but often at the expense of serious loss of tissue, leaving as a reminder of its presence an indelible scar. But this happy result is not always attained, for sometimes the ulcer obstinately refuses to heal under the most approved treatment, and remains in an indolent, unhealthy condition, the floor being covered with a grayish exudation, and the few granulations that spring up being flabby and easily destroyed. In this condition the ulcer will sometimes remain for a longer or shorter time, until excited into action by some acci- dental cause, when suddenly the activity of the disease will he renewed, the phagedsenic ulceration will extend with frightful rapidity, and severe loss of tissue will ensue. This renewed activity will after a while subside, and the ulcer will then relapse into its former indolent condition, until again excited into activity. These “ Chronic Chancroids” are practically incurable, and the patient finally succumbs from exhaustion, and, as I believe is often the case, from an associated phthisis. I have observed during my hospital experience many such cases, and although I am not yet prepared to say absolutely that phthisis was the cause of incurability of the ulcer, I believe that it played an important part in that direction. Mixed Chancre.—There is another condition of things occurring with the chancroid which can hardly be called a complication, but which is full of interest and worthy of mention. I allude to the so-called “mixed chancre” of Rollet, the invention of which was a happy stroke of genius to account for certain ulcers which, although undoubtedly chancroidal in the beginning of their career, in due time became converted into initial lesions, and were fol- lowed by other symptoms of syphilis. In consequence of the name, much confusion arose from the belief that a real admixture of the two kinds of virus took place, and that the secretion of this ulcer would by inoculation produce a sore which, although chancroidal at first in all respects, would become syphilitic, and be followed by the subsequent manifestations upon the skin and mucous membranes. Such, however, has been found by experience not to be invariably the case; and in those instances in which the occurrence did take place, it was due to the period at which the sore whence the matter for inoculation was taken had arrived. Thus, if the matter was used when the sore was still young, that is, within the first fourteen days of its existence, the inoculated ulcer was and remained throughout a chancroid; if, however, the matter was taken between the four- teenth and the twenty-first days, then the resulting ulcer would often start as a chancroid and end as an initial lesion; but when the matter was not taken until the sore was twenty-one or more days old, then no chancroid would appear, but the resulting inoculation would be from the beginning an initial