640 SDEGICAL DISEASES OP THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Khinoscleroma. This is a very dense cellular new growth, situated in the region of the nose. It consists of flattened or prominent tubercles of very dense structure, smooth, of a dark. brownish-red, or of the color of the skin, isolated, or forming by confluence a firm, abruptly defined mass. Deep fissures may occur in the infiltrated integument, allowing the discharge of a viscid fluid and the formation of crusts. The surrounding skin is perfectly healthy. The seat of the growth is the alae nasi, the septum, or the upper lip just at the edge or within the nostrils, from which points it spreads inwards and out- wards, causing much deformity in the shape of the nose and lip. The nos- trils, which are greatly narrowed, seem carved out of ivory, and the tip of the nose seems to be converted into a thickened plate of cartilage. The progress of the disease is slow, requiring years for its fullest development. Finally, the mucous membrane of the lip becomes involved, and the nasal openings become entirely impervious, so that the patient is obliged to breathe with open mouth. The cartilage and bone even may become affected. Mean- while, the tubercles undergo no further change, such as softening, ulceration, or carcinomatous transformation, even after many years’ existence. The cause of this strange and rare affection is unknown. It affects both sexes and persons in middle life. On cutting into the tubercles, they are found to consist in their early stages of normal connective tissue crammed with small round cells, especially in the upper layers of the corium. Later, the cell infiltration ex- tends to the deeper structures, forcing apart the fibrous framework, and pen- etrating even the cartilage. According to Kaposi, who first described and has especially studied the disease, the growth is closely allied to the small celled or granulation sarcoma. Other observers, however, regard it as a chronic inflammatory process. Left to itself, the disease progresses slowly and indefinitely, but produces no more serious results than great deformity of the nasal region, and impeded respiration. It is incapable of spontaneous involution, nor can its disappearance be effected except by its destruction, which may be accomplished either by caustics or by excision. Treatment.—The nostrils may be opened up by boring through the masses of new growth which obstruct them with a stick of nitrate of silver or caustic potassa. The pain and hemorrhage are very slight, and no inflam- mation follows the use of these agents. Such destruction, however, is always temporary. After some months, the nodules begin to grow again from their base, and gradually attain their former size. The growths which affect the outer parts, or which are embedded in the integument, may be excised, and a plastic operation performed at the same time; but even after such radical operations the disease may recur. Lupus Erythematosus. This is a chronic inflammatory process, characterized by the formation of slowly spreading patches of redness, with an elevated margin and flattened centre, the surface being generally scaly, and often terminating in superficial scar formation. The disease begins with the appearance of one or more small points, which are red and somewhat elevated, and which slowly increase in size. After a time the centre of the patch sinks to the level of, or slightly below, the surface of the surrounding skin, while the disease progresses peripherally. Thus, after it has attained or exceeded the size of a dime, it