71 THE ASEPTIC METHOD. with the solution. It is not sufficient merely to dip the tips of the fingers or even the whole hand in the solution; care must be taken that all the folds of skin, more especially about the nails, be acted on, and particularly that the solution pass up under the nails. In ordinary wounds, the 1-40 watery solu- tion of carbolic acid is sufficient, and it does not benumb the hand, as the stronger solution is apt to do. For the purification of the instruments, the 1-20 solution is employed. A large porcelain or tin trough is provided ; the instruments to be employed are laid in this, and then it is filled with 1-20 solution. In hospital practice, this is generally done from a half to one hour before the operation takes place. When toothed instruments, or instruments closing with catches, are used, it is best to separate the blades, so as to allow the lotion to get in between the teeth. It is well to immerse the whole of the instrument, for if only the point, for example the blade of a knife, is purified, the surgeon may inadvert- ently introduce the handle into the wound without washing it with the solu- tion, and he may thereby introduce septic dust. The sponges are washed in the 1-40 carbolic solution. After the opera- tion, they are rinsed in water, and then placed in a jar of 1-20 solution till required again; then the 1-20 solution is squeezed out, and the sponge, when washed in the 1-40 lotion, is ready for use. These sponges may be used for a long time, till, in fact, they wear out. In some cases they get clogged with fibrine. To get rid of this, the sponge is placed in a trough containing water, and left for some days. The fibrine putrefies, and can then be washed out readily. The sponge is then placed in a jar containing the 1-20 carbolic lotion, and is ready for use when required. The purification of the air is effected by means of a spray of carbolic acid. The spray is produced by driving a rapid current of air through the narrow orifice of a horizontal tube, which is placed over the orifice of a more or less vertical one. The air rushing over the opening in the vertical tube, sucks the air out of that, and, if the lower end dips into a fluid, the fluid is sucked up and expelled from the narrow orifice in the form of finely divided particles, or spray (Fig. 216). At present, steam sprays are employed. They consist Fig. 216. Fig. 217. Diagram to show the principle of spray producers. Ordinary steam spray producer as at present employed by Mr. Lister. of three parts: a boiler, containing water; a lamp, placed beneath this boiler; and a retort, containing carbolic lotion. The steam generated in the boiler passes along a horizontal tube, sucks up the lotion through a vertical tube connected with the retort, and, mixing with it, forms the spray (Fig. 217). The fluid in the retort is the 1-20 watery solution of carbolic acid, and this,