641 LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS. presents a smooth and shining, or scaly, depressed, central portion, separated from the surrounding healthy integument by an annular, elevated border, occupied by the distended or plugged openings of sebaceous glands. This disease may progress thus for many months or yeai-s from a single centre, and may cover large areas of skin; or several patches may coalesce and form a variety of shapes, all sharply defined by the serpiginous border. Its seat is chiefly the central parts of the face, especially the nose and adjoining por- tions of the cheeks, but it may affect the outlying parts as well, the lips, ears, scalp, fingers and toes, etc. Upon the scalp, it produces bald patches, which are red and shining, and circumscribed by a narrow, elevated border, covered with scales. The course of the disease is generally very slow, a single patch requiring generally several years to reach its maximum development, and terminating, it may be spontaneously, in a flattening down of its border, and the permanent establishment of a thin, superficial scar. The successive de- velopment of such areas of disease may prolong the course of the affection over many years. Prof. Kaposi has described also an acute, disseminated variety of this dis- ease, which may simultaneously affect a large portion of the body, and may be accompanied by grave symptoms, such as painful subcutaneous nodules and swelling of glands, oedematous enlargements of the joints, and deep-seated pains in the bones, with recurrent, erysipelatous and typhoidal forms of fever, which may prove fatal. Such cases are very rare. Commonly, the disease may exist for years confined to a single locality, without complications and without any effect upon the general condition of the patient, its only serious results being the deformity to which it gives rise. The anatomical changes of Lupus erythematosus may show themselves first in any portion of the cutaneous tissues—in the upper layers of the corium and about the sebaceous glands, or in the deeper portions about the sweat- glands—and may extend to all the structures of the skin. These changes consist in collections of small round cells, with the ordinary manifestations of an inflammatory process ; swelling of the bloodvessels ; serous exudation, distending the connective-tissue spaces and the papillae; and cell prolifera- tion, producing thickening and redness of the skin, and seborrhoea. The pro- cess of involution is characterized by fatty degeneration of the cell elements, by atrophy of the vessels and the glandular structures, and by shrinking of the connective tissue; in other words, by the formation of cicatricial tissue. Very little is known of the etiology of the disease. It generally affects per- sons in middle life, and is very rare in childhood. It is more common in women than in men. It is sometimes a sequel of Seborrhoea congestiva. Treatment.—Lupus erythematosus is a most unmanageable affection. In- ternally, those remedies only are of service which may be demanded by the general condition of the patient at the time. By far the most serviceable is cod-liver oil, if given for long periods. Externally, the severer forms of caustics, such as are demanded in Lupus vulgaris, are not called for. Among the most valuable applications are the strong alkalies, German soap and its solutions, carbolic acid, acetic acid, sulphur, tar, iodine, mercurial plaster, and chrysophanic and pyrogallic acids. All of these will work effectually, even rapidly, at times, and again, at other times, they will all fail in any measure to control the disease. It is often necessary, therefore, to try many remedies in a single case. Perhaps the most valuable of those above named, are the following:— Soaps, used alone or in connection with the others. They should he rubbed thoroughly into the affected parts, on a bit of flannel rag, and should be sub- sequently rubbed to a lather with water, and washed off. The excoriations VOL. II.—41