DIABETIC AND DIPHTHERITIC GANGRENE. 305 degree—a fact of common occurrence, and that when gangrene commences in one, the constitutional depression it produces is the determining cause of gan- grene in the other. But this form of symmetrical gangrene may also be the result of embolism of the aorta at the iliac bifurcation, a cause which can be easily appreciated. There is, however, another form of the disease, not so easily understood, which is represented in Elate A". Fig. 1. The subject of this illustration became exceedingly ill with typhoid fever. At the point of ex- treme depression, sloughs of the skin began to appear, as indicated in the painting. jSo other cause than the fever could be assigned for their occurrence. I have known gangrenous spots to appear on the ball of the foot and upon the great toe, in a large' man who consumed a great quantity of beer. The sloughs separated when he took the recumbent posture, and the parts healed perfectly. After a few days, however, the same condition appeared upon the ball of the other foot and great toe, and upon two toes adjoining. The sloughs upon the two feet were almost identical in form and size. The well-known condition of symmetrical disease, as manifested in rheumatism and eruptions, finds no exception in gangrene, though of rare occurrence. It is probably due to the differentiation of tissue so conspicuous in the skin and mucous membrane. Local gangrene, common enough in typhoid fever, was, in the case above mentioned, obviously determined as to its position by the differentiation of tissue in the skin. Diabetic GIangrene. Diabetes is a condition which produces such a depravation of the fluids as to interfere with the nutrition of the cell. When there is any depressing local cause, such as a traumatic one, the gangrenous process will sometimes arise. But the most common manifestation of this process is to he found in the production of carbuncles and boils. We can only offer for its relief the special treatment of diabetes, combined with the local treatment of moist gangrene. Diphtheritic Gangrene. Diphtheria presents itself readily upon abraded surfaces, as well as upon the mucous membranes, though not so readily in its inception. But after the operation of tracheotomy, practised for its relief, the exudates extend over the surface of the wound as well as upon the mucous membrane. In conse- quence of a certain resemblance, diphtheritic has been confounded with hospital gangrene, and there is undoubtedly a similarity in the appearance of the exudate. But the theory of their identity receives its refutation from the fact, that the prevalence of diphtheria does not result in the gangrene of sores in the neighborhood of diphtheritic subjects, and that, on the other hand, the existence of hospital gangrene does not produce diphtheria. The occasional concurrence of the two conditions is exceptional. These two forms of gan- grene are like each other in that, in both, the exudate decomposes with a fetid odor; but the process of sloughing is slower in diphtheria, though the blood invasiou is quite as rapid. Cause of Diphtheritic Gangrene.—The question whether microscopic fungi are a cause of gangrene, and especially of the diphtheritic form, has received a great deal of study, and never so much as quite recently. The labors of Formad, Sternberg, Satterthwaite, Curtis, and others in this country, not to mention the host of European observers who commenced this inquiry fifteen years ago, point with great clearness to the existence of micrococci as vol. ii.—20