SYMPTOMS AND COMPLICATIONS OF THIRD STAGE. 343 thighs, and even the thoracic region, and is almost unheafahle. There are usually more or less febrile disturbance, and great mental anxiety and depres- sion. Under proper treatment, the acute inflammatory symptoms subside by resolution in a few days, but the enlargement disappears very gradually, a small portion of the globus minor often remaining perceptibly indurated throughout life. In neglected cases, the testicle proper becomes involved, which may be known by an increase in the size and density of the tumor, by the uniform diffusion of the swelling, which can no longer be outlined at the hack of the scrotum, by the unusual tenderness on pressure, .and by the per- sistence of the pain, nausea, etc., in spite of such treatment as usually gives relief.1 In a still smaller number of cases, suppuration occurs in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and sometimes involves a large portion of the scrotum. These terminations of epididymitis result, as a rule, from improper treatment, or are found in the broken-down and intemperate subjects of hospital or dispen- sary practice. Of the numerous sequel* said to follow swelled testicle, I have seen very few instances. A lingering tenderness in the region of the epi- didymis is quite common, but true neuralgia of the testicle, with its agonizing pain, must be very rare, as I have never met with a single instance of this condition to which epididymitis seemed to have any definite causative rela- tion. It is' unquestionable that persistent induration of the globus minor, which consists of a single tube for the passage of semen, may interfere with or entirely prevent the exercise of its function, and that if both testicles have been involved, sterility more or less permanent may result. There may be, however, and usually are, all the indications of virility ; there is no diminu- tion in desire, nor in ability to perform the sexual act, which is accompanied by emission of fluid derived chiefly from the prostate and the seminal vesi- cles, and which is attended by the customary amount of pleasure. In other words, the patient, though sterile by reason of the absence of spermatozoa from the fluid which he emits, is not by any means impotent. Time and suitable remedies will often remove this condition, at least to a degree which permits of the reappearance of small numbers of spermatozoa in the semen, and consequently restores to the patient his ability to beget children. The prognosis in this respect should be guarded.2 That the left testicle is affected twice as often as the right, is usually attributed to the fact that as a rule it hangs lower, and thus receives less support from the scrotum. It is more probably, however, the result of the position of the left spermatic vein behind the sigmoid flexure, where it is especially subject to obstruction by pressure, and also of its indirect com- munication with the vena cava through the renal vein, which it enters at a right angle, the right spermatic vein emptying into the cava at an acute angle. The left spermatic vein is also unprovided with a valve at the point of entrance into the renal vein. These causes are sufficient to produce local congestion, a powerful predisposing cause of inflammatory attacks. As a result of pressure on the efferent vessels by inflammatory products, or as a consequence of extension of the inflammatory action itself, acute hydrocele may and often does complicate epididymitis, adding to the size of the swollen 1 Sigmund (quoted by Hill) found that, in 1342 cases, the epididymis was alone affected in 61; the epididymis and cord in 108 ; the epididymis and tunica vaginalis in 856 ; and all three parts in 317. Of Dron’s 726 cases, the body of the testis was affected in only ten ; and of Hardy’s 226 cases, the inflammation attacked the testis proper in but nine. 2 Gosselin, Curling, Liegois, Godard and Terrillon, Hill, Bumstead, Lebert, and others all coin- cide in the belief that double epididymitis is, in the great majority of cases, followed by ster- ility, or the absence of spermatozoa from the semen, and that there is very little probability of entire recovery. In 117 cases of this character, which I have been able to collect from various sources, only thirteen were recorded as experiencing any improvement from treatment.