SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF HEREDITARY SYPHILIS. 559 Of late years our knowledge of the subject of hereditary syphilis has been much enlarged, and various affections occurring in late infancy and in child- hood, formerly unclassified, are now included under this head. In some reported cases, it appears that these late 'lesions have not been preceded by any earlier symptoms, but the difficulty in obtaining facts in regard to such points can easily he understood. It is certain, however, that in many of these cases good results have been obtained by antisyphilitic treatment. The mortality of syphilitic children is very great, fully one-third failing to reach maturity. Abortion resulting from the death of the fcetus usually occurs about the sixth month, while that caused by infection of the mother during pregnancy takes place somewhat later. An aborted foetus is usually in a macerated condition, the skin being easily detached, and the surface having a livid, purple color, while various lesions will be found in some of the viscera. The integument may show nothing characteristic, or large bullfe may be found *n the soles and palms.1 (Bumstead and Taylor.) Syphilitic children generally present a healthy appearance at birth, and for a week or two all seems to go well. Then symptoms of debility and decreased vitality show themselves, the infant begins to emaciate, and grows wizened and aged in appearance. Catarrh of the nasal passages—•“ the snuftles ”—shows itself, interfering with respiration, and thus sometimes itself alone being the cause of death. The skin becomes yellow, loose, and wrinkled. It is drawn tight over the bones of the face, which becomes sallow and earthy, with promi- nent eyes and a peculiar senile expression, the infant presenting the appear- ance of decrepit old age. Usually the symptoms of failure of nutrition, and of disease, occur at an earlier date if the affection is severe. How and then, however, excessive emaciation is not observed even when the syphilitic poison has affected the system to a marked degree, just as we see adults who go through a course of syphilis in its various manifestations without appearing to suffer thereby in general health. Skin Manifestations in Hereditary Syphilis.—The syphilitic eruptions of infants are in all respects the same as those of adults, excepting in so far as their appearance is altered by the peculiarities of structure of the infantile integument. The erythematous syphiloderm is that which is earliest and most frequently observed. It generally makes its appearance about the third week of life, often accompanied by coryza, and showing itself first on the abdomen in the form of minute, round or oval, pink macules. It spreads rapidly over the sur- face of the body and limbs, and the patches grow larger and darker, until they may be half an inch in diameter, slightly or not at all elevated above the surface, coppery red in color, and no longer, as at first, disappearing under pressure. There is usually little or no scaliness, excepting upon the hands and feet, where slight desquamation may be present, especially if the eruption is well marked. This eruption is very liable to be confounded with the simple erythematous rashes of early infancy. The most important diagnostic points are the ten- dency to infiltration, and the formation of papules in places where the skin comes together in folds, as about the neck, and also especially in the region of the genitalia and nates.2 In addition, the tendency to scaliness about the palms, soles, and occasionally the nates, is more or less characteristic. Occasionally this eruption is extremely difficult to distinguish from erythe- * See Plate XIV. Fig. 2. 2 Plate XIV. Fig. 1 gives a fair representation of this form of eruption running into the papular variety.