TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES FROM BURNS. 247 taken into the mouth, or swallowed, and, if not promptly treated, cause very rapid and extensive destruction and speedy death. The carbonates of sodium, potassium, calcium, or magnesium are the antidotes, and should be given liberally ; on account of the violent effervescence caused by the decomposition of the alkalies, they should be used with great caution, for fear of serious sudden distension or laceration of the injured tissues. Care should he taken, especially when the acid ingested has been the sulphuric, not to flood the stomach with water, which, though it dilutes the acid, also suddenly raises, the temperature. In any case, after the administration of neutralizing or decomposing antidotes, the stomach-pump should be used, with great care, for fear of causing rupture of the stomach ; large draughts of milk may be used, and vomiting encouraged, but violent retching should not be permitted. The caustic alkalies are soda, potassa, ammonia, and quicklime. These act by suddenly abstracting moisture from the tissues with which they are brought into contact, and they cause a burn, if in a state of concentration, such exactly as would be produced by the contact of heat or strong acids. The domestic manufacture of soap brings caustic potassa and soda into many dwellings under the name of “ concentrated lye,” and frequent casualties are the result. A recent burn of the surface from these agents should be treated by the application of vinegar, or any other mild acid, which neutralizes the alkali, forming a salt which is non-irritating; a burn of the eye should be treated in the same manner, care being taken to dilute the acid to a proper degree. If vinegar be not at hand, any of the fixed oils or fats would be an appropriate application, their fatty acids combining with the alkali to form a soap. Failing this, if the caustic be soda, potassa, or ammonia, plenty of water should be used so as to dilute the caustic, which it does without causing any increase of heat; but in the case of quicklime, vinegar should be relied on, as water, by causing the lime to slake, would act as fuel. Caustic potassa in small rods or sticks is used for making local applications to the fauces or throat, and occasionally a piece of the caustic, escaping from the holder, is swallowed. In such a case a mild acid, diluted with plenty of water, should be given, and the stomach well washed out. Occasionally a piece of nitrate of silver is dropped down a patient’s throat. The proper antidote is chloride of sodium—common salt'—which forms, with the lunar caustic, an almost completely insoluble chloride of silver. Carbolic acid causes local destruction of the tissues with which it is brought into con- tact, and is a rapidly fatal poison when ingested. It shares with creasote the property of coagulating albumen, which fact indicates the proper antidote, found in almost every house, the white of egg. There is nothing peculiar about a local burn of the surface caused by this agent, except that, as it is a local anaesthetic, its burns, after a few minutes, cease to be painful; it also coagulates the albumen of the integument, causing a white mark where it drops. Burns of the surface from phosphorus are sometimes seen, but demand no special antidotal applications, as this agent burns until it is entirely con- sumed, generally making quite a deep injury. When it has been swallowed, the most rational antidote is the sulphate of copper, which forms with it a very insoluble phosphide; but death in most cases would ensue before this chemical change could he brought about. « Treatment of Deformities from Burns. Within the past few years, the advance in conservative surgery has done much towards diminishing the number of cases of deformity incident to burns and scalds, which in former times so commonly occurred. Large ulcer- ated surfaces are not permitted now to heal up simply through the gradual