LIGHTNING STROKE. 249 ancl twenty years, and of this number, 2252 were instantly killed; while in the United States, during the year 1870 alone, 202 deaths from lightning stroke were recorded. Effects of Lightning Stroke.—The effects of lightning stroke are most interesting, curious, and appalling. When a person is not killed outright, as so often happens, they are direct and remote ; the general symptoms observed are usually those of shock; there is often unconsciousness—sometimes coma -—lasting from a few minutes to hours or even days ; drowsiness may continue for a variable period ; the pupils are often contracted, and the conjunctiva} congested; partial or complete loss of sight or hearing, or both, associated sometimes with impairment of the other special senses, is often observed; paralysis of the upper or lower extremities may be more or less complete; anaesthesia of a part, or paralysis of sensation, not infrequently occurs. These palsies may continue for a varialble period, but in time recovery usually takes place. Local Effects.—The tissues may be burned superficially or deeply; the bones may be fractured—the fractures may be compound or even comminuted; limbs or portions of the extremities are occasionally torn entirely off. Light- ning stroke often takes the most peculiar course upon the surface of the body; in some instances, its tracks have a fancied resemblance to the branches of a tree, the main stem from which the branches lead off arising at any portion of the body ; these areas are often slightly raised, and the skin moderately cecle- matous, presenting a marked scarlet tint. These lightning traces gradually taper off’ until the branches are barely observable, being not larger than the merest scratch of a pin; they may diverge in all directions from the place first apparently struck. Causes of Death after Lightning Stroke.—Wnen death is more or less delayed, or occurs some time after a lightning stroke, the fatal result is either from shock, cerebral effusion, or from other injuries, which, from their grav- ity, lead on to a fatal termination. Post-mortem examinations have revealed hemorrhagic effusions in the various cavities, and under the membranes of the brain, as well as ruptures of the several internal organs; but not infre- quently there are no marks of either external or internal violence; the blood after death is said to remain fluid. An interesting case of lightning stroke, which was brought into the Penn- sylvania Hospital within a comparatively recent period, presented some un- usual points of interest:— C. C., aged 25, a seaman, was in Delaware Bay, in a fishing sloop, when a squall arose, accompanied by rain, thunder, and lightning. During the progress of the storm, the patient, whose clothing was very wet, was standing upon deck in his bare feet, having hold with his right hand of the wooden rings of the mainsail. The lightning struck the mast, which it splintered, and passed from it to him. He was momentarily stunned. The course which the lightning had taken along the surface of his body was clearly shown by a distinct tract of burned skin from the right axilla to the left foot. His right sleeve was rolled up to the shoulder at the time, and, though the hand was contused, there was no mark upon the arm. The external manifestations began in the right axilla, from which the hair was singed, and from this point a linear burn of the second degree extended down the side to the groin, where it crossed the pubes, scorch- ing the hair, and extended down the inner side of the left thigh and leg to the ankle. The left foot was swollen and tender, but there were no marks upon it. The patient was brought to the hospital soon after the injury; the wounds were dressed with cosmo- line ; there were no constitutional symptoms, nor palsies, and he was discharged cured on the eleventh day.