SYPHILIS. 562 neonatorum”) have given rise to much discussion, and it was at one time con- sidered that all such eruptions were of a syphilitic character. A true pem- phigus neonatorum is now admitted, although this is a very rare disease.1 It commonly occurs at a later date than the syphilitic bullar eruptions. The latter are most usually found upon the palms and soles (see Plate XIV. Fig. 2). The skin shows patches of a violet color; in a short time small confluent vesicles make their appearance upon these spots, and then coalesce and grow larger until the fully formed hullse show themselves, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, with ay ellowisli-green, opalescent color, and purulent contents. Occasionally the lesions are brownish or even hemorrhagic. The areol® are large, dark, and violaceous. Within twenty-four or thirty-six hours the bull® break or dry up, leaving whitish crusts covering shallow ulcers. The eruption is of grave import, and rapid cachexia with general enfeeble- ment leads rapidly to a fatal termination. The bullar syphiloderm is to be differentiated from the pemphigoid eruption by its earlier appearance, by its usually more serious character, and by the concomitant symptoms and his- tory. Sometimes impetigo contagiosa of young infants is mistaken for the bullar syphiloderm, but this eruption is of trifling import, its early appear- ance is different, and the crust when removed shows only a slight erosion. Moreover, the places of election of impetigo contagiosa are the face and mouth, the backs of the fingers and hands, and less frequently the wrists; the feet usually escape. Affections of the Mucous Membranes.—One of the earliest symptoms of hereditary syphilis commonly observed is coryza or “snuffles,” due to struc- tural changes in the mucous membrane of the nasal passages, at first of an erythematous, and later of an ulcerative character. This may be slight, or it may be so severe as to interfere with respiration, particularly during sleep and nursing. At first serous, the discharge soon becomes purulent, and some- times bloody and very offensive, excoriates the angles of the nasal opening, becomes inspissated, and plugs up the nasal passages. Sometimes the dis- ease penetrates to the bony structures, and produces necrosis. Mucous patches of the mouth in infantile hereditary syphilis do not pre- sent the typical opaline appearance seen in the adult. The lesions tend to coalesce and ulcerate, and, when occurring at the angles of the mouth in connection with moist papules of the outer surface, deep fissures sometimes supervene. The serous secretion of mucous patches is highly contagious, and their early recognition is a matter of the utmost moment in order to prevent the risk of contamination. The infant must not be permitted to nurse at any breast but that of its mother, and must be placed in a rigid quarantine; all kissing and fondling, the use of utensils employed by others, etc., must be guarded against. The infection of the nurse by a child having mucous patches of the mouth is particularly liable to occur in hospitals, lying-in asylums, and the like.2 The mucous patches of hereditary syphilis are to be distinguished from the lesions of simple stomatitis, by the fact that in the latter the inflamma- tion is generally more diffuse, the whole tongue in particular being intensely affected, and often covered with vesicles, which are not seen in the syphilitic affection. The tendency to the development of mucous patches at the corner ’ A very good description of the various non-sypliilitic hullar eruptions of the skin in infants, generally classed as pemphigus, will be found in an article by Gustav Behrend, of Berlin. Bei- trag zur Lelire von Pemphigus. Vierteljahrsschr. f. Derm. u. Syph. Jahrg. vi. 1869, S. 191. 2 See an important paper by Dr. It. W. Taylor, The Dangers of the Transmission of Syphilis between Nursing Children and Nurses in Infant Asylums and in Private Practice. (Am. Jour. Obstet., Nov. 1878.) Also'Fournier, Nourrices et Nourrissons Sypliilitiques. Paris, 1878.