(407 ) VENEREAL DISEASES: THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. BY F. R. STURGIS, M.D. PROFESSOR OF VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK (MEDICAL DEPARTMENT), VISITING SURGEON TO THE THIRD VENEREAL DIVISION OF CHARITY HOSPITAL, BLACKWELL’S ISLAND, ETC., NEW YORK. Synonyms. French: Chancro'ide; German: Schanker. It was supposed, upon the acceptance of Bassereau’s law of the difference in nature between the local venereal ulcer and the initial lesion of syphilis, and upon the consequent formation (although not by him) of the two schools of dualists and unicists, that all further doubts as to the characters of these two diseases had been entirely set at rest; but such would seem to he far from true. Later experiments with pus taken from various sources, throw serious question upon what had heretofore been considered as one of the strongest diagnostic points of the simple venereal ulcer, that is the capacity for auto- inoculation ; and the existence of a virus for this form of venereal ulcer is at the present day, if not openly denied, at least openly doubted. To quote the words of a late authority upon this subject, one who was the first in this country to teach the doctrine of dualism, and the difference in the virus of chancroid and syphilis :— “ The chancroid . . . does not depend upon a specific virus of its own, in- capable of being generated de novo. ... If the view here advocated be the correct one, it suggests an interesting analogy with the history of our belief as regards the nature of gonorrhoea, an affection which in the last century was regarded as due to the syphilitic virus. Ricord finally adduced convincing proof that it had nothing to do with syphilis. It was afterwards supposed to depend upon a virus of its own—the gonorrhoeal virus. We now know that it may be caused by any simple irritant, but more especially by the pus from the urethral and other inflamed mucous membranes, whether originating or not in contagion. Such as the history of gonorrhoea has been, so we predict the history of the chancroid will be.”1 In view of such decided changes in opinion, I propose in this article to trace out the causes which have led to them, and, as far as is possible, to lay before my readers the views at present held by syphilographers upon this subject. 1 Bumstead and Taylor, Pathology and Treatment of Venereal Diseases. Fourth Edition. Philadelphia, 1879.