715 BURSA OF THE ISCHIOFEMORAL REGION. resulting sinuses, necrosis, etc., must be treated on general principles, always bearing in mind the proximity of the lap-capsule, and the liability of the joint to become involved. Bursa of the Gluteus Maximus.-—The importance of recognizing disease located in this bursa will become clear when its affections are described. It is probable that caries of the trochanter sometimes arises from suppuration of this bursa.1 The patient will probably refer the disease to a severe blow received some time previously over the trochanter major, which produced temporary pain and lameness, and was followed by low inflammation, wasting of the thigh, and flattening of the buttock. When seen by the surgeon, the thigh is usually adducted2 and flexed upon the pelvis, which follows the motions impressed on the femur. In certain cases there is a decided simulation of lengthening of the limb, and the trochanter is prominent, and seemingly lower than on the healthy side. Extension or rotation inwards, which puts the gluteal muscles on the stretch, immediately causes pain, not in the joint, but over the trochanter and upper part of the thigh. Pain in the joint can neither be elicited by forc- ing its surfaces together by pressure on the trochanter, nor by the upward force imparted to the femoral head by blows, etc., upon the knee, although local pain of varying violence may be complained of over the trochanter when this is pressed upon. Suppuration occurs slowly, often forming large accumu- lations, which finally burst, usually with marked amelioration of all the symp- toms. In some cases all the movements of the joint now become free and painless, and the patient rapidly and permanently recovers. In others, either a slow and tedious recovery takes place, or, a sinus resulting, the case closely simulates one of hip-disease. Diagnosis.—Although a careful consideration of the above-named character- istics of the disease should always lead to a correct opinion, yet, as such cases have been mistaken by experienced surgeons for morbus coxarius, the symp- toms already given may be recapitulated, with some additional points. There is always a history of a violent blow upon the trochanter, which is usually rapidly followed by swelling over the injured region. There is no pain in the hip itself, nor any referred pain in the knee. Although of necessity pressure behind the trochanter gives pain, pressure applied in the groin reveals no tenderness, and under an anaesthetic the joint movements are found to be perfectly free and natural. Exploration of the sinuses, when such exist, will detect no bare bone, and will show that the disease is confined to the bursa. The rapid recovery after the pus is evacuated, with the restoration of the joint movements, is in marked contradistinction to what is seen where suppuration occurs in the hip-joint itself. Mr. Teale3 hints that certain of the reported cases of rapid recovery, after opening of supposed psoas abscesses, may have been unrecognized cases of disease of the trochanteric bursa. Treatment.—If the collection is large, aspiration or antiseptic incision should be practised. Should sinuses result, they must be dilated, when the introduction of the finger will readily detect the cause of the slow healing, viz., the constriction and pressure upon the diseased parts by the flat tendon of the gluteus maximus, which must be freely divided transversely. The lining false membrane, etc., should then be broken up by the finger, and the case treated on general principles.4 Ischial Bursa;.—Any of those mentioned may become involved. The disease occurs most frequently in persons whose occupations demand a sitting 1 T. P. Teale, Lancet, 1870. 2 Macnab, Lancet, Nov. 12, 1870. 3 Loc. cit. 4 T. P. Teale, loc. cit.