422 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. because in the table of my own eases many patients who are recorded under the heading of “ affected with one,” evidently had been, from the histories, the bearers of multiple lesions at the commencement of their cases, coalescence •having converted their multiple sores into single large ulcers, when, as they presented only single lesions on their entrance into the hospital, they were so recorded. With the initial lesion of syphilis this is different. Here the tables show the proportion of multiple ulcers to the whole number of cases to be only a little more than twenty-three per cent., or, if it be expressed in numbers, the initial lesion is multiple 116 times, and single 386 times, in 602 cases. Hence, although not invariably, it may be generally assumed that multi- plicity of lesions is the characteristic of the simple venereal ulcer as contrasted with the initial lesion of syphilis, and especially is this the case when the multiplicity occurs subsequent to and not at the time of coitus. The Simple Venereal Ulcer has no Period of Incubation.—In the simple venereal ulcer there is another peculiarity which serves to distinguish it from the initial lesion of syphilis. When the pus comes in contact with mucous membranes or cuticle denuded of their epithelium, its action is produced at once—often within twenty-four hours after the matter has been deposited upon the tissues. Only exceptionally is its action delayed beyond the first seven or eight days after coitus, and then only if the matter is con- cealed in a follicle, or in a fold of the skin, which, from offering greater resistance to the action of the pus, delays the appearance of the ulceration. Hence we are accustomed to speak of this ulcer as being devoid of any period of incubation. Its action is immediate, subject only to the delay offered by the mechanical resistance of the tissues. If now we examine the following tables we will see that in 381 cases, in which we have accurate information as to the time of its appearance, the simple venereal ulcer appeared within the first eight days in 310, and only in 71 cases subsequent to that time, and these instances of prolonged incubation are probably explicable upon the ground that the patients themselves were at fault as to dates1—inasmuch as in several cases the ulcer had evidently been of long duration at the time when the patient stated he had first seen it—or else that the pus had been deposited upon some tissue which resisted its action for a length of time. At any rate, it is a significant fact that 310 of the 381 cases occurred within the first eight days after coitus. Time of Appearance of Simple Venereal Ulcer. Table XL (Millet, op. cit., p. 54.) The simple chancre appeared from abrasion during coitus in . .10 cases. It was seen from one to three days after coitus in . . . . . 52 “ From four to six days after coitus in . . . . . . . . 48 “ In eight days “ “ • • • • • • . 53 “ “ fifteen days “ “ • • • • • • . 3 “ “ twenty days “ 5 “ “ forty-five days “ “ • . • • • • • • 1 case. “ sixty days “ “ . . . . • • • . 1 “ Dates are wanting in . . . . . . . . . • .28 cases. Total 201 “ 1 In 48 out of 429 cases the data are so defective as to be of no value. See Tables XI. and XIII.