431 ORIGIN OF THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. virus. Let us see if the same thing can be done with the secretion of syphi- lis, and under what conditions success is obtained. In 1854, M. Maratray (de FTevers) published a case1 which is very interest- ing .and instructive. “ During September, 1852, one of my friends, who was syphilitic at the time, con- sulted me as to the nature of an ulceration situated upon the fraenum, dependent, so he said, upon a coitus dating twelve days back. At a glance I recognized a specific ulce- ration with a tendency to become phagedenic. He informed me that another young man who upon the same day had had connection with the same woman, was suffering with a less painful and less extensive ulceration. Upon examination of this young man, I recognized upon him an indurated chancre accompanied with a perfectly well charac- terized inguinal adenitis, one of the most certain signs of constitutional infection. I asked if it were possible to see the presumed cause of the trouble. Frightened by the word “pox” she consented to an examination. My attention was attracted at first to the fourchette, the seat by predilection of chancres in the woman, and this the more on account of the strange coincidence of the ulcer of the fraenum in the man. I at once discovered a specific ulceration in process of repair ; palpation showed a hard, carti- laginous, elastic nodule, which by compression blanched the neighboring tissues. All the characteristics of the indurated chancre were present ; there was no possibility of mistake ; the inguinal ganglia, although somewhat difficult to recognize, were yet per- ceptible by comparison with those of the unaffected side. In spite of great care, fur- ther research failed to reveal in any portion of this woman’s genitals, whether in the vagina or the neck of the uterus, any reason for the existence of the phagedaenic chan- cre. As the good hygienic conditions under which the first patient was placed com- pensated somewhat for the debilitating influence of the syphilis, a local dressing of aro- matic wine led to a pretty prompt cure. As to the two indurated chancres, as already stated, cicatrization had commenced, and went on to completion. I learnt subsequently that secondary symptoms appeared in the man and in the woman notwithstanding a mercurial treatment of some duration.” This case was followed, in 1856, by the two following, mentioned by Ricord and quoted by Fournier.2 Case I One of my old patients, whom I had treated several months during my ser- vice in 1843 for an indurated chancre, followed by constitutional manifestations—rose- ola, mucous patches of the mouth, posterior cervical adenitis, alopecia, etc.—had con- nection with a woman of the town during May, 1856. It was at least two months before this time since the patient had seen another woman. Some days after this con- nection, two chancres appeared upon the prepuce, one upon the cutaneous, the other upon the mucous, surface. The patient at first pursued no treatment. When I exam- ined him, the chancres were of ten days’ duration, the size of a ten-cent piece, without any induration of the base—indeed, they were quite supple and exempt from inflam- mation. The glands of the left groin were slightly swollen and painful. The diagnosis was beyond question. I had to deal with simple chancres, at least as far as their external characters were concerndll. They healed up, without complications, under simple dressings of aromatic wine. The adenitis rapidly disappeared. No internal treatment was used, but the patient, kept under careful observation, has not presented any new symptom of syphilis. While this patient was being treated at the Midi, my interne looked up and found the woman who was pointed out as the source of the man’s disease. What do you suppose was found ? A typical indurated chancre of the labium majus, with an enormous ehondroid induration. This chancre, according to the patient, had existed for several weeks. It was accompanied by a well-marked adenitis, and was followed by subsequent constitutional manifestations. Case II L., a girl seventeen years of age, was infected in June, 1856, with an indurated chancre, accompanied by an inguinal adenitis, in which the glands were mul- tiple, hard, and indolent. She followed a mercurial treatment for only a few weeks’ time. In September, a confluent roseola covered her body, the hair began to come out, and a double cervical adenitis showed itself. There could be no question as to the dis- 1 Op. cit., p. 49 et seq. 2 Recherches sur la Contagion du Chancre.