699 TUMORS OF BURSTS. cellular tissue elsewhere, will be all that is usually necessary. Should acute inflammation or phlegmonous erysipelas supervene, cold evaporating lotions, irrigations with weak carbolized water, poultices,or the bran box—which gives equable support and compression, while at the same time it absorbs the dis- charges—are indicated, with such incisions as will insure free drainage.1 The remarks just made about contusions followed by suppuration of the deep-seated bursae, are equally applicable to a similar condition the result of a wound. If, as is not uncommon, the injured bursa communicates with a joint, we practically have to deal with a wounded articulation. In a wound of a deep-seated bursa near a joint, the diagnosis between a simple bursal wound and one of the articulation will require care, since in both there will be an escape of synovia. If the wound cannot be explored by the finger, our only guides are the direction and depth of the wound, and the knowledge that there is a bursa normally present in its track. Deciding that only the bursa is involved, the next important point to determine is whether it communicates or not with the articulation. This can only be determined by an accurate knowledge of the normal anatomy of the part, combined with a recognition of the fact that, the older the patient,the greater is thelikelihood of thebursa opening into the joint. I would most earnestly insist that, in any event, it is better to err on the side of prudence and treat the case as if dealing with an injured articulation, since a deep-seated peri-arthritic suppuration often ends in intra-articular trouble. Treatment.—Perfect rest, restricted diet at first, efficient drainage, anti- septic dressings, cold, irrigation—in fact, anything and everything calculated to favor rapid healing—should be resorted to. Later in the case, if pus forms, free incisions, with sustaining remedies and appropriate diet, must be pre- scribed. Lacerated and Contused Wounds of Burs^:.—These usually involve the more superficially seated sacs, and often give rise to the most acute and com- plicated forms of bursitis. Thus, very commonly, a contused wound over the olecranon, opening the bursa, results in a cellulitis which involves, perhaps, the whole upper extremity, including the axilla, and is accompanied with great pain and marked constitutional disturbance, which in old or elderly patients may prove fatal. Of course, there are all grades of the disease, from that just described to a simple local inflammation. One peculiarity of all wounds and injuries of burs* is, that they are slow at first to take on inflammatory action. All cases do not exhibit this peculiarity, but in most a distinct inter- val of from twelve to thirty-six hours—perhaps of forty-eight hours—elapses, when a most acute inflammation rapidly arises. Treatment.—The treatment is the same that has been already laid down for contusions and incised or punctured wounds of burs*. Tumors of Bursts. Tumors of burs* are rare. Mr. Erichsen says that he has met with three or four cases where malignant growths have rapidly appeared in the cicatrices left after the removal of bursal tumors, but justly hints that these may only have been due to the localization of cancer, by the irritation of a previous operation in a patient predisposed to this disease.2 Simon has also reported3 a case of fibro-cartilaginous tumor, which sprang from the bottom of a pre-patel- 1 See also page 693, for general treatment of acute bursitis. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, vol. xv. 1857, pp. 476 et seq. 3 Transactions of London Path. Society, vol. i. p. 153.