393 VULVITIS. Chronic Vulvo-vagi- nal Abscess. Swelling pyriform; base downward; greatest swelling inward. Fluctuation. Irreducible. No impulse on coughing. Dull on percussion. Most common in old prostitutes. Pudendal Hernia. Shape very similar, but greatest pro- jection outward. Doughy or elastic. Reducible by pres- sure near ramus of ischium. Distinct impulse. Resonant if an en- terocele. Seen at any age. Cyst of the Labium. More distinctly cir- cumscribed ; some- times peduncu- lated. Elastic. Irreducible. No impulse. Dull. Seen at any age. Hydrocele of the Round Ligament. General, diffused swelling. Doughy. Partially reducible. No impulse. Dull. Seen oftenest in young persons. (Edema of the vulva is usually symmetrical, and in every case in which I have observed it has either been a result of pregnancy or parturition, or of the presence of an abdominal tumor, or has accompanied a vulvitis, and was then of course easily recognized by the inflammatory symptoms. Some interesting cases have been reported illustrating the possibility of contracting gonorrhoea from the pus secreted by abscesses of this character, which is squeezed out during intromission. In one instance no other disease of any kind was discoverable. It has been suggested also that these cases of chronic vulvo-vaginal abscess are those which not infrequently afford ex- amples of the escape of certain individuals who have had connection with a woman known to have infected others at or about the same time. The abscess-cavity being emptied by the first person, those following him at short intervals are not exposed to contact with its irritating secretion, and conse- quently develop no disease. Mucous Patches.—There is a form of vulvitis complicating mucous patches of the female genitals, which is due to contact with the labia of the oozing, offensive, puriform secretion of the syphilide. The condition is described by Cornil1 as follows:— “ The internal surface of the labia minora is generally red, and the remains of the hymen are almost always swollen, and of a bright red color. The urethral and vaginal orifices are in a similar condition. The folds of mucous membrane forming the remains of the hymen and the upper part of the urethral opening are frequently the seat of red or pale, irregular elevations, resembling vegetations; these elevations are covered by very thick layers of the epidermis. The sebaceous glands of the labia minora are enlarged, and at their orifice is seen a small, opaque, white concretion, which may be forced out by pressure, measures about half a millimetre in length, and consists of epithelial cells. The vulvo-vaginal glands are frequently swollen, so that they are easily felt, attaining the size of a cherry-stone or more. By pressure there may be made to flow from their ducts a turbid, mucous fluid, which contains numerous pus corpuscles and filaments of mucus. When the inflammation is very intense, a few drops of this fluid are discharged from the duct, even in cases in which there is no abscess of the vulvo-vaginal gland; the discharge is due to a limited suppuration of the connective tissue surrounding the gland.” Vaginitis.—The vulvitis which accompanies vaginitis in non-syphilitic patients often occasions small red erosions, round or oval in form, and upon 1 Syphilis : Its Morbid Anatomy, Diagnosis, and Treatment, p. 151. Translated by J. H. C. Simes, M.D., and J. Wm. White, M.D. Philadelphia, 1882.