SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. 106 1 Unpublished Memoranda in Office of Surgeon-General, U. S. Army. Correctness of Aim and Rapidity of Discharge.—The arrow can be aimed at fifty yards as correctly as the revolver, and can be shot nearly as fast. At close quarters, and in a melee, it is a weapon more to he trusted than the pistol. It is not common to find a man killed who presents hut one arrow wound: usually he will have received three or four; I have counted thirteen in one corpse. In 1872, two Indian scouts were found dead near Fort Rice, the two having been pierced by thirty arrows.1 An expert archer will easily deliver six arrows in a minute, for he does not aim with the eye, drawing the string to the shoulder, but simply points the arrow, both arms being extended, and the hand which holds the bow grasping at the same time a sheaf of arrows. These are not shot away wantonly, for their manufacture costs the lazy Indian too much work, but in the frenzy of the fray; just as a dog, when excited, will rend the victim which he ordinarily loathes. Poisoned Arrows.—After a residence among a number of our Indian tribes, and careful reference to authorities, I am satisfied that the North American Indian does not use poison on his arrow, at least not designedly. It is probable that in those cases in which poison seemed to have been carried by an arrow, it has infected the arrow accidentally, as may easily occur in view of the squalor and disregard of sanitary requirements in which the Indian lives. When arrows are prepared for war by dipping them in blood, etc., I believe that this is done from superstitious motives—a baptism of fetich, as it were. But a consideration of the subject, as already set forth, and as will be further developed, will show that poison is not needed to make the arrow a most effective weapon ; its silence, its penetrativeness, the diffi- culty with which it is removed, the rapidity with which it is discharged, and its correctness of fight, all confer upon it the highest deadliness. While this more particularly concerns the soldier, we shall find much in the character and treatment of arrow wounds to interest the surgeon. Appearance of Arrow Wounds.—The arrow makes a wound which is at the same time punctured and incised. Thus, while on the one hand, owing to its high velocity, it rarely fails to lay open any viscus or to divide any vessel which it touches, it makes, on the other hand, a well-like wound, like that inflicted by the bayonet. But owing to its high velocity, the wounds made by an arrow oftener preserve their continuity (like gunshot wounds received at close range) than do bayonet wounds, which, as already pointed out, by becoming discontinuous, prevent the outward flow of discharges, and so give rise to abscesses. The cleanness of cut which characterizes arrow wounds also renders them less apt to suppurate than other punctured wounds. If an arrow has passed completely through a fleshy part, we find the two orifices differing in appearance. The wound of entrance looks like that made by a small pistol ball, a slit being found in the skin, which may be darkened and bruised, and slightly depressed. The wound of exit is a simple slit. When only one wound is found, the shaft having been plucked away, a ques- tion may arise as to whether the injury has been caused by an arrow or by a bullet. After the attack by Navajoe Indians on Fort Defiance, in 1860, a soldier was found dead with a small wound just below the left nipple. The external wound looked like that made by a small conical ball, and it was thought that the man had met his death in a gambling quarrel at the hands of his comrades. But an examination of the in- terior of the chest showed that the vena cava was pinned to a rib by an arrow head, which had also passed through the heart. In all probability, the shaft had been removed by the archer.