PROPHYLAXIS OF BURNS. 219 eighty seamen, forty-five of whom died from the effects of the steam and hot water. In March, 1862, a cartridge factory caught fire and exploded in Philadel- phia, killing a large number of employes, and in many others causing most terrible burns ; twenty-eight of the injured were brought to the Pennsylvania Hospital, and of this number nine died, seventeen were maimed for life, and only two were cured entirely of their wounds. And during the present year, two other instances of terrible loss of life are reported, one at Nice, where, with the total destruction of the theatre by fire, some seventy persons per- ished, and the other at Vienna, where in the burning of the Ring Theatre more than three hundred lives were lost. Many, if indeed not most, of the fearful and constantly increasing number of accidents occurring in our coal and mining regions, are caused by the premature explosion of gunpowder, or from what is commonly called “ firing a shot,” in a forbidden part of the workings. The air is impregnated with coal-gas (“ fire damp”), and the mixed gas and air come in contact with a spark or flame. As one part of this gas with fifteen or twenty of air makes a most dangerous, explosive mixture, it is no wonder that serious accidents with terrible burns are so often observed. The lives of the large number of miners yearly lost by such accidents could, by a little care, be fully protected; but, as is usually the case, the accidents arise from a reckless violation of rules. The common his- tory of these terrible casualties is that some fool-hardy miner has opened his “ Davy lamp” to light his pipe, or to see better at his work, and, as a result, the lives of many are sacrificed, and the mine itself perhaps catches fire to burn for months or years. Prophylaxis of Burns. It is within a few years only that public sentiment has compelled the authorities in some parts of our country to take action in regard to the better security of life and limb in case of fire occurring in hotels, seminaries, col- leges, hospitals, factories, and workshops of every kind, in which operatives are employed or in which many persons are congregated, and in which a truly criminal neglect of such precautions has almost universally existed. Especially are such precautions needed in tenement and school-houses. Now, in many of our large Eastern cities, the owner of any such building, more than two stories high, is compelled by law, under severe penalty, to provide for his employes permanent and safe external means of escape in case of fire. A fire- marshal, appointed for the purpose, is required to examine and test all such fire-escapes, and, if found satisfactory, to issue his certificate of approval. In consequence of the constantly occurring accidents from fire in theatres and play houses generally, it has been suggested that the drapery of all kinds used in such buildings, and all stage paraphernalia, should be made uninflam- mable by the use of tungstate of sodium or fire-proof paint; a provision so important as to demand legislative action and general attention. In the same way the dresses of ballet girls, it is asserted, can be made fire-proof, without in the least changing the appearance of the fabric; and, as far as such dresses are concerned, this precaution at least should, by legal enactment, be made obligatory upon all proprietors of music halls and theatres. The introduction of the parlor or safety match, instead of the common match, has unquestionably been the means of greatly diminishing the number of accidents by fire, and such safety fusees should alone be used in hospitals and public institutions. Thus, by ways too numerous to mention, it becomes necessary for those in authority to require the exercise of the greatest care,