352 GONORRHOEA. This may come from any portion of the urethra, hut will usually be found to proceed from the fossa navicularis, or from the anterior membranous portion. By “stripping” the urethra an inch or so at a time, gradually working back- ward, or by proper use of a bulbous bougie, as will be described under the head of treatment, a very definite idea of the exact site of the trouble may be obtained. The meatus will often be found a little reddened or swollen, there will be an undue warmth or even a slight scalding on urination, erec- tions will be accompanied with a dull ache, and all these symptoms will be much increased by venereal, alcoholic, or other excesses, especially by pro- longed and ungratified sexual excitement and by the free use of spirituous liquors of inferior quality. There is no interval between this condition and the last stage, or rather the previous stage, of an acute urethritis. Gleet.—In some cases, and especially in those in which the gonorrhoea has been of long continuance, or has been frequently I’epeated, there will occur another group of symptoms, chief among which is a “ gleety ” or muco-purulent discharge. In the mornings, the lips of the meatus will be found glued more or less tightly together, and on separating them, a drop of opalescent, whitish fluid will become apparent, or may be squeezed out. There will probably be no pain at any time, unless micturition be attempted in the morning before the meatus has been opened by pulling apart its adherent margins ; in that case,, the same sort of momentary, lancinating pain may be felt, as is excited by only very moderately compressing the urethra at any point during urination. The discharge may be more profuse, but cannot usually be found during the day in sufficient quantity to be made apparent at the meatus, owing to the frequent washing out of the urethra by the stream of urine. There will often be found associated with this discharge, a few other symptoms, notably a dribbling of urine at the end of micturition, an increased frequency of the latter act, and a few vague lumbar or hypogastric pains or aches. This group of symptoms is one of great importance to both practitioner and patient—to the former because, unless they are observed and their cause ascertained, treatment will often be so unsuccessful as to reflect discredit or result in the loss of the patient; to the latter because they indicate the pre- liminary or formative stage of a condition which, at a later period, becomes of grave pathological importance, and also because, if the condition be at any time curable, it is just when it begins and may be recognized by these phenomena, a rational explanation of which involves the consideration of the so-called “ strictures of large calibre.” As the very existence of this form of stricture, or at least the possibility of its being a factor in the production of disease, is not infrequently denied, and as any experience, however moderate, with gonorrhoeal cases will involve the management of those I am now describing, it will not be out of place here to run over the main points at issue. Strictures op Large Calibre. To account, then, for the symptoms we have detailed, and for the existence of their essential cause, there are certain general physical and physiological laws which should be taken into consideration. Persistent irritation, such as results from frequent or protracted gonorrhoeas, causes at any given point in the body an increase in the fibrous tissue of that region, and the deposit or development of new tissue of a similar character. This is especially true of mucous and submucous surfaces, and still more particularly of the urethra, which, by the anatomical peculiarities already mentioned, offers peculiar facilities for the production and organization of inflammatory products.