605 INFLAMMATIONS OF THE SKIN. may not have been observed. Experiments failed for many years to establish Tinea favosa upon the skin of a second host, although it was known that the disease was contagious, and that the material used was parasitic. Treatment.—The treatment of these growths consists in evacuating their contents by forcible pressure with the thumb-nails, when they are pervious, and in arresting the free hemorrhage which follows by pressure. When in the form of closed cysts, they may be scooped out with the sharp spoon (curette), or removed by the knife or curved scissors. When very numerous and closely packed together, exfoliation of the overlying integument and dis- charge of their contents may be accomplished by covering them with com- presses thickly spread with German or domestic soft soap. The application of solid nitrate of silver or caustic potassa to the interior of the cysts, after squeezing out their contents, has been advised, but is seldom necessary. Inflammations of the Skin. Dermatitis Venenata.—Many substances when brought in contact with the skin are capable of exciting an inflammation of its tissues. The forms of dermatitis of this character, most frequently observed, are those produced by the poisonous species of Rhus (sumach), by tincture of arnica, and by certain dyes. The frequent occurrence of cases of poisoning by the plants mentioned, makes it the duty of physicians to acquaint themselves with their botanical characters. Poison ivy, as it is popularly called, is not an ivy, but belongs to the sumachs. It is the Rhus toxicodendron. It is sometimes a vine (Rhus radi- cans) running over or by the side of stone walls, fences, and ledges, or ascending trees to a great height, and sometimes a bush of considerable size and thick- ness (poison oak). It is found almost everywhere in the United States, in many places growing in great abundance, and forming dense masses by road- sides, in pastures, and along the borders of woods. Its leaves have a marked and very characteristic, glossy look, and vary greatly in shape, size, and out- line. They are ternate, that is, they consist of three leaflets, one terminal and two lateral, growing in common upon a rather long, semi-cylindrical stem. The leaflets are ovate, with rather a broad base, more or less pointed, and their edges are either entire, or notched and lobed in a great variety of forms. This plant blossoms in June, and the flowers are small, and grow in greenish- white clusters, mostly on the axils. The berries are small, round, and also of a pale greenish-white color. Later in the season, the leaves assume a great variety of most brilliant colors, and attract many gatherers of autumn foliage. At this season it may readily be mistaken for our common woodbine or Vir- ginia creeper (Ampelopsis quinque folia), unless it be remembered that the number of leaflets in the latter is five. The other poisonous species of Rhus, Rhus venenata, a small tree, growing mostly in swamps and low places, is much more virulent than the former, but is not so common. Its popular names are “poison dogwood,” “poison sumach,” “poison ash,” etc. Its leaflets, like those of the ordinary sumach, grow in opposite pairs upon a long stem, and vary in number from seven to thirteen. They are smooth, glossy, broader than the harmless species of sumach, and the terminal one grows from a considerable prolongation of the common stem. In the autumn its foliage surpasses that of all other trees in the variety and brilliancy of its tints, and thus attracts to its less frequented haunts not a few unwary visitors. The virulent principle of these plants is a volatile acid, which exists in all their parts, but especially in the leaves. All persons are not affected by it,