478 SYPHILIS. As the likelihood of mistaking malarial and syphilitic intermittent fever, one for the other, is very great, and as it is important to make the diagnosis when this is possible, I add the following table of comparative symptoms from Fournier:—1 Syphilitic Intermittent Fever. (1) Almost always quotidian, not as- suming the tertian or other forms. (2) Almost always nocturnal. (3) Attack generally incomplete, not comprising the three classical stages, the stages of chill and sweating being usually absent, and the feverish stage most pro- minent. (4) Attacks almost always irregular, the stages being confused or inverted, and the symptoms of the various stages asso- ciated. (5) Attacks very variable as to form and general character, differing in one case from another, or in the same case at different times. (6) Attacks usually briefer in duration than those of malarial intermittent, and frequently very short. (7) Never enlargement of the spleen. (8) Attacks rebellious to the influence of quinine, but yield readily to mercury. Malarial Intermittent Fever. (1) Sometimes quotidian, but more fre- quently tertian, especially in well-marked forms and at the beginning. (2) Usually diurnal. (3) Attack generally complete, that is to say, composed of three successive stages, each one presenting characteristic symp- toms. (4) Attack methodical as to evolution, each stage being clearly defined, and the stages succeeding one another with per- fect regularity. (5) Attacks generally uniform, and similar in one case to another, or in the same case at different times. (6) Attacks generally somewhat pro- tracted. (7) Almost invariably appreciable in- crease in the size of the spleen. (8) Attacks yield to quinine, but un- influenced by mercury. (2) The continued form of syphilitic fever, with exacerbations, is usually accompanied by general asthenia, sometimes giving it very much the aspect of typhoid fever. In other cases the temperature (104° F. and over), fre- quency of the pulse, extreme flushing of the face, headache, rachialgia, and general prostration, cause the attack to resemble the prodromic fever of variola so closely that even when a chancre has been detected, the diagnosis must be suspended until the fourth day. When, as occasionally happens,the outbreak of the small pustular syphiloderm occurs in the midst of the fever, the diagnosis becomes extremely difficult; and I have in several cases seen experienced and able practitioners entirely at fault for a time. The records of our smallpox hospitals tell a similar story, supposed cases of variola being admitted now and then during a smallpox epidemic, only to show undoubted syphilitic symptoms a few days later. An important diagnostic point may be mentioned in this connection, namely, the normal performance of the more important functions of the economy in spite of the intensity of the morbid process. Frequently, for example, the appetite is preserved, the tongue retains its normal color, and the stools are regular in patients whose pulse beats at a high febrile rate. Gamberini has noted the absence of thirst, and Yajda has observed that the urinary deposits do not at all indicate the degree of mal-assimilation which would naturally be looked for with an elevated temperature. In addition there are no pectoral rales, such as often occur in typhoid; no laehrymation, no conjunctivitis, no coryza, as in rubeola; no angina, as in scarlet fever; no pro- fuse sweats, as in rheumatic fever. (3) The ambiguous form of syphilitic fever is much less frequent than the 1 Op. cit., 2e 6d., p. 656.