151 AMPUTATION FOR GUNSHOT INJURY. obtainable when it is secondarily resorted to. Reyher, for instance, out of 22 cases treated in the former way, lost but 4, or 18.1 per cent, (from septic inflammation 1, from pyaemia 1, from fat embolism 1, from extravasation 1); three of these (out of six in all) being wounds of the thigh, and one (out of three) a wound of the forearm, while of 65 cases in which the antiseptic method was only applied secondarily, 23 (35.2 per cent.) terminated fatally: 5 of the arm, out of 12 cases; 13 of the thigh, out of 25 ; and 5 of the leg, out of 22—13 of these 23 deaths having been from septic phlegmon and pyaemia. Exsection in Gunshot Fracture. Putting aside, for the present, excisions of the articular extremities for frac- tures involving the neighboring joints, and taking no account of removals, more or less extensive, of detached fragments, with or without associated cutting away and rounding off of the sharp ends of the upper or lower un- broken parts of the diaphysis, there remain for consideration Resections in Continuity, and entire Extirpations of fractured and necrosed bones. It may be said in general, of the former operations, when primary, that the mortality which attends them is higher than that of the simpler informal removal of fragments, and that the ultimate results, as far as the functional value of the damaged parts is concerned, are no better, if as good. It should never be forgotten that, as Sedillot has said, these resections, “ sanctioned neither by theory nor by experience, . . . cannot be done without great disturbance and violence, and an unavoidable increase in the extent of the wounded sur- faces.” IN’or can early, complete extirpation be regarded more favorably; only exceptionally can it be justified, and, even then, as satisfactory a result would probably follow extraction of the entirely detached pieces of the broken bone, or, on the other hand, it might be better to amputate. Secondary ope- rations, whether partial or complete, for necrosis, or more rarely for caries, may be both proper and necessary; and they should be determined upon, and executed, upon the same general principles as when the death of the bone has resulted from causes other than gunshot injury. Amputation for Gunshot Injury. Excellent as are the results that frequently attend attempts to save fractured limbs, in an unfortunately large number of cases removal of the injured member will prove to be the truest conservatism, the lesser being sacrificed for the good of the greater. Joint injuries excluded, when should amputa- tion be resorted to ? (1) When there has been great destruction of soft and hard, parts, as in a crush by large shot, or when the limb has been almost completely or alto- gether carried away. Under such circumstances, the operation would natur- ally be performed at once, and, if possible, at a high enough point to get above the region of contused and blood-infiltrated tissues. (2) When the fracture is associated with laceration of the main vessels or nerves of the part, though, as will hereafter be seen, in certain regions such complicated fractures may be conservatively treated with good prospect of success. (3) When acute, infective osteo-myelitis has been developed. In the chronic form of this disease, when the entire length of the bone has become affected,