ANTERIOR BURS.® OF KNEE AND VICINITY. 719 are due to syphilis, being of a gummatous nature. The much thickened, chronically inflamed bursa) ai’e liable to attacks of acute inflammation, effu- sions of blood, etc., from any traumatic causes, such as blows or falls. They are apt under such circumstances, chiefly in syphilitic subjects, to become gangrenous and slough out en masse, when fungous granulations or trouble- some sinuses may result. Melon-seed bodies are often met with. Chalk-stones have been observed in a case of chronic gouty bursitis of this sac.1 Sub- cutaneous rupture sometimes occurs, and even the skin may give way. A cure rarely results from the former accident, and the latter is too seldom met with to justify generalization as to its effect. Diagnosis.— The only point requiring care is to determine as to the exis- tence or not of marked thickening of the sac-walls, the treatment varying according to whether such a condition is or is not present. Treatment.—In true hygroma,2 rest on a splint, the use of blisters, the pres- sure exerted by an elastic bandage or any other convenient means, with, in very voluminous tumors, a preliminary aspiration, will effect a rapid cure. The same plan will often succeed where the walls are not much thickened by inflammatory deposits. If the walls are markedly thickened, tapping, the employment of blisters, and pressure, with or without a preliminary subcuta- neous scarification of the interior of the sac with a tenotome, may be tried. If these expedients fail, the antiseptic or ordinary seton may be resorted to, taking care that the lower opening is kept patent. In the apparently solid forms of bursitis, nothing short of excision, or Volkmann’s antiseptic incision, will avail. I totally disapprove of incision followed by packing with lint, for reasons already given. On excising these growths, great care must be taken not to cut the fibrous hood formed by the lateral expansions of the quadriceps tendon, as unpleasant burrowing of pus might ensue. This acci- dent could only happen in the case of a large tumor which overlapped the patella. Such a mishap can readily be avoided by always keeping the knife- edge directed towards the growth. The incision itself should be lateral, so as to escape pressure, and, where possible, Packard’s oblique incision should be tried. Whatever the treatment, a relapse may occur, the continuous pressure and friction to which the parts are subjected giving rise to a new bursa, which in turn may become enlarged. This is, of course, excessively rare. Pre-tibial Bursa.—Inflammation of this bursa gives rise to an ill-defined, small, tender swelling, which can be most readily felt on either side of the ligamentum patellae, over the most prominent portions of the tibial tubercle. Sometimes the swelling can be felt more easily on one side than on the other. Enlargement of this bursa is quite common. It is more painful than that of the pre-patellar bursa, and interferes more with the movements of the knee- joint, owing to its being compressed between the tendon and the bone. The various measures suggested for acute bursitis, or even the actual cautery, should be tried. The disease is most commonly seen in rapidly-growing boys, about the age’ of puberty, and has been mistaken for osteitis. It often lasts for years, and interferes with exercise.3 Nothing should be attempted in the operative line, beyond aspiration, without the strictest anti- septic precautions, as the bursa sometimes communicates with the knee- joint. An unfortunate result occurred in two of three cases mentioned by Hamilton—two having been reported by Monro and one by himself. In one of Monro’s patients, in whom the sac was opened by a valvular incision, sup- puration in the knee-joint occurred, necessitating amputation, while in another, 1 Maunder, Clin. Lect. and Rep. Lond. Hosp., 1867-8, vol. iv. p. 258. 1 See Section on Hygroma. 3 Barwell, op. cit., p. 490.