622 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. no further changes except possibly those of spontaneous involution. If picked, or otherwise treated with violence, those which have lost their pro- tecting epidermis bleed easily from the exposed papillae, as their vascular- plexus is often greatly enlarged. There is no ground for the popular belief that this blood will induce the development of other warts upon parts which it touches, or that warts are in any sense contagious. Another variety is known as the filiform wart, presenting a fringe of fine, elongated, thread-like growths above the common level of the skin, arranged either in narrow lines, as along the free edges of the nails, or in patches of small size, like plush in texture. These are enormously elongated and atten- uated papillae without the protecting rim of epidermis, as in those first men- tioned. The “ smooth, flat wart,” which is hut slightly elevated above the surface, and without abrupt edges; which never loses its protecting epidermis; and which is inconspicuous until late in life, when it becomes rough and possibly pigmented, is the Verruca plana. The digitate wart, so called, is situated upon the scalp. It consists of nu- merous projecting protuberances, more or less tightly pressed together later- ally, and appressed or standing out at the periphery as individual rays. These are often quite vascular, and bleed easily when hit by the comb, and are never firm and hard like warts elsewhere. They vary in size from that of a small pea to that of a dime, and they occur singly, or in small numbers only. These are the true warts, and their anatomy is: first an enlargement of the papillae and their bloodvessels, and then a hyperplasy of the rete above them, with a corresponding thickening or heaping up of the horny cells of the outer layer of the cuticle. As to their causation we know nothing. Most common in childhood, they appear at any age. There are other growths upon the skin which are regarded by some patholo- gists as warts, but which are quite unlike those above described. Among these are the congenital forms (more properly called Nocvus verrucosus), which are occasionally seen at birth, hut which more commonly appear later in life, and generally become more or less pigmented, and subsequently hairy. Such warty nsevi occupy at times considerable portions of the surface, and follow in their distribution the tracks of important cutaneous nerves (Papilloma neuroticum), causing in some cases great and persistent deformity. The little, elongated, pedunculated growths which are at times attached in such great numbers to the skin, but which are merely duplications or little hernise of the integument, are sometimes wrongly regarded as warts (verrues charnues, of the French). The so-called “venereal warts” (although in no way directly of a venereal nature), the Condylomata acuminata, have already been described. Precisely similar growths appear also upon parts which have not been irri- tated by venereal discharges. Treatment of Wa;rts.—Warts may be most easily and completely cured by excision with the knife or curved scissors. When they are small and soft, the sharp spoon or curette may he used with advantage. These quick methods, however, are frequently impracticable, owing to the objection of the patient and, at times, the great number of the growths, so that a resort to other measures is often a necessity. Simple means will occasionally suffice, such as painting the growths daily with the juice of milkweed (Asclepias), with tincture of iodine, or with a solution of perchloride of iron; or apply- ing to them, when moistened, pulverized chloride of ammonium, etc. The rapidity with which they will frequently vanish under such applications, should cause one not to forget the fact that they will often disappear in the same way without any treatment whatever, as after being “ charmed.” A great number of caustics may be used for the immediate destruction of warts; among