SPECIAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF ULCERS. 285 Strapping.—In indolent ulcers, strapping with adhesive plaster has long been a favorite practice. To be successful, this dressing should be neatly and smoothly applied, covering more than the ulcerated surface; and there should always be some provision made for the discharge of pus from the surface of the ulcer, as otherwise the effect of the strapping may be rather to prevent than to encourage the growth of granulations. The limb is first to be thoroughly cleansed and softened by immersion in a warm-water bath, or by the use of a poultice for several days, and it should be well dried before applying the strapping. The strips of resin plaster are cut lengthwise of the cloth,1 and of a length and breadth corresponding to the size of the limb to be strapped. For the leg, they should be an inch or an inch and a half wide, and long enough to pass one and a third times around the part. Each strip should be wiped over with oil of turpentine, to soften the plaster and render it more perfectly adhesive. The surgeon, taking one end in each hand, applies the centre of a strip to that part of the leg which is opposite the ulcer, placing it so that the two edges shall press equally on the skin ; the ends are then car- ried around the limb and crossed over the ulcer. At most points the leg is not cylindrical; consequently, in laying the strip around it, the two ends will be found to cross each other obliquely. The first strip is applied an inch or more below the lower margin of the ulcer, the second strip so as to cover about one-third of the first, and so on until a covering is made for the limb, extending from an inch or more below to an inch or two above the upper edge of the ulcer. The lower margin of each strip is then lifted with forceps at the line of lapping, and a triangular piece cut out, so that the upper angle of the notch in each strip shall extend above the upper margin of the strip next beneath it; in this way several openings are made through which the pus may find free exit. A soft, broad pad of absorbent cotton is next placed over the straps, to absorb and retain the discharge, and a bandage is carefully and evenly applied, beginning at the heads of the metatarsal bones and end- ing below the knee. This dressing may be allowed to remain from twenty- four to forty-eight hours, or until the absorbent cotton is saturated with pus. The bandage and cotton should then be removed, and, if the plaster-strips still maintain uniform pressure, fresh cotton and a fresh bandage may be applied; if, however, the strips are disordered, or saturated with secretion, they must be replaced by fresh ones. Elastic Bandage.—Dr. Henry A. Martin, of Massachusetts,2 gives, as follows, his method of treating ulcers by means of the “ Strong Elastic Bandage.” “ For over twenty years I have, with unvarying success, treated all forms of ulcer of the leg by the application of a bandage of what is technically known as ‘ pure rubber.’ The length of this bandage is ten and a half feet, width three inches, and thickness of No. twenty-one of ‘ Stubs’s wire gauge.’ Into one end, two or three inches of strong linen cloth is inserted, and to this is strongly sewed a stout double tape eighteen inches long. It is important that the edges of the bandage should be per- fectly even. If there is the slightest notch in them, the bandage will be very apt to tear at that point, and become useless. If, however, it be properly cut, it will bear almost any amount of continued traction. This even cutting of the bandage can only be done by machinery It is astonishing how long a properly made band- age will wear. Many of my patients are wearing them every day, and have done so for two, three, even four years, and I have cured several successive poor patients’ ulcers with a single bandage which is still perfectly serviceable. To insure this dura- 1 If the strips are cut crosswise of the cloth, it will be found that the margins will stretch more than the centre, and that the pressure will be greater under the central line of each strip than at its margins. * Transactions of the American Medical Association, 1877, vol. xxviii., page 589 et seq.