128 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. nation. I have myself seen a patient live for ten hours after a pistol ball had passed through the superficial femoral and profunda arteries and the femoral vein; and another in whom death did not occur until the eleventh day, though the pistol ball had cut the left subclavian. Ordinarily, the primary hemor- rhage, aside from the first gush, which may or may not be considerable, is but slight, so much so that it has often, though incorrectly, been declared that “ gunshot wounds do not bleed.” The explanation of this is, of course, to be found in the contused character of the wound of the vessel—contraction, retraction, curling up of the divided inner coats, and coagulation, all combin- ing to close up the orifice. At a later period in the progress of these cases, secondary hemorrhage is very likely to occur, and is often followed by a fatal issue. Shock.—This nervous disturbance, of the intimate nature of which little or nothing is known, hut which for the present may be assumed to concern chiefly the ganglionic system, is in some degree or other an almost constant accompaniment of gunshot wounds. This “ reflex effect of the injury of nerves, large or small” (Mitchell), is indicated by enfeeblement of the heart’s action, and occasionally disturbance of its rhythm ; by resulting pallor, especially of the face, with clamminess of the skin, and at times decided and great reduction of temperature; by nausea and vomiting; by relaxation of the sphincters; by mental irritability, amounting it may he to delirium; and by more or less complete loss of consciousness. These reflex phenomena are very often markedly aggravated by the effect of fright on the one hand, and of hemorrhage on the other, so much so that in a given case it may be difficult, indeed impossible, to properly apportion the observed symptoms to these simultaneously acting causes. The nearer the wound is to the three great centres—those of intellection, of circulation, and of digestion—the greater, other things being equal, is the degree of shock produced, the greatest being, as a rule, noticed when the intra-peritoneal viscera are damaged, as might naturally be expected from the intimate nervous connection which these all possess with the semilunar ganglion, “ the abdominal brain.” From the earliest times, surgeons have laid it down as a law that severity of shock is proportionate to, and consequently indicative of, the gravity of the injury ; and this is un- doubtedly true, though the original constitution of the individual and his special mental state at the time of the wound (as regards fear, excitement, drunkenness, etc.) exercise a great influence upon the degree of development of this condition. In a diagnostic point of view, the most important symp- tom of shock is reduction of temperature. Redard, as the result of careful observation of fifty cases in Paris, declares that “ In gunshot wounds, a fall of temperature is a constant phenomenon. . . . Every wounded man brought to field hospital presenting a temperature lower than 35.5° C. (about 96° F.) will succumb, and consequently it is useless in such cases to resort to any operation. Every wounded man in whom a salutary reaction does not come on by the end of the fourth hour, and in whom the reaction is not in direct proportion to the fall [of temperature previously], ought to be considered as in a very serious state. Pene- trating wounds of the abdomen produce an exceptionally low fall of temperature, which is more marked as the stomach is approached. . . . Wounds by shell, other things being equal, produce a more marked fall of temperature than those by ball.” Secondary Effects.— The secondary effects are those of inflammation, the degree of which will be very materially affected by the condition of the sub- ject, the location of the wound, the size of the shot, and the treatment em- ployed. Although at times flesh wounds, especially those made by single bird-shot and small pistol balls, are quickly recovered from, and the healing