70 TIIE ANTISEPTIC METHOD OF TREATING WOUNDS. ciple of wound treatment, and the surgeon when he makes a wound will “lister” it in the fullest sense of that term. The same thing has occurred with all natural laws; when once discovered and firmly established they remain immutable, but the practical applications of them are constantly wide- ning and improving. As the other methods of antiseptic surgery have already been detailed in a preceding article, it only remains for me to describe the best means at present at our disposal for carrying into effect the great Listerian principle. At first the means employed were quite simple: some pure carbolic acid was poured into the wound, and, mixing with the blood, formed a crust; or the crust formation was assisted by the addition of lint; and under the protection of this crust the wound healed. Numerous disadvantages were found in this method, and many alterations and additions were made, till at length the present form was established, and has been employed satisfactorily for several years. The Aseptic Method. In order to have an aseptic state of a wound, a number of points must be attended to. In the first place, during the performance of an operation care must be taken to prevent the entrance of organisms. The skin of the patient is everywhere covered with dust which contains numerous active causes of fermentation. These must, therefore, be destroyed, as otherwise the operation would be entirely vitiated. On the hands of the surgeon and his assistants there are also numerous causes of fermentation, which must also be removed. The same is the case with all instruments, etc. Sponges must not be washed in water: indeed water contains perhaps more numerous causes of fermentation than ordinary air dust, and therefore it must not be employed at all. And the air itself, though in a much smaller degree than the deposited dust, con- tains some causes of fermentation which must also be guarded against. Then, after the operation has been performed, care must be taken to prevent the access of micro-organisms; this is done by the use of a suitable dressing, which imparts to the discharge, as it flows out, sufficient of the antiseptic stored up in it to render the discharge an unfit soil for the growth of micro- organisms. After a time the antiseptic contained in the dressing becomes exhausted, and must be renewed. When this is done, the same care must be taken not to introduce any septic dust as during the operation. The antiseptic which has been chiefly employed up to this time, and which has proved most satisfactory, is carbolic acid. For the purification of the skin, either of the patient or of the operator, a watery solution, of the strength of one part of the pure acid to 20 parts of water, is employed. The skin over, and in the neighborhood of, the intended wound, is thoroughly washed with this solution, which must be allowed to act for some little time, because the antiseptic has to mix with the fatty matters, and to penetrate into the folds of the skin, while at the same time some of the micro-organisms may be peculiarly resistant, and may require a considerable time for complete destruction. In cases in which poultices have been employed, or in which there is an accumulation of putrid material on the skin, it is well, after washing the skin thoroughly with this lotion, to wrap a cloth soaked in it around the part, and leave it on for fully half an hour before the operation. For the purification of the hands of the surgeon and of his assistants, in the first instance, if the operation be an important one, as, for example, on a joint, or opening an abscess, it is well to use the same strong solution of car- bolic acid, and care must be taken that the whole hand is thoroughly washed