CLASSIFICATION AND SYMPTOMS OF BURNS. 225 Prognosis of Burns and Scalds. On account of the greater delicacy and susceptibility of the skin to the action of heat at certain periods of life, and in some persons more than in others, the prognosis of burns and scalds may be rendered serious. For these reasons, in the case of children and infants, severe and fatal scalds have been produced by their being placed in baths supposed to have been properly tempered; and not uncommonly, in the confusion incident to the occurrence of a convulsion, a hot foot bath has cost the patient serious loss of integu- ment. Some years ago, I witnessed the entire destruction of a portion of a palsied foot, by the injudicious use of a hot brick, applied for the purpose of inducing a better circulation. Another point which it is important to bear in mind, in considering the effects of heat, is, that according to the bodily condition of the patient at the time of the reception of a burn or scald, it may terminate favorably or the reverse. Not long since, a young man in one of our insane asylums in Philadelphia drew from a spigot a bucket of scalding water, placed both his hands in it, and held them immersed some minutes before he was discovered ; his bodily condition was enfeebled at the time, and he shortly afterwards died from cerebral inflammation. As a result of com- paratively slight burns and scalds, persons of weak or nervous temperament, reduced by intemperate habits, or who have renal or other visceral disease, may, with this additional shock, be fatally prostrated. Cerebral hypersemia, with delirium more or less marked, a result of vaso- motor paralysis, is occasionally seen after burns and scalds, and similar symp- toms have been observed after exposure to the rays of the sun. Experiments made by Brown-Sequard would seem to show that through the intermedium of the spinal cord, the various remote effects of burns and scalds are produced by reflecting the irritation to the secondarily affected organs. The remote action of the burn, however, is not on the tissue of the organs themselves, but “on the vaso-motor nerves of the bloodvessels, which, in consequence of the morbid impression, are paralyzed. It seems distinctive of reflex vaso-motor paralysis that the hypercemia is diffuse, while that of tissue irritation is more localized, and tends more to exudation and suppuration.”1 Classification and Symptoms of Burns. The classification of burns into six degrees, as originally suggested by Du- puy tren,and since generally accepted by surgeons, is unnecessarily complicated; a division of these injuries into three groups will be found amply sufficient for all practical and clinical purposes, and will therefore be adopted here:— Burns of the First Degree: Hyperaemia; erythema; irritation or inflammation of the skin without vesicles. Burns of the Second Degree: Vesication; inflammation of the skin; formation of - vesicles and bullae. Burns of the Third Degree: Eschars; gangrene, superficial or deep, involving the skin or any other subcutaneous tissues; carbonization of a part, or of the entire body. Burns of the First Degree (Hypersemia; Erythema).—There is more or less diffused redness of the skin, which disappears under the pressure of the finger, and occasionally swelling and pain of a burning or smarting charac- ter. These symptoms may continue for a few hours or days, when the epi- dermis soon separates by exfoliation, and the natural condition of the skin is restored. Generally no permanent injury follows. 1 C. Handfield Jones, Clinical Observations on Functional Nervous Disorders. VOL. II.—15