159 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. attention should be directed to the controlling of inflammation, while others have used a bracketed splint; but very satisfactory immobilization can be made by the application of a plaster-of-Paris roller, up and down over the external and posterior.surfaces of the arm, extending it above and below so as to fix the scapula and forearm; with this form of dressing, strangulation cannot take place. What would be, in large numbers of cases, the results under antiseptic treatment, is, at present, a matter of inference. Reyher, at Kars, lost three out of eleven cases (27.27 per cent.), but of his five primary cases treated antiseptically from the beginning, none died, the three deaths occurring among the six patients who were not at once brought under the influence of antiseptics, and who were operated upon in the intermediary or secondary period. From such a limited number of operations, of course, no general conclusions can be drawn as to the value of the antiseptic method and the necessity of its adoption. With as much or more propriety, the English Crimean statistics might be held to show that the success of shoulder ex- cisions is greater when antiseptics are not employed, since of eight primary operations recorded during the second period of that war, only one died (12 per cent.), and of five secondary operations, none—being a total of thirteen cases with only one death, a mortality of but 7.7 per cent. Expectant Treatment.—From the earliest times, there have been reported occasional recoveries from shoulder wounds in which no operative interfer- ence was employed. Much attention has been lately directed to such treat- ment by “ expectancy,” and the opinion has been held by many experienced surgeons, especially among the Germans, that it is quite as likely to be fol- lowed by recovery as either excision or amputation; and some have even gone so far as to declare that the “ end-result” is a better one, the limb being more useful. Statistically, -it would appear from Otis’s investigations that the death-rate may be placed at about one-third -,1 but the value of such a state- ment, in determining the acceptance or rejection of this plan of treatment, is very much lessened when it is remembered that, as a rule, it has been adopted only for the less severe injuries. “An attempt to establish direct numerical comparisons between the results of expect- ant treatment, excisions, and amputations, after shot fractures of the shoulder, would probably be undertaken only by some sciolist or dabbler in statistics, since the injuries involved are so variable in nature and extent, that the terms of comparison cannot be fairly ascertained, and any strict application of the numerical method is impracticable.” (Otis.) In civil life, in which the wounds are almost always produced by missiles which are smaller, and which move with less velocity, than those causing the lesions met with in time of war, the expectant plan may be adopted with greater prospect of success; but even in cases of small-ball fractures, there is much danger of the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage, or of the development of general septic infection. Associated fracture of the scapula or clavicle, or both, if not very extensive, will not contra-indicate the adoption of a con- servative course of treatment; and in the somewhat rare cases of joint injury isosceles triangle, four inches thick at the apex, which rests against the chest and supports the elbow, the forearm being bent at a right angle with the arm. The cushion gradually thins down till the base is a mere edge, and of the two other angles, one is passed up into the axilla, while the other rests on the chest under the wrist. The cushion is readily fastened in its place by a tape round the neck, and one round the body.” (Mac Cormac.) 1 In our war there were 505 cases with 139 deaths, or 27.52 per cent.; collected from various European writers on military Surgery, 185 cases with 90 deaths, or 49.73 per cent. ; total, 690 cases with 229 deaths, or 33.18 per cent.