500 SYPHILIS. 1 See Duhring’s Atlas, Pl. c. pustules, looking not unlike those of acne and smallpox. The crusts which result from drying up of the pustules are yellowish or brownish-yellow, and are seated upon small superficial ulcers. The eruption may break out rapidly, with fever, or it may develop slowly. In the first case, small red macules appear, which rapidly develop into papules and then pustules, the eruption reaching its full development in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. In the subacute form papules slowly appear, and upon their summits a small quantity of pus gradually accumulates. In the acute form the lesions are numerous and widely disseminated. In the subacute form the lesions are less numerous, and are more apt to be localized and grouped. They are met with on the scalp, face,1 and trunk; more rarely upon the extremities. Other syphilitic lesions, such as papules, are apt to be present. This eruption is one of the earliest of the pustular syphilodermata, and, as a rule, pursues a rapid and benign course. It is apt to be mistaken for acne and especially for smallpox. The history, however, will easily prevent any mistake being made regarding acne. When fever is present, it is sometimes a little difficult to distinguish between the acneiform syphiloderm and the eruption of variola. The various concomitant symptoms must be carefully inquired into. In the syphilitic eruption, the initial lesion, or some trace of it, can often be found, and glandular engorgement in the groins, and in the epitrochlear and cervical regions, should usually be present. In addition, the well-known polymorphism of syphilis should lead to the careful scanning of the entire cutaneous surface, with the view of finding moist or dry papules, or other unquestionably syphilitic skin lesions, concomitant with the mani- festation under investigation. The acneiform syphiloderm is also liable to be confounded with the eruptions produced by the ingestion of iodide or bromide of potassium. The pustules of these medicinal eruptions, however, contain cheesy or sebaceous contents quite different from the frankly purulent fluid of the syphiloderm, and the history of the case also assists in the diagnosis. Sometimes, however, an exact diagnosis of acneiform syphiloderm is diffi- cult, if not impossible, at sight and off-hand, and a few days must be allowed to elapse in order to determine the nature of a questionable eruption. The Small Flat Pustular Syphiloderm.—This eruption, sometimes called the impetiginiform syphiloderm, is made up of small, flat pustules, grouped into an irregularly shaped patch. Crusting begins almost immediately, ren- dering the lesions markedly pustulo-crustaceous. The crusts are thick, bulky, and moi’e or less adherent ; they are of a yellowish-green, or yellowish- brown color, and sometimes coalesce and form a sheet. The ulcer underneath the crust may be superficial or deep. The eruption is usually met with upon the face, especially about the nose and mouth—on the hairy parts of the face—on the scalp, and about the genitalia. It is generally benign, but may sometimes take on a malignant form with deep ulceration. The impetiginiform syphiloderm may be mistaken for impetigo or for pustular eczema—the latter especially upon the scalp. On raising the crusts of the syphilitic lesions, ulcers will be found beneath. These are never encountered in eczema, an excoriation alone being seen when the crust is detached in this disease. The Large Flat Pustular Syphiloderm {Ecthymatiform Syphiloderm).— The lesions here are large, finger-nail sized, flat pustules, seated upon a deep red base. They incline to dry up and crust immediately. There are two varieties, the superficial and the deep. The first shows a flat, yellowish-