93 INSECT-STINGS. Centipedes (Scolopendridce) can bite or nip with their mandibles, and some inflammation is apt to follow ; a fatal case of this kind, in a child, has been re- ported by Dr. Linceicum, of Texas.1 In this case the little irritated holes made in the skin by the feet of the insect were also noted, and any one who has happened to touch one of our common centipedes will be likely to have felt a peculiar slight thrill in the lingers, lasting for some time. But the amount of poison contained in these small animals is of course vastly less than in one such as Dr. L. describes—eight inches long and nearly an inch broad. Nielly2 quotes from Moquin-Tandon an account of an officer at Cayenne, in 1828, who by accident swallowed a centipede in some water. Enormous swelling of the neck, profound nervous symptoms, and death, speedily ensued. Attention may here be again called to the fact that in these poisonings by insects (and the same is true in the case of snake-bite, to be presently dis- cussed) the quantity of venom taken into the system determines the severity of the symptoms induced. In this respect the disorder, for it seems to be one and the same, no matter what the source is, differs from that induced by dissection-wounds, in which the smallest dose of the morbific agent may de- velop the gravest possible constitutional condition. It is but rarely that any serious general disturbance follows upon insect-stings, although, when in large numbers, they may produce feverishness and languor. Travellers who are subjected to the attacks of bugs and fleas sometimes experience this, but the loss of sleep may have something to do with it. And cases are upon record in which death has resulted from bee-stings and other injuries of this kind. In some of these instances men, and even horses or other animals, have been attacked by swarms of bees, wasps, or hornets, and have sustained so much injury as to destroy life almost at once. No very careful investigation of these cases has ever been made, and the circumstances have generally been such that even a skilled scientific observer would have found it difficult to note the phenomena accurately ; but it would seem that so large a dose of insect-poison acted very much like snake-venom, and that the main cause of death was the shock to the nervous system. Of fatal results following single stings, Dr. James Mease3 has recorded a number of instances, and refers to others. Dr. J. A. Lidell,4 in an article on Injuries of the Scalp, refers to poisoned wounds of this region as especially dangerous, and gives accounts of and references to several cases of the kind now under consideration. Dr. A. L. Gihon, U. S. N., reports® a case of fatal poisoning occurring on board ship, at Nagasaki, Japan, by the sting of an unknown insect; the part attacked was a middle finger, and the symptoms resembled those of sedative narcotic poison. Four days elapsed in this instance between the onset of the disorder and its fatal termination; an unusually long period. Treatment.—The treatment of all these cases is, in its general principles, the same; local irritation is to be soothed, and if constitutional symptoms occur, they are to be combated by appropriate remedies. Alkalies, as dilute aqua ammonite or solution of carbonate or bicarbonate of sodium, seem to neutralize the poison. Every boy knows the comfort given by a clay poul- tice to a bee- or wasp-sting. Ordinary poultices, or lead-water and laudanum, may be applied if there is much inflammation. 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1866. 1 Op. cit. 8 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Nov. 1836, p. 265. 4 Ibid., April, 1879, p. 336. 8 Ibid., April, 1869.