381 TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. remedies used. He believed that in many chronic cases the so-called gleety discharge was nothing more than the ordinary secretion of the mucous follicles of the urethra. Mr. Hulke, at Middlesex Hospital, treated gonorrhoea almost exclusively by injec- tions, first of acetate of lead, then of nitrate of silver, using weak injections frequently or strong ones at longer intervals. In old gleet he occasionally used cubebs or copabia, but more frequently tincture of the chloride of iron. Mr. Watson, at King’s College Hospital, used injections of half a fluidrachm of carbolic acid and one drachm of bicarbonate of potassium to a pint of water, every two hours, at the commencement, when the inflammation was not marked; subsequently he gave acetate of ammonium and tincture of hyoscyamus internally, and discontinued the injections, though at a still later period he returned to them. Treatment of Complications. We may now proceed to consider, in the order in which they were de- scribed, the treatment of the various complications of gonorrhoea:— Balanitis usually requires for its treatment only perfect cleanliness and the use of some desiccant sedative powder, the one which I prefer consisting of opium and lycopodium (R. Pulv. opii, 9j; lycopodii, 3ij-)- Three or four times daily this should be dusted on the inflamed surface, previously washed and gently dried. Strips of dry lint inserted between the glans and fore- skin, and changed whenever they become moist from the discharge, will often effect a cure. Balano-posthitis, when accompanied with oedema of the prepuce, is best reduced by a lotion of lead-water and laudanum kept continuously applied. The dry dressing may be used with advantage after the swelling has sub- sided. I have seen good in both these cases follow from painting over the inflamed glans and the inner surface of the foreskin with a 30 or 40 grain solution of nitrate of silver. Phimosis may of course be relieved by circumcision, or by slitting open the foreskin along the dorsum, completing the operation at some later period; but both of these procedures are undesirable if it is possible to avoid them. In nearly every case, lead-water and laudanum externally, w'ith sub-preputial injections of soap and water, followed first by clean wrater, and then by lead-water Fig. 321. Taylor’s syringe for sub-preputial injections in cases of phimosis and laudanum, will reduce the swelling, so that the glans may be uncovered. A convenient instrument for the administration of sub-preputial injections is that devised by Dr. R. W. Taylor, of Hew York, and shown in Fig. 321. If the phimosis be obstinate, it may sometimes be necessary to confine the patient to his bed for a day or two, enveloping the penis in the same lotion, keeping it in an elevated position, and encircling it with a narrow strip of bandage. If actual ulceration have occurred, healing will be promoted, after the inflam- mation has been reduced, by the use of an astringent injection beneath the prepuce, the old-fashioned combination of sulphate of zinc with laudanum and water being one of the best.