731 PERFORATING ULCER IN ITS RELATIONS TO BUNION. corns, a bursa, or at least a bursal space in the connective tissue, is developed. If from constantly recurring irritation suppuration takes place in this bursa, the pus must fail to reach the surface through the thickened corneous epi- derm. Seeking then-the point of least resistance, it will eventually open upon the dorsum of the foot. A probe passed through the sinus will impinge upon the plantar corn, which may or may not be traversed by a small open- ing. In the perfectly healthy there will usually be no disease of any of the joints or hones of the foot. The treatment is simple, consisting in rendering drainage efficient by enlarging the plantar opening, and in exciting the callous walls of the sinus to adhesive inflammation by the introduction of a fine silk seton. (2) The second variety, depending as I have already said chiefly upon individual idiosyncrasy, is a much more serious disease, eventuating in a more or less complete destruction of the member, and sometimes even in loss of life. As will be seen hereafter, I know of no means of distinguishing it from (3) the neurotic variety, except by the absence of anaesthetic symptoms, and I shall accordingly describe the two affections together. Symptoms.—Perforating ulcer {mat perforant du pied) was first described by Cloquet, in 1837, and has since been studied by Boyer,- Marjolin, Vesigne, Wilks, Pean, Desoul, Masbrenier, Hancock, and numerous later writers. As a rule, it commences in the young, is hereditary, and of long duration, being characterized by a series of attacks alternating with apparent recove- ries. Most authorities—Helaton being the chief dissentient—agree in describ- ing the disease as commencing by the formation of hard plantar corns. These are usually situated over the heads of the metatarsal bones of the great, middle, or little toes, although other parts may be the sites of these callosities.1 Coincidently with the appearance of the corns, offensive sweating of the feet occurs. Suppuration next takes place, the skin gives way, and in the course of five or six weeks, if the resulting sinus be examined by a probe, bared, necrosed bone will be easily detected, which sooner or later separates—to be removed by art or nature—when a temporary convalescence results. When first seen by the surgeon, nothing will perhaps be found but a hard callosity over one of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, having at its centre a brownish depressed spot. This, on closer examination, shows itself to be a perforation giving vent to sero-pus. Subsequently the foot becomes slightly brawny and swollen. In certain cases, anaesthesia of the opening, and of the surrounding skin, with lowered temperature, will be detected. In others, severe pain in the heel and ankle is complained of. At a later period the tendons become affected, distorting the toes; the nails become yellow and fissured, perhaps laterally twisted; epidermal accumulations form upon the dorsal as well as on the plantar surfaces of the foot, and the integument becomes pigmented. Both feet may be involved, and even the hand has been seen affected by a similar disease. The anaesthesia may extend even above the knee. Nelaton describes the disease as always commencing by phlyctenulae, which contain pus. These breaking, the true derm, of a rose color and exquisitely sensitive, is laid bare and soon ulcerates. In all other respects Helaton’s account of the disease is identical with that given by Vesigne, Hancock, and others.2 The fact that the disease commonly occurs in strumous cases supports the opinion which I have already given as to its nature in the majority of instances. Wilks considers it to be strumous; Vesigne regards it as a variety of plantar psoriasis. The view that it is due to atheroma, etc., was disproved by Masbre- 1 VesignS states that it commences as a bunion, or as a flat corn, with thickening. * VesignS explains this discrepancy by showing that N^laton saw cases at a later period of the disease, when, as in several of his own cases, phlyctenulae were the starting-point of secondary, though never of primary attacks.