MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. 487 has sometimes been questioned whether it is not a coincidence of this affec- tion with syphilis.1 But the absence of profuse sweating and of visceral symptoms, the presence of simultaneous affections of the serous sacs, and the long duration of the morbid condition, together with the obstinate resistance of the affection to ordinary remedies and its yielding to specific treat- ment, all speak in favor of a syphilitic origin for this form of articular trouble. Arthritis with effusion, or hydrarthrosis, is a later lesion than the preceding, and may even occur two or three years after the appearance of the initial lesion. Its beginning is not accompanied by pain, and the intra-articular effusion may attain a considerable volume before the patient’s attention is drawn to it. When this occurs in the knee-joint, nothing except its size and a slight difficulty in walking denotes the presence of articular disease. The knee of one side alone is most generally attacked. When the nature of the joint trouble is discovered in time, the mercurial treatment causes it to disappear with great rapidity, but when untreated, considerable thickening of the synovial tissues may take place, a thick secre- tion maybe poured out, and a true syphilitic tumor may ensue, of a character to be treated of under the head of late syphilitic affections of the joints.2 The tendinous sheaths and serous bursae are sometimes affected in early syph- ilis. In one variety of these affections, there is effusion into the serous sac surrounding the extensor tendons of the fingers, without tenderness or inflam- matory symptoms, forming a sharply circumscribed, flattened, triangular tumor, with the apex towards the fingers, occupying the carpo-metacarpal region without extending beyond the transverse dorsal ligament. There is slight pain on pressure, with some little difficulty and weakness in the movements of the wrist. The occurrence of this affection in connection with the generalized skin symptoms of syphilis, and its rapid disappearance under the influence of specific treatment, will serve to establish the diagnosis. The prognosis is favorable. The somewhat similar affection known as acute hydropsy of the tendinous sheaths gives rise to considerable pain spontaneously or upon pressure. This form commonly occurs3 in the shoulder, knee, and instep, where the synovial sacs are numerous, and also on the posterior aspect of the olecranon and on that of the calcaneum; it may, in fact, occur wherever there are tendons with attached synovial bursse. Hygroma is a similar manifestation of early syphilis. Muscular Contraction.—This is one of the most puzzling of the affections of early syphilis, and particularly so because its pathology is absolutely un- known. ISTo lesion is known to account for the peculiar symptoms presented.4 These commonly affect the flexor muscles of the arm, although others are occasionally involved. The movement of the forearm upon the arm begins, without pain or other symptom, to become gradually less free, and, as if forced by an irresistible power, the forearm becomes flexed in an obtuse angle upon 1 Baumler, and Duffin (Cases of Syphilitic Rheumatism. Trans. Clin. Soc. London, 1869, vol. ii. p. 81) have described these forms at length. 2 See Fournier on the affections of the apparatus of locomotion in the secondary period of syphilis. Union Med. de Paris, 1873, Nos. 21, 25, 28, 46, 48, 49. 3 Important contributions to this subject are the papers of Verneuil, Hydropisie des Gaines Tendineuses dans la Syphilis (Gaz. Hebdom., 1868, p. 609) ; and Fournier, Note sur les Lesions des Gaines Tendineuses. Paris, 1868. (Reprint from Gaz. Hebdom., p. 645.) Vaffier also describes this lesion (op. cit.). 4 The best and fullest description of this affection is that given by Mauriae in his prolix hut important monograph, Des Myopathies Syphilitiques, Paris, 1877 ; a reprint of articles appear- ing in the Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie, t. vii., 1876.