GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 453 rence was suggested as far back as the beginning of the present century, but general attention was drawn to the subject only as recently as 1852, when a veterinary surgeon of Berlin was condemned to tine and imprisonment for having conveyed syphilis to nineteen individuals by vaccination. The virus was conveyed by an infant, whose health appeared perfectly good up to the day of vaccination, but who, seven days afterwards, broke out with a general erythematous syphiloderm. In 1861 occurred the famous epidemic of Rivalta, a small Italian village of 2000 inhabitants. Two series of vaccinations were performed, with an interval of ten days. Some time after the first, thirty-eight children showed manifest symptoms of syphilis; in the second, one of these thirty-eight transmitted the disease to seven persons. These facts, as well as others subsequently reported, attracted much attention, and the subject has of late years been studied with the result of making the symptoms and course of this form of disease much better known than formerly. A remarkable fact is, that in many of the reported endemics, the syphilitic manifestations appeared at different times and in different forms in the various infected individuals. Some showed an early occurrence of characteristic cuta- neous and mucous eruptions, while in others the disease appeared at a later date, in the form of a lesion limited to the point of inoculation, generalized manifestations not appearing for four or five weeks more. Another confusing circumstance was, that, many cases being inoculated with a liquid from the same source, the operation conveyed to some vaccinia, or syphilis, only, while others showed both affections simultaneously. In certain rare cases the vac- cinifer was found to be healthy. Viennois explained these apparently contra- dictory phenomena by showing that, when syphilis is transmitted by means of vaccination, the first lesion is a chancre at the point of inoculation, appearing after the usual period of incubation, and followed after the customary interval by general symptoms. When, however, the symptoms appear suddenly some days after inoculation, they cannot be regarded as the direct consequence of this procedure. Clinical observation has shown that the modification induced in the organism by vaccination may precipitate the appearance of eruptive symptoms, in cases ot individuals under the influence of syphilis. It remains to determ ine the agent of the contagion. The liquid of the vaccinal vesico-pustule cannot be held accountable, since, in many of the infants vac- cinated in the course of the various “ epidemics,” no syphilis followed. As we know that the blood of syphilitics is poisonous and infective, it appears likely that this was inoculated in the cases of transmission reported. The history of the cases makes this more sure, since it points to certain series of cases, where those vaccinated first from the arm of a syphilitic vaccinifer re- mained intact, while those near the end of the list, when the vesico-pustule was scraped by the lancet in order to obtain the last drops of vaccinal fluid, suffered infection. It should be said, however, that all writers are not in accord regarding the theory that the blood alone is the infective agent in these cases. Epidermic scales, leucocytes, and lymph, according to some observers, may also be the vehicles of contagion. It has been asked whether the blood of an individual who has received the double inoculation of vac- cinia and syphilis is virulent already at the moment when the vaccinal pus- tules are developed—that is, about the seventh day—and consequently before the appearance of the chancre. The fact is as yet doubtful, although the fol- lowing case seems to favor the affirmative: During the epidemic of Rivalta, a certain patient, who had served to vaccinate, on the 12th of June, seventeen infants, of whom seven were subsequently affected with syphilis, observed her vaccine pustules changing to indurated ulcers. On the 2d of August, the patient’s skin became covered with an erythematous syphiloderm. To sum up: Vaccino-syphilis may be derived from two sources, the vac-