SYPHILIS. 496 elevated or flattened, of a dull red color, and more or less sharply defined. The eruption is rarely extensive, and is not infrequently composed of a few scattered lesions at wide distances apart. The palmar and'plantar syphiloderm is a variety of the papulo-squamous affection, which is modified by the peculiar structure of the skin in the affected parts. The palms and soles are favorite localities, and here the eruption is apt to prove very persistent. The lesions sometimes look more like macules than papules; they are slightly raised above the surrounding skin, as a rule, ill-defined, and from split-pea to finger-nail sized. Sometimes they coalesce into crescentic or serpiginous and irregular patches. The lesions are usually covered with a thin scale, more abundant about the edge, giving the appearance of a collerette (Plate XI. Figs. 1 and 2). If these scales are removed, the surface beneath is seen of a dull red color. Sometimes, espe- cially upon the sole, an abundant formation of epidermis takes place, giving the patch a horny appearance (as seen in some of the lesions depicted in PI. XI.). At other times the lesions take the form of large pin-head or small pea-sized epithelial concretions, which can be dug out of the skin like the so- called “roots” of corns. This is the syphilide cornee of French writers, and when it occurs extensively on the soles, it may prevent locomotion. I re- cently saw a case where the plantar eruption was extensive, and where the patient described the feeling on walking as if the shoes were filled with hard peas. Occasionally the lesions display no desquamation, but have simply a dull-red erythematous look. In addition to the lesions described, fissures often exist extending deeply into the corium. The eruption is usually, though by no means always, symmetrical, and is apt to appear upon the centre of the palm or sole, or upon the ball of the thumb or the hollow of the foot. It rarely attacks the backs of the hands or feet, and is usually strictly confined to the palm or sole. Xow and then, however, a large patch is found to creep up over the edge of the palm or sole to the skin beyond, the disease commonly extending by a distinctly elevated, crescentic border. As regards the extent of the eruption, this varies greatly in different cases. Sometimes a single small lesion on one palm or sole may alone exist. In other cases it may be much more extensive, both palms and both soles being covered with the eruption. As a rule, there is neither heat nor itching. The affection is very chronic and persistent; it may last for years, and is often extremely rebellious to treatment. It may be either an early or a late syphilitic manifestation. When it occurs symmetrically, it is usually in the earlier stages; but single, isolated and unilateral eruptions are more commonly of late occurrence, sometimes years after the initial lesion. The diagnosis of the papulo-squamous syphiloderm often presents consider- able difficulties, and its various characteristic features should be studied with great care in all doubtful cases.1 It is liable to be confounded with eczema, with psoriasis, and on the palm or sole with callosity. From eczema it may be distinguished by the absence of heat, itching, and discharge, the two for- mer of which symptoms are almost always present in eczema. The course of the eruption and its history will also often be of assistance in the diag- nosis. In the examination of cases, when the diagnosis lies between the papulo- squamous syphiloderm and psoriasis, the following facts should be borne in : See an excellent paper Try Bulkley, On the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Scaly Erup- tions of the Palm of the Hand. New York Med. Record, March 18, 1876.