SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 660 extended a little beyond the affected patches, so as to include all possibly diseased hairs. After each sitting, the parts should be washed with strong soap and water, and should then receive some of the above mentioned applications. An ointment should be used for at least part of the day, as its action is more sustained and penetrating than that of the washes. The hairs which are removed each day must be burned, and proper precautions should be taken that the towels, soap, brush, and comb of the patient, as well as his head coverings, be not used by other members of the family. The process of epi- lation is to be repeated, as the hairs are reproduced, until they assume a healthy appearance and no longer contain any fungus elements. The treat- ment must be continued, generally, for months, to insure the complete eradi- cation of the disease. Tinea Triciiophytina.—This disease presents such different appearances, according to its seat, that its varieties have often been considered distinct affections, and have received separate titles. Ringworm of the scalp, called Herpes or Tinea tonsurans; ringworm of the general surface, called Herpes circinatus; ringworm of the beard, or Sycosis, at times called “barber’s itch,” as well as by other names; Eczema marginatum, a peculiar affection of cer- tain parts of the body, so called by Hebra in his original description; and most of the cases of parasitic disease of the nails, called Onychomyhosis, are all caused by the presence of one and the same fungus. They may be tabu- lated as follows:— Tinea Circinata.—The circinate form, or ringworm of the general surface, is familar to everybody. It begins as a red spot, which is slightly elevated above the surrounding skin, and which is covered in a few days with minute papules, or with whitish scales. It increases rapidly in size, fattening down in the centre as it expands, so as to form a circular patch, the elevated border of which consists of a ring—an eighth or quarter of an inch, it may be, in width—of the same papules and whitish scales, while the central portion appears scaly and of a dull red color. Thus it goes on increasing in size, forming at times a complete circle of six or more inches in diameter, which then appears simply as a ring, as the redness and scaliness of the inclosed skin disappear after a time. Sometimes the disease starts up afresh, within the district already swept over, and thus rings within rings may be formed. Generally, after reaching any considerable size, the disease dies out at certain portions of the border or rim, for want of proper nourishment or suitable soil, and segments more or less broken are left to advance over the uninvaded regions of the skin. Generally, too, new spots, the result of self-inoculation, appear before the disease has lasted long, and run the same course. The seat of ringworm is most commonly the neck and face, and these are the parts most likely to be the ffrst affected, from their greater exposure; but large surfaces of the body may be successively swept over before the disease is exterminated, or may exhibit simultaneously the characteristic marks of its presence. When about the face and neck, in children, it may extend its march to the scalp, and may thus give rise to one of the other varieties above mentioned; or, in a man, it may run through the beard, and cause there ap- pearances similar to those upon the scalp in children, or may terminate finally Tinea trichophytina -< A. Of general surface B. Of scalp C. Of bearded face D. Of nails ( Tinea circinata, common ringworm. ( Eczema marginatum. Tinea tonsurans. 1 Tinea circinata, early ringworm stage. (Sycosis parasitica, Tinea sycosis. Onychomykosis.