GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 206 During our late war, there were 15 ligations of the axillary in cases of flesh wound, with 12 deaths (80 per cent.) ; 76 of the brachial, with 21 deaths (27.6 per cent.); 20 of the radial, with 4 deaths (20 per cent.) ; and 10 of the ulnar with 3 deaths (33.33 per cent.). The large nerve trunks are, fortunately, not very often injured (about once in every 600 cases perhaps), but when wounded, though the results are not serious as respects life, they are very grave as regards the after comfort of the individual and the usefulness of the limb. Occasionally, because of extensive laceration of the soft parts (by shell frag- ments usually), of sloughing or gangrene of large extent, or of lesion of a main vessel, amputation, primary or late, has to be performed. Of fourteen such operations at the shoulder-joint, during our war, eight resulted fatally, or 57.14 per cent. ; of fifty-four of the arm, twenty-seven, or 50 per cent.; and of fourteen of the forearm, three, or 21.43 per cent. In civil practice, re- moval of the limb can only be required when a load of shot has been driven through the axillary space, so destroying the vessels and nerves as to render it certain that even if saved the arm must be useless, or because of the super- vention of gangrene, or of secondary bleeding that cannot be otherwise con- trolled. Gunshot Fractures.—Occurring much less frequently, but still often, and producing greatly increased risk to life, and far more ulti- mate interference with the functional utility of the ex- tremity, are cases of bone injury, almost always fracture. Bone contusion has but rarely been observed in this situa- tion, either because actually not present, or more probably because overlooked, the eifects produced being of a mild character, and being attributed to the injuries done the soft parts. All the varieties of fracture heretofore referred to are met with in this region ; fissui’es, comminutions, crush- ings, penetrations, perforations, etc.—but the results of such lesions are not as grave as those of similar injuries in the lower extremity. At times both arms are wounded, or even carried away, by a shot that does not touch the body. After the battle of Antietam, I saw a young infantryman who, when in the act of firing, was struck by a shell that crushed the left arm and right forearm, necessitating double primary amputation. Similar injuries have been not infrequently observed. Associated wounds of the neck or trunk are very com- mon, and in such complications are often to be found the causes of death. Nerves, especially those passing in close relation with the broken bone, and when the fracture is near an articulation, are frequently damaged, with resulting paralysis, atrophy, muscular contractures, pains, or numbness; and in the majority of non-fatal cases, a large part of the functional impairment met with after these injuries is due to such nerve lesions. In many cases, especially when the nerves distributed to the hand have been wounded, severe and quite persistent causalgia has sooner or later manifested itself. Tetanus is not very likely to supervene, even in hand injuries, having been met with in but 24 of the over 11,000 cases of this nature reported during our war. Primary, and still more often secondary, hemorrhage gravely complicates many of these cases, and traumatic aneurisms are at times developed; the vas- cular lesions, too, are often, but much less frequently than in like wounds in Shell-fracture of hu- merus treated by exci- sion. (A. M. M., Spec. 1738.)