PSEUDO-VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. 592 “ The eruption,” according to Duhring,1 “consists of variously sized papules, tubercles, and tumors, which are present in all stages of development; they begin in pin-head sized points, which enlarge until they become the size of split peas, resembling in appearance currants and raspberries ; as they grow they incline to become flat on their summits, and become studded with yellowish points. In time they may become as large as cherries, become softer, are apt to break down and ulcerate, discharging a thin, fetid, yellowish fluid. These lesions may be round or semi-globular, or may coalesce, forming patches of a vegetating or fungoid nature.” Mr. Hutchinson,2 in describing a case of yaws which occurred under his own observation, says that the eruption consists of small red tubercles, pre- sent in various stages of development; when they first appear, they are small red pimples, afterwards shining red vesicles, and, when more fully developed, round elevations with flat tops, of a bright pink color, glassy, and semi-trans- parent, but possessing more the consistence of raspberries than of currants. The substance of the tubercles is solid, they do not collapse when pricked, but blood or bloody serum oozes from them when their surface is broken. Some become pustular, and others, when fully developed, ulcerate at their bases and drop off"; their bases are not surrounded by an areola of redness. Dr. Imray3 says that if yaws are observed as they first make their appear- ance on the surface, one or more whitish or yellowish spots will be perceived, not larger than a pin’s head; these spots are seen very distinctly on the dark skin of the negro. Gradually the spots enlarge and begin to project from the surface, retaining for the most part their circular form, and having much the appearance of small globules of yellow pus. The skin remains unbroken until the yaws attain the size of small peas, when a spongy yellow surface, from which a thin fluid oozes, presents itself, and this spongy body continues to enlarge until it projects considerably from the surface. The most common seats of the eruption are on the face, neck, genitals, perineum, and anus ; upon the vulva and upon the lips, the eruption may be so profuse as to form a complete ring around the orifices. The lesions show no regularity of distri- bution, and are neither painful nor itching. When, however, the fungous excrescences appear on the soles of the feet, where they are prevented from rising by the thick epidermis, they cause those parts to become painful and swollen, and thereby offer a great impediment to walking. In this situation they are called by the natives of the West Indies tubbce, or crab yaws; the case observed by Mr. Hutchinson presented this lesion. When the eruption disappears without ulceration, dark spots are left which gradually fade away, but when there has been much ulceration deep scars are produced which are permanent. The disease is acquired by direct contact with those suffering from yaws, or by means of eating or drinking utensils, etc. From the almost constant presence of the eruption on the genitals, coitus is a frequent means of its transmission. In the West Indies, it'is said also to be produced by the bite of a large fly, which, from its supposed agency in producing the disease, has received the name “yaw fly.” The period of incubation of the disease is from three to ten weeks, and its duration is from nine to thirteen months; one attack is believed to protect the patient against further invasions, although on this point as well as on that of hereditary transmission, it must be acknowledged that there is some difference of opinion among various observers. Imray4 considers yaws a contagious, but not an infectious disease, and be- 1 Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, p. 467. 2 Descriptive Catalogue of the New Sydenham Society’s Atlas of Portraits of Diseases of the Skin, p. 148. 3 Fox, op. cit., p. 468 4 Fox, op. cit.