SYPHILIS. 528 observations of Virchow and others, is stoppage of the biliary passages by pressure from a gumma. Clinically, the icterus in the first of these cases is more marked, but not as persistent, as in the second case—that of compression by a gumma. Ascites is occasionally observed, though not to a marked degree. It is due to involvement of the hepatic vessels interfering with the circulation in the liver. The chief characteristic of these various symptoms of the first period of hepatic syphilis is that of being curable. They yield with tolerable promp- titude to antisyphilitic treatment. In addition, the spleen and kidneys may be involved simultaneously, ulce- ration of the pharynx is very apt to be present, and various other symptoms of syphilis may coexist to make the diagnosis easy. It should be remarked that digestive troubles are not usually present. (2) The second stage is unmarked by any physical or functional symptoms of a characteristic nature. (8) The third stage is marked by physical and functional symptoms. Atrophy is general]}' well marked, but as atrophy of one part of the liver is at times compensated by hypertrophy of another, percussion must be made very carefully, when it will show marked irregularity of outline—atrophy in one place, hypertrophy in another. Occasionally, irregularities and lobula- tions can be perceived by manipulation of the edge of the liver. Sometimes the abdominal walls will be observed to be immobile during respiration, instead of gliding over the surface of the liver, as in the normal condition. Among the functional signs, icterus, although sometimes observed, is rare. Ascites is well marked, beginning slowly and insidiously, through the period of a month or more, and then suddenly developing to a considerable degree within four or five days, so as to interfere with locomotion and to hinder respiration, requiring puncture at times, and even then oftentimes returning with increased rapidity. Ascites is a grave symptom when it appears; little or no relief can be expected from treatment. Digestive disturbances constitute a marked feature of the affection under consideration. They arise in part from the condition of the liver, and in part from the general cachexia. Vomiting is an early symptom; it may precede all others. Diarrhoea, on the other hand, is more frequent in the later stages of the disease, when it is met with in six cases out of seven. The stools are pale and discolored if there is retention of bile. The intestinal functions are likewise imperfectly performed; there is meteorism; the abdomen is dis- tended ; and, as nutrition does not go on perfectly, the patient becomes thinner day by day. The course of hepatic syphilis is slow, progressive, insidious, or even con- cealed. In some cases it runs its course without giving rise to any perceptible external symptoms. Its duration is long, unless when an extension of the ascites or some complication causes death, and it may exist months or years without causing any considerable disturbance of the system at large. The affection terminates most frequently by producing marasmus and cachexia. Diagnosis of Hepatic Syphilis.—Syphilis of the liver is to be distinguished from cancer, hydatid cyst, and drunkard’s liver. The diagnosis is at times very difficult, but attention to the following points may aid in distinguishing doubtful cases:— Cancer only shows itself at an advanced age, fifty or sixty years on an average. It invades both lobes at the same time. Pain is more severe ; there is vomiting, rapid depression of the vital forces, and special cachexia. The affection does not last more than from six months to two years. Icterus is