DIAGNOSIS OP THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. 439 lesion. In other words, there was a commingling of two kinds of poison; what did occur was a double infection at the same spot—possibly, not neces- sarily, at the same coitus—and, each disease following its own natural course, the first to appear would be the chancroid, and after that, at the proper time, the syphilis embodied in the initial lesion. Each disease, to parody the well- known maxim in the old Roman policy, “divide et impera,” pursues its own course undisturbed by the other, as far as it is possible to do so, but the syphilis, as the more chronic affection, naturally outlives the chancroid. Diagnosis of the Simple Venereal Ulcer. To repeat what was said before when discussing the gross appearances of the chancroid, the diagnosis of this variety of ulcer is based upon the follow- ing points:— (1) An absence of incubation. The chancroid appears usually within the first eight days after the infecting coitus, and probably in a large proportion of cases even earlier. (See Resume of Tables XI.-XIV., page 423.) (2) The property of auto-inoculation. This consists in a capacity for repro- duction within certain limits from the secretion of the original ulcer. Owing to this property, this variety of sore is more often multiple than single. (See Resume of Tables V.-X., page 421). (3) The absence of induration of the base. This point, it is true, has lost some of its significance since the discovery of the fact that the initial lesion of syphilis is occasionally met with devoid of induration. Nevertheless, should this point be doubtful, other symptoms must be appealed to in order to establish the diagnosis. The pseudo-induration of the simple venereal ulcer must also be rated by the same standard. (4) The copious purulent secretion. This is due to the inflammatory and destructive nature of the sore. (5) The punched-out and undermined edges of the sore. (6) The irregular and eroded appearance of the floor. (7) The grayish-yellow layer covering the floor of the ulcer. These three last are all due to or result from inflammation. Relative Frequency of Simple Venereal Ulcer and Initial Lesion of Syphilis. Table XXV. (Ricord, op. cit., p. 10.) Total number of patients 10,000 “ affected with simple chancres ........ 8,045 “ “ “ infecting chancres ........ 1,955 Table XXVI. (Fournier, ibid., p. 9.) Total number of patients .......... 341 “ affected with simple chancres ........ 215 “ “ “ infecting chancres ........ 126 Table XX VII (Chabalier, Historique de la plurality des Maladies Veneriennes. These. Paris, 1860.) Total number of patients .......... 208 “ affected with simple chancres ........ 118 “ “ “ infecting chancres ........ 90