23 SOURCES OF INTERFERENCE WITH HEALING OF WOUNDS. Sources of Interference with Healing of Wounds. The different modes of healing, and the processes by which injured tissues are repaired, having been fully described, I propose to consider next the causes that interfere with, retard, or prevent repair; and these may be found either in the subject of the wound, in the wound itself, or in its treatment Presence of Foreign Bodies.—Amongst the causes which pertain to the wound itself, the presence of any foreign matter whatever must be placed first, since it is clear that where such is found, even to a very limited extent, repair by immediate, primary, or quick union is impossible ; the foreign mat- ter not only, by its presence, mechanically prevents the adhesion of the sur- faces between which it is placed, but also acts as an irritant, or as a promoter of septic changes, and thus excites an action in the wound which is not repara- tive, but inflammatory. The truth of this general rule is not disproved by the fact that, in exceptional cases, foreign bodies become encysted in tissues, and save rise to but little trouble. Hemorrhage.—The occurrence or persistence of bleeding in the wound is a second local cause of non-repair, the reparative process not commencing until all bleeding, even capillary oozing, has been arrested. When the hem- orrhage is great, this interference may be serious, and even when little, it is enough to retard and prevent the reparative process from being carried out. Blood, if effused to any extent between the sides of a wound, interferes with the reparative process much in the same wTay as does a foreign body, and for- bids all healing by quick or primary adhesion. If effused in very small quantities between the divided surfaces, it may at times possibly change into cicatricial tissue, and form a bond of union between the divided parts; and under other conditions it may become organized, as when poured out on the brain; but, as a rule, the effusion of much blood into a wounded part is a retarder of repair, or a cause of 11011-repair. When a wound has to heal by granulation, a clot of blood, as a covering, kept aseptic, is beneficial, since it acts as a protector to the surface of the wound, and allows the granulating process to go on uninterruptedly. It has been said that such clots become organized, but it is far more probable that they simply act, as above described, as a protection to surfaces that are granulating. Contusion and Laceration.—A contused or lacerated surface in a wound is a third local cause of non-repair, and it is well to recognize this important fact, since, with such a condition of parts, the surgeon knows that immediate or primary union of the wound is not to be expected. Under these circum- stances, a line of treatment will be indicated, which will be far more likely to be efficient than one based on the hope of obtaining quick repair. When the contusion or laceration is slight, the hope of securing primary union of the divided parts may indeed be entertained, but, under opposite conditions, such a hope would be altogether groundless. The gradations of contusion and laceration between these two extremes are numberless; but it will be wiser for the surgeon to believe—and upon such a belief to act—that in con- tused and lacerated wounds the prospect of obtaining quick union is slight, than for him to act upon an opposite view, and attempt to obtain, in severe cases, a mode of healing the occurrence of which is improbable, if not impos- sible. In a contused or lacerated wound, the surgeon should mentally see dying or dead matter, which, of necessity, must be separated from the living parts