( 293 ) GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. BY E. M. MOORE, M.D., PROFESSOR OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO. Gangrene. (.Mortification. Sphacelus.) The terms Gangrene and Mortification must be regarded as Greek and Latin synonyms, for while they include the condition of death or Sphacelus, they also imply the process of dying as applied to a particular portion of the body. Of course in a process of this kind, no positive line can be drawn be- tween the living and the dead. The symptoms which indicate the presence of gangrene are both of a local and of a general character. It is impossible for even a small portion of tissue to be in a gangrenous condition without producing constitutional symptoms, and these vary in a degree out of all pro- portion to the amount of tissue thus affected. Life is sometimes lost by poison generated from a small surface, and at other times a limb may become gangrenous up to the knee, and if the pro- gress of the disease is not too rapid, the constitution will resist it so as to allow the process to terminate and life to be preserved. The constitutional disturbance is essentially due to the absorption of exu- dates, which being already necrosed must be passed through the organization and thrown off by the emunctories. Such a process must have a depressing tendency depending partly upon the amount to be carried off, and partly upon its character. It is true that we know but little of the chemical con- struction of these exudates, which contain fluids so intensely virulent in their action that a mere scratch is sometimes sufficient to induce a fatal gangrene, while in other cases they are so mild as to allow the process of dying of a whole extremity, as a hand or foot, without seriously endangering life. This remarkable difference of intensity gives color to the belief that a variety of poisons must be generated in the act of decomposition, and the chemists fur- nish by their analyses substances which differ in the various forms of gan- grene. But no evidence exists of the production of septicaemia from any one of them. Neither can the experiments with the so-called sepsin be considered conclusive. Nor can we yet accept the doctrine of “ bactersemia” without reserve. Causes of Gangrene. The causes of gangrene are very numerous, but in one way or another they mostly consist of an arrest of the circulation. Still it is not merely the con- dition of the circulation that determines its production. The cell has a life which may be destroyed by the presence of poisons while the circulation still