THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 248 processes of granulation and cicatrization, which formerly caused such terrific and incurable deformity, with loss of the function of parts, if not loss of the parts themselves; hut, by the aid of skin-grafting and transplantation of in- tegument, large acute or chronic ulcers are now very successfully treated. The treatment of cicatricial contractions depends very much upon the part involved ; gradual compression by the aid of adhesive plaster is often followed by excellent results, and before any operation is instituted for the division of such cicatrices, this method should be thoroughly tried. Oiled compresses are also of great service in making the cicatrices more yielding. After bands of contracted tissue have been divided, and the deformity corrected, as far as possible, the exposed surface left by the retraction of the tissues, if considera- ble, should be converted into a healthy granular surface, and then treated by skin-grafting or by transplantation of integument: the former method, how- ever, will generally be found the more satisfactory. Lightning Stroke. It seems to he a fact widely known and generally accepted, that when the human organism is so placed that it receives the direct stroke of lightning, instant death ensues; and this may he laid down as the rule, but it is a rule not without exceptions. Aerial electrical currents, however, in their dis- ruptive discharges, very commonly strike objects in the immediate neighbor- hood of individuals, and thus it happens that persons happening to be in the vicinity of such discharges are more or less stunned by the shock, and are said to have been “struck by lightning,” when in fact they have received only a nervous or induced electrical shock, which may he more or less severe, but is rarely fatal. The fact that so large a proportion of recoveries takes place after so-called “lightning strokes,” conclusively proves that such injuries are not from a direct, but from an indirect, stroke. The majority of deaths from lightning stroke occur in the level, open country, especially on a plain deficient in trees; villages and thickly built-up towns and cities suiter less. In certain portions of our western country, lightning stroke has been very destructive to life, from the notable absence of trees, or high buildings, which, constantly distributing electricity by con- duction tend to produce an equilibrium between the earth and the air. It is stated that the beech tree (Fagus sylvatica) has never been known to be assailed by atmospheric electricity; so notorious is this fact, that it is acted upon by inhabitants of different parts of the world, and in many places it is considered impossible to be struck by lightning if protection be sought under the beech. Herr Ivofferstein says that in Germany the oak is very often struck, the beech very seldom, even in those cases where the trees are inter- mixed. In Denmark the same observations have been made respecting the immunity of the beech tree from lightning. The effects of lightning stroke are seen not only on land, but also very fre- quently on water; and even divers under the water are not exempt from dangers from this source. For instance, at Cole Harbor, Halifax, a diver who was at work far under the surface of the water was seriously injured by lightning, which struck a communicating pump; the man when brought to the surface was insensible, but eventually recovered. The loss of life from lightning stroke throughout the world is annually very great; in European Russia, during seven years (1870-4877), no less than 2270 persons were killed by lightning; in Austria, during the same period, 1700 persons were likewise destroyed ; in Prussia, it is stated that upwards of 70 persons are annually killed ; in France the average is somewhat higher —10,000 persons are reported as having been struck during a period of nine