SYPHILIS. 564 Dactylitis syphilitica is usually observed in very young children, but may occur as late as the twentieth year. It is characterized by swelling of the phalanges, followed in some cases by absorption. The metacarpal and meta- tarsal bones are likewise the seat of similar affections. The swellings in the latter case usually form rapidly, and attain considerable size ; the integument may ulcerate. The treatment of all bone swellings should combine the administration of both mercury and iodide of potassium. The following ointment may be used externally:— R—ling- hydrarg., Ung. zinci ox. aa §ss. Bals. Peruv. 5j- M. Graduated pressure is often advantageous. In connection with diseases of the osseous system in infants, reference may be made to the recent discussions on the relationship between rickets and hereditary infantile syphilis. The writings of Parrot, and the debate on the subject in the London Pathological Society, a year or so ago, may be referred to in this connection. As the subject is as yet confused and obscure, not- withstanding the recent attempts to shed light upon it, I do not think it profitable to enter into its discussion here. Cornea and Teeth.—The affections of the cornea and of the teeth in heredi- tary syphilis demand a passing notice, on account of the diagnostic import- ance which has been attributed to them. Some years ago, Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson1 brought forward the view that the peculiar inflammation of the cornea usually occurring between the ages of three and twenty, and known by the name of strumous keratitis, was always due to hereditary syphilis. This, which is a diffuse keratitis, gives rise to a hazy appearance of the cornea, causing it to look like ground glass. In connection with this condition of the cornea, certain changes in the teeth take place. The exact nature of these, and the appearances presented, having been frequently misunderstood, Mr. Hutchinson2 gives the following memoranda for the avoidance of error in diagnosis. 1 No special peculiarities are to be looked for in the first set of teeth. 2. There can be no more serious blunder than to imagine that bad teeth in propor- tion to their badness of form are to be suspected of syphilis. 3. The upper central incisors are the only teeth which are positively characteristic. The others may afford corroborative testimony, but are not to be relied upon alone. 4. The chief peculiarity is a general dwarfing of the tooth, which is both too short and too narrow, and, from its sides slanting together, presents a tendency to become pointed. This tendency to pointing is always defeated by the cutting off of the end, the truncation being usually effected in a line curved upwards so as to produce a single shallow notch. At the bottom of this notch the enamel is deficient and the dentine ex- posed, but there is no irregular pitting, as in stomatitis teeth. 5. The malformations are unusually symmetrical, and affect pairs of teeth. The two central incisors resemble each other, and the two laterals are also alike. If any defect passes horizontally across all the incisors at the same level, and affects them all alike, it is probably not due to syphilis. 6. In syphilis the lateral incisors usually show little or no malformation. 7. The occurrence of the peculiarities due to syphilis and those due to mercury in the same mouth are exceedingly common.3 The importance to be attached to the characteristic appearance of the teeth in hereditary syphilis has been disputed by some observers. For myself, 1 Ophthalmic Hosp. Rep., vol. i. p. 229. 2 Illustrations of Clinical Surgery, fasc. xi. London, 1878. 3 I do not think that this remark will apply to America.