GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 160 without osseous lesion, it is of course the method that should be at first se- lected.1 Even if after some weeks exsection should be rendered necessary, the result, it would appear from the statistics previously given, would not be in any great degree worse than if it had been primarily resorted to. Unfortunately, however, during the period in which, if it can possibly be avoided, no ope- rative interference should be allowed, a considerable percentage of the more seriously injured patients who have been expectantly treated, die, while many of them doubtless might have recovered had an early operation been prac- tised. But as amputation, as the result of extended experience, gave place to excision as the proper measure to be adopted in the graver cases of shoulder wound, so future observation may lead to the substitution, for either, of the skilful aiding of nature in her efforts at restoration. Such a report as that of Beck’s, who saved twenty-six out of twenty-eight cases (one dying of tetanus, the other coming under treatment only when in such bad condition as to be no longer a proper subject for any operation), is certainly very en- couraging ; particularly so if, by the adoption of an antiseptic course, early healing can be secured and wound infection prevented, in considerable part, if not wholly. When expectancy is tried, the ordinary measures for the main- tenance of rest of the part and of the fragments, and for the securing of thorough drainage, must be adopted here as everywhere else. As Beck has written:— By absolute rest, appropriate position, and corresponding bandages ; by immobility; by constant application of cold ; by an antiphlogistic regimen ; by incisions (extended, in cases of severe tension of the capsule with threatening suppuration, even into the synovial sac, for the purpose of allowing the accumulated fluids to escape) ; by well timed opening of burrowing abscesses; by extraction of loose splinters or fragments; by the administration of opium ; by subcutaneous injection of morphia in case of severe pain—the course of the injury may frequently be controlled, and even a cure with use- fulness of the limb, though comparatively limited, may be accomplished. Anchylosis may be expected to take place when the comminution and the necessary removal of fragments have not been very extensive, but freedom of movement of the scapula much lessens the resulting impairment of the func- tions of the arm. Stiffness of the joint, in greater or less degree, will almost certainly attend the cure; and even in many of the peri-articular injuries, false anchylosis from contracted cicatricial bands will occur. Gunshot Injuries op the Elbow. Like those of the shoulder, wounds of the elbow-joint may be either accom- panied or unaccompanied with fracture; and in cases of the former kind, which are by far the more numerous, all the bones of the articulation may be injured, or only some of them. Peri-articular wounds and contusions commonly cause very decided synovial inflammation, but it becomes suppurative only after opening of the membrane by ulceration, by gangrene, or by injudicious surgery. Cicatricial contraction and muscular shortening usually cause more or less false anchylosis ; and nerve lesions, primary or inflammatory, may lead to the development of neuralgia, and may contribute in no small degree to the production of the commonly occurring muscular atrophy, which is due in part also to disuse. A severe contusion, because of both its immediate 1 Among the 84,000 and more gunshot wounds of the upper extremity reported during our war, there were 225 cases of joint wound without fracture 72 of these being of the shoulder ; of these 6 died, or 8^ per cent.