WOUNDS OF ENTRANCE AND EXIT. 125 true. The differences in this respect that have not infrequently been noticed, and the resulting, conflicting views of observers and writers, may be easily understood and readily explained. It is a well-known law that splintering and tearing are in inverse proportion to momentum, and according as the velocity of a missile is lessened in passing through a portion of the body, will the orifice of outlet present greater size than that of inlet. This dimi- nution of force being much more in the case of a spherical than in that of a conical ball, wounds produced by the former will show correspondingly greater differences in size than those produced by the latter; indeed, often- times, a pointed bullet, moving at a high rate of speed, will in its perforation make skin openings that cannot by their size alone be distinguished the one from the other. Again, if the point of entrance is over a surface of bone but a little beneath the skin, as, for instance, on the chin or over a rib, and especially if the shot has been fired at short range, the extent of laceration will be very great; and on the other hand, if the ball in its course shatters a bone just before going out, or carries along with it a quantity of crushed and separated tissue, the amount of skin-tearing will be much in excess of that which otherwise would have occurred. The size of the primary wound will also be decidedly affected by the obli- quity of the angle of entrance, a large degree of which will cause raising of the skin and consequent bevelling of the orifice. After a few days, when separation of the slough has taken place, the entrance wound will usually be as large or larger than that of exit, especially when the injury has been caused by the passage of a round ball. When the shot has been fired at very close range, and has struck an uncovered part of the body, the entrance wound may often be recognized by the powder staining around about it, though such evidence is not as likely to be had at the present time as for- merly, since the modern improved powder is so much more thoroughly burned up at the time of its explosion. Multiple Wounds are often met with, and may be due to several shots or to a single one. When to several, these may all have been inflicted at once— as from the bursting of a shell or of a “ spherical case,” or from volley firing— or they may have been received at different times; and when due to a single shot, they may be consequent upon the repeated passing in and out of the same ball, as in traversing both upper and lower extremities, or the forearm, Fig. 245. Fig. 246. Interior view of frontal bone represented in Fig. 245. arm, and chest, or may depend upon the splitting of the bullet, either before entering the body, or by contact with a ridge or edge of bone. Not infre- quently, the fact that the existing three, four, or more wounds are due to the same shot, can be ascertained only by placing the several parts of the body in