AMPUTATION FOR GANGRENE. 297 supply the want of this, even in isolated places. Swathing the part in cotton, and then enveloping the whole with a rubber or oil-silk sheath, so as to control the flow of water, is a plan that secures the object almost as well as immersion, and is far more convenient. With such an arrangement, a constant stream of water can be supplied at a still higher temperature, such as 105° or 106° Fahr. This apparatus will both exclude the atmosphere and keep the tempera- ture uniform. We owe the introduction of this method to German sur- geons, and in this country to the earnest recommendation of Professor Frank H. Hamilton. Amputation for Gangrene. The question of amputation for the relief of gangrene is one that has given rise to a great deal of discussion. It has long been known, from ample trial, that if it is practised during the progress of the disease, it is very likely to be fatal. That this should be so, might he inferred from the fact that we cannot always, nor even generally, know the site of the cause that is pro- ducing the gangrene, and when we add to this the depressing influences arising from the septicsemic condition, we can very well believe that the patient would succumb to so severe an operation as amputation. When the red line has formed, the constitution almost surely exhibits an immediate and marked elevation of its powers. Moreover, the capacity of the stump to heal is much insured by the very vascularity developed by nature in throw- ing off the dead tissue. The experience of surgeons then has declared itself in favor of the practice of waiting until nature has thoroughly arrested the progress of the disease. Neither are they in haste to make the knife follow her declaration of the arrest, until the abundant exudate becomes in itself a depressing condition. Put although this rule has so large an application, there are conditions which tax the judgment of the surgeon to the utmost. These are chiefly seen in the form of gangrene which originates from severe traumatic causes. Such cases in their nature follow no rule. A foot may be crushed without any injury to the leg, and the gangrene would be expected to extend to the extent of the injury. But it may not be arrested at this point. We may find that it is spreading with rapidity into the uninjured parts above. It is obvious here that the gangrene is self-propagated. The exudates extruded into the connective tissue produce the severe constitutional symptoms inci- dent to gangrene, and the patient is in danger of rapidly succumbing to the septicsemic process. Under such circumstances, amputation must be per- formed sufficiently far from the dying tissue to cut off the cause which now creates the gangrene. Again, we may have the whole leg and foot hurt by some severe pressure, like that of a heavy stone, or wheel, passing over it, when there are some parts injured more severely than others. Gangrene may originate in the foot, and afterwards suddenly appear upon the leg at some point that had received a severer injury than the intermediate parts. In such a case, the whole of this tissue is almost surely destined to become gangrenous. This immense mass of necrosed fluid lying in tissue still capable of absorption will determine almost necessarily a fatal prognosis. In such a condition as this, expectation of a red line forming is nearly futile, and amputation is immediately demanded. Of the great surgeons of the past, Larrey was prominent in urging this practice. But if a high fever has supervened, it is very doubtful whether amputation is the proper expe- dient. The writer has been twice disappointed in amputating the thigh