DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 686 integument over these parts soon follows, and through the openings large quantities of fetid pus are discharged. Lym'phangeitis and lymphadenitis are marked features in nearly all forms of malignant cellulitis. The lymphatics as well as the veins carry the poison. The poisonous matter inflames the lining membrane of these channels, and may produce coagulation of their contents. In some cases it is intercepted by the lymph glands, and produces an inflammation which rapidly destroys them. From the onset of the disease, the constitutional symptoms are well marked and violent. The poisoning of the blood is evidenced by chills and rigors, which are rarely repeated after the first day—the disease in this respect differ- ing from ordinary pyaemia, which is usually attended by chills during the whole coui'se of the affection. The chills are followed by high fever, the temperature rapidly rising to 104° F. or 106° F., or even higher. There is often frontal and lumbar pain, and pain in the limbs also. The eyes are suffused, the expression of the face is one of deep anxiety, and the tongue is dry and coated with a brown fur. Billroth says that the tongue is sometimes as hard as wood. In the worst cases there is delirium. The urine is scanty and high-colored, and contains albumen. The patient sinks into a typhoid condition, is apa- thetic, and unless possessed of sufficient vitality to overcome the effects of the poison, may succumb to the disease in from three to ten days from its commencement. Although a large majority of patients afflicted with malignant cellulitis die, there are cases where the local inflammation is the principal element, the lymphatic glands having intercepted most of the poison. In such cases the constitutional as well as the local symptoms are much milder, though the in- flammation in the cellular tissue of the diseased limb passes through all the phases previously described, and the patient recovers with the loss of a finger, or perhaps of the hand and forearm as well. On post-mortem examination, the liver will he found softened and filled with blood. The spleen is very friable and enlarged, and infarcts may be found in it. There are no collections of pus, such as are found in pyaemia. Treatment.—As soon as the wound is made, it should be washed thoroughly and sucked by the patient. A little nitric acid or pure carbolic acid may then be applied, so as to cover every part of the wound and neighboring in- tegument, and the wounded limb should be suspended in a sling and covered with charcoal poultices. A grain or two of opium and from twenty to thirty grains of quinine should be given as soon as possible after the injury. When the cellulitis is fully developed—that is to say, when the wounded extremity is swollen and painful, and red lines have begun to show on the hand and forearm—a free incision should be made through the wound down to the bone, extending at least half an inch above and below. When suppuration occurs, other incisions also should be made in various parts of the forearm and arm, through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue to the muscles, so as to afford exit to the pus and other inflammatory formations, and thus diminish the tension in the swollen limb. The charcoal poultices previously recom- mended are still to be used, enveloping the limb from the shoulder to the tips of the fingers; the limb is then placed on a pillow, and opium and quinine again administered. If the charcoal cannot be had for the poultices, clay, linseed meal, or bran will be found to answer well as substitutes. Stimulants may be given ad libitum. If the stomach fails to retain them they may be injected, well diluted, into the rectum. The second form of malignant cellulitis arises from wounds or bites of the rattlesnake, cobra di capello, tarantula, scorpion, etc., and other reptiles and