POPLITEAL BURSvE. 721 and the external lateral ligament. Thus, of the six popliteal bursae, one always communicates with the joint (the sub-popliteus); one generally does so (the gastrocnemio-semimembranosus); while a third does so occasionally, viz: that between the external lateral ligament and the popliteus tendon. Any occupations which demand prolonged muscular exertion, such as those of porters, soldiers, etc., undoubtedly predispose to enlargement of these bursae, and in accordance with this fact they are of most frequent occurrence between the ages of twenty and thirty years. In a certain number of cases, the ex- citing cause also has clearly been over-exercise or a strain, but in most cases no special cause can be detected. Symptoms.—These tumors are indolent, firm, elastic, of an ovoid form, and regular in their outlines, although in certain rare instances they may be lobulated or bosselated. They are little or not at all mobile, according to most authorities (McEwen, Foucher), although Ericlisen gives mobility as a diagnostic mark. The superjacent skin is neither adherent nor discolored. They are usually of slow growth, and may lessen in bulk during rest in bed, but may rapidly develop, occasionally even in a few hours reaching the size of a hen’s egg. This latter mode of development has been only noticed after some violent effort or extreme over-exercise. Tenderness is rarely complained of, even on firm pressure. A certain amount of stiffness and of dull pain is usually felt. Some patients experience frequently recurring attacks of cramp-like pain in the calf-muscles, especially after walking. When suddenly developed, or when a chronic swelling becomes rapidly enlarged, some tenderness on pres- sure may be felt for a time, but soon the tumor resumes its ordinary indolent condition. Fluctuation, according to Foucher, can be readily detected unless the sac-walls are much thickened, or when over-distension exists. This fluc- tuation can rarely be detected in the extended, but usually quite readily in the flexed position of the knee. This is a diagnostic point of the greatest im- portance. The irregular, lobulated, or bosselated form, very rarely seen, is due to one or all of the following conditions. The tumor lying beneath the tendon may be constricted by it, especially when the muscle is tense; the bursal sac may be traversed by bridles, or partially divided into several compartments by incomplete partitions which render impossible its assuming the usual smooth ovoid form when distended by fluid; or its relations with the surrounding parts may be such as only to admit of easy distension at certain points. These tumors are ordinarily but slightly mobile, owing to their connection with the tendons. By the traction of the surrounding parts, a portion of the sac may become elongated, thus forming a pedicle, which will admit of these tumors changing their positions; again, actual rupture of the pedicle may occur, when a free unattached cyst will result. As to the frequency with which they communicate with the joint, Foucher1 shows that in 6 out of 12 of his cases, situated on the inner side of the popliteal space, the tumor was reducible; it was so in 1 out of 4 cases of those situated externally; while 2 out of 3 of the median cysts could, have their contents emptied into the articulation. These latter, Foucher thinks, may have been synovial hernise, although he expresses considerable doubt on this head. Joint effusion most commonly accompanies the median cysts, although not restricted to this class of cases. Foucher points out that error may arise from the appa- rent disappearance of the tumor when the joint is flexed; this can be avoided by deep pressure with the fingers, when the tumor, if not really emptied of its contents, can always be detected by careful manipulation. Coincident effu- 1 Archives Gen. de Medecine, 1856. VOL. II.—46