STRANGULATION OF PARTS BRUSH-BURN. 9 puration or sloughing has taken place, the patient will need a supporting treatment, and iron, quinine, and nutritious food should be given. At all times, when suffering is great, opium or some other anodyne should be ad- ministered, to allay pain and produce sleep. Contusions of internal organs are usually serious and dangerous injuries, the symptoms and treatment of which will be considered in other portions of the work. Strangulation of Parts. When a cord or tourniquet tightly encircles a portion of the body, cutting off all circulation through the bloodvessels, the part below the seat of con- striction dies. Surgeons frequently employ this method of strangulation in getting rid of hemorrhoids, vascular tumors, etc. It is not necessary, how- ever, in order to kill the part, that the cord should he tight enough to cut off all circulation; if it simply interferes with it, greatly lessening the arterial supply or preventing venous return, death of the part may equally follow, but it is effected by a slower and more painful process. The cases which come under the observation of the surgeon are generally those of partial constric- tion, as where a ring has been accidentally slipped over the wrong finger, which it encircles too tightly ; or where a bandage has been unskilfully ap- plied to a limb; or, as in hernia, where the bowel escapes through a small opening in the abdominal wall, and strangulation of the intestine is the con- sequence. The first effect of this partial constriction is accumulation of venous blood in the vessels of the part, and effusion of the watery portions of the blood into the surrounding parenchyma. At first the part looks glossy and cedematous; obstruction to venous return continuing, inflammation sets in; the vessels become still more over-distended; complete stagnation of blood takes place; vitality ceases ; and gangrene ensues. The part changes its appearance, becoming mottled, purplish, and finally black in color. Tying a string around the penis, as has been stupidly done by nurses to prevent children from wetting their beds, or slipping a ring over the penis, has frequently caused mortification of the organ, and sometimes the death of the patient. Treatment of Strangulation.—The treatment is of course to remove the source of constriction as soon as possible. A grooved director can generally be passed under a ring, and by means of a file or cutting-pliers this can be divided and removed. Contracting the penis or finger by the application of ice, will sometimes enable the surgeon to get the ring off; or by wrapping a silk thread tightly around the finger from its point to the ring, slipping the free end of the thread under the ring by means of a needle, and then slowly unwrapping the cord, the ring will be made to follow. Brush-Burn. Mr. Erichsen has employed this name for a peculiar kind of contused wound, made by severe friction of some portion of the surface of the body. It is frequently caused by the belting or other parts of machinery in rapid motion, coming in contact with the body; or by a rope, which an individual is holding, passing with great velocity through his closed hand. I have seen an extensive “brush-burn” produced on the buttocks and back of a boy, who slipped from his sled while sliding or “coasting” rapidly down a steep hill