THE EFFECTS OF HEAT 250 Medical literature contains many curious cases illustrating the peculiar freaks of lightning; for instance, Dr. Wilks has reported the following in- teresting and remarkable case of lightning-stroke:— A laborer was standing under a willow tree when it was struck ; the tree was par- tially stripped of its bark, and the man was literally taken out of his boots ; the latter, although greatly torn and twisted, were left at the foot of the tree, while the man was thrown some six feet away. Although he had been well clothed before the accident, he was, when found, quite naked; his clothing was torn completely into shreds; his watch and chain, from the effects of heat, were almost destroyed ; his limbs presented serious burns and lacerated wounds ; one leg had sustained a compound comminuted fracture, and there was also a compound fracture of the os calcis on the opposite side. The man was, however, conscious, and finally recovered. From the fact that the man’s clothes were thoroughly soaked by the rain, they probably conducted the lightning, and thus averted a fatal result. It is highly probable that the general introduction of electricity as a motive power, and its use for illuminating and other purposes, will make common a class of injuries hitherto comparatively unknown. Indeed, severe deaths from this novel source have already been chronicled, identical with those hitherto only known as resulting from “lightning stroke” itself. Numerous accidents have occurred from using the electric lamp, for if an attendant touches one of the candles, or the conducting wire, while the current is on, the result is generally disastrous to himself. Other accidents arise from in- evitable carelessness, and from employing persons who are unskilled and unacquainted with the danger which is incurred in the careless handling of the necessary appliances associated with the powerful batteries: deaths have thus resulted, and will doubtless continue to occur with increasing fre- quency. It is certainly desirable, and may reasonably be expected, that more at- tention should be given by inventors to secure not only the most brilliant, but also at the same time the most thoroughly safe electric lamp. The following case illustrates a now common form of accident:— A man employed in one of the large car shops of Philadelphia, while carrying a bar of iron across his shoulder, accidentally brought the metal in contact with the wire which supplied the electric light used in illuminating the shop; he thus received a very heavy charge of electricity, which, although producing no external manifestations, such as a burn or contusion, was sufficiently strong to throw him directly forward several yards from the spot, knocking him down, and causing unconsciousness for more than an hour; some transient paralysis followed, but the man made a good recovery. A stoker on board the Russian yacht Lividia, when holding an electric lamp, seized the brass rod which runs around the lamp, and at the same time touched the wire which supplied the current of electricity with his other hand; the powerful shock sent directly across his chest caused instant death. Treatment of Lightning Stroke.—Of the appropriate treatment for lightning stroke, it need only be said that, when shock exists, it demands immediate attention, and should be treated as shock arising from other injuries. Hypodermic injections of morphia may be used, and other cardiac stimulants in guarded doses, especially strong coffee. The prognosis of the palsies of lightning stroke is, as often observed, rather favorable than otherwise. During the unconscious stage, free bleedings have been recom- mended ; but in fact the treatment of these injuries should be conducted upon general surgical principles. The burns of lightning-stroke, which are often detached in their character, from the electrical fluid passing to and from metallic substances in the clothing, are treated as ordinary burns, and experience has shown that the healing process in these cases is in no wise different from that observed in burns from other sources.