vol. ii.—43 (673) DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. BY ■*» JOSEPH W. HOWE, M.D., CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN BELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE, NEW YORK. An “atmosphere of areolar tissue” envelops all the organs, as well as the component elements of each organ. As the tela cellulosa, it extends in one continuous subcutaneous layer from head to foot, sending in prolongations which support, strengthen, and give shape and consistency to every part. A tissue like this, having so unusual a dissemination, and having such close relations to bloodvessels, nerves and lymphatics which traverse its meshes, must -necessarily be the seat of varied and complex pathological phenomena, interesting alike to the student and practitioner. Yet, strange to say, there is nowhere any practical classification which might serve as a guide in the investigation of such affections. Some of the diseases of the areolar tissue are described in surgical works under the head of abscess, which is only one of many equally important results of inflammation of this tissue. Others receive a passing mention when they form connecting links between morbid changes in neighboring organs; and in a few instances the affections are designated by names which have little or no relation to the anatomical site of the disease concerned, or to the pathological changes which take place. The limitations of this article necessarily exclude many diseases of the cellular tissue which come under the care of the physician and gynaecologist; and also curtail to some extent the completeness of description which would be necessary in a work devoted solely to the subject. The diseases of the cellular tissue which belong to the domain of Surgery may be advantageously classified as follows:— (1) Inflammation of the cellular tissue, which may be either simple or malignant. The former may be either diffused or circumscribed; the latter is always diffused. The circumscribed varieties of cellulitis simplex are: (a) Peri-venous Cellulitis; (b) Peri-arthritic Cellulitis; (c) Ischio-rectal Cel- lulitis; (d) Peri-urethral Cellulitis; (e) Peri-phalangeal Cellulitis; (f) Peri- cecal Cellulitis; and (g) Orbital Cellulitis. (2) Gangrenous Cellulitis. (3) Phlegmonous Erysipelas. (4) Hypertrophy (Myxoedema). (5) Atrophy. (6) Tumors of the Cellular Tissue. (7) Parasitic Affections of the Cellular Tissue. Gangrenous cellulitis or carbuncle, phlegmonous erysipelas, and tumors of the cellular tissue, are described 'in other articles, and will not therefore be touched upon here.