294 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. persists. The very exudate which is extruded into the tissue around the carbuncle, or in hospital gangrene, becomes a poison which may destroy the life of the cell. Pushed along the connective tissue unrestrained by any power of organization or coagulation, the cell is destroyed by its presence. Chemical substances by their direct action will produce gangrene in the tis- sues. Sudden heat, as in a burn, or excessive cold, will instantly destroy cell life. Sudden arrest of the circulation, as in the ligation of an artery, tight bandaging, or severe and constant pressure, illustrate some of the com- mon causes of gangrene. Besides these, we have arrest of circulation caused by the inflammatory process, where the stasis has become perfect over a con- siderable portion of tissue, thus practically cutting off nutriment from the cell. Among the causes of gangrene must be enumerated deficient nerve power. Paralytics are special sufferers. Still the condition is so complicated with another well-known cause, that it is difficult to know how far to the mere diminution of nerve force the gangrenous result may be attributed. In these subjects protracted pressure is almost sure to be brought upon special points, and this we know to be a fruitful cause of sloughing. Symptoms of Gangrene. The symptoms which mark the invasion of gangrene present to us a wide range of activity, which obviously depends upon the amount of absorption of the diseased products combined with the activity of the inflammatory pro- cess. To this we must add as above stated a difference of degree in the intensity of the poison. When the gangrene arises from an inflammatory cause, the danger is largely to be measured by the extent of surface and the character of the tissue invaded. When in addition to gangrene of the skin we have a joint like the ankle opened into, the absorption of poisonous exu- dates is far more rapid. The inflammatory fever now readily changes to one of a typhoid type. The pulse, which was full and strong, becomes small and feeble, and more rapid. The surface, which was hot and perhaps dry, be- comes cool and clammy. The skin assumes a pallid hue. The tongue is dry, with dark fur, the teeth covered more or less with sordes, respiration is hur- ried and sighing. The nervous system is utterly prostrate, as shown by a wandering mind, subsultus tendinum, dorsal decubitus, tympanitic abdomen, with involuntary discharges, and retention of urine. The local symptoms consist of gradually occurring changes mai'ked by a diminution of sensation and of bodily temperature. Immediately preceding the occurrence of gangrene, pain is apt to be severe, and the color is an intense red. But with the diminution of pain the color becomes darker, then pur- ple, then black, or of an ashen hue. Step by step with the other symptoms, decomposition goes on, accompanied with a fetor which is characteristic, and, which, when once recognized, will always be recollected. Arrest of Gangrene. When gangrene is about to cease its progress, the change in appearance commences slowly, somewhere in the doubtful, debatable space between that which is known to be living and that which is known to be dead. An alter- ation in -color and appearance marks a change in the pathological condition. The exudate, which, during its progress, has been incapable of organization, begins to cut off the dead from the living by filling the areolar spaces and establishing a line of circumvallation. It has been said that there is no