SYPHILIS. 482 position of a symptom only. Early syphilitic disease of the liver shows itself either in the form of simple hypertrophy of this organ, or of hypertrophy accompanied by icterus, or pain, or both of these symptoms. It occurs in both sexes and at all ages, and usually shows itself from six weeks to two months subsequent to infection. The liver becomes enlarged to a very con- siderable degree, the entire organ being equally affected, and its surface remaining smooth and indurated. The average duration of the hypertrophy is from two and a half to three and a half months. In all reported cases which have been followed up, complete restoration of the liver to its normal volume has resulted. Icterus is noticed in most cases of early syphilitic hepatic disease, but the cause of this symptom has not been satisfactorily explained. Jullien1 believes it to be due to a catarrh of the bile-ducts, propagated from the gastro-intestinal canal, while Delavarenne attributes it to an infiltration of embryonic elements, due to the direct influence of the syphilitic poison, and giving rise to a more or less complete closure of the lumen of the ducts. In connection with the de- posit of coloring matter in the skin, the conjunctiva, and the urine, other symptoms show themselves, such as gastric disturbance, diminution of appe- tite, occasionally slight febrile reaction, and almost always a certain degree of malaise and headache. The occurrence of pain, which is usually experienced in connection with the hypertrophy of the liver accompanied by icterus, points to an inflamma- tory element in the morbid process. Sometimes discomfort alone is first observed, as a feeling of weight in the hypogastrium, soon developing into pain; at other times the pain, either spontaneous-—when it is dull, and often intermittent—or provoked, as by percussion or manipulation—when it is acute—is observed from the beginning. The concomitant symptoms of early syphilitic hypertrophy of the liver are important from a diagnostic point of view. Mucous patches of the throat, with erythematous or papular cutaneous lesions, are invariably found along with the hepatic disturbance. The icterus runs its course under treatment in about six weeks, but the hypertrophy does not ordinarily disappear in less than three months. The affection in itself is not grave, but it is considered to forebode a severe attack of syphilis, and is apt to recur subsequently in the form of more serious hepatic trouble. The treatment is that of syphilis generally. Disturbances of the Urinary Function.—Albuminuria has been noted in several cases as occurring in connection with early syphilis,2 but, with per- haps occasional exceptions, the connection between the kidney affection and the constitutional disease has not been demonstrated. Glycosuria, however, has been established as one of the accompanying symptoms of early syphilis, a number of cases having been reported3 where this symptom occurred concomitantly with early syphilitic eruptions, and disappeared, together with the skin lesions, under anti-syphilitic treatment. Disturbances of the Uterine Functions.—These are in many respects analogous to the disturbances to which ordinary ansemia gives rise in women, 1 Op. cit., p. 652. 2 Guiol, Essai sur l’Albuminurie Syphilitique (Thfese de Paris, 1867) ; Gailleton, Albuminurie Sypliilitique co'incidente avec des accidents secondaires (Giornale Italianodelle Malattie Yeneree, t. ii. p. 95, 1869). 3 Chiefly by Dub, of Prague (Prager Vierteljahrs. f. d. prakt. Heilk., 1863) ; Seegen (Der Diabetes mellitus auf Grundlage zahlreicher Beobachtungen. Berlin, 1875) ; and Servantie (Des Rapports du Diabfete et de la Syphilis. These de Paris, 1876).