499 THE PUSTULAR SYPHILODERM. 1 See Duliring’s Atlas, PI. l. appear in a variety of forms, the lesions of which differ in size, shape, num- ber, distribution, and other features. The pustules vary greatly in size, shape, and form. They may he pin-head or finger-nail sized, circular, ovalish, or irregular, acuminated, rounded, or flat. They may be situated on indurated papular bases, or surrounded by an extensive areola, in which case they are but little elevated above the level of the surface. They may be few or numerous, and are apt to be disseminated over the surface without regularity of distribution. From the decided incli- nation to crust which the larger pustules manifest early in their course, they have been termed “ pustulo-crustaceous lesions.” The crusts usually begin to form shortly after the lesions manifest themselves, but sometimes they form simultaneously with the pustules. As a rule, the larger the pustule, the sooner will the process of crusting begin. The crusts vary in color from yellow to brown, or even black, and when of any size and depth incline to assume an olive-greenish hue. Beneath the recent crust there always exists an ulcer. This may be superficial or deep, according to the general character of the primary lesion. The edges are usually sharply defined, giving the lesion a punched-out appearance. The fact of this ulcerative condition existing only in the lesions of syphilis, should be borne in mind when endeavoring to make a diagnosis in doubtful cases. If a doubtful crust is lifted with a pin or other instrument, and an excoriated surface only is found beneath, the chances are in favor of the presence of a non-syphilitic lesion. But if, on lifting the crust, au ulcer is seen with its base covered with an abundant, grayish, yellowish, or greenish, puriform secretion, the lesion is in all probability syphilitic. The pustular lesions are followed by pigmentation, and usually by cicatrices. They may occur early or late in the disease. When early, they are of more serious significance. The Small Acuminated Pustular Syphiloderm (Miliary Syphiloderm.).— In this variety of the pustular syphiloderm the pustules are millet-seed sized, raised above the level of the skin, and seated upon minute, reddish, papular elevations, and contain a very small quantity of purulent fluid. When they dry, small yellowish crusts fall off, leaving a slight desquamative exfoliation in the form of a ring, the “collerette” of the French. The hair follicles are commonly involved, the hairs penetrating through the centres of the lesions. The eruption is usually abundant, the pustules existing in great numbers, discretely or confluently, and irregularly disseminated in groups over various lesions. Sometimes they are arranged in circles or segments of circles. When the eruption appears for the first time it generally covers a large sur- face, but occurring as a relapse it may be localized. The arms, thighs, chest, and back are favorite localities. Various stages of the eruption, together with large and small papules, and sometimes miliary vesicles, are observed in connection with the lesions under consideration. The miliary pustular syphiloderm may be one of the earliest skin manifestations of syphilis, occur- ring six weeks after the initial lesion, and accompanied with fever and other general symptoms; or it may be seen as a later though still early manifesta- tion. Relapses may occur, and the lesions as they disappear leave deep pig- ment stains and pitted depressions which are slowly effaced. The diagnosis is not difficult. The eruption does not usually occur alone, but is generally accompanied by other symptoms of syphilis.1 Large Acuminated Pustular Syphiloderm.—This is the acneiform syphi- loderm of some writers, and is characterized by the appearance of pointed