348 GONORRHOEA. patients being women), illustrating the various points already mentioned ; the chief features of this form of joint-affection are the occurrence of pain and swelling, which always begin and remain most marked exactly at the interarticular line, the presence of crackling, and the liability to anchylosis if the joint be not fixed early.”1 2 * * Ordinary rheumatism is the only disease for which this form of joint affection is likely to be mistaken. The diagnosis should be based upon the following points which, for convenience sake, may be tabulated thus:— Gonorrhceal Rheumatism. Associated with urethritis. Very infrequent in women. Constitutional symptoms transient and not severe. Very little fever. No sweating. Urine unaltered. Often associated with sclerotitis, bursitis, and teno-synovitis. Cardiac lesions rare.5 Inflammation remains fixed; involves one or a few joints. Local pains rather less than in true rheumatism. Effused fluid is absorbed very slowly. Tendency to hydrarthrosis after acute stage has passed. Great tendency to relapse during sub- sequent gonorrhoeas. Anti-rheumatic remedies are unavail- ing. Ordinary Rheumatism. Not associated with urethritis. Not very rare in women. Constitutional symptoms marked and prolonged. High fever. Profuse sweating. Urine high-colored and loaded with urates. Not complicated with sclerotitis, bur- sitis, or teno-synovitis. Cardiac lesions frequent. Inflammation jumps from one joint to another, involving many. Pains always severe. Effused fluid absorbed with compara- tive rapidity. No tendency to chronic hydrarthrosis. Relapses have no association with ure- thral conditions. Anti-rheumatic remedies are evidently useful. The sciatica which is described as often associated with gonorrhoeal rheu- matism, is in all probability a symptom of involvement of the hip-joint, although here, as in many other cases, the diagnosis between commencing arthritic trouble and an inflammation of the fibrous sheath of the nerve is well nigh impossible. The varieties of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, other than that described, have been classified into the arthritic, in which the swelling, instead of depending upon the presence of effusion into the synovial sac, or hydrarthrosis, is due to a thickening of the capsular and subcutaneous tissues of the articulation; the arthralgic, in which the swelling and inflammation are slight, and the pain is rather neuralgic in character ; and the “ knotty, or pseudo-gouty,” in which the phalangeal joints become enlarged and distorted. The first of these has always, in my experience, been preceded by a synovial effusion, and has been the result of protracted continuance of the joint trouble. I have never met with the last variety, and must be permitted to doubt its existence as a complication of gonorrhoea. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia and Gonorrhieal Conjunctivitis.—Associated with these joint troubles in many cases, or occasionally occurring as the only 1 London Medical Record, October 15, 1881. 2 Dr. Pfuhl reports (Deutsche Zeitschrift fur pract. Med., No. 50, 1878) seventeen reliable cases of endocarditis following gonorrhoea, and adds one to the number. Dr. Cianciosi also records a similar case (Bullet, dell. Scienz. Med., Sept. 1880). Examples of gonorrhoeal endocarditis have also been noted by La Cassagne, Desnos, Marty, and Baudin.