110 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS ARROW WOUNDS. appear too weak, and likely to break, a second loop should be cast around the head by means of another twister, before traction is made. Any amount of force may be applied by fastening both twisters to an inflexible rod, one end of which rests upon a block placed upon the patient’s body, and then using this rod as a lever of the second order. Force is thus applied evenly and Fig. 229. Application of wire loop to arrow head embedded in hone ; the loop is adjusted by aid of the wire twister and porte-miche. without jerking. The ecraseur and wire cable used for crushing piles, or two catheters soldered together, may be used instead of the twister, though this can be made by any blacksmith. I think, however, that the forceps which I have devised for extracting arrows, will be found more convenient in all cases than any arrangement of loops. The instrument is represented in Fig. 230. The jaws are flat, and are Fig. 230. bent at right angles to the handle, and they form, •when closed, an elliptical loop adapted to embrace the head as a dagger is embraced by its sheatb. For convenience and certainty of passing these forceps down to the arrow head, the face of the jaws, close to their edges, is grooved so as to fit and slide along the round arrow shaft, which is thus used as a director. The joint is made like that of a dentist’s forceps, so as to allow of any amount of twisting without bending, and, in order to make the instrument still stronger as a twister, one of the handles is mortised, and into this the other handle is made to fit, being tenon-shaped through nearly its whole length. The handles are eight inches long to the fulcrum, and are made very strong in themselves as well as by their mortise and tenon construction. From the tip of the jaws to the ful- crum is two and a quarter inches. When the arrow shaft is in place, the instru- ment is slid down upon this as a director, until the head is reached, when the jaws are opened, and made to grasp the head by its edges, encircling it almost like a loop. The handles having been then tied together for security, a gentle but decided twist will unseat the arrow head as easily as a dentist twists out a bicuspid tooth. If the head is not lodged in bone, the forceps are passed, closed, beyond its point, and the jaws are used as a loop to catch the latter without being opened at all.