244 THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. can be readily kept in position. In the hundreds of cases in which carbolic acid has been thus used at the Pennsylvania Hospital, no instance of poison- ing by its absorption has been noticed. It is well to bear in mind that only one part of a burned patient should be exposed and dressed at a time, in order to avoid surface chilling; and that the greatest precaution should be used not to tear away any burned portion of clothing which adheres to the injured surfaces, lest the cuticle should be also torn off. A few applications of the carbolized oil or cosmoline will quickly cause a separation of any attached portions of clothing. Vesicles or bull* should not be broken, but may be punctured at their lowest point in order to prevent them from bursting ; their contents should then be very gently pressed out, or allowed to slowly drain off, and care should be taken that the cuticle is not afterwards rubbed off, as it affords the very best covering for the excoriated surface. Dressings as a rule need not be changed oftener than every second, third, or even every fourth day, unless the amount of suppuration is very great, or the odor quite marked. When the gangrenous parts have been thrown off by the sloughing process, the ulcerated surfaces beneath are usually soon covered with florid granulations, which may require restraint by astringent applications, and compression by means of adhesive plaster. If, in a person of a weak constitution, the granu- lations should be pale and weak, a stimulating plan of treatment should be adopted. In the treatment of burns and scalds, however, of all kinds and of every degree, from first to last, in the young as well as in those advanced in years, the general symptomatic treatment and the local use of carbolized olive oil or cosmoline, have secured at the Pennsylvania Hospital, under all circumstances and conditions, the most satisfactory results. During the healing of the ulcerated surfaces about the flexures of the joints, between the fingers, about the face, neck, etc., much good can be accom- plished, and subsequent deformity may often be avoided, by keeping the various parts carefully separated and in appropriate position, either by fixa- tion upon splints, or by appropriately adapted mechanical appliances. Many ulcers from burns which formerly were found very indolent, or from their position and size could not be made to cicatrize, and were indeed deemed incurable, are now rendered amenable to treatment through the agency of skin-grafting ; or even, in some instances, by the method of transplantation of skin recommended by Wolfe. Innumerable are the remedies which have been from time to time advo- cated for the local treatment of burns and scalds ; those, however, which have been found most beneficial are such as act more especially as protective cover- ings by excluding atmospheric air, which is always irritating to an excoriated or inflamed skin. Among them may be mentioned flour, starch, oxide or carbonate of zinc, cotton wadding, fixed oils, white lead paint, etc. Cold water dressings are most soothing; yet cold is only applicable to limited por- tions of the body. Flour is very frequently used in bunis, and as it is so easily obtained, forms a common household remedy ; it should be dusted over the burned or scalded parts not only freely but uniformly, so as to form a soft, thick, and soothing covering to the surface. The parts should next be enveloped in layers of cotton batting, the application of a roller bandage then keeping the dressings in position ; a crust soon forms with the serum which exudes from the excoriated cuticle, and this ordinarily should not be removed until a separation is produced by the discharge itself; or, if desired sooner, the dried crusts may be moistened and softened by the application of olive oil, the white of eggs, or of a thin, soft, flaxseed poultice. After this the ex- posed surfaces may be dressed with any emollient dressing. Carron oil, which is even yet extensively used all over the world, consists of equal