176 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. as stated by Roser, be regarded as indicative of a superficial brain lesion, the swelling following deeper injuries preventing such discharge. That the missile has lodged, may at times be ascertained by exploration of the wound, or even, in rare cases, by the detection of an elevation of bone on the opposite side of the head, the ball having partially perforated from within outward at such a point; but usually it is, during life, a matter of conjecture simply, only a single wound existing, and there being no evidence of the missile having rebounded or having been deflected after producing the fracture. Prognosis.—The prognosis of these injuries, though much affected by the nature of the wound, is always grave; not because of the fracture itself, for a broken skull-bone heals as readily as any other, but because of associated lesions and resulting complications. Aside from hemorrhage from a lacerated sinus or meningeal vessel, and actual cerebral damage, the danger is chiefly due to meningo-encephalitis, because of the nearness of the brain, and the facility with which it participates in the lesions of its coverings. This meningo-encephalitis may be developed at an early period, or, as is more usual, after a number of days—particularly in the latter part of the second week—and is ordinarily, though not necessarily, associated with an open wound. Asa result, acute suppuration may take place, a cerebral abscess having been observed by Beck as early as the fifth day, though commonly the pus-collection is either not formed, or does not produce any symptoms, until after three, four, or five weeks. When lodgment of a foreign substance has occurred, and the foreign body remains, it may prove the developing cause of suppurative brain inflammation even years after apparent recovery has taken place. In the Crimean war, 74 per cent, of the cases of cranial in- jury proved fatal (711 out of 961), and during our late war the mortality-rate was 59.2 per cent. (2514 out of 4243 cases the results of which were ascer- tained). Fractures of the internal table alone proved fatal in nineteen out of twenty cases (95 per cent.), penetrating fractures in 85.5 per cent. (402 out of 470 cases), and perforating fractures in 80 per cent. (56 out of 70 cases). In civil life, when the injury has been inflicted by a shot-gun charge at short range, with result- ing extensive local destruction, the probabilities of a fatal issue are of course very great; but even in such a case, and much more so in a non-penetrating pistol-ball wound, recovery is decidedly more likely to take place than in military practice. For this there are various reasons, such as the earlier and more constant attention that can be given in civil practice; the generally better hygienic surroundings ; the less velocity of the vulnerating body, and consequent less damage to the brain; and, not least, the, as a rule, less advanced age of the patient. Young adults bear these injuries better than those in middle or advanced life, and children, who are often the subjects of accidents of this kind, decidedly better yet; and this has been especially noticed with reference to cases of splintering and depression of the internal table. Injuries of the base are much more dangerous than those of the vault, but it would appear from Lidell’s investigations that they “prove mortal much less frequently than heretofore has generally been supposed”—35 out of 137 patients having more or less perfectly recovered, and two or three of these “so completely as to re-enlist.” It is generally held, with Guthrie, that a wound of the anterior part of the head is more likely to cause death than one of the posterior. But that such is the fact is by no means certain. In the 316 cases of penetration and lodgment tabulated and analyzed by H. R. Wharton, of which 279 were instances of gunshot injury, the relative mortality of.