LOCAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INCISED WOUNDS. 13 Pain of Incised Wounds.—The pain attending an incised wound varies in its nature and degree, according to the position of the wound and the tissue wounded. Some portions of the body, such as the skin of the face and lingers, orifices of the mucous tracts, periosteum, or tense tendons, are far more sensi- tive than the skin of the back or buttocks, the bones, and the fasciae. The sensibility of the patient has likewise much to do with the degree of pain experienced, as has the condition of the nervous system at the time at which the wound is received. Not only may one subject of an operation be far more sensitive than another, but the same person may feel pain more acutely at one than at another time, the general condition of the physical powers, and more particularly of the nervous system, greatly influencing sensibility. Unexpected or unseen wounds, or wounds received during drunkenness, or when the mind is intent on other things, as in the excitement of battle, are often unfelt, or felt but slightly; whereas when the mind of a patient is fixed upon the performance of an operation, the evil influence of anticipation aggravates his suffering. Local and Constitutional Effects of Incised Wounds. The local effects of a simple incised wound, in a healthy subject, may extend little beyond the breach of surface, and the slight pain and bleeding which attend the injury. The constitutional effects may he so slight as to he un- observed. In a general way, however, local as well as constitutional effects show themselves, and these are greatly influenced by the extent of the wound, the general condition of the patient, and the treatment to which the injured part and the patient have been subjected. Local Effects.—The local effects of a wound are best studied in a deep, incised cut, which has passed through skin, subcutaneous fat, and fascia. The wound, directly after its infliction, will gape, and, after the lapse of but a brief interval of time, this gaping will increase, so that the subcutaneous fat will appear as if it were being pressed out of its position, and as if the divided edge of true skin were retracting from it, and becoming everted. Within an hour or an hour and a half, the edges of the wound will be seen to be swollen and slightly rerf, from increased vascularity, and, where the con- nective tissue of the wounded part is loose—as in the eyelid or the male genital organs—puffed up and oedema.tous. To the patient* the part will feel hot and stiff, and it will be the seat of a dull, aching, or burning pain. The edges of the wound will also probably be more sensitive, the amount of pain depending much upon the tension of the parts, and upon the treatment to which they have been subjected. If the edges of the wound have been stitched together, and the parts are much swollen and oedematous, there will be tension upon the wound, and a disposition to separate and gape. In a healthy sub- ject, however, when repair goes on well, all these local phenomena will sub- side and disappear in the course of two, three, or four days, according to the rapidity and perfection of the healing process, and a cure will then take place. But should the local phenomena above described be more persistent, increase in severity, spread beyond the margins of the wound into surrounding parts, or alter in character for the worse, what has been a physiological, reparative process will pass into a pathological or diseased one, and the parts will then be said to be “inflamed.”1 See vol. i. p. 65.