GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 134 Hemorrhage not infrequently occurs in hospital gangrene, especially when the exudations are colloid in character, and if of considerable amount, the bleeding forms so important a feature of the case that some writers have de- scribed a special variety of the disease—the hemorrhagic. Hospital gangrene has an incubative stage of uncertain length, shorter in proportion to the after-severity of the attack. During this stage the wound ordinarily becomes dry, and the granulations perhaps oedematous, perhaps very vascular and irritable. Pain is always present from the start, and is usually a very important symptom, becoming not infrequently excruciating. High fever of typhoid character attends the severer and more acute cases. The temperature of the affected part is often but little elevated. The extent of the local destruction varies with the character of the attack, the con- dition of the patient, and the nature and thoroughness of the treatment. The connective tissues and the muscles rapidly melt down, while the tendons and ligaments resist for a considerable time. The larger nerves and blood- vessels do not readily yield, and have not infrequently been observed for days bridging over a chasm made by the destruction of muscles and fasciae ; and oftentimes they escape altogether. In the worst cases, even the cartilages and bones are eaten up, and Ollivier reports that he has seen a whole extre- mity destroyed within 48 hours. The milder attacks may spontaneously terminate in recovery, but usually a favorable result is secured only by pro- per treatment. The severer cases judiciously cared for are ordinarily cured in fair proportion, though in certain epidemics the mortality has been enor- mous, as high even as 80 per cent. Death, when it occurs, may be due to erysipelas (which has been known to attack one-third of the cases), to hemor- rhage, to pysemia, or to septicaemia. Hot so very seldom, the disease has been seen affecting one wound on a patient’s body, while another on the same person remained unattacked. Thus Thomson has reported a case of simultaneous wound of both thighs, in which, “ whilst the gangrene was ravaging the left thigh, the rapid cicatrization of the right proceeded uninterruptedly.” How is such a condition of things reconcilable with the theory of a constitutional origin of the disease? Erysipelas.—This affection is frequently seen associated with gunshot as with other wounds, occurring both in the simple and in the phlegmonous variety, and presenting its ordinary phenomena. The simple cutaneous form of the disease may appear early, but is often not developed until the healing of the wound is well advanced. When occurring in comparatively healthy subjects, it adds but little to the gravity of the case, merely, as a rule, delay- ing recovery. Phlegmouous Erysipelas (which oftentimes affects primarily the subcutane- ous connective tissue, and only secondarily involves the skin) is, on the other hand, a very serious complication, causing extensive destruction of tissue, and being, in a considerable proportion of cases, followed by death from exhaus- tion, or, more often, from blood-poisoning. Consequent upon either the influ- ence of outside organisms or septic material developed in the dead and dying tissues of the wound, phlegmonous erysipelas is commonly a hospital affec- tion, highly contagious and infectious, which may attack its subject early or late after the receipt of the injury. More likely of course to seize upon the weak and debilitated, its victims are often among the strongest and healthiest. Tetanus.—This most fatal of all the complications of gunshot injuries is, fortunately, of comparatively rare occurrence. Its cause is unknown. Usually regarded as consequent upon nerve injury, its symptoms being developed either