681 PERI-URETHRAL CELLULITIS. hazel-nut. It is painful on pressure, and there is also considerable pain during erection and micturition—the pain being centred over the hardened spot previously mentioned. Occasionally the cellulitis extends up and down the canal in the median line for an inch or two, the swelling occupying the me- dian line, and being symmetrical in its whole length. Suppuration is apt to occur in the majority of cases, though not as often as in cellulitis between the layers of the triangular ligament. In many instances a lump of inflam- matory exudation remains from one to three months, and is Anally absorbed without doing any special injury to the urethral canal. The second form of peri-urethral cellulitis is confined to the perineal por- tion of the urethra, between the layers of the triangular ligament. It often originates in the cellular tissue around Cowper’s glands, but it may start further back. The inflammation is much more extensive than in the first variety, on .account of the greater amount of cellular tissue involved, and its looser connections; and the disease generally ends in suppuration. It is sometimes the result of blows or falls on the perineum. It may also be caused by a small point of follicular ulceration behind a stricture. The ulcer gradually extends, piercing the urethral wall; as it progresses, its in- ternal orifice becomes occluded by plastic exudation, while the inflammation spreads rapidly in the cellular tissue between the layers of fascia. The symptoms, though well marked, are often attributed to other causes. There is pain in the perineum, more severe during micturition than at any other time; it may occupy one side or the other of the median line, and it extends to the inner side of the thigh and down to the anus. As in other forms of cellulitis, it is aggravated by pressure. As the disease progresses, a hard, well-defined swelling is found, generally on the right side of the median line ; this gradually extends until the perineum is equally distended on each side of the raphe, and a well-marked tumor formed. In some cases the exuda- tion is in sufficient quantity to close the urethral canal and cause retention of urine; or, if the pressure does not close the canal, it may cause ulceration of the urethra, and give exit to the pus in that way. This is a common occur- rence, especially in neglected cases, and the inevitable result is a urethral fis- tula, which, however, generally closes without any further surgical inter- ference than is mentioned hereafter. Treatment.—In both forms of peri-urethral cellulitis, the bowels should be kept free with mild laxatives. A mixture consisting of an ounce each of Epsom salts and cream of tartar to one pint of water, may be given in two- ounce doses every morning ; if the patient is very plethoric, a wineglassful may be given the first day every hour, until five or six doses have been taken; afterwards, the two-ounce dose in the morning will be all^hat is necessary. When the cellulitis is in the penile portion of the urethra, the parts may be bathed frequently in cold water; after each bath the penis should be wrapped in several folds of wet linen, or covered with a wet towel, with a layer of oiled silk tied on over all. Cold sitz-baths at night are also beneficial. In addi- tion to the cold-water treatment, the integument over the inflamed spot may be painted daily with tincture of iodine, or with a saturated solution of nitrate of silver, until the epithelium is destroyed and the skin somewhat sore; these applications may then be postponed for a few days, to be resumed when the skin has healed. Oleate of mercury is also an excellent local rem- edy to promote absorption; it too may be rubbed in daily until the skin becomes sore. Iodide of potassium is of service in cases where the stomach tolerates its use; it may be advantageously combined with tonics. As before remarked, penile, peri-urethral cellulitis does not result as fre- quently in suppuration as the perineal variety. With proper care, the knife