(325 ) VENEREAL DISEASES: GONORRHEA. BY J. WILLIAM WHITE, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF SURGERY AND LECTURER ON VENEREAL DISEASES IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA ; SURGEON TO THE PHILADELPHIA HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. The word Gonorrhoea, although etymologically inaccurate as a designation of the disease in question, is still so universally employed and so well under- stood, that it has been retained in this article for the sake of convenience. The old English but now vulgar term “ clap” is no better, lacking even the slight descriptive force of its French and German congeners, chaude-pisse and tripper. For reasons to be presently stated, urethritis will be used inter- changeably with gonorrhoea, as the term that most precisely and compre- hensively describes the most common manifestation of this malady, which, exclusive of the diseases of childhood, has probably affected at some time in their lives a larger proportion of the males of the community than any other single ailment. This extreme frequency—which will not be ques- tioned by those who have had much opportunity of observation in this direc- tion—of itself renders the disease of sufficient gravity to entitle it to careful consideration, even if the harmful consequences commonly attributed to its direct or indirect influence be denied. History of Gonorrhea. As to the history of gonorrhoea, which may be briefly dismissed, there is quite sufficient evidence to show that inflammation of the urethra, attended with purulent discharge appearing at the meatus, and capable of being trans- mitted from person to person by contagion—that is to say, of “ gonorrhoea” precisely as we now know it—is a disease which has existed from the remotest periods of antiquity, the writings of Moses, of Herodotus and Aristophanes, of Celsus and Hippocrates, of Rliazes, Avicenna, and Albucasis, all containing more or less accurate descriptions of such a urethritis, which affected their cotemporaries, and which was then, as now, accompanied or followed by numerous complications. The disease may be tracked across the middle ages with even greater facility, although it was then confused with the various manifestations of syphilis, and was not definitely separated from that affection until the early part of the present century, since which time the non-iclentity of these two diseases has been but rarely and feebly disputed. The only debatable ground in the con- sideration of gonorrhoea at this time is the question of its specificity, or invariable dependence upon a virus which is said to constitute the contagious element, and to impart to the disease such distinctive—“ specific”—characters as clearly to separate it from other affections.