GONORRHOEA. 344 organ and increasing the feeling of tension to both the patient and the sur- geon. It requires no special treatment, and usually subsides when the declining stage is reached. Pyaemia, as a sequence of gonorrhoea,1 and Pelvic Cellulitis, following the extravasation of urine resulting from the rupture of a gonorrhoeal peri- urethral abscess, are possible accidents, and in spite of their extreme rarity should be borne in mind in the management of these cases. Peritonitis is also, as might be supposed, of very exceptional occurrence. I have seen this complication in one case, of which the following is a brief resume taken from my case book:— R. K., aged 23, suffering with his first attack of gonorrhoea, was in the second week of the disease and progressing favorably when he suddenly felt pain in the groin and along the track of the cord, which led me to believe that he was about to develop an epididymitis. Instead, however, of the testicle swelling, the pain and tenderness spread from the right groin over the surface of the abdomen, which soon became tense, almost tympanitic, and sensitive to the touch. From this time onward he manifested all the symptoms of acute peritonitis, which for some days endangered his life, and which required the usual treatment. Dr. H. C. Wood saw him with me at this time. During the subsidence of the peritonitis, a low grade of epididymitis occurred. The most interesting point about the case was the discovery that the patient had previously had a small congenital hydrocele which, as it could be returned into the abdomen, bad at one time evidently been carelessly mistaken for a hernia, a truss having been applied by order of a physician. This explained very clearly the etiology of the case, the communication between the peritoneal cavity and the tunica vaginalis, through the funicular process, being uninterrupted, and permitting of a ready extension of the inflammation from the vas deferens, through the surrounding cellular tissue, to the peritoneum. Some weeks after complete restoration to health, no trace of the affection was discernible.2 The foregoing complications are chiefly, although not exclusively, met with in gonorrhoeas of the first or acute inflammatory variety. We may now consider that form of gonorrhoea which has been designated as subacute or catarrhal. Subacute or Catarrhal Gonorrhoea. This occurs most commonly in persons who have had previous attacks of gonorrhoea, and is an example of the tendency manifested by all mucous structures to take on inflammation upon slight provocation after having once been affected. It is particularly noticeable in the urethra for several reasons: the canal affords periodical passage to a secretion, the urine, which is espe- cially liable, by reason of changes in its constitution, to become an actual irritant; it is exposed, at times of erection, to intense congestion of all its vessels, and the converse is also true, a congested or irritated spot along the 1 Hill and Cooper quote (op. cit. p. 546) three fatal cases of pyaemia, in all of which there was phlebitis of the prostatic plexus. In all of them also the urethral mucous membrane was intact. Agnew reports a fatal case (Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 468) occurring in an exceptionally robust man. 2 A few cases are recorded in which peritonitis occurred as a complication of epididymitis. In the majority of them, however, the connection between the two diseases is not satisfactorily demonstrated. Dolbeau and Terrillon have each reported a case in which fatal peritonitis fol- lowed gonorrhoeal epididymitis affecting an undescended testicle. MM. Godard, Peter and Gosselin have published cases in which the spread of the inflammation along the spermatic cord to the abdomen, and thus to the peritoneum, was demonstrated by post-mortem examination.