GOXORRHCEA. 380 or divulsion, which I reserve for excessively irritable or contractile strictures. Meanwhile astringent injections should be used, strong enough and often enough to cause the disappearance of the discharge. If employed too weak or too seldom, they will be almost useless. During all this time, in the treatment of both chronic gonorrhoea and gleet, the diet should be moderate and simple, and alcoholic beverages, especially beer and champagne, should be strictly avoided. So also should sexual excitement, particularly if prolonged and ungratified. Anti-blennorrhagics are sometimes useful adjuvants. There are many little details, not altogether unimportant, which want of space excludes; but I believe that a careful observance of the foregoing methods of treatment will, in the majority of cases, yield satisfactory results. Some years ago, in cases of gonorrhoea, the following therapeutic measures were em- ployed in the London Hospitals.1 I am not aware how far time has modified them, but they are still of interest:— Mr. Bryant, at Guy’s Hospital, gave the tartrate of potassium in 20 or 30 grain doses three or four times daily, and found treatment by injections very unsatisfactory. He had, however, effected rapid cures by the injection every hour of a solution of alum or of tannin, 2 grains to the fluidounce. Mr. Maunder, at the London Hospital, gave copaiba during the onset and subsidence, and during the height of the disease used acetate of potassium—20 grains every four hours—with or without the eighth of a grain of tartar emetic and morphia. He also employed oft-repeated injections of sulphate of zinc. Mr. Callender, at St. Bartholomew’s, gave laxatives, diluents, warm baths and fomentations, opium or morphia suppositories, and, after the local inflammation had been allayed, ordered injections of sulphate of zinc, two grains to the ounce. Mr. Wood, at King’s College Hospital, prescribed at first low diet, saline aperients, diluents of liquor potassse or bicarbonate of potassium, in camphor mixture or in an infusion of pareira, the frequent injection of glycerine and water, two fluidounces to eight, followed in the chronic stage by copaiba or powdered cubebs, frequent injections of sul- phate of zinc, alum, etc., and at a still later period, by tincture of the chloride of iron and injections of the chloride of zinc. Mr. Cascoyen, at St. Mary’s Hospital, in the very early stage, before much inflam- mation had set in, used weak astringent injections, frequently repeated ; after the height of the disease was reached, he believed that copaiba was the most reliable remedy. After the violence of the attack had subsided, he again used weak injections, and gave cubebs and quinine. He found the treatment by salines and depletory remedies in the early stage of gonorrhoea not only useless, but positively injurious. He had scarcely ever known the so-called “ abortive” treatment to succeed. Mr. Barwell, at Charing Cross Hospital, avoided copaiba, which was apt to increase or lengthen the disease. In the case of a first attack with high inflammation, he used a purge, hot baths, and alkaline diuretics and aperients, followed by an injection of sul- phate of zinc, two grains to the fluidounce. Second or subsequent attacks he treated with injections without any preliminary preparation. He also used tannin, three or four grains to the fluidounce of starch-water or syrup. In chronic gonorrhoea, turpentine, with black or cayenne pepper was useful, but the most certain treatment was the introduc- tion every other day of a bougie smeared thickly with an ointment of from 3 to 10 grains of nitrate of silver to the ounce of lard. Mr. Heath, at University College Hospital, used injections from the first. In the premonitory stage he believed in the efficacy of a strong lead lotion—Liq. plumbi subacet. fj§j, aq. flfvij—and in the acute stage, warm water and a weak lead lotion, with bicarbonate of potassium internally, followed subsequently by an injection of sulphate of zinc. In gleet, if a distinctly diseased surface was discovered, the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver gave the best results; if the disease were more general, astringent injections and the passage of a large-sized steel bougie were the 1 Lancet, March 16, 23, 30, and April 13, 1867, pp. 331, 362, 411, 458.