386 GONORRHOEA. hip-baths, of a temperature and duration governed by the sensations of the patient, and persisted in as long as they are followed by relief of subjective symptoms; counter-irritation to the perineum, preferably by iodine; normal exercise of the genital functions. Cauterization of the prostatic urethra is unquestionably useful in many cases, but should be employed only after these other measures have failed. A few drops of a thirty- or forty-grain solution of nitrate of silver should be deposited in the prostatic urethra, and the im- mediate effect, which is a more or less marked inflammatory action, watched and controlled by rest and appropriate remedies. The operation may be repeated if no benefit results from the first application. Ergot, in combination with iodide of potassium, has been recommended in cases of chronic prostatitis, as tending to restore the contractility of the prostate, and, at the same time, to favor absorption of the plastic material deposited in it. When other reme- dies have failed, the application, once a week for six weeks or two months, of a gentle faradic current to the prostatic urethra, by means of a urethral electrode, is often suffi- cient to remove all symptoms. I have notes of three cases in which it has seemed to be the efficient agent in producing a cure, although other remedies were employed at the same time. Zeissl recommends,1 in chronic prostatitis consecutive to gonorrhoea, that a full-sized sound be passed daily for several days, and allowed to remain for four or five minutes. He adds: “ It is always preferable for beginners to employ a metallic catheter rather than a sound, as it is a source of great satisfaction to them to see the urine flow from the bladder, and not remain in painful doubt as to whether the instrument is actually in the bladder or has made a false passage.” Epididymitis, at its onset, when there is a little thickening found at the posterior edge of the testicle, a feeling of weight and dragging along the cord, etc., but no great swelling, should be treated as follows: Put the patient to bed in the recumbent position; elevate the scrotum above the level of the thighs by means of a folded towel laid beneath it, or by a handkerchief, folded triangularly, and placed with the base beneath the scrotum, the apex and extremities being brought up and fastened to another going around the waist or pinned to the underclothes (the scroto-lumbar triangle of Mayor’s handkerchief dressings). Apply directly over the painful testicle a piece of patent lint, soaked in the following lotion, with which it should be kept con- tinually wet:— &.—Tinct. aconiti rad., Tinct. opii, aa f§j. Liq. plumbi subacet., Aquae, aa f§ij. M. Shave the hair from the groin on the affected side, and take about six ounces of blood, by means of leeches, along the line of the cord. Admin- ister a half-bottle of the effervescing citrate of magnesium, place the patient on restricted diet, stop all urethral treatment, give him a drop of tincture of aconite and five grains of bromide of potassium every two hours, or more frequently if there be any febrile reaction, and then watch the case. Almost always—eight times out of ten, at least—this treatment at an early stage will prevent any further manifestations; the symptoms will subside, and in two or three days the patient may be permitted to walk around, keeping the testicle still enveloped in the lotion and well supported by a suspensory. In the remaining cases swelling continues, the epididymis becomes larger, and the tunica vaginalis becomes distended with fluid. Prompt action will still serve to cut short the disease. In such a condition the scrotum of the inflamed side should be made tense by grasping it with the left hand, while 1 Medical Times and Gazette, February 21, 1880.