356 GONORRHOEA. probable that it ever can be definitely determined in a mathematical sense. The idea that any particular fixed calibre represents the normal condition of the urethra has long ago been abandoned, the observed variations of that canal being such that no special dimensions can be assigned to it as repre- senting the precise dividing line between health and disease. The old method of regarding the size of the meatus as an indication of the normal calibre of the canal behind it, is also unquestionably fallacious, it having been conclusively shown that no more definite relation exists between them than between any other mucous canal and its corresponding outlet, the mouth and the oesophagus for example, or the anus and the sigmoid flexure. That there is a certain correspondence between the size of the urethra and that of the flaccid penis, is true, the calibre of the one increasing with the- circumference of the other, but that this ratio is present in any absolutely unvarying manner, has not yet been demonstrated. At the most, the size of the penis may be said to furnish a general indication of the urethral dimensions, but one which is approximate merely. On the other hand, it has been shown that there are usually certain normal variations even in the spongy portion, which is now claimed with much show of truth as the most frequent seat of pathological contractions, and that it is impossible with any of the means at our command to distinguish between these natural irregularities and coarctations of equal calibre due to incipient stricture. The discussion of these opposing views, neither of which is without its errors, would exceed the scope of this article, but I may here repeat a state- ment which I have already made elsewhere, that in my opinion, although our knowledge is insufficient to determine in every case the exact nature or pathogenetic value of any given slight diminution in urethral calibre, unat- tended with symptoms, yet we have abundant evidence, clinical and post-mor- tem, to enable us to advance, with little risk of contradiction, the following propositions, applicable to the vast majority of cases:— I. A patient who, after an attack of gonorrhoea, develops the condition which we have described as gleet, especially if the discharge be accompanied by the other symptoms of the group, has, in all probability, a commencing stricture. II. If a careful examination with a bulbous bougie reveal any abnormal constriction, it may, with confidence, be considered as due to a fibrous de- posit in the submucous tissue, and the symptoms may be referred to it. III. This condition, though yielding readily to proper treatment, is some- times, if neglected, productive of serious consequences, which, in very rare instances, may even imperil life, through continuous irritation of that portion of the genito-urinary tract which is posterior to the contraction. Diagnosis of Chronic Urethral Discharges. Fig. 314. Bougie-k-boule, or bulbous-pointed bougie. It is evident from the foregoing, that, to arrive at a definite conclusion as to the character and cause of any particular chronic urethral discharge, it will often become necessary to resort to the use of bulbous-pointed bougies, which, for pur- poses of diagnosis, are of all urethral instruments the most valuable. They may be made of metal with slender stems, having small expanded ends or handles, upon which the num- ber of the instrument may be marked; this should represent in millimetres the circumference of the shoulder of the bulb. More satisfactory instruments are, in my opinion, the flexible gum bulbous-pointed bougies figured in the annexed cut (Fig.