ULCERS. 278 sists wholly of pus. The surface of such an ulcer is depressed, and red, and presents irregular projections of granulating tissue all over; the margins are bounded by skin which has somewhat more than the usual vascularity, and which is consequently a little reddened. As healing progresses, the margin, of newly-formed skin, appears white; and just within this white margin is a boundary line of a pinkish hue, which shades off into the brighter red of the central granulating portion. The epidermic cells bordering such an ulcer proliferate actively, and, if the ulcer is only protected, the healing process may go on until a perfect cure results. The rapidity of the cure will be deter- mined largely by the character of the tissue immediately underlying the skin. If the connective tissue is long and lax, with an abundance of bloodvessels, the process of cicatrization will be rapid, and the scar left will be small; but if the tissue under the skin is short and tense, so as to bind the granulating surface to a solid structure beneath, the process of healing will be slow, and the scar will he correspondingly large. In the first case, skin is borrowed from the surrounding parts ; while in the second instance, new material must be formed to fill the gap. Treatment.—A simple or healthy ulcer, if it is not too large, requires nothing but cleanliness and protection for its cure. Inflamed or Phlegmonous Ulcers. A simple, healthy ulcer may become inflamed from any of the local or general causes that give rise to local inflammation. This condition, if it occurs during the reparative stage of a simple ulcer, may lead to rapid breaking down of tissue, and consequent increase in the size, and change in the form, of the ulcer; the pink granulations becoming intensely red, then dusky, and finally of an ashy hue. The recently-formed epithelium of the cicatrizing border yields quickly to the disintegrating process, the normal skin about the ulcer becomes swollen, red, hot, and painful, and the tissues at the base of the ulcer become involved, and rapidly disintegrate. The discharge, at first small and thick, becomes thin and sanious, and is made up chiefly of the debris of disintegrating tissue mixed with serous elements of the blood. If the patient is weak and cachectic, the inflamed ulcer may rapidly assume a pliagedtenic character. Treatment of Phlegmonous Ulcers.—In the very beginning of the attack, a saline cathartic may be administered, and the whole body, as well as the part affected, should be placed in a position of complete repose. Leeches may be applied to the limb—but not too near the ulcer—or the ulcer itself and its distended margins may be scarified. Warm, soothing, and astringent applications should be made to the part, and the limb should be elevated so as to retard the flow of arterial, and promote the return of venous blood. Should the inflamed condition be due in any degree to general causes, the constitutional defect should be sought for and corrected. Sloughing or Phagedenic Ulcers. In this condition, the dusky, swollen, hot, and painful margins of the ulcer rapidly break down, the smooth livid border is replaced by an irregular, abrupt edge, and the centre becomes deeply excavated.