602 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. once, lest inflammation be excited in them. The following method may be observed with advantage: Let the atfected parts be bathed or sponged with quite warm water for five minutes, and then rubbed with olive oil. In a few minutes more, the key may be applied with sufficient force to press out the now softened contents of the glands. This process should be repeated daily until all the comedones have been removed, and subsequently, as often as they continue to re-form. Much may be done to correct the sluggish action of the glands by the frequent use of strong soaps, in connection with liberal oiling of the skin beforehand. The best preparations are the liquid glycerine soap made in Vienna, or a solution of German soap (sapo viridis), or well made domestic soft soap, in alcohol, to which after filtration glycerine has been added. (R. Saponis mollis 3j, alcohol f§ij, glycerinte fgss. M.) These should be rubbed into the previously oiled skin with a bit of sponge. The same sponge dipped in water should then be rubbed upon the part until a thorough lather is established, when water should be applied for a consider- able time by the hands or a large sponge, until the soap is entirely washed off. Any overaction of the soap may then be corrected by the application of a little more oil, olive or almond, or of cold cream ointment or vaseline. The whole process is best carried out just before going to bed. Milium. (Synonyms: Grutum; Strophulus albidus.)—This is another affec- tion of the sebaceous glands, caused by retention of their secretion, in the form of pearly or yellowish-white, firm, little, globular bodies embedded in the skin and projecting slightly above its surface. These vary in size from that of a mustard-seed to that of a small pea. They lie just beneath the epidermis, and have no opening upon the surface. Their seat is most com- monly the skin of the face, especially about the eyelids, and the male and female genitals. They are the result of an accumulation of sebaceous mat- ter in one or more lobes of superficial glands, arising from occlusion of the sebaceous duct before its entrance into the common canal, as is shown by their occurrence along the edges of cicatrices, and after severe dermatitis; more generally, however, probably without mechanical obstruction, in consequence of changes in the character of the secretion. The contents of these little cysts are found to consist of hardened epithelial cells, arranged in concentric layers at the periphery of the globular mass, and, in the central portions, of firm but more fatty sebaceous cells. Colloid degeneration of the epidermal contents has once been observed. When occurring in great numbers, as they sometimes do, upon a darkly pigmented skin, they become a serious de- formity. Treatment.—Milia may be removed easily by cutting through the thin overlying epidermis, and squeezing out their contents with the nail or the edge of the knife. A slight degree of bleeding sometimes follows, which is readily checked by pressure. Sebaceous Cysts. (Synonyms: Atheromata; Wens.)—These tumors, situated within and beneath the skin, consist of hypertrophied sebaceous glands filled with their retained and more or less modified secretion. They vary in size, generally from that of a pea to that of a pigeon’s egg, but are sometimes larger. They may occur on all parts of the body, but their most common seat is the scalp, and they may occur singly or in considerable numbers. The orifice of the affected gland is generally obliterated, but sometimes remains open, and may be so much enlarged as to admit a probe. The tumors are soft, or firm and elastic to the touch, are movable, and vary in shape according to their age and the resistance of the overlying skin, being flattened, or prominent and globular. The integument above them almost always remains in its