INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSiE. 730 entirely gone, by painting with tincture of iodine, a simple blister, or an oint- ment of the biniodide of mercury (gr. x to §j), will frequently cure the milder cases where only slight distortion is present. If there is much fluid present, with no attendant inflammation, subcutaneous puncture and discission of the sac, followed by pressure, with or without the use of iodine externally, is good practice. When the bunion is acutely inflamed, rest in the horizontal posture, with the foot elevated, and the application of an anodyne water-dressing, constitute the best treatment. If suppuration ensue, an early and free incision should be practised. Some caution must be exercised as to incisions in the aged or ill-nourished, in whom gangrene or serious suppuration not infrequently occurs. Csesar Hawkins finds that even when the bone is laid bare by a suppurating bunion, a cure can often be effected by the use of nitric acid. He removes the superjacent corn as freely as possible, enlarges the orifice of the bursa, and cautiously applies the acid once or twice. When the disease is close to a joint, great caution must be exercised. If the bone be denuded, it should be touched freely but carefully with the acid. This will promote the separation of the necrosed portion, when the bone will probably become covered with healthy granulations. Stimulating applications, such as resin cerate, etc., with opium and stimu- lants internally, are safer, when indolent, suppurating sores remain, than laying open the sac. In the young or middle-aged, but only as a last resort, the bursa may be laid open or excised, but, if possible, only with antiseptic precautions. Occasionally the suppuration extends to the adjacent joint, resulting in its destruction, with more or less extensive caries of the bones. If, after a fair trial of rest, free drainage, and appropriate dressings, a cure by anchylosis does not result, I strongly advise amputation through the metatarsal bone, my experience leading me to an unfavorable opinion as to excision of the diseased joint, although this operation has been successfully practised by Kramer, Pancoast, and others. Perforating Ulcer in its Relations to Bunion. In studying the literature of this strange affection, it is evident that there is more than one variety of the disease. I have myself no doubt that at least two of its forms are at the outset etiologically the same, though when seen during their later stages it is exceedingly difficult to believe them identical affections. Undoubtedly the course pursued in various cases is due to the difference in the resisting and reparative powers of the patient’s tissues. There is certainly no greater variation exhibited by this disease than all surgeons are familiar with in slight injuries of a joint. In a healthy, robust individual, a slight blow or sprain is readily recovered from, while in one who is feeble, sickly, or, though apparently healthy, of a strumous diathesis, a slow form of inflammation is set up, which eventuates in the destruction of cartilage and bone, or perhaps even the patient’s life, if relief by art be not afforded. The dependent position of the foot, and its necessary use as an instrument of support and means of progression, render active a latent tissue- defect or constitutional weakness, which elsewhere would escape detection. Whether a third form of perforating ulcer, of the nature of a neurosis, exists or not, it seems in our present state of knowledge impossible to decide absolutely. When describing the symptoms of the several varieties of the disease, I shall endeavor to determine this matter, or at least to give the facts observed, so as to enable the reader to arrive at an intelligent conclusion. (1) As has been already said, most authorities state that under all neglected