445 TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. which is of any service in these cases is the actual cautery, and this should be thoroughly and mercilessly applied wherever the disease shows itself. The subsequent dressings are best made with the nitric acid lotion, and these should be carefully applied over the entire extent of the sore, the cauterizations to be repeated as long as the floor of the ulcer shows its purulent grayish hue, or the sore exhibits any tendency towards extension. The use of the potassio- tartrate of iron, so much vaunted by Ricord as the “ born enemy of phage- dtena,” does not seem to be as efficacious in this country as abroad, and it has the decided disadvantage of depositing the metallic tartrate of iron over the surface of the sore. Internally, as a tonic, it is sometimes of benefit. The internal treatment of phagedsena must be directed to building up the patient’s general health, and, of the various tonics recommended for this pur- pose—besides the preparations of iron—quinine, cod-liver oil, and phosphoric acid may be used with advantage. Care must be taken not to confound these phagedsenic chancroids of the genitals and of the inguinal region with ulcer- ating gummata and serpiginous syphilides of the same regions, as those require an entirely different treatment. In chancroids, mercury and iodide of potassium not only are of no advantage, but often do positive harm, and I believe that many cases of serpiginous chancroids, which are reported as having been benefited by the “ mixed treatment,”1 are examples of serpigi- nous syphilides, and not of true phagedsenic chancroids. In the large majority of cases, chancroids do not need any internal treatment; it is only in those cases in which the patients are debilitated that constitutional remedies are required, and even then tonics, such as iron or quinine, are all that are requisite. In the phagedsenic variety of chancroid, tonics are, of course, a necessity. Mixed Sore.—As regards the so-called “ mixed sore,” the treatment is two- fold, and must be changed as soon as the character of the local ulceration is altered. As long as the chancroid exists, the case must be treated as one of chancroid; but as soon as the ulcer assumes its syphilitic characters, the remedies applicable to the chancroid must be abandoned, and those remedies adopted which are appropriate for the treatment of the initial lesion ot syphilis. [This name is applied to the combined use of mercury and iodide of potassium.]