614 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. ously for months without exciting eczema. Carbolic acid, when applied in concentrated form to the skin, may produce intense dermatitis, or an eschar of varying depth, and even in the weak solutions of ordinary surgical prac- tice, is capable of exciting a mild eczema upon the hands of the attendants. Arnica, although rarely employed by the surgeon, is of almost universal use in domestic medicine, and is the frequent cause of artificial eczema. (See page 607.) All these forms of artificial eczema, although ordinarily confined to the parts of the integument under the immediate action of the irritant, may afterwards assume a wider distribution, and may even become chronic in persons liable to the disease. Eczema from Vaccination.—In addition to the graver forms of dermatitis, occasionally excited by vaccination about the point of inoculation, a true eczematous inflammation is not infrequently developed around its immediate vicinity, and may subsequently occupy a large portion of the vaccinated limb, or be the centre of a more general distribution. The part is sometimes covered with thick sero-purulent crusts of considerable extent, which appear to be continuous with the original vaccine scab, so that it is not at all strange that the belief should be entertained, in such cases, that the cutaneous disease is the result of impure vaccination. Less immediate and more general forms of eczema are also sometimes stimulated into existence during the course of vaccination in children, as the result of the excitement produced in all the tissues by the virus. Treatment of Eczema.—The treatment of all these forms of eczema is usually simple, because the type of affection presented is generally acute in the char- acter both of its lesions and of its course. Often the recognition and removal of the exciting cause is sufficient for the restoration of the skin to health, in a lew days. When eczema is produced by friction and pressure of surgical appliances, black wash (R. Hydrargyri chloridi mitis 3ji Liquoris calcis Oj) should be applied to the affected parts upon a thin cloth, as an evaporating lotion, for half an hour morning and evening, when it is possible to remove the apparatus for so long a time. The cloths should be removed and dipped in the wash every five minutes during the application. If the apparatus can be laid aside during the night, as in the case of hernia, cloths smeared with diachylon ointment1 may be applied at bedtime to the inflamed parts, after the wash, and may be worn until morning. It may be well before reapply- ing the apparatus, to dust the affected parts, especially where two folds of skin come in contact, with a powder of zinc oxide and starch (3j-sj). When the excoriations are healed, or in milder grades of inflammation, a zinc wash may be used (R. Zinci oxidi 3iji Liquoris calcis f^viij. M.), sopped on freely with a bit of soft cotton rag, and allowed to dry upon the affected parts. It may be applied as often as the apparatus can be removed for a few minutes. This wash may also be used to harden the skin after the removal of a rubber bandage, at night, or to counteract the excoriations and follicular inflamma- tions induced by its macerating action. For the similar mild effects of water- dressings and poultices, the same remedy is often efficient. In the graver and more widely diffused forms of eczematous inflammation, produced by the irritants above mentioned, the ordinary methods of treatment 1 Hebra’s formula: ip Olei olivarum optimi, f§xv; Lithargyri, §iij, 5vj ! Olei lavandulae, f3ij. The olive oil should first be mixed with two pounds of water and heated over a water- bath ; then, while freshwater is constantly added, and the mixture stirred, freshly sifted litharge should be gradually introduced. The whole should be kept in motion until cool, and lastly the oil of lavender should be added. In cool weather, an ounce more of olive oil for every pound of the ointment should be used.