402 GONORRHOEA. Dr. A. Reeves Jackson,1 by intense arterial congestion. The temperature of the water should range from 100° to 110°, or even 120° F. In certain cases, especially of chronic vaginitis, Duncan2 also recommends the use of the hot douche, large quantities of water at blood-heat being thrown into the vagina with considerable force. If the patient be in good circumstances, the subsiding stage of a vaginitis will be best treated with vaginal suppositories, which may be used thrice daily, the supine position being observed for at least an hour after the introduction of each one. As examples of useful formulae, the following may be given :— R—Ext. opii, gr. iij. Acidi tannici, 3j- 01. theobromae, q. s. M. et ft. suppositoria no. xij. R—Morphiae sulphat. gr. iij. Liq. ferri subsulphat. t'3ij. 01. theobromae, q. s. M. et ft. suppositoria no. xij. R.—Pulv. aluminis, Cerat. plumbi subacet., aa 3nj* 01. theobromae, q. s. M. et ft. suppositoria no. xij. In ordering these, the patient should be informed that they will stain her linen if allowed to come in contact with it. In some women with whom oily applications prove objectionable, or in those too poor to use suppositories, it will be well to pack the vagina with strips of patent lint, into the meshes of which tannin or powdered alum has been rubbed. This must be done through a speculum, the instrument being gradually withdrawn as the vagina is tilled. A T-bandage or ordinary napkin is then applied, and the dressing allowed to remain for twenty-four hours, or even longer if it does not become offensive at the end of that time. This is a very efficacious method of treatment, but is not as cleanly as the use of suppositories, and involves both more exposure of the patient and more labor on the part of the surgeon. Occasionally, when the vagina remains irritable, raw, bleeding easily, and resenting the most gentle introduction of a speculum, it will be well to apply to its surface very thoroughly a strong solution of nitrate of silver, 40 to 60 grains to the ounce of water. This is best done by inserting a cylindrical spec- ulum, elevating its outer extremity, pouring into it two or three fluidrachms of the silver solution, and then gradually withdrawing it. As the vagina falls into the end of the tube, it will be thoroughly bathed in the liquid. At night, in all cases of vaginitis, it will be found convenient to employ little pledgets of absorbent cotton into which some medicated powder has been rubbed. The patient should keep, on a chair or table beside the bed, two or three of these little rolls, and on waking during the night should insert one as far as the finger will carry it, first, of course, withdrawing the previous one. Lead, zinc, and tannin, may be used in this way, the former usually with the greatest advantage. There are very few cases of vaginitis which will resist this general plan of treatment, and indeed I have never seen any, exclusive of those cases of long-continued -vaginal catarrh in old prostitutes, which are practically in- curable on account of the habits of the patients. Tonics, careful diet, sea-bathing, and continual abstinence from coitus, will be necessary now and then to remove the last vestiges of the disease, which will rarely give any further trouble. 1 St. Louis Clinical Record, June, 1879. * Medical Times and Gazette, June 26, 1880.