522 SYPHILIS. been reported ; the syphilodermata may affect the skin of the lids; mucous papules or mucous patches may occur upon their commissure; the glands may be involved, causing blepharitis; and gummata of the angle of the eye are not very rare. Most of these lesions are easily distinguished from the non-syphilitic affections which they resemble. A form of late ulceration occurring near the free border of the lids is liable to be mistaken for ophthalmia tarsi or epithelial cancer, but the history, and in a last resort the touchstone of treatment, will settle the question. Bumstead says that non- ulcerating gummatous nodules from small-pea to filbert size occur in the lids, the skin over them being unchanged in color or appearance. These may sometimes remain unaltered for a considerable period, and are liable to be mistaken for tarsal or meibomian tumors. The}7 may usually be resolved by the free use of antisyphilitic remedies, especially the mercurials. Syphilitic inflammation of the tarsal cartilages is characterized by a thickening from inflammatory infiltration of the cartilage, which usually retains its shape, and from swelling of the lid, in which the skin may or may not be involved. The cartilage is apt to lose its normal elasticity. The affec- tion is obstinate, lasting weeks or months, and is apt to be followed by loss of the cilia. The affections of the lachrymal ducts have been carefully studied by various writers, among others by Lagneau,1 who says that they are generally due to some osseous lesion—periostosis, exostosis, caries, or necrosis; more rarely they are due to some lesion of the soft parts. The chief diagnostic marks are the presence of an indurated, resistant swelling, of a bony character at bottom, perceived by the touch at the lower and internal portion of the orbit, or by the sound in the nasal duct. The syphilitic character of the cutaneous orifice of the fistula, when one exists; the coincidence of late syphilitic lesions in the neighborhood, or elsewhere; and the history of the case, will also throw light on the nature of the disease. The course of the affection is slow, with occasional erysipelatoid attacks. Internal treatment, employed at an early stage, must be relied upon. Syphilis of the Generative Apparatus. Penis and Urethra.—The urethra, both in the male and in the female, may be the seat of various syphilitic lesions analogous in most respects to those occurring in the respiratory and alimentary passages. The cavernous structure of the penis may be the seat of a gummatous deposit which may give rise to a sort of chordee ; the affected section of the penis being flaccid (luring erection, the organ assumes a curved shape, and is pointed in one direction or another according to the seat of the gumma. Other deposits in the cavernous portion of the penis may give rise to the same symptom, which is not, therefore, peculiarly characteristic of syphilis. Bumstead and Taylor2 speak of a tubercular or gummy ulcer of the penis which closely resembles chancroid, with sharply-cut edges and grayish exca- vated floor, an abundant purulent secretion, and a soft base, seen most fre- quently in the furrow at the base of the glans, where it tends to undermine the integument of the penis.3 This sore, however, is solitary, while chancroid is usually multiple. Testicle.—Syphilitic Epididymitis.—First described by Droid in 1863, 1 Maladies Syphilitiques des Voies Laclirymales. Arch. G6n. de. M6d., 1847. 2 Op. cit., p. 361. 3 See PI. XIII. Fig. 3. 4 De l’Epididymite Syphilitique. Arch. Gen. de M6d., 1863.