50 WOUNDS. wine, as originally used by Dionis. The dressing is said to be a coagulant and astringent, and, with such properties, to favor primary adhesion. In open wounds, it is said to act as a healthy stimulant to the granulations, and as a disinfectant, thus helping repair, and guarding against septictemic changes and other wound complications. Nelaton employed compresses saturated with alcohol, and lie believed the camphorated spirit to be useful only in proportion to the alcohol it contained. M. Chedeverque asserts “that, camphorated spirit of wine is without contra- diction the best disinfectant that can be found for the treatment of wounds and ulcers,” and he makes this statement after a careful investigation into the value of every known antiseptic, not excluding carbolic acid. The spirit is supposed to have the power of dissolving the pus cell, and of obviating its tendency to decompose, and of closing any open vessels. Maisonneuve bathes the raw surface of the wound with the spirit, and, having brought the divided edges together, and having adjusted them with sutures or adhesive plaster, so placed as to allow of the free escape of discharges, envelops the whole in a bandage steeped in tincture of arnica, and at times applies over the whole the apparatus for “pneumatic aspiration,” which will be again referred to. The disinfecting and cleansing power of the spirit, applied in this manner, probably helps the draining influence of the aspirator. Upon the whole, the alcohol dressing may be favorably regarded, whether simple alcohol or spirit of camphor be employed. It has, without doubt, a cleansing, and probably a disinfecting influence on a wounded surface, while, at the same time, it helps materially to arrest capillary bleeding and that serous oozing which is so detrimental to primary union. In its use, however, the surgeon should never be induced to forget the value of the other essential points of practice to which attention has been drawn, and particularly drain- age. Pneumatic Aspiration and Occlusion.—Maisonneuve’s method of “Pneu- matic Aspiration,” which he employed with some success before 1867, and J. Guerin’s plan of effecting “Pneumatic Occlusion,” promulgated in 1865,have already been described in the article on A imputations, Vol. I. page 595. It is essen- tial that the aperture of the India-rubber cap, in Maisonneuve’s apparatus, should fit the limb accurately, but the crown or lower part may hang some dis- tance from the wound. A few strokes of the piston, morning and evening, suf- fice to draw the discharges from the stump into the jar, where, in the absence of air, they accumulate without danger of decomposition ; while the healing of the wound is facilitated by the accurate and immovable adaptation of its sur- faces, and by the exclusion of air. This practice of Maisonneuve’s has three main objects in view, all of which are of importance: (1) to check the for- mation of matter; (2) to prevent its decomposition when formed; and (8) to prevent its poisonous action on the system by entrance into the circulation. It is essentially based upon the principle of drainage, and in that point of view is valuable. In exceptional cases, and particularly in certain cases of amputation, it may be employed, but as a general mode of treating stumps it does not appear to possess such advantages over simpler methods as to make up for the difficulties and expense of its employment. Antiseptic Irrigation of Wounds.1—The value of the antiseptic irrigation of wounds is not, at the present day, likely to be disputed by any surgeon, and a difference of opinion is only probable as to the antiseptic which shall 1 [The treatment of wounds by Prof. Lister’s “ Antiseptic Method” is described in a separate article, page 63.]