ARROW WOUNDS. 115 superciliary ridge, and penetrated deeply into the brain, and yet its presence was hardly suspected during life. If an arrow has penetrated hut a short distance—as a quarter of an inch—into the skull, and the patient has symp- toms of cerebral compression, the probabilities are that a scale of hone from the vitreous table has been broken off, and, still sticking to the point of the arrow head, is making pressure on the brain. I have seen a patient with an arrow slightly penetrating the skull, immediately recover consciousness on the removal of the foreign body. It is probable that, in plucking out the arrow head, I drew back into its place a scale of bone which had been broken oft' from the inner table, and driven in against the brain. In two other cases of arrow wound of the skull—not, however, seen during life—I found by an autopsy that this depression of the inner table had occurred. The scale of bone was in each case spiked by the arrow point, and borne firmly against the dura mater and brain. The men had evidently been rendered insensible by the wounds in their skulls, for both had perished from other wounds re- ceived at close quarters. I think that this casualty is of rather frequent occurrence, and although there is no example of it in the Army Medical Museum, it must be remembered that this accident would immediately render the wounded man a prey to the savage who had shot him, and, after being scalped and otherwise mutilated, he would he left dead on the field, or possibly buried where lie fell. Thus it would not be probable that any speci- mens would be procured. The immediate danger in arrow wounds of the skull, is from internal hemorrhage; and we infer that this has taken place if the symptoms of com- pression remain after the arrow head has been withdrawn. If the arrow head has gone in very deeply, a large trephine should be applied, and the circle of bone and arrow head may then come away together. Next, any superficial bleeding vessels should be looked for, and twisted, or, if they are lodged in bony canals, such as the meningeal, the wound should be plugged with lint. The exposure of the deeper parts to the air would at once give outward vent to the blood, thus relieving the compression, and at the same time constringing the vessels and so stopping the hemorrhage. Encephalitis is the secondary danger to which the victims of arrow wounds of the skull are exposed. If the arrow head is removed, this inflammation will usually not be serious, and will yield to purgatives, ice, aconite, and rest. But if the arrow head is not removed, the irritation will produce abscess, which will probably prove fatal. In these cases the patient is usually conscious, and perhaps unaware that an arrow head is lodged in his brain, and quite skepti- cal as to the ultimate danger. If, after a cautious examination with the probe, the surgeon cannot find the missile, the case must be left altogether to nature. Should chronic inflammation be developed, as indicated by pain and delirium, and more particularly should abscess form, as indicated by stupor, it might be right to trephine. The pus might thus possibly make its escape, or, by rare good luck, the arrow head itself might be found. Arrow Wounds of the Face.—Arrow wounds of the face are often attended with considerable hemorrhage, both primary and secondary. They are troublesome, also, on account of the sponginess of the bones, which permits the arrow to penetrate deeply, and then, by allowing the part to close over the head of the missile, opposes obstacles to its extraction. Fig. 2B3, from Circular No. 8, S. G. 0., 1871, represents a skull in which the arrow entered just above the zygoma,and,passing inwards, penetrated the brain through the temporal region. The shaft of the arrow had been plucked away, leaving the arrow head deeply embedded and entirely hidden in the temporal muscle, and hooked under the zygoma by one of its shoulders, so that its pres-