GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRiE. 203 ization after ordinary traumatisms. Pain, at times excruciating, may be present at the seat of injury, girdling the body, following the course of par- ticular nerves, or confined to a limited area in a remote part; the sensation is not infrequently that of burning or tingling, or, on the other hand, there may be numbness or even complete anaesthesia. Similarly, the motor dis- turbances may be those of excess or diminution of action—twitchings, jerk- ings, tetanic spasms, or, what is much more usually seen, paralysis, partial or complete, below the seat of injury, transitory or permanent according to the condition of the cord—accompanied by muscular atrophy, most strongly marked in the leg muscles after lumbar injury. In cervical and dorsal wounds, the voice, respiration, and circulation are affected, in greater or less degree, according to the location and extent of the injury. Rectal and vesical paralysis, with subsequent incontinence, are ordinarily present if the cord- lesion has been at all extensive. In the male, priapism is an often-observed, but not necessary, symptom of injury above the third lumbar vertebra, its frequency of occurrence increasing as the wound approaches the top of the column. In cervical lesions, high up, seminal ejaculation is apt to take place at the time of injury, even when the wound causes immediate death. As in all other spinal injuries, bedsores are usually formed in cases that do not speedily prove fatal, and are likely to be developed very quickly.1 Prognosis.—The prognosis of vertebral injuries, aside from the less severe forms of contusions and fractures of the processes, especially the spinous, is very grave, death usually resulting from lesion of the cord, from septic in- fection, from caries with abscess, or from associated wound of a viscus or large vessel. As was declared by Ollivier, in gunshot cases the accidents are graver, and death generally more rapid, than in those otherwise caused. Of the 32 cases of vertebral fracture among the British soldiers in the Crimea, all proved fatal except four, “ which were either fractures of the transverse processes in the neck, or of the spinous processes only,” and in the French army, 181 died out of 194 (93.3 per cent.). In the war between Prussia and Hanover, in 1866, there were eight cases with six deaths. Of 628 cases tabulated by Otis, 349 . or 55.57 per cent, ended in death, the mortality ac- cording to locality having been: for the cervical region, 70 per cent. (63 out of 90); for the dorsal region, 63.5 (87 out of 137); and for the lumbar region, 45.5 per cent. (66 out of 145); but in almost all, probably, of the non-fatal cases, the fractures affected only the processes. Of the subjects of lumbar injuries, 79 recovered, but it is expressly stated that “ there were more than seventy recoveries after gunshot fractures of the apophyses of the lumbar spine.” In Circular Ho. 6, S. G. 0., 1865, it is reported that “of 187 recorded cases of gunshot fracture of the vertebrae, all but seven proved fatal; six of these were fractures of the transverse or spinous apophyses.” Of 54 cases in which it is known that there was an associated injury of the cord, 42 died (77.78 per cent.). In very many of the military cases, death occurs so speedily that the indi- viduals never come under observation. How quickly life may be destroyed is indicated by the fact that in a case of pistol-ball wound between the axis and atlas, the victim, who was asleep, was not startled by the noise of the firing, and never moved a limb.2 The lower down in the column that the wound is, the longer of course the patient may be expected to live. Even when there has been a primary, complete division of the cord, the fatal ter- 1 In a case observed by Griers ant, in which the ball passed through the body of the eighth dorsal vertebra, a sacral bedsore formed on the third day. 2 Specimen in Middlesex Hospital Museum.