SARCOMA—MADURA FOOT. 655 Sarcoma. A multiple form of this disease shows itself, as described by Kaposi, upon the hands and feet—generally upon the latter first—as firm, round nodules, of a brownish or purplish color, varying in size from that of a small shot to that of a bean. These nodules present themselves in a discreet arrangement, or grouped, and are accompanied by thickening of the integument of the feet and hands, which are painful and impeded in movement. After some months, the oldest nodules become scaly and shrink away, leaving a pigmented de- pression. The confluent patches likewise undergo atrophy in their central portions, leaving the periphery elevated in the form of a firm, hard, pig- mented, scaly wall. They never ulcerate. At a later period, the nodules spread to the arms and legs, and, in the course of two or three years, develop upon the face and trunk, of larger size and darker color. Sometimes they soften superficially, exposing a bloody surface. With the more general dif- fusion of the disease, fever, diarrhoea, and marasmus occur, and it proves fatal in from three to five years. After death, similar reddish, nodular masses may be found in abundance in the lungs, spleen, heart, and intestinal canal. The nodules consist of small round cells arranged in groups, hemorrhagic deposits, and pigment. In other cases large-celled growths have been ob- served. In another form of sarcoma, these cutaneous phenomena are greatly exag- gerated. Infiltrated, red patches appear suddenly upon any part of the body, and may afterwards disappear, leaving brown stains, or may increase in size so as to cover considerable areas of skin. Their surface may cast its epider- mis, and allow a serous or bloody discharge to escape. On other parts, fun- goid tumors may arise, of a red or violet color, varying in size from that of a bullet to that of a hen’s egg, sometimes smooth of surface, sometimes fissured. These growths may also disappear spontaneously, or may undergo ulceration. They may occur in great numbers and upon any part of the surface. They, too, consist of masses of small round cells infiltrating the fibrous tissue of the corium and underlying structures. This form of disease has received various names from its respective observers, such as Mycosis fongoide ; Inflammatory fungoid neoplasm; Fungoid papillomatous tumor, etc. It ends fatally, gener- ally within two or three years. Madura Foot. (Synonyms: Mycetoma; Podelkoma; Fungus foot of India.) This is a destructive disease of the feet, and occasionally of the hands, which is prevalent in certain parts of India. The foot becomes greatly swollen and deformed, and presents numerous tubercular elevations, with fistulous openings from which a peculiar matter is discharged. The affection begins sometimes with the appearance of pimples or sores about the toes, sometimes with con- gestion and thickening of the integument; we have, however, no very definite account of its earliest manifestations. When first seen, the part generally presents small tubercular elevations, which discharge a thin fluid from fistul- ous openings. These tubercles gradually multiply; the foot undergoes thick- ening, losing all shape; the toes are distorted, or blend with the common mass; and the calf dwindles. The progress of the disease is very slow, lasting from five to twelve years. It is accompanied by severe pains in the part. The skin has generally a peculiar whitish appearance about the mouth