645 LEPROSY. be not very extensive, without etherization. The pain may be mitigated in some measure by first freezing the part. It is not of long duration. The parts cover themselves immediately with blackened bloody crusts, which are to be torn off with the crayon at the next burning, which should ordinarily follow in a few days. The process is to be repeated until all diseased tissue has been destroyed, as shown by the impossibility of forcing the point into the tissues. The scars which follow this method are generally smooth and well formed. Chloride of zinc is used, either in solution, or mixed with starch in the form of a paste (Canquoin’s), or with chloride of bromine and chloride of antimony (Landolfi s), but it works upon sound and diseased tis- sues alike, and has no advantage over nitrate of silver. A favorite prepara- tion in the hands of Professor Ilebra, is an arsenical paste (white arsenic, one part; artificial cinnabar, three parts; emollient ointment, twenty-four parts), spread thickly upon linen and applied to the affected region. It is to be renewed once in twenty-four hours, and worn constantly for from two to four days ; on the third day it becomes very painful. The advantages of this method are that by it only the diseased tissues are destroyed, the healthy and cicatrized parts being left intact. In no case has Prof. Ilebra seen poisoning produced by its use, but he has never applied it to a patch larger than the hand. Vienna paste, and other preparations of caustic potassa, destroy healthy and diseased structures alike. Pyrogallic acid and lard, one part to eight—spread upon linen and worn several days—is often effective in superficial forms of the disease. The galvano-cautery and Paquelin’s cautery are both of great service for the destruction of the nodules in their early stage, as well as for application to large ulcerations and outgrowths. These and all destructive agents are to be used repeatedly, until the morbid growths are exterminated and fail to reappear. The mechanical methods of frequent scarification, or multiple punctures with the lancet or bistoury, and the scraping or gouging process with the curette, are of service, especially the latter, although it is frequently necessary to apply caustics after using the spoon. Whichever of the above methods be chosen, it must be used vigorously, without mercy, it might be said. Most cases require protracted treatment, and often one after another of all the means at our disposal is called into action, sometimes seem- ingly in vain. In case of relapses we must begin over again. Leprosy. (Synonyms: Lepra ; Elephantiasis Groecorum ; Spedalskhed ; Der Aussatz.) Leprosy is a chronic disease of the general system, showing itself in the form of various changes in the integument and other structures of the body, and terminating fatally after some years. It still prevails as an endemic evil of enormous extent in some countries—Norway, India, China, the Sandwich Islands, etc.—but is distributed also in a less degree over nearly all regions of the globe. In North America, it occurs in Mexico and the States south of it; in Louisiana, South Carolina, and Minnesota; and in New Brunswick. Sporadic cases have been observed in many parts of the United States. After prodomal symptoms of months’ or years’ duration, consisting of debility, irregular action of the digestive system, and, in some persons, an occasional outbreak of bullae resembling pemphigus, the disease manifests itself upon the skin in three well marked varieties or types, called the tubercular, macular, and anaesthetic forms. The first of these, Lepra tuberosa, begins with the appearance of red or brownish spots, varying in size from that of a small pea to several inches in diameter, irregular in shape, and situated upon the face, arms, legs, palms, and