132 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. dated with open wound, has of late been generally attributed to the influence of septic bacteria, but by Wyatt (who saw it in Paris during the siege) it is declared, though incorrectly, to be confined to the lower extremity, and to always indicate division of the sciatic nerve. The great majority of cases of gangrene are consequent upon interference with either the inflow or outflow of blood in the wounded part, or below it; and such interference with the circulation may be caused by inflammation, by blood infiltration, by the plugging or ligation of the main vessels, or, occa- sionally, by the constriction of badly applied dressings. In inflammation, there is both stasis in the vessels of the affected area, and pressure exerted by the effusion and exudation upon the arteries and veins of the adjacent parts; in the hemorrhagic infiltrations, there is like pressure exerted by the extrava- sated blood, which may be in a single mass of considerable size, from tear- ing of a large vessel or vessels, or in many small collections from the general laceration that is always found extending some distance on either side of the wound. Very generally these two causes, in varying relative proportion, are found acting together. The gangrene thus produced presents the ordinary symptoms which cha- racterize it when resulting from traumatisms other than gunshot, the pain, the after insensibility, the coldness, the color changes, and the tendency (stronger or weaker, according to the extent of the damage and the general condition of the patient) to the formation of a line of demarcation and spontaneous separation of the dead tissue. When the chief artery or vein, or both, of a limb have been contused, their closure is very apt to occur, either from the pressure of blood from the ruptured vasa vasorum, extravasated between the sheath and the vessel, or, much more probably, from the formation of a thrombus; sometimes, perhaps, from inflammatory stenosis. The resulting mortification begins at a distance, and usually, if left to itself, advances steadily and rapidly up the limb, with not even an attempt at the establish- ment of a line of demarcation, and speedily causes death. In such a case, following a wound from side to side through the popliteal space, I saw the whole limb become gangrenous, and the patient die in less than thirty-six hours after the first symptoms manifested themselves in the foot. When the cause is not plugging, but ligation of the main artery, though there may be a similar uninterrupted extension of the mortification, spontaneous arresta- tion not infrequently occurs; just below the knee, for example, when the femoral or popliteal is the trunk that has been tied, the vitality of the parts above being maintained by the blood carried through the profunda. The fatal result in these cases of gangrene is usually due to blood-poison- ing—either septicsemic, from absorption of the fluids from the dead and dying parts, or pygemic, from the formation of thrombi and their subsequent destruction—though when death occurs suddenly, as it does at times, it may be, as maintained by Parise, because of the entrance into the heart of the gases of decomposition, which produce results the same as those that follow the admission of atmospheric air thi’ough veins divided in an operation. Hospital Gangrene.—This, unlike ordinary gangrene, is not an effect—a death in mass from injury of nerves, or more generally of vessels—but is a disease which manifests its presence by tissue destruction of greater or less extent. Occasionally occurring sporadically, and in private practice, in the great majority of cases it is met with in hospitals, where large numbers of wounded are aggregated. Any wound, even the smallest, may suffice for its starting point, but if does not commence on an unbroken surface; shell wounds are said to be particularly likely to be attacked by it. Regarded by some as