INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURSAL 726 Bursa; of Ankle and Foot. A bursal sac is, in tailors, usually developed oyer both the internal and the external malleolus, especially the latter; one is situated between the os calcis and the tendo Achillis; another on the plantar surface of this bone, over or in front of the tuberosities, beneath the fascia there attached; one on the inner and outer sides of the plantar surface of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe ;* one under the plantar surface of the head of the fifth metatarsal bone; another, occasionally, on the plantar surfaces of any or all of the other metatarso-phalangeal joints ; one on the dorsal surfaces of the inter-phalangeal joints; one on the dorsum of the foot; another over the tuberosity of the scaphoid; one over the projecting styloid-process of the base of the fifth metatarsal; one over the projecting portion of the head of the astragalus, in patients with flat foot; and others in various situations in cases of ciub-foot. Retro-calcanean Bursa. — Enlargement of this sac is a very rare affec- tion, but as it occasionally simulates disease of the ankle-joint, I have thought it worthy of a special description. Its anatomy differs somewhat from that of other bursre, in that cartilage forms part of two of its walls, viz., the anterior and posterior, for the vertical portion of the os calcis beneath the tendo Achillis, and the portion of this tendon which faces that part of the bone are both coated with a thin layer of cartilage. This bursa is small and heart-shaped, with its apex upwards, thus forming two pouches, one on each side of the tendon. These lateral pouches have a few bridles of con- nective tissue traversing them, although not of enough bulk to form even partial partitions. A vascular and fatty fold is usually found in each pouch. Constitutional causes are commonly at the bottom of enlargements of this bursa, although over-exercise by exaggerating the movements of the part is usually the sole cause which is recognized. Traumatism, other than the rubbing of an ill-fitting boot, can hardly ever be a cause, owing to the pro- tected position of the bursa. Symptoms.—-The depression on each side of the tendon is effaced by a fluctuating tumor which elevates it. Local pain and tenderness are com- plained of, and, when suppuration occurs, heat and redness of the skin are present. Unless there is suppuration, spontaneous pain is rare. Flexion and extension of the foot, either passive or during attempted walking—which is difficult if not impossible—give rise to severe pain in all cases, whether sup- purative or not. Contraction of the calf muscles causes more or less acute pain, by making traction on the tendons. In other respects the symptoms resemble those of other inflamed bursse. Suppuration is not an uncommon sequence, but resolution also occurs, especially in the purely constitutional cases. When the pus is spontaneously evacuated, rest and methodical com- pression rapidly effect a cure. From its propinquity to the os calcis and the ankle-joint, periarthritic abscess, caries of the calcis, etc., are liable to occur. Diagnosis. —When the case is seen at the outset, the diagnosis presents no difficulties, but after the formation of pus, some obscurity may arise. The diagnosis must mainly depend on the presence of a fluctuating tumor, before pus could have formed in sufficient quantity to present this symptom ; on its limitation to the known site of the bursa ; on the local pain produced by 1 A. Lenoir (Presse M^dicale) says that there are two sacs here: one normal, on the plantar surface ; the other, which is accidental, over the side of the head of the metatarsal bone. The plantar sac is found in the foetus at term, and, strange to say, is relatively larger in the child than in the adult.