213 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. How greatly the death-rate of leg amputation varies at different times and among different troops, is shown by the following table from Chauvel: Siege of Antwerp, 22.7 per cent.; Paris (1830-1832), 62.5 per cent.; Denmark (1848-1850), 39.13 per cent.; Crimea (English), 34.52 per cent.; Crimea (French), 71.95 per cent.; Italy (Austrians), 74.29 per cent.; Italy (French), 66.57 per cent.; U. S. Army (1861-5), 26.02 per cent.; French (1870-1), 82.34 per cent.; Baden troops (1870-1), 35.4 per cent.; Hanoverians (1870-1), 36.5 per cent. Primary excision, though it may be here performed with far better prospect of recovery than in the thigh, is not to be recommended, since, in the great majority of the successful cases, an equally good if not better result might, in all probability, have been secured with less risk by the simple removal of detached splinters. At a later period, for necrosis, resection of either tibia or fibula may very properly be employed in preference to amputation, and even after removal of a considerable part of the shaft—seven inches in one of Chipault’s cases—much regeneration of bone may take place, and the patient may ultimately be able to walk very well with a little mechanical support. Almost always in civil life, and generally in the uncomplicated bullet- fractui’es met with in time of war, the treatment should be by expectancy, the death-rate of which is from one-third to one-half that of amputation, accord- ing as the statistics of that operation are taken including or excluding recent French cases. Associated vascular or nervous lesions do not absolutely contra-indicate an attempt to save a limb, nor, as we have already seen, does even an accompanying wound of the knee or ankle. Traumatic aneurism, if it is developed, may be treated by ligation at the place of injury, or at a dis- tance, on the proximal side—a method that answers decidedly better here than elsewhere. Venous hemorrhage, either primary or secondary, can gener- ally be controlled by compression. The same treatment will often prove suc- cessful in cases of bleeding from the veins of the thigh, though the applica- tion of a ligature is surer and safer.1 If, during the course of expectant treatment, the condition of the part or the general state of the patient renders it necessary, the limb can be removed, though with a greater probability of a fatal result than if the operation had been primarily resorted to.2 Even at a much later period, amputation may have to be performed, on account of deformity, pain, or simple uselessness of the limb; and the greater or less likelihood of the part having little or no functional value, if saved, must be taken into consideration in determining at the time of injury whether or not an attempt at preservation shall be made. The existence, therefore, of severe nerve-injuries, which are so apt to be followed by neuralgias, by trophic changes, and by secondary deformities from muscular contractures, will much influence the surgeon in deciding upon a primary amputation. While, however, it may be said, in a general way, that bullet-wounds of the thigh or leg should be treated expectantly rather than by operation, and while statistics support this statement, it must always be borne in mind that the value of numbers is apparent rather than real. The particular circum- stances of the individual cases, and of the special military operations in which the wounds have been received, must determine the course of treatment to be adopted, and not the simple fact that in so many thousand cases, collected 1 In a case reported by Despres, of ligation of the femoral vein near the apex of Scarpa’s tri- angle for secondary hemorrhage, “ neither oedema nor pain followed, the ligature separated in six days, and the man rapidly recovered.” 2 Of Beck’s 124 leg amputations, the mortality rate of the 66 primary operations was 33.33 per cent., of the 6 intermediary operations 66.67 per cent., and of the 52 secondary operations 40.38 per cent.