112 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. months after the receipt of the injury. (The operation, though done under the most unfavorable conditions as regarded its time and the state of the patient, was successful. The bleeding never recurred, and the final recovery of the patient was complete.) Let it be received then as a rule without exception, that an arrow head left behind and lodged in the tissues must be removed as soon as possible, even if this removal should require the severest and most dangerous of ope- rations. Accordingly, as soon as a patient presents himself, and, if possible, before the wound made by the shaft and head has closed, search should be made for the foreign body. A probe should be introduced, and carried along the course of the wound as far as possible, until the arrow bead is reached. If a false passage is made, the probe should be left where it has lodged, and a second one taken, and this manoeuvre repeated until the true passage is found. Of course the patient is placed in the attitude which he held when wounded, and the wound itself is injected with carbolized oil, so as to deaden sensibility and diminish reflex muscular action. If the probe has penetrated for some distance into the tissues, and if, though we feel sure that it has followed the course of the wound, its progress has become arrested, it is well to lay the wound open to the depth reached by the probe, using this as a guide. At the bottom of the wound so made, wTe may be able to find again the track of the arrow, or perhaps to feel the bead with the finger. In any event, such a wound is of trifling consequence in comparison with the important result that may be got from it. But sometimes the most patient and boldest searches fail to discover the arrow head. There is then nothing to do but to wait. Perhaps an abscess will form, and in it we may find the offending body. To save life, it may be necessary to amputate the limb. In these searches for hidden arrow heads, it should be remembered that the course of the arrow is always straight through the tissues, and that therefore an incision carried down in the direction which the arrow had on entering, will reach its head. There is greater hope then from exploratory incisions in arrow wounds than in gunshot wounds. But even if the probe, successfully carried through the wound, should strike the iron head, still, there might be doubt. Tbe foreign body is small and light, and usually presents, not its flat side, but its sharp edges to the contact of the probe. The finger only can give certainty, and to apply this instrument a long, deep incision may be necessary. Before making this, however, and in order to avoid doing so, a plan that I have practised, though unsuccessfully, may be tried. A pair of long, slender forceps may be introduced alongside of the probe, and carried on until the body sup- posed to be the arrow head is reached. Then the forceps are opened, and an effort is made to cause its jaws to strike the flat side of the head, one jaw above and the other below, the head lying between them as the forceps are shut and opened. The trouble which I found in this exploration, was to manipulate ordinary forceps in so deep and narrow a wound ; but the modi- fication of the Mathieu “crocodile” forceps which I have had made for ex- traction of balls (Fig. 231), would probably answer the purpose.1 If the head has been found, no hesitation or delay should occur in extract- 1 The magnetic probe of the writer may also be used with advantage in these cases of doubt. It consists of a steel probe, made from a coarse knitting needle, highly magnetized. Over one of the poles is wrapped from seventy-five to a hundred feet of No. 40 insulated copper wire, so as to form a spindle-shaped bulb, about an inch long and from a fifth to a quarter of an inch in diameter. This bulb is covered with catheter varnish, or asphaltum varnish. The steel magnet projects from the bulb from an eighth to a sixth of an inch, according to the length of the probe. The wires from the bulb are connected with the audient of a telephone. On touching the end of the magnet which projects beyond the bulb, to a bit of iron, a momentary, induced current of electricity is, at the time of contact, developed in the coil of wire forming the bulb, and this current, passing to the audient, manifests itself there by a grating click. (See American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1881.)