SYPHILIS IN ITS RELATIONS TO MARRIAGE. 583 patches, or round, red, flat, lentil-sized pimples, over the chest, abdomen, and forearms, unaccompanied by any sensation ? (12) Has the patient had, about the same time or a little later, certain grayish patches, with or without ulceration in the throat, on the lips, or on the tongue ? (I find patients call these either simply “sores” or “fever-blisters,” “cankers,” or “ulcerated sore throat;” they are among the most constant symptoms noted and remembered by patients when questioned as to their previous history.) Has the hair thinned or fallen out? Have there been any lentil-sized blackish crusts in the scalp at ditferent points? Have the mastoid or cervical lymphatic ganglia been enlarged at any time, or are they now ? (13) Examine by palpation the occipital region, where there may possibly still be found some ganglionic enlargement; these enlarged glands sometimes persist long after the disappearance of other syphilitic symptoms. (14) Examine the hair of the scalp: observe if this is thin, especially in the occi- pital and temporal regions; if it preserves its natural suppleness, or if it has become dry and harsh ; also see if there are any cicatrices, or small white patches, deprived of hair, here and there. (15) Examine the throat. If the tonsils and velum palati have been the seat of ulcerated mucous patches—a symptom rarely lacking in early generalized syphilis—the indelible vestige of these lesions can generally be recognized. The mucous membrane, instead of being smooth as it ordinarily is, presents an irregular surface of a rugous and shagreen-like appearance ; the edges of the velum and half arches have lost the sharpness of their contour ; they are rough and irregular, with more or less deep in- dentations. This symptom has only a relative value, since cauterization for any other affection of the fauces will produce the same effect. It should have weight as corrobo- rative evidence, however, when it is present. (16) It should be remembered that with many persons who have had syphilitic symp- toms, even long previously, the lips, the buccal mucous membrane, and particularly the edges and point of the tongue, show small whitish patches of a roundish or irregular contour. These patches are very persistent, and when present furnish very strong pre- sumptive evidence of former syphilis. (17) Examine the body, and particularly the back, shoulders, and legs, to see if there are not some cicatrices of former pustules. The scars are usually rounded, reticulated, and sharply circumscribed, this feature serving to distinguish them from burns; the latter are always more or less irregular. (Furuncles and acne pustules often have cicatrices quite undistinguishable from those of syphilis; the latter are very common over the back and shoulders, but are rarely found on the arms or legs.) The chest, the abdomi- nal region, the lower limbs, the palms of the hands, and the soles of the feet may like- wise present some spots or macules, with or without a depressed surface, their yellowish or coppery tint showing their age to a certain extent, being darker the more recently the lesions have existed. (18) The patches of tinea versicolor found on the trunk are sometimes taken for the erythematous syphiloderm, but a moment’s inquiry will show them to have lasted months or years, while the syphiloderm is acute and comparatively transient. The same may be said of the pigmented macules left after acne in dark-skinned persons. These will be found on inquiry to be connected with lesions often dating back to puberty. As to the third question, whether an individual who has had chancre, fol- lowed by subsequent generalized symptoms, may marry; of course, the answer must be negative if the symptoms are still manifest. But if they have dis- appeared months or years ago, then the question becomes more difficult to answer, and the first problem to resolve is this: is syphilis curable ? Without going into that question from a general point of view, I do not hesitate to say that for our present purpose syphilis is curable. Whether, however, any given case can he said definitely to be cured at a stated time, is a different question. And yet some such statement must be made if the patient is to he authorized to marry. Mild cases of syphilis, when the early symptoms follow one another at a normal interval and in a benign form, are not apt to relapse. The disease