543 SYPHILIS OF PERIOSTEUM AND BONE. Locality of the above lesions. Nose .... Tibia Palate Sternum Clavicle, maxillary, each Frontal Parietal, vertebra, each Scapula, ulna, radius, each 19 cases 15 “ 15 “ 5 “ 2 “ 2 “ 1 case 1 “ Syphilis of the Cervical Vertebrve.—-When the lesion is seated in the body of a vertebra, towards its anterior aspect, it forms a tumor in the pharynx. Together with difficulty of deglutition, which may even amount to danger of suffocation if too large a bolus of food is ingested, there are pain, chiefly nocturnal in character, difficulty of motion, and the characteristic attitude of cervical anchylosis. Death from inanition or dyspnoea may result if the tumor does not soften and break down into a pharyngeal abscess. The prognosis is even graver when the lesion is seated in the medullary cavity. The symptoms of compression, paralysis, or irritation of the spinal cord are very difficult of diagnosis, their cause, if not their nature, remaining obscure. If the lesion is confined to the transverse apophyses, some of the spinal nerves may be compressed, giving rise to difficulties of function, etc., according to the nerve pressed upon.1 Syphilis of the Cranium.—The headache which accompanies the appear- ance of gummata of the cranium, is so severe that it often leads to the sus- picion of deeper lesions. The patient is driven almost frantic by the pain of the bone lesion combined with that of direct pressure upon the cranium. Circumscribed gummata appear as slowly growing tumors on the forehead, temples, etc., and may attain considerable size, having hard, raised borders of bony tissue, the result of the productive osteitis caused by the irritative influence of the tumors. These tumors have little tendency to ulceration; they disappear very rapidly under the influence of iodide of potassium, but the bony growth around them, if well formed, remains. Relapse, however, takes place with great facility; the swelling begins to increase again as soon as the iodide of potassium is stopped, and these tumors may thus come and go for years. Diffuse gummatous infiltration of the cranial bones may lead to extensive ulceration and loss of substance, with denudation of the dura mater, and occa- sionally modification in the form of the cranium, through contraction follow- ing the absorption of bony tissue (see Fig. 332). Surgical interference in these cases should be undertaken only with great caution. When, however, a sequestrum keeps up irritation by its presence, its removal is justifiable and desirable. Iodide of potassium should be per- sistently administered in the mean time. Syphilis of the Bones of the Orbit.—The recognition of these lesions is extremely difficult, especially when the symptoms are not marked, being limited perhaps to slight oedema of the eyelids with local pain. Under these circumstances simple neuralgia is often diagnosticated, and quinine is admin- istered to the detriment of the patient. This mistake may be avoided by taking note of the nocturnal character of the pain, and by exploring the interior of the orbit with the index finger, as far as possible, when increasing 1 For a striking case of involvement of the lower dorsal or lumbar vertebrae, see Fournier, Cas du maladie de Pott d’origine syphilitique. Ann. de Derm, et de Syph., n. s. t. ii. p. 19