INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS.E. 732 nier and Picot, who demonstrated that it occurred in those whose vessels were even microscopically sound. Doubtless, however, where atheroma or endarte- ritis exists, it is a factor in the development of the disease. Poncet, in 1864,1 Duplay and Morat in 1873,2 Savory and Butlin in 1879,3 and other writers, have demonstrated a thickening of the endoneurium of the nerves of the part, resulting in partial destruction of the nerve-fibres. Some of these writers consider these changes to be secondary to the ulceration, while others, espe- cially Messrs. Savory and Butlin, believe that they are the cause of the dis- ease, and that the sensory and nutritive fibres mainly suffer, while the “motor fibres escape owing to their larger size and thicker medullary sheaths.” As before said, I believe that there are probably three varieties of perforat- ing ulcer, viz.: (1) one arising from a suppurating bursa beneath a corn in healthy subjects, and without subsequent bone disease ; (2) a second, arising as the first, but in subjects of a strumous or broken-down constitution, and end- ing in extensive destruction of the bones, etc.; and (3) a third, where there is either primarily, as is most probable, or secondarily, disease of the nerves, which is accompanied by anaesthesia of the parts. My reasons for not think- ing that all severe cases of perforating ulcer are due to a neurotic element, have been partially given already, but I shall now present a few other reasons, as briefly as possible. Not all cases of this disease are accompanied by anaesthe- sia, but some on the contrary are painful. The disease is limited to the anterior segment of the foot. A Pirogoff or Syme amputation is almost invariably successful, though such an operation only insures that the integu- ments of the stump are such as are tough and habituated to pressure, while they can produce no more effect upon a nerve lesion than partial amputations through other portions of the foot, which latter, however, fail, because ulce- ration from pressure, etc., soon arises in the abnormally placed and compara- tively tender skin which in them forms the flaps at the joints pressed upon; the anaesthesia may extend to the knee, yet after a Syme or Pirogoff amputa- tion the disease does not usually recur. Finally, the view that this disease is caused by the atrophy of the sensory and trophic fibrils is purely theoreti- cal, especially in view of the great doubt as to whether the latter exist at all. Upon the other hand, similar ulcerations have been observed in cases of locomotor ataxia, anaesthetic leprosy, and progressive muscular atrophy, and in cases of compression of nerve trunks; and I would suggest that certain of the so-called cases of perforating ulcer should—and would, if the patients were more carefully examined—be classed among the mild and obscure cases of some of the affections just mentioned. I do not deny that there may be a neurotic form of perforating ulcer, but believe that the affection is not in- variably of that character, and that in the present state of our knowledge we cannot say positively what share the altered nerves have in producing the disease. I may now briefly recapitulate the distinctive features of perforating ulcer, which render it difficult to confound with any other disease, even with that most resembling it, the so-called tubercular disease of the foot. (1) It commences by corns under the metatarso-phalangeal joints ; (2) It is confined to the ante- rior part of the foot; (3) There is offensive sweating of the foot; (4) There is no evidence of tubercle; (5) There is only moderate swelling; (6) The disease—or rather the tendency to it—is hereditary.4 1 Rec. de Mem. de Med. de Cliir. et de Pharm. Milit., 1864. 2 Archives Gen. de Med., Mars, Avril, Mai, 1873. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Trans., second series, vol. xliv. 1879, pp. 373—393, with plates. 4 See Hancock on the Anatomy and Surgery of the Human Foot, 1873, pp. 59—76 ; also Nelaton, Gaz. des Hopitaux, Paris, Jan. 1852; Vesigne, loc. cit., Fev. 1852, and. the other authors men- tioned in the body of this section. '