SYPHILIS. 580 Calomel may also be used in ointment of half the above strength, that is, from ten to twenty grains to the ounce. A very good, drying ointment, which may be used in moist papules or small ulcers, is the following :— R—Hydrarg. clilor. mitis, gr. x—xxx. Pulv. zinci oxidi, 3j- Ung. aquae rosae, 3j. M. Oleate of mercury in the strength of from five to ten per cent, is a very good application in the dry and scaly eruptions, particularly those occurring on the palms and soles, while an ointment like the following may often be used with advantage in ulcerative lesions:— R—Hydrarg. oleat. (5-20 per cent.), Yaselini, aa ^ss. M. I rarely employ the unguentum hydrargyri as a local application, because it is a dirty looking substance, and no more efiicient than the white preci- pitate ointment given above. In addition to the plasters which have been mentioned in previous parts of this article, the following may be recommended as particularly useful in those chronic and indurated scaly eruptions of the palm which are so rebellious to treatment of any kind:— R—Hydrargyri, 5j. Terebinthinas, 3j* Emplast. plumbi, 3’jss> Resinse, 3ss. M. This makes an exceedingly tenacious plaster which may be applied to the palm, previously softened by repeated dipping in very hot water. It may be rubbed in, or, better, spread upon one or more strips of muslin arranged so as to wrinkle as little as possible, and changed once a day or oftener. I have found this to succeed in obstinate cases when all else has failed. Tuberculous and gummato-tuberculous ulcers of the leg are frequently benefited by strapping, bandaging, elastic stockings, etc., and when, as is sometimes the case, they tend to erysipelas-like inflammation, cold lead- water on cloths or in poultices should be temporarily employed. Finally, let me once more urge the necessity of extreme cleanliness and the removal of all crusts, scales, and discharge, before the application of local treatment of any kind. Syphilis in its Relations to Marriage. Physicians are not infrequently consulted by individuals who have con- tracted syphilis, or who believe themselves to have contracted this affection, regarding their intended marriage; and it is of great importance that the answer given should not be misleading, for the health and happiness of two persons at least may be affected by it, and the consequences of a mistake may influence an unborn generation for evil. It will not do, on the one hand, to sternly repel such persons with the simple and categorical refusal to give medical sanction to the intended union. Sometimes this is done when the history of infection dates back to a remote past, and when no symptoms of syphilis have shown themselves for years. Now and then even the suspicion of the patient’s having had syphilis is suffi- cient to induce his physician to forbid the banns. The misery and immorality to which such restriction almost necessarily tends to give rise, should cause the conscientious physician to hesitate before