100 POISONED WOUNDS. 1 British Medical Journal, Oct. 16, 1880, p. 633. W. T., aged 7, a very stout and healthy boy, was bitten severely in the left forefinger, between the knuckle and the first joint, by a rat which he had caught. Fearing pun- ishment for playing in the street, he concealed the real nature of the injury for two weeks, when I was called to see him. The soft parts about the phalanx were now (June 11) enormously swollen, purplish red, and shining, the hand was somewhat putfy, and a gland as large as a chestnut was felt in the anterior fold of the axilla. The boy had some fever, especially at night, and was listless, and without appetite. Next day 1 made a free incision into his swollen finger, but very little pus escaped. He was put on the use of the muriated tincture -of iron, with a febrifuge at night, and poultices were applied locally. The symptoms all subsided; but on June 18, I was again called to see the patient, as he had a chain of small glandular enlargements all the way up the forearm and arm, while the swollen gland in the axilla had increased to the size of a walnut. By the third day, under hot sponging, all the lumps had gone ; but on June 27., he pre- sented a most curious phenomenon ; patches, as if the skin had been bruised, very slightly raised, of a pale-purplish, brown, mottled color, extended up the radial side of the forearm, and around the front of the arm to the axilla, up in front of the shoulder, and on the side of the neck to the head. One separate patch existed on the middle of the forearm, and another near the anterior axillary fold. A large patch occupied the axilla. Many similar but less vivid patches existed on the body, and even down on the legs. Each patch had a red rim, clearly marking the line between it and the healthy skin. The only tender patch was that on the left side of the neck ; but the boy com- plained somewhat of soreness, apparently muscular, all over his body. There was no stiffening of the jaws, nor other sign of tetanus. For several nights there was high fever. Under the steady use of the iron, with hot sponging, all these symptoms abated, and on July 2, I ceased attendance. On July 15,1 saw the patient again, and found that he occasionally had a re-appearance of the patches, but very faint, and with no constitutional symptoms. The phenomena here, as in most cases of poisoning by the bites of animals (excepting always the specific ones before referred to), seem to have been those of lymphangeitis, with, in this instance, a very mild attack of septicae- mia supervening. But they may assume a far graver type; thus Kocher reports a case of acute sepsis, with embolic pyaemia proving fatal in forty- eight hours, which followed the application of a leech to the gum.1 With regard to the treatment of all these cases, it can only be said that it must he based on general principles. Local inflammation is to be combated, and the strength of the patient maintained; the special means of effecting these objects have been elsewhere detailed, and need not be repeated here.