365 TREATMENT OF GONORRIKEA. For the same purpose, and at the same stage of the disease, a powder of tartar emetic and bitartrate of potassium has been found of great use, as has also the addition, to either of the above mixtures, of half a fluidraclim of the tincture of belladonna.1 Instructions should next be given as to the best method of retaining such dressings as will serve to collect and absorb the discharge. The use of the India-rubber bags sold for this purpose, the tying of strings or tapes around Fig. 315. Dressing of absorbent cotton applied to glans penis. the body of the penis, and the employment of any warm or cumbersome dressing are decidedly hurtful. Either by preventing evaporation, and thus keeping the penis bathed in a warm, moist atmosphere, or, as it were, poulticed, or else by mechanically interfering with the venous current and exciting erections, they often seem de- cidedly to aggravate the disease. If the fore- skin quite covers the glans penis, the very best dressing consists of a little morsel of absorbent cotton placed over the meatus, and retained within the preputial orifice (Fig. 315). If it nearly covers the glans, but does not extend to the meatus, a small aperture should be cut in the centre of a piece of patent lint or old linen, 2J to 3 inches square; this should be stretched gently with the fingers until just large enough to slip over the head of the penis, and back of the corona (Fig. 316). The ends should then be turned forward, and the foreskin brought in the same direction, when it will serve to hold the lint Application of lint-dressing to glans penis. 1 At this stage of gonorrhcea, the late Dr. John Neill, of Philadelphia, was in the habit of administering the following powder :— —Potass, bitart. Potass, nitrat. 3”j- Antimon. et potass, tart. gr. j. M. ft. chart, no. xij. Sig.—One powder in water three times daily. Mr. Reginald Harrison (Lectures on the Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs) believes that alkalies are not indicated in acute cystitis, and says that “ the urine is. less irritating in its normal acid condition.” Fig. 316.