ABSCESSES. 266 tion, extensive burrowing, sloughing of tendons, the formation of adhesions and of disfiguring scars—these and other results will be alluded to in the section relating to treatment. But there are other complications which may claim attention under the present heading. Hemorrhage.—Although vessels in the neighborhood of an abscess are often obliterated by plugging, so that hemorrhage is guarded against, this provision may fail, and, as the abscess enlarges, a principal artery or vein may be opened. In the case of a man aged 37, three days after a large abscess in the side of the neck had been opened, so profuse a hemorrhage suddenly occurred that the patient fell back in bed, and seemed to have expired. Bleeding ceased for a time, but soon recurred, and an attempt was made to secure the vessel that had given way, and which was believed to be one of the divisions of the common carotid. The attempt, however, failed, as the perforation was situated out of reach, near the base of the skull. The common carotid was therefore tied, and the wound was firmly plugged; but the patient rapidly sank. On examination, it was found that the abscess-cavity was in a sloughing condition, and that a large perforation had occurred in the wall of the internal carotid, close to the base of the skull. A man aged 23, while resting quietly in bed with caries of the lumbar spine and a large psoas abscess, was suddenly attacked with the symptoms of internal hemor- rhage ; he became pale and restless, and sweated profusely, and his pulse was rapid and scarcely perceptible. It was observed also that the abscess in the sheath of the psoas had much increased in size and had become painful, and was much firmer and more tense than it had previously been. He died in the course of thirty hours. Post- mortem examination showed that the abscess had extended into the aorta, in the side of which there was an opening nearly a quarter of an inch in diameter. The cavity of the abscess was distended with a large quantity of blood mixed with the pus it had previously contained. A still more remarkable instance of this formidable accident may be briefly related. A patient wras admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, in whom an alarming hemor- rhage had suddenly taken place from some sinuses connected with a small glandular abscess in the groin, following gonorrhoea. On examination, after death, which occurred from exhaustion, it was found that both the femoral artery and vein had been laid open by ulceration connected with the abscess-cavity. Two cases have lately been met with, in one of which the gluteal artery was opened by ulceration extending into it from an abscess travelling outward through the sacro- sciatic foramen, and another in which the internal pudic was perforated by an abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital is a specimen showing perforation of the arch of the aorta, in a boy aged 8 years, by an abscess formed in the anterior mediastinum. If a large chronic abscess, on the first occasion of interference, be com- pletely evacuated, either by the aspirator or by incision, the vessels of its walls, suddenly deprived of their accustomed support, may become turgid, and free oozing into the cavity may result. This may be a troublesome occurrence when the abscess is so placed that efficient pressure cannot be employed, and if the patient be already much exhausted. In a boy aged 9, with advanced hip-disease, bleeding into the cavity of an abscess in front of the thigh, opened by incision, proved very persistent, and could only be arrested by the injection of a strong solution of perchloride of iron. Similar oozing is occasionally met with after the opening of large abscesses in the neighborhood of the abdomen, as, for instance, in the iliac fossa. Communication with Internal Cavities. — Abscesses sometimes make their way into the mucous or serous cavities of the body. Instances in