310 GANGRENE AND GANGRENOUS DISEASES. Ergotism. This form of gangrene, referred to by the older writers, seems to have passed away from modern observation, and, in view of the very free use of ergot at the present time without the results heretofore described, there may be a serious doubt as to whether the disease was not largely due to the straitened and impoverished condition of the patients who had taken the ergotized rye and wheat. Nevertheless, the descriptions that have been given us seem to point to this as the determining cause of the gangrene. Looked upon during the middle ages as a miraculous punishment, directly inflicted by the hand of the Deity, the first accurate account of this affection seems to have been that given by the Professors of the Marburg Medical Faculty, in 1597; but from that time the malady appeared at different intervals, and prevailed extensively in Europe, causing, as is said, sometimes only spas- modic affections, but oftener gangrene of the extremities. It was well described by Langius as occurring in some counties of Switzerland, in 1715 and 1716:— “After excessive lassitude,” he says, “more or less protracted, and unaccompanied with fever, the extremities became painful, cold, and rigid. Benumbed and almost in- sensible, the limbs were yet capable of movement, though with difficulty. There was great pain, which was increased by heat, but abated somewhat upon exposure to a cooler temperature. Pain extended by degrees from the toes to the legs and thighs, from the fingers to the arms and shoulders, until, sphacelus supervening, the affected parts, dead and black, dropped from the trunk or the adjacent members. Remarkable as it may appear, the general health appeared to be but little affected, with the exception of slight febrile heat, increase of pain, and copious perspiration. Those with whose food ergot had been sparingly mixed were only affected with a sense of weight in the head, and drowsiness, sometimes followed by transient intoxication.” A very fatal epidemic of this kind raged in Solognes in 1747. Vetillart, in 1770, gave the following example of its virulence:— “ A poor man of Noyen, in Maine, seeing a farmer sifting his rye, begged the refuse to make bread with. The farmer cautioned him as to the danger of using it, but hunger prevailed over fear. The siftings, composed chiefly of ergot, were ground and made into bread. In the space of a month the poor man, his wife, and two of his children perished miserably. The third, an infant at the breast, who had eaten panada made with this flour, escaped death, but was deprived of both legs, and became deaf and dumb.” A spasmodic form of this disease was described, as it existed in districts of Bohemia in 1736, by Serine, who declared that he had seen about five hun- dred cases. He described it as commencing with a sense of tingling or itching in the feet, followed by severe cardialgia. A tingling sensation, compared to the bites of ants, was followed by violent contractions of the hands and feet, affecting each particular joint, and resem- bling the pain of dislocation. The patients complained that the han(ls and feet were burned, the body being bathed in copious sweats. After these pains—which were inter- mittent, having sometimes intervals of two or three days—the sufferers were affected with drowsiness, giddiness, and indistinctness of vision, and staggered in walking. Some became maniacal, some melancholy, and others comatose. Those beyond the age of puberty were liable to epilepsy, and died. An enormous appetite generally accom- panied this train of evils. In one case, spots appeared on the feet, resembling the bites of flies, and remained to the end of the eighth week. The faces of many were exten- sively covered with these spots. In those who recovered, the disease rarely abated before the third week, while in many it continued for one or two months. Dr. Wollaston, in 1762, described the attack of a family, composed of hus- band, wife, and six children, all of whom were affected by this disease.