680 DISEASES OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. been freely moved, if the patient is strong enough to bear the loss of blood, half a dozen leeches may be applied over the inflamed part, and free bleeding promoted by hot fomentations. Twenty or thirty grains of quinine should be given at the same time, in one dose, or in divided doses within two or three hours. If the pain and swelling continue, a deep incision should be made without delay into the inflamed tissue of the fossa, whether pus has or has not formed. If the disease has existed three or four days before the attention of the surgeon is called to it, no time should be wasted with leeches or poultices, but an incision should be made large enough to prevent all bur- rowing of pus in an upward direction. If the incision is made sufficiently early, a fistula in ano will not occur. Even in cases where the cellulitis is the result of ulceration of the bowel and the subsequent escape of fecal matter into the cellular tissue, an early incision will limit the destruction of tissue around the anus and rectum. When the incision is made, charcoal poultices are to be applied for two or three days, or while there is a free purulent dis- charge externally. Every time that the poultice is changed, the wound should be washed with carbolized water or other disinfecting material. When the poultices are discontinued, the carbolized water dressing (two per cent, solution) will generally be sufficient to keep the wound clean, and to promote the growth of granulations. As the wound made by the surgeon is at least an inch in depth, it will be necessary to pack it from the bottom after each washing, with charpie wet with carbolized water, carbolized oil, or balsam of Peru. When the granula- tions are full and flabby, as they often are in this situation, the solution of chloral hydrate or potassium permanganate may be sometimes advantageously substituted for those previously mentioned. In all cases where the system is depressed, tonics and cod liver-oil are very useful adjuvants in the treatment. If a communication between the rectum and the external integument has been established, the whole fistulous tract should be laid open without delay. It is better to make one operation of the whole, than to wait two or three weeks or months, as is usually done, for the cellulitis to subside, and then to open fistulous tracts. The prompt and efficient opening of the whole fistula will shorten the period of confinement to bed, and diminish the sufferings of the patient. Peri-Urethral Cellulitis may arise from injuries or operations on the urethra or perineum. There are two forms of this disease, viz., one in which the inflammation occurs in small isolated patches in the penile portion of the urethra; and a second, in which it forms one continuous mass between the layers of the triangular ligament behind the bulb. In the former, the in- flammation occupies, in the majority of cases, the neighborhood of the glans penis. It may arise from contusion or from straining during prolonged and violent sexual intercourse, or from laceration of urethral fibres during an attack of chordee; or it may follow an attack of gonorrhoea when there is no history of injury during copulation. This, however, does not preclude the possi- bility of injury having occurred. I am inclined to the opinion that all cases, whether occurring with or without gonorrhoea—except those following chor- dee—are the result of contusion in sexual intercourse. The symptoms are obscure at first, especially if the cellulitis is accompanied by gonorrhoea, because the scalding which occurs in the latter during mictu- rition, and the soreness during the intervals of micturition, obscure the cir- cumscribed pain of the former affection. The first abnormal symptom which generally attracts the attention of the patient is the formation of a small, hard mass close to the urethra, ranging in size from the bulk of a pea to that of a