COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 55 open wounds, there are, consequently, essential points of practice to he ob- served, in order that good results may be obtained; and these are not unlike those which have been laid down for the treatment of open wounds. That is to say, the injured parts are to be placed as far as possible in a position of ease, and in one in which the contact of the divided tissues is assured, when contact is called for. The parts are, moreover, to he fixed by splints, band- ages, or other dressings, in a condition of absolute immobility. The seat of injury is to he protected from all outside injurious influences, and to be sup- ported by moderate pressure; and, what is more, is to be undisturbed, in order that neither by manipulation nor movement shall repair be retarded; for a subcutaneous wound is as susceptible to injury from mechanical interference as is an open wound. In treating the wounds made by the operations of subcutaneous surgery, the same principles of practice are applicable, and they are well summed up by Adams as follows:— “There are certain conditions which must coexist to render the subcutaneous opera- tions exempt from inflammation. These conditions are : 1st. That the knife used must be of small size. 2d. That the operation must be performed quickly and neatly, with decision rather than force, and with as little disturbance to the soft parts as possible. 3d. That the wound must be immediately closed, and a compress and bandage applied, so as to prevent effusion, and to support the part. 4th. That perfect quiescence to the part be insured for three or four days, and the dressing remain undisturbed. When all these conditions are strictly observed, it matters little whether large muscles, or ten- dons, or ligaments are divided; or even whether the large joints of the body are opened.” From all this, it is to be gathered that in the treatment of subcutaneous wounds, whether of accidental or operative origin, there are four essential requisites to be provided for, viz., Position, Immobility, Pressure to support the parts, and Time for repair to perfect itself. Complications of Wounds. On the well-founded assumption that a wound, when made into healthy tissues in a healthy subject, will heal by natural processes if placed in the most favorable position for repair, and not interfered with, it cannot well be disputed, when a wound does not heal thus kindly, that there must be some obstacle or hindrance to its natural progress ; and this will doubtless be found either in the nature of the wound itself, or the mode in which it has been treated, or in the peculiarities of the subject of the wound, or the surround- ings of the case. When the hindrance is due to the wound itself, or to its treatment, it may be that some foreign body has been left to irritate; that the hemorrhage which ensued primarily on its receipt has not been effectually arrested, and that a clot has formed between the edges of the wound ; that a “ recurring” bleed- ing has taken place within a day or so after the infliction of the wound and its first dressing, from some imperfection in the treatment of the bleeding vessels, or from excessive reaction; or that a collection of serum has been allowed to form in the depths of the injured tissues. In most of these cases, the causes of non-repair are clearly referable to a want of care or skill on the part of the surgeon who has had the early treatment of the case, and must be set down as preventable causes. By the same want of care, the edges of the wound may not have been properly adjusted or kept in apposition; the injured limb may not have been made immobile; and, as a result, spasmodic muscular movements and jumpings of the limb may have been excited ;