SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 624 are readily disposed to overgrowth (Keratosis senilis), that the affection attains its greatest development. The effect upon the individual varies with the seat of the hypertrophy. Upon the hands, deformity of the finger tips and blunting of the tactile sense are the chief results, although splitting of the brittle tissue occasionally leads to the formation of painful cracks.^ Upon the toes, however, a similar degree of deformity interferes with the wearing of proper foot coverings, and pressure leads to inflammation of the underly- ing or surrounding parts. Lateral hypertrophy, or an increase in the super- ficial area of the nail, by pressure upon the lateral folds, is one of the causes of that most painful affection, “ in-growing toe nail,” or Paronychia lateralis. Inflammation of the Matrix. (Synonyms: Paronychia; Onychia.)— Though hypertrophy of the nail-plate is not always the 9ause of this inflam- mation of the fold of the nail, yet, however primarily produced, it presses against the edge of the nail, and produces the same painful effect as if the nail itself were absolutely enlarged. I11 whatever way induced, the fold near the free margin of the nail becomes red and swollen, and at first somewhat painful on pressure. At a later period, the part suppurates, leaving an ulcer which discharges a fetid fluid ; or red, spongy granulations arise, which are excessively sensitive to the touch, and which grow above and over the surface of the nail. The lateral edge of the nail, thus freed from its fold, seems to dip down into the inflamed bed tissues, and causes intense pain when an ordi- nary boot is worn, especially during walking. The inflammation extends at times along the whole edge, and on both sides, of the toe nail, and occasion- ally affects all the intermediate tissues of the part, so that almost any motion becomes intolerable. Treatment.—For simple hypertrophy, without accompanying inflammation, when the deformity is sufficient to seriously interfere with the uses or proper appearance of the foot, or when it threatens to cause inflammation of its sur- roundings, removal of the offending portion is necessary. Hails which are greatly thickened and prolonged in the form of claws, and those which are elevated like horns, may be trimmed down to their normal dimensions with strong scissors, with a fine saw, or with the knife, but it must not be forgotten that the elongated vascular papillae extend upwards into such outgrowths to a considerable extent above the general surface, and that they must at times be cut across in the operation. They, too, should be removed as deeply as possible with scissors, and the bleeding surface should be cauterized with the perchloride of iron. In this way the redevelopment of the exuberant nail tissue may be generally prevented. For lateral hypertrophy without thick- ening, or for incurving before inflammation has been established, the an- terior edges of the nail should be frequently trimmed as closely as pos- sible. Blunt scissors should be introduced as far as possible, without causing pain, beneath the nail at either edge, and a cut should be made obliquely backwarks towards the lateral fold. The wedge-shaped piece thus cut, should be removed by the forceps. When inflammation is already estab- lished, and suppuration or granulation of the lateral fold exists (Paronychia lateralis), mere trimming or paring the nail is of little service. Formerly, the entire nail was under these circumstances commonly torn away from its bed, but this operation is unnecessarily severe, as the same radical result may be obtained by removing only a narrow, marginal portion. After etherizing the patient, the nail is divided with a scalpel from its root to its anterior edge, near the lateral border, by a deep incision. The ingrowing portion is then dissected away from the lateral fold and bed, to its extreme root, and removed. [The operation may be readily performed with sharp-pointed scissors, one