THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. 416 and upper thirds, first pricking open the apertures of hair follicles, and then rubbing the pus into them. The result in the course of three or four days was three well- marked pustules. From each of these I inoculated one new spot upon the same arm, nearer the wrist. The result was three new well-marked pustules. From each of the three second series I again inoculated fresh spots still nearer the wrist, and again the result was positive. The second series was hardly as well marked as the first, and the third series was slightly inferior in vigor to the second ; still all were well marked, the nine sores being at the same time upon my arm. On removal of the crusts, percep- tible ulceration of the skin was found to exist. Zeissl, with whom I was studying at the time (1807-8), happened to be lecturing upon dualism, and requested me to show my arm to the class to prove the production of ulceration from properly inoculated simple pus. There were no buboes in my case, nor did the ulcerations require other treatment than exclusion from the air by means of a simple dressing and cleanliness. The scars remain to the present day.” The next experiments which I find recorded1 are those made by M. Vidal, physician to the St. Louis Hospital, of Paris, which are published in the “ Annales de Dermatologie et de Syphiligraphie” for 1872 and 1873, fourth year, page 350. He commences his article with the statement that in 1846, during his service as interne in the hospital of Tours, he had several times seen his “ chef de service,” Hr. Frederick Leclerc, inoculate the (pus) matter of ecthymatous pustules which were developed in the course of typhoid fever, upon the patients who had furnished the pustules. “ These pustules,” he says, “ were frequently followed by the development of new pustules of ecthyma, identical with those from which the matter had been obtained.” In 1852 and 1853, under the auspices of M. Vigla, and during an epidemic of typhoid fever, he undertook some fresh experiments. Two inoculations were made upon healthy men, who had never had typhoid fever, with pus taken from pustules of ecthyma in a typhoid fever patient. Both the inocu- lations were negative. The rest of the experiments were made upon the bearers of the ecthyma from whom the pus was obtained, and he asserts that in one-third of the cases he succeeded in producing pustules of inoculation. He does not give the number of the experiments which he made, nor the histories of the cases, except those of four patients. I give them here in some detail:— Case I R., aged 20, entered January 18, 1853, with an ataxo-adynamic typhoid fever of 15 days’ duration. On January 26, an abundant eruption of ecthymatous pustules appeared upon the thighs, together with furuncles, an abscess on the chest, and the formation of a slough over the sacrum. On February 3, pus was taken from one of the ecthymatous pustules of the thigh, and three inoculations were made upon the patient’s left forearm. That same evening a slight redness appeared around two of the inoculated points. On February 4, the redness had extended, the skin was a little swollen, and a hard kernel could be felt. On the 5th, this had increased in size, and had commenced to point. On the 7th, four days after the inoculation, two perfectly characteristic pustules were seen, which dried up in 4 or 5 days. On the 8th, a fresh inoculation was made, and was successful. In this experiment Dr. E. Vidal introduced some dust and some of the patient’s ex- pectoration beneath the skin, in order to test the question whether it was simply irri- tation, or the pus-corpuscles themselves, which gave the successful issue to the experi- ment. These attempts were entirely unsuccessful. Case II In this case, on March 1, the 19th day of the disease, a cluster of ecthymatous pustules appeared upon the thigh. At the morning visit, an inoculation was made upon each arm. In the evening there was a slight redness at the inoculated points. On the 5th, the fourth day after the experiment, two very characteristic pus- 1 Although these experiments were professedly made in 1853, they were not published until 1873. Hence they are placed here, although they antedate Pick’s experiments by eleven years.