SURGICAL DISEASES OF TIIE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 620 conical or wedge-shaped mass below the ordinary level of the cuticle, and en- croaching upon the corium below. When driven by pressure down upon the sensitive papillary layer, it is evident that the corn must cause pain, and it may in time produce atrophy of the underlying papillae. Corns, too, are developed by pressure, and generally upon parts immediately above promi- nent protuberances of bone. The centre of the growth, the part of earliest formation, which forms the apex of the cone-shaped, downward projection of hardened epithelial cells, is called the “ core.” Corns may be caused by the direct pressure of an ill-fitting boot upon any portion of the surface of the foot in contact with it, or from two opposing surfaces of the skin being unduly pressed together, as in the case of the corns which occur between the toes. It is possible, however, for corns to arise without marked pressure, or spontaneously, as it is said, upon the hands as well as upon the feet. When situated be- tween the toes, the appearance of these growths is quite unlike that of the yellow, horny masses which present themselves elsewhere, being soft, flaccid, and white, owing to partial maceration from the confined moisture of the parts; here they are called “ soft corns.” All corns are painful upon pressure, the wedge of hardened cells being driven down as a foreign body upon “ the quick,” and they are more painful when the surrounding and underlying tis- sues are temporarily distended with blood from overheating, or from inflam- mation, to which they are liable from oft-repeated irritation. The pain of an “ inflamed corn” is excessive when pus is imprisoned beneath the hardened mass. Treatment.—As corns generally arise from tight or ill-fitting shoes, much may be done for their relief, or even removal, by the disuse of such coverings. Pressure should be taken off from the parts affected, by the use of thick rings of felt. Corns may be softened and soothed by frequent soaking in warm water or saleratus water, when the outer layer of the growth can be removed by scraping, or the whole corn may be dug out with the point of a knife. Softening plasters made of pitch or diachylon are sometimes used for the same purpose. The hardening process, on the other hand, may be often em- ployed with advantage; painting the surface of the corn at bedtime with tincture of iodine, or with a strong solution of chromate of potassium, and removing with a blunt knife the upper layers of the growth thus acted upon, before the next application. Nitrate of silver may be used for the same pur- pose, especially upon corns situated between the toes, the opposing surfaces here being kept constantly apart by bits of linen cloth dusted with starch powder, or with equal parts of starch and oxide of zinc. The inflamed corn should be treated with caution, by the horizontal position and complete rest of the foot, and by fomentations or leeches, if necessary. Cutting in this con- dition sometimes leads to serious results, such as inflammation of the bursa which is often found beneath the corn, and the patient may be attacked by lymphangeitis, erysipelas, or gangrene. Horns. (Synonym: Cornu cutaneumi.)—Human horns are outgrowths of epidermal tissue of various shapes and sizes, closely resembling, when they attain any considerable length, the analogous formations upon the heads of some ruminants. Their structure is dense, like the nail; their color is yel- low or gray, brown or blackish; their surface is more or less smooth, and marked by parallel, longitudinal grooves; their shape is conical, upon abroad base, or elongated and cylindrical, more or less twisted and bent, and termi- nating in a blunt or pointed tip. On cross section, they are circular, irregu- larly oval, or angular, and deeply furrowed. Their maximum diameter may be one or two inches, and their length, in exceptional instances, possibly half a foot. They may be single, or may occur in considerable numbers, and their