GONORRHOEA. 392 the vulvo-femoral folds and may he seen for some distance down the thigh, and which in chronic cases often becomes of a purplish or dusky brown color, look- ing like the pigmentation following an old syphiloderm, for which it should not be mistaken. The passage of the urine across the inflamed surfaces gives rise to an intense burning, which may be mistaken for the ardor urinte of urethritis, and is often quite as severe. Complications.—Bubo.—The inguinal glands are apt to he enlarged and tender, and sometimes suppurate. Bubo is, however, also less common in the female than in the male, and when it does occur, is almost always associ- ated with this form of gonorrhoea, or with a urethritis. The sebaceous and muciparous follicles, underlying the vulvar mucous mem- brane, which extends into and lines them, are frequently involved in the inflammation which spreads by continuity into their cavities, occludes their mouths by exudation into the submucous tissue, and causes them to project above the surface of the vulva as little elevations, visible to the sight and sensible to the touch. Vulvo-vaginal Abscess.—In other cases inflammation follows the ducts of Bartholin’s glands, and excites suppuration or abscess in these bodies, which are compound tubular glands, situated one on either side of the entrance of the vagina, surrounded by a fibrous envelope, and during sexual orgasm pouring into the vagina, just anterior to the hymen, a milky, albuminous fluid. In acute cases of this complication—vulvo-vaginal abscess (Plate VII. Fig. 4)—- there are heat, pain, redness, and tenderness of the inflamed part; which signs, together with the peculiar pyriform swelling, serve to facilitate the recogni- tion of the condition. In the early stages, the swelling can most readily be recognized by putting a finger in the vagina, and pressing outwards towards the ramus of the ischium. The abscess will sometimes evacute itself spon- taneously through the duct of the gland, or at the inner surface of the nymphse; or the pus may work its way between the layers of the ischio-pubic fascia, and escape just within the labium majus; but its cure can usually be hastened by a prompt and free incision made through the mucous membrane at the inner and lower aspect of the tumor. Suppuration in these glands has a peculiar tendency to recur, and the accumulation of pus and the consequent swelling will often take place, after a first attack, without any marked symptoms of inflammation. Under these circumstances—particularly if pressure on the tumor does not cause the appearance of pus at the orifice of the duct—it is possible, in exceptional cases, to mistake the condition for a pudendal hernia, for a cyst, for a hydrocle of the round ligament, or for oedema of the cellular tissue of the labium. The differential points in the diagnosis of vulvo-vaginal abscess from the three first-mentioned affections maybe contrasted as follows:— Chronic Vulvo-vagi- nal Abscess.1 History of previous inflammation. Pudendal Hernia. Sudden appearance. Cyst of the Labium. Slow, painless growth. Hydrocele of the Round Ligament. No previous inflam mat ion. 1 Abscess of the vulvo-vaginal gland, which is very common in consequence of venereal excess, especially during menstruation, is also met with as a complication of mucous patches. In this case the labium of one side is swollen, cedematous, and deformed by an enlargement situated at the inferior part of the vulva. Fluctuation is readily felt beneath the skin, distended by the purulent fluid, and by puncture a considerable quantity of pus mixed with blood is dis- charged. The mucous glands which are seated below the urethra, in the vestibule, may also be inflamed, and form a small cup-shaped ulcer about one and a half millimetres in diameter ; its margin is usually formed of normal mucous membrane.