WOUNDS. 24 and got rid of, either by molecular disintegration or by a coarser, sloughing process, before the act of healing can rightly be said to begin; and under these circumstances be will at once recognize the futility of entertaining a hope of obtaining the repair of the wound by quick union. Constitutional Condition op Patient.—Of the causes of non-repair which are to be put down to the account of the subject of the wound, age is all impor- tant, the reparative process in a man on the wrong side of fifty being conducted with less vigor than in one who is on the right side. In the very old, repair is at its lowest mark. The same remarks are applicable to patients who are the sub- jects of organic disease, or of degenerative changes in their tissues, and especially to fat and soft-tissued people; the old in years, or in infirmities, not possess- ing the recuperative powers of the young and vigorous. Under these circum- stances, in the case of a wound resulting from accident or operation, in a patient over fifty years of age, or in one in ill health, it would be wrong for a surgeon to expect, or to rely upon securing, a mode of repair which, in a younger or healthier subject, he might reasonably look for; people who are advanced in years, or who are feeble from frailty or disease, particularly visceral disease, have no or an insufficient capital at the bank of health to draw upon. Of all subjects for wounds, whether accidental or operative, the habitual drunkard is the worst. Defects in Treatment.—Of the causes of non-repair which are to be attrib- uted to treatment, a want of due care in maintaining the injured or wounded part in a state of rest, claims the first place, for in such a delicate process as is that of repair, it is plain that in any movement of the injured part, whether in the way of separation of surfaces or manipulation, the process may be inter- fered with or retarded, or the work already accomplished undone. Indeed, since it is certain that the best and most rapid repair of an injured part takes place when the wounded tissue is kept in an absolutely immovable position, and when the wounded surface is protected from all external influences that can possibly interfere with the physiological, reparative process, it clearly behooves the surgeon to have this great truth always before him, in order that he may adapt his treatment to the requirements of the case before him, and not have to blame himself—on account of some failure in the healing act—for a want of care in maintaining that absolute immobility of the wounded or cut part which is essential for rapid or even good repair. In the treatment of fractures, the evil effects of want of rest and immobility of the broken bones are well exemplified, but it is to be remembered that the same want of rest and immobility is as pernicious in wounds of the soft as in those of the hard parts; in wounds of the surface as in those of the deeper structures. The term “ want of rest” is here used in its fullest sense, as want of that thorough immobility of tissue, which is all important for the rapid perfection of the physiological, reparative process. Again, if the edges of a wound are allowed either to gape, or to have too much tension upon them, repair will be interfered with—the parts, in both cases, from want of care in their adaptation, want of caution in not making due provision for the escape of the redundant fluids (drainage), or from some overaction (inflammation), not being allowed to remain at rest and undergo repair. Overaction in the vessels of a part which is undergoing repair—that is, inflammation—always has an evil influence. When it shows itself early in the case it prevents repair, and when manifested at a later period it retards the healing process, or even causes retrogression. Indeed, under all circum- stances, when the vascular action of a part which is undergoing repair ex-