VARICOSE ULCERS. 283 astringents, with the supporting and repressing effect of gentle pressure, the blood-flow will be diminished, time will be allowed for the more complete formation of the walls of the bloodvessels, and the hemorrhagic tendency will be overcome. In scorbutic patients, and in subjects of the hemorrhagic diathesis, ulcers often bleed profusely. In the former of these conditions, the symp- toms should be met by the use of fresh vegetables and a general tonic treat- ment, while in certain other cases the hemorrhage may be controlled by the use of opium internally. In female patients, blood is said to flow occasion- ally from ulcerated surfaces, as vicarious of menstruation. In such a case, those measures, local or general, which tend to restore the normal perform- ance of the menstrual function, may be indicated. In varicose ulcers a vessel sometimes gives way,and the blood flows freely; so also in sloughing ulcer a bloodvessel may be opened, and large quantities of blood may be quickly lost; in such cases, the styptic salts of iron, zinc, or lead, the actual cautery, or moderate, though definite, pressure, may best control the alarming symptom. In an ulcer having a .tendency to bleed, the blood may infiltrate the new tissue extensively, and thus interrupt the nutrition of the newly-formed granulations and cause their rapid destruction. Under such circumstances, it is best to make a free opening and allow the blood to escape externally, rather than to permit it to remain and decompose with the mass of new tissue the vitality of which it has destroyed. Varicose Ulcers. An ulcer occurring on a limb having varicose veins is not necessarily a varicose ulcer. We often see veins much dilated, and coursing in a tortuous way along a limb, without the least infiltration or oedema of the connective tissue or skin, the blood being freely returned through these vessels. An ulcer occurring from injury, or a local inflammation from ordinary causes, on such a limb, even though maintained indefinitely by neglect or repeated in- jury, does not constitute a varicose ulcer. But in a varicose subject, with enlarged veins radiating superficially in the skin, and with a sluggish flow of blood in the part, the exudation from the vessels may at any time, with or without external causes, become so abundant as to result in complete local stasis, followed by innutrition and death of the tissues. If the exudation is abundant in the rete mucosum, blebs may form, and a superficial ulcer may regult; if, however, the excessive infiltration involves the deeper layers of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue dies, a deeper ulcer will be formed. Or a varicose vein may be ruptured by some external injury or violent muscular effort, discharging its blood externally or into the surrounding tissues, and ulceration may follow. Varicose ulcers present all the characteristics of in- dolent or callous ulcers in an exaggerated form ; they occur most frequently in persons past the meridian of life, often in pregnant women, and especially in persons who are compelled to be on their feet most of the time. Treatment.—The treatment of varicose ulcers consists in the use of a warm- water bath, or large emollient poultice, continued until the induration is measurably removed, with rest in a recumbent position, and elastic pressure; the character of the applications to be made directly to such an ulcer must be determined by the especial conditions which it presents. Particular at- tention should be given to the correction of the sluggish venous circulation: perhaps the liver may be enlarged, impeding the venous return through the inferior cava; an enlarged gland may check the flow through the great saphe-