PARASITIC AFFECTIONS. 661 in another form, Sycosis. It may, however, affect the hairy portions of the face or scalp for a considerable time, and yet manifest itself in no other way than by the formation of the characteristic rings, remaining in the circinate stage. In the latter case, the hair follicles have not become deeply implicated, and the appearances and course of the disease, therefore, remain the same as upon the non-liairy portions of the body. Occasionally these varieties may be seen simultaneously upon one person, and their conversion into one another can sometimes be satisfactorily observed. The sensations which accompany them are more or less itching and burning. Eczema Marginatum.—There is occasionally observed upon the central por- tions of the trunk, especially about the inner surface of the upper thighs and lower abdomen, an inflammatory condition of the skin, which Prof. Ilebra was the first to particularly describe under the name Eczema marginatum. It begins as a small round patch of papules and vesicles, which itches exces- sively and excites scratching; as it spreads, it heals in the centre, sinking down and leaving a dark red, scaly condition of the skin, while the advanc- ing border presents a constant, elevated ridge of papules, vesicles, and other lesions of eczema upon an inflamed base. The scratching and natural mois- ture of the parts aggravate the severity of the symptoms and tissue-changes, and give a markedly eczematous appearance to the part. The affection dif- fers from ordinary eczema, however, in the central retrogression and the con- centration of its activity at the advancing edges. It may extend thus over large and continuous portions of the trunk and limbs, but the appearances never vary from the type of the raised and narrow margin of papules, vesicles, ex- coriations, and crusts, and the dark red and scaly state of the parts earlier affected. The parasitic nature of this affection, and the identity of the fungus found in it with that of Tinea trichophytina, were demonstrated by Ivbbner in 1864. How then does it differ from ordinary ringworm of the skin ? Only in the more eczematous character of the lesions which constitute the active, outer border, and the greater amount of congestion and pigmentation of the skin within it. This higher degree of inflammation must be due either to peculiarity of seat, or to the special temperament or tendencies of the indi- vidual affected. The former is no doubt the chief reason why ringworm of these parts should assume the peculiarities described as belonging to Eczema marginatum, for they are especially liable to eczematous inflammation. There is no doubt, however, that both position and personal tendencies ope- rate in the production of the disease, for we may have ordinary ringworm of the same parts presenting none of the peculiarities of the eczema marginatum form, and, on the other hand, true eczema may affect them indefinitely as such, without becoming accidentally inoculated with the fungus of, and being converted into, ringworm. The affection then is to be regarded either as ringworm of certain parts, exciting an eczematous inflammation in addition to the lesions which it ordinarily produces, or as ordinary eczema, modified by the subsequent development upon it of the parasitic elements of ring- worm. This variety of disease is not very common here, but in India is of frequent occurrence, where it is called Burmese ringworm. The subjective symptoms are an exaggeration of those of the ordinary affection. Tinea Tonsurans.—Upon the scalp, the disease first manifests itself by the falling of the hair in circular patches. Examining the surfaces of these ap- parently bald spots, it will be seen that the hairs have not generally fallen out, but have broken off just above the scalp, leaving their stumps to project, and giving, with the scaliness of the early stage, now much more apparent, a peculiar roughness which is increased by a marked prominence of the hair