SYPHILIS. 530 diffuse syphilitic sclerosis. Fournier has reported a case of syphilitic disease of the sublingual gland ; the patient, while suffering from generalized syphil- itic symptoms, was attacked by a tumor the size of a date, which could be perceived in the right sublingual fossa, and was firm and hard to the touch. The administration of iodide of potassium reduced the tumor in a few days to its normal volume. Verneuil has reported a somewhat similar case, in which, however, the nature of the tumor was not made out at the time. Pancreas.—Lancereaux says that, in many autopsies of syphilitic subjects, the pancreas is found indurated by sclerosis. He also reports a case of gumma of the pancreas, this, with the addition of one reported by Rostan, being the only cases on record.1 Syphilis of the Spleen, Supra-Renal Capsules, and Thyroid Gland. Spleen.—The condition of the spleen in the early stages of syphilis has already been alluded to (page 480). Like the lymphatic ganglions, the spleen is almost always attacked by early syphilis, but the later and severer stages of the disease leave it untouched in the vast majority of instances. In the few cases observed after death, gummy deposits were noted in some, but they were usually small and few in number. They were usually situated in the connective tissue of the capsule. Diffuse syphiloma of the spleen is charac- terized by partial hypertrophy of the organ, the tissues of which are con- densed and of a dark-brown color. At a later period, grayish patches are observed, which terminate in depressed cicatrices. Clinically, the affection has rarely, if ever, been recognized. Supra-Renal Capsules.—The supra-renal capsules are often found enlarged in syphilis. Virchow has seen them surrounded by fatty degeneration. Chvostek2 has reported an interesting autopsy. JSTo clinical facts are known. Thyroid Gland.—Lancereaux3 has observed enlargement of the thyroid gland in numerous autopsies of syphilitic subjects. Microscopic examination shows increase of the glandular elements, with occasional fatty degeneration.4 Syphilis of the Respiratory Passages. Larynx.—It was formerly thought that all syphilitic diseases of the larynx were propagated from pre-existing lesions in the pharynx, and that they were closely assimilated to these as regarded the period of their develop- 1 The following references may he made by any one interested in the scanty literature of the subject of syphilis of the racemose glands : Verneuil, Tumeurs gommeuses du Sein (Bull, dela Societe Anatomique, 30e annee, p. 96); Ambrosoli, D’une Maladie de la Glande Mammaire qui quelquefois s’associe avec differentes formes de la Syphilis (Gazz. Med. di Lombard, No. 36,1864); Icard, Note sur un Cas de Tumeur Syphilitique simulant un Cancer du Sein (Jour, de Med. de Lyon, t. vii. p. 21, 1867); Paul Horteloup, Des Tumeurs du Sein cliez l’Homme (These d’Aggre- gation, p. 42, 1872); Lancereaux, Traite de la Syphilis ; Fournier, DSgenerescence Syphilitique de la Glande Sublinguale (Annales de Dermatol, et de Syphiligr., t. vii. p. 81); Rostan, Altera- tion Syphilitique du Pancreas (Bull, de la Soc. Anatom., p. 86, 1855). 2 Wien. med. Wocliens., Aug. 1877. 3 Op. cit., p. 287. 4 The following references may be made to recent articles on syphilis of the' spleen and supra- renal capsules : Moxon, Syphilis of the Supra-Renal Capsules (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d s., vol. xiii. p. 339, 1868); Huner, Syphilis of the Spleen (Deutsches Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. v., S. 270, 1869); Besnier, Syphilis de la Rate (Diet. Encyc. des Sci. Med., Art. Rate, 1874); Chvostek, Syphilis of the Supra-Renal Capsules (Wiener med. Wochenschr., Aug. 1877).