674 DISEASES OF TIIE CELLULAR TISSUE. Diffused Simple Cellulitis. Simple diffused inflammation of the areolar tissue may be either acute or chronic. The acute form is the most common. The chronic is generally seen in connection with old ulcers and badly treated wounds in uncleanly persons. Occasionally it follows the acute variety. It is rarely, if ever, the result of blood-poisoning. In this particular it differs from malignant cellulitis, which invariably results from a septiciemic condition. Locality.—The most frequent seat of cellulitis simplex is in the cellular tissue ' of the upper and lower extremities. Among the predisposing causes of the disease are: the use of innutritious food, impure air, mental distress, venereal excesses, or the prolonged abuse of alcoholic liquors. The most frequent of the exciting causes are exposure to cold and traumatism. In the upper extremity, idiopathic cellulitis usually attacks the inner and anterior aspect of the arm and forearm. In the lower extremity, it is found generally on the outer and anterior portions of the leg. It is not infrequently met with at the upper part of the thorax near the axillary region, at the lower portion of the abdominal walls, and in the areolar tissue around the gluteal muscles. Traumatic cellulitis may occur in any part of the body at the seat of injury. Symptoms.—At the onset of the inflammation there is a soreness of the affected part, with occasional shooting pains, deep-seated, and accompanied by slight swelling and hardness of the tissues under the integument, without any perceptible redness. The involved limb feels stiff, and some pain is present at every movement. The pain soon increases in severity, and the swelling and hardness become more perceptible. The tumefaction is often irregular in shape, with patches between the swollen spots, which, though inflamed, are softer, gradually shading off into the surrounding tissues. When the disease is fully developed this irregularity may disappear, and the surface becomes smooth and glistening. In cases where the lymph coagulates in the vessels, the hardness and roughness, unaccompanied in many cases by redness, remain through the disease, and for some time after all acute symp- toms have passed away. With the acute swelling and infiltration of the tissues by inflammatory products, there is a more acute and throbbing pain than before, and the limb cannot be moved without great suffering. Sup- puration is announced by the occurrence of chilly sensations or rigors, and by a softening of a portion which was previously hard and tense, and by fluctua- tion. The suppuration occurs in patches, which finally blend, and form long, irregular, subcutaneous sinuses that communicate with each other, and are exceedingly difficult to heal. When, on account of the depth of the pus from the surface, fluctuation cannot be ascertained with any degree of positiveness, dependence must be placed on the occurrence of rigors, the subsidence of acute pain, and the fact that the pits made in the tissue by pressure are exceedingly deep, but do not remain as long as those made when simple inflammatory oedema is present. The anatomical changes consist in a varicose dilatation of the capillary bloodvessels of the inflamed district, and in some portions a breaking down of their walls—the adjacent parts of the still intact vessels being closed by coagula, and by pressure from without of the various exudates. The connective tissue cells are found in various stages of proliferation, and wandering cells (white blood-cells) infiltrate the inflamed tissue throughout its whole extent. The inter-cellular substance is opaque and shreddy, filled with cells, and some- times with minute masses of blood which have escaped through the softened