SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. 648 instance in which the disease has been transmitted to children born in Ame- rica. He believes that the disease in his patients wTould have advanced more rapidly in the old world. In a very few, the disease seems to have remained without increasing in severity, but in the larger number it has been in no way retarded. The tubercular form of leprosy proves fatal, on an average, in nine years; the anaesthetic form in eighteen years; cases may continue for twenty-four years. Treatment.—There is no specific remedy for the cure of leprosy. Hew drugs have been from time to time introduced into its therapy, their fleeting reputation having been based upon their temporary, tonic action; among the most recent of these are Gfurjun balsam and Chaulmoogra oil. The pa- tient should be removed if possible from leprous regions, and the individual symptoms met at once, as far as practicable, with proper remedies. The strength is to be sustained with nourishing food, good air, and tonics. The cutaneous manifestations may be influenced somewhat by treatment. The tubercles and infiltrations may be painted with iodine preparations, or covered with mercurial plaster, by which their absorption is promoted. Ulcers are to be handled according to general surgical rules. Anaesthesia may be re- lieved to some extent by electricity. The dangerous intercurrent affections, and the final marasmus, of course demand their own appropriate treatment. Perforating Ulcer of the Foot. (Synonym: Mai perforant du pied.) The individuality of this peculiar affection was first pointed out by Hela- ton, in 1852, but its true nature has been recognized only within a few years. It is not strictly an ulcer; it is an opening upon the surface of the foot, com- municating by a sinus with the interior disease, which opening may be sur- rounded by granulations, may be seated in the centre of a corn, or may be established in portions of the integument only slightly inflamed; it may, however, be surrounded by extensive ulceration of the cutaneous tissues. The situation of the orifice is, most commonly, over the articulation of the metatarsal bone with the phalanx of the great or little toe. It may, however, be on other parts of the foot, or upon several parts at the same time. Both feet may be affected by the disease, and in rare instances it occurs upon the hand. There is generally but a slight discharge of a sanious fluid, from the opening, and, if this be probed, the instrument passes directly through a narrow sinus to diseased bone. There is no pain in the part, but, on the con- trary, a marked insensibility of the opening or ulcer, an anaesthesia which extends to the surrounding portions of skin in an irregular way. The toes especially are insensible. The temperature of these parts is generally reduced, and their sui'face is often covered with perspiration; otherwise, the skin in the early stages of the disease presents no abnormal appearance, and motion of the limb is not interfered with. At a later period, for the disease pro- gresses very slowly, the tendons become affected by the internal changes, causing distortion of the toes. The nails are yellow and fissured, and assume a lateral curvature. Thick collections of epidermis form upon the soles and dorsum of the foot, and the cutaneous pigment undergoes hypertrophy. The hairs, too, of the part take on undue growth. An examination of the foot shows extensive changes of the internal structures, sinuses running from the ulcers or orifices to carious bones, with inflamed bursae, open joints, and the disappearance of cartilages. The nature of this disease, which affects men especially, but sometimes