WOUNDS. 18 take the leading one. On either theory, the importance of the capillaries cannot be overlooked. With regard to the changes in the capillaries, it has been already pointed out that, at the beginning of the reparative process, those of the part become sealed, and the collateral circulation in the neighborhocd becomes irregular and pressed upon; and that the coagida in these obliterated capillaries become reabsorbed or possibly reorganized as repair progresses, since it is certain that the capillary network soon becomes continuous through the newly formed cicatricial tissue, and that the capillary meshes of the one side join, by loops projected through the new tissue, similar meshes of the opposite side. What influence the nerves of the part have upon the reparative process, we do not know. That they have an important influence there can be little doubt, since all physiologists recognize their power upon secretion and nutri- tion; the vaso-motor nerves doubtless have the greater power. But we must learn something more of nerve power generally, and of nerve distribution— something of the way in which the nerves terminate in the tissues, and what relation they bear to the capillaries—before we can hope to find out or under- stand the exact influence which nerve supply has on repair. Repaid by Granulation.—All wounds do not, however, heal by immediate union, or by primary adhesion, and wounds that gape cannot so unite. The process of repair in these, therefore, differs somewhat in its character from the process in those which we have been considering; it takes place by granu- lation, or the “ second intention” of Hunter. If we closely examine the surface of a wound thus exposed, we shall find that it becomes, within a few hours of its exposure, covered with a film of a peculiar, gelatinous, grayish-white appearance. This will be seen with the aid of the microscope to be composed of granulatiomcells or white blood-cells,Hunter’s “plastic lymph.” After an Fig. 202. Fig. 203. Bloodvessel forming in a, granulation tissue ; Spindle cells, developed from placoids, from the the wall, 6, forming from placoids and proto- walls of a forming bloodvessel. (After Golding- plasm. (After Golding-Bird.) Bird.) interval of some hours, the parts covered with this gelatinous grayish film become more vascular, as indicated by redness, and the surface more even. The film itself assumes a tougher character, and a yellow fluid, which is mixed with small yellow sloughs of fibrinous tissue, is secreted. The wound begins “to clean,” and to have a smooth and consistent surface. After the lapse of another day, or some days, perhaps, this surface is covered with a number of elevations, known by the name of granulations, varying in size from a millet-