860 GONORRHOEA. 1 American Specialist, February 1, 1881. injections, bougies, etc. Dr. C. A. Bryce records two cases of this character.1 In a case of stricture occurring in a medical student, and associated with the most irritable urethra I have ever had occasion to explore or treat, great temporary relief was afforded by the division of the sphincter ani and consequent cure of a small fissure. Subsequently, however, hyperaesthesia returned, dilatation became impossible, and, after consultation with Dr. Agnew, I performed internal urethrotomy, which resulted in still further im- provement. The patient is yet under treatment. The great frequency of gonorrhoea rendering it extremely probable that, in any given case of nerve trouble, there has been an antecedent attack of this affection, should make us particularly careful not to employ the post hoc, ergo propter hoc method of reasoning. Treatment of Gonorrikea in the Male. The treatment of gonorrhoea in the male requires for success, above all things else, the most careful attention to detail, and without this the best intended therapeutic agencies will invariably prove futile. I have heard a distinguished specialist remark, that for satisfaction in treatment and cer- tainty in giving relief, he would rather manage any other kind of a case known to surgery ; and Ricord’s description of the infernal regions, as a place where the surgeon would be compelled to attend importunate patients with gleety discharges, has become proverbial. In spite, however, of such unfavorable utterances, I believe a large measure of success can be attained in the treat- ment of these cases by strict attention to certain points, which I shall make no apology for giving in some detail, in spite of their apparent triviality. It is chiefly to care in these respects that I attribute the fact, that for the past five years I have found that the time required for the treatment and cure of gonorrhoea has steadily diminished; and as I see in office, hospital, and dis- pensary practice several hundreds of cases annually, I feel justified in gener- alizing from them, and in assuming some authority of statement. Prophylactic Measures. It may not be out of place here briefly to allude to the various measures in vogue for the prophylaxis of gonorrhoea among those men who continually expose themselves to the chances of contagion. The use of a cover, immediate ablution, and urination as soon as possible after the completion of the act, are, it is needless to say, the most reliable means of prevention, and are so well known and so harmless as not to require further mention. An additional precaution, of which the same assertion cannot be made, is the use of one of the numerous so-called “preventive” injections. It is a cardinal doctrine of belief with many men that the prompt employment of some particular liquid, the receipt for which has usually been given them by a friend, will effectually prevent the development of venereal disease. This- belief, in so far as it con- duces to cleanliness, is of advantage; but whatever good it may do in this manner is far outweighed by the unfounded confidence often occasioned by the possession of such a seeming safeguard, and still oftener by the irritative effects produced by the injection itself. The favorite therapeutic classes to which these liquids belong are those of the antiseptics and astringents, carbolic acid, Labarraque’s solution, alum and tannin,' dilute Monsel’s solution, and even a glycerite of iodine having to my knowledge been employed in this manner, the first mentioned with great frequency.