108 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS—ARROW WOUNDS. missile, or in securing the wounded vessel. The first, of the preceding tables shows, however, that arrow wounds of the abdominal cavity are not invari- ably mortal. Secondly, in considering the prognosis, we should regard the chances of extricating the arrow head, if this has lodged. If the shaft remains attached to the head, the operation will probably be successful; but if the head is lost in the soft tissues, or is left in the chest or abdomen, its removal will be difficult and perhaps impossible. If, however, the foreign body be not ex- tracted, it will sooner or later bring about the death of the patient, for, unlike a smooth ball, the arrow head—long, sharp on the edges, angular, perhaps serrated—will not become encysted. Other considerations, too, not pecu- liar to arrow wounds, affect the prognosis; such as the health of the patient, the immediate importance of the wounded parts to life, the liability to inflammation, and especially the courage or mental serenity of the sufferer. The presence of shock shows that an organ essential to life, or highly inner- vated from the sympathetic system, has been seriously hurt, for ordinarly there is no shock at all. Wounds of the joints generally do well, and de- structive inflammation of the synovial membranes is not likely to occur. Treatment of Arrow Wounds in General.—If an arrow has struck a fleshy part, such as the outer side of the thigh, and has passed completely out, but little need be done. The wound should be encouraged to heal by first intention, and to this end perfect rest, both general and local, should be en- forced. If a limb is hurt, it is well to place it on a light splint, and to apply a bandage firmly, so as to quiet muscular action. On the high, dry table- lands of Colorado and Hew Mexico, these wounds will often heal in two or three days. Ihematomata may form, but, even under these circumstances, we may frequently get absorption without the formation of pus. If an abscess has formed, it should be opened according to general rules. If the whole arrow—head and shaft still bound together—has lodged,, we must first determine whether or not the head is impacted in the bone. This can be ascertained by gently twirling the shaft between the finger and thumb, or by trying to push it a little forwards—never by pulling it back. The slightest mobility settles the question, and the greatest care must be taken not to separate the head and shaft in the examination. If the head is not fixed in the bone, we next consider whether the missile shall be pulled, out over the course it has already taken, or whether it shall be pushed out through the tissues which it would have traversed, had its progi’ess not been arrested. This will depend upon how deeply the missile has penetrated, and upon what tissues it must encounter in a forward course. If it is decided to push out an arrow, we oil the shaft, and make firm pressure on its end. When the head is felt under the skin, it should be released by a touch of the knife. The head and tendinous ribband are then removed, when the shaft is with- drawn with a gentle rotary motion. In this case too, where we artificially make the arrow do what it would have done had its progress not been stayed, we get a cure without suppuration. But if the ribband of tendon has been left in the wound, or if, for any reason, such as inability to secure rest for the parts, we expect suppuration, then, before withdrawing the shaft, it is well to fasten to this a drainage-tube, and to drag the latter into the wound as the former is plucked out. Some carbolized oil may be injected into the tube, which should be left in place until suppuration commences; then the tube with a pledget of lint may be drawn through the wound, and the miss- ing tendinous ribband be thus brought away. Further search for this will usually be inexpedient. If it is not feasible to push the arrow out, we must pluck it out, and, to do this, the head itself must be seized. But the shaft is so tightly grasped by