130 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. is a very frequent cause, may follow upon violent straining, as at stool. Ca- chectic conditions, especially scurvy and chronic diarrhoea, and the very much more rarely met with peculiar constitutional predisposition of “ bleeders,” render the occurrence of hemorrhage after the receipt of a wound much more likely. However produced, secondary hemorrhage may quickly end the life of the patient, as it is very apt to do if the artery is above medium calibre; or recurring again and again, by the resulting prostration and mental de- pression, it may more slowly, but none the less surely, bring about a fatal result. Septicaemia and Pyaemia.—To “ blood-poisoning,” especially in military practice, is due in a great measure the mortality of gunshot wounds not necessarily and speedily fatal. Consequent, probably, upon the absorption of an organic, septic material, developed in the injured tissues, it may manifest itself by phenomena due to the circulation of blood unfit for nutrition, the nervous system being thereby profoundly impressed {septicaemia); or by the formation of visceral metastatic abscesses, chiefly in the lungs and liver {pyaemia). Occasionally both conditions exist together. The poison, what- ever it may be, is ordinarily formed in connection with an open wound, either produced by the shot or by subsequent operation; but is at times generated in the damaged tissues of a contusion. The lymphatics are its chief primary carriers in the septicsemic cases, the veins in the pysemic. In the former, the symptoms are ordinarily developed at an early period, sometimes within the first thirty-six hours ; in the latter, they do not appear until after suppura- tion has been established. Diffused metastatic inflammations, with result- ing suppurations, are met with in both forms of blood-poisoning, but more commonly in the pyaemic; and such inflammations attack by preference the larger joints and the superficial fascia, and occasionally the viscera and glands. The circumscribed, multiple abscesses of the lungs, liver, spleen, kidneys, or brain, are due to embolic infarctions, the emboli being not simple, but septic, and the poisonous impress having been made upon them while they were still component parts of the primary venous thrombus. Whether or not external aerial organisms are the exciting causes of the poison-generating changes that take place upon and in the immediate vicinity of an open wound, is still a question. That the poison once generated can be transferred from one wounded man to another by sponges, by dressings, by attendants, or by currents of air, admits of no doubt. Nor can it be denied that everything that tends to lower the general tone of the system renders an individual more likely to suffer from septic disease. Malarial affections, scurvy, forced marches, insufficient and improper food, excesses, the depres- sion of defeat, captivity, with its frequently associated overcrowding—each and all have contributed much to the predisposing of wounded soldiers to outbreaks of this bane of military surgery, that at times becomes, as it w-as in the late siege of Paris, a “ hideous scourge.” Symptoms of Pyaemia and Septicaemia.—Though these two affections have in their symptoms much in common, yet they present sufficient differences to permit ordinarily the ready establishment of a differential diagnosis. Both are marked by rapidly developed high fever, with great, irregular, and quickly recurring (almost always daily) variations of temperature, the thermometer indicating a body-heat at one time as low as normal, at another as high as 104°, or 106°, or even 107° F.—higher as a rule in septicaemia than in pyae- mia. The pulse is feeble, and generally rapid, though there is not of necessity the ordinarily observed relationship between pulse-rate and temperature. Profuse sweatings occur, especially in pyaemia; diarrhoea is often present; and the breath acquires a peculiar and characteristic odor. Little or no pain is