SYMPTOMS AND COMPLICATIONS OF SECOND OR STATIONARY STAGE. 337 majority of cases, after reaching this condition, it will subside under appro- priate treatment, disappearing by resolution. In others, however, particularly in individuals of scrofulous tendencies, or in those broken down by vicious habits or by overwork, suppuration ensues, the connective tissue which surrounds the gland liquefying first. Indeed, very often the glandular struc- ture itself is not involved in the suppurative action. Another group of complications may be mentioned as possible occurrences towards the end of the third week, some of them, however, often appearing much later. They are Cowperitis, Prostatitis, and Cystitis. Cowperitis.—Inflammation of one or both of Cowper’s glands, or Cowperitis, is a result of extension of the urethritis by continuity along their ducts, which empty into the posterior portion of the spongy urethra—that part incorrectly described as the “bulbous” portion. The first symptom usually developed is pain in the perineum, much increased by pressure, and rendering sitting or walking markedly painful. The inflammatory swelling of the glands is resisted by the two layers of the triangular ligament between which they are situated, and by the deep perineal fascia, and this resistance, associated with the determination of blood to the part by gravitation, imparts, as in other inflammations where the same conditions exist, a throbbing element to the pain, which renders it peculiarly distressing. The glands may often be felt as two small hard tumors, situated just back of the scrotum, one on either side of the median line; or may be recognized by pressure made in an upward and forward direction by the finger inserted just within the external sphincter. Urination is difficult if the swelling be great, and is always painful, particu- larly at its termination, as the glands are surrounded by the transverse fibres of the compressor urethrse muscle—which, contracting to expel the last drops of urine, compresses their inflamed and tender structure. Suppuration in the peri-glandular tissue sometimes occurs, in which case the usual signs of the formation of pus are present. Prostatitis.—After gonorrhoea has crept or spread backward as far as the prostatic urethra, it may, and in some cases unavoidably does, in spite of the best directed treatment, involve the prostate gland. The follicles and the glandular element of this body are primarily and chiefly affected, the muscular tissue which composes the larger portion of its mass remaining in moderate cases un invaded. Harrison, in a paper on acute prostatitis, read at the Medical Society of London, April 11, 1881, divides this affection into two varieties, follicular prostatitis and general or parenchymatous prostatitis, the former attacking the glandular structure, but remain- ing limited to it, and attended with the symptoms above described ; the other more rare, much more serious, and developing as if the whole gland within the capsule were at once involved in the inflammatory action. Suppuration usually supervenes, and unless treatment is prompt and decisive, on the first appearance of fluctuation as revealed by rectal examination, the most serious results both as to structure and life are likely to follow. The persons in whom this variety is said by Mr. Harrison to occur most fre- quently, are those of deteriorated constitutions, or with urinary organs more or less damaged by long-standing obstructive disease. The anatomical and physiological relations of the gland (see Fig. 313) fur- nish at once a key to the symptoms produced by its inflammation, the earliest of which will probably be a feeling of weight and distension in the perineum and rectum. This is soon followed b}r frequent urination, due to the inability of the bladder completely to empty itself, the exit of the urine being inter- fered with by the engorged gland. The end of the act is painful, but is not vol. ii.—22