591 PSEUDO-VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. as possible, after the growths have been destroyed, is an important adjuvant in effecting a permanent cure. The large growths which occur during pregnancy should not be subjected to operative interference; the treatment here should be palliative, consisting in keeping the parts clean by the use of a disinfectant lotion, such as Labar- raque’s solution, since a spontaneous cure may take place after delivery; if, however, the growths persist, they may be dealt with at the proper time, as in other cases. The treatment of warts, when complicated with phimosis, generally requires operative interference, either by splitting the prepuce, or by a formal circum- cision, so as to afford the necessary exposure of the growths; when made accessible by either of these methods, the warts can be excised, or touched with caustics or astringents in the way already described. Circumcision has the advantage of leaving the parts in a condition less favorable for the repro- duction of the disease. Pseudo-Venereal Affections. Under this name may be included several diseases which are transmissible by contact, and, therefore, by sexual intercourse when the generative organs happen to be affected, but which have no necessary or even habitual depend- ence upon such intercourse, and are not, therefore, strictly entitled to be called venereal. Some of the affections to be described under this head are, however, probably really identical with syphilis. Yaws. (Synonyms: Framboesia, Plan.)—These names have been given to an affection which is endemic among the negroes on the west coast of Africa, and which has from that locality been transported by slave traders to the West Indies, and to the Southern States of America. This disease was described by the Arabian physicians as early as the tenth century, and from them received the name of Sahafti.1 According to Lancereaux,2 it is met with as an endemic disease from the left bank of the Senegal River to Cape Yegro, in Senegambia, Congo, Sierra Leone, and Yigritia, and in the colonies which have drawn their slave supply from those regions. Milroy3 believes that the geographical distribution of the disease is much wider than is gene- rally supposed, and that it occurs not only on the -west coast of Africa, but in the islands of the Pacific, in South America, in the Melanesian Islands, and on the east coast of Africa. Symptoms.-—The symptoms of yaws, according to most authorities, are lassitude, malaise, more or less fever, pain in the joints, and a papular erup- tion which goes through various phases of development, and which in certain stages, from its resemblance to the wild raspberry, has caused the disease to receive the name “framboesia.” At a later period the patient suffers from ulcerations, osteocopic pains, and various affections of the bones—exostoses, necrosis, and caries—and in rare cases from gangrene. Imray4 declares that little constitutional disturbance is manifested at the outset of the disease, and that it is not until the affection has existed for some time that the general health suffers, when the patient becomes emaciated and debilitated from the attending pain and ulceration. 1 Theodoric, lib. viii. cap. xviii. 2 Lancereaux, Treatise on Syphilis (New Sydenham Society’s Translation), vol. i. p. 31. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, June, 1880. 4 Tilbury Fox, Diseases of the Skin in Hot Climates, p. 407.