TREATMENT OE GUNSHOT FRACTURES. 149 equal, when the fragments are held in close apposition than when they are separated; and Kircher, who declares that wounds from conical bullets heal more readily than those from round ones, believes that there is at times, because of the fixation of the pieces by their unruptured periosteal covering, union of the fracture without suppuration. Fig. 256. Fig. 257. Fissured gunshot fracture of right humerus re- Fissured gunshot fracture of right femur by conical moved by amputation. (A. M. M. Spec. 486.) ball. (A. M. M. Sect. 1, Spec. 3931.) The danger to life in gunshot wounds of bone lies in the liability to the occurrence of fat-embolism, of violent inflammation, of blood-poisoning, or of exhaustion or amyloid disease from profuse and protracted discharge of pus. Treatment of Gunshot Fractures. The treatment of gunshot fractures must have reference to the condition of the injured part, and to the various constitutional symptoms which may be developed. Primary splinters, that is, those entirely detached, should be removed at once. Upon this all are agreed, unless the case is to be treated antiseptically, when, as we have already seen, the cleansing of the wound and removal of foreign bodies (and such are these bone fragments) are to be postponed until circumstances will permit of a systematic dressing, or, indeed, may be omitted altogether if the pieces are not large—some (as, for instance, Schmidt, of St. Petersburg) going so far as to declare that extraction of splinters is only necessary when sepsis has occurred. Whether or not secondary sequestra (those still somewhat attached) shall be taken away, must depend upon the extent and degree of their adherence. If simply held by narrow bands of periosteum, the sooner they are removed the better, for their vitality cannot long be maintained. If more firmly united to the unbroken part of the bone, even though standing off at a considerable angle, they will often, if left undisturbed, be included in the callus, and contribute effectually to its development and strength; the disadvantage of their retention is the danger of necrosis, and the consequent persistence of sinuses until the dead fragments