428 THE SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER OR CHANCROID. syphilis. Not one of them is exempt from induration, not one of them is confined to a local lesion without reaction upon the entire system, nor without phenomena of general infection. I shall not speak here of a case which I have published elsewhere. This case, which relates to a non-indurated chancre of the gum, would appear as a most con- clusive exception, were it not for the fact that I have become more exacting in drawing conclusions than I was when I published the case. I repeat, that this case referred to a non-indurated chancre of the gum, which was not followed at the proper time by constitutional symptoms, and this chancre was derived from a woman who also had a chancre ; but I ought to add that I did not see the woman, and that a knowledge of her disease was derived from the patient. I should also state that no artificial auto-inocu- lation was performed, hence the correctness of the diagnosis and the value of the case may very properly be doubted.”1 Fournier2 gives the following case from Puche:— A young man applied to Puche on the 17th of November, 1861, with an ulcer of the lower lip near the median line, which was chancrous in appearance, and had lasted three or four days. This ulcer came eight days after a connection, “ the nature of which,” as Puche says, “ the patient did not attempt to deny.” There was a slight adenitis of the submental gland. The patient was taken to Cullerier for an opinion, which was “ indurated chancre.” Puche, dissatisfied apparently with this diagnosis, practised auto-inoculation with the secretion of the ulcer on the man’s abdomen. While the inoculation was being made, the patient, attempting to restrain the surgeon’s hand, pricked himself on the finger with the instrument. The result in both places was posi- tive in a few days. Local treatment was now instituted, and all three ulcers healed without induration, and the patient passed from observation on the 31st of December, 1861, without any constitutional symptoms of syphilis. The history of this case it would be hard to controvert, and unless we are prepared to entirely abandon the value of auto-inoculation in diagnosis, we must be willing to admit that this was an undoubted case of chancroid of the lip. I know that the experiments that have been made with simple pus would seem to rob this case of many of its distinctive features in a diagnostic point of -view, but when we consider that these ulcers have been artificially inoculated upon the face by many trustworthy observers, it would, I think, be a refine- ment of criticism to deny that this case was one of true chancroid of the lip. Diday3 gives two separate cases of what he calls “ chancrelles de la bouche,” and MM. Boys de Loury and Costilles4 give two more cases, one of the eyelid and one of the ear, but these cases are so imperfect as to be worthless, and I shall make no further mention of them. Millet, in his thesis, gives a curious though somewhat imperfect account of a man who on the 12th of July, 1865, went bathing in a forbidden locality, was chased by the police, and was in the water for two hours. When he came out he was very much exhausted and had violent lumbar pains. On the 13th, he went to the Hopital St. Antoine, where he was confined to bed for fourteen days, during which time he saw no outside friend but his mis- tress. On the 28th, the day after leaving the hospital, he noticed a smarting of the lower lip, on the skin and mucous membrane of which were some small yellow pimples. The next day these pimples were covered over with a crust. Thinking he had some venereal affection, although he declared that his mistress was perfectly healthy, he went to the Hopital du Midi on the first day of August. 1 Ricord, in bis “ Traite pratique des Maladies Veneriennes,” published iA 1838, gave in his tables of inoculations seven cases of primary syphilis on the lips, and three in the throat, all of which produced the characteristic pustule of inoculation, as among the cases which occurred in his wards in 1831 and 1837. As no details are given, the cases are worthless in a scientific point of view. 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques. Art. Chancre. 3 L’Union Medicale, 1858; and Annales de Dermatologie et Sypliiligraphie, 1872, No. 2. 4 Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1845, 1847.