616 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The ordinary and diverse appearances of this local variety of eczema need not be described in this connection, but in rare instances, the nipple and areola present the peculiar, raw, red, and oozing phase of the disease for an indefinite period, the epithelium refusing to form anew. All means known in the therapeutics of eczema are tried in vain: no permanent process of repair is established. The part may continue in this state of rawness for years, more or less of the time temporarily covered with a protecting crust or semiformed epithelium, until it is finally discovered that the disease is no longer an eczema, but cancer.1 This passage of a simple chronic inflammatory condition into a form of carcinoma is not without parallel. The transformation of pa- pillary hypertrophy, in several forms, and of lupus tissue, into cancer, are well recognized examples of such change of character in chronic affections of the cutaneous tissue. The more general forms of eczema, too, not unfrequently give rise to the development of furuncles and abscesses which demand surgical treatment. As the result of the long-continued irritation of the skin, and of the consequent violent abuse which, in the form of scratching, it so often receives from the patient in the course of chronic varieties of the disease, it is not at all un- common for severe furuncular inflammation to occur over considerable sur- faces, and to continue for a long time after the primary affection has disap- peared. This condition is especially noticed in connection with the artificial eczema of chronic and extensive scabies. Deeper-seated inflammation in the form of small abscesses, too, sometimes accompanies, in children, both acute and chronic eczema, especially upon the scalp. This is rarely observed, how- ever, when the patient is otherwise in good condition, or when the skin has not been long the subject of direct abuse. Acne. Acne only falls within the province of surgery in its more severe manifes- tations. This follicular or peri-follicular inflammation involves, at times, the cutaneous tissues much more extensively, producing deep-seated infiltration in the form of firm indurations which can be felt beneath the surface, or elevations, varying in size from that of a bullet to that of a small walnut, which last for many weeks, and which disappear either by suppuration and tardy surface discharge, or by reabsorption. Sometimes large tracts of the skin are thickly occupied by such forms of deep inflammation, producing great thick- ening of such parts, and irregularities of surface. The projecting nodules and tubercles are generally of a dull red or purplish color, and on disappear- ance are replaced by irregularly shaped depressions or scars, which remain as permanent disfigurements. The parts thus affected are generally the sides of the face and neck, and the back of the neck, although the whole face may be similarly affected in some cases, as well as the upper part of the chest, both before and behind. This form of the affection, called, at times, Acne indurata or inveterata, may be the termination of any case of common juve- nile acne which prolongs itself indefinitely, and may occur in any individual thus affected, though otherwise apparently in perfect health. It affects fe- males as well as males. Occasionally it is associated with general deteriora- tion of health, and may cover extensive tracts of the skin ; it is then called Acne cached)corum. In acne of the bearded face, “ non-parasitic sycosis,” so- called, the same deep-seated follicular forms of inflammation occur. 1 Sir James Paget calls especial attention to the affection in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Re- ports, vol. x., 1874.