467 LESIONS OCCURRING CONCOMITANTLY WITH CHANCRE. Lesions occurring Concomitantly with Chancre. Lymph angeitis.—In one case out of five, according to Bassereau, the chancre is followed by inflammation of one or more lymphatic vessels in its neigh- borhood. These appear in the form of cordv indurations under the skin, more or less straight, or occasionally wavy and moniliform. Sometimes several parallel lymphatics are involved, giving the sensation of a ribband under the skin. It is only rarely, and when the inflammation is more severe, that, the enlarged lymphatics can be traced by their color, which shows of a light red under the skin. This engorgement of the lymphatics is unaccom- panied by fever, and patients sometimes fail to notice the change. At other times there is a slight sensation of weight and tension. After three or four weeks, the lymphangeitis commonly disappears by reso- lution. Occasionally, however, like the induration of the chancre itself, this induration may last for six or eight months. In rare cases an abscess, fol- lowed by a lymphatic fistula, exuding a clear fluid, occurs in the course of the vessels. This often is healed only with difficulty. The richness of the genital region in lymphatics makes the occurrence of angeioleucitis much more common in chancres of these parts than it is in connection with extra- genital chancres. In men, the lymphatics of the dorsum penis are those most usually affected, and their long cord-like course can easily be followed to the pubes and to the groin. In women, the inflamed lymphatics are hidden in the tissues of the labia minora and majora, and run up toward the ganglia parallel to the genito-crural fold. They are also met with about the mons veneris in the form of knotty masses buried in the fatty tissues of the region. When they cannot be perceived by the touch, the presence of inflamed lym- phatics in this region is often manifested by oedema of the mucous or muco- cutaneous surface of the vulva. Adenitis.—Adenitis is in reality not a complication of chancre, but a necessary accompaniment. It occurs almost invariably; as Ricord used to say, “The bubo follows the chancre as the shadow follows the person.”1 Ade- nitis is, if not the most, at least one of the most important aids to the diagnosis of chancre, and its peculiar characteristics should be carefully noted. The bubo symptomatic of chancre is found in the ganglia with which the lymphatics of the affected region are connected. If the chancre is seated on the genitalia, the glands of the groin are affected, but those of other re- gions, the submaxillary, for instance, remain unaffected. If the chancre is in the mouth, the submaxillary glands are enlarged, but those of the groin remain intact. The following table, from Fournier, shows the seat of the bubo correspond- ing to chancres of various localities. Seat of Chancre. Genital chancres, that is, chancres of the penis, scrotum, labia majora and minora, fourchette, meatus urinarius, urethra, opening of the vagina, etc. Perigenital chancres : chancres of the peri- neum, genito-crural region, mons vene- ris, buttocks, thighs, etc. 1 Fournier, in 265 cases of chancre occurring in men, found adenitis in 263 ; in 223 cases of chancre observed in women, 220 showed concomitant adenitis. Corresponding Bubo. Inguinal ganglia. Inguinal ganglia.