GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 140 or not future experience will establish arterial ligation as the proper mode of practice, is a question. According to Wyeth, of nine cases of simultaneous ligation of both the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein for in- juries of various kinds, seven ended in death, and only two terminated in recovery. In all cases in which ligation is to be practised, much advantage will be derived from the preliminary application of the Esmarch bandage, any neces- sary dissection being thus rendered very much easier. The elastic cord or band is much to be preferred to the ordinary tourniquet, for the temporary control of bleeding, until it may be practicable to effect a formal ligation. In a paper presented at the late International Congress, at London, Prof. Esmarch laid down, among other propositions, the following, which must command the assent of all surgeons:— The practice, formerly in use, of ligating arteries above the wound, is uncertain, and ought therefore to be entirely discarded. The application of styptics is equally objectiona- ble, not only because of their uncertain action, but because they foul a wound and interfere with its healing. The use of styptics is very objectionable; all such remedies ought therefore to be banished from the surgeon’s field case. In all cases of hemorrhage threatening life, the wounded vessel must, if possible, be exposed at the seat of injury, and ligatured above and below this point, either with catgut or antisepticized silk. The most effectual method to render such an operation easy, rapid, and thorough, is to make a free incision parallel with the axis of the limb. When life is at stake, it matters little whether such an incision is one inch or one foot in length, provided that the hem- orrhage is arrested, and that the wound is kept sweet; the large wound heals just as well as the small one. After freely incising the skin, the operator inserts his left index finger deep into the wound, and, with a button-pointed bistoury, opens up just as freely the deeper layers of connective tissue, fasciae, and muscles, while an assistant now separates the parts with retractors. The blood-clot, which is generally found to fill the wound, and to have infiltrated the surrounding cellular tissue, is now rapidly turned out, either with the fingers, or sponges, or raspatories, partly because it hides every- thing, and partly to avoid subsequent decomposition. It is only under these circum- stances that any operation can be carried out with anything like exactitude. As soon as this is done, the operator feels with his finger for the vascular and nerve trunks, and endeavors with the aid of a clean sponge to learn the exact nature of the injury. When the large veins are empty and collapsed, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish them from strands of connective tissue. On this account it is advisable to provide a little reserve of blood, which may be done in this manner. For the arm, a cord may be fastened around the wrist, below the wound, before the elastic (Esmarch) bandage is applied; then, on loosening this cord and raising the arm, the blood shut up in the hand will, if the vein be injured, flow into the wound, and so make it manifest. As soon as the in jured spot of the artery or vein has been laid bare, so that its full extent can be clearly seen, the vessel must be isolated and then securely ligatured, either with catgut or car- bolized silk, above and below the injury. If the continuity of the vessel has not already been destroyed by the injury, the vessel must be cut between the two ligatures. The operator should convince himself that no lateral or deep branches are given off to the injured part of the trunk. Should any small branches be found, they ought to be care- fully isolated, ligatured, and then separated from the parent trunk. The Esmarch ban- dage should now be removed, and all bleeding vessels carefully tied, the limb being raised, as after amputation. Occasionally, the nature of the wound, the position and condition of the bleeding vessel, and the state of the patient, will render it advisable, instead of attempting to control the hemorrhage in any of the above-mentioned way's, to at once perform amputation. Such an operation is much less likely than ligation to be followed by recurrence of the bleeding, the artery very prob- ably being secured at a point where its coats are healthier, and, still more, the vis afronte, which has so much to do with the production of secondary hemorrhage, being altogether removed.