394 GONORRHCEA. the surface of which a desquamation of the most superficial epithelium occurs. These erosions are frequently bright red in color, and measure from two to eight millimetres in diameter, are painful, vary from two to six in number, and are seated within the labia majora between their base and the hymen. They do not cause a thickening of the corium, and the connective tissue of the mucous membrane remains pliant and normal, which distinguishes them from mucous patches. These very superficial erosions are especially found in the fold between the hymen and nymphae, while mucous patches are found upon the labia. “ In the Lourcine Hospital there are frequent opportunities to study vulvitis in its most simple form in the children from Sainte Therese ward, in whom there is no accompanying vaginitis; the redness, discharge, inflammation of the sebaceous and mucous glands, and erosions are the same as with girls arrived at puberty. In children, where the hymen is generally intact, this membrane, during vulvitis, is very red and swollen.”1 Phlegmon.—In prostitutes of the lower class, vulvitis, neglected and allowed to spread unrestrained, or aggravated by continued coition, uncleanliness, retention and decomposition of the discharge in the folds of the labia, etc., occasionally gives rise to a 'phlegmonous inflammation of the subcutaneous and submucous cellular tissue, erysipelatous in its character, accompanied by serious constitutional disturbance, and usually resulting in diffuse suppura- tion, or in the formation of multiple abscesses. Such cases are never seen except in hospital wards, and usually occur in confirmed drunkards, whose habitual condition of stupor or semi-consciousness renders them insensible to the approaches of the male, which would otherwise cause great pain. In one such case which fell under my notice, it was subsequently discovered that eight men and boys had, within an hour or two, used the person of the already diseased but not unwilling patient for the gratification of their sexual desires. Nymphomania.—In the early stages and less severe forms of vulvitis, even with better classes of patients, there is often seen an increase of erotic im- pulses, sometimes amounting even to nymphomania, and inducing the patient, if she be a loose woman, to disregard all advice as to abstinence from coition, until the progress of the disease renders the act so painful as practically to preclude its performance. Chronic Vulvitis.—When the disease becomes chronic, the most frequent and most noticeable symptoms are enlargement of the nymphse, a purplish discoloration of the parts, an increased mucous and sebaceous secretion, often offensive, and a tendency to pruritus, which, when marked, is very distressing. Vaginitis. Causes.—Vaginitis has for its most frequent cause a purulent discharge from the male urethra. In other words, gonorrhoea in the female is usually due to a similar disease in the male. The explanation of this fact has already been given (pp. 329, 330). It may, however, result from violent or excessive copulation, from masturbation, from contusions, from inflamed hemorrhoids, or in various other ways. Thomas reports two cases in which vaginitis, having all the characteristics which he believes to belong to a specific variety, was developed by the accidental contact of ehromic acid with the vaginal walls. 1 Cornil, op. cit., p. 152.