ULCERS. 286 bility, the material must be the best Para rubber, prepared with the minimum of sul- phur and heat needed to effect that ‘ curing’ of the gum, without which it would very soon deteriorate and become worthless. “ The dimensions given are those which I have found most generally applicable. If a leg is very long and large, an addition of two or three feet in length, and of half an incli in width, may be desirable. In a few cases, where a varicose condition of the veins of the thigh accompanies the ulcer or ulcers on the leg, I apply a bandage from the foot to the groin; this must be from eighteen to twenty-one feet long, and, if the limb is very large, a width of three and a half or even three and three-quarters inches may be requisite. If the leg is very slender, there will be somewhat more bandage than is necessary ; this, however, can be wound round below the knee, or, of course, cut off to suit the exact requirements of the case. After being in use for a short time, the bandages improve in appearance by getting rid of the sulphur, which, to use a technical phrase, ‘ sweats out’ of the rubber. This sulphur is not at all objectionable except in appearance ; indeed, I think I am not fanciful in believing that, in certain conditions of the skin, it exercises a decidedly beneficial effect. The sulphur could be removed and a much nicer looking bandage produced, but this could only be done by certain chemicals which would probably injure the rubber “ The form of ulcer which yields most perfectly and readily to this treatment is that very common one connected with a varicose state of the superficial veins. It is well known how unsatisfactory all previous methods have been in this class of cases, how next to impossible to obtain firm, sound cicatrization of such ulcers without a very long continuance of the horizontal position, and how extremely liable they are to return, at the slightest provocation, when the erect position is resumed. The ulcers found on old poorly-nourished legs, where there is a deficiency in the quality or quan- tity (generally both) of the blood, a feeble heart, imperfect circulation, and, conse- quently, a wretchedly-nourished skin—those which were called chironian ulcers by the ancients, deemed by them incurable, or curable only by the Centaur Chiron, or one of his professional equals; round or approaching round, with perpendicular sides, as if cut with a punch through the much thickened skin, with white, hard, almost cartilagi- nous edges—yield the least readily, but still are healed by this method more speedily and much more solidly and enduringly than by any other. “ I need occupy 'but little space in describing my way of using the bandage, for nothing can well be simpler. The patient is directed to put it on the first thing in the morning, before the veins of the leg become distended by the impeded column of blood within them. The very best way is to apply it while still in bed. It should be applied with just snugness enough not to slip down. The moment after the foot is put to the ground, the limb is so increased in bulk by the increase of blood in its veins, that the bandage becomes of precisely the proper degree of tightness, and, no matter how active the exercise or labor of the patient, it will remain in position all day. The bandage is applied by winding one turn just above the malleoli, then one round the instep and sole, then up the leg, spirally, round and round, to the knee, each turn overlapping that below it, from one-half to three-quarters of an inch. If there is any redundant band- age, it can be wound round the leg below the knee, the tapes carried in different direc- tions and firmly tied. When the patient undresses at night, the bandage is to be re- moved, and the limb wiped dry; a piece of soft old linen moistened with olive oil, or some equally simple dressing, laid on the ulcer and retained in place by a few turns of an ordinary roller. The bandage should be sponged with water (cold will do, but warm is better), and hung over a line to dry, in readiness for the morning ; or it can be wiped dry at once, and rolled up with the tapes in the centre. Such is the dressing for the night; in the morning the leg can be washed, but, whether it is or not, all traces of oil or cerate should be carefully wiped away, as contact with the bandage of any fatty matter would tend gradually to injure the rubber. “ This is the whole treatment. Rubber bandage all day, with erect position and exercise. The simplest possible dressing (merely to protect the ulcer from injury), with the horizontal position and rest all night. When the bandage is removed at night, it and the leg will be found to be bathed in moisture. That part of the limb to which the bandage was applied has been all day kept warm, moist, and perfectly excluded from the air, in an atmosphere and conditions the most favorable possible for the pro-