596 PSEUDO-VENEREAL AFFECTIONS. attacked the face and skin generally, in the form of malignant pustules, which were followed by ulceration and by caries of the bones.1 It was described by MM. Percy and Laurent2 as commencing with lassitude and pains in the bones, which increased at night: the voice became hoarse, deglutition was difficult, the uvula, tongue and pharynx became red and aphthous; ulcers formed, and were followed by caries of the bones, and by the discharge of fetid pus. The disease was said to have been imported by four sailors, who came from the banks of the Danube after the war against the Turks. The disease was probably identical with syphilis. Falcadina.—A disease which appeared in the year 1786, in the village of Falcado, contiguous to the Tyrol; its occurrence was attributed to importation through a female mendicant with ulceration of the pudendal mucous mem- brane. After general uneasiness, lassitude, sickness, osteocopic pains, and fever, a pustular swelling of the lips and mouth appeared, which proceeded to ulceration, affecting the velum palati, uvula, tonsils, and nasal mucous membrane ; an eruption of a livid red color also appeared upon the skin. This disease was probably identical with scherlievo and syphilis.3 Amboyna Pimple.—A disease occurring in Amboyna and the Molucca Islands, described by Bonetus in 1718, characterized by ulceration of the soft parts, and by exostoses and caries of the bones, and transmitted inde- pendently of sexual intercourse.4 Lancereaux5 considers it identical with syphilis. Disease of St. Euphemia.—Under this name is described by Lancereaux6 a disease which was observed in 1727 in St. Euphemia. A midwife had a pustule on her hand, followed by a general eruption of herpes; in the prac- tice of her profession she communicated the disease to many women, whose bodies became covered with pustules, ulcers, and hard tubercles. The dis- ease is considered by Lancereaux to have been a variety of syphilis. Pian of Nerac.—This disease showed itself in Nerac in 1752, and is sup- posed to have originated from suckling a syphilitic child ; the disease was tirst communicated to the nurse, and then to other children which used the same breast; it very much resembled the preceding disease.7 Disease of St. Paul’s Bay.—Swediaur8 described under this name a dis- ease which appeared in Canada in the year 1760, among the fishing popula- tion of St. Paul’s Bay. The disease first manifested itself in pustules on the lips, mouth, and tongue; these pustules were filled with a whitish fluid which was very contagious. At a later period the patients suffered from large ulcers, glandular swellings in the groin and throat,' and violent noc- turnal pains in the osseous tissues, with caries of the nasal, palate, and cranial bones, and sometimes loss of sight and hearing. Dr. Stratton, who observed the disease among the North American Indians, found that it was most common among children and females, and that when it first appeared it was cpiite fatal. He did not consider it identical with syphilis, in this respect differing from Swediaur, Lancereaux, and Berkeley Hill. i Ibid. 1 Lancereaux, op. cit., p. 41. 3 Craigie, op. cit., p. 725. 6 Lancereaux, op. cit., p. 38. 2 Copland, Diet, of Pract. Med., vol. iv. p. 1336. 4 Copland, op. cit., p. 1339. 3 Ibid. * Treatise on Syphilis, p. 451.