711 BURSjE of elbow and vicinity. For the production of this symptom, the scapula must he in such a position that its inferior angle is closely applied to the thorax. It is due to one of three conditions, viz., (1) an exostosis on the ribs or scapula, which has caused an absorption of the subscapular and serratus magnus muscles, thus allowing the two bony surfaces to come into contact; (2) a localized projection of the ribs due to a contraction of the chest, following pleurisy, for instance, with the same atrophy of the muscles ; or, finally, (3) a primary atrophy of the muscles, such as is common in anchylosis of the scapulohumeral joint, which will admit of the normal scapula and ribs coming in contact. This latter condi- tion preeminently gives rise to exaggerated movement of the scapula, which is an important factor in the production of this bursa. All these conditions have been verified by actual post-mortem examination. Symptoms.—The inferior angle of the scapula is raised by a fluctuating swelling, which bulges from beneath both the axillary and vertebral borders of the bone. The same portions of the bone are slightly raised in cases where the effusion is too slight for detection, as if from paresis of the mus- cles. There is marked feebleness of the shoulder, especially in elevating the arm. There is no tenderness, nor any symptom of disease of the subjacent ribs or neighboring vertebrae. The ordinary crackling from melon-seed bodies can be readily detected, but where there is much effusion, the peculiar “ cracking” cannot be developed, owing to the separation of the two bony surfaces. Diagnosis.—This can be readily made by remembering that any position of the upper extremity which prevents accurate contact of the inferior angle of the scapula with the thorax, will prevent either the hearing—for it is some- times very loud—or the feeling of the crepitus. By bringing the arm, much elevated, firmly across the chest, the cracking cannot be elicited, so that the idea of fracture can be no longer entertained. By fixing the scapula in this position by means of an assistant, manipulation of the shoulder-joint—when the case is not due to anchylosis, true or false—will soon prove that the articulation is healthy. Treatment.—The trapezius, rhomboids, elevator of the scapular angle, and serratus magnus, seem to be the weakened muscles. Electricity appears to be useless, so that Terrillon has been compelled to resort to a mechanical apparatus which firmly fixes the scapula against the chest-wall. This is the only remedy which has proved successful. Burs;e of Elbow and Yicinity. A bursa is situated beneath the brachialis anticus ; another over each con- dyle of the humerus; one between the common origin of the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the extensor communis digitorum on one side, and the head of the radius on the other ;x a subcutaneous one over the olecranon ; an- other beneath the triceps tendon over the upper surface of the olecranon ;1 2 and one between the tubercle of the radius and the tendon of the biceps.3 It is said that a bursa is sometimes found over the superior part of the left fore- arm in wall-paper manufacturers. 1 I have seen, in one case, considerable inability to use the forearm in enlargement of this bursa, due probably to pressure upon the radial or posterior interosseous nerve. 2 This is often a mere prolongation of the synovial capsule of the joint. (Barwell, Diseases of Joints, 1881, p. 488.) * Dr. D. H. Agnew reports a case of chronic enlargement of this bursa, which, by pressure upon the median and posterior interosseous nerves, produced loss of power in the forearm muscles. (Transactions of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, vol. ii. p. 139.)