THE BULLOUS SYPHILODERM. 503 not altered in color, nor is the outline of the growth discernible. The deposit increases slowly in volume, until through a period of weeks or months it gradually assumes definite shape and consistence. It is now seen to be a more or less rounded tumor, imbedded in the subcutaneous tissues, the skin over which becomes pinkish or reddish. In size it may vary from that of a hazelnut to that of a walnut, or even larger, with a slightly elevated semi- globular shape, and with a soft, doughy, somewhat elastic feel. Gummata are usually solitary, rarely occurring more than one or two at a time. They may occur in any part of the body, but are most commonly met with in the looser and softer tissues, as upon the flexor surface of the ex- tremities, the abdomen, the sides of the thorax, the penis, etc. (Plate XIII. Fig. 3.) The surnma tends strongly to break down and ulcerate, with destruction of the tissues in which it has its seat. The ulcer is a circumscribed, deep excavation, usually rounded in form, with abrupt, perpendicular edges. It may vary from the size of a finger-nail to that of the hand. Its bottom is uneven, and covered with a grayish-red gummy deposit. The loss of tissue is usually great, but the process of repair leaves often a much less marked cicatrix than would have been predicted. Gummata are occasionally ab- sorbed without ulceration. The diagnosis of the gumma is usually not difficult. It is to be distin- guished from furuncle and from abscess, from enlarged lymphatic glands, from carcinoma, and from fibrous and fatty growths. I think the gumma is more apt to be confounded with abscess than with any other affection. I have often seen gummata which have been mistakenly poulticed until they have broken down into ulcers. This is an unfortunate mistake, as the early administration of iodide of potassium will often put back and cause absorp- tion of the syphiloma, thus shortening the duration of the affection, and in many cases preventing the subsequent formation of a scar. The history of the case, the freedom from pain and febrile reaction in a lesion which to the eye presents the appearance of marked and decided inflammation, as well as the history of its slow and usually painless evolution, will serve to stamp the suspected furuncle or abscess as in reality a gumma. The gummatous ulcer will be diagnosed from the non-syphilitic ulcer by its history, depth, sharply defined edges, and punched-out appearance ;x by the character of the secretion; the absence, as a rule, of pain, excepting in gummatous ulcers of the leg, when pain is often present; and the presence, in many cases, of other symptoms of syphilis. The Bullous Syphiloderm. The bullous syphiloderm1 2 is characterized by blebs containing a clear, watery fluid, which tends soon to become cloudy and thick. At times, indeed, the lesions are more like pustules than blebs. In size they vary from that of a pea to that of a walnut. They are discrete, disseminated, circular or ovalish in form, and surrounded with a slight areola. They may be fully or only partially distended, but after lasting a variable time they break, the contents drying into yellowish, brownish, or dark greenish crusts. These sometimes assume a heaped-up, oyster shell-like appearance which gives rise to the name rupia, applied to this eruption as well as the large flat pustular syphiloderm above described. Beneath the crusts are seen erosions or shallow ulcers, which in 1 This characteristic is shown in PI. XIII. Fig. 3. 2 Formerly, to the confusion of the student, caHed “ syphilitic pemphigus.”