99 BITES OF OTHER ANIMALS. an egg to the whiskey (the two being beaten up together) every two, three, or four hours, would probably prove judicious. The after-treatment of eases of this kind will suggest itself: a condition of debility often ensues, requiring the free use of the ordinary tonics, quinine, iron, strychnia, and, perhaps, the mineral acids. But, as lias been already said, there is sometimes a remarkably rapid return to health upon the elimi- nation of the poison, in which ease no after-treatment will be required. Bites of Other Animals. The peculiar symptoms often induced by the bites of rabid dogs, cats, and other animals of allied tribes, constituting the disease known as hydrophobia, have been made the subject of a special article (vol. i. p. 215). In most cases of this kind, opportunity is afforded to determine, either by previous knowl- edge or by subsequent observation, whether the animal which inflicted the bite had or had not been hydrophobic. But symptoms, either of this or of other forms of poisoning, to be presently mentioned, occasionally arise from bites inflicted by wild animals, or animals of which nothing is known. Thus a case is reported by Acting-Assistant Surgeon Wolfe, U. S. A.,1 of a boy, aged 12, who was attacked with a fatal disease, resembling in all respects hydro- phobia as ordinarily met with, three weeks after receiving two bites from a skunk. Other such cases have been placed on record, and the name “rabies mephitica” has been given to the malady. Now it can scarcely he sup- posed that hydrophobia could prevail among wild beasts, especially as travel- lers inform us that the disease is wholly unknown among the half-savage dogs which swarm about Constantinople and other eastern cities. Were it otherwise, the propagation of the poison would be so rapid, in the constant fighting of these animals, as to exterminate them in no long time. Hence we must infer, if the facts are known and justly interpreted, either that spo- radic cases of hydrophobia do occur among animals, either domesticated or wild, or that the disease may be developed in man by the bite of an animal which is itself healthy. The bites of cats, although sometimes very severe, do not seem to have any special effect in the way of causing blood-poisoning. I have seen one case in which a sick cat bit a servant-girl on the thumb, tearing the tissues deeply for over an inch ; the wound was cauterized, and healed kindly, and the pa- tient continued well, to my knowledge, for several years. Injuries inflicted by the larger felines, as by lions, tigers, etc., are sometimes met with among the employes of menageries; several such instances have occurred in this city within the last twenty years. A good deal of shock seems to attend these cases, and in one of lion-bite, reported by Dr. John Ash- hurst, Jr.,2 the rapid occurrence of traumatic or spreading gangrene was a noticeable feature, the patient dying in forty-eight hours. No evidence, however, exists to show that there is any actual blood-poisoning, any more than in injuries of like gravity sustained in railroad or other accidents. The same may be said of the shark-bites occasionally observed along the sea- shore, or in bathers in large rivers near the ocean. Such cases are not un- common in India, and several have occurred in New York within a year or two. One case of apparent blood-poisoning from the bite of a rat has come under my own observation,3 and seems of sufficient interest to be detailed here:— 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Oct. 1875, p. 567. 8 See vol. i. p. 561. 3 It was published in the Philadelphia Medical Times, August 1, 1872.