THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY. H 1belp in Stcfeness ano Convalescence. BY E. M. WORSNOP, FIRST-CLASS DIPLOMEE OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, AND FOR SIXTEEN YEARS TEACHER OF COOKERY UNDER THE LONDON SCHOOL BOARD, ASSISTED BY M. C. BLAIR. ' Tt is not too much to say that no nurse is fully qualified for her profession who cannot cook, and show others how to cook, the dishes most often in use in the sick room.' Wellcome's Professional Nurse's Diary. ADAM LONDON: AND CHARLES 1897. BLACK.JO v ^WELLCOME INSTITUTE X UFA-'Y Coll. welMOmec No. ■V _V J-TO MISS DAVENPORT HILL, m.l.s.b., WHOSE INTEREST IN THE WORK OF COOKERY FOR MANY YEARS, AS CHAIRMAN OF THE COOKERY COMMITTEE OF THE LONDON SCHOOL BOARD, ENDEARED HER TO ALL WITH WHOM SHE CAME IN CONTACT, THIS LITTLE WORK IS, WITH HER KIND PERMISSION, MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY A GRATEFUL TEACHER.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION BEEF-TEA, SOUPS AND BROTHS RECIPES FOR DITTO FISH - RECIPES FOR DITTO MEAT, POULTRY, ETC. RECIPES FOR DITTO VEGETABLES RECIPES FOR DITTO FARINACEOUS FOODS, ETC. - DRIED PEAS, BEANS, AND LENTILS - MILK, EGGS, BUTTER, CHEESE FRUIT - RECIPES FOR EGGS, SWEETS, AND BREAD RECIPES FOR SAUCES RECIPES FOR DRINKS RECIPES FOR PEPTONISING FOOD A NURSING NOTE INDEXINTRODUCTION A cursory glance at the library of cookery might lead one to suppose that another addition could only be regarded as superfluous. But a more careful analysis would indicate that though of cookery books there is no end, and whilst those in health, as also the seriously ill, have been well catered for, yet the weary days of convalescence —when doses of beef-tea, and the usual limited fare, have become distasteful—have been well-nigh over- looked. We trust, therefore, this little compilation of varied and judiciously selected recipes will find a useful niche after all, and prove what it aims to be—a real help to the nurse in convalescent cases, as well as in those of serious illness. The compiler has been an enthusiastic and suc- cessful teacher of cookery for sixteen years in one of the centres of the London School Board, and is thoroughly qualified for producing a work of this kind. No recipe has been merely copied or roughly put together, but each one has been repeatedlyINTRODUCTION vi tried, and is written so lucidly that anyone with an elementary knowledge of the subject can work from it. The scientific principle of rendering all food as digestible as possible—which is the basis of all good cookery, and never more important than during the tardy process of restoration to health—is present throughout, and the explanatory notes introducing each section of recipes will be found most instructive and helpful to the amateur. Emily Briggs, Superintendent of Cookery to the London School Board. The compiler wishes to thank Messrs. Fairchild Bros, and Foster for permission to use the recipes for peptonising food, and Messrs. Virtue for allowing the insertion of three recipes from 'French Cookery for English Ladies' by Madame Lebour-Fawssett.i THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY BEEF-TEA, SOUPS AND BROTHS. In cooking meat we should always have one of two objects in view; either to extract or to retain the red juice, which contains many substances of the greatest value as food. In preparing beef-tea, soups and broths, our object, then, is to extract this valuable juice as much as possible. This can only be done thoroughly by shredding the meat very finely, chopping the bones into very small pieces, and putting both into cold water. If hot or boiling water were used, the heat would cause the albumen on the outside of the meat to solidify and form a crust or coating, and so retain or seal up, instead of extracting, the nutritive properties. The meat for beef or veal tea should, after all skin and fat have been removed, be shredded as finely as possible, as this allows the cold water to extract the juice far more easily than if the meat is only cut into small pieces. The meat should then stand in the2 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY cold water with a little salt (as this also helps to extract the nutriment), when the water will be found to be a bright red, and the meat of a grey colour. The meat and water should then be placed in a jar with a closely-fitting lid, or be tied over firmly with paper, and the jar be placed in a saucepan of cold water, which should be allowed slowly to come to the boil, and kept simmering for one hour. By this gentle heat the beef-tea will be well cooked. It should never be allowed to boil, as at boiling-point the albumen becomes hardened, and this renders it indigestible. For soups or broths, cut up the meat and chop the bones very finely, and put them into cold water with a little salt and moist sugar (the latter by softening the water helps to extract the nutriment), and allow them to simmer slowly for six or eight hours. By these means no coating of solid albumen is formed, but the juices slowly pass into the water, producing a nourishing soup. If the lid of the sauce- pan does not fit very tightly, it is of importance to place a weight on it to prevent the escape of the steam, which would carry off with it much of the nutrition. Beef-Tea. J lb. gravy beef or steak. J pint cold water. A pinch of salt. Remove all skin and fat from the meat, and shred it very finely; put it into a jar containing the cold water and salt, and let it stand from two to three hours. Cover the jar closely (if there is no lid, tie aRAW BEEF-TEA—BEEF ESSENCE—BEEF-TEA JELLY 3 piece of greased paper over), and place it in a sauce- pan of cold water. Let the water come very slowly to boiling-point, and simmer slowly for one hour or longer. Beef-tea should always be strained through rather a coarse strainer, so as not to lose the small brown particles, and then should have several pieces of kitchen paper passed over the top to absorb any fat. Raw Beef-Tea. (in typhoid fever cases.) 4 oz. lean gravy beef. 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. Shred the beef very finely; let it stand fifteen minutes in the cold water, stirring frequently. Then strain, and serve in covered feeding-cup or coloured glass on account of the objectionable colour. Excellent for gastric or typhoid fever. Beef Essence. Cut one pound of juicy beefsteak into very small pieces; place it in a wide-necked bottle and cork tightly. Stand the bottle in a saucepan of cold water, and let the water boil slowly till all the juice is extracted from the meat. Flavour with a little salt. One or two teaspoonfuls to be given at a time. Beef-Tea Jelly. ^ lb. gravy beef. I pint cold water. 1 teaspoonful isinglass or gelatine. A very little salt Prepare as for beef-tea, adding to the meat, water and salt when in the jar one teaspoonful isinglass, or 1—2THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OE COOKERY 4 best gelatine. When done, strain through a coarse strainer into a wet mould or basin. This is useful when beef-tea cannot be taken hot. An Excellent Compound Meat-Tea. ^ lb. gravy beef. | lb. lean mutton. ^ lb. lean veal, pints cold water. i saltspoon salt. Prepare the meat as for beef-tea; sprinkle over it the salt, pour over the cold water, and let it stand from two to three hours in a jar. Then place this jar, which must have a closely-fitting lid, or be tied over with greased kitchen paper, in a saucepan of cold water; bring it gradually to boiling-point, and let it simmer slowly for one hour. Then strain and remove every particle'of fat. Flavour with pepper, if allowed. Beef-Tea Custard. i egg. J pint beef-tea. A pinch of salt. Beat the egg thoroughly; add to it whilst beating the beef-tea and salt. Pour into a well-buttered cup, cover with buttered paper, and steam very slowly fifteen to twenty minutes. Mutton-Tea. ij lb. lean mutton, i "pint cold water. J oz. pearl barley. A very little salt. Chop the meat very finely ; wash the barley. Put both into a stewpan with the cold water; simmer very slowly for three hours, removing all scum as it rises. Strain through a wire sieve, rubbing through a little of the barley; add salt to taste, and, ifVEAL-TEA-MUTTON BROTH-CALF'S-FOOT BROTH 5 allowed, pepper. It is best to let this tea stand till it is quite cold, when the fat can be easily taken off; if required at once, pass kitchen paper over the top till every particle of fat is removed. Veal-Tea. Proceed exactly as for mutton-tea; but instead of adding barley, thicken ten minutes before serving with one teaspoonful of arrowroot mixed into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Mutton Broth. 2 lb. scrag end of neck of mutton. 1 quart cold water. 1 oz. pearl barley. 1 turnip. 1 carrot. 1 onion or leek. A few sprigs of parsley. Pepper and salt to taste. Wash and cut up the mutton ; put it into a stew- pan with the cold water and salt. When it boils, remove carefully the scum. Prepare the vegetables ; cut them into small pieces; add them to the broth. Wash the barley; add it also. Simmer gently for two hours, skimming frequently ; then strain through a sieve, and season to taste. If possible, allow the broth to stand until it is cold, as the fat can then be removed more thoroughly. The parsley can be either tied in a bunch, and added with the vegetables, or chopped finely, and added just before serving. Calf's-Foot Broth. 1 calf's foot. 1 quart milk. 1 pint cold water. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. ^ teaspoonful salt. Wash and split a calf's foot. Put it into an enamelled pan with the milk, water, sugar, and salt.6 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Stew very slowly for five hours. Or put all into a jar, tie the lid down firmly, and place it in a slow oven for eight hours. Then strain through a sieve ; when" cold, remove the fat. When heated for use, season to taste with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, or, if liked, this can be served as a sweet with sugar and lemon-juice. Cut the meat into small pieces, chop the bone (if any), put all into a saucepan or stock-pot, with the salt and cold water ; bring it nearly to boiling-point, skimming it well. Prepare the vegetables, cut them into small pieces, add them with peppercorns, sugar, herbs, or celery, and simmer very slowly five or six hours, skimming now and then. Strain through a sieve and set aside till cold, when the stock should be a firm jelly and the fat can be easily removed. One pint of water is allowed to each pound of meat, and one pint over. The meat and vegetables make good second stock by adding fresh vegetables and water, and any scraps. For invalids and convalescents stock is better made freshly. The quantities given above will make one quart, and more should not be made at once. White Stock is made as above, substituting veal or knuckle of veal for beef. Stock. 2 lb. shin of beef. 2 carrots, i leek. J turnip, i onion. i bunch of herbs or stick of celery. ^ teaspoonful salt. | teaspoonful moist sugar. 3 pints cold water. 6 peppercorns.VEAL CREAM-GERMAN EGG SOUP-CELERY SOUP 7 Veal Cream. i lb. lean veal, i quart cold water. 4 peppercorns. J lb. pearl barley. Salt to taste. Cut the veal into small pieces, wash the barley. Put them into a stewpan with the cold water, cover closely and simmer gently until the quart is reduced to a pint. Rub all through a wire sieve, return to the stewpan to make it hot, and salt to taste. It should be of the consistency of thick cream. German Egg Soup. i yolk of egg. i pint water. J oz. butter. 2 or 3 lumps sugar. Beat up the yolk of egg in the pint of water thoroughly. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sugar. Keep beating until it boils and has a thick froth. Serve hot. Very useful for a cold. Celery Soup. 3 heads celery. 2 yolks of eggs, i quart white stock. i oz. butter. $ pint milk or cream. J teaspoonful sugar. Salt and pepper to taste. Cut the celery into small pieces, wash it, and put it into a pan of boiling water for five minutes to blanch it. Then strain it and put it into a stewpan with the stock, butter, and sugar. Simmer until tender, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan and let it boil ; add the yolks of eggs well beaten and the cream or milk. Season to taste.8 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Vegetable-Marrow or Pumpkin Soup. 2 lb. vegetable marrow or pumpkin, i large onion, i oz. butter. oz. flour, i pint milk, ij pints white stock, i teaspoonful sugar. Salt and pepper to taste. Peel and cut the marrow into squares, put them into an enamelled stewpan with the onion (scalded and sliced),* butter, sugar, and a little salt and pepper; put the lid on and simmer about ten minutes, taking care the vegetables do not brown or burn. Then add the stock, stew slowly about twenty minutes, or until the vegetables pulp. Strain, and rub through a wire sieve and return to the pan. Mix the flour smoothly with a little of the milk, add the rest of the milk and stir into the soup; continue stirring till it boils. Season to taste. A quarter of a pint of cream added just before serving is a great improvement. Cheese Soup. i quart milk. 1 lb. cheese. 2 oz. butter. i gill cream, i oz. flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Slice half the cheese and put it into an enamelled saucepan with the milk, salt, and pepper. Simmer 'it slowly till the cheese is dissolved. Mix the butter and flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk, pour into the pan and stir until it boils. Then pass through a wire sieve. Return it to the pan, add the other half of the cheese finely grated. Simmer gently for ten minutes, but do not allow the soup to boil again, * See Note on Vegetables.9 WHITE SOUBISE SOUP or it will curdle. Just before serving add the cream, and season to taste. If liked, half milk and half white stock can be used. This is a most nourishing soup for convalescents not suffering from weak digestion. Take three good-sized onions, peel them, and cut them into small pieces; put into your stewpan two ounces butter; when melted over a small fire, put the lid on, and let the onions cook for one hour ; the steam will prevent them frying, but be very careful that they do not brown. Make hot one pint of milk and half a pint of good white stock, and pour it by degrees into the pan with the onions ; put in any pieces of stale white crumb of bread you have by you, not in lumps, but sliced ; add some pepper and a few bacon rinds or a small bone of bacon ; put back the lid ; let the whole simmer for one hour at least. Then pass all through a sieve, crushing the bread and onions with a wooden spoon ; if too thin, let it boil some time to reduce it. Then pour it into the soup-tureen ; if too thick, add a little milk. Valuable in kidney disease, when patients have a dislike to onions, and are ordered them, as it is a refined and palatable soup. White Soubise Soup. (SOUBISE BLANCHE.) 3 good-sized onions. 2 oz. butter, i pint milk. ^ pint good white stock. Stale white crumb of bread. Rinds of bacon or small bone of bacon. Pepper.io THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Haricot Puree. 1 pint haricot beans. i pint milk. 2 onions, scalded. ^ pint cream. £ oz. butter or dripping. i strip celery or J teaspoonful 2 quarts white stock or water. celery-seeds. Salt and pepper to taste. Soak the beans in cold water for twelve hours, then strain them, and, if possible, leave them to dry for twenty-four hours. (This drying again causes the starch in the beans to commence to change into sugar, making them more palatable and easier to digest.) Then put them into a saucepan with the cold stock, and butter or dripping. When the soup boils, add the onions sliced and the celery (if seeds are used, tie them in a piece of muslin). Simmer from two to four hours, or until the beans are quite soft; the time varies very much : if the beans are stale, they require a long time to soften. The butter or dripping helps to soften them. When quite tender, strain the soup through a wire sieve; rub the beans, etc., through with a wooden spoon. Return the soup to the saucepan, add the milk, cream, pepper, and salt; stir until the soup is quite hot. Potato Puree. 2 lb. potatoes, parboiled. i leek, i onion. i quart white stock, i strip celery or £ teaspoonful i pint milk, celery-seeds. i pint cream. Salt and pepper to taste. Prepare the potatoes, put them into boiling water with a little salt, boil for five minutes. Then strain them and cut into slices, put them into a saucepan with the stock (boiling) and the vegetables ; simmer until tender. Proceed as directed for haricot puree.11 GIBLET BROTH-ARTICHOKE SOUP Giblet Broth. i set of fowl's giblets. i quart white stock or water. i small onion. i small blade of mace. 2 cloves. 2 tablespoonfuls semolina, tapioca, vermicelli or mac- aroni. Prepare and wash the giblets thoroughly, cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with the stock or water (cold), and the cloves and mace. When they boil, skim well; add the onion, peeled, scalded, and sliced. Simmer very gently from two to three hours, or until the broth is reduced to half the quantity. Then strain, return to the saucepan, add the semolina or tapioca, and boil slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Season to taste, and serve. This could be thickened, for a change, with vermicelli or macaroni; if the latter, put it into boiling water with a little salt, boil until tender (about one hour), then cut into half-inch lengths and add it to the broth. Half a glass of marsala added to this is a great improvement. Peel and wash the artichokes, prepare the onions and celery ; put them into a stewpan with the stock or water, mace, sugar and salt. Boil for about an hour, or until the artichokes are tender, then strain and rub through a sieve. Return to the stewpan, Artichoke Soup. ij lb. Jerusalem artichokes, i onion. i strip celery or J teaspoonful Pepper and salt to taste, i pint white stock or water. celery-seeds, i small blade mace, i teaspoonful castor sugar. i pint milk. J pint cream i oz. butter, i oz. flour.12 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY add the butter and flour kneaded together and made into a paste with a little of the milk; add the rest of the milk, stir until it boils, then add the cream, and season to taste. Prepare the spinach and onions, shell the peas and put aside a large cupful. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add to it the rest of the peas and the other vege- tables, and a good handful of the shells well washed. Put the lid on, and let them steam for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, and taking care they do not burn. Then pour over them the stock (boiling), add the ham cut into small pieces, and the sugar and salt. Boil slowly for one hour, then pass all through a sieve, return to the saucepan and stir until the soup boils ; add salt to taste. While the soup is being rubbed through the sieve, boil the cupful of peas in sufficient boiling water to cover them, with a very little salt. When quite tender, pour them and the water that may remain with them into a hot soup- tureen, and pour the boiling soup over them. This soup should be a pale green colour. If not green enough, press the juice from a few leaves of boiled spinach ; add a few drops until it is the right colour. Green-Pea Soup. J peck fresh green peas. 3 spring onions. A good handful of spinach. i£ oz. butter. i quart white stock. A slice of lean ham. \ teaspoon ful sugar. Salt to taste.OX-TAIL SOUP-CLEAR SOUP 13 Ox-Tail Soup. tail. 6 cloves. I ox 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 bouquet garnie (bunch of herbs). 1 strip celery. 6 peppercorns. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful moist sugar. ^ teaspoonful mustard. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 4 pints stock or water. Cut the tail into pieces about one inch long, dredge them well with the flour; make the butter quite hot in a stewpan, fry the pieces of tail until a good brown. Then take them out, add the vegetables, prepared and cut into small pieces ; when these are brown, return the tail to the stewpan with the stock or water, herbs, sugar, seasoning. When it boils, remove the scum ; simmer two hours, or until the meat is tender, then lift out carefully the pieces of tail; strain the soup through a sieve, re-heat it with the pieces of tail. Season to taste, and add one glass of port or marsala. Clear Soup. 4 lb. shin of beef. 2 gallons water. 1 rabbit, without the head. 4 onions, stuck with 1 dozen cloves. 4 good-sized carrots. 1 head celery. A few bay-leaves. A little cinnamon. A few peppercorns. Put the beef through a mincing machine, cut the rabbit in small pieces, cut the vegetables very small, and put all in the stockpot together with the water. Let it come to the boil slowly, and skim well till there is no scum left; let it simmer by the side of the fire for six hours. Put a glass of sherry in the soup tureen, and strain the soup through a fine napkin over a hairTHE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY '4 sieve. It will require no eggs to clear it if it has been well watched while coming to the boil. It should be as clear as sherry. Consomme a l'lmperatrice. (clear soup with poached eggs.) Take good consomme made the day before, so that you only take the clear part, and leave the sediment alone. (Some of the clear soup described above will do excellently.) As soon as the stock is boiling, and only at the moment when the soup is wanted, poach in it a fresh egg; the smaller the egg, the better. Serve hot, and be careful not to break the egg. Tomato Soup. 8 good-sized tomatoes. A bunch of sweet herbs, i quart stock. i onion stuck with cloves. The yolks of 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. A little allspice. Cut the tomatoes in half, put them in a saucepan with the herbs and the onion, some allspice, whole pepper, and salt. Cook them slowly till quite soft, then put them through a hair sieve, and stir them into a quart of boiling stock; add the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little cold water. Serve with sippets of toast or fried bread. Cold Beef-Tea. 1 lb. lean beef. A pinch of salt. 1 pint cold water. Chop one pound of good but lean beef as finely as for sausage-meat, and add one pint of cold water. MixCHICKEN BROTH—'POT-A V-FEU well, and simmer by the fire in a covered vessel for three hours. Put in while simmering a small pinch of salt, strain it through clear muslin and strainer, and when perfectly cold take off the fat in a cake. Do not make it from the leg of beef, as that pro- duces a jelly when cold. The best way to simmer this is to place it in a jar, and to stand the jar in a pan of water. Chicken Broth. i chicken. i piece loaf sugar. i quart cold water. Pepper and salt to taste. Cut up the chicken and break the leg bones. Put it into a saucepan with the cold water, piece of loaf sugar, pepper, and salt. Let it simmer from three to four hours very gently, skimming occasionally. Then strain, and when cold remove the fat. If liked, the broth may be thickened with two table- spoonfuls of semolina, pearl barley, crushed tapioca or macaroni; if the latter, boil it well in boiling water with a little salt until quite tender, then drain, cut into half-inch lengths, and add to the broth when re-heating for serving. When onions are allowed, a small one may be boiled with the chicken. Pot-au-Feu. 2J lb. boiling beef; if without bone, add i pennyworth of bones. 2 quarts cold water. 2 leeks. A little parsley. 2 carrots, i turnip. Slices of bread. A little celery. Pepper and salt. Place the beef and bones in a pan with the cold water, and bring gently to the boil, skimming well16 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY as the scum rises. Simmer by the side of the fire for four hours or more. When it has cooked for two hours, add pepper and salt, two carrots, two leeks, one turnip, a little parsley, and a little celery. (Wash the leeks, but cut nothing off.) When serving, cut the bread in thin slices, place in the tureen, pour a little of the liquid over, and cover with a plate. After a few minutes, strain the rest of the soup over it, and serve. The meat from the pot-au-feu must not be given to invalids, but a cupful of the bouillon will be much appreciated as a change from ordinary clear soup, as the flavour of vegetables is so good. If served with a poached egg instead of the bread, it would be a further variety and very nourishing. Meat Essence. (very strengthening.) 4 lb. shin of beef. A fowl. 4 lb. knuckle of veal. Cut all up small, and take away the skin and bone. Put the meat into an earthen jar, tie over the lid close, and over that a paste, and tie down again with a cloth, so as to prevent any evaporation. The chicken bones may be placed on the top of the meat, and add a little salt and butter, but no water. Place the jar in a large saucepan, with plenty of water round, to keep simmering for eight hours at least; then pour off the essence, and give in small quan- tities to the patient either as a jelly or liquid, whichever is preferred.17 BEEF FOR INVALIDS-CHICKEN PANADA Beef for Invalids (1). £ lb. beef steak. Salt and pepper. Water. Put the meat twice through the mincing machine. Just cover with boiling water, add salt, pepper, if allowed, and simmer three minutes. Serve with sippets of toast. Beef for Invalids (2). 1 lb. beef steak. Salt and pepper. 1 pint water. Put the meat twice through the mincing machine, place in a jug, and add one pint of water, salt, and seasoning, if allowed. Place the jug in a pan of water, bring the water to the boil, and simmer for half an hour. Serve with the meat in it. Chicken Panada. Pepper if allowed. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tablespoonful cream. milk. Half a chicken, raw. Breadcrumbs. Salt. 1 gill- Cut the meat off half a raw chicken into small pieces. Put them in a jar, sprinkle over the salt, and cover closely. Stand the jar in a saucepan of water to come halfway up the jar; let the water boil two hours. Then pound the meat, or chop it very finely, and pass it through a sieve, adding the liquor in the jar to help it to pass through. Put it into a stewpan with the milk; .add enough bread- crumbs to thicken it, and let it simmer five minutes, stirring all the time. Then remove from the fire; add the yolks of eggs, well beaten, and the cream. Serve, if liked, with sippets of toast. 218 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY FISH. Fish is valuable as an article of food, being nourish- ing and easily digested. It contains less flesh- forming matter than meat or the flesh of birds, hence it is of less nutritive value; but the potash, salts, and phosphates of lime it contains are essential mineral constituents of food. The digestibility of fish, and its nutritive quality, greatly depend on thorough cleansing and cooking, but also on its being in season, for when out of season it is quite unfit for food. As a rule, this can be detected at once by the semi-transparency and want of firmness of the flesh. Fish should also be very fresh. An easy way to test this is to press the finger on the flesh; if fresh it will be firm and elastic, but if it is soft, and an impression is made, it is stale. Fish is, roughly speaking, divided into two classes —the white and the oily. The former is the most wholesome and easily digested, as the oil and fat the white fish contain are found chiefly in the liver. Whiting contains the least fat of any, and is therefore the most digestible, and highly nutritious. Many doctors order plaice instead of sole in cases of dyspepsia, as the flesh is lighter. As white fish are wanting in carbonaceous matters, it is necessary that they should be served with starchy foods in order that the right proportion of heat-givers should be added to the flesh-formers they contain. The principal white fish are : Whiting, sole, plaice, turbot, flounders, cod, etc.FISH—TO BOIL FISH 19 The principal oily fish are: Salmon, mackerel, herrings, etc. In these the oil and fat are found throughout the flesh, and they are therefore more difficult of digestion, although more satisfying. A dry, tough, woolly texture also shows that the flesh is indigestible. Lobsters, crabs, and all shell fish, with the exception of oysters, are very difficult to digest. Oysters are far more easy of digestion when eaten raw, as the nitrogenous matter they contain is rendered tough and insoluble by heat. Salted white fish contains very little nutriment, as the salting process extracts a very large proportion of it, and hardens the fibrin; and when, as in the case of salt cod, the fish is soaked before cooking, very little, if any, of the nourishment remains. The fat of the oily fish, such as salmon or herrings, is not removed by salting, so they are valuable as food, but not easy to digest. The modes of cooking which retain the whole of the nutritive properties are the best and most advan- tageous, such as steaming or baking (see recipes). If fish is boiled, only just enough water to create steam should be used, as the fish itself contains such a large proportion of water; also because much of the flavour is lost if boiled in a large quantity. To boil Fish. All fish, with the exception of salmon, should be put into hot, not boiling, water; the latter cracks the skin and spoils the appearance. Salmon is put into it to set the colour. Very little water should be used 2—2THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY (one pint for two or three pounds). The fins of the fish should be added to the water, as they contain gelatinous substance, especially in the case of turbot. If the water the fish has been boiled in is afterwards used for the sauce, it will have a better flavour, and any nutriment that may have escaped into the water will not be lost. A tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, added to the water, helps to whiten the fish and keep it firm. The white side of a turbot should be rubbed with a cut lemon to keep it white, and the black skin be Cut across in several places to prevent the white skin cracking, which would spoil its appearance when sent to table. Fish should be boiled very slowly, and skimmed frequently. No special time can be given for boiling fish; it depends greatly on the thickness and on the kind of fish. A short thick fish weighing the same as a long flat one would require longer cooking than the latter. The fish should be tried after ten or fifteen minutes with a skewer; if the flesh easily leaves the bones it is done, and should be taken up at once, or it will break and the flavour be spoilt. To fry Fish. Well-fried fish is never greasy; the outer coating of egg and crumbs, or batter, prevents the fat soak- ing into the fish; but to obtain this desired end several rules must be observed. The fish, after washing, must be well dried first with a cloth, and then rubbed with a little flour to ensure its being thoroughly dry; if it is at all damp, the egg and crumbs, or batter, will not adhere to it.OYSTERS-OYSTERS A LA BLANCHE 2 I A stewpan, not a frying-pan, should be used, so that there maybe sufficient fat to cover what is being fried, and so to brown it on both sides at once, and prevent the risk of breaking in turning. (This rule applies to all frying, except pancakes, sausages, bacon, etc.) The fat must be almost, but not quite, boiling. To test it, throw in a small piece of bread ; if it browns immediately, the fat is ready. Never fry more than two or three things at once, or the heat will be lowered too much. Place whatever is fried on a hot dish with soft paper, and also cover the articles with soft paper to absorb the fat. Oysters. Oysters are most digestible when eaten raw. They should be served directly they are opened, and thin slices of brown bread and butter and cut lemons should be served with them. N.B.—Stout or water are the best liquids to be taken when eating oysters. Anything of a strong alcoholic nature, such as brandy or whisky, hardens the oyster, and in consequence renders it more or less indigestible. Oysters a la Blanche. 6 oysters. A little butter. Fine breadcrumbs. Lemon. Cayenne. Take six oysters ; remove the beards. Place them in a small flat dish; sprinkle with a very little cayenne pepper and a little grated lemon-peel, or a few drops of essence of lemon. Then strain the22 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY liquor of the oysters over them, and cover them with fine breadcrumbs. Above these place a few bits of butter, and brown in a Dutch oven. When the crumbs are brown, the oysters are sufficiently cooked. This is a useful dish for invalids who dislike raw oysters. Stewed Oysters. 12 oysters. J oz. butter, i small lemon. £ teaspoonful flour, i small blade mace. i gill milk or cream. £ teaspoonful grated nutmeg. i yolk of egg. Pepper and salt to taste. Put the oysters and the liquor that is with them into a small saucepan, and bring them to the boil (this is to blanch them) ; then take out the oysters and strain the liquor. Take off the beards, and put the liquor and beards in a saucepan with the mace, nutmeg, one small piece of lemon-peel, pepper and salt; boil for fifteen minutes, and then strain. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, mix quite smoothly, and add by degrees the strained liquor; boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Then add the yolk of egg, well beaten, the milk or cream, and a few drops of lemon-juice ; put in the oysters, make them quite hot in the sauce. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. Broiled Oysters. Place the oysters unopened on a gridiron ; as soon as they are quite open they are done—generally in about five or seven minutes. Just before serving (in both shells) place in each a small piece of butter mixed with pepper and salt, or cayenne.23 STEAMED WHITING, PLAICE OR SOLE Steamed Whiting, Plaice or Sole. Lemon-juice. Salt to taste. Fillets of fish. £ oz. butter. Fillet the fish, butter two plates, place the fillets on one of them, sprinkle over the salt and lemon-juice (if the invalid is allowed to take it), cover with the other plate, and stand both over a saucepan of boil- ing water to steam from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fillets. Any white fish can be steamed in this way. Whiting baked in Milk. 1 whiting or small haddock J oz. butter. 1 pint milk. i oz- flour 2 r Salt to taste. Place the fish in a small pie-dish with the salt, pour over it the milk, cover closely, and bake in a slow oven about twenty minutes ; when the flesh leaves the bone easily it is done. Then place the fish in a hot dish, knead the butter and flour together in a basin, add to them the milk in which the fish has been cooked; pour into a saucepan and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Serve hot. Fish Pudding. 3 tablespoonfuls cold boiled fish. I J pint milk. 2 eggs. I Pepper and salt to taste. Remove carefully all bones and skin, break the fish into small pieces, add to it the pepper and salt; beat the eggs well, add to them the milk and fish, mix thoroughly. Steam in buttered mould or basin for half an hour.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY -•4 Fish Croquettes $ lb. cooked fish, broken small, i oz. butter. \ pint milk. 1 oz. flour. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. A little mace. Pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, mix smoothly, add by degrees the milk, stir until it boils and thickens; then add the fish, seasoning, and cream ; mix well. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and allow it to get quite cold before shaping it into croquettes. Cover them with egg and breadcrumbs, place in a frying-basket, and fry a light brown. Fish Cakes. \ lb. cooked fish. J lb. cooked potatoes. i oz. butter. i tablespoonful milk. 2 eggs. \ teaspoonful anchovy, if liked. Breadcrumbs. Pepper and salt to taste. Remove any skin and bones from the fish whilst warm, shred it finely with two forks. Pass the potatoes (warm) through a sieve, warm the milk, melt the butter in it, add to them, and mix with one egg well beaten, pepper and salt to taste, and anchovy; mix well. Shape the mixture into small round, flat cakes about one inch thick, cover with egg and bread- crumbs. Fry in sufficient hot fat to cover them four or five minutes; drain well and serve with fried parsley. Fish Custard. \ lb. cold fish, any kind, after re moving all skin and bone. 2 yolks and i white of egg. \ pint milk. i oz. butter. i teaspoonful chopped parsley, if liked. Pepper and salt to taste. Break the fish into rather large pieces, season it with pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs well;FISH TOAST—FILLETED FISH—INVALID FISH 25 add to them the milk. Butter thickly some small moulds or teacups; sprinkle, if liked, with the parsley. Fill the moulds three parts with the fish, and fill up with custard. Cover each with buttered paper, and steam very slowly till set. When done, allow them to stand for two minutes before serving on a hot dish. Fish Toast. ^ lb. cold boiled white fish. 1 oz. breadcrumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. A little nutmeg and mace. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, if liked. Pepper and salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish; mix it with the breadcrumbs and seasoning; add the eggs and milk beaten together, and the butter. Simmer five minutes, and serve piled high on rounds of toast. Filleted Fish. Fillets of white fish. Butter a sheet of paper, place it in the baking-tin ; place on it small fillets of white fish, cover them with another buttered paper ; bake in the oven for ten minutes. Serve with sauce (see Fish Sauce). Invalid Fish. 1 small sole, filleted. Yolks of 2 eggs. ^ gill cold water. Pepper and salt. Simmer the fish in water till tender, then place it on a hot dish ; stir the yolks into the liquor, and place over the fire till it thickens. Pour over the fish, and serve at once.26 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Fried Fillets of Sole. i sole. i egg. Breadcrumbs. Flour. Parsley. Frying fat. Remove the dark skin and fillet the sole; a moderate-sized sole will make four large or eight small fillets. Wash, dry, and rub them with a little flour ; cover them well with egg and breadcrumbs. Fry in smoking-hot fat, sufficient to cover them, for ten minutes, unless the fillets are very thick. Drain well on soft paper ; decorate with fried parsley. If liked, the fillets can be saturated in lemon-juice for half an hour, and then well dried before covering with the egg and crumbs. Filleted Sole aux Crevettes. i large sole, filleted. i gill of shrimps (picked and pounded). Pepper and salt to taste. A little butter. Divide the sole into eight fillets; dry them well; sprinkle them with pepper and salt; cover with the pounded shrimps. Roll each fillet up, and put side by side in a pie-dish. Put a small piece of butter on each, and, if liked, a squeeze of lemon-juice; cover with buttered paper or a dish. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve with fish-sauce (No. 2) poured over. Garnish with finely- chopped parsley and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Sole stewed in Milk. 1 sole. Salt. New milk. Carefully lift the fillets from a very fresh sole, roll each piece of fish, and fasten with white tape. Lay27 FISH CREAM-POTTED SOLE OR PLAICE the fillets in a perfectly clean stewpan, and cover them with new milk, season with a little salt, and simmer very gently till tender. Fish Cream. 6 oz. raw fish, i slice bread. Pepper and 4 eggs. i teacupful cream, salt to taste. Take six ounces of raw fish, and pass it through a wire sieve. Cut a slice of bread one inch thick, and soak it in boiling water. Wring the bread out with a clean towel as dry as possible, add this to the fish with a teacupful of cream. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Mix all quickly ; lastly, add the whites of four eggs, stiffly beaten. Put in a mould and steam it, with buttered paper on the top, for half an hour. Serve with sauce made from yolks of eggs and the water in which the fins have been boiled. Potted Sole or Plaice. 1 sole or plaice (a lemon sole will do). 2 oz. butter. Nutmeg, ground mace, anchovy, cayenne and salt to taste. Fillet the fish, rub it with a little salt, steam it for ten or fifteen minutes ; remove any skin, and pound it in a mortar with one ounce of the butter ; nutmeg, mace, anchovy, cayenne, and salt, to taste. When quite smooth press into pots, melt the other ounce of butter, and pour over, covering well. Any kind of cold boiled fish can be potted in this way. If liked, the anchovy can be omitted. This makes nice sandwiches, and is greatly relished by most invalids.28 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Stewed Cod or Hake. i lb. cod or hake. i tablespoonful vinegar. i oz. butter. i tablespoonful parsley. 1 egg. 4 peppercorns. J pint hot water. i tablespoonful flour. Salt. Prepare the fish, cut it into slices not too thin, put it into a stewpan with the hot water, vinegar, salt, and peppercorns. Simmer very quietly about fifteen minutes, taking great care the slices do not break, then lift them out carefully and keep hot. Mix the butter and flour to a smooth paste, stir into it by degrees the water in which the fish has been cooked, pour it into a small saucepan, and stir until it boils and thickens. Then add the parsley, finely chopped, and the egg, well beaten ; season to taste, and pour over the fish. If liked, the egg can be boiled hard, the white cut into small dice before adding to the sauce, and the yolk be rubbed through a sieve or strainer on to the fish after it is covered with the sauce. This way looks much prettier, but it is not suitable for invalids, as the albumen in the white of the egg becomes indigestible by boiling hard. Wash the fish thoroughly, and remove the scales. Cut it into pieces, and put it into a very clean white-lined saucepan with the cold water and salt. Let it come to the boil with the lid off, and skim Fish Soup. i haddock, medium size, i pint cold water, i small potato, i oz. butter. 2 leeks, i gill milk. i teaspoonful cornflour. J teaspoonful salt. \ teaspoonful pepper.29 MEAT, POULTRY, ETC. thoroughly. Parboil the potato and white part of the leeks, thinly sliced. Boil up once, skim we 1, and cover with the lid; let the soup simmer slowly for one hour. Pass the fish, etc., through a sieve, and return the soup to the pan. Mix the corn- flour with the milk, pour into the pan, stir until boiling, and serve very hot. At the end, half a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice and one tablespoonful of parsley, to vary the flavour, may be added. MEAT, POULTRY, ETC. The value of any kind of meat as food varies with the age and class of the animal, and also with the. joint. Lean meat contains larger proportions of flesh-forming material and more saline, or mineral, matter than fat meat; but almost all the flesh we use for food contains a certain proportion of fat, which, indeed, is necessary for force-producing or heat-giving, and is also essential for the proper action of the digestive organs. (Flesh is more nutritious raw, but not so digestible as when well cooked.) Roast meat is more nutritious than the same weight of boiled meat, as more nutritive matter escapes during the process of boiling than roasting. The liquor in which mutton has been boiled ought never to be wasted, as it contains much valuable mineral and organic matter. Ox beef is the most highly nourishing and strengthening of animal foods; but wether mutton is the most digestible, and is therefore especially de-30 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY sirable for invalids and those with weak digestions.* Lamb is a light and wholesome food, but is less nutritious and more watery than mutton. Veal is also less nutritious than either beef or mutton, and more difficult to digest. The flesh of young animals does not contain nearly so much nutriment as those of a more mature age. The deficiency of fat in veal should be made good by serving bacon or ham with it, and also good beef gravy, the latter to supply the saline matter which veal has lost in being deprived of its blood to prepare it for market. Pork contains a much greater proportion of fat than beef or mutton, and owing to the close and compact nature of its muscular fibres it is one of the most difficult meats to digest. Pickled pork is more easily digested than fresh. Bacon contains less water and more mineral matter than pork, and the process of curing renders the fat less digestible, but there is great difference of opinion as to the digestibility of bacon; when boiled it is easier to digest than when frizzled. Tripe is nutritious and easily digested. Liver, heart, and kidney are nutritious; but, owing to their dense and firm texture, are not easily digested; they are highly nitrogenous articles of food. They should be served with bacon, except the heart, which contains some fat. It should be noted, however, that, unless kidneys and liver are well cooked, there is a danger of tubercular disease, as phthisis in the * As a rule German doctors do not allow red meat for rheumatic patients ; no beef, and only mutton that is well cooked, and does not contain any red gravy.ROASTING OR BAKING MEAT 31 lower animals, especially in sheep, is found generally in the kidneys and liver, and they therefore require to be cooked long enough for the heat to penetrate to the interior and destroy the microbes. In a fresh tongue the fibres of the flesh are small and delicate, and if slowly cooked are very digestible (see recipe), but pickling hardens the fibres. The flesh of birds contains very little fat; this deficiency therefore must be made up : in roasting by the use of butter or lard, and in boiling by serving melted butter or bacon with them. The flesh of fowls, pheasant, partridge, turkey, pigeon, guinea-hen, etc., is nutritious and easily digested. Those birds whose flesh contains some fat, and whose muscular fibre is closer—such as geese, ducks, teal, etc.—are far more difficult to digest. Rabbits are a light food, and more digestible than hares, but not so nutritious; in both these cases the want of fat should be supplied by serving with bacon or pickled pork. Roasting or Baking Meat. Our first care in roasting or baking a joint of meat must be to form a coating of solidified albumen on the outside of it; this is to seal up and keep in the nutritious juices, and so prevent as far as possible their escape, and the consequent loss of nourish- ment. To do this we must give the joint great heat on all sides for the first ten minutes; then the albumen on the outside will be coagulated by the heat, and form a crust or coating. But if this great heat wereTHE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY 32 continued, the albumen throughout the joint would solidify, and render it tough and indigestible, and therefore after the first ten minutes it should be cooked very slowly to slightly harden the inner albumen, and so make the meat firm enough to be cut into slices. Spreading the lean part with dripping, and dredging it with flour, also forms a coating, and helps to keep in the gravy. For beef or mutton allow fifteen minutes to every pound, and fifteen minutes over; for pork, veal, or lamb, twenty minutes, and twenty minutes over. The browned outside of the joint is difficult to digest, and should not be given to invalids or those with weak digestions. The inner slices are lighter and more easily digested, but underdone meat is not, as is commonly supposed, more nutritious. The common plan of sprinkling salt on the joint after it is placed in the dish, and then pouring hot water over it, cannot be too strongly condemned; the salt draws the gravy from the meat, and renders the latter dry and indigestible, and the water soddens it. Gravy should always be poured round, and not over, a roast joint. A good way to make gravy for roast meat is, after placing the joint on a hot dish, and pouring off every particle of dripping from the dripping-pan (this should be sprinkled with flour before com- mencing to roast), to pour into it about a gill of boiling stock, scraping off the brown particles which adhere to the pan ; they will both colour and flavour the gravy.BOILING MEAT 33 Boiling Meat. In the notes on soup, etc., we endeavoured to show that if we wish to extract the nutriment from meat we must put it into cold water; but in boiling a joint for the table our object must be to retain, as in roasting, the valuable red juices by hardening the outside albumen, and so forming a crust or coating. To do this, the joint must first be plunged into boiling water, and allowed to boil for five minutes, removing the scum as it rises, or it will boil down and dis- colour the meat. Then add a large cupful of cold water to reduce the heat, and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire where the water will only simmer, the heat never being allowed to exceed 170° Fahr. during the whole time of cooking. Allow twenty minutes to every pound, and twenty minutes over; this is five minutes a pound longer than for roast- ing, owing to the low temperature of the water. If necessary, the joint should be tied round with string, and not fastened with skewers, the latter making holes through which the juices would escape; the meat would thus become dry and less nutritious. Meat, with the exception of heart and liver, should not be washed, as the water takes out some of the nutriment. If the meat is not quite fresh, it can be wiped with a cloth dipped into vinegar and water. Vegetables, if liked, can be cooked with the meat. Gravies or sauces should always be poured over boiled meat. As these notes are intended for cookery for invalids 3THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY or convalescents, it has not been thought necessary to enter into the subject of boiling salt meats. Broiling or Grilling. This has nearly the same effect on meat as roast- ing ; the outer albumen is hardened, forming a skin or crust, and so retaining the juices. To do this perfectly, a bright clear fire is necessary, and the bars of the gridiron should be heated before the meat is placed on it, as the bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers. The meat should be put close to the fire for one minute, and then turned so as to prevent the escape of the juices on the side furthest from the fire. The meat will be much more tender, and full of gravy, if it is turned frequently. A fork should not be used in turning, as it would make holes and let the gravy escape: use either the tongs sold for the purpose, or a knife and spoon. Meat broiled over the fire has a better flavour than that broiled in front of it. To broil meat well is one of the best ways of preparing it for invalids ; it is then easy of digestion, as nearly all the juices are retained. Allow from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the chop or steak, which should be thick. Chickens, when broiled, are split in half. Fish is usually wrapped in buttered paper for broiling. Serve the chop or steak as quickly as possible on a very hot plate; put a little butter, pepper, and salt on each side (salt must never be put on before cooking, as it draws out the gravy). For a change, maUre d'hStel butter can be used. To make this,35 STEWING mix one teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley with half an- ounce of butter and a little salt and pepper. Spread on the chop or steak when on the plate ; just melt in the front of the fire, and serve quickly. Fried meat is, as a rule, hard because the extreme heat causes the albumen to become solid throughout, and so dries up the fibres, and prevents the gradual access of heat to the interior. It should, therefore, never be given to invalids or convalescents. Stewing. Stews are nutritious, being, as a rule, composed of various substances which contain all the elements of nutrition, and easily digested, because all solid food has to be liquefied before it can be digested, and they assist the action of the stomach in this particular. Stewing consists of cooking meat at a low tempera- ture for a long period in a small quantity of liquid. By the long continuous action of moderate heat, the fibres of the toughest meat are softened, and form a most nourishing dish, for any nutriment which may have escaped from the meat during cooking will be found in the gravy. If tough steak or sinewy meat, such as leg of beef, is used, it will be rendered much more tender by dipping the meat into vinegar after it is cut up; the acid helps to soften the fibres of the meat. This kind of meat must never be fried with the idea of browning the stew; the great heat of frying would only increase the toughness. A good brown gravy should be made, and poured boiling over the meat. It should then be cooked as slowly as possible either 3—236 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OE COOKERY in a stewpan, or a jar with a close-fitting lid in a slow oven. It must be remembered that the cooking of a stew cannot be hastened by raising the heat, which if raised to boiling-point would render the meat tough and indigestible. Pouring boiling stock or water over the meat instead of cold is to close the pores and to keep in the valuable juices. All suet puddings are much lighter steamed than boiled; in the latter the tightly-tied cloth prevents them rising to their full extent, whilst in the former method the greased paper rises with them. Breadcrumbs should always be added to the flour when suet is used, as they absorb much of the fat, and so render the pudding easier of digestion. Suet is a very heavy fat, and extremely difficult to digest unless well cooked, when it is a most valuable article of diet in phthisis and all wasting diseases, unless the digestive organs are very weak. Broiled Chop. The chop should be off the middle of the loin, and about three quarters of an inch thick. Trim off most of the fat. Make the gridiron quite hot; grease the bars with a piece of the fat or a little butter, and cook the chop from eight to ten minutes over a very clear fire, turning it every minute, to keep the gravy in and make it tender, with tongs or a knife and spoon. (If a fork were used, it would make holes, and allow the gravy to escape.) When done, place on a very hot plate, with a small piece of butter, and pepper andSTEAMED CHOP—STEWED CHOP 37 salt on both sides. (If the salt were put on before cook- ing, it would draw the gravy out.) Serve at once. If allowed, one teaspoonful finely-chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice can be mixed with the butter. Bread or apple sauce served with the chop makes a pleasant change, especially when potatoes cannot be allowed. Small mutton cutlets off the neck, covered with egg and breadcrumbs, and fried, are a pleasant change from broiled chops. Steamed Chop. 1 loin chop. 2 oz. rice. Pepper and salt. Cut all the fat off the chop, and put it into a basin with the rice, pepper, and salt, and enough water to nearly cover it. Cover with a saucer, and steam for two hours. Stewed Chop. i chump chop. Pepper, salt and flour. Enough boiling water to just float the chop. Trim off all, or nearly all, fat from the chop ; flour it well on both sides; put it into a small saucepan, and pour over it enough boiling water to float it, but not to cover it, and add the salt and pepper. Simmer very gently one and a half hours, turning the chop over when half done, and skimming frequently. When serving, skim off all fat from the gravy, and pour it over the chop. Decorate with a few sprigs of parsley.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Stewed Chop and Rice. 1 chump chop. 2 oz. rice. Pepper and salt. i bunch of parsley or sweet herbs. £ pint boiling water. Trim the chop ; put it into a small saucepan, with the pepper and salt, and the parsley and herbs tied in a bunch, so that they can be easily lifted out when dishing. Pour over the boiling water, add the rice well washed and picked over. Simmer very gently one and a half hours, taking great care the rice does not stick and burn, and adding more water if neces- sary ; but the stew should be quite thick with rice when done. For serving, put the chop on a hot dish, take out the parsley or herbs, and pour the rice and gravy round. This is a most nourishing dish for an invalid, any nutriment that comes from the chop being mixed with the rice and gravy. Pepper in any of these recipes can be omitted, if not allowed. Baked Sweetbreads. S lambs' sweetbreads. 2 oz. butter „„„ Breadcrumbs. Trim the sweetbreads, and soak them in cold water for three hours; then put them into boiling water or stock, and simmer gently for half an hour. Drain them until dry ; cover with egg and crumbs. Place them on a tin, pour over them the butter (melted), and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, basting frequently. If the sweetbreads are small, half an hour will be sufficient. Serve garnished with cut lemon.39 MINCED MEAT—INVALID STEW Minced Meat, Game, or Poultry. (where mastication is a difficulty.) Remove all fat, skin, etc., from a quarter of a pound of raw beef, mutton, game, or poultry; mince very finely, and sprinkle over it a little salt, and (if allowed) pepper. Put it in a jar, cover closely ; stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and keep the water simmering. When the meat is perfectly hot through it is done. Serve piled up on small rounds of toast. Invalid Stew. J lb. steak, or, if liked, i chump chop. If the latter, leave out the vinegar. i tablespoonful vinegar, i onion, if liked. Pepper and salt. Trim off all, or nearly all, the fat; dip the steak into the vinegar on both sides. If the onion is used, scald it and cut it into rings. Put the meat, onion, pepper, and salt in a jar, covered closely; stand in a saucepan of water, keep the water simmering for about one and a half or two hours, or until the meat is tender. Rabbit stewed in Milk. i very young rabbit, i pint milk, i blade mace, i small onion. A oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour. A very little nutmeg, pepper and salt. Prepare the rabbit, cut it into joints. Put the milk into a stewpan with the salt, mace, and onion, if liked. When it boils, put in the rabbit. Simmer very gently about one and a half hours, or until the rabbit is tender. Then place the rabbit on a hot dish. Thicken the milk by adding to it the butterTHE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY 4u and flour mixed smoothly together ; stir until it boils and thickens; add the pepper, and more salt if required, and strain over the rabbit. Mutton and Oyster, or Mushroom, Pudding. lb. best end of loin or neck of ; 2 oz. breadcrumbs. mutton. 1 dozen oysters or mushrooms. J teaspoonful baking-powder. J lb. suet. 6 oz. flour. Seasoning: 1 tablespoonful flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. J teaspoonful pepper. A little salt and cold water. Cut off all the meat from the bones, and put them into a saucepan with half a pint cold water and a little salt; boil until reduced to half. Cut the lean part of the meat into strips ; roll them up. Mix the seasoning on a plate, and dip the rolls into it; place them in a pie-dish, and pour over them the boiling stock made from the bones ; let them stand to cool whilst making the crust. Prepare the crust, and cut off one third for the cover; roll out the remainder, and line a well-greased pint basin with it. Beard the oysters and cut away the hard white part, or remove the stalks and peel the mushrooms (if the latter are used, let the stalks boil with the bones). Place the rolls of meat and oysters, or mushrooms, in layers in the basin ; pour over the stock in which the meat has been standing, wet the edges of the parts, put on the cover, press the edges firmly over, cover with a greased paper, and steam from three to four hours. Serve in the basin with a napkin folded round. Game, chicken, rabbit, or steak and kidney, can be used instead. If chicken or rabbit, add half a pound of bacon or ham.GAME SCALLOPS-FOWL WITH CHEESE 41 If the meat is rolled for puddings or pies, it will be much more tender, as the juice is retained in the meat. Game Scallops. Remains of any cold game._ 2 teaspoonfuls red-currant jelly. 1 pint cold water. 1 wineglass port wine. A little nutmeg. Salt and pepper to taste. Remove all the meat from the bones ; chop them and put them into a stewpan with the cold water, and simmer for one hour. Then strain off the stock, which should be reduced to half; add to it the red- currant jelly, wine, salt and pepper, and nutmeg, and the game finely minced. Butter some tin scallop shells, fill them with the mixture, cover with browned breadcrumbs, and bake for ten minutes or until quite hot. Fowl with Cheese. A young chicken. 1 wineglassful white wine. 1 wineglassful stock. 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A bunch of mixed herbs. Pepper and salt. Truss and flatten a young chicken, and slightly cook it in two ounces of butter; moisten it with a wine- glassful of white wine and the same quantity of stock ; add a bunch of mixed herbs, salt and pepper, and cook for an hour over a very slow fire, never letting it boil. Take the chicken out of the pan, and thicken the sauce with one ounce of butter worked up with one ounce of flour. Take the hot dish on which the chicken is to be served, and pour on it a portion of the sauce, and mix with it a good tablespoonful of grated cheese. Dish up the chicken, and pour over'42 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY it the remainder of the sauce, into which put the same quantity of grated cheese. Then put in the oven till slightly browned and the sauce absorbed. Pigeon stewed in Milk. i young pigeon. i cupful white stock, i cupful milk. A few oysters. Salt and pepper. Pluck, draw, and singe a young bird, and having trussed it in the usual manner, lay it in a stewpan, with a cupful of delicate white stock and the same quantity of milk, and salt and pepper to taste. All fat must be carefully removed. Simmer the bird for half an hour, lay it on a dish, strain and thicken the sauce, and, if allowed, add a few oysters and the strained liquor. Pour the sauce over the bird, and serve very hot. Stewed Chicken and Rice. i chicken, i oz. butter. Salt and pepper. J lb. rice, i blade mace. 6 peppercorns. Wash the rice; put it in a stewpan with the chicken trussed as for boiling, a little salt, mace and peppercorns, butter, and enough white stock or water to just cover the chicken. Put the lid on closely, and simmer very gently from one and a half to two hours, or until both chicken and rice are quite tender, taking care to prevent the rice burning. When done, place the chicken on a hot dish, remove the mace and peppercorns from the rice, add pepper and salt to taste, and pour round the chicken. If liked, one egg well beaten, or one tablespoonful of 'cream, can be added to the rice just before serving.STEWED CALF'S BRAINS-MUTTON PIE 43 Stewed Calf's Brains. i set calf's brains, i gill white stock or water, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful flour. 1 small onion. 2 sprigs parsley. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Lemon-juice. Salt and' pepper. Skin, clean and blanch the brains, then cut them into four pieces. Put them into a stewpan with the stock (boiling), the two sprigs of parsley, and the onion. Simmer very gently from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Then take out the brains, strain the stock, return it to the stewpan, add to it the butter and flour mixed smoothly together, and stir and boil for five minutes. Then add the brains, lemon-juice, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer for five minutes; add the cream. Place the brains on a hot dish ; pour the sauce over them. Mutton Pie. i chump chop. J teaspoonful sweet herbs. A little hot stock or water. ^ lb. cooked potatoes. | oz. butter, i tablespoonful milk. Pepper and salt to taste. Trim off the fat from the chop; cut it into neat pieces, place them in a small pie-dish, and sprinkle over them the powdered herbs; pepper and salt to taste. Pour over enough hot stock or water to half fill the dish. Put the potatoes through a masher or sieve. Warm the milk, dissolve the butter in it, add to the potatoes, and beat with a wooden spoon until very light and white. Pile roughly as high as possible over the meat, and bake for about one hour. The potatoes should be lightly browned. Pastry could be used instead of potatoes, but would not be so suitable for convalescents.44 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Stewed Lamb, or Veal, and Peas. i lb. neck of lamb or breast of I i very small onion. veal. The white part of a small lettuce, i pint shelled green peas. 3 sprigs fresh mint (or parsley if 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. veal). £ pint white stock or water. Pepper and salt to taste. Divide the neck of lamb into chops, or the breast of veal into neat pieces ; flour them well on both sides. Scald the onion, chop it very finely, and also the white leaves of the lettuce. Tie the sprigs of fresh mint or parsley together that they may be easily lifted out when serving. Put all into a stew- pan with the sugar and a little salt and pepper; pour over the boiling white stock or water. Skim well, and simmer very gently about one hour. Then add the shelled young green peas, and simmer about half an hour longer, or until the peas are tender. For serving, place the meat in a very hot dish, remove the mint or parsley, arrange the peas round the meat, and pour the gravy over. Tripe stewed in Milk. J lb. tripe. J pint milk. Salt and pepper. 2 onions, if liked. § oz. butter. 1 dessertspoonful flour. Blanch the tripe by putting it in a saucepan, covering it with cold water, and letting it boil up ; then strain away the water, scrape the tripe, and cut it into pieces about two inches square. Return the tripe to the saucepan, with the milk just hot, and the onions (if used) scalded and parboiled, and cut finely. Simmer very gently about one and a half hours, or until very tender; then put it on a hotBOILED CALF'S HEAD 45 dish. Rub the butter and flour together, mix smoothly with a little cold milk; pour this into the milk in which the tripe has been cooked, and stir until it boils. Season to taste, and pour over the tripe. Strain out the onions if the patient prefers a smooth sauce. Boiled Calf's Head. Half a calf's head. Lemon-juice. Salt and pepper. 2 oz. butter. i£ oz. flour. i tablespoonful chopped parsley. Thoroughly cleanse, and wash the head in hot water and salt. Take out the brains. Rub the head over with lemon-juice, and put it into a sauce- pan with boiling water and a little salt. Let it boil up, removing carefully all the scum. Simmer very gently for from two to two and a half hours, or for three if the head is very large. Wash the brains thoroughly in salt and water, removing all the blood. Put them into a small saucepan with boiling water, a little salt and lemon-juice. Remove the scum, and simmer for fifteen minutes; then drain them and chop them finely. Rub the butter and flour together, add to them by degrees half a pint of the liquor in which the head is cooking, pour into a small saucepan, and stir till it boils. Then add the parsley finely chopped, the brains, and one tea- spoonful of lemon-juice ; pepper and salt to taste. Place the head on a hot dish with the cheek upward; take out the tongue, skin it, and cut it in slices. Cover the head with browned breadcrumbs ; garnish the dish with slices of lemon and slices of the tongue. Serve the sauce in a sauce-boat, or, if46 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY liked, pour it over the head instead of the browned breadcrumbs. Serve boiled bacon with the head. Stewed Ptarmigan. i ptarmigan. i gill good gravy, i small bunch of herbs. £ gill sherry. £ oz. butter. Lemon-juice, i teaspoonful flour. Salt and pepper. Truss the birds as for roasting. Put the gravy in a stewpan ; when hot, add the birds, lemon-juice, and herbs. Stew very gently from half to three- quarters of an hour, basting frequently with the gravy. Rub the butter and flour together in a basin ; add the pepper and salt. Place the ptarmigan in a hot dish; add the flour, etc., to the gravy; stir until it boils, then strain over the bird. Roast Guinea-fowl. Truss as for roasting; stuff with forcemeat as for veal if liked. Tie a piece of fat bacon over the breast, and roast about one hour, basting frequently. Just before serving, take off the bacon ; dredge the breast with flour, and brown. Serve with brown gravy and bread sauce. Roast Pheasants. Roast as above, cooking about forty-five minutes. Roast Partridges. Roast as above, cooking about twenty-five minutes. Roast Pigeons. Roast as above, cooking about fifteen to twenty minutes, basting well.BRAIN CUTLETS—CHICKEN MOULD 47 Brain Cutlets. Soak the brains in tepid water, with salt in it. Skin, and thoroughly cleanse in plenty of water to harden and whiten them. Drain on a colander; when cold, mould into oval cutlets, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry a light brown in plenty of good boiling lard. Drain and serve with tomato sauce round, or white sauce. Chicken Mould. A large chicken, i quart cold water. Pepper and salt. Take a large chicken, skin it and put it into a saucepan with one quart of cold water, and boil it the usual time. Take it up, and cut pieces from the breast and legs ; then put back the bones, etc., into the saucepan, and boil till the water is reduced to a pint. Then strain it, and add to the liquor the pieces of chicken cut off, minced finely, and pepper and salt to taste. Let it stand until cold and a firm jelly. Then turn out, and serve as a relish for breakfast or luncheon. Ox Palates, stewed (i). 2 ox palates. 3 oz. macaroni. i pint good stock or veal broth. Pepper and salt to taste. Put the palates into enough hot water to cover them ; boil gently about two hours, or until the skin is tender and can easily be removed. Then lay them on a drainer; when cool, cut them across obliquely into strips a quarter of an inch in width. Put themPepper and salt to taste. 48 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY into a stewpan with one pint of well-flavoured stock or veal broth, and simmer for two hours, or until per- fectly tender. Break the macaroni into small pieces, drop it into boiling water and a little salt; boil for one hour, then strain. Add the macaroni to the stew half an hour before serving. Season to taste. Wash the palates and put them into a stewpan, with hot water to cover them; boil gently, until the skin is tender and can easily be removed. Then skin the palates, and cut them into six pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, and when quite hot add the vegetables, prepared and cut into small pieces ; fry a nice brown. Then add the stock, herbs, cloves, curry-powder, vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper. When it boils, put in the palates ; simmer very gently for four hours, or until they are quite tender. Then take out the palates, skim off every particle of fat, thicken the gravy with one table- spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water; stir until it boils, and add one wineglassful of port wine. Strain over the palates on the dish, and serve at once. Ox palates well cooked in this way are easily digested, and much relished by convalescents. Ox Palates, stewed (2). 2 palates 1 onion. 3 cloves. 2 oz. butter or good dripping. 1 carrot. ^ teaspoonful mixed herbs. 1 saltspoonful sugar. 1 saltspoonful curry-powder. 1 pint good stock. 1 iablespoonful vinegar.CHICKEN CREAM-FRICASSEE OF COLD CHICKEN 49 Chicken Cream. Take the breast of a raw fowl, pound it in a mortar and pass it through a sieve. Add to it a well-beaten egg, pepper and salt to taste, and a dust of ground mace and nutmeg; then add gradually sufficient cream to make a rather moist mixture. Butter a border mould, pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam carefully half an hour. Dish with peas, French beans, or tomatoes, in the centre. Instead of a fowl, this shape can be made with one pound of fillet steak, using stock instead of cream, and serving it with a good brown gravy round it. Fricassee of Cold Chicken. 4 tablespoonfuls cold boiled i gill milk. chicken. i giU chicken broth. 2 oz. butter. A few drops of lemon-juice, i oz. flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Cut the meat off a cold boiled chicken into small dice, removing all skin. Rub the butter and flour together to a smooth paste; add by degrees the milk and broth (warmed). Pour into a stewpan ; stir until it boils and thickens. Add the lemon-juice, pepper, and salt; put in the chicken meat; let it remain until quite hot, but it must not cook. Serve with sippets of toast and slices of lemon. Ox Tongue, larded and roasted. i fresh tongue. i onion stuck with 3 cloves 4 slices streaky bacon. Bacon for larding. 1 full bouquet of herbs. Parsley and shallot. 1 pint very good stock. Pepper and salt. Put the stock, bacon, full bouquet, onion with cloves, pepper and salt, into a saucepan, and when 4THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY boiling put in the tongue, and put on the lid with a weight on it. Simmer very gently for three or four hours, then take out the tongue and let it get cold ; pass the gravy through a sieve. All this can be done the day before it is required. When cold, lard the tongue (which should be skinned when taken off the fire), with large lardoons rolled over parsley, and one shallot very finely chopped up, and a soupcon of nutmeg; then roast it one hour, basting it with the gravy in which it was stewed. When done, serve it with a sauce piquante. This recipe can be simplified by omitting the larding and roasting with a piece of bacon skewered round the tongue. Ox Tongue, boiled. 1 fresh tongue. 2 bouquets of herbs. Tomato sauce. Onions. Carrots. Trim the root of a fresh tongue, and soak it for an hour in cold water. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of cold water ; add a good-sized onion with two cloves and two bouquets garni, one ounce of salt, and half an ounce of pepper. Bring it to the boil, skim, and simmer for three hours; when cooked, take off the skin, arrange the tongue on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce or sauce piquante. The tongue must not remain in the liquor after it is cooked. VEGETABLES. The various fresh green vegetables are valuable articles of food, chiefly because of the important inorganic salts they contain, especially potash. TheyVEGETABLES 5l also contain a large amount of water, often as much as 90 per cent., but the nitrogenous substance is very small. The digestibility, and therefore greater value as food, of many vegetables is largely increased by cultivation. .Spinach, when freed from grit, properly cooked, and rubbed through a sieve, is very whole- some, and as it acts as an aperient, is frequently ordered for constipation. Cauliflowers are most digestible and delicate, also seakale. Onions are used as a condiment as well as a vegetable, and contain a large amount of albumenoid matter; they are slightly laxative, and frequently ordered in kidney complaints. If onions are parboiled or scalded before being cooked, they lose a great deal of their strong oil, and so are much more easily digested. Tomatoes are refreshing and wholesome, but, on account of their containing oxalic acid, are seldom allowed where there is a tendency to gout or rheumatism. Vegetable-marrows are of little value as food, owing to the large quantity of water they con- tain, but are light and easily digested. Steaming is the best mode of cooking them, because their full flavour is retained, and no foreign water introduced. Asparagus is easy of digestion, and is thought by some medical men to act as a sedative in cardiac palpitations. Cabbages, brussels sprouts, greens, etc., contain a large amount of sulphur, and therefore cause flatulence to some people. The best way to free these vegetables from insects is to put them into a large dry basin and pour boiling water over them ; this not only kills the insects (the old plan of soaking 4—252 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY in salt and water merely stupefied them), but makes the vegetables a better green colour ; then, with two spoons, lift them quickly into cold water, as, if allowed to remain in the boiling water, they would become flabby. Potatoes are the most important of the various roots used as food, but, as they contain a large amount of starch and water and a very small proportion of albumen, are greatly inferior to pulses and cereals in nutritive value. They contain scarcely any fat or nitrogenous substances, and require to be eaten with meat, fish, butter, or milk. They are best steamed or baked, to prevent the loss of salts; the latter is also the easiest way for digestion. If boiled, they should be always put into boiling water, never into col.i, to harden the outer ring of gluten, or vegetable albumen ; this prevents the water entering into the starch in the centre and making the potatoes watery and waxy, which would render them very difficult to digest. For people with weak digestive powers, potatoes should always be put through a potato- masher or fine sieve. Carrots, parsnips, and turnips contain a large pro- portion of water, and are not easy of digestion ; the last-named vegetable frequently causes flatulence. Beetroots contain more sugar, and are therefore more valuable as food. Jerusalem and green artichokes are of little value as food, and the former are less digestible than potatoes. Celery is wholesome, and more digestible if cooked than eaten raw; it is con- sidered by many to be a cure for rheumatism. Salad vegetables are not easy of digestion, but, notSTEWED BROAD BEANS 53 being cooked, lose none of their valuable mineral salts, and so are cooling and anti-scorbutic, lettuce and watercress partaking specially of the latter characteristic. Lettuce also contains a sedative principle which has a marked effect on some people. Stewed Broad Beans. i quart young broad beans, shelled. J pint stock, i eee. i gill milk or cream, i teaspoonful parsley. ^ teaspoonful sweet herbs. Pepper and salt to taste. Put the beans into boiling water, with a little salt and sugar; boil slowly until nearly tender. Then drain them, and put them into a stewpan with the hot stock, chopped parsley, and herbs. Stew until very tender (uncovered). Then add the egg, well beaten, with the cream or milk ; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil. Season with pepper and salt. Serve very hot. Stewed Mushrooms and Toasted Bacon. J lb. mushrooms. i gill good brown gravy. 4 rounds of toast. 4 small rashers bacon, j oz. butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Prepare the mushrooms, stew them very slowly in the gravy, butter, pepper and salt until tender (this will take about twenty minutes). Toast the rashers of bacon (do not fry them, as that would make them most indigestible) ; place each rasher on a neatly-cut piece of the toast; put the mushrooms on each, and pour the gravy round. Celery Fritters. Wash and trim the celery, cut it into neat pieces, and put it into cold water ; let it boil for five minutes54 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY to blanch it. Then put it in a stewpan, with enough boiling water to cover it, and a little salt; stew very gently until tender. Lift out the pieces, let them drain, and when quite cold put them into the batter; cover each piece well, and fry a golden brown. Onion Fritters. Peel and parboil as above two large Spanish onions ; then drain them and cut them into slices, taking care not to break the rings, about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay them on a buttered dish or baking-tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until tender. Then cover well with batter, fry a golden brown, drain well, and serve at once. Batter for Fritters. (EITHER vegetable or fruit.) 1 lb. flour. 2 whites of eggs. i oz. butter or 2 tablespoonfuls salad-oil. 1 gill tepid water. Melt the butter in the water, or, if oil is used, add it to the water; add them gradually to the flour ; mix into a perfectly smooth cream and beat well. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir lightly into the batter at the last moment, before putting in the vegetables or fruit. Haricot Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel. 1 pint haricot beans. 1 onion. 1 quart boiling water. Soak the beans in cold water for twelve hours, drain them, spread them on a dish, and let them 1 oz. dripping. 2 oz. butter. Pepper, salt, and parsley.HARICOT BEAN STEW-STEWED CELERY 55 dry for twenty-four hours if possible (see notes on beans). Then put them into a saucepan with the boiling water, dripping, and onion (scalded); cook slowly from three to four hours. When tender, drain them through a colander; return them to the saucepan with the butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, pepper and salt to taste; toss them about until they are quite hot, then serve at once. Haricot Bean Stew (Brown). i pint haricot beans. I oz. butter, i pint good brown stock or gravy. i oz. hour. Proceed as above until the beans are tender. Peel and scald the onions, cut them into rings, fry them in the butter a golden brown. Then stir in the flour, fry that also, and when brown pour in the gravy or stock. Stir until it boils. Add the beans, simmer very gently, to prevent breaking, for ten minutes, and serve. Stewed Celery (White). 2 heads of celery. I J oz. flour, i oz. butter. White stock or milk. Pepper and salt. Carefully wash and trim the celery. Put it into the stewpan with sufficient white stock or milk to cover it. Stew very gently till quite tender, from twenty to forty minutes. Then lift out the pieces; lay them in a hot vegetable-dish. Stir the butter and flour, rubbed smoothly together, into the stock or milk in which the celery has been stewed; con- tinue stirring until it boils and thickens, then pour over the celery.56 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OE COOKERY Broiled Tomatoes and Rice. Wipe the tomatoes, place them in a greased dish, with a small piece of butter on each, in front of a hot clear fire, from five to seven minutes. Serve on little heaps of boiled rice. Stewed Spanish Onions. Peel and scald the onions, and allow for each half an ounce of butter, one saltspoonful of castor sugar, and one tablespoonful of good gravy or stock. Place the onions in a stewpan with the gravy or stock ; put the butter and sugar on each. Simmer gently from two to three hours, basting frequently with the gravy. Serve very hot. Roast Spanish Onions. These can be roasted in the oven with their skins like potatoes, or peeled and put into a baking-tin with one ounce of butter for each. Bake from one and a half to two hours, basting frequently with the butter. Cauliflower au Gratin. i cauliflower. 2 oz. Parmesan cheese. £ oz. butter. r tablespoonful cream. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill water or milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Prepare and boil the cauliflower; when quite tender, drain it well, cut off all the green stalks, and put it in a hot vegetable-dish. While the cauliflower is cooking prepare the sauce. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir into it the flour, and mix quite smoothly, then add the water or milk by degrees ; stir until it boils and thickens. Then add to it halfSTEWED PEAS OR FRENCH BEANS 57 the cheese grated, the cream, pepper and salt. Pour over the cauliflower, scatter the remainder of the cheese over the top, place the dish under the gas or in front of a clear fire to melt and brown the cheese. Serve at once. Stewed Peas or French Beans. 1 lb. peas or beans. 2 oz. butter. Lemon-juice. Pepper and salt to taste. Shell the peas, or slice the beans; place them in a stewpan with the butter and lemon-juice (one table- spoonful), pepper and salt to taste. Stew until quite tender. Serve on toast, with, if liked, two tablespoonfuls of cream poured over them. Stewed Cabbage. i small white cabbage, i oz. butter. i teaspoonful cornflour, i gill milk or cream. Pepper and salt to taste. After preparing the cabbage, place it in a saucepan of boiling water with one teaspoonful of salt and another of moist sugar; boil, uncovered, for ten minutes. Then drain it well and shred it finely. Place it in a stewpan with the butter, pepper and salt, and half the milk. Stew until perfectly tender; just before serving, thicken with the cornflower mixed smoothly with the remainder of the milk. Serve on toast. Stewed Carrots. 6 young carrots. i gill water or stock. i oz. butter. i oz. flour. i teaspoonful sugar. Pepper and salt to taste. Scrape and wash the carrots; cut them into rounds. Put them into a stewpan with the boiling58 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY water or stock, sugar, and salt. Stew very gently until quite tender, shaking the pan frequently to prevent them sticking and burning. Ten minutes before serving add the butter and flour, mixed smoothly together; stir until it boils. Excellent served with roast beef or steaks. Stewed Cauliflower. i small cauliflower, i oz. butter. i gill white stock. J oz. flour. Pepper, salt, and lemon-juice to taste. Prepare the cauliflower ; put it into a saucepan of boiling water with one teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar; boil gently until nearly tender. Then place in a stewpan with the white stock ; simmer very slowly until quite tender, but not broken ; lift out carefully on to a hot dish. Rub the butter and flour smoothly together ; add to the stock. Stir until it boils and thickens ; season to taste with the lemon- juice, salt, and pepper. Pour over the cauliflower. Serve at once. Stewed Lettuces or Watercress. i lettuce or 2 bunches watercress. 1 gill good gravy. \ teaspoonful sugar. Pepper and salt to taste. Prepare the lettuce or watercress, removing the large stalks. Put into a saucepan of boiling water with half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar, and boil for ten minutes. Then strain off the water, shred the lettuce or chop the cress, put them into the gravy (boiling), and stew very gently until quite tender. Season with pepper and salt to taste.MASHED CARROTS AND TURNIPS 59 Mashed Carrots and Turnips, or Carrots and Parsnips. Prepare the carrots and turnips or parsnips; boil separately until quite tender; drain and press them well. Rub together through a sieve or colander; add a little butter, milk or cream, pepper and salt. Press into a hot mould or small basin ; turn out and serve. Where the convalescent can take root vege- tables, this is greatly liked with boiled mutton. The vegetables will be more wholesome if the water is changed during cooking. Mashed Vegetable-Marrow. i marrow, i oz. butter. i tablespoonful milk or cream. Salt and pepper. Peel the marrow, take out the seeds, cut into thick pieces. Place these in a steamer over boiling water, or in a pie-dish in the oven, with a very little butter ; sprinkle over some salt, cover closely, and cook until tender. Then rub through a sieve or colander, add the butter, cream or milk, salt and pepper to taste. Vegetable-marrows, whether served in slices with white sauce or mashed, have a far better flavour and are much more wholesome steamed or cooked in the oven, than boiled, as no foreign water is in- troduced, and thus they are far more easily digested. Stewed Red Cabbage. Cut up a firm, moderate-sized red cabbage as for pickling. Wash and drain it, and put it into a6o THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY stewpan with two ounces of butter and a little pepper and salt. Cover the pan closely, and stew for two hours. This is excellent served with game of all kinds. FARINACEOUS FOODS, ETC. Rice is chiefly a pure starch, and of little value as food taken by itself, on account of its poorness in nitrogenous, fatty, and mineral substances; but mixed with milk, eggs, and fat it becomes valuable. If cooked alone it should be steamed, so that none of the small amount of saline and nitrogenous matter it contains be lost in the water. Semolina, macaroni, and vermicelli are the richest in flesh-formers of all these foods; they are made from a hard and highly-nitrogenous yellow wheat grown chiefly in Italy. Semolina is the wheat coarsely ground. Maize, hominy, and oatmeal are also very nutritious ; the latter acts as a slight laxative with some people, and the coarse oatmeal often causes dyspepsia. Gruel, when made from the coarse, should be cooked slowly for quite one hour, and then strained; thus prepared it is highly nutritious for invalids. Tapioca, sago, and arrowroot are nearly pure starches. Cornflour is also a pure starch made from Indian corn by the removal of all the albumenoid and other substances. Starches are useless as food if taken alone; they require the addition of fatty and albumenoid substances to render them valuable. All uncooked starchy articles should be avoided, as starch in its uncooked, insoluble state is mostFARINACEOUS FOODS, ETC. 61 difficult, if not impossible, to digest. It is most important to urge children, and especially invalids, to eat all starchy foods, such as potatoes, bread, rice, etc., very slowly, and to masticate them well, for the perfect digestion of food that contains starch depends much on the action of the saliva of the mouth, with which it is mixed during mastication. There are patients who have the greatest difficulty in digesting starch at all; in these cases the addition of malt (either in powder or extract) to the farinaceous foods, such as milk pudding, etc., is very useful, because of the diastase and the action which that principle has in converting starch into dextrine and sugar, and also on account of the nutritive properties of the malt itself. The malt powder, or extract, should be added just before serving; if added while the temperature is too high it is of no use, as the activity of diastase is lost by heat. Dried Peas, Beans, and Lentils. These are richer than all farinaceous foods in nitrogenous substances, and very valuable, especially lentils, which are also rich in iron. Haricots rank next in value as food. Dried peas contain less fatty and nitrogenous matter than lentils and haricot beans. They require good cooking to render them digestible, and even then do not agree with all persons. The skins or shells are highly indigestible. All dried beans, peas, or lentils should before cooking be soaked in cold water overnight, then strained, spread on a dish, and allowed to dry for a day or two. During the drying the process of digestion is62 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY commenced by a change which takes place in the starch, converting it into sugar. A little butter in the water also helps to soften them whilst cooking. If they are to be cooked for soup or stews, put them into cold water to extract the nutriment, but if for vegetables into boiling water. Milk, Eggs, Butter, Cheese. Milk is a perfect food, not only containing all that is necessary to sustain life in the young, but doing so in the right proportions. For adults it requires to be mixed with other foods to obtain the right amount of nourishment. Milk is best heated slowly; if allowed to boil fast, the albumen hardens and be- comes indigestible. It also burns very quickly if the saucepan is not perfectly clean. One of the simplest and best ways of heating milk is to place it in a jug standing in a saucepan of cold water, which should be allowed to come to the boil very slowly. The milk should be stirred occasionally to prevent the albumen forming a skin on the top. Milk heated in this way is rich and creamy. Skimmed milk is generally more easily digested than unskimmed, as it is less rich. Clotted or Devonshire cream is richer and less digestible than fluid cream. Whey is often found very useful as a drink in some diseases where milk cannot be digested, although it is not very nutritious. Buttermilk is a very nutritious fluid, and is very frequently ordered by German doctors on account of its digestibility. Butter is one of the most digestible, delicate, and agreeable in flavour of animal fats, andMILK, EGGS, BUTTER, CHEESE—FRUIT 63 is highly nourishing; but when rancid or cooked (as in pastry, cakes, sauces, hot buttered toast, etc.) it often proves exceedingly indigestible. Cheese contains large proportions of nitrogenous substances—tv/ice as much, weight for weight, as meat. The richer, softer kinds, if taken in modera- tion, have been proved not difficult to digest; indeed, some physicians advocate a small piece after dinner to help in digesting the other food by its stimulating action on the stomach. The poor, hard kinds of cheese contain a large proportion of caseine, and are therefore difficult to digest. Eggs are almost a perfect food, only wanting in mineral salts, which are found chiefly in the shell. They are a highly-nutritious food in a concentrated form. If taken raw or lightly cooked, they are easily digested, but boiled hard or fried, are most difficult to digest. Poaching or steaming (see recipes) are the two lightest modes of cooking eggs. Many people who for years have been unable to digest eggs boiled in the usual manner, for three and a half minutes, can do so easily when they are served steamed. Owing to the gentle heat in steaming, the albumen (or white) never becomes hard or tough, but is softly solid. Fruit. Fruit contains very little nutritive matter, and, when fresh, much water, the latter making the juicy sorts very valuable in hot weather as substitutes for alcoholic drinks or doubtful water. The value of fruit is due to the anti-scorbutic and aperient pro-64 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY perties it possesses, caused by the action of the acid juices. The skins of fruit are very indigestible, and should never be eaten; irritation, and even fatal inflammation of the intestines, are caused by the tough skins of fruit. The health of children suffers greatly if deprived of fresh fruit. Apples, pears, and stone fruit should not be taken by persons of weak digestion, unless cooked. Dried fruits (figs, raisins, etc.) do not possess the beneficial action of fresh fruits, while nuts are very difficult of digestion. Steamed Egg. ! egg# 2 tablespoonfuls new milk or Salt and pepper. cream. A slice of buttered toast. Break an egg into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a dredge of pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls of new milk or cream. Whisk to a froth. Have ready a well- buttered small cup, pour in the mixture, and steam for ten minutes. Turn out on to a slice of buttered toast. To be eaten immediately. To poach an Egg for an Invalid. Butter slightly a teacup or small basin ; break the egg carefully into it, and stand the cup or basin in a saucepan, with sufficient boiling water to reach half way up it. Let the water simmer till the egg is set, then run a knife round the edge and turn carefully on to a small round of toast—buttered if allowed. A Light, Digestible Way of cooking an Egg. Place the egg in a saucepan of boiling water, closely covered ; remove at once from the fire andBAKED EGGS WITH ASPARAGVS OR SEA KALE 65 1 new-laid egg. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. let the egg cook in the steam for five minutes. Owing to very gentle heat, the albumen will be found to be softly solid, and very easily digested. If liked, instead of using a saucepan, place the egg in a basin on the table, pour over it the boiling water, and cover with a plate. A quite new-laid egg will take about one minute longer. For each additional egg allow an extra minute. Egg Snow. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar, or to taste. Lemon or orange juice to taste. Separate the white from the yolk; beat the yolk well with the sugar and milk; add lemon or orange juice to taste (if allowed), or port wine. Whisk the white to a very stiff froth ; mix two-thirds of it with the yolk, etc. ; pour into a glass, pile the remainder of the white roughly on the top, and sprinkle over a little white sugar. Invalids who refuse to take egg and milk simply beaten together, will often take them in this way, as, besides looking pretty and tempting, it does not look like raw egg; it is also much more easily digested, on account of the white being separately beaten. Strengthening Mixture. (for weak chests.) 4 new-laid eggs, i pint milk. £ lb. raw sugar. 4 lemons. ^ pint rum. Put the eggs in a basin with the juice of the lemons ; leave it to stand for three days, or till the 566 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY shells have dissolved. Then beat up with the milk, rum, and sugar. Strain, bottle, and take one table- spoonful three times a day. Savoury Egg. I egg. Butter. i teaspoonful cold chicken. i teaspoonful cold bacon or ham Parsley. Pepper and salt to taste. Chop the chicken, parsley, and bacon very finely (the latter can be omitted if not liked) ; add pepper and salt to taste. Butter well a small cup or dariole mould, line it well with the mixture, pressing it against the sides. Break an egg into a cup, pour very carefully into the centre. Cover with buttered paper, and steam gently until set. Serve on buttered toast. Baked Eggs. Melt in a saucer, or small dish sold on purpose, a little butter. Then break an egg, pour it in, keeping the yolk whole, and sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, if allowed. Bake till set on the top of the stove or in a cool oven. Serve in the dish. If the heat is too great, the albumen will become hard and horny, and very indigestible. Ruffled Eggs and Tomatoes. 2 eggs. 2 large tomatoes or two table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce. 2 oz. butter. Salt and pepper or cayenne to taste. If tomatoes are used instead of the sauce, stew them in half of the butter till tender, then rub through a sieve. Melt the other half of the butterSAVOURY EGG—STRENGTHENING MIXTURE 67 in a small saucepan, and add the eggs well beaten. Beat with a small fork until they begin to set, then add the tomatoes, or sauce, and seasoning ; continue beating until firm enough to pile in rough heaps on buttered toast. Baked Eggs with Asparagus or Seakale. 2 new-laid eggs. Cold boiled asparagus or seakale. J oz. butter. Pepper and salt to taste. Butter a small pie-dish. Place in it the soft part of the cold boiled asparagus or seakale ; season with pepper and salt. Break the eggs into it, taking care to keep them whole; place the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Mushrooms and Ruffled Eggs. ^ lb. mushrooms. oz. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 3 eggs. Toast. Pepper and salt to taste. Remove the stalks, peel the mushrooms, cut them into tiny pieces. Stew them until quite tender with one tablespoonful of milk, half an ounce of butter, pepper and salt. Then add to them one egg well beaten, keeping them hot until the eggs are ready. Beat the other eggs with a tablespoonful of milk and a little salt and pepper. Melt the rest of the butter in a small saucepan, pour in the eggs, beat with a fork until they thicken. Spread the stewed mush- rooms on some rounds of slightly-buttered toast; pile up the eggs as high as possible on each. Serve immediately. 5—268 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Ruffled Eggs and Cheese. 2 eggs. i oz. butter. Pepper and salt. J oz. Parmesan cheese, grated, i tablespoonful milk. 3 rounds buttered toast. Beat the eggs well; put them into a small stewpan with the milk, butter, cheese, pepper and salt. Let it cook two minutes, beating rapidly with a fork all the time. Pile high on the toast, and decorate, if liked, with a little chopped parsley. Brown Custard. i pint milk. 4 eggs. 6 oz. castor sugar. Vanilla essence. Beat the eggs and half of the sugar well together ; add to them vanilla to taste. Pour over them the boiling milk, beating well. Put the other half of the sugar into a saucepan, with a little water ; boil until the sugar is a dark brown. Heat a basin or plain mould, butter it, pour in enough of the brown sugar to cover the bottom about a quarter of an inch deep. Let it stand until it is set. Pour in the custard, cover with greased paper, and steam gently for one hour, or until the custard is set. Serve hot or cold. Claret Jelly. i pint claret, i pint water, i oz. sweet gelatine. 3 lemons. i lb. loaf sugar. 4 eggs. A few drops of cochineal. Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the water by the side of the fire. Then add the whites and crushed shells of the eggs, claret, rind and juice of the lemons, whisking occasionally until it boils. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the jelly settle forRASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY CREAM 69 five minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag, add a few drops of cochineal, and pour into wet moulds. Raspberry or Strawberry Cream. 1 lb. ripe raspberries or straw- berries. 2 oz. isinglass. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 pint whipped cream. Crush the fruit with the sugar, and rub through a hair sieve. Melt the isinglass in a little milk, then add it to the fruit, with the whipped cream ; mix thoroughly, and pour into wet moulds. Tapioca Cream. J teacupful tapioca. I teaspoonful vanilla. 1 pint milk. J pint cream. A few lumps of sugar. Boil half a teacupful of tapioca in a pint of milk till soft. Flavour with half a teaspoonful of vanilla, and add a few lumps of sugar. When quite cold, stir up and work in half a pint of whipped cream. Calf's Foot Cream. 2 hind-feet of a calf. 1 pint cream. 3 quarts water. 2 tablespoonfuls brandy. Sugar and ratafia to taste. Simmer the two hind-feet of a calf in three quarts of water till thoroughly done ; drain off the liquid, and when cold wipe off all the fat; add to the stock one pint of cream, sugar and ratafia to taste. Boil all together for five minutes, stirring it well. Strain through muslin, and add two tablespoonfuls of brandy. Stir occasionally till nearly cold, and pour into moulds.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY 7o Invalid Jelly. | oz. best gelatine. | pint water. i lemon or orange, i fresh egg. 3 lumps sugar, or to taste. Soak the gelatine in the water for twenty minutes, and rub the sugar on the lemon or orange to extract flavour and colour. Place gelatine, water, and sugar in a stewpan, and stir over a gentle heat till dissolved ; then add to it the strained lemon or orange juice, and enough water to make another quarter of a pint. If orange is used, use the juice of oranges instead of water. Have ready the egg well beaten in a basin ; add to this the mixture, very slowly beating all the time, and pour into wet moulds. This is not a clear jelly. Arrowroot Mould. 3 oz. arrowroot. ^ lb. sugar. 1 pint boiling water. 2 eggs. The rind and juice of 2 lemons Put the arrowroot, lemon rind and juice, and sugar, into a basin, and mix smoothly. Add the boiling water, stirring all the time ; let it cool. Put it into a sauce- pan, with two eggs well beaten, and stir until it boils. Rice Snowballs with Lemon or Orange Sauce. 2 tablespoonfuls rice. i pint.milk. lauiCiUUUinuia ii^. - r . , . . i tablespoonful sugar, or to taste. I very small pinch ot salt. Wash the rice and put into a clean saucepan, with the milk and salt. Stir until it boils, then simmer very gently about an hour, or until the rice is quite soft and has absorbed the milk. Then sweeten and pour into very small wet moulds. When cold, turnPLAIN PUDDING WITH CUSTARD 7i them out on a dish, and pour the sauce over. (See lemon or orange sauce.) Plain Pudding with Custard. 1 teaspoonful rice or tapioca. 1 pint milk. I oz. butter. 2 eggs. Bay-leaves or bitter almonds. Sugar to taste. Steep a teaspoonful of rice or tapioca in cold water; pour off the water, and then boil the rice in a pint of milk, or a little more than a pint, with half an ounce of butter. Beat up two eggs, and mix with the rice when it is nearly cold. Bake very slowly in a pudding-dish. Flavour with bay-leaves or bitter almonds, and sweeten to taste. Take care the oven is slow. Be sure the milk is cool before adding the eggs, and do not add cold milk before putting in the oven. Savoury Macaroni or Hominy. 3 to 4 oz. Naples macaroni 1 tablespoonful breadcrumbs. or hominy. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. grated cheese, or to ^ oz. butter. taste. Salt and pepper to taste. Put the macaroni into a pan with plenty of boiling water and a pinch of salt. Simmer half an hour, strain it, then add the milk and simmer it one hour till the milk is absorbed. Put on to a greased meat-dish, mix with it half of the cheese, and season to taste (mustard, salt and cayenne). Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese and breadcrumbs on the top, put the butter in small pieces here and there, and place it in the oven or before the fire for a few minutes to brown.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY 72 Nun's Pudding. The yolks of 3 eggs and the white of 1 egg. ij pints milk. 2 oz. loaf sugar. J lb. ratafia biscuits. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Pink sugar or crimson ' hun- dreds and thousands.' Grated lemon-peel. Beat up three eggs, leaving out two of the whites. Add to them gradually one and a half pints of milk. Then mix very carefully two tablespoonfuls of flour and two ounces of loaf sugar, with grated lemon-peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire, stirring constantly to prevent burning, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a dish with ratafia biscuits to cover the bottom, and when the cream is sufficiently boiled, pour it through a sieve upon the biscuits. This dish is always served cold, and should be powdered with pink sugar or crimson ' hundreds and thousands ' just before sending to table. Sponge Cake Pudding. 3 stale sponge-cakes. Jam or raspberries and red currants. J pint milk. 1 egg. Sugar to taste. Cut the cakes in slices, spread them with the jam, or crush the fruit with the sugar, and place the cake and fruit in alternate layers in a small pie-dish. Warm the milk; add it to the egg well beaten. Pour it slowly over the cake in the dish, and bake in a very moderate oven for twenty minutes. If liked, grated lemon or orange rind can be sprinkled on the layers of cake instead of jam, or fruit and sugar.SNOW PUDDING-SEMOLINA SOUFFLE 73 Snow Pudding. i pint milk'. i tablespoonful castor sugar. A little salt. 2 tablespoonfuls semolina. 2 yolks and 3 whites of eggs. Flavouring to taste. Put the milk in a saucepan, sprinkle m the semo- lina and salt; stir until it boils and thickens Let it cool a little ; add the yolks of the eggs well beaten with the sugar and flavouring. Pour into a greased pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. Whip the whites of the egg to a stiff froth, pile roughly as high as possible on the top, and sprinkle with castor sugar. Return to the oven for a very few minutes to set, but not to colour. If liked, arrowroot or ground rice could be used instead of semolina. Semolina Souffle. 3 oz. semolina. 2 eggs. 1 pint milk. A pinch of salt 1 tablespoonful sugar. Grated lemon-rind or any flavouring to taste. Put the milk in a saucepan, sprinkle the semolina into it; stir until it boils and thickens, then add the sugar, flavouring, and salt. Let the mixture cool a little, then add to it the yolks of the eggs beaten well. Whip the whites to a stiff froth ; stir lightly in. Pour into a well-greased mould or basin ; cover with a greased paper. Steam for one hour, then turn it out and serve with jam or marmalade sauce. Orange-Flower Custards. 4 yolks of eggs. T-h oz. pounded sugar. I pint new milk. A little orange-flower water. Beat up the eggs with the sugar and milk. Pour the mixture into a jug; set it in a saucepan of warm74 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OE COOKERY water over the fire, and stir with a spoon while the water heats and the mixture thickens. In this way the custard will be prevented curdling. Flavour with orange-flower water. Coffee Custards. These may be made in the same way as the orange-flower custards, simply using an extra half ounce of sugar, and a third of strong coffee to two- thirds- of milk. French Coffee Pudding. h lb. grated sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls strong coffee. A sixpenny sponge-cake. Sixpenny worth thick cream. The sponge-cake, which may be of the beehive shape, should not be quite newly baked. Whip the sugar and cream, then add the coffee. Cut the cake in slices, and spread the mixture thickly between them, retaining the shape of the cake. Garnish with cherries and angelica. Skelmorlie Pudding. 2 oz. tapioca. 2 eggs. Vanilla. i quart milk. i oz. grated sugar. Boil the tapioca in the milk for half an hour. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, and add them to the tapioca and milk when it is cool, with the addition of two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Season with essence of vanilla. Bake till nicely brown. Mix half an ounce of grated sugar with the whites, and beat them to a froth; pile roughly on the pudding, and put back in the oven for two or three minutes.75 FRUIT AND TAPIOCA PUDDING Fruit and Tapioca Pudding. + lb. loaf sugar. The rind of i lemon or some pieces of dried orange-peel, of cochineal. ih pints water. 3~tablespoonfuls tapioca, i lb apple or rhubarb. A few drops Put the water, sugar and lemon-rind into a sauce- pan • when it boils put in the tapioca. Simmer crently till the tapioca is quite clear, then colour with a few drops of cochineal. Have ready in a pie- dish the apples peeled, cored, and quartered, or the rhubarb cut into one and a half inch lengths. .Pour carefully over the tapioca, cover the pie-dish, and bake very slowly until the fruit is quite tender ; then serve. To make this pudding nourishing for an invalid, it should be served with cream or milk. Omelet Souffle, or Sweet Omelet. 2 eggs. i teaspoonful castor sugar, i dessertspoonful jam. i oz. butter. A few drops of orange-flower water, or any flavouring. Divide the yolks from the whites of the eggs, and beat the yolks, sugar, and flavouring until thick. Whip the whites to a stiff froth ; stir lightly into the yolks. Melt the butter in a small frying or omelet pan; pour in the mixture. Put it over the fire for about one minute, then in a very hot oven, or under the gas grill two or three minutes. Make the jam hot, put it on one half, fold over the other; sprinkle with sugar. Serve at once very hot. Rum or Brandy Omelet for Convalescents. j egg i oz. butter, i teaspoonful castor sugar. i tablespoonful milk, i teaspoonful rum or brandy. Beat the egg and sugar well together; add to them the milk and rum ; beat well again. Put the7C> THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY butter into an omelet-pan ; when quite hot pour in the mixture. Cook for three or four minutes, shaking the pan well to prevent the omelet sticking. Turn on to a very hot plate, roll up, sprinkle sugar over, and serve at once. If liked, two tablespoonfuls of rum or brandy can be warmed and poured over the omelet on the plate. Savoury Omelet. 2 eggs. i teaspoonful parsley, or, if i shallot. cheese is allowed, ii oz. i oz. butter. grated Parmesan cheese. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs with a fork; add to them the parsley and shallot very finely chopped, or the grated cheese, pepper and salt. Melt the butter in an omelet or frying pan, remove the scum, pour in the mixture ; stir well round with an iron spoon. As it seems to set, raise up the pan, scrape all towards the handle. In about ten seconds turn it over for a moment until the outside is set and of a pale brown. Place on a very hot dish, and serve at once. An omelet should not be quite set in the middle. Chocolate Blancmange. i pint milk. i oz. castor sugar. i\ oz. cornflour. 3 oz. grated chocolate. Mix the cornflour and grated chocolate smoothly with the milk; add the sugar. Let boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into wet border mould. Serve with whipped cream, piled high in the centre.DUTCH BLANCMANGE 77 Dutch Blancmange. i oz. isinglass. 5 eggs. £ lb. lump sugar. 1 pint water, -i pint sherry. 2 lemons. Simmer the isinglass in the water until dissolved. Rub the lump sugar upon the rind of one lemon. Beat the eggs well, leaving out two of the whites. Add the su°-ar, eggs, sherry and lemon-juice to the isinglass and water; mix well. Let it just simmer, whisking all the time. Then strain into small wet moulds. Tapioca Blancmange. 2 oz. tapioca, i oz castor sugar. A few strips lemon-rind or a few drops flavouring. i pint milk. Soak the tapioca in the milk for one hour, then boil twenty minutes, stirring well; add the sugar and flavouring to taste. Pour into a mould until set. Red Rice Blancmange (German). i lb. red currants f lb. ground rice i lb. raspberries, lb. castor sugar. A little cinnamon, if liked Squeeze the fruit into a clean cloth or jelly-bag; add the juice' to the ground rice by degrees, mixing quite smoothly ; then add the sugar. Pour into an enamelled pan, and stir until it boils and thickens, and easily leaves the side of the pan. Pour into a wet mould, and when cold turn out and serve with cream. This can be made with any dark-coloured fruit syrup, or with a one-pound jar of raspberry jam boiled for a few minutes in one and a half pints of78 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY water. Add a few drops of lemon-juice, and colour with cochineal; strain, and when cold add to the rice instead of the fresh-fruit juice. Marple Pudding. ^ lb. breadcrumbs. 2 eggs. Butter. A little lemon-rind, i pint milk, i tablespoonful sugar. Enough raisins to line mould. Butter a plain mould, and place the stoned and halved raisins round it. Mix the breadcrumbs and the milk (warm). Let these soak for a little while, then add the butter, sugar, lemon-rind, and eggs. Beat all well together; pour the mixture into the mould, cover closely, and steam for two hours. Apple Amber Pudding. 3 apples. 3 oz. sugar. The peel of half a lemon cut thin, i grating of nutmeg. Peel and mince the apples, and mix with the sugar, breadcrumbs, lemon-peel, salt, and nutmeg. Beat the eggs and add them ; stir in the brandy. Steam in a well-buttered mould for three hours, and serve with wine sauce. 3 eggs. 3 oz. breadcrumbs. \ glass brandy. % teaspoonful salt. Stewed Pears. 3 lb. baking pears. 5 cloves. £ pint water. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 5 whole allspice. A few drops cochineal. • Peel the pears, and cut them in halves. Remove the core, but leave the stalk. Put them into an enamelled saucepan, or into a stewing-jar with a lid, with the sugar and water, cloves and allspice,STEWED NORMANDY PIPPINS 79 and the peel of the pears ; simmer gently for four hours until tender. Watch them well; lift them out carefully into a glass dish. Remove the peel; add a few drops of cochineal, and one glass of port wine, if liked; boil up the syrup. Pour this over the pears, and allow them to get quite cold. Stewed Normandy Pippins. i lb. pippins. 4 cloves. | lb. moist sugar. i lemon. i inch of cinnamon stick. Water. Take one pound of pippins; lay them in water all night, covered with the sugar. Next day put them and the syrup they will be in into a saucepan; let it stand by the side of the fire, and simmer for one and a half hours. Semolina simply cooked. 4 tablespoonfuls semolina. A small piece of butter. ih pints cold milk, i tablespoonful sugar. Any flavouring which is liked. Put the semolina and the milk into a clean sauce- pan ; add the butter, sugar, and seasoning. Stir well till it boils; let it boil eight or ten minutes, stirring occasionally. It will then be ready, and should be eaten with milk or cream. Strengthening or Port-Wine Jelly. i oz. very best gum arabic. i oz. isinglass. J lb. sugar-candy. h, bottle port or sherry. Put the gum arabic with two tablespoonfuls of cold water in ajar; when quite dissolved add the other ingredients, and put the mixture into an oven, not8o THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY too hot, stirring occasionally. When all is dissolved the jelly is done, but is not to be turned out. A teaspoonful may be given about every hour. Irish Moss Jelly. J oz. Irish moss, i pint milk. i oz. sugar. A strip of lemon-rind. Soak the moss a few hours in cold water; put the milk in a saucepan, add the moss, sugar, and lemon- rind. Simmer all gently for at least half an hour. Strain and pour into wet moulds. Turn out when cold. Porter Jelly. ^ oz. gelatine, pint stout or porter. h pint water, i lemon. Sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the water with the rind of lemon, then add the stout or porter, lemon-juice, and castor sugar to taste. Let it just boil up; strain through a hair sieve. Pour into wet moulds. Stewed Apples. (miss e. frost.) 3 large apples. i tablespoonful castor sugar. \ teaspoonful gelatine. 3 tablespoonfuls cold water. \ lemon. A. few drops of cochineal. Peel the apples thinly and evenly, keeping them whole. Put the juice of the half lemon, the water, the gelatine and cochineal, into a stewing-pan or basin. Put in the apples, scatter the sugar over them, lay the thin rind of the lemon on the top ; cover closely. Stew very gently in a slow oven until the apples areSTEWED FIGS-STEAMED FIGS-NURSERY PUDDING 81 quite tender, and almost transparent. Then place them on a glass dish, and strain the syrup over them. Serve when cold. Stewed Figs. (for constipation.) Remove any stalk or hard pieces from the figs; prick the skins, and soak them overnight in enough water to cover them. Then put them and the water into a small stewpan, and simmer very slowly about twenty minutes. French plums or prunes can be stewed in the same way with, if liked, a little sugar. Steamed Figs. Prick the figs; place them in a steamer over boiling water for about one hour, or until quite soft. Nursery Pudding. 3 oz. breadcrumbs, i pint milk. 2 eggs. Sugar and nutmeg to taste. Boil the milk, pour over the crumbs; soak well; add the eggs, well beaten, with the sugar and nutmeg. Mix well. Butter six cups, pour the mixture in; bake fifteen minutes. Turn out and serve with any sweet sauce. Golden Toast, or Poor Knights Slices of bread § inch thick i egg. i pint milk. i teaspoonful castor sugar. A few drops of essence. Make the custard; soak the bread in it until rather soft. Fry in butter a golden brown. Serve sprinkled with sugar, or a little jam on each. 682 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Cup Pudding. i heaped dessertspoonful corn- flour. \ pint milk. A few drops of any flavouring. i teaspoonful castor sugar, i egg. A little butter. A few grains of salt. Mix the cornflour smooth with a little of the milk; add the rest of the milk, sugar, and salt. Pour into a saucepan ; let it boil, stirring well, five minutes. Let it cool a little, then add the egg well beaten, and the flavouring. Pour into a greased cup. Boiled Barley. i teacupful barley. \\ pints cold water. A little butter, salt and sugar. Take one teacupful of barley, wash it, then put it into a small pan with a pint and a half of cold water, and let it boil for four'hours. Stir it now and then ; season with salt and sugar to taste. A little butter is a great improvement. Semolina Cream. 1 oz. semolina. 2 oz. castor sugar. i oz. French gelatine. \\ pints milk. \ wineglass brandy, or sherry, if liked. i inch vanilla stick. Soak the semolina in one gill of the milk for three- quarters of an hour. Put the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and when boiling pour on to the semolina, stirring all the time. Add the vanilla stick, and boil slowly for twenty minutes; then add sherry or brandy, if liked. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of hot water ; when cool pour into the semolina, and turn into prepared mould.ORANGE JELLY-SPONGE AND PLAIN RUSKS 83 Orange Jelly. 1 dozen Seville oranges. 4 sweet oranges. 1 lb. loaf sugar to each pint of liquor. Quarter the oranges, leaving the rind on. Let them remain in enough cold water to cover them. Then boil until quite tender, and strain through a fine hair- sieve, and to each pint of liquid add one pound of loaf sugar. Boil for one hour, or until it sets, skim- ming well. Pour into jars, and tie over like preserve. This is more easily digested than marmalade on account of the absence of peel. Sponge Rusks. Cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick a stale Savoy or sponge-cake. Cut these into strips one inch wide ; lay them on a drainer or gridiron in a big slow oven until a pale brown, and very crisp. They will keep for several days in a dry tin, and are much liked by invalids with stewed fruit, etc. Plain Rusks. (FOR INVALIDS NOT ALLOWED TO EAT BREAD.) Cut a stale tin loaf into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and proceed as for sponge rusks. Diet Bread, or Invalid's Cake. 3 eggs. The weight of 2 eggs m castor sugar and flour. A little grated lemon-rind or essence, if allowed. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. Take the weight of two eggs in castor sugar and flour. Pass the flour through a sieve ; break all the 6—284 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY eggs into a basin, add to them the sugar, and whisk until nearly white and like a thick cream. Then shake in the flour and grated lemon-rind, and stir very lightly. Have ready a shallow baking-tin lined with buttered paper. Bake in a very moderate oven about three quarters of an hour, or until firm to the touch. Or, if liked, bake in an ordinary cake tin (lined), or in small fancy tins. The same mixture can, for a change, be baked on two plates, and when baked have jam spread on one, and the other placed over, forming Victoria sandwiches. This is an excellent cake for invalids, as it contains no fat except the very small amount of oil in the yolks of the eggs. Milk Rolls. i lb. flour. A heaped tablespoonful of A pint milk. baking-powder. A pinch of salt. Mix flour, salt, and baking-powder in a basin ; add the milk. Mix with a wooden spoon, then beat well till quite smooth; turn on to a floured board, and divide into eight portions. Form each into a fancy shape as quickly as possible, and bake in a very hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes. When nearly done, brush over with a little egg and milk to glaze. Bread Sauce. 3 oz. breadcrumbs, i small onion. 6 peppercorns, f pint milk. I gill cream or i oz. butter. 3 cloves. A little nutmeg. Salt to taste. Prepare the onion, stick the cloves in it. Put in a saucepan the milk, onion and peppercorns, andMELTED BUTTER S5 simmer ten minutes. Pour over the breadcrumbs in a basin, cover with a plate, and stand in a warm place about half an hour. Then take out the onion cloves, and peppercorns, add a little nutmeg, and salt to taste, and the cream and butter. Melted Butter (I). oz. butter. i"oz. flour. I pint water, or i gill water and i gill milk. Rub the butter and flour together in a basin until quite smooth, add the boiling water, or water and milk, and boil for three minutes, stirring all the time. Melted Butter (2). Use the same ingredients as above. Put the butter in a small saucepan ; when melted add by degrees the flour. Mix quite smoothly, taking care it does not fizz, or the flour will brown. Add the water (cold) by degrees. Boil three minutes, stirring all the time. It is considered by many to be a great improve- ment, and the sauce to taste more of the butter if only half the quantity of the latter is used in making the sauce, and the other half added just before serving. A Simple Fish Sauce (i). i oz. butter. i pint fish stock, or the water in i oz. flour. " which the fish has been cooked. A little pepper and salt. Rub the butter and flour together, add the boiling fish water or stock, stirring well. Boil three minutes; add pepper and salt to taste.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY 86 Oyster Sauce. Make as above, adding one teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and one dozen oysters cut into quarters, and using, instead of fish stock, half a pint of water, in which the beards of the oyster have been boiled for fifteen minutes. Fish Sauce (2). 1 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful flour. \ gill cream. \ pint stock, made from fish bones. Salt, mace, and cayenne to taste. Rub the butter and flour together in a basin, add to them the hot fish stock by degrees. Mix very smoothly; pour into a small saucepan, stir until it boils and thickens, then add the cream, salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. Strain over the fillets. Sauce Piquante. 2 oz. butter. 1 tablespoonful French vinegar or Tarragon vinegar. 1 oz. flour. \ pint of the bouillon from the pot au feu or good gravy. Half a shallot. Put in the stewpan two ounces of butter and half a shallot finely chopped, and some flour, and stir gently till all melts and is nice and brown. Pour in by degrees the gravy or bouillon, and one tablespoonful of French vinegar. Let it boil a few minutes, and then serve in the sauce-tureen. Jam or Marmalade Sauce. 1 tablespoonful jam or marmalade. 1 gill water. 1 oz. white sugar. Put the jam, or marmalade, water and sugar into a small saucepan, and simmer gently uncoveredQUICKLY-MADE LEMON SAUCE 87 until it becomes a rather thick syrup. Then strain the sauce, and pour it round the pudding. If jam is used add a few drops of cochineal to improve the Quickly made Lemon Sauce. The juice of one lemon. 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. 1 wineglassful of water. Boil the water and sugar for a few minutes, then pour on to the lemon-juice and serve. Lemon Sauce. 1 gill water. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 1 lemon. 2 tablespoonfuls gin. Boil the water, sugar, and rind of the lemon for a quarter of an hour; then add the strained lemon- juice and 2 tablespoonfuls of gin. Strain and serve. A great addition to milk puddings, plain blanc- mange, or suet puddings. Lemon or Orange Sauce. 1 lemon or orange. 1 teacupful cold water. 1 tablespoonful brown sugar. Peel the fruit very thinly and shred finely. Put it in a saucepan; strain the juice, and add with it the water and sugar. Simmer very slowly one hour, or until the rind is clear and curling. Good with plain suet pudding: German or Wine Sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. 1 wineglass sherry, or, if liked, brandy. Beat the yolks ; put them into a stewpan with the sugar and wine. Whisk over the fire until it becomes88 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY a thick froth, taking care not to let it burn, or it will curdle. Then serve. Wine Sauce, quickly made. i wineglass sherry. 1 oz. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. Put the ingredients in a cup or small saucepan until the butter is melted and the sauce quite hot; but it must not boil. Then serve. Vanilla Sauce. 2 oz. loaf sugar. \ pint cold water. i inch vanilla stick. i tablespoonful arrowroot. Boil the water, sugar and vanilla stick ten minutes, then add the arrowroot mixed smoothly with one tablespoonful of cold water. Boil five minutes, stirring well. Take out the vanilla and serve. If liked, two tablespoonfuls of rum can be added. Gruel. i tablespoonful coarse oatmeal. Sugar to taste. i pint water or milk. A small piece fresh butter. A little ginger, if liked. When the water boils shake in the oatmeal; stir for five minutes, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for quite one hour. Strain and sweeten, and flavour to taste. Coarse oatmeal gives the gruel a nicer flavour than the fine, but should always be strained, as the rough pieces very often irritate the digestive organs. If the patient is not feverish, and the flavour is liked, the gruel may be flavoured with two table- spoonfuls of rum.ROYAL GRUEL-TAMARIND WATER 89 1 eg-g- , r 1 1. 1 wmeglassful snerry 1 strip lemon-rind Royal Gruel. A little grated nutmeg. 1 pint gruel or arrowroot. Sugar to taste. Beat the egg, sherry, and nutmeg well together; add them to the gruel, which has been flavoured with the lemon-rind and sugar, and strained. Serve with fingers of toast. Tamarind Water. 2 oz. tamarinds. I lb. stoned raisins. 3 pints water. Put the tamarinds, raisins, and water into a stew- pan. Boil gently for one hour, then strain and use when cold. Black Currant and Arrowroot Water. 2 large tablespoonfuls black-currant jam. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. 1 quart water. Put the jam and water into a saucepan, let it boil, then cover it, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Then strain it, and when it boils again pour it on to the arrowroot, which has been mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and stir well. Serve when cold. Cornflour Posset. £ oz. cornflour. I pint sherry. 1 oz. sugar, or to taste. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the sherry. Boil five minutes, stirring all the time. Flavour, if liked, with a little cinnamon or nutmeg.go THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Milk with Suet. \ pint milk. | oz. suet (mutton). Shred the suet very finely, add it to the milk, and simmer very gently for three quarters of an hour; then strain through a hair-sieve or muslin. Used for colds, chest, and wasting diseases. Apple Water. 2 large apples, i pint water. i oz. castor sugar, or to taste. A few strips of lemon-rind. Wash the apples, but do not peel or core them; cut them in slices. Put them into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and lemon-rind. Simmer gently for one hour, then strain, and tie over closely until cold to keep in their flavour. Apple water, lemonade, etc., are very useful and cooling drinks in feverish cases, but contain no nourishment. Baked Apple Water. 3 large apples. i pint boiling water. Wash the apples; bake them unpeeled until quite soft. Then pour the boiling water over them ; stir well, and sweeten, if liked. Strain when cold; it is then ready for use. Useful in fever cases. Pleasant Drink. (useful in cases of acidity of the stomach.) 1 wineglassful sherry. 2 wineglassfuls lime-water. 2 wineglassfuls milk. Mix all well together.9i BLACK CURRANT VINEGAR Black Currant Vinegar. 3 lb. black currants. 1 quart best vinegar. 1J lb. loaf sugar. Put all these ingredients together, and let them lie eight days; then strain. Put the liquor in a preserving-pan and simmer twenty minutes, skim- ming well. When cold, bottle and cork well. This will keep for years. Blackberry Vinegar. Put one quart of blackberries into a bowl, add three pints of vinegar ; stand for twenty-four hours. Then strain this vinegar on to another quart of fresh blackberries. Let it stand for another twenty- four hours. Strain and measure juice into a jar. Add to each pint one pound of sugar ; dissolve before covering the jar, and place in a saucepan of water. Boil for an hour. Use the same as raspberry vinegar. Refreshing Drink for an Invalid. \ teaspoonful rice. 1 quart water. 2 or 3 good apples. Honey or sugar to taste. Put the apples and rice into the water; boil gently until both are soft, and pass the whole through a fine hair-sieve, rubbing the apples and rice well with a wooden spoon. Then sweeten to taste with the honey or sugar. This is best drunk lukewarm.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Celery Water. (for rheumatism.) i stick celery, i quart water. Wash the celery and brush it clean; cut it into small pieces, and put it into a quart of water. Let it boil for four hours, and as the water boils away fill it up with a little more, until when ready there is about a pint. Take a wineglass of it twice a day. Egg with Port-Wine. i egg. Sugar and nutmeg to taste. i wineglass port-wine. i wineglass very hot water. Beat the egg and sugar well together, then strain, and add gradually the hot water, beating all the time. Then add the wine and a dust of nutmeg. Serve with thin sippets of dry toast or finger sponge- cakes. Sago Posset Cordial. 2 oz. sago. h oz. loaf sugar. i teaspoonful tincture of ginger. i quart cold water, i pint sherry, i lemon. Boil the sago in the water until it is a jelly. Rub the sugar on the lemon-rind. Add this with the ginger and sherry to the sago jelly; boil for five minutes. This must not be given after diseases of an in- flammatory nature. Barley Water. 2 oz. barley, i lemon. i oz. loaf sugar, i quart water. Wash the barley; put it into a clean saucepan with one pint of cold water. Boil for five minutes,93 CLEAR BARLEY WATER throw away the water, and again wash the barley. Return the barley to the saucepan with a quart of cold water, sugar, and the rind of a lemon. Simmer for two hours, strain through fine muslin, squeeze the lemon, add the juice, and allow to cool before serving. Be most careful not to give the sediment. Strain when cold into another jug. 2 oz. pearl barley i oz. loaf sugar Clear Barley Water. The rind of half a lemon, ii pints boiling water, or to taste. Wash the barley, put it into a jug with the sugar and lemon-rind peeled very thinly ; if any of the pitts are left on it will taste bitter. Pour over the boiling water ; cover closely till cold. Thick Barley Water. 2 oz. pearl barley. The rind of half a lemon. i oz. loaf sugar, i quart cold water. Wash the barley in two or three waters, put it in a stewpan with the cold water. Boil gently for two hours, skimming now and then. Put the sugar and lemon-rind into a jug, strain the barley water on to it; cover closely till cold. If the patient is allowed to take acids, the juice of half a lemon in both cases is a very great improvement. Toast and Water. Toast a piece of crust of bread about two inches square ; the crumb of the loaf is apt to turn sour. Put it in a jug, and pour over it one quart of boiling water. Cover until cold.94 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY By some this is considered more refreshing if cold filtered water is used instead of boiling water. Bran Tea. 3 tablespoonfuls best bran. If wine or lemon-juice are al- Sugar or honey to taste. lowed, i wineglass sherry or i quart boiling water. the juice of half a lemon. Put the bran into a jug, pour over it the boiling water; let it stand in a warm place for a quarter of an hour. Then strain through a hair-sieve or piece of muslin. Sweeten to taste, and add wine or lemon- juice, if allowed. White Wine Whey (Milk). i pint milk. i wineglass sherry or Madeira. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. Put the milk and sugar in a saucepan ; when it boils add the wine. The milk must be boiling when the wine is added, or it will not curdle. Let it stand a minute, then strain and serve very hot. It must be strained, as the curds are very indigestible. Treacle posset is made in the same way, leaving out the sugar and using the same amount of treacle as wine. White Wine Whey (Eggs). 2 yolks of eggs. i gill sherry or Madeira. i dessertspoonful castor sugar. Beat the yolks and sugar together; stir into the wine when it boils. All possets should be taken as hot as possible.95 LINSEED TEA Linseed Tea. i tablespoonful linseed. 11 pints boiling water. J oz. Spanish liquorice. The juice of a lemon, if allowed. Sugar to taste. Put the linseed and liquorice into the water, and boil till the liquid is reduced to one pint, which will be in about twenty minutes after it boils. Strain into a jug into which you have squeezed the juice of a lemon, if allowed. Sweeten to taste; about one ounce of sugar should suffice. Wash the rice, put it in a small stewpan with the raisins and water; simmer one hour. Then strain, and serve when cold. Put the sugar in a jug, pour over it the boiling water; stir well until the sugar is dissolved. When cold, add the orange-flower water. Rice Water. oz. rice. ^ oz. raisins, i pint cold water. Eau Sucre'e. i pint boiling water. i tablespoonful orange-flower water. i oz. lump sugar.96 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY PEPTONISED FOOD. As in certain cases the use of peptonised food is imperative, the following valuable recipes are in- serted : Beef Tea (predigested). Take £ lb. of very finely minced raw lean beef, or the same weight (of equal portions) of beef and chicken mixed ; and of cold water \ pint. Cook over a gentle fire, stirring occasionally until it has boiled a few minutes ; then pour off the liquor for future use, and beat or rub the meat to a paste, and put it into a clean jar or bottle with \ pint of cold water, and the liquor poured from the meat. Add ' zymine' four measures* (20 grains); bicarbo- nate of soda one measure (15 grains); shake all well together, and set aside in a warm place at no0 to 115° F. (or such temperature as is indicated when water feels hot to the hand plunged into it) for three hours, stirring or shaking occasionally; then boil quickly. The liquor may then be strained or clarified with white of egg in the usual manner. Season to taste with salt and pepper, but do not season too much. For a great majority of cases it will not be necessary to strain the peptonised liquor, for the portion of meat remaining undissolved will have been so acted upon by the ' zymine' and softened that it will be in very fine particles, and diffused in an almost impalpable condition, and is consequently in a * A measure means that quantity which will pj»»PKJ top of the cork) which is supplied with each bottle of zymine (Fairchild).PEPTONISED OYSTERS 97 form adapted to ready digestion in the stomach. Be sure to boil the peptonised beef after it has stood three hours in a warm place, otherwise the digestion will proceed until the meat is spoiled. The process above given for peptonisation of beef will do equally well for other kinds of meat, such as mutton, veal, lamb, fowl, game, etc. Peptonised Oysters. (ORIGINALLY SUGGESTED BY DR. N. A. RANDOLPH.) Take six large oysters with their juice and half a pint of water; heat in a saucepan until they have boiled briskly for a few minutes. Mince the oysters finely, and reduce them to a paste with a potato- masher in a wooden bowl; now put the oysters in a glass jar with the broth which has been set aside, and add 'zymine' three measures (15 grains), and bicarbonate of soda one measure (15 grains). Let the jar stand in hot water or a warm place where the temperature is not above 115° F. for one and a half hours, then pour into a saucepan, and add half a pint of milk; heat over the fire slowly to boiling-point, flavour with salt and pepper, or condiments to taste, and serve very hot. There will be found but very small pieces of the oysters undigested, and these may be strained out or rejected in eating the soup, tut will not prove disturbing to the stomach except in very rare cases. The milk will be sufficiently digested during the few minutes which will elapse before the mixture boils, if heated gradually. Be sure to boil the peptonised oysters to finish the process. 798 THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY Predigested (Zyminised) Milk. Into a clean vessel pour a pint of fresh milk, a teacupful of warm water, and add the contents of a ' zymine ' peptonising tube (Fairchild); set the vessel in a warm place, or in water as hot as the hand can bear for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. At the end of this time the milk should be quickly boiled or placed on ice. If peptonisation be allowed to proceed beyond the specified time, the milk will become bitter. When the peptonised milk is not for immediate use, it should be boiled for two or three minutes, or kept on ice. Boiling permanently stops peptonisation, cold simply suspends it. Milk, Partially Zyminised. Put the powder contained in one of the ' zymine' peptonising tubes (Fairchild) into a clean granite- ware or porcelain-lined saucepan with a teacupful (gill) of cold water; stir well, then add a pint of fresh, cold milk. Place the saucepan on a hot range or gas-stove, and heat with constant stirring until the mixture boils. The heat should be so applied as to make the milk boil in ten minutes. When cool, strain into a clean bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. When needed, shake the bottle, pour out the required portion, and serve hot or cold, as directed by the physician. JV.J3 —Milk thus prepared will not become bitter.MILK, HOT ZYMINISED, AS A BEVERAGE 99 Digestive Junket. Take half a pint fresh milk, heated lukewarm—not warmer than can be agreeably borne by the mouth— add one teaspoonful of pepsencia (Fairchild), and stir just enough to mix. Let it stand till firmly curdled. The junket may be served plain, or with sugar and grated nutmeg. Milk, Hot Zyminised, as a Beverage. Into a clean quart bottle put the powder contained in one of the ' zymine' peptonising tubes (Fairchild) and a teacupful of cold water; shake, then add a pint of fresh, cold milk, and shake the mixture again. Place the bottle on ice till the mixture is required for use. When needed, pour the portion to be used into a saucepan, and heat as hot as can be agreeably sipped. If required for immediate use, the ' zymine' peptonising powder, cold water, and cold milk may be thoroughly mixed in the saucepan, and heated to the proper temperature for drinking. At this temperature (and during the heating), the zyminising powder acts with great rapidity, and in a few minutes a hot peptonised milk may be pre- pared which will be sufficiently digested for the majority of cases. Hot zyminised milk is the most grateful, nourishing, and bracing beverage for in- valids, dyspeptics, diabetics, and consumptives; it is especially useful with breakfast, and at any time when suffering from a sense of exhaustion, with an intolerance for solid food. It is very acceptable to persons who require nourishment before sleeping, especially if a little Kepler malt extract be added. 7—2ioo THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY It may be used at the table instead of ordinary milk with tea and coffee. Milk, Effervescent Zyminised. Put some finely cracked ice into a glass, and then half fill it with cold Apollinaris, Vichy, or aerated water, as preferred; then quickly pour in the zyminised milk, and drink during effervescence. Zyminised milk may be made agreeable to many patients by serving with a little grated nutmeg, sweetened with Kepler malt extract, or flavoured with a little brandy, etc. Milk, Brandy, and Egg. Place an egg in a tumbler and beat up into a froth, add powdered sugar to taste, and a dessert- spoonful of brandy. To the mixture add quarter of a pint of fresh or zyminised milk. Digestive Whey. Curdle warm milk with the pepsencia (Fairchild), as under ' Digestive Junket'; when firmly curdled, beat up with a fork until the curd is finely divided, then strain, and the whey is ready for use. Whey is a highly nutritious fluid food, containing in solution the sugar and salts (mineral constituents) of milk, and holding also in suspension a considerable portion of casein and fat (cream) which pass through the strainer. It is peculiarly useful in many ailments, and always valuable as a means of imparting variety to the diet of the sick. In the form of this digestive whey it is frequently resorted to as a food for infants to tide over periods of indigestion.101 HUMANISED MILK Humanised Milk. (fairchild.) The Fairchild peptogenic milk powder is a pre- paration by means of which a reliable humanised milk can be readily prepared. When cow's milk is treated with the peptogenic milk powder, the casein is so altered that when taken into the stomach it forms only light feathery flakes like those of human milk, and is easily digested by the youngest infant. In order to show the close similarity that exists between natural and artificial human milk, the results of some comparative analyses, made by Dr. Albert Leeds, are given : w , „ , Milk- Albu- A , Water. Fat. . Ash. sugar, minoids. Average of analyses of So samples of human milk .. .. .. 8673 413 6 94 2 0 2 Analysis of ' humanised milk,' as made with Peptogenic Milk Powder .. .. .. .. 86 2 4 5 7 2 0 3 Directions. — Put into a clean agate - ware or porcelain-lined saucepan one measure* of the pepto- genic milk powder, half a pint of cold water, half a pint of cold fresh milk, and four tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat with constant stirring until the mixture boils. The heat should be so applied as to make the milk boil in ten minutes. Keep in a clean, well-corked bottle in a cold place. When some is needed, shake the bottle and pour out the desired portion, and heat to the proper warmth * A measure is furnished with each package of the Peptogenic Milk Powder. Put the powder into the measure with the blade of a knife, shaking it down firmly so as to fill it well and evenly.THE NURSE'S HANDBOOK OF COOKERY for feeding—lukewarm. Milk so prepared is in every way suited for the daily food of a healthy infant through the entire nursing period. A NURSING NOTE. Though skill in the culinary art is the best aid to the doctor and the nurse, something may also be said of the importance of serving daintily what has been carefully prepared for the patient. And first as to the tray. It should be of the right size, neither too large nor too small; those who have suffered when ill from either the clothless tea-tray of the lodging-house, burdened with the loaf and family teapot, or from the cup-of-tea tray on which has been crowded all required for breakfast, can testify that this warning is not needless. It is a good plan to have a bed-table in every house, though there are some patients who complain that it pins them down, and prefer a little table handy by the bedside. The nurse should be ready to remove both tray and table when the meal is ended. The tray-cloth should always be of the freshest and cleanest description. The little board-school maidens are taught that this is possible in the poorest house where cloths are often 'washed-up' for the sick meal. And for our own dear ones dainty linen need not be spared. They are influenced by little things, and have their fancies in china also, which a good nurse will humour. To some, tea is never so tempting as it is in a white cup, while others like both colour and occasional variety in thisA NURSING NOTE 103 as in other things. It is a good plan to heat a little teapot, and to pour into it the tea made in another one, as doctors often prohibit ' tea that has stood.' In any case the plates should fit comfortably into the tray, and yet not absolutely like the pieces of a dis- sected map ; and if there is room for a specimen glass holding a fresh rose or other flower, sent perhaps by some loving friend, we may be sure it will be greeted with a smile, and the morning tea after the weary night will seem all the better. In sickness the un- expected does not lose its power of giving pleasure. It may be permitted, too, in a note of this sort to plead for variety of food. Its importance is now understood in preparing meals for those in health; but in sickness it is even of greater value. Let the nurse then obtain for her patient all the variety that is consistent with the limitations of the case, re- membering that even the change in the colouring of a dish is not an insignificant one, and will often induce a patient to eat. In a monotonous and suffering life a change which seems trifling to outsiders is very real to the prisoner within four walls. To move the sofa to a slightly different position, to change the picture opposite the bed from time to time, to bring in some unexpected flowers or fruit—none of these things are beneath the attention of the nurse on whom the wellbeing and restoration of the patient depends, and whose power, like that of genius, lies in ' an infinite capacity for taking pains.'I N D EX. A Nursing Note, 102 Beef-Tea, Soups and Broths : Artichoke Soup, 11 Beef Essence, 3 Beef for Invalids (t), 17 Beef for Invalids (2), 17 Beef-Tea, 2 Beef-Tea, Cold, 14 Beef-Tea Jelly, 3 Beef-Tea, Raw, 3 Calf's-Foot Broth, 5 Celery Soup, 7 Cheese Soup, 8 Chicken Broth, 15 Chicken Panada, 17 Clear Soup, 13 Compound Meat-Tea, An Exxel- lent, 4 Consomme1 a l'Impe>atrice (Clear Soup and Poached Eggs), 14 Fish Soup, 28 German Egg Soup, 7 Giblet Broth, 11 Green-Pea Soup, 12 Haricot Puree, 10 Meat Essence (very strengthen- ing), 16 Mutton Broth, 5 Mutton-Tea, 4 Ox-Tail Soup, 13 Potato Purde, 10 Pot-au-Feu, 15 Stock, 6 Tomato Soup, 14 Veal Cream, 7 Veal-Tea, 5 Vegetable-Marrow or Pumpkin Soup, 8 White Soubise Soup, 9 Diet Bread, or Invalid's Cake, 83 Drinks : Apple Water, 90 Apple Water, Baked, 90 Barley Water, 92 Barley Water, Clear, 93 Barley Water, Thick, 93 Blackberry Vinegar, 91 Black - Currant and Arrowroot Water, 89 Black-Currant Vinegar, 91 Bran-Tea, 94 Celery Water, for Rheumatism, 92 Cornflour Posset, 89 Eau Sucr6e, 95 Egg Snow, 65 Egg with Port-Wine, 92 Gruel, 88 Gruel, Royal, 89 Linseed-Tea, 95 Milk with Suet, 90 Pleasant Drink, 90 Refreshing Drink for an Invalid, Rice Water, 95 Sago Posset Cordial, 92 Tamarind Water, 89 Toast and Water, 94 White Wine Whey (Eggs), 94 White Wine Whey (Milk), 94 Eggs : A Light, Digestible Way of cook- ing an Egg, 64 Baked Eggs, 66 Baked Eggs with Asparagus or Seakale, 67 Egg Snow, 65 Mushrooms and Ruffled Eggs, 67 Ruffled Eggs and Cheese, 68INDEX ios Eggs—con tin ued: Ruffled Eggs and Tomatoes, 66 Savoury Egg, 66 Steamed Egg, 64 Strengthening Mixture, 65 To poach an Egg for an Invalid, 64 Fish: Filleted Fish, 25 Filleted Sole au Crevettes, 26 Fish Cakes, 24 Fish Cream, 27 Fish Croquettes, 24 Fish Custard, 24 Fish Pudding, 23 Fish Soup, 28 Fish Toast, 25 Fried Fillets of Sole, 26 Invalid Fish, 25 Oysters, 21 Oysters a la Blanche, 21 Oysters, Broiled, 22 Oysters, Stewed, 22 Potted Sole or Plaice, 27 Sole stewed in Milk, 26 Steamed Whiting, Plaice, or Sole, 23 Stewed Cod or Hake, 28 Whiting baked in Milk, 23 Meat, Poultry and Game : Baked Sweetbreads, 38 Boiled Calf's Head, 45 Brain Cutlets, 47 Chicken Cream, 49 Chicken Mould, 47 Chop, Broiled, 36 Chop, Steamed, 37 Chop, Stewed, 37 Chop, Stewed, and Rice, 38 Fowl with Cheese, 41 Fricassee of Cold Chicken, 49 Game Scallops, 41 Invalid Stew, 39 Minced Meat, Game, or Poultry, 39 Mutton and Oyster, or Mush- room, Pudding, 40 Mutton Pie, 43 Ox Palates, stewed fi), 47 Ox Palates, stewed (2), 48 Ox Tongue, boiled, 50 Ox Tongue, larded and roasted, 49 Pigeon stewed in Milk, 42 Rabbit stewed in Milk, 39 Meat, Poultry and Game—continued: Roast Guinea-fowl, 46 Roast Partridge, 46 Roast Pheasant, 46 Roast Pigeon, 46 Stewed Calf's Brains, 43 Stewed Chicken and Rice, 42 Stewed Lamb, or Veal, and Peas, 44 Stewed Ptarmigan, 46 Tripe stewed in Milk, 44 Milk Rolls, 84 Note on Beef-Tea, Soups, etc., 1 Note on Dried Peas, Beans, and Len- tils, 61 Note on Farinaceous Foods, 60 Note on Fish, 18 Note on Fruit, 63 Note on Meat, Poultry, etc., 29 Note on Milk, Eggs, Butter, and Cheese, 62 Note on Vegetables, 50 Peptonised Food : Beef-Tea (Predigested), 56 Digestive Junket, 99 Digestive Whey, 100 Milk, Brandy, and Egg, 100 Milk, Effervescent Zyminised, 100 Milk, Hot Zyminised, as a Bever- age, 99 Milk, Humanised, 101 Milk, Partially Zyminised, 98 Milk, Predigested (Zyminised),98 Oysters, 97 Plain Rusks, 83 Sauces : Bread Sauce, 84 Fish Sauce, Simple (1), 85 Fish Sauce (2), 86 German or Wine Sauce, 87 Jam or Marmalade Sauce, 86 Lemon or Orange Sauce, 87 Lemon Sauce, 87 Lemon Sauce, Quickly-made, 87 Melted Butter (1), 85 Melted Butter (2), 85 Oyster Sauce, 86 Sauce Piquante, 86 Vanilla Sauce, 88 Wine Sauce, Quickly-made, 88 Savouries : Beef-Tea Custard, 4 Savoury Macaroni or Hominy, 71 Savoury Omelet, 76io6 INDEX Sponge Rusks, 83 Sweets: Apple Amber Pudding, 78 Arrowroot Mould, 70 Boiled Barley, 82 Brown Custard, 68 Calf's-Foot Cream, 69 Chocolate Blancmange, 76 Claret Jelly, 68 Coffee Custards, 74 Cup Pudding, 82 Dutch Blancmange, 76 French Coffee Pudding, 74 Fruit and Tapioca Pudding, 75 Golden Toast, or Poor Knights, 81 Invalid Jelly, 70 Irish Moss Jelly, 80 Marple Pudding, 78 Nun's Pudding, 72 Nursery Pudding, 81 Omelet Souffle, or Sweet Omelet, 75 Orange-Flower Custards, 73 Orange Jelly, 83 Plain Pudding with Custard, 71 Porter Jelly, 80 Raspberry or Strawberry Cream, 69 Red Rice Blancmange (German), 71 Rice Snowballs with Lemon or Orange Sauce, 70 Rum or Brandy Omelet for Con- valescents, 75 Semolina Cream, 82 Semolina simply cooked, 79 Semolina Souffle\ 73 Sweets—continued : Skelmorlie Pudding, 74 Snow Pudding, 72 Sponge-Cake Pudding, 72 Steamed Figs, 81 Stewed Apples, 80 Stewed Figs, 81 Stewed Pears, 78 Stewed Normandy Pippins, 79 Strengthening or Port - Wine Jelly, 79 Tapioca Blancmange, 77 Tapioca Cream, 69 Vegetables : Batter for Fritters, 54 Broiled Tomatoes and Rice, 56 Cauliflower au Gratin, 56 Celery Fritters, 53 Haricot Beans a la Maitre d' Hotel, 54 Haricot Beans Stew (Brown), 55 Mashed Carrots and Turnips, or Carrots and Parsnips, 59 Mashed Vegetable-Marrow, 59 Onion Fritters, 54 Roast Spanish Onions, 56 Sjewed Broad Beans, 53 Stewed Cabbage, 57 Stewed Carrots, 57 Stewed Cauliflower, 58 Stewed Celery (White), 55 , Stewed Lettuce or Watercress, 58 Stewed Peas or French Beans, 57 Stewed Spanish Onions, 56 Stewed Mushrooms and Toasted Bacon, 53 Stewed Red Cabbage, 59 THE END. BILLING AND SONS, PRINT BRS, GUlLDFORIj LIBRARY